(ex ee
Ba
| o

i

y i ©
S 4

a. :

HG

« "ie a . :.

Sores

ras

¢

YN, : c

ius “f is es
¥

“Ae

te?

2 -_
i Ge =
= tS ;
me) iS
mm X!

&
eg ay
Aes

errs J
6
- a, af
Rees ee
aN $ : ~
Pre
+ ECFA S Foe
yi! > ~
-

A ae

Fae,

:

a ~

a
y Pk Q
Bysy tee, fi Oe
PRD Ae
d i

im) a had 9) wf vi va by os i ae, / Pi o :
abe REN Ream AFT ey AL OE Me BN ie

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

ier hin ab niG HN Ls
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

aes aX EAE, eS Bae

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

188 3.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
June 20, 1882.

The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate May 16, 1882, and concurred
in by the House of Representatives June 20, 1882:

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That fifteen thousand
five hundred and sixty copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year 1281 be printed; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use
of the Senate, six thousand and sixty copies for the use of the House of Representa-
tives, and seyen thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.

Attest :
FRANCIS E. SHOBER,
Acting Secretary.

ie er hh R

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year
1881.

May 16, 1882.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, March 1, 1882.
GENTLEMEN: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor
to submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year 1881.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. DAvID DAVIS,
President of the United States Senate, and
Hon. J. WARREN KEIFER,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
HI
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR
THE YEAR 1881.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
1882.

2. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
and condition of the Institution for the year 1881, with the statistics of
collections, exchanges, We.

3. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1881, and the estimates for 1882.

4, General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu-
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

IV
CONTENTS.

Page
Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the Report ..---.-..---------- ii
Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to
CCTs Ste Re a Oe SS En aes See eet Eola ialc\ sa sleiee Na loisis Sale =/ciele lil
General subjects of the Annual Report ..---.----.----- .----+- -----------+----- iv
(GOTH ETON HS) COLE UHLDKEN LENE COV US ee ah ers RO le ee acho SoS saeeracio eso Soe esase Ni
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution ...--....--.-------------------++--+-- vili
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS......---.------------- ix
Members ex-officio of the ‘‘ Establishment,” and Regents of the Institution... xv
Officers and assistants of the Institution, and of the National Museum.....--- xvi
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
4 Metre) VO Os SSYOINBONIN? J DNIGIB ELUNE COIN Ses eones pono euoe eee oSbo baOCCoDomocS GoUDoE vooe 1
TIME CUBITT 6 ot Seok eS Oene geo Seo Cbd Gna gan dactod Sar cor EDSON SRS e SUC EOO SSS il
The President’s Inaugural Reception, March 4, 1881 .................. 1
Death of General Garfield, September 19, 1881 ..........-...........- 3
New Recents of therinshiiutlOme. sp cmsee ee erie eae ee em 4
Services of Hon. Hannibal Hamlin ..-----..-.----.------------------ 5
Meetings of the Members of the ‘‘ Establishment” ...-...----.-.--------- 5
Andon he DOALGsOlsRe CCN Ss sas een eee see seeks lee wlaie) cleealeleloietlelatal= a 6
ANG sli Ste sooo Hee pa56 baocsooouD scenes cadaoemaoeoos Baeags cones 6
. DINING Ss Boo ea GE ReaD Te Aa RO OOS BE Gabe pee O TEU O EO DEO CSS SSniCsce Seer 7
Condition of; thesfund,;Jannany, (S82e5- 22s. cae aal- eee oie ee a 8
Bnilobuieigs| Bee So ohh ance donde cee A eiae obopEon peeceosoeEe | Scere ssascos 9
Siem Aivsyonone sy joven Gobinytes es eee eonesog capone cone odbscodosd as05¢ 9
Na iCMeN AM bret in WewNbhave) 2 Bee Ge So eho Gasenode be ahos coneco eases 10
ATTRA, OMNIA aOR Sa Rego Bocee noQDnOUS Bone Jogbes Sase sade 12
Ibo Oe INR IELTS Goe sociseha coecab pseede debce Jeoaeooce ne: 12
Tednpogmu sven, Moree Orb aac) Lbs OA NNO 6 Soee doe coc oa aobebeS USO. cONoOnE Coo robscor 13
AGT RRATHOIA 355 55558 Seascad doaeen ods pococtionoboacous Bucboscdsde 13
(CONKESPOMCONGe me = see as erases eee ee peeieia aes eee a lolale = eniefm mim 13
Whos abou wo wyaeeeeeeae ete sata sioa ainie osiate iets iniae ara seiaeinint= ala iol nani 14
Researches and Hxplorations -2- 2 ~~~ <2 oe <n nee an See ee == wen as 15
Ri rence 2 Seen GEOR Soe I On CBRE COS OO BUSn0 UO SCOS IE DOODOC RAIS pe oar ae 24
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ....-.---------.----- -------- 25
AL dein anoubd Solis ass Rees OA Fee Coo dena cbb oe eo sUeorecsbec 25
lee ILO Ans soe beh ees Sono ance DOC DOuEE od odo baseee scesoce 26
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ..---.----.2----.-------------- 26
PWenbleLMnVOlUMe sees eric omee see eee ee a am iSie aie els) snloiaie ainiml swim sia~ 27
Twenty-first volume .....- 2.2.2. 2.0 -- ene woos woe e eee eee 000 === 27
Check-list of Smithsonian publications ...........----...-------- 27
Bulletins'ot the National’ Museum o---2=-- 2 3-25.22. a eae
Proceedings of the National Museum ....-..-.--.----.----.+----- 27
Smibhsonlan Annuals ROpOLt ss. -s sue aces cose nlcsee caesar amine ance 23
Contentsior meporh tOn CeO ccna ae a saw cnl acces enone son)= n=l 28
VI CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY—Continued.
Astronomical announcements by telegraph......--- ---- -22- 22. -eeee- oe
JONES aa de eS SSS a on cooS Cee Sco Dny [on cues Saba socosqeesdiceas aces Sado c- fe
International exchanges.---.-.--...<-- Hedeaecosueneidssbasosc Sob eebc
Government exchanges.. .-. wee eee ene eee eens cence eee eee cee
Dishhibulonsess eee eee eee eee cee Boca HO SaNe CHa ao Sono Géae S656
Distrbunlonmohf pubhcavionetesaseee— tees eee eee eee eee
Distribution of specimens ..---.-.-.- FS HIC SEDO CORO Rone cous cborcok
IOWA, GAgaSo Saco coos ado bes pode Seoe seco! coddlocecaseted cokh cess sabetocc
AC GiblOns TOR tHe Wealan ee =e aaa eee ee eee = ine ele se ete teme see eee etna
INPUT Lue, WU QUISTORO AE Se os Soo ss ane cecces conbon cosdEs HoOgS0 OobecE HodeSS Sosoag¢
[OVERS CORE YaWs) GNIS WNIN WH Se Sh oce Sh Seco co ceo bsoeTs chose lessenose
MECC Peon a sea boeSSe posed bestoSh55000 56 Seocet osese
Special contributions -<-- 2.22222. 252. ose ke ate See error errs
IPCI OVC) ON JOPUEES MOEN os a S-5 aocscocsen once cansocoscac BPE Ee Hse Baas Sua
CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS. ..---- 25. ------ sacce Be cieeee ne
Pacitic Mail Steamship Company 222... 4-noscmee poets ee ee ee ere
Corcoran Galleryiot Antis-- cea eecersep cae sae eae eso ad Goes cagsud Gsesas babe 5
AER bare ID ey MANE Go 5665 soon e noose sens csens cosasd bec ssa cosets sobssc
Coastyand' Geodetic Survey eacs== so sac eee ooeieneece ieee le eeeeaieet=
IGNATIUS IRON SOE NRL cess scaoea soca sewsse Sone dosea5 soon gases Ssondéd snea ¢
IMIS CISL ARDDOWS) cadens sbon cosaeoeseo See csh coda pnbobeC SC oauoedoes eoc0sme sbacss
ING CROC Aye 58 S54 sd dese bo eae Censcbesho onSOoh ode abo dane coueoE coOnSe dood
International Exhibitions; (Ace. oso ecte nasi oreo etn oe seer erepeeies
Congress/of Americanists a. --4 cos 4-1 Lore fof Sialele ovate are otal tet are cEat eet
Ceosraphicali@ onoressiee a saeeere eee eee eee Secomcisceeeoeet
External relations of the Smithsonian Institution............. wEeet aeenee
UNCED STATES Bis: COMMISSION <c-cec-54==6 oes cece sce eee eae ee eee
Generaliobjecisand results se -ee> ee cease eee sweeseeenee be
Pish hatchine. sh. acc Set eabsie tee ee uies eae chee a eise meee ser eee
Mishtdistribubion'ss so 2. sekbeteaee tae eee estes Sees eee ero eee
Fisheries! Census. ets ceasemice ce cele nuse moles eee eee eee Eee eee eee
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY .--..----.----- CORIEDU DESH OSE OSE
Report on the operations of Exchanges for 1881 -....--.....-2-.---.------
I. Roreionshexchanges S22. Gens tice selec edaa cise sear sere eee ye eats
Centeéersof:Distribmbionie sa seer ee cere eee eee eee eee eeeee
Shipping Agents of the Institution ...-- aieisieeicieS edicts SIA Ines eye tees
Receipt and distribution/of “Mxchanges 5---)2252 220 2-n esse reese
AMOUM trans MiGhed abroad MSS nese see eee eee eee
2. Domestic;Exchanges 52.22.25 os. en eee ech see oats eee
Receipiamasdis trio wiblow ime Slee ey eae ee
3. Exchange of Government documents... . 22220. 22.--2-4.--426 s2c0
List of Government documents distributed in 1881 ......-.....-..

Report of Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 1881.....-.

Periods in the history, of ‘the Museum 22.205. 2520. a seee eee
Plan-of ‘organization’... 223.0 Uo S2e. ad See ea
Museum Library sc8e3 osteo sem cece eee nee ae eee
Wrorkioftthe -Breparatonsis cs soe bee ase eee eee ee
Details ofgadmimiis hie tl Omi eset pase ee ee ye eee ee ee

Departments ofthe Curators esse se eee eee eee eee
Appendix A. List of officers of the Museum for 1881 ......--..

Appendix B. Bibhography of Museum work for 1881... .-....

Appendix C. List of contributors to the Museum for 1881. -.-..

Report of the Chemist: 320068 te i wee aa a a

ae)
Pe
03
®

Go 0) 0
of @

ae)
i)
CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for the year 1881 .... .......-....---.
Condition of the fands January 1, 1662. << occ Sn Hoke ea wcas paste tsrese~ ne
Recep tsetonUhenyeale ars asse teat ea cloe coos he Saisie aioe ance eieiscmee see
PESO N TES OR GOI ORT cas aeeae cS eco Ge sae dtisce) pedis erent cceise tn to os
BISPIMOLES MOL ONO RY Gata COe sae nee) ate ee enna oe ome ene yee otepen Slem Satori
National Museum appropriations by Congress ..---....--..----..---------
Appropriations for Ethnology, and for Exchanges ...--........----:------

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING COMMISSION for 1881.-....-----
Iteport of the Architects of the National Museum building for 1881 ....---

ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS relative to the Smithsonian Institution

and National Museums: sso hac ss a ccicie cise cise = = te me wetceicecels te te seleesieiss coe =

GENERAL APPENDIX.

RECORD: OF RECENT SCINNTINIC PROGRESS ccc as socccee seeeee eneceacccce-
IMoLOGUCHON ND YiO, Mee Dainese ieee mas hetero] ener atiacciercta eens seca
ASTRONOMY s DVL iS etlOlGOD sclera sinc sae al aaeisins Sacer cites eee aeeicemece saee
Meteorolory, etc:, by Cleveland Abber= 25. --cs2osssses goes ee eee coe
Physicsabva Gul bal kerr sae setts a Seca sa ase eae eaers ete eee
Chemisiny, by Gob Barker, jo45-\s-cees) oace ene See eiee Satin cnecineedels seer
BotanyarDye wn arallowi seme suscets secs te acileadones ameinceteieceens
HOOD Ya LN COOL Gl sce sset ame eee ie eae encase ees eee eee
Anthro polosy, bys Ose Masinccke ooanss Sa. cece e ass eee pects

1 SS TCIM MONIT O WIE ONBOISS) 3A 6 ooocnsaSacus sobaas baoSue osUcueSereouosaso+
Miscellaneous papers relating to Anthropology ......---..--.-..-----...-
Abstracts from Anthropological correspondence .......--.---..----------
Tackahoejor indian bread, by.J. Howard Gores- 22 sess > oe essence so =
History of the Smithsonian system of Exchanges, by George H. Boehmer.

INDEX COVUNENVONUIMNG 52 ssslnacieee.occcciet aansbeeeeesane Selse catecemeccesGeceescs
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Revised Statutes,
title Ixxiii, section 5580, “‘ The business of the Institution shall be con-
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vice-
President, the Chief Justice of the United States, [and the Governor of
the District of Columbia,] three members of the Senate, and three mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons,
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.”

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR 1881.

Term expires.
The Vice-President :

VEE VANT PAC n VV EER EB eas soe tee eee ate rele ofentatssteiea siajetaiate\etaretatatat= Mar. 4, 1881
CHESTER A. ARTHUR (became President) ....-. .------------------ Sept. 19, 1881
DAVID -DAVAS! (p10 tem.) = scm cer aec ees ce eeee onealomle=arlemmalan sao Mar. 4, 1883

The Chief Justice, MORRISON R. WAITE.
United States Senators:

GEORGE F.. HOAR (from Feb. 21, 1881) ..-. 2. 2.2. eo e-- cnewne -0-- ---- Mar. 4, 1883

NARHANTHE 2.) Finn) romp ayal Oe GSl)) lest cceetesistelsie ets tetaatela) enters Mar. 4, 1885

SAAMI NDS MuAK ye Grom May 19 oi SS)) Nese ecletaeteiae le sc) aelale tele alalele ie Mar. 4, 1887
Members of the House of Representatives:

IDTES TER OLYIMER \oc:cciouh ela rele ears ste mates ela tee maton nletaeene een seers Dec. 28, 1881

JANES ZASIGARETEILD 122 aise cise sce eete ears eRe ele eee iaecemereeioe Dec. 28, 1881

Aosioleise JA Mov abe fsbo oe CSpot ooeee roo sno Haciacersho nebo ctacquooecabe Dec. 28, 1881
Citizens of Washington:

PATER PARKER (appoitedin 1868) ieseae nesses eee ciee ee eiee ae Dec. 19, 1885

WILLIAM DT. SHERMAN (appointed in 187)\esae ese ceeeice ee sei Mar. 25, 1885
Citizens of a State:

JOHN MACLEAN, of New Jersey (appointed in 1868)...-...-----.-..- Dec. 19, 1885

Asa GRAY, of Massachusetts (appointed in 1874) .............-.--- ~Dec. 19, 1885

HENRY Corpse, of Pennsylvania (appointed in 1874)....-.-.-...---Dec. 19, 1885

Noau Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878)....-....-.--.--- Jan. 26, 1884

Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of .
Regents.

VIIl
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 18, 1882,

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution was held this day at 10 o’clock a. m., in the Regent’s room.

Present: The Chancellor—Chief Justice Waite, Hon. Geo. F. Hoar,
Hon. N. P. Hill, Hon. 8.:B. Maxey, Hon. N. C. Deering, Hon. E. B.
Taylor, Hon. S. S. Cox, Rey. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Dr.
Asa Gray, Dr. Henry Coppée, General Wm. T. Sherman, Dr. Noah Por-
ter, and the Secretary, Prof. 8S. F. Baird.

The Chancellor made the following announcement relative to the ap-
pointment of members of the Board:

On the 21st of February, 1881, the Vice-President (Mr. WHEELER)
appointed Hon. G. F. HoAR as Regent, vice Hon. H. Hamlin, resigned.

On the 19th of May, 1881, the Vice-President (Mr. ARTHUR) ap-
pointed Hon. S. B. MAxry, of Texas, and Hon. N. P. HILu, of Colorado,
Regents, vice Hon. Rk. 8. Withers and Hon. N. Booth, whose terms had
expired.

On the 9th of January, 1882, the Speaker of the House (Mr. Keifer)
appointed as Regents tor the term of the 47th Congress, Hon. N. C.
DEERING, of Iowa, Hon. E. B. TAYLOR, of Ohio, and Hon. 8.8. Cox, of
New York.

The Chancellor called the attention of the Board to the death of Presi-
dent GARFIELD, ez officio presiding officer of the Institution, and for
many years one of its Regents.

On motion of Dr. Gray it was—

Resolved, That the Chancellor be requested to enter upon the record
an expression of the sense of the great loss which the Institution has
sustained by the death of one of its most devoted and distinguished
administrators.

In compliance with the foregoing resolution, the Chancellor presented
the following memorial notice :

General Garfield first took his seat in Congress at the end of the
year 1863. He was then but thirty-six years old.

At the beginning of his second term he was appointed a member of
this Board by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and was
present at the meeting of February 3, 1866. He continued to hold the

IX
x JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

same position until 1875, when another was appointed in his place. He
appeared again, however, in 1877, and we were never afterwards de-
prived of his counsels until he was elected President of the United
States, which made him ex officio the presiding officer of the Smithso-
nian Institution.

From the beginning his presence here was felt. He was eminently
fitted for such a trust.

He was himself a scholar, and the ‘ inerease and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men” always gave him the greatest pleasure.

At every meeting of the Board during his successive terms when he
could be present, his hame appears among the active and thoughtful
members. He manifested his appreciation of the place he filled by
always doing what it was his privilege to do, and doing it well. When
on former occasions the Board has given expression to its feelings upon
the death of a member his words of heartfelt sympathy have often been
heard. The records show that he knew and appreciated the great and
good qualities of Chief Justice Chase, and that he fully realized the
debt science owed to Agassiz. But the crowning act of all was when,
out of the fullness of his heart, at the memorial services in the hall of
the House of Representatives, he made those who heard him feel how
great the life of Professor Henry had been.

It is not for us to say he ought to have been spared longer. Few

men seemed to possess greater power for good. He died as he lived, an
honor to human nature.

The Secretary presented an exhibit of the finances of the Institution,
showing the condition of the permanent fund, the receipts and expend-
itures for the year 1881.

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the Executive Committee,
which was read.

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was—

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 1881 be ac-
cepted.

Resolved, That the income for the year 1882 be appropriated for the
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex-
pended by thé Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to
the approval of the Executive Committee.

General Sherman presented the report of the National Museum Build-
ing Commission for 1881, with the report of the architects, which were
read.

On motion of Dr. Coppée, it was—

Resolved, That the report be accepted and the Commission be dis-
charged, with the thanks of the Board for the able and satisfactory man-
ner in which it had discharged its duties.

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was—

Resolved, That, in accordance with the recommendation of the National
Museum Building Commission, the thanks of the Board of Regents of
JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XI

the Smithsonian Institution are hereby tendered to General M. C.
MEIGS, Quartermaster-General United States Army, for his highly val-
ued services as consulting engineer of the National Museum Building
Commission, in connection with the duty with which the Commission
was charged by the Board in the construction of a fire-proof building
for the United States National Museum.

Dr. Gray presented the following report of the Special Committee to
prepare the Henry Memorial Volume:

To the BOARD OF REGENTS:

GENTLEMEN: The Special Committee of the Board of Regents ap-
pointed to prepare for publication a volume of suitable notices and ad-
dresses commemorative of the late Professor Henry, have the honor to
present the following report:

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held January 17, 1879, it was—

** Resolved, That a special committee of three be appointed, of which
the Secretary of the Institution shall be one, to prepare a memorial of
Protessor Henry, to include in a separate volume of the Smithsonian
series such biographies and notices of the late Secretary of the Institution
as may be considered by them worthy of preservation and publication ;”
whereupon the Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird
as the committee. \

On the 6th of February, 1879, a concurrent resolution was adopted
by Congress to print 15,000 copies of the Memorial Exercises in honor
of Professor Henry, held in the hall of the House of Representatives on
the 16th of January, 1879, in a memorial volume, together with such
articles as may be furnished by the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, 7,000 copies of which were for the use of the House
of Representatives, 3,000 copies for the use of the Senate, and 5,000
copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.

These two proceedings thus covered substantially the same ground.

In accordance with its instructions your committee has prepared a
memorial volume, prefaced with a brief account of the proceedings in
Congress relative to a public commemoration by services in the hall of
the House of Representatives, and consisting of three parts, viz:

Part 1. The Obsequies of Joseph Henry and the proceedings con-
nected therewith.

Part 2. The Memorial Exercises and Addresses at the Capitol, on the
evening of January 16, 1879.

Part 3. A collection of proceedings by, and addresses before, some of
the principal societies in this country with which Professor Henry had
been connected.

An appendix of four pages contains an account of the proceedings in
Congress ordering the erection of a bronze statue of the distinguished
subject of our memorial.

The whole forms an octavo volume of 532 pages, which has been pub-
lished as vol. 21 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
XI JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

This work has also been published by Congress in a royal-octavo
volume, and has been widely distributed during the present year.
Respectfully submitted.
ASA GRAY,
Chairman of the Committee.

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was—

Resolved, That the report be accepted, and the thanks of the Board
tendered to the Committee for the satisfactory manner in which the duty
devolved upon them had been discharged.

General Sherman, from the Executive Committee, presented the fol-
lowing report:

To the BOARD OF REGENTS:

GENTLEMEN: The Executive Committee, having had its attention
called by the Secretary to the combustible nature and insecure condi-
tion of the eastern portion of the Smithsonian building, together with
its want of adaptability to the purposes of the Institution, has decided
to recommend that measures be taken to substitute fire-proof materials
for the present wood and plaster partitions of the apartments.

Messrs. Cluss & Schultze, architects, have presented plans for this
purpose, which, without materially changing the general architecture
of the building, will provide largely increased accommodations for the
offices and working rooms, the storage of publications, exchange depart-
ment, &e.

The Committee, therefore, after due consideration of the subject,
recommends to the Board of Regents the adoption of the following
resolution:

Resolved, That the Secretary and Executive Committee present to
Congress plans and estimates for rendering the east wing of the Smith-
sonian building fire-proof, to request an appropriation therefor, and, if
the means are furnished, to proceed with the work.

PETER PARKER.
JOHN MACLEAN.
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

The resolution was unanimously adopted.

The Secretary called attention to the approaching annual meeting of
the National Academy of Sciences, and requested instructions as to
granting the use of a hall in the new museum for its sessions and those
of similar scientific bodies.

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was—

Kesolved, That the Secretary be authorized to provide, in the building
of the National Museum, such accommodation as the National Academy
of Sciences may need at its meetings in Washington, and which may
be afforded without inconvenience to the establishment; also, that the
JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. XII

Secretary, under the sanction of the Executive Committee, may extend
similar hospitality to other organizations or meetings of cognate char-
acter and importance.

General Sherman, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented
the following report:

To the BOARD OF REGENTS:

GENTLEMEN: The Board, at its last meeting, January, 1881, antici-
pating that the statue of Professor Henry, by Mr. Story, might be re-
ceived during its recess, ordered that the site for the statue should be
selected by the Executive Committee.

The artist has informed the Secretary of the Institution that the
statue will be finished in January or February, and has requested him
to order the pedestal according to a design he has furnished himself.
This is to consist of a die of Red Beach granite, finely polished,
octagonal in shape, 4 feet diameter, 4 feet high, the whole height of
pedestal, with cap and bases of gray Quincy g ane, to be 7 feet 3 inches.

A contract has been made with the Quincy Granite Polishing Works,
at Quincy, Mass., to furnish this pedestal on the Smithsonian SNOUEEUS
within three months, for $982.

At a full meeting of the Committee on Monday, January 16, 1882,
after inspection of a plan of the Smithsonian grounds, and a visit to
each of the sites that had been suggested as appropriate for the purpose,
it was decided to make the following recommendations to the Board:

The Committee is inclined to select the triangular plot to the north-
west of the Smithsonian building, the statue to face toward the south.
Itis deemed advisable, however, to submit this suggestion, together with
a plan of the Smithsonian grounds, to the artist, Mr. Story, and to await
his opinion before making a final selection of the site.

The Committee recommends that the words “JOSEPH HENRY” be
placed in raised block letters on the front of the die, and on the reverse
“First Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1846—1878,” and noth-
ing else whatever.

In respect to the site and inscription the Committee desires that the
Board should assume the responsibility of the decision.

The Committee further recommends that the Chancellor of the Institu-
tion be requested to perform the ceremony of unveiling the statue with
appropriate remarks, and that an address be delivered on the occasion
by Hon. Hiester Clymer.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER.
JOHN MACLEAN.
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

Upon a full consideration of the subject, the Regents expressed their
approval of the site preferred by the Executive Committee, and, on
motion of Dr. Coppée, it was—
EV: JOURNAL OF THE BOARD.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee have full power as to the
site and position of the statue.

In regard to the inscription, after consideration, it was, on motion of
Dr. Maclean, unanimously—

Resolved, That the inscription on the pedestal of the statue consist
of the name ‘“ Joseph Henry.”

After consideration of the subject of the ceremonies to be observed
at the unveiling of the statue, on motion of Dr. Porter, it was—

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to take such
action in regard to the erection of the statue as it may think best.

The Secretary presented the annual report of the operations of the
Institution for the year 1881.

On motion of Dr. Coppée, it was—

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be referred to the Execu-
tive Committee, with authority to transmit it to Congress.

On motion, the Board then adjourned sine die.
Pe SMELESONIAN INSTITUTION.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE “ESTABLISHMENT.”*

(January 1, 1882.)

CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States.
DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Jasiice of the United States.
FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State.
CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Treasury.
ROBERT T.- LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

WILLIAM H. HUNT, Secretary of the Navy.

TIMOTHY O. HOWE, Postmaster-General.

SAMUEL J. KIRI WOOD, Secretary of the Interior,
BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General.

EDGAR M. MARBLE, Cominissioner of Patents.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.
(January 1, 182.)

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States,
President of the Board.

DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate.

GEORGE F. HOAR, member of the Senate of the United States.

NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States.

SAMUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States.

NATHANIEL C. DEERING, member of the House of Representatives.

EZRA B. TAYLOR, member of the House of Representatives.

SAMUEL S. COX, member of the House of Representatives.

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

HENRY COPPER, citizen of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C.

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.

Executive Commitiee of the Board of Regents.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

*The year 1881 has been an exceptional one in the number of changes oc-
curring in the ‘‘ Establishment.” The President of the United States from January
1, 1881, to March 4, was RurHERFORD B. Hayes; from March 4 to September 19,
JAMES A. GARFIELD, and from September 19 to December 31, CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
The Vice-Presidents were similarly WILLIAM A. WHEELER, CHESTER A. ARTHUR, and
Davib Davis. The members of the Cabinet in like manner were all changed during
the year.

2.0)",
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1882.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Secretary, Director of the Institution.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH, ‘Corresponding Clerk.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Director.
G. BROWN GOODE, Assistant Direcior, Curaior, Department of Art and Industry.
WM. H. DALL, Honorary Curator, Department of Conchology.
ROBERT RIDGWAY, Curator, Department of Ornithology.
CHARLES RAU, Curator, Department of Archeology.
TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator, Department of Ichthyology.
HENRY C. YARROW, Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology.
CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator, Department of Invertebrate Paleontology.
GEORGE W. HAWES, Curator, Department of Geology.
JAMES M. FLINT, Honorary Curator, Department of Materia Medica.
RICHARD RATHBUN, Curator, Departinent Marine Invertebrates.
EDW. FOREMAN, Assistant, Department of Ethnography.
PRED. W. TRUE, Curator, Department of Mammals, and Librarian.
FRED. W. TAYLOR, Chemist.
GEO. P. MERRILL, did, Department of Mineralogy.
WM. 8S. YEATES, Aid, Department of Mineralogy.

XVI
REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1881.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith a report of the
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1881.

As heretofore, in addition to matters pertaining strictly to the Smith-
sonian Institution, I give an account of the operations of the National
Museum and of the Bureau of Ethnology, which by Congress have been
placed under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, as also of
those of the United States Fish Commission, of which your secretary is
the chief officer.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
INTRODUCTORY.

The operations of the Smithsonian Institution, in their various sub-
divisions, have been conducted during the year with the usual success,
and, [ trust, to the satisfaction of all interested.

While, as will be seen, the scale and magnitude of the work accom-
plished have in many cases been greatly increased in comparison with
the work of previous years, at the same time, by a more thorough or-
ganization and the increasing efficiency of assistants by long experi-
ence, the expenditures have not been augmented. Indeed, in no
previous year of the history of the Institution have the funds shown a
better condition at the close of the calendar year.

The work of the department of exchanges has never been so eee
while the explorations and researches that have been prosecuted have
been of very great interest and importance.

The new organization of the National Museum has been successfully
established, and it is now in satisfactory working order. The Ethno-
logical Bureau, under the charge of Major Powell, has accomplished a
great deal towards the solution of interesting problems connected with
the science of anthropology, and the labors of the Fish Commission have
largely increased in extent as well as in economical importance.

The President’s Inaugural Reception, March 4, 1881.—The anticipation
of the completion of the new building of the National Museum by the 4th
8, Mis. 109-——1
2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of March, 1881, naturally suggested the idea of using it for the inaugural
reception of the incoming President, and a formal application was
made to your honorable body for the privilege. At a meeting called in
December, 1880, to consider this subject, it was decided to grant the
use of the building for the purpose in question, with the distinct pro-
viso, however, that this was not to establish a precedent for its use for
similar purposes hereafter. At the time the building was substantially
completed and unoccupied by the Institution for its intended purposes.
All that remained to fit it for the object desired by the committee of
citizens was the construction of floors in the four main halls and in the
rotunda, and the special fittings and embellishments required for the re-
ception. While the other ftoors were to be of wood, these were to be
laid in concrete, and the work was deferred until the building could be
cleared of its seaffolding and other obstructions.

Considerable dissatisfaction, however, was expressed at the idea of
using concrete for the great floor, and it was decided to refer the matter
to Congress, with a view of obtaining, if possible, an appropriation to
meet the additional cost of marble and encaustic tiles. As such an
appropriation could not be obtained in time for service in connection
with the reception, it was determined by the citizens’ committee to lay
a strong, although temporary, floor in these five rooms, so that the
entire ground level of the building could be available. One of the
seventeen rooms, containing at the time plaster casts of fishes, was
boarded up and acorrodl The remainder of the building, without any
restriction, was given up to the committee, in accordance with the
direction of the Board of Regents.

The Institution made such permanent fittings in the building as were
contemplated in the plan, namely, the introduction of electrical wires
for the purpose of working time- and watch-clocks, telephones, tele-
graphs, signals, ete.; the completion of the fitting up of the reception
and retiring rooms for gentlemen and ladies, etc.; while the citizens’
committee, on its part, in addition to the laying of the temporary floors,
erected about ten thousand bins for the reception of hats, coats, and
wraps for the visitors, and introduced some three thousand gas-burners,
supplied by pipes of suitable size.

The decorations prepared by the committee consisted of a colossal
statue of Liberty, erected in the rotunda, a series of emblematical and
allegorical shields, monograms of the President and Vice-President, and
miles of festooning suspended from the roof.

The reception, which, of course, took place on the night of the 4th
of March, was a great success, being attended by about seven thousand
persons. The occasion was extremely brilliant. Two powerful elec-
trie lights were suspended in the rotunda, and several were erected
outside, where they were supplemented by a large number of calcium
lights, placed in different parts of the grounds.

As there was no room in the building for supplying refreshments, a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

temporary edifice was erected, the entrance to which was made through
the eastern doorway.

In the anticipation of a possible failure of the receipts to meet the
outlays, the committee asked and obtained permission to give a prome-
nade concert on the following night, which was also largely attended,
and the results of the two evenings were entirely satisfactory, enough
money having been taken in to pay all expenses, and to relieve a num-
ber of persons from their responsibility who had guaranteed the nec-
essary funds for the occasion.

Numerous applications were received from various organizations,
civil and military, for the use of the room during the inauguration
week, but, in accordance with the instructions of the board, these were
refused,

Death of General Garfield._In the last report (for 1880) was men-
tioned as one of the most noteworthy events of the year the elevation
of an honored Regent of the Institution, General JAMES A. GARFIELD,
to the highest position in our National Government. Little, indeed,
could it then be anticipated that an administration soon to be inaug-
urated with more than the usual tokens of good will and general satis-
faction would, within six months, be suddenly closed under peculiarly
grievous circumstances. In the present report we have the painful
task of recording the death of the President by a murder most atro-
cious and unprovoked. Mortally wounded by the bullet of an assassin
on the 2d of July, 1881, he lingered through suffering borne with he-
roic fortitude for two and a half months, breathing his last on the 19th
of September.

Eminent for his abilities as a scholar, an orator, and a statesman,
distinguished by his dignified and gracious bearing no less than by his
prudence and solid judgment, he found time to give a large share of bis
attention to the meetings and consultations of the Regents, and he
always proved a warm friend to this Institution and an earnest chain-
pion for the advancement of its highest interests. ‘Thoroughly con-
versant with the history of the early struggle of opinion in framing the
plan for its operations, he was in full accord with its established
methods for the promotion of original research. In his eloquent trib-
ute to the memory of Professor Henry, in the Capitol of the Nation,
on the occasion of the memorial services held therein on the 6th of
January, 1879, he held this language :

“Smithson did not trammel the bequest with conditions. In
nine words he set forth its object—‘for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.’ He asked and believed that America would
interpret his wish aright, and with the liberal wisdom of science. . . .

‘‘ For ten years Congress wrestled with those nine words of Smithson
and could not handle them. Some political philosophers of that period
held that we had no constitutional authority to accept the gift at all,
4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and proposed to send it back to England. Every conceivable proposi-
tion was made. The colleges clutched at it; the libraries wanted it;
the publication societies desired to scatter it. The fortunate settlement
of the question was this: after ten years of wrangling, Congress was
wise enough to acknowledge its own ignorance, and authorized a body
of men to find some one who knew how to settle it. And these men
were wise enough to choose your great comrade to undertake the task.
Sacrificing his brilliant prospects as a discoverer, he undertook the diffi-
cult work. He drafted a paper in which he offered an interpretation of
the will of Smithson, mapped out a plan which would meet the de-
mands of science, and submitted it to the suffrage of the republic of
scientific scholars. After due deliberation it received the almost unan-
imous approval of the scientific world. With faith and sturdy perse-
verence he adhered to the plan, and steadily resisted all attempts to
overthrow it. In the thirty-two years during which he administered
the great trust, he never swerved from his first purpose: and he suc-
ceeded at last in realizing the ideas with which he set out.”

By virtue of his office as President of the United States, General
Garfield still maintained his connection with the Institution, being by
law the presiding officer of the “ Establishment,” and amid the exact-
ing occupations of his station, he evinced his continued interest in its
affairs by promptly attending a called meeting, and visiting officially
the Institution, on the 4th of last May. His loss deserves, therefore,
from us (apart from its national aspects) a special expression of pro-
found regret, and his memory a special tribute of affectionate gratitude
and respect.

New Regents of the Institution.—By a very remarkable conjuncture of
circumstances the terms of service of the entire body of Congressional
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution expired at the close of the
Forty-sixth Congress, leaving three to be appointed from the Senate
and three from the House of Representatives. The resignation, how- -
ever, of Hon. Hannibal Hamlin a short time before the fourth of
March permitted the president of the Senate to select a successor in
the person of Hon. George F. Hoar, who was thus the sole Congres-
sional Regent of the Forty-seventh Congress on its commencement,
March 4, 1881. Subsequently, however, Vice-President Arthur ap-
pointed Hon. N. P. Hill, of Colorado, and Hon. 8S. B. Maxey, of Texas,
thus completing the number of Senate members of the board.

In the law establishing the Smithsonian Institution provision was
made for the appointment of a new Senate Regent every second year,
so that at the close of each Congress there would be two members hold-
ing over. Owing to the failure on the part of the appointing power to
bear this provision in mind, as vacancies occurred Senators have been
appointed other than those whose terms were to extend for a full six-
year period. In making the recent appointments the attention of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

president of the Senate was called to this circumstance, and he so ar-
ranged his selections as to fulfill the original provision, so that of the
present Senate Regents the terms of service will be—six years for the
Hon. 8. B. Maxey, four for the Hon. N. P. Hill, and two for the Hon.
George I. Hoar; subject, of course, to renomination by the president of
the Senate if they should be re-elected to the Senate at the end of their
respective terms.

At the time of writing this report no appointment of Regents from
the House of Representatives had been made by the Speaker.

Services of Hon. H. Hamlin.—The Smithsonian Institution owes a
very great debt of gratitude to the Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, one of the
retiring Regents, for advice and assistance rendered during his twenty
years’ period of service as a member of the board, representing more
than half the entire history of the Institution. Many important meas-
ures of legislation by Congress, deeply affecting its interest and that of
the scientific enterprises in its charge, have been initiated by him and
largely consummated through his efforts. The thanks of the Institution
are also due to the other retiring members for their attention to its in-
terests.

MEETINGS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT AND OF THE REGENTS.

Meeting of the Members of the Establishment.—By the first section of
the act of Congress organizing the Institution, the President and Vice-
President of the United States, the members of the Cabinet, the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court, and the Commissioner of Patents,
“during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, and
such other persons as they may elect honorary members,” are ‘ consti-
tuted an establishment by the name of the Smithsonian Institution.”
Aud by the eighth section of the said act “ the members and honorary
members of the said Institution may hold stated and special meet-
ings for the supervision of the affairs of said Institution and the advice
and instruction of the Board of Regents, to be called in the manner
provided for in the by-laws of said Institution.” .

By the third section of the said act “the business of the said Insti-
tution shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re-
gents, by the name of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be
composed” as specified therein, two of the members of the establish-
ment (to wit, the Vice-President and the Chief Justice) being also named
as regents. The distinguished officers of the government thus desig-
nated as members of the establishment constitute in effect a board
of visitors, invested with the general oversight of affairs and the fune-
tion of suggesting to the regents sucli lines of action as to them may
seem called for; and endeavors have been made to secure the annual
attendance of this body, in compliance with the objects indicated in the
organic law. Although a certain day has been specified for the meet-
6 ; REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ing of the members, and for the presentation to their consideration
of the general condition of the Institution, it has usually been found
difiicult to secure their attendance. The pressure of their responsible
public duties and the fact that the deliberations and proceedings of ihe
board of visiting members are merely advisory have conspired to pre-
vent them from making any special efforts at meeting together for
consultation; and, especially, as from the high character and qualifica-
tions of the regents any specific action with regard to matters of admin-
istration has heretofore been considered as unnecessary, comparatively
little interest in such meetings could be felt by them. Accordingly,
although the President is always duly notified in time of the date of the
proposed meeting, he has seldom thought it necessary to take any ac-
tion thereon. In the report of the Institution for the year 1879 a state-
ment was given of the meetings of the members of the establishment
held since the organization of the Institution, showing that the whole
number during that period had amounted to but nine.

In the case of the incoming administration, however, President Gar-
field, our lamented coadjutor, called a meeting of the members of the
establishment for the 4th of May, 1881; but the only ones in attend-
ance on that day were the President of the board himself and Secretary
Lincoln, of the War Department. To them was explained the general
Cees of the affairs of the Institution, and a personal inspection was
made by them of the building and of the collections.

Meeting of the Boardof Regents.—Reference was made in the last report
to the special meeting of the board held on the 8th of December, 1880,
for the purpose of considering an application by the citizens’ commit-
tee for the use of the National Museum building on the fourth of March
following, for the purpose of the inaugural reception of the incoming
President.

The regular annual meeting of the Regents took place on the 19th of
January, 1881, and its early occurrence in the year, as usual, rendered
it possible to include an account of its proceedings in the last report, for
1880.

THE HENRY STATUE.

it will be remembered that an appropriation of $15,000 was made by
Congress on the Ist of June, 1880, for the erection in the grounds of
the Smithsonian Institution of a statue in bronze of Professor Henry,
to be executed by Mr. W. W. Story, of Rome, Italy, and that a pro-
visional contract was made with Mr. Story and approved by the Board
on the 8th of December, 1880, by which it was stipulated that the
work was to be paid for in four equal installments—the first on the
completion of the design; the second on the completion of the model
in clay; the third on the completion of the statue in bronze, and
the fourth and last on the erection of the statue in the Smithsonian
grounds. In pursuance of this contract, on the receipt of formal
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

notice from the American minister at Rome, the Hon. George P. Marsh,
that the sculptor had completed the design for the statue, the first in-
stallment of $5,750 was paid to him on the 26th of February, 1881.
On receiving the certificate of Mr. Marsh that the model in clay had
been finished, the second installment of $3,750 was paid to the sculptor
on the 8th of June, 1881. As we are informed by Mr. Story that the
bronze casting from this model will very soon be made, the third install-
ment of $3,750 will be due early in 1882. It is thought that the bronze
statue will be at once shipped, and probably received in Washington
during the month of March of this year.

In compliance with Mr. Story’s request a number of photographs
were sent to him to be used in preparing the model of this statue;
also, a cast of the face and a bust, executed by Mr. Clark Mills; and,
finally, an academic gown belonging to Dr. Maclean, of Princeton,
similar to the one used by Professor Henry when a member of tlie
faculty of Princeton College.

As the law of Congress provides that the pedestal of the statue shall
be furnished by Mr. Story, at his request estimates for executing the de-
sign by him were invited from various manufacturers in the United
States. As might have been expected, these varied considerably in
amount; but the proposals were all duly submitted to Mr. Story, who
selected the offer of the Maine Red Granite Company, which has been
assimed by the Quincy Granite Polishing Works. They offer a ped-
estal according to Mr. Story’s plan, the die to be of Red Beach gran-
ite and the remainder of Quincy gray granite ;_ the die to be polished,
the remainder fine-axed; the whole, securely boxed and delivered in
Washington, for $982.

An important point, namely, that of the precise location of the statue
in the Smithsonian grounds yet remains to be considered. I would re-
spectfully suggest that the spot be designated at as early adate as pos-
sible; also that provision be made for appropriate ceremonies con-
nected with the inauguration of the statue.

FINANCES.

General condition.—The condition of the finances of the Smithsonian
Institution at the end of the year 1881, is entirely satisfactory. All
liabilities have been paid, and a larger balance than usual remains, with
which to conmence the work of the calendar year 1882. The reason of
this surplus is due to several causes, and, among others, to the redue-
tion of the expenses of the system of exchanges, consequent upon the
appropriation by Congress, of three thousand dollars, for that purpose,
of which one-half has been collected. Several specific appropriations
have also been made by Congress to meet the share of expenses of par-
ticular departments of the Government, especially of the Engineer Bu-
reau of the War Department and of the Naval Observatory. On this
account, although the magnitude of the work is much greater than that
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

in any previous year, and the expenses correspondingly increased, yet
the entire cost to the Institution has been only $7,467.84. A consider-
able amount of printing, also, which might have been chargeable to the
Smithsonian fund, has been carried on at the expense of the printing
fund of the National Museum.

The appropriations for the year by Congress, for the National Mu-
seum have been liberal, and the results of the expenditure entirely sat-
isfactory, as I trust will be shown in considering this charge of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Virginia bonds.—At the meeting of the Board of Regents, January
19, 1881, the Executive Committee was authorized, at its discretion, to
dispose of the Virginia securities owned by the Institution and deposit
the proceeds in the Treasury of the United States as a part of the per-
manent fund.

The Executive Committee, after, the adjournment of the board, took
this subject into consideration, and, after consultation with Mr. Geo.
W. Riggs and others qualified to give an opinion on the matter, decided
that the time was opportune for the disposal of the Virginia securities,
and directed their sale accordingly. The following is a statement of the
results of this sale :

$58,700.00 par value in Virginia consolidated bonds, sold at

an average of about 79 per cent., yielded............... $46, 417 87
$29,375.07 Virginia deferred certificates, at 133 per cent.... 4,039 08
$50.13 Virginia consolidated scrip, at 152 per cent........- 58 03

50,514 98

The Executive Committee deposited this amount in the Treasury of
the United States, adding to it from the sale of the coupons of Virginia
bonds due Ist January, 1881, $985.02, so as to make the whole sum,
$51,500, to be added to the permanent Smithson fund, which was thus
increased to $703,000, and on which 6 per cent. interest will be paid
perpetually.

The fluctuations of the stock market, the anticipations of loss from
improper legislation and other causes, have thus been removed from
the anxieties of the managers of the Institution, the funds are now se-
cure in one investment, and that as enduring as the nation itself.

Condition of the fund January, 1882.

The amount received as the bequest of James Smithson,

deposited in the Treasury of the United States, in ac-

cordance with the acts of Congress of August 10, 1846,

and Nebruary 8, 186%. 2522) boar sere re $515, 169 00
tesiduary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund by act

of Congress, February 8,186 sc... 2s eee 26, 210 63
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

Addition to the fund from savings, etc., by act of Con-

Meters HOLMAN Og MOGU he eae aera aoa lash, n cies pipe =l='m © $108, 620 37
Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of

Benin Volta sO ners aa 2 tei elaine alain Mela = ww ois am mains oe 1,000 00
Addition to the fund by bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of

News York, 158002. <-. 2 235 +- BSE Er POE eR RRR Weep oA 500 00
Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia

BORG B CPS. 2 ee eee terete an aioe Sais acc des Spe apes © 51, 500 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent... ... $703, 000 00

The bequest of $1,000 from James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa. (1874),
and of $500 from Simeon Habel, of New York (1880), have been men-
tioned in previous reports.

In this connection, it is desirable again to refer to the fact that per-
sons intending to leave bequests, or to make donations for the promo-
tion of science, can do nothing promising greater security for their
money, or a more faithful administration of the trust, than to follow
the examples here cited.

The domain of science is large, its fields of research numerous, and
the methods and appliances for successful investigation exceedingly
varied. This Institution, with its present equipment, has inaugurated,
or prosecuted, or directly fostered original advances in almost every
department of physical and biological inquiry. Hence, with its exist-
ing facilities and approved experience, it is in a condition to apply most
completely and economically any material aid delegated to it, either to
purposes of general or special promotion of human knowledge, with
but little, if any, expenditure in the necessary apparatus of organiza-
tion and direction.

Any one, therefore, meditating a moderate bequest (say of a few
thousand dollars), and feeling an interest in the advancement of any
particular branch of science, could probably obtain in no other way so
unabated a devotion of the means to the specific purpose, or so large
areturn of benefit to future students, and therefore of public credit to
the grantor, as by selecting the Smithsonian Institution for his repre-
sentative and curator.

BUILDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION.

The Smithsonian Building.— During the year many important changes
have been made within the Smithsonian building, which, though involv-
ing a comparatively slight expense, have greatly improved the conven-
ience and adaptation of several apartments for the necessary work
transacted. Most of the earthen and brick floors of the basement have
been replaced by a pavement of concrete, as have also some of the por-
tions previously covered with boards, which furnished a harbor for
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

rats. These floors, together with the walls and ceilings, have beeti
whitewashed, adding greatly to the purity of the air, and increasing
materially the amount of light. Bins have been erected, in which have
been stored a large number of the stereotype plates of Smithsonian
and Fish Commission reports, and of the bulletins and proceedings of
the National Museum, rendering them more readily accessible when-
ever new issues of either of these works or of any portions thereof may
be required.

The most important alteration has been made in the arrangement of
the basement rooms of the eastern end of the building, which have
been fitted up with more special reference to the conditions required by
the increasing amount and complexity of the transportation operations
connected with the business of exchanges. These rooms number seven
in all, arranged at present in the following order : General reception
and delivery; temporary storage; unpacking; assorting; packing;
private storage, and storage of duplicates. On the first floor, or main
story of the west connecting range, in connection with the introduction
of new cases, the ceilings and walls have been painted of a brighter tint,
so as to both increase the amount of light and improve the general
effect.

At no distant time some expensive work of renovation will be re-
quired upon the ceiling of the great hall in the second story of the
main building, as in some places the plaster appears in danger of fall-
ing off and injuring the cases and specimens on exhibition below.

Complaint has occasionally been made for some years past of the in-
sufficient heating of the main building, and especially of the large up-
per story known as the ethnological hall, in very cold weather. Dur-
ing the past year the radiators have been rearranged and some addi-
tional ones introduced, so that it is hoped there will be no cause of
dissatisfaction in this respect in the future.

National Museum Building.—This building may now be considered as
completed and ready for its final occupation by the various depart-
ments which have been assigned to it. An appropriation of $26,000

yas made by Congress for covering the four halls with marble tiling
and the rotunda with encaustic tiling. The introduction of a fountain
basin, 20 feet in diameter, in the rotunda, greatly reduced the amount of
tiling to be done, and added much to the general effect. It is proposed
to have a small fountain jet in this basin, and to have various orna-
mental plants growing in it, forming a pleasing prospect in looking
across the long extent of over 300 feet from one main entrance to
another.

The only remaining unfinished floor has been covered with boards,
like the others of its class.

The ceilings of a part of the building, after they had dried, were
found to be insecure, owing to the lack of sufficient bond. As the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1i

plaster was falling in patches from time to time, and greatly endanger- .
ing life and property in the Museum, it was deemed best to adopt the
heroic treatment of taking it all down and calcimining the exposed sur-
face. This occupied the greater part of the summer, and created a
rast amount of dust and of refuse matter, to be taken away. This has
now been cleared up, and the rooms restored to their previous condi-
tion.

It has always been considered desirable to have a supplementary
ceiling or skin to the main ceiling, inclosing an air-space between the
two, for the purpose of preventing the escape of heat in winter and its
access during the summer, and an experimental trial was made by put-
ting up one section of corrugated iron. ‘This has been found to produce
a very agreeable effect, and will probably tend, so far as it goes, to
remedy the disadvantage referred to. It would be desirable, if the
money could be obtained, to complete this work over the entire build-
ing, as the hot weather of the last summer proved to be extremely try-
ing inside of the building. The introduction of some additional venti-
lators considerably relieved this difficulty.

In certain cotton mills in New England the experiment has been made
of moistening the air by means of a system of aspirators, for the
purpose of improving the facilities of cotton spinning. While accom-
plishing this object, it has been found that the reduction of tempera-
ture in hot weather amounted to 8° or 10° in some eases, while at the
same time the air was rendered very much more agreeable as well
as more wholesome at all times. An offer has been made by the pat-
entee to apply his apparatus to the National Museum ait a cost of about
$7,000, he guaranteeing that a reduction of from six to eight degrees
of temperature shall be accomplished during the hot season of the year.
This will be a question for determination in the future.

During the very cold weather of the winter of 1880, ’81, it was found
that the northeastern pavilion occupied by the ethnological and geologi-
eal bureau was insufliciently heated, this portion of the building being
most distant from the furnaces. A supplementary steam furnace was
therefore introduced into this division.

The fitting and furnishing of the photographic laboratory in the south-
eastern building has been completed, and it is now thoroughly adapted
to its purposes. The operations of the Institution require a great deal
of photographie work, which is now carried on in this building.

The fitting up of the chemical department in the southeastern divis-
ion has been completed during the year. The laboratory is now fully
equipped and able to perform any chemical work required. The chem-
ists have been constantly employed in solving problems committed to
them, and a great deal of excellent work has been performed.

A special assay laboratory has been fitted up with the necessary ap-
paratus.

Proper connections have been made in and between all the buildings
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

for. improved telephonic service, and at the present time about thirty
telephones are in use, all centering in and intercommunicating through
a switch board in the north tower of the Museum. This arrangement
is independent of the city office, and by a proper disposition of the
watchmen, is available at all hours of the day and night. Its utility
is demonstrated every day in facilitating the work of the Institution
and in reducing the number of messengers, watchmen, &ec., necessary
to carry on the various operations.

The room in which the telephone exchange is situated is also the
center or headquarters of the remaining electrical service, consisting of
a tower clock working 18 electric dials in the two buildings, a watch-
men’s clock for regulating the rounds of the watchmen and inspectors,
a burglar alarm connection with all the doors and windows of the build-
ing, call bells and signals everywhere, as well as the telephone service
itself. Indeed it is believed that in no building in the world, with the
exception, perhaps, of the Grand Opera House in Paris, is there so per-
fect and complete application of electricity to practical purposes.

A series of tunnels permeates the floors of the building in every di-
rection, and in these are stretched the various wires, some 200 in num-
ber, by means of which any electrical service can be maintained. It is
proposed, at an early day, to introduce the electric light into the pho-
tographic laboratory for use in cloudy days or at night, and also for
purposes of illumination when required.

The Armory Building.—This edifice, situated at the corner of Sixth
street and South B, has for some years been assigned by Congress for
the use of the National Museum and of the Fish Commission, and with-
out its facilities of storage, it would be difficult to carry on the work of
these two departments. It has been until recently filled with the ob-
jects presented to the United States at the International Exhibition of
1876. Most of these, however, have been transferred to the new Mu-
seum, where they have been either set up or are wailing their oppor-
tunity. The vacancy, however, has been filled by the use of the build-
ing for the temporary storage of the immense collection of mineralogy
and ethnology made by the United States Geological Survey and the
Ethnological Bureau, and also by the storage therein of the movable
property of the United States Fish Commission. It is proposed to fit
up a part of this building for fish culture and touse it for hatching
shad, salmon, and other fish on a large scale.

Laboratory of Natural History.—This building, situated at the south-
west of the Smithsonian building, and originally erected for the purpose
of facilitating the preparation of the material of the International Ex-
hibition of 1876, continues to be of great utility in the functions of the
Institution. It is used partly as a stable and carriage-house, and partly
as quarters for the practical operations of the Museum, such as the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

preparation of skeletons, the mounting of mammals and birds, the
preparation of plaster and papier-maché casts, the painting of these casts,
and for general photography. The transfer of one division of the work
of photography to its new quarters at the southeastern corner of the
new Museum building has permitted the assignment of the rooms vacated
to the photographic department of the United States Geological Sur-
vey, and they have been fitted up for the purpose of preparing the pho-
tegraphic prints of collections of western scenery, Indian life and por-
traiture, and other interesting objects. These itis proposed toinsert in
the windows of the new Museum, in which there are nearly 1,000 open:
ings available for this purpose, thus adding very greatly to the attrac-
tions of the building. A window has been fitted up experimentally in
this manner, and has attracted much attention.

In addition to the work done to the buildings themselves, greatly im-
proved drainage of the new Museum building has been effected. The
drain-pipes and sewers originally available for the purpose have been
found insufficient for the drainage of 24 acres of roof during heavy
rains, and an appropriation was made by Congress to remedy this de-
fect. New drain-pipes have accordingly been laid from the northwest
corner of the building along the west, south, and east sides, empty-
ing into a large drain and carried directly through the Smithsonian
grounds to the great sewer on North B street. Since its completion no
difficulty has been experienced in the matter referred to, and it is
thought there will be no further trouble.

An appropriation was made by Congress for the construction of a
concrete foot-way along the north side of the building, from Seventh to
Twelfth streets. This has added greatly to the facility of reaching the
building. The repaving of South B street, fronting on the grounds
of the Institution and the Museum, replacing the wornout wooden pave-
ment, has also added much to the convenience of approach.

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION.

Administration.—The executive details of current operations present
nothing of sufficient importance to be specially noticed, the organiza-
tion and personnel of previous years having continued in successful
operation, and the internal affairs of the Institution having been satis-
factorily conducted.

Correspondence.—With the increase of work in the various depart-
ments of active operations prosecuted by the Institution, there is neces-
sarily a corresponding increase in the general correspondence. It is
unnecessary to enter into any detailed description of the different
classes of correspondence which constitute the principai work in this
branch of current operations, as this has been sufliciently indicated in
previous reports. A view of its extent will appear from the general
result that the number of letters received, acted upon, filed, indexed,
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and bound amounts to somewhat more than 6,000, making about 15,000
pages. The official letters written amount to about 7,000 pages. ‘The
correspondence relating to the affairs of the National Museum has been
not much less in amount.

THE LABORATORY.

One of the provisions specially designated in the fifth section of the
act of 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, was that of a
chemical laboratory, in which scientific research could be prosecuted.
During the entire period of the history of the Institution this require-
ment*has been borne in mind, and at no time has the Institution been
without some kind of arrangements for chemical and physical investiga-
tion. The great drawback, however, has been the lack of suitable
rooms in which the work could be prosecuted without encroaching too
much on the other branches, and endangering the safety of the build-
ing.

Advantage was taken in the erection of the new Museum to provide
suitable accommodations for a chemical laboratory, and I have now the
pleasure of reporting that such an establishment is in successful opera-
tion, and is believed to be fully equal in its equipment and facilities to
any other in the United States. A large room, about thirty feet square,
has been fitted up with tables for analytical work, with conveniences
for heating, filtering, blow-pipe work, &c. Attached to this is a room
13 feet square, in which are kept the balances and more delicate glass
work. <A second adjacent room furnishes an office for the chemist in
charge. Next to this is an assay laboratory room, 30 feet square, hav-
ing a stone floor and furnished with muffles, sand baths, water-distilling
apparatus, &e.

The work done in the laboratory consists mainly in the examination
of the chemical composition of the various undetermined minerals in
the National Museum, and in the prosecution of chemical investigations
in behalf of the different departments of the government. Requests
for such service are always complhed with as far as possible. Among
such subjects of examination may be mentioned a process for preparing
wood for naval purposes, so as to protect it against decomposition and
the attacks of insects, presented to the Navy Department. At the
request of the department, Dr. Taylor, the chemist of the Institution,
was detailed for service with the board, embracing in addition Dr. J.
M. Flint, of the Navy, as chairman, and Dr. Mew, of the Army Medical
Museum, to thoroughly investigate the subject. Their report has been
made and presented to the Navy Department for its consideration.

In addition to this work specimens (most frequently of mineral sub-
Stances) are continually received by the Institution from private sources
in all parts of the country—in number averaging probably some half a
dozen a day—with the request for an analysis and report of constituents.
As these require merely a general or qualitative determination, they do
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

not consume a great part of the chemists time. The work of making
precise quantitative assays is much inore tedious and laborious, and is
undertaken only in the service of the public interests.

The chemist’s report, which is given in the appenlix, presents some
account of the arrangements made in fitting up the new laboratory in
the Museum building, as already referred to.

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

In the promotion of original research it has always been the policy of
the Institution to so employ its limited means as to effect what appeared
to be the most promising return in the increase of knowledge, with but
little consideration whether such efforts should be made independently
or in concert with other agencies. Reserving for a separate notice some
of the principal operations undertaken during the year, in co-operation
with other institutions, reference will here be made to the researches
and explorations of which the Institution has borne alone the burden
and responsibility. Of these one of the most important was that of
Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal., who, at our suggestion, visited Guad-
alupe and Cerros Islands on @he coast of Lower California, as well
as certain portions of the main land. His collections of birds, fishes,
plants, &c., have been submitted to examination, and include many in-
teresting objects. This gentleman returned home in the summer, and
started again to his chosen field of labor in December, proceeding di-
rect to La Paz, on the Gulf of Lower California, where he expected to
remain till spring, and then to visit Cape Saint Lucas, a-region made
memorable by the labors of Mr. John Xantus.

Mr. Xantus, in his explorations twenty years ago, collected numbers
of new species, the types of which have been lost by deterioration, and
it is considered especially advisable to secure fresh specimens of these
and of any additional species that may be procurable.

During the summer, Mr. James Bell, of the Land Office, stationed in
Florida, has utilized his spare moments in continuing the explorations
referred to in the report for 1880. His contributions have consisted es-
pecially in living reptiles for the modeling department of the National
Museum. Numbers of birds, Indian relies, &¢., have also been furnished
by him.

Mr. 8. T. Walker, also working in West Florida, but farther north
than Mr. Bell, has made numerous contributions ef interest from the
Indian mounds and graves, thereby greatly extending our knowledge
of the archeology of Western Florida.

Among the most interesting and important explorations of the year
in Florida is that of Mr, J. F. LaBaron, who discovered a rich deposit of
fossil bones, which are now in the hands of Professor Leidy for exami-
nation and determination. Among these itis believed there are several
new species of mammals and reptiles.

Prof. O. P. Hay, of Irvington, Ind., with the co-operation of the
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Smithsonian Institution, has continued his series of investigations into
the ichthyology of the Mississippi Valley, collecting many rare and new
species of fish, a series of which has been transmitted to the Institu-
tion.

Dr. R. Ellsworth Call, of Des Moines, has also made similar explora-
tions relating more specially to fresh water shells.

Hon. John G. Henderson, of Winchester, Ill., has continued and com-
pleted certain explorations in the mounds of that State 1t the expense
of the Smithsonian Institution. Some very valuable and interesting
objects have rewarded his search.

Mr. B. F. Norris, Superintendent of the National Yellowstone Park,
has brought to the Institution a large collection of the natural objects
of the park, among them a fumarole of a small geyser, which it is pro-
posed to utilize for the purpose of a fountain in the rotunda of the
museum.

Prof. C. H. Gilbert, who was associated with Professor Jordan in the
exploration of the ichthyology of the Pacific coast of America (as men-
tioned in the Report for 1880), remained for some time at Panama, con-
tinuing his gatherings, and then returned to his residence at Blooming-
ton, Ind. The results of his work and that of Professor Jordan have
been published from time to time in the proceedings of the National
Museum. Mr. Gilbert will probably return to Central America before
long, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, to continue and
complete his work.

Mr. H. H. Rusby, of Franklin, N. J., has completed during the year
his researches into the botany of New Mexico, in which he has been en-
gaged for several years past. The Institution was able to obtain for
him important facilities in the way of transportation of his collections,
and has secured thereby a series of his specimens.

During a recent visit to Mexico of Mr. S. B. Evans, of Ottumwa, I1.,
in the interest of archeology, the Institution was able to render him
assistance by a letter of introduction to its correspondents in that eoun-
try. Mr. Evans has brought back quite an amount of interesting in-
formation, especially relating to his discovery of a new so-called sacri-
ficial stone.

Mr. I’. A. Ober, in the course of a visit to Mexico during the past
winter, obtained some copper axes and some interesting birds.

A large amount of exploration has been prosecuted by correspondents
of the Smithsonian in the West Indies and South America; among these
may be mentioned the work of Dr. H. A. Alford Nicholls, of Dominica,
an English physician of much eminence in his profession, and distin-
guished as a naturalist, who furnished several new species of birds and
a first installment of a large collection of fishes. Dr. Nicholls proposes
to prepare a work on the ichthyology of Dominica, to be published by

the Smithsonian, and to send specimens to Washington for identifica-
tion.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

A similar arrangement to that made with Dr. Nicholls has been en-
tered into with Mr. Musgrave, of Jamaica, his object being to extend
and complete the work upon the natural history of Jamaica commenced
many years ago by Mr. Gosse. A large collection of fishes already sent
in has been under investigation by Mr. Goode and Dr. Bean. Valuable
contributions have also been received from Hon. Edward Newton, of the
colonial government of Jamaica.

Mr. L. Guesde, of Guadaloupe, has undertaken to furnish to the Insti-
tution, for publication, a series of drawings illustrating the archeology
of that island. He has accordingly transmitted a large number of de-
scriptions and figures of many curious objects, of which Professor Mason
has charge in editing them for the report. He has also furnished a num-
ber of specimens of reptiles and fishes illustrating the natural history
of the island.

Mr. Wells, of Antigua, has aided the Smithsonian Institution by send-
ing birds, fishes, and ethnological objects. Hiss labors and those of
other valued correspondents in the West Indies were secured to the
Institution by Mr. Frederick A. Ober in the course of tours of service in
the West Indies. This co-operation of resident naturalists in the West
Indies has been especially interesting to the Smithsonian Institution,
as there still remain many important problems in relation to that region.

The work of Mr. P. Figyelmesy, at Demerara, for several years has con-
tributed much to the ethnology and natural history of the colony. Similar
work has been done by Dr. C. Hering, at Surinam. No special research
has been carried on in other parts of the Old World, with the exception
of that connected with the “ Palos,” Captain Green, commander, referred
to further on.

In the report for 1879, at p. 45, mention was made of the co-operation
of the Smithsonian Institution with the Navy Department and Mr. James
Gordon Bennett in the preparation for natural history work, on board
the “Jeannette.” At the request of Mr. Bennett the Institution secured
the services of Mr. Raymond L. Newcomb, an experienced naturalist and
taxidermist, of Salem, Mass., and prepared for him a complete outfit,
principally at the expense of Mr. Bennett. When the vessel touched at
St. Michaels, in 1879, some interesting specimens had already been
gathered by Mr. Newcomb, and the expectation of interesting results
in the future was, of course, very reasonably entertained. Wenow have
the information that the steamer was crushed in the ice, and that the offi-
cers and crew betook themselves in three boats to the mainland. Infor-
mation has been received from two of these boats; one with Engineer Mel-
ville in charge, and including Mr. Newcomb in the party. Of the third
nothing has yet been heard. It is probable that any collections made
by the steamer have been lost in the wreck; but there is no doubt that
Mr. Newcomb, on his return, will be able to furnish interesting informa-
tion, either from notes preserved, or from personal recollection.

During the early part of 1881, in response to an urgent public senti-

S. Mis. 109 2

18 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY.

ment, Congress made an appropriation for the purchase of a whaling
steamer, the “Helen and Mary,” then at San Francisco, and to fit it out
for the purpose of engaging in the search for the “Jeannette.” A board
of naval officers was formed to select a,plan for search and prepare the
necessary instructions. Of this board Admiral John Rodgers was presi-
dent, and in commemoration of his services in that respect, and also
of his having been the only American naval officer who had previously
nrade an official exploration in the arctic region to be visited, the name
of the vessel was changed to that of the *‘ Rodgers,” and Lieutenant
Berry placed in command. Although extended investigations in natu-
ral and physical science were not contemplated by the board, yet, with
a proper spirit of inquiry, Lieutenant Berry asked for suggestions as to
what could be done in the line of natural history, and they were furnished
by the Smithsonian Institution with much pleasure, together with some
apparatus, alcohol, &c., necessary in connection with the capture and
preservation of specimens.

The “ Rodgers” made a complete exploration of the mysterious Wran-
gel Land, and entered into winter quarters on the shores of Siberia, ex-
pecting in the spring to resume its search for the “Jeannette.” It will,
however, be made acquainted with the fate of the “Jeannette” in time
to prevent any waste of effort, and the vessel, it is understood, will re-
turn at once to the United States. |

No report has yet been made as to any scientific results obtained by
the expedition.

For some years past Commander I’. M. Green, of the Navy, has been
engaged, under the direction of the Bureau of Navigation, in making
a determination of the longitudes of various points in the Atlantic
Ocean. and adjacent thereto, the work being mainly dcne by means of
the numerous submarine and land telegraphs. In the spring of 1881
Commander Green was ordered to continue his work in the Pacific
Ocean, and the steamer “ Palos,” then in the Chinese and Japanese
Seas, was placed in readiness for his use. Commander Green invited
the co-operation of the Smithsohian Institution in making his work
productive of results in the department of natural history as well as in
that of physical science; and Dr. F. C. Dale was detailed as a surgeon,
and a gentleman weil and favorably known for his attainments as a nat-
uralist. He took with him as an assistant Mr. P. L. Jouy, for a long
time in the employ of the National Museum, and accomplished in the
preservation of objects of natural history. The party proceeded by
land to San Francisco, and thence by steamer to Yokahama, the com-
mander there meeting the vessel and entering upon his work. Very
valuable collections were made, first in Japan, and secondly at Shanghai,
in China. The portion of the expedition that was sent to Vladivostock
also obtained some interesting collections. Through their instrumen-
tality, also, the government authorities in Tokio and the Natural His-
tory Museum at Shanghai contributed quite largely to the collections,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

with the understanding that some specified exchanges were to be re-
turned by the National Museum. Six cases of birds, mammals, alco-
holic specimens, &c., have already been received front Dr. Dale, and
several others are now on the way. It is quite probable that the results
of this expedition will rank favorably with those procured by any na-
tion from the same region.

While connected with the expedition under Commander Lull, U.S.
N., for determining the character and best route of acanal from ocean
to ocean through Nicaragua, Dr. J. F. Bransford made some interest-
ing collections in natural history, ethnology, and archeology, which
were presented by him to the Smithsonian Institution. Additional in-
formation being required in regard to this route, Dr. Bransford was
twice sent out to again review the ground and to investigate more par-
ticularly certain obscure points. In both cases he asked and obtained
suggestions from the Smithsonian Institution as to collateral researches,
and made some extremely important gatherings of spécimens for the
National Museum. The results, so far as the archeology of Nicaragua
is concerned have lately been published by the Institution in a well ilus-
trated quarto memoir.

Dr. Bransford was recently again detailed by the Navy Department
to revisit Central America, for the purpose of making some determina-
tions as to the natural conditions and commercial relations of certain im-
portant drugs largely used in medicine at the present time; and was
directed also to apply his previous experience as an archeologist to the
solution of some problems of the science, especially in Guatemala, Costa
Rica, and Honduras. He accordingly left Washington in December
last on his mission, proceeding directly to Aspinwall and Panama. His
route will take him first to Guatemala, thence across to Coban, and then
returning by the Gulf of Nicoya. One of the problems submitted to
Dr. Bransford is the discovery of the precise locality whence the material
for the many jade and jadeite ornaments, found in various parts of
America, has been derived. Such objects are among the choicest and
most highly prized of American antiquarian collections, while the mines
whence the raw material has been derived are entirely unknown. It has
been suggested that the material must have been brought in the rough
from China or Australia, although there is no good evidence to prove
such a conclusion.

Should Dr. Bransford find the locality of this mineral it will contrib-
ute towards solving one of the most interesting problems of the day.

The co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution and that of the
United States Signal Office of the War Department in prosecuting re-
searches into the physical condition of various portions of North Amer-
ica, Which has been adverted to in previous reports, continues in avery
satisfactory manner. This relationship was first established by the
transfer to the Signal Office of the entire system of meteorological re-
search initiated and for nearly a quarter of a century prosecuted by
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the Smithsonian Institution. Since then all the material and problems
connected with meteorology have been transferred to the Signal Office,
which on its part has not failed to extend its aid to the Institution in
connection with branches of science other than those constituting more
particularly its functions. Many important results, both in zodlogy and
ethnology, accomplished by the Institution inrelation to Northern, North-
eastern, and even Arctic America, have been attained in connection
with General Myer, and afterwards his successor, General William B.
Hazen. In establishing meteorological stations in different parts of
Arctic America, the Smithsonian Institution has been invited to nomi-
nate observers, who, while competent to the duties of the Signal Office,
may, if convenient, be able to make collections of objects in natural
history and ethnology. In pursuance of this co-operation, a number of
years ago Mr. Lucien M. Turner was selected and stationed first at
Saint Michael’s and then along the chain of the Aleutian Islands. Mr.
Nelson succeeded him at Saint Michael’s, and continued his work.

Under instruction of the Treasury Department, through Mr. E. W.
Clarke, chief of the Bureau of the Revenue Marine, Captain Hooper, in
command of the revenue cutter ‘ Corwin,” visited the arctic coast, both
in the interest of the revenue service and for the purpose of obtain-
ing information in regard to the “ Jeannette.” He was instructed to
take Mr. Nelson to Saint Michael’s, and give him an opportunity of
visiting Saint Lawrence Island, the special object being to allow the
collecting of the remains of the Esquimaux who to the number of sey-
eral hundred perished there by starvation. Mr. Nelson was accord-
ingly taken on board, and obtained on the island, in addition to a very
fine collection of implements, utensils, dresses, &c., a large number of
crania, filling an important deficiency in the Museum. The vessel then
proceeded to various points on the Siberian coast, and subsequently
made the first known landing on Wrangell Land, that mysterious re-
gion which had been the special object of investigation on the part of
the “ Jeannette.”

On the island a magnificent polar bear, killed by the party, was
brought back by Mr. Nelson, and is now duly exhibited in the National
Museum. '

The thanks of the Institution are due not only to the Treasury De-
partment but also to Captain Hooper fer his kind co-operation in Mr.
Nelson’s work, by rendering all possible facilities.

Mr. Lucien M. Turner, who, under orders from the signal service
of the United States Army, to make meteorological observations in
Alaska, arrived at Unalashka Island May 10, 1874, succeeded dur-
ing the five days he remained there in collecting several species of
birds. He reached Saint Michael’s, Alaska, May 25, commencing his
meteorological work June 26, and during the leisure permitted by close
attention to his official duties, continued his collections of natural his-
tory specimens from the locality, until July 9, 1877, when at his request
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

he was granted leave to return to Washington. In March, 1878, Mr.
Turner again proceeded to Alaska, under orders from the signal serv-
ice, to establish meteorological stations at Saint Paul’s Island, Attu
Island, Atkha Island, Belkovsky on the peninsula of Aliaska, and at
Nushagak on Bristol Bay. During the year he visited, through the
kindness of the Alaska Commercial Company, the stations at Kuskokvim
River, Ugashik, Tugitik, Nushagak, Port Moller, Akootan, and Saa-
nak Island, spending the winter at Dliulink, on Unalashka Island.
He passed the summer of 1879, at Atkha Island, collecting many nat-
ural history specimens: spent the winter at Unalashka Island; and in
June, 1880, went to Attu Island, remaining there till May, 1881.

During the leisure hours at his disposition he collected for the Na-
tional Museum one hundred and sixty species of birds—some of which
were for the first time ascertained to occur within our limits, thirty
species of fish, several species of mammals, nearly thirteen thousand
specimens of insects, a good series of the land and marine shells,
several thousand specimens of plants—embracing over two hundred
species; and paid especial attention to collecting a complete series
of implements and other articles of ethnological and archeological
character embracing over three thousand specimens, some of which
were for the first time obtained. Much attention was given to the
study of linguistics of the Unaleet and Malemut Orarians, Nulato, Ing-
alet, and Unalashkan Aleuts. The vocabularies are comprehensive, con-
taining not only a list of words, but much of etymologic value, stories,
history, and other valuable information concerning these people, of whom
little was previously known.

Mr. E. W. Nelson, also under orders from the signal service, as a
meteorological observer in Alaska, was authorized by co-operative ar-
rangement between that bureau and the Institution, to prosecute inves-
tigations during his intervals of official leisure, for the advancement of
scientific knowledge. He reached the Aleutian Islands in May, 1877,
and for about a month availed himself of the opportunity of making
collections in Unalashka of bird skins and of fishes. He also procured
ethnological specimens, both recent and from the ancignt village sites,
of which considerable numbers are found along the shore. Visiting Sa-
nak Island (to the eastward of Unalashka,) he made various interesting
notes on the life and habits of the sea-otter, this curious animal being
particularly abundant in this locality. Leaving in June, 1877, for Saint
Michael’s, Norton Sound, Mr. Nelson occupied his spare time for a year
in making collections of mammals, birds, fishes, and insects. The field
among the Eskimo of this region was also very rich in ethnological ma-
terial and observations. Most friendly and valuable assistance in these
researches was rendered by the agents of the Alaska Commercial Com-
pany, and by the fur traders connected with it.

During the winter of 1878~79, Mr. Nelson made a dog-sledge journey
of over a thousand miles in the country between the Lower Yukon and
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the Kuskoquin Rivers, securing over three thousand ethnological speci-

mens, of which a considerable portion consisted of articles of carved

walrus ivory. Much information was also noted regarding the topog-
raphy of the country, as well as about its people and productions.

In May and June, 1879, the mouths of the Yukon were visited to
study the habits of the proms water-fowl, and a fine series of the
skins and eggs of the emperor goose were obtained. The following
winter, from February 9th to April 3, 1880, was occupied in a reconnais-
sance of the coast region, from Saint Michael’s north to Sledge Island
near Bering’s Straits.

A large series of ethnologica was secured, besides copious notes upon
the people and their language. November 16, 1880, to January 19, 1881,
was occupied in a sledge journey into the interior, beyond the coast belt
occupied by the Eskimo, into the country of the Ingaliks or Indians. As
on the previous journeys, a large series of ethnologica and field-notes
were secured.

June 25,1881, througk the courtesy of Mr. E. W. Clarke, chief of
the Revenue Marine Bureau, the revenue steamer ‘‘ Corwin” was per-
mitted totake Mr. Nelson on board, at Saint Michael’s, to accompany her
during her cruise in the Arctic, in the course of which he visited Saint
Lawrence Island, in Bering’s Sea, where about eight hundred Eskimo
perished in a famine two winters before. J*'rom this sad mortuary nearly
one hundred crania were secured, besides many implements.

The remainder of the season was spent in cruising along the Alaskan
coast as far north as Point Barrow, and along the Siberian coast from
Plover Bay, Bering’s Sea to North Cape in the Arctic. Visiting and ex-
ploring Herald Island, and a part of Wrangell Island, the “ Corwin” re-
turned by the Miowen Islands to San Francisco, tere there October
20, 1881.

In summing up the direct results of Mr. Nelson’s work in the north,
the unbroken series of about 12,000 meteorological observations must
be mentioned first, since to obtain these was the primary object of his
residence there. In addition to these there were obtained about 9,000
ethnological specimens, 2,100 bird skins, 500 mammal skins and skulls,
400 fishes, and various other specimens, besides vocabularies of seven
or eight Eskimo dialects, with accompanying linguistic notes and a
large amount of manuscript material upon all the branches in which
collections were made. Over 100 photographs of the people and other
scenes were secured during the last year of his residence in the north.
The necessary expenses attending this work, outside those appertaining
strictly to the meteorological work, were met by an allowance from the
Institution, where the specimens are stored at present awaiting the
elaboration of the reports.

During the year 1881 three additional stations were established by
the Signal Office—one at Nushigak, on Bristol Bay, in charge of C.
L. McKay; one at Unalashka, in charge of F. L. Applegate, and

Nee?
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

the third at Sitka, in charge of Mr. John J. McLean. Some very in-
teresting archeological eqllections have already been received from
Mr. McLean, and others are expected from the other gentlemen men-
tioned. All were provided by the Smithsonian Institution with ap-
paratus and material for collecting and preserving specimens and the
means of procuring goods for making exchanges with the natives.

Of the localities mentioned Bristol Bay is the one least known to
naturalists and promising the largest returns.

In the system of international meteorological research, decided upon at
a convention held a year or two ago, it was desired that the United States
should establish a station at Point Barrow, the northernmost point of
Jontinental America and in Greenland, and both these measures were
carried out by the signal service during the past year, and a specific
appropriation was made by Congress for the purchase of a vessel at
Newfoundland, at which point the Franklin Bay party, under Lieuten-
ant Greely, embarked on board the whaling steamer “ Proteus,” a
vessel admirably adapted for its purpose, which had been previously
selected by Capt. H. C. Chester, an employé of the U. S. Fish Com-
mission. The vessel made a brief but successful voyage, landing
its party without any impediment and returning—after but a short ab-
sence, to Newfoundland. It is expected that this vessel will be sent
up during the coming summer to carry additional supplies and bring
back the reports¥and collections.

No special detail of a naturalist was made for this expedition, as
Dr. Pavy, of the Howgate expedition of 1880, was expected to join it,
and did so in Greenland.

A second international station—that at Point Barrow—was also es-
tablished by the Signal Office during the year, and was placed in charge
of Lieutenant Ray, an experienced army officer, and provided with
suitable apparatus. At the request of General Hazen, the Smithsonian
Institution nominated Professors Murdock of Madison, Wis., and
Smith of the Westfield Normal School, both experienced naturalists
and collectors, as observers. They were ordered to Washington to un-
dergo a training for physical research, especially as to more detailed
observations in meteorology, terrestrial magnetism, and astronomy.
The party proceeded from San Francisco by a schooner, chartered for
the purpose, and reached their destination without any untoward event.
It is expected that the advices of next summer will report them as com-
fortably established and in the successful prosecution of their work. A
part of the expense of this party is borne by the Coast and Geodetie
Survey.

For some years one of the most valued coadjutors of the National
Museum has been Capt. Charles Bendire, of the First Cavalry, a distin-
guished officer of the service and a competent naturalist and observer.
Reference has already been made to his services in 1880, in visiting the
interior of Oregon and Washington Territory for the purpose of solving
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

some unsettled problems in regard to the salmonide of the coast. His
observations proved entirely sufficient for the purpose of informing us
of the character of the trout of Wallowa Lake, which turns out to be not
a peculiar species of the lake, as was supposed, but an anadromous sal-
mon found along the entire coast of Washington Territory and elsewhere,
and characterized during the breeding season by a peculiar red color.

Captain Bendire having again offered his services to the Institution,
he was authorized by the War Department to visit certain regions, es-
pecially that of the valley of John Day River. With a grant of money
from the United States Geological Survey for necessary and incidental
expenses, Captain Bendire made his expedition, and sent in a large
number of packages of well-selected specimens, which will shortly be-
come the subject of investigation. Some collections of fishes and other
objects in alcohol were also gathered and forwarded by Captain Ben-
dire.

Private Charles Ruby, of the Army, while at Fort Laramie, exer-
cised his skill as a taxidermist in collecting specimens of the wild ani-
mals of the country and sending them to the Smithsonian Institution.
An arrangement was made by which he was transferred to a region
better adapted to his work, near Fort Shaw, in Montana. Here he has
continued his co-operation, and has furnished a large number of skins
of larger mammals, a number of which have been mounted and introduced
in the National Museum.

The usual co-operation of the medical branch of the Army in the
matter of exploration has also been continued, many medical officers
having forwarded collections of greater or less magnitude, among these
are included a number of contributions of living reptiles to the Institu-
tion, for the purpose of being cast in plaster and placed in the appro-
priate gallery of the Museum. 3

Mention should not be omitted of the service rendered by officers of
the Army in New Mexico and Arizona, as stated in the report of Mr.
Stevenson, of his explorations in Arizona.

PUBLICATIONS.

It may not be deemed superfluous to repeat frequently, for the infor-
mation of those who may not have ready access to previous volumes
of the annual report, that the publications made directly or indirectly
by the Institution (always regarded as the most important of its agen-
cies for the “increase and diffusion of knowledge among men”), are dis-
tributed into three series. The first series comprises the “Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge,” published in quarto size, and designed
to embrace only the discussions of original investigations, constituting
new additions to knowledge. This series now numbers twenty-three
volumes, averaging about 600 pages. The second series comprises the
“Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,” published in octavo size, and
including, in addition to other original memoirs, the bulletins and pro-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

ceedings of the National Museum, special reports on particular sub-
jects of biological or physical research, tabular compilations of classifi-
cation, natural constants, and such other miscellaneous information as
is deemed of value to the scientific worker or student. ‘This series num-
bers twenty-one volumes, averaging about 800 pages each. The third
series comprises the Annual Reports of the Regents, presented to and
published by Congress. Accompanying the report proper (giving the
statistical and financial summaries required by law) interesting records
of particular advances and discoveries, or of the progress of science
generally, have been presented in a general appendix, making the
volume much sought after.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.—Of the quarto class of pub-
lications the following memoirs have been collected and published during
the past year, as volume XXIIT of the “Contributions to Knowledge,”
forming a volume of 767 pages, illustrated by 155 wood-cuts and 16
plates:

1. Introduction, contents, &c., 16 pages.

2. Lucernariz and their allies; a memoir on the anatomy and physi-
ology of Haliclystus Auricula and other Lucernarians, with a discus-
sion of their relations to other Acalephe, to Beroids, and Polypi. By
Henry James Clark, B.8., A. B. (Published April, 1878.) 4to, 158 pp.,
4 wood-cuts and 11 plates, containing 145 figures. As stated in the
report for 1878, the lamented author died while his work was passing
through the press.

3. On the geology of Lower Louisiana and the salt deposit on Petite
Anse Island. By Eugene W. Hilgard, Ph. D., professor of chemistry
in the University of Mississippi. (Published June, 1872.) 4to, 38 pp.,
6 wood-cuts.

4. On the internal structure of the earth, considered as affecting the
phenomena of precession and nutation; supplementary to an article
under the above head in Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, vol.
XIX., No. 240, being the third of the problems of rotary motion. By
J.G. Barnard, U. S. Army. (Published August, 1877.) 4to, 20 pp.,
4 wood-cuts. This memoir is a continuation of the mathematical dis-
cussion of animportant problem of gyratory motion, published in 1872,
resulting in a modification of the conclusion formerly arrived at by the
author, and at the same time controverting the celebrated memoir of
Mr. Hopkins, which had been supposed to demonstrate that the terres-
trial gyration known as the “precession of the equinoxes” is incom-
patible with a molten or fluid interior to our globe. The question of
the internal fluidity of our earth thus appears to be now left (as for-
merly) to be settled by purely geological evidences.

5. A Classification and Synopsis of the Trochilide. By Daniel Gi-
raud Elliott, I’. R. 8. E.. (Published March, 1879.) 4to, 289 pp., 127
wood-cuts. This work comprises a full description of every known spe-
96 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

cies of humming-bird. In many cases the head, wing, and tail of the
bird are figured by wood-cuts inserted adjacent to the deseriptive text.

6. Fever. A Study in Morbid and Normal Physiology. By H.C.
Wood, A.M., M.D. (Published October, 1880.) 4to, 266 pp., 16 wood-
cuts and 5 plates, containing 17 figures. This memoir was more partic-
ularly described in the annual report for 1880.

Antiquities of Nicaragua.—Of separate memoirs published during the
year the first is Archeological Researches in Nicaragua, by J. F. Brans-
ford, M.D. (Published January 1881) 4to, 100 pp., 202 wood-cuts and
2 plates, containing 40 figures. This memoir gives an account of a large
number of interesting relics of the aboriginal inhabitants of Nicaragua,
disinterred by Dr. Bransford himself during visits to that place in 1876
andin1877. Thefine collection of ancient American burial-urns, pottery,
and other objects thus obtained, amounting to about 800 articles, has
been deposited in the National Museum. Of these not more than about
sixty were acquired by gift or purchase, the remainder having been dug
out from their original deposit by Dr. Bransford, or under his imme-
diate direction. More than a hundred of the larger urns were found to
contain human bones.

Rainfall Tables.—Another publication of the past year is, Tables and
Results of the presipitation in rain and snow in the United States and
at some stationsin adjacent parts of North America and in Central and
South America, collected by the Smithsonian Institution and discussed
under the direction of Joseph Henry and Spencer F. Baird, secretaries.
By Charles A. Schott. Second edition. (Published May, 1881.) 4to,
269 pp., 8 wood-cuts, 5 plates, and 5 maps or charts, exhibiting by
isohyetal curves the mean rain-fall for each of the four seasons and for
the year. The first edition of this work was published by the Institu-
tion in March, 1872, giving a tabulation of observations to the close of
1866. As aconsiderable amount of material has been subsequently ac-
cumulated, it was thought but just to have this additional information
incorporated in a new and thoroughly revised edition of the tables.
The work of arrangement and discussion was committed to the same
editor, Mr. Charles A. Schott, assisted by Mr. HE. H. Courtenay, and the
new tables include observations made from the beginning of 1867 to
the end of 1874, and in some eases to the end of 1876. This extension
has resulted in increasing the size of the original work by about 100
pages. It is believed that this compilation will prove a valuable con-
tribution to the study of American meteorology and climatology.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.—Two volumes of the octavo
series have been published during the year, forming volume XX and
volume X XI of the “‘ Miscellaneous Collections.”
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 24

Volume XX consists of the following parts:

1. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. I,
March, 1871, to June, 1874, 8vo., 218 pp., 3 wood-cuts.

2. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. IT,
October, 1874, to November 2, 1878, 8vo., 452 pp.,9 wood-cuts and 4
plates.

3. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. III,
November 9, 1878, to June 19, 1880, 8vo., 169 pp., 7 wood-cuts.

Volume XXI contains the following memoirs:

1. James Smithson and his Bequest. By William J. Rhees, 1880,
8vo. 76 pp., 9 plates.

2. The Scientific Writings of James Smithson. Edited by William J.
Rhees, 1879, 8vo., 166 pp., 32 wood-cuts and 1 plate.

3. A Memorial of Joseph Henry, 1880, 8vo., 532 pp.,and 1 plate. This
latter work comprises, 1st., an account of the obsequies, with funeral
sermon, &c.; 2d the memorial addresses and services at the National
Japitol, by direction of Congress; and, 3d, as an appendix, selected
proceedings of and addresses before learned societies with which Pro-
fessor Henry had been more intimately connected.

Bulletins of the National Museum.—This series of octavo publications,
illustrating the zodlogical and ethnological collections in the United
States National Museum, has been authorized, as heretofore stated, by
the Department of the Interior, and the expenses of printing a first
issue of the same are sustained by that department. The stereotype
plates are subsequently employed in making up volumes of the ‘‘ Miscel-
laneous Collections.” During the year Bulletin No. 21 has been pub-
lished, comprising a carefully prepared digest revising the “‘ Nomen-
clature of North American Birds, chiefly contained in the United States
National Museum,” by Robert Ridgway, 1881, 8vo., 94 pp.

Proceedings of the National Musewm.—In continuation of the system-
atic description of new species received by the National Museum, and
other papers of interest to the naturalist, collected under the title of
‘** Proceedings,” a volume has been published during the year, compris-
ing valuable papers by Tarleton H. Bean, S. T. Cattie, I. M. Endlich,
Samuel Garman, Charles H. Gilbert, Theodore Gill, G. Brown Goode,
O. P. Hay, Angelo Heilprin, David S. Jordan, George N. Lawrence, W.
N. Lockington, Richard Rathbun, Robert Ridgway, John A. Ryder,
Rosa Smith, 8S. I. Smith, James G. Swan, A. E. Verrill, and Charles A.
White. This completes volume IIT of Proceedings of the United States
National Museum. 1881, 8vo., 594 pp.

Check-list of Smithsonian Publications.—During the latter part of the
year a new and revised edition of the list of publications of the Institu-
tion was printed, forming No. 487 of the Miscellaneous Collections. (De-
cember, 1881), 8vo., 22 pp.
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Smithsonian Annual Report.—The official report of the Board of Re.
gents for the year 1880 was presented to Congress January 19, 1881,
and an edition of 15,560 copies was ordered to be printed. This in-
cluded the usual reports of the Secretary, of the Executive Committee,
of the Board of Regents, and of the National Museum Building Com-
mission, together with the Journal of proceedings of the Board of Re-
gents. The “General Appendix” to the report, made up subsequently,
comprised, first, a record of recent scientific progress, which is regarded
as a valuable feature of the annual, and one desirable to be perma-
nently maintained. The various subjects were assigned to different col-
laborators as follows: Introduction, by the Secretary ; recent progress in
Astronomy, by Prof. E. 8S. Holden; in Geology and Mineralogy, by
Dr. George W. Hawes; in Physics and Chemistry, by Prof. George F.
Barker; in Botany, by Prof. William G. Farlow; in Zodlogy, by Dr. Theo-
dore Gill; in Anthropology, by Prof. Otis T. Mason. The remainder of
the General Appendix was occupied, secondly, with a bibliography of
Anthropology, by Prof. O. T. Mason; abstracts of Anthropological cor-
respondence of the Institution ; a report on the Luray cavern; a dis-
cussion of Professor Snell’s barometric observations, by Prof. F. H.
Loud; an account of investigations relative to illuminating materials,
by Joseph Henry (reprinted from the United States Light-House Report
for 1875) ; a synopsis of the scientific writings 6f Sir William Herschel,
by Prof. Edward 8. Holden and Charles S. Hastings; and, lastly, re-
ports giving an account of the principal astronomical observatories of
the world.

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH.

An important function of the Institution, initiated by my predecessor
in 1873, and since carried ont with great regularity, as exhibited in the
annual reports for nearly a decade past, comprises the transatlantic in-
terchange by telegraph of important astronomical discoveries requiring
immediate attention from numerous or widely separated observers.
These astronomical announcements through the Smithsonian Institu-
tion have been of great value in the promotion of science, and have
been highly appreciated.

The announcements of astronomical discoveries made during the past
year are as follows:

List of minor planets discovered in 1881.

Bes Itsrnic tee | al “ae Discover- spies ere day
No. | Name. Date. Discoverers. Ae NO: Observatory.
Dee iscinn .ttbnraae | Feb: 23.) Palisas 2 2:25. 29th. Pola.

29

It is noteworthy that last year is the first one since 1859 in which
more than one planetoid has not been discovered. The annual numbers
recorded during the last twenty-five years are as follows:

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

HSGV( sees 255 OF L862 2as=—e= Del L664 [ose == AM GT 2a eat Dy | MST se sey Ts
ikesyeS eeece Sal pLeooe== = Dl Wile te eeecae 12 | 1873... (| abs fie) Baa one 12
Theol! ee hee 1 ied belo Mee 3) |) lteter 2 | 1874.... Oi) ke ee eas AU
LE60Res a3. DulbMSGaseieconte SMe Oe se a1! 30) 187. <= 7) LESBO 2 2Sa3 18
ifs) Se SsSGenc LOS S602 =cc oes (So akevAL SSE Ae ay Mere ses coe 12 BBE, sees ace hcl

30 19 26 42 52

It thus appears that the quinquennial average of discoveries, so far
from decreasing, has for the past twenty years steadily and notably in-
creased, giving mo indication, therefore, of an immediate or early ex-
haustion of material. This is due, partly, to the closer scrutiny given
to this field by astronomers, partly to the increased number of ob-
servers, and partly to improvements in their instruments and in their
systematic methods of observation.

This remarkable group of planetoidal or meteoroidal bodies forms a
tolerably wide zone or ring between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter,
separating the four interior and smaller planets (including our earth)
from the four exterior and much larger planets. Ithas been estimated
by Leverrier and others, from the motion of Mars (the amount of dis-
placement of the apsides, due to the amount of counteraction of the
solar gravitation by the external attraction), that the entire mass of
this ring of meteors cannot much exceed a fourth of that of our earth.
In no great time, therefore, the discovery of new members of this group
must become more and more rare. The smallest thus far observed do
not probably exceed 20 or 30 miles in diameter, and the number which
will remain forever unseen, by even the highest powers of the telescope,
may very many times surpass the number ever made visible.

List of comets observed in 1881.

No. Name. Date. Discoverer. Observatory.
ie piaye sicometses|psosc sc albu lee custo cei.
Ul fl | See oeecemaoomase May 1 | Swift --..-...--..| Rochester, N. Y.
WE Beeeess S2-2eciase May 21 | Tebbutt..:.2.--- Windsor, New South Wales.
DVi }ceees =- ss. 2 -525| July: 16 || Scheberle..:.-.-| Ann Arbor; Mich.
V | Encke’s comet...) Aug. 27 | Common .-..----- Ealing, England.
WWillimeererccae ssc colons Sept. 20 | E. E. Bernard --.| Nashville, Tenn.
Wal ates aeniees vac ss Oets }- 45) Denning os - 2 -75- Bristol, England.
VUE | pees soc e os se s5)s-| NOMS olGL |) Switti 2225... 2 Rochester, N. Y.

The generous co-operation of the large telegraph companies, embrac-
ing those both of the transatlantic cable and of the widely ramified
land lines, cannot be too often or too warmly acknowledged. The lib-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

eral spirit with which these scientific messages are dispatched across
the world, without charge to the Institution, isa most gratifying tribute
of sympathy and confidence on the one hand, and a conspicuous illus-
tration of enlightened appreciation of the character of information thus
diffused on the other.

The European centers to which our telegrams of American discoveries
are gratuitously distributed are the Nationai Observatories of Green-
wich in England, Paris in France, Berlin in Germany, Vienna in Aus-
tria, and Pulkovain Russia. The telegraphic announcements of foreign
discoveries are gratuitously distributed to nineteen of the leading es-
tablishments in the United States, as wellas to some of the daily papers
and to the Associated Press generally.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

No one of the various operations carried on by the Smithsonian In-
stitution is of more importance in the advancement of science than that
of the international exchange of publications between the governments
and their bureaus, departments, the learned institutions, and scientific
men of the two worlds. Notwithstanding the increase of the govern-
mental international system, in which quite a number of nations have
joined, the work of the Smithsonian Institution still continues to be of
pre-eminent magnitude and importance. Originally initiated for the
purpose of distributing the publications of the Smithsonian Institution
to libraries, societies, aud learned men abroad, and to receive returns
for the same, it was gradually extended so as to take within its sphere
all the establishmentsinthe New World requiring a similarservice. In-
deed, by its system of agencies in various portions of the world to which
packages were sent for transmission to destination, and where returns
were gathered and forwarded to Washington, it maintained an arrange-
ment of its own, entirely independent of any other organization.

If there has been any diminution of efficiency in the system of official
exchanges during the last few years since the establishment of inter-
national bureaus by various national governments, owing to the absence
of direct responsibility to the Institution which its service of paid agents
secures, it is hoped and believed that as the routine becomes better un-
derstood and appreciated all requirements will soon be satisfactorily
met.

Within a year or two by the reorganization of the service and an in-
crease in its force, the department of exchanges of the Institution, now
in charge of Mr. George H. Boehmer, has become very efficient, and
to his report, herewith appended, I refer for more minute details.

It may be proper to remark that while the number of foreign ad-
dresses in communication with the Smithsonian Institution in 1850
amounted to 173, at the close of 1881 it forms an aggregate of 2,908,
divided as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, ol

Africa, 36. .

America, exclusive of the United States, 135,

Asia, 68.

Australasia, 82.

Kurope, 2,578.

Polynesia, &ce., 9.

A detailed list of the parties in the United States sending and receiv-
ing the packages embraced in these transmissions will also be found
in the Appendix.

The expenses of the service for the year, in consequence of an ap-
propriation by Congress, have been reduced from $9,996.05 in 1880, to
$7,467.84 in 1881.

It is very desirable that the entire cost of this system of exchange,
so far as the actual expenses are concerned, should be defrayed by the
government. So far as establishments other than the Smithsonian In-
stitution are concerned, there is every reason why the government
should pay the cost, and the propriety is still greater in reference to the
exchanges of the Institution itself, since all the returns obtained are
immediately transferred to the Library of Congress, of which they con-
stitute a very important part.

The acquisition of many works, of great scientific and economical
value, unpurchasable by money, is accomplished, first, by expenditures
of the Institution for printing its publications, and then by their trans-
mission through the system of exchange to various parts of the world,
and the receipt of returns for the same.

The cost of the system of Smithsonian exchanges would be some
thousands of dollars greater than is actually the case but for the con-
tinued liberality of the various steamship lines between the United
States and other parts of the world. A list of these lines and of the
general agencies through which transmissions are made is given in the
Appendix.

Among the important additions made to this list during the past year,
special mention should be made of the Red Star Line, of which Messrs.
Peter Wright & Sons, of Philadelphia, are the agents. This line has
carried a large number of packages between New York and Antwerp
without charge. The Hamburg American Packet Company has also
extended its privileges so as to cover a much larger range of material
than heretofore.

For some years past there have been serious difficulties in the trans-
mission of the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution to Cuba, owing
to onerous custom-house regulations, and an arrangement was finally
made through the minister of Spain, Senor Don Felipe Mendez de Vigo,
by which all our packages were to be addressed to the governor-general
of Cuba and transferred by him, with the accompanying invoice, to
Prof. Felipe Poey, of the University of Havana, by whom they are dis-
tributed,
474 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The total number of boxes required to contain the transmissions for
the year amounted to 407, of a gross bulk of more than 2,000 cubic feet,
and a gross weight of over 100,000 pounds.

Government Hxchanges.—In addition to the regular routine work of
the exchange referred to above, the Institution has for several years
past prosecuted, under Congressional enactment, an exchange of the
publications of the United States Government for those of other nations,
the transactions being exclusively between the Government of the United
States and those of other countries. For this purpose fifty sets of all
publications made at the expense of the United States, whether by or-
der of Congress or by a department, are turned over to the Library of
Congress for transmission to the Smithsonian Institution, and these are
distributed to such nations as give corresponding publications in return.
As the amount of material printed by the United States amounts to
from 12 to 16 cubic feet every year, the aggregate transmissions are
very important, and year by year the returns come in in an increasing
proportion. The whole transaction is intended for the benefit of the
Library of Congress, so as to secure the official publications of other
nations, most of which can only be obtained by this system of exchange.

There is a curious feature connected with this distribution of public
documents, namely, with the exception of two sets which are reserved
by the Library of Congress for its use, there is no provision by which
any American library can obtain anything like so complete a series of
the official publications as are sent by the Institution to foreign govern-
ments connected with the Exchange. It seems very desirable that in-
stead of reserving fifty sets only of each government publication, there
should be at least one set reserved for the leading library of each State,
or, at any rate, for that of the State and Territorial legislatures.

Reference has been made in previous reports to the establishment of
a governmental system of international exchanges corresponding to
that of the Smithsonian Institution. No important addition to the
number of governments mentioned as concerned, has been made during
the year 1881, although its extension to all the principal countries is
much to be desired.

While the Smithsonian Institution has been named as the official
agent in this business, its labors would be greatly facilitated if it could
communicate directly with corresponding bureaus of other nations, the
work, too, would be prosecuted much more satisfactorily. The govern-
ments of Russia and Italy, although not giving a formal adhesion to
the system of the Smithsonian Institution, yet in the year 1881 estab-
lished bureaus for the practical management of international exchange.

By the exchange convention of Paris in 1875, it was provided that
each party sending should deliver its transmissions free of expense, in
the office of the other; but the stipulation, so far as the transoceanic
relationships of the United States were concerned, was extremely un-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

satisfactory, on account of the great number of changes required be-
tween Washington and the foreign capitals. The Smithsonian Institu-
tion, therefore, endeavored, so far as its own business was concerned, to
secure a modification of the proposition. It isa very simple thing for
charges from one point to follow the goods and be paid for in a lump
on receipt, while it is extremely difficult to know beforehand, or to
prepay expenses not yet estimated or assessed. The modification pro-
posed by the Smithsonian Institution was that each party should select
its most convenient seaport for receipt and delivery and pay expenses
to that point, or even to the port designated by the other ; the remaining
charges to be met by the recipient. The acceptance of this modifica-
tion by the governments of Russia and Italy was delayed, but ultimately
the matter was settled by making Hamburg the point of exchange
with Russia, and New York with Italy, the Institution paying only the
expenses to and from these two points.

For some years the exchanges of its publications made by the De-
partment of Agriculture with foreign institutions have been inter-
mitted, and a very important source of increase of its library thereby
interrupted. Commissioner Loring, since his accession to the charge
of the department, has expressed his desire to resume the exchange,
and has made arrangements to carry it on upon a suitable scale.

Reference has been made to the action of Congress in making an ap-
propriation for meeting, in part at least, the expense to the Institution
of the system of international exchanges. <A letter was addressed, on
the 23d of October, 1880, to Hon. William M. Evarts, Secretary of State,
calling attention to the cost to the Institution of continuing a work for
the United States Government not properly chargeable to the Smithson
fund. Ina letter, of which a copy is given in the appendix, Mr. Evarts
expressed his appreciation of the plea, and announced his intention of
asking Congress for relief. An estimate of $7,000 was sent in by him
-for this purpose, but the sum of $3,000 only was granted. This, how-
ever, as stated, has been a very material help, and it is hoped that a
larger allowance will be made for the present fiscal year, an estimate
for which has been presented.

As this work is prosecuted for the benefit of the country at large, and
especially for that uf the various bureaus of the United States Govern-
ment, there is no reason why the actual expense should be a charge
upon the income of the Smithsonian Institution, which has so many
other calls upon it. Whatever sum can be saved in one direction can
always be usefully applied in another in the interest of science and of
general education.

A history of the exchange system since its origin has been prepared
by Mr. G. H. Boehmer, and is presented in the appendix to this report,
together with a portion of the official correspondence between this In-
stitution and the department relative to the project of international ex-
change initiated by the Geographical Congress held in Paris in 1875,

S. Mis. 109 ——3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and since carried out by the concurrence of most of the European

nations.
DISTRIBUTION.

Closely connected with the department of exchanges is that of the
distribution by the Smithsonian Institution of books and specimens on
its own account and that of the National Museum. As has already been
shown, the entire system of International Exchanges of the Institution
began in the desire to find a convenient method of distributing its own
publications to libraries and.societies and a provision for the receipt of
returus. On getting the machinery of distribution fairly at work it was
found sufficiently comprehensive to serve other establishments in the
United States, and little by little it grew to its present magnitude.

Distribution of Books.—The distribution by the Institution on its own
part consists mainly of copies of the Annual Reports of the Regents of
the Institution to Congress, and the various publications included in the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge and the Miscellaneous Collee-
tions, both in their separate form and as aggregated in volumes. More
recently the Proceedings and Bulletins of the National Museum have
been added to the number of volumes to be sent out. The distribution
through the United States, however, by a law of Congress is now made
under a frank of the Smithsonian Institution, which also covers the Do-
minion of Canada. That to foreign countries is made either by mail or
by the various agencies of transportation.

As in previous years, the oceanic shipments are made almost entirely
without expense, as explained more fully in another part of the report.

The Pennsylvania Railroad and its dependencies and the Baltimore
and Ohio Road have continued to make important reductions in their
rates of charges to Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York.

Distribution of Specimens.—The distribution of specimens, either in
the way of exchanges for other articles or as donations to the museums
of colleges, academies, &c., has continued during the year on a very
large scale. The details of this will be found under the head of the op-

erations of the Museum.
LIBRARY.

As in most other branches of Smithsonian operations, the accessions
to the library show a continued increase, the numbers of books and
other publications received during the year as compared with those of
the three preceding years being indicated in the accompanying table.
This does not include the special contributions to the working library
of the National Museum, which have not been fully catalogued, but
will be reported upon hereafter.

As is well known to the Board, the books received by the Smithsonian
Institution, either by way of exchange or donation, are transferred to
the Library of Congress, in which they constitute a very conspicuous
feature, representing as they do an extensive series of transactions and
memoirs of societies and scientific and technical publications.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

Statement of the books, maps, and charts received by the Smithsonian Institution and trans-
ferred to the Library of Congress.

Tis Sie ease 762 | 3,914

Quarto or larger. Octavo or smaller.
F | | Total.
| Vols. | Parts. | Pamph’s. | Vols. | Parts. | Pamph’s. | Charts.
pms Ee Messe ea fe | | :
ils y(s peepee | 403 | 2, 620 | 463 860 | 2,356 | 1, 953 | 74 8,729
UBIOS abe 440 | 2,612 | 591 | 1,509 | 3,240 | 1, 628 | 183 10, 203
LEBOM: feese 337 | 2,603 | 477 806 | 2,577 | 1,618 | 152 8,570
| 468 | 1,105 | 3,591 1, 931

| - 188] 11,959
|

As part of the statistical work of the United States Census, a com-
plete file of all the newspapers published in the United States during
the census year of 1880 was collected, the total amounting to some five
thousand titles. The authorities of the Census Department offered
these to the Smithsonian Institution if it could find proper accommoda-
tions for the same. As, however, the library of the Institution has
long since been merged in that of Congress, and as the expense of bind-
ing alone would have been extremely onerous, the suggestion was made
that the whole be offered to Mr. Spofford.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The organization of the National Museum may now be regarded as
practically completed, and the arrangement of a large portion of its
valuable material for instructive display at least provisionally effeeted.
A very full report of the scientific objects aimed at and of results so
far accomplished in this important branch of the public service has been
prepared by Mr. G. Brown Goode, the assistant director in charge, and
will be found in the appendix.

Reference was made in the reports for 1876 and 1877 to the enormous
amount of material presented to the United States by exhibitors at the
_ Philadelphia Centennial, and to the number of car-loads transferred to
Washington. Since the completion of the National Museum the greater
portion of these specimens have been removed from the Armory and
subjected to a provisional arrangement, precedent to their final assign-
ment to the cases.

The minerals and ores were unpacked under the direction of Dr.
Hawes, in charge, and the reserve series picked out and held in readi-
ness tor further action. The duplicates have all been properly assorted,
and to some extent distributed. This work however, cannot be satis-
factorily carried out until the coming year.

The purely metallurgical specimens have also been classified ; but are
still, for the most part, in their boxes, awaiting the appointment of a
~ specialist for that department.

Increase of the Museum.—It has been reported to the board that at
the close of the International Exhibition a company was organized in
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Philadelphia for the purpose of continuing the display for an indefinite
period. The great main building, covering 18 acres, was purchased
at a very low price, and from among the original:exhibits many were
either purchased by the company or presented, or deposited by the pro-
prietors. Numerous additions were also made, in certain specified di-
rections, the object being to have a display of industries, for commer-
cial purposes, and also for the general education and instruction of the
community.

The anticipations of the projectors of this exhibition were not realized,
the distance of the building from the city and the length of time nec-
essary to visit it, and the satiety of the public in regard to such dis-
plays caused the number of visitors to fall far below what was necessary
to meet the expenses, and after struggling vainly against the inevitable,
the exhibition was given up and the building sold. The owners of
property therein were notified to remove it at the earliest possible mo-
ment.

As there was much in this exhibition that fell entirely within the
plan of the industrial department of the National Museum, Mr. Thomas
Donaldson was requested to act as an agent for soliciting contributions,
which he did with such success that, by far the greater part of what
was really valuable and important, was obtained by him as a free gift
from the proprietors. Several months were spent, with a proper corps
of assistants, in taking down and packing the exhibits for transporta-
tion, and the entire mass is now stored in a temporary warehouse, await-
ing’an appropriation by Congress for transfer and installation.

A detailed list of these donations will be appended to this report.
Their money value is estimated at not less than $150,000. In addition
to the collections actually obtained, many others are promised, and are
now, for the most part, in process of preparation.

Medicinal Collections.—As indicated in previous reports, a full collee-
tion of the materia medica of the world has been projected as one of
the exhibits of the National Museum. In addition to the large amount
of material of this character obtained at the International Exhibition
of 1876, the Institution received the promise of aid by Messrs Schief-
felin & Co., of New York, a very prominent firm, connected with the
drug trade. The firm sent a representative to the International Phar-
maceutical Convention, held in London during the past summer, with
special reference to obtaining certain obscure and unusual substances
that could not otherwise be secured. Many hundreds of varieties of
great rarity resulted from this mission. As especially related to the
medical department of the Navy, Surgeon-General Wales detailed Dr.
J. M. Flint, assistant surgeon, U. S. N., to take charge of this division
of the Museum, and he is now engaged in cataloguing and labeling the
specimens as they are received.

In order to obtain the necessary information on this subject, the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

Smithsonan Insititution, through the courtesy of the State Department,
has issued circulars to the foreign representatives of the United States,
asking first, whether there is a national pharmacopeia in the country
to which accredited, and second, requesting that copies if published be
sent to the Institution. Responses have very generally been received,
and a very complete collection of pharmacopeeias is at present in Doctor
Flint’s possession, from which to prepare the list referred to.

- Special Contributions.—The explorations of the United States Fish
Commission have added greatly to the material at the command of the
Smithsonian Institution, both for research and distribution. The many
new and rare species of fishes collected by the commission constitute
a very important advance in our knowledge of the deep seas. Besides
enriching the National Museum, the large mass of duplicate specimens
will enable the Institution to continue its distribution of labeled suites
of species to a large number of educational establishments in the
country.

Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havana, furnishes a supply of living reptiles for
the use of the modelers, and also rare fishes, types of many new species
described by himself.

Mr. Livingston Stone has furnished large important collections of
fossils as well as of recent animals, from the United States Fish-hatch-
ery, on the McCloud River, California, a region of very great ethnolog-
ical and zodlogical interest.

Hon. John M. Langston, United States minister to Hayti, has con-
_ tributed some valuable collections of the corals of the islards, quite a
number of which were new to the collection.

Mr. C. C. Leslie, an extensive fish dealer of Charleston, 8. C., has con-
tinued his collections in the line of ichthyology from the shores of his
State.

Mr. Silas Stearns, a fish dealer in Pensacola, has also added mate-
rially to the very large number of fishes of the Gulf of Mexico, previ-
ously presented by him. To Mr. Stearns we are indebted for quite a
number of entirely new species, which have been or will be described in
the procedings of the National Museum.

In addition to the collections of fishes and marine invertebrates by
the main parties of the United States Fish Commission, Col. M. Me-
Donald, in charge of the station for hatching Spanish mackerel at
Cherrystone, in Chesapeake Bay, made a large collection, embracing
many rarities.

In the earlier volumes of the reports of the Institution frequent men-
tion is made of contributions to the National Museum by Mr. Rh. Mac-
Farlane, of the Hudson Bay service, while stationed at Fort Yueon,
Fort Anderson, and elsewhere; and even to the present time the early
collections of Mr. MacFarlane stand pre-eminent. To him is due more
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

than to any single person, the knowledge which we have of the natu-
ral history and ethnology of the arctic circle of North America.

Since Mr. MacFarlane’s change of station to an interior post he has
been prevented from making many additions to his series; but during
the year 1881 we were gratified at the receipt of a number of skins of
rare mammals, &e., contributions by him, and showing the persistency
of his interest in the National Museum.

Dr. James Moran, of the Medical Department of the Army, who fur-
nished collections in previous years, has also supplied several rare forms
of pottery and other aboriginal remains from Arizona.

Miss Rosa Smith has continued her contributions of fishes from San
Diego, Cal. supplementing to some extent the work prosecuted there
in 1880 by Prof. D. 8S. Jordan, as referred to in the preceding portion
of this report.

Mr. James G. Swan, of Port Townsend, Wash. Terr., whose contri-
butions to the ethnology and general natural history of Puget Sound,
have been noticed in almost every report for twenty years, has not inter-
mitted his exertions during 1881. Numerous collections of objects of
Indian manufacture, of fishes, &c., have been received from him with a
large amount of special information on the fisheries of Puget Sound.

Mr. José Zeledon, of San José, Costa Rica, to whose services as a
skilled ornithologist and collector reference has frequently been made,
has added to his many contributions by supplying some extremely rare
and possibly new species of birds of Costa Rica.

ETHNOLOGICAL BUREAU.

The Ethnological Bureau, established by Congress for prosecuting
researches among the Indian tribes of North America, with the view of
securing to ethnological science available records of races destined
ultimately to disappear, is continuing its interesting and important work,
under the able directorship of Major Powell, with marked and gratify-
ing success. The most important of these operations during the past
year consists of the work of Mr. F. H. Cushing, and that of Mr. James
Stevenson. Mr. Cushing has been a resident of the village of Zuni for
several years past, carrying his researches into the domestic habits, re-
ligious rites and ceremonies, and other features of the condition of the
Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, and he has obtained a vast body of
original information upon these subjects, which will, in time, be pub-
lished. He has made very large collections in ethnology, those ob-
tained in the caves. of New Mexico being especially noteworthy. A
peculiarity in the religious observances of the Pueblo Indians consists
in their hiding away a memento of important ceremonials, in caves ac-
cessible with great difficulty, and only visited on such occasions. The
accumulations in these caves date back many years, and the specimens
gathered, illustrating the changes in methods and chronological peculi-
arities, are very interesting.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

Similar collections have been received through Mr. Metealfe from a
cave near Silver City, N. Mex., showing a similarity of treatment of
the subject over a wide extent of the country.

At the last session of Congress the sum of $5,000 was especially re-
served, by enactment, from the appropriation for ethnological researches
to be expended in continuing investigations into aboriginal mounds, and
several gentlemen were assigned to this business. The most important
contributions under this arrangement have been made by Dr. Edward
Palmer, who has spent several months in Tennessee, and subsequently
in Arkansas. A large number of boxes have been received from him,
containing some extremely rare and even unique objects.

Dr. W. De Hass was assigned to a certain region in West Virginia
and adjacent portions of Eastern Ohio. This work has been prosecuted
during the summer, but as yet no collections have been received.

Mr. W. J. Taylor, of Nashville, Tenn., has furnished a number of speci-
mens Similar in character to those of Mr. Palmer.

Mr. 8. T. Walker has also procured some mound relies from Florida.
His collections are all very interesting, as showing some peculiarities in
the contents of prehistoric mounds anc graves in that State as compared
with those of Tennessee and Arkansas.

Ethnological and archeological explorations, heretofore conducted by
the Bureau of Ethnology in the Northwest, under the direction of Pro-
fessor Powell, were continued over contiguous areas to those examined
the two previous years. The vast quantities of valuable material, both
ancient and modern, possessed by the Pueblo tribes made it important
that the work of collecting should be carried on extensively, in order to
secure as much as possible, before they were carried away by visitors
and speculators, who are now, since the railroads make that region ac-
cessible, visiting that country frequently. A party was equipped and
placed in charge of Mr. James Stevenson to prosecute the work among
the Indians of the Province of Tusegan, known as the Seven Moquis,
and also to secure an additional collection from the Pueblos of Zuni.
The party proceeded to each of these localities, from which large and
varied collections were made, consisting of everything pertaining to
the religious and domestic life of these tribes. The collections from Mo-
qui are unique and valuable, consisting of alarge number of ancient
earthenware vessels and stone implements. Among the formerare some
very handsome vases elaborately decorated with unknown designs, and
of new forms in structure from any hitherto found. The tribes from
whom they were obtained had no knowledge of their origin, but they
were in all probability made by the people who resided in a village of
considerable dimensions, about twelve miles east of Moqui, called by
the Navajos Tally-hogan or singing houses. An examination of this
village, which is now in ruins, revealed immense quantities of fragments
of pottery, on all of which were designs and figures, similar to those on
the ancient vessels just referred to, which were obtained from the Mo-
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

quis. The amount of material secured from Moqui was quite large,
aggregating about 12,000 pounds. A mapof great accuracy was made
of the seven villages, and will accompany the report of the Bureau to
show the relative positions of the villages of this province.

The collections from Zui were large and important, amounting in
weight to 21,000 pounds.

Mr. Mendeleff, with several assistants, completed a survey of Zuni for
the purpose of constructing a model of the village on a scale of five feet
to the inch. This model was completed during the present winter, and
is now on exhibition in the National Museum. The area covered by
Zuni is 1,200 by 600 feet, not including the goat and sheep corrals and
gardens, which occupy a much larger area. The model, however, will
illustrate all those features. The preparation of this model (which in-
cludes several thousand details) by Mr. Mendeleff required much labor
and skill. It is prepared in papier-maché, and presents the true colors
of the village as well as all the detaiis.

During the season, Mr. J. K. Hillers, the accomplished and skillful
photographer of the survey, in addition to the geographical and geo-
logical illustrations made by him, secured a large number of finely exe-
cuted photographie views of all the Moqui villages and of Zuii, as well
as of many ruins in the region surrounding them, among which are many
character sketches of the people, interiors of their houses, eagle pens, cor-
rals, portraits of men, women, and children, also many views of the people
while in the attitude of baking pottery, drying meat, dancing, &c. The
work was not completed ; it is therefore contemplated to make further
and more exhaustive researches in these regions in the future.

Some years ago the Smithsonian Institution had two Indians, one
named Tichkematse, a Cheyenne, and the other Geo. Tsaroff, a native
of the Aleutian Islands, in charge of the ethnological hall. The pres-
ence of these Indians in the room attracted much attention, especially _
as they were able to explain intelligently the functions of many of the
implements and other objects from a personal acquaintance with their
use. As stated in the last report, Tsaroff died of consumption in 1880,
and Tichkematse returned to his tribe in the Indian Territory, where
he exercised, in the interest of the Smithsonian Institution, his abilities
as a taxidermist. During the past season, at the request of Mr. F. H.
Cushing, he was ordered to Zuni, and rendered very important service
as an assistant in making Soeselaeies collections under the direction
of Mr. Cushing and of Mr. James Stevenson.

CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS.

Pacifie Mail Steamship Company.—Among the earliest establishments
to co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution in its work of exploration
and exchange was the Pacific Mail Steamship Company; and during the
past year the Institution has been indebted to the president and officers
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

for important courtesies. Capt. John M. Dow, theresident agent of the
company at Panama, has continued to be of the utmost service to the
Institution, not only in transmitting valuable collections, but also in
taking charge of packages of books and specimens to and from the Insti-
tution. At his suggestion the president of the company has kindly of-
fered the facilities of the line to any explorer we may wish to send to
investigate the natural history, and especially the ichthyology, of Cen-
tral America. Arrangements will be made in the coming year to take
advantage of this desirable offer.

Corcoran Gallery of Art.—One of the departments of the Smithsonian
Institution, as designated by the act of incorporation, was the mainten-
ance of a gallery of art. On the establishment of the Corcoran Art
Gallery, with ample funds for the acquisition of paintings, engravings,
and statuary, and suitable accommodations for their display, the
Regents, under the authority vested in them by Congress, authorized
the transfer to that establishment of the collections of the art gallery;
and at present there is but little of importance in the Smithsonian
building, especially since the delivery to the Library of Congress of
the valuable collection of engravings purchased some years ago by
the Institution from the Hon. George P. Marsh, at present United
States minister to Italy. The Institution, however, still retains the
series of busts in plaster and marble of eminent historical personages
of both the Old and the New World.

Most of the objects in the art department were derived from the col-
lections of the National Institute for the Promotion of Science, an
organization which, after twenty years’ existence, expired by limitation
of charter, in accordance with which its property, in specimens, books,
&ec., was turned over to the Smithsonian Institution. Among the
paintings transferred was a full-length portrait of General Washington,
painted by the late Mr. Charles W. Peale. By authority of a law
of Congress this was sent to the International Exhibition of 1876 in
Philadelphia, and arranged with the other art collections. It was
subsequently transferred to the halls of the Academy of Fine Arts in
Philadelphia. It was, however, reclaimed by the Institution during
the past year, and placed in the Corcoran Art Gallery, where it now
remains. The ownership of this picture is claimed by Mr. Titian R.
Peale, a son of Mr. Charles W. Peale, its painter, and his claim for
compensation is now before Congress.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.—Revenue Marine.—Reference has already
been made to the co-operation of the Treasury Department in the scien-
tific work of the Institution, in instructing Captain Hooper to take Mr.
Nelson on board the “Corwin” for the special purpose of making an
investigation of the ethnological peculiarities of the natives of St.
Lawrence Island. In many other cases the revenue marine has ren-
dered essential assistance to science by its co-operation. Many valuable
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

specimens have been received from the officers, especially from Capt.
C. M. Seammon, Captain Hodgden, Captain White, Capt. J. G. Baker,
Captain Howard, and numerous others. Indeed, there is scarcely an
annual list of contributions to the National Museum that does not em-
brace a donation of greater or less magnitude from that office, and the
archives of the Smithsonian Institution have further been enriched by
valuable communications on natural history and ethnological subjects.

As another example of co-operation, mention may be made of the help
extended by the Institution to the two Doctors Kraus, gentlemen sent
to America in the early part of the year 1881 by the Geographical
Society of Bremen for the purpose of carrying on ethnological and bio-
logical researches on the Asiatic shores of Behrings Straits. Com-
mended to the Institution by Dr. Lindeman, and others, letters of in-
troduction were furnished to persons in San Francisco, and a permit
was obtained from the Secretary of the Treasury authorizing the ship-
ment of ammunition and supplies for making natural history collections.
The Smithsonian Institution also furnished a quantity of alcohol for the
preservation of fishes and marine invertebrates.

These gentlemen embarked ona schooner at San Francisco. and were
last heard from at St. Lawrence Bay in Siberia. At that time they had
secured quite a number of specimens, and were prosecuting their re-
searches among the Tschuches.

The Coast and Geodetic Survey, also a bureau of the Treasury Depart-
ment, has continued its favors in authorizing the officers in charge of
shore parties or of hydrographic work to utilize any convenient oppor-
tunity at their command in collecting specimens for the National Mu-
seum. Very valuable collections were made during the year by Com-
mander Nichols, in charge of the Coast Survey steamer “ Hassler.”
These embraced fishes and reptiles from Mazatlan and elsewhere, along
the coast of Lower California, from Upper California, and from Alaska.
Quite a number of new species of fishes have already been described
from this collection.

In previous years many contributions were made by Lieut. Wm. P.
Trowbridge, Mr. Wm. H. Dall, and others of the Coast Survey, which
are among the most important accessions to the National Museum.

In this connection it should not be forgotten that the recent explora-
tions by Mr. Alexander Agassiz, in connection with the physical and
natural history of the South Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, have been
made under the direct patronage of the Coast Survey, and that the first
series of all collections, embracing many new and rarespecies, are, by
law, the property of the National Museum.

The Light-House Board of the Treasury Department has also contin-
ued its aid. This has been extended more particularly in the way of
instructions to keepers of light-houses and light-ships to make observa-
tions in regard to the temperature of the air and of the water and of the
occurrence of the phenomena of migrations of marine animals. With
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

the*help of thermometers furnished by the Fish Commission or the Signal
Office, a valuable body of material has been obtained, throwing impor-
tant light on the movements of fish in relation to their physical sur-
roundings.

NECROLOGY.

During the year 1881 I have to report the loss by death of two among
the employés of the Smithsonian Institution; one of these, Mr. JOHN
H. RICHARD, which took place at Philadelphia on the 18th of March;
the other, Miss MAGGIE CONNOR, at Washington, onthe 20th of Novem-
ber. Mr. Richard was a Frenchman by birth, but a resident for many
years of this country, and for a long time occupied a prominent position
among natural history draughtsmen. Originally employed by Professor
Holbrook in the preparation of the plates of his great works on the
reptiles and fishes of South Carolina, he entered the service of the
Smithsonian Institution nearly thirty years ago, and was employed for
many years in making illustrations of reptiles and fishes for the re-
ports of the Pacific Railroad, the Mexican Boundary, the Wilkes Ex-
ploring expeditions, &c. Resigning his position, he for some years en-
gaged in business in Philadelphia as a colorist, still doing more or less
work for the Institution. Subsequently he resumed his old situation,
and for seven or eight years he has been principally employed in paint-
ing casts in plaster and papier-maché of American fishes and cetaceans,
the white work having been done under the direction of Mr. Joseph
Palmer. The excellence of these representations has been universally
commended, especially as exhibited to the general public at the Inter-
national Exhibition in Philadelphia and the Fishery Exhibition in Ber-
lin. The death of Mr. Richard leaves a gap among the capable natural-
history artists of this country.

Another death among the employés of the Smithsonian Institution
was that of Miss MAGGIE CONNOR, who died of consumption on the
20th day of November. Her father was one of the earliest employés of
the Institution and died in its service, and Miss Connor has been for
many years connected with the record department of the Museum.

It is, perhaps, proper to mention also the death of Mr. George W.
Riggs, on the 25th day of August, a gentleman who, although not at
the time immediately associated with the Institution, had long been its
financial agent, and who has rendered many very important services in
connection with his profession as a banker.

MISCELLANEOUS.

For many years Mr. Townend Glover, both before and during his con-
nection with the Department of Agriculture, was engaged in preparing
and in engraving on copper, in time outside of that due to the department,
a series of illustrations of the economical entomology of the United
States, until failing health and the almost entire loss of eyesight pre-
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. .

vented his further action. He had, however, engraved many hundreds
of plates, illustrating the life history of the insects most prominent as
beneficial or injurious to the farmer. Professor Glover published a por-
tion only of this work, printing at his own expense the text and illus-
trations. He has been desirous of obtaining help from the government
to issue the complete work, but so far has been unable to secure the
necessary appropriation, altbough the subject has been warmly recom-
mended by several of the committees on agriculture. Finding it neces-
sary to remove to Baltimore, he has deposited all his plates in fire-proof
apartments of the Institution, subject to further action. It is very de-
sirable, in the interest of the farmer and horticulturist, that this work
should be published at an early date, and the immense mass of practi-
eal information made available.

It has been the custom of the Smithsonian Institution to give to
eminent American men of science letters to its foreign correspondents,
commending them to any official attentions that may be convenient,
and requesting for them the privileges of libraries and museums. Dur-
ing the year 1881 such letters were given to Dr. J. S. Billings of the
Medical Department of the Army, a member of the National Board of
Health, who visited Europe on official business connected with the
jatter establishment, and to Dr. Durgin, President of Hillsdale College,
Michigan.

INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS, ETC.

Reference was made in the report for 1880 to the part taken by the
National Musenm and the United States Fish Commission in the Inter-
national Fishery Exhibition, held at Berlin in the spring of 1880. The
collections sent to Berlin have all been returned and restored to their
places. Thereports of this exhibition by various foreign countries have
been received, and all unite in referring to the display made by the
National Museum and Fish Commission as being by far the best and
most instructive of all, this being corroborated by the receipt of the
highest awards. The grand prize, a silver gilt vase of beautiful design
and of great cost, was made personally to your Secretary as head of the
United States Fish Commission, and an act of Congress was passed
authorizing him to receive it free of the duty, which alone would have
amounted to about one thousand dollars. He has presented it to the
National Museum, of which it will doubtless constitute an attractive
object.

A second exhibition in which the Smithsonian took part was that of
the International Electrical Convention, held in Paris in August, 1881.

A series of the publications of the Institution, relating to electricity,
was transmitted and placed in charge of the American commissioner,
Hon. George Walker. The appreciation by the jury of the services of
Pofessor Henry to electrical science by his discoveries and of the Institu-
tion by its publications was shown by the grant of one of the highest
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

awards, namely, the Diplomaof Honor. The American representatives
at the exhibition were Mr. Walker, commissioner-general, Prof. George
F, Barker, commissioner expert, &c.

The occasion of the International Electrical Congress in Paris during
the past summer was embraced by the French Government for bringing
together a commission in relation to the forthcoming transit of Venus,
and, at the request of the State Department for a nomination of an
American known to be in Paris, the name of Prof. G. F. Barker was
suggested by the Institution as a suitable representative on the part of
the United States. Although not an astronomer, Professor Barker is
well known as a most accomplished physicist, and able to take part in
any general discussion of matters and system of co-operation.

International Congress of Americanists.—An international association
devoted to recovering data in regard to the early history of the Amer-
icas has for many years held its sessions annually in the different eapi-
tals of Europe, that for 1881 being held at Madrid, under the special
patronage of His Majesty King Alfonso. The Smithsonian Institution
was invited to take an interest in this association by collecting sub-
scriptions and issuing tickets of membership. The proceedings of the
meeting have not yet been published. It has been suggested that an
invitation be extended by the President of the United States to have
one of the forthcoming meetings of the association held in this country,
and that the hospitalities of the nation be extended by an appropriation
by Congress for the expenses of oceanic travel. This matter will prob-
ably come up for the consideration of the government at the proper
time.

International Geographical Congress.—Another international econven-
tion which took place during the summer was that of the Geographi-
eal Congress at Venice. The publications of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and of the United States Fish Commission, as far as they bear upon
geographical explorations and discovery, were presented, and the
United States was ably represented by Capt. George M. Wheeler,
United States Engineers, a gentleman well known for the magnitude
and importance of his explorations under the War Department.

EXTERNAL RELATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The Smithsonian Institution occupies a somewhat peculiar position
in its general relationships. Provided by the liberality of a foreigner
with funds for carrying out its own special work, and charged by the
government with additional duties, for which means are provided by Con-
gress, it has relations on the one side to private or special establish-
meuts, and on the other to those of the home and foreign governments.
46 REFORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In its purely Smithsonian operations, it may be designated as exercis-
ing all the functions of a great society, such as the Royal Society of
London, the academies of St. Petersburg, Berlin, Vienna, &c., with-
out any members, the work being done by a purely official bureau. In
one relationship or another it publishes results ; it superintends a great
museum and library and gallery of art; it maintains a laboratory ; it
conducts a system of international exchanges, in which its associates
are directly in communication with bureaus of foreign governments.
For the United States Government it supervises the National Museum
and the international system of exchanges. It also acts in a measure
as a Scientific adviser of the government in receiving questions for so-
lution, making chemical and other investigations of material, nominat-
ing experts or agents, in connection with scientific work, &c., its fa-
cilities being always at the command of either Congress or the depart-
ments.

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.
ITS GENERAL OBJECTS AND RESULTS.

My appointment, at the commencement of its operations in 1871, to
the charge of the United States Fish Commission, has rendered it ex-
pedient to give some account of its operations year by year in the an-
nual report of the Smithsonian Institution.

Although commencing in the year mentioned on a very smali scale,
the demands of the public and the will of Congress have caused a no-
table extension each year, until at the present time the commission con-
stitutes a very important factor in the operations of the government,
fairly comparable, so far as the food problem is concerned, with the
Department of Agriculture.

The two branches into which the work of the Commission is divided,
namely, that of the investigation of the condition of the fishing and
the fisheries, and the propagation of food fishes, have been explained
beretofore, and with especial fullness, in the report of the Institution
for 1880, so as to render it unnecessary to go into the same detail at
the present time.

For the purpose of continuing the investigations into the condition
of the fisheries, Wood’s Holl—the locality where the first work of the
Commission was begun in 1871, and continued in 1875—was selected.
This point of the coast offers exceptional advantages as a center of in-
vestigation, mainly owing to the conveniences placed at the service of
the Commission by the Light-House Board, in the form of a suitable
building for a laboratory and store-room, and wharfage for the small
boats. The waters in the vicinity are also exceptional in their purity
and in the abundance of animal life; and the point itself is central,
permitting ready departure to any desired localiity.

As in 1880, the ‘ Fish Hawk,” the hatching steamer of the Commis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

sion, was used for the off-shore researches and in her complete equip-
ment of apparatus answered every demand. The vessel was still in
command of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, an accomplished naval officer, who
was not only competent to take charge of the vessel in all matters of de-
tail, but by his thorough knowledge of mechanical appliances, and his
inventive powers, was able to devise many very important improve-
ments in the machinery necessary for carrying on the work.

The officers and crew of the vessel were supplied, as before, by the
Navy Department, in accordance with the law of Congress. The only
change in the detail of officers was the replacing of Engineer Boggs
by Engineer Bailey.

Fuller reference will be made in another part of this report to the
work of the ‘* Fish Hawk” in connection with the hatching of food
fishes. The vessel was first employed in this capacity in Albemarle
Sound, and afterward in the Susquehanna River, two of the stations for
the propagation of shad. She afterward proceeded to Chesapeake Bay
and engaged in experiments looking towards the artificial propagation
of the Spanish mackerel.

During the two previous seasons of occupation of the Wood’s Holl
station by the Fish Commission a very thorough investigation was made
of the inshore localities, the whole of Vineyard Sound, Buzzard’s Bay,
and other adjacent portions having been thoroughly explored in the
“Blue Light” and other smaller vessels; it was therefore determined to
contiuue the work commenced at Newport in 1880 along the eastern edge
of the continental plateau representing the hundred-fathom line. This
plateau, as has been explained in previous reports, extends along the
Atlantic coast of the United States to a distance, for the most part, of
from 75 to T00 miles, being however considerably narrower off Cape
Hatteras. The depth of water increases very gradually to one hundred
fathoms, not much faster in most cases than one fathom to the mile,
affording a level almost equal to that of a western prairie. On reach-
ing the limit, however, the descent is very abrupt, sometimes amount-
ing to 1,000 fathoms, or considerably over a mile, in a few miles. Along
the edge of this precipice animal life occurs in vast profusion, both as to
the number of individuals and of species, thus furnishing a very inter-
esting field of research in the matter of general natural history, as well
as in regard to the occurrence and distribution of valuable food fishes.

The first cruise of the “ Fish Hawk” to this ground in 1881 was made
on the 15th July, followed by others at intervals of about once a week
through the summer. As the “ Fish Hawk” had been built for inshore
work, and not with reference to standing rough weather outside, it was,
of course, necessary to watch carefully the opportunity of slipping out
under favorable auspices, the dredge and trawl not being capable of
being used to advantage in a rough sea.

Very valuable service was rendered by the Signal Office in Washing-
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ington in this connection by furnishing information as to expected
storms in advance of their publication in the daily newspapers. The
vessel usually started out in the afternoon of one day and reached the
desired ground by daylight of the following morning ; then, after spend-
ing the day in dredging, returned the next night, reaching its berth the
following morning, or usually after an absence of from thirty-six to
forty eight hours.

The work in the laboratory at Wood’s Holl commenced on the 8th
July and continued until the middle of September. I remained until
the 4th October, after which I returned to Washington.

As in previous years, Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, had charge
of the collections and researches into the invertebrates, assisted spec-
ially by Mr. Richard Rathbun, Mr. Sanderson Smith, Mr. B. F. Koons,
and Mr. E. A. Andrews. Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bowdoin College, Maine,
as a volunteer, rendered essential aid.

The fishes were in charge of Dr. T. H. Bean, of the National Museum,
assisted by Mr. Peter Parker, of Washington.

The results of the season’s work were very satisfactory.

The locality of the tile-fish ground—the new food fish discovered
within the last few years, and referred to in a previous report—was re-
visited, and numerous specimens obtained for the purpose of testing
their eatable qualities. Other species of rare fishes—quite a number
new to science—were secured. Very large collections of invertebrates
were made, including many of great rarity, as well as a number of
undescribed species, while abundant materia! was obtained in all de-
partments for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution to colleges
and academies throughout the country, and for exchange with foreign
museums.

The “ Fish Hawk ” made some interesting deep-sea collections on her
return to Washington, where she arrived in the early part of October.
Her services were again called into requisition in the celebration of the
capture of Yorktown, having been tendered to and accepted by the
Secretary of War for his special service and that of his staff.

As usual at the summer stations ofthe Commission, there were numer-
ous visitors‘at Wood’s Holl during the summer, among them several
naturalists, who desired to make special investigations in their respec-
tive branches.

The fact that the entire coast of the eastern United States from the
Bay of Fundy to Long Island Sound has now been thoroughly explored
by the Fish Commission, and the geographical distribution of the various
species of marine animals ascertained, renders it desirable to fix per-
manently upon a station where the necessary appliances for storage of
material for fitting out the exploring vessels can be kept, and where in-
vestigation of the animal life can be prosecuted to the best advantage,
and also from which easy access can be had to any part of the North
Atlantic Ocean. Believing that all these requirements are met at
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

Wood’s Holl, and finding that the accommodations so liberally furnished
by the Light-House Board would not be sufficient for the enlarging scale
of work, I was able to make provisional arrangements during the sum-
mer looking towards the erection of a station in the Wood’s Holl great
harbor.

The great harbor of Wood’s Holl, although somewhat obstructed by
rocks, is yet capable of being made, at moderate expense, one of the
most important of those on the coast, being the only one between New-
port and Provincetown in which vessels of large draught can enter and
be secure against storms from any quarter. There are several shoal-
water harbors within the district mentioned, which are, however,
usually untenable during storms from a particular direction. A vessel,
however, once in Wood’s Holl harbor is perfectly safe from any danger
from storm.

One of the obstructions to the practical use of the harbor for this
purpose is a reef running out to a considerable distance from the north
side. Upon this vessels are liable to be wrecked, and the idea of hay-
ing this obstacle removed has frequently been entertained by persons
interested. The expense, however, would be very great, and it was
found to be much cheaper to mark the reef by a pier built over it, and
in so doing protect the only vulnerable part of the inner harbor from
the swell coming from the south, thus assuring entire security to ves-
sels behind it. As this work, besides being greatly in the interest of
commerce, promised to meet all the requirements as a wharf for tne ves-
sels of the United States Fish Commission, it was determined to ob-
ain, if possible, the adjacent land for the purpose of erecting the neces-t
sary buildings, and as it is practically very difficult to secure an appro-
priation from Congress to buy land, several parties agreed to furnish
the funds necessary to purchase this land and present it to the United
States. A provisional agreement was therefore made with the proprie-
tors to sell the adjacent shore in the event of an appropriation being
made by Congress for the engineering work.

In connection with the pier it is proposed to construct basins for the
reception of fish, in which they can be penned until their eggs are ripe
enough to be removed and treated artificially. I trust that I may be
able in the report for 1882 to chronicle the successful accomplishment
of these various measures and the actual working of the station.

The second branch of the work of the Fish Commission—that of the
hatching of fish—has been carried on during the year with increasing
and eminent success.

The first division of the work to be mentioned is that relating to the
carp, a food fish, the best varieties of which were first introduced into
the United States by the United States Fish Commission, and have
been distributed very extensively to all parts of the country during the
year. The principal station ot production is in the ponds in the vicinity
of the Washington Monument, in Washington City, and from them many

S. Mis. 109——4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

thousands have been sent out through all parts of the United States,
this work being done either by shipments in passenger truins under the
direction of messengers, or by car loads. Much apprehension of loss
was excited by the ice gorge of the Long Bridge, at Washington, on the
12th February, 1851, by which the waters of the Potomac were backed
up so as to completely flood the carp ponds. Tortunately, however, the
grounding of the floating ice on the exterior limits of the ponds secmed
to have the effect of preventing the fish from escaping ; at least, careful
examinations induced the belief that no considerable number had been
lost.

The collecting of the eggs of the shad, and the hatching out and
distribution of the young fish, were also carried on throughout the year
ona very large scale. The three principal stations were Albemarle Sound,
the Potomac River, and the Susquehanna. The ‘Fish Hawk” was
first dispatched to Avoca, Albemarle Sound, passing through the Chesa-
peake and Albemarle Canal, for the purpose, arriving the end of March.
The steamer ‘“ Lookout,” in charge of Lieutenant Wood, was also dis-
patched to Albemarle Sound in March, and the two vessels were engaged
for several weeks in the operation of hatching shad; after which work
was transferred to the Potomac River. By the courtesy of the Navy
Department and the authority of the commandant of the navy-yard,
the principal station was made in the boat-house of the yard, to which
theeges were brought by the * Lookout” from the seine-hauling localities
down the river. The “Fish Hawk” was engaged also for a time on the
Potomac in similar work. Battery Island, on the Susquehanna, was also
utilized in a like connection, and many eggs hatched out both there and
on the “Fish Hawk”, which was for the greater part of the time anchored
some miles distant, inthe northeast. run. The shad thus obtained were
sent into almost every State of the Union, and very greatly to the
satisfaction of the inhabitants. The total number distributed amounted
to many millions.

As In previous years, the obtaining and distributing of eggs of the
California salmon were also carried on on a very large scale at the
station on McCloud River in California. Many millions of eggs were
distributed throughout all parts of the United States, and a number
sent to foreign countries in response to official requests to that effect.
As usual, several millions of the young fish were hatched and planted
in the Sacramento River for the purpose of keeping up the supply. The
hatching station itself had been destroyed by flood during the previous
winter, but a special appropriation having been made by Congress for
rebuilding it, the money was received in time to make the station avail-
able for this purpose.

The collecting of eggs of the Atlantic salmon was continued, as here-
tofore, at the station near Bucksport, on Penobscot Bay, in Maine, and
the eggs obtained were distributed, for the most part, to State fish com-
missioners, to be hatched out and planted at their discretion.
-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

The work connected with the land-locked salmon was continued at
Grand Lake Stream, and many eggs secured.

The multiplication of white fish constituted, for the first time, an im-
portant branch of the labors of the Commission. For this purpose a
station was established at Northville, Mich., under the charge of Mr.

‘Frank N. Clark, who obtained the eggs required in the Detroit River,

Lake Erie, and Lake Huron. Some 18,000,000 of eggs were secured and
distributed, and nearly all were returned to the waters from which they
were originally taken. Some were sent to various smaller lakes, and a
few to localities in Europe.

The species of fish enumerated above represent the most important
objects of attention and action of the Commission, although some work
has been done in connection with the multiplication of the California
trout, the brook trout, the striped bass, the Spanish mackerel, and the
oyster. Full details in regard to all these points will be found in the
report of the United States Fish Commission.

Before closing this subject brief reference may be made to an impor-
tant improvement in the method of distributing the young fish on the
part of the Commission. Heretofore this has been done by messengers
in charge of a certain number of cans containing young fish, and travel-
ing in baggage cars or express trains. Although the railroads have
almost uniformly been extremely courteous and liberal in their co-opera-
tion with the Commission, allowing, without extra charge, the trans-
portation of as many as from twelve to sixteen large cans of fish, yet
that mode of distribution was found inadequate to the requirements,
and the experiment was accordingly tried of fitting up a ear as a re-
frigerator, in which a much larger supply of fish could be carried and
kept at a uniform temperature sufficiently low to prevent injury to
the fish by the summer’s heat. Accordingly, by authority of Mr.
Isaac Hinekley, president of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Bal-
timore Railroad Company, one of the baggage cars of the company
was altered to a refrigerator ear of the Ridgway patent under the di-
rection of the patentee. This has been tested and found to answer
an admirable purpose by the delivery of the young fish at the most
remote points practically without any loss.

FISHERIES CENSUS.

In my report for 1880 I presented in considerable detail an account
of the arrangement made with General Francis A. Walker, Superin-
tendent of the Census, by which the investigation of the fisheries of
the United States was undertaken as the joint enterprise of the United
States Fish Commission and Census Bureau. This investigation was
to be made as complete as possible, statistically, historically, and with
regard to the methods employed at the present time in the fishery indus-
tries. The preparation of astatistical and historical report upon the fish-
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

eries, to form one of the series to be presented by the Superintendent of
the Census as the result of his investigations in 1880, has been the main
object of the work ; but in connection with this statistical work, extensive
investigation into the methods of the fisheries, into the distribution of
the fishing grounds, and thenatural history of useful aquatic animals, has
been, and is being, carried on. The direction of this investigation from
the start has been confided to Mr. G. Brown Goode, who was appointed
agent of the Census Office, and has been carrying on the work in addi-
tion to the performance of his.duties in connection with the National
Museum.

The work began on July 1, 1879, and the final report, it is hoped,
will be ready for publication as early as February, 1882. The scheme
of investigation and the methods of inquiry are described at length on
pages 78,79 of my report for 1880, and in this place it seems neces-
sary only to mention under the head of each district the names of the
persons employed and the dates during which the investigation was,
carried on. The districts and departments, twenty-four in number,
have been covered as follows:

I. Coast of Maine east of Portland, by R. E. Earll and Capt. J. W.
Collins, from August 1 to October, 1879, and from July 29 to October
20, 1880.

II. Portland to Plymouth (except Cape Ann) and eastern side of
Buzzard’s Bay, by W. A. Wilcox, from September 2, 1879, to March 1,
1881.

III. Cape Ann, by A. Howard Clark, from September, 1879, to No-
vember, 1880.

IV. Cape Cod, by F. W. True, from July, 1879, to October, 1879, and
during September and October of 1880.

VY. Provincetown, by Capt. N. E. Atwood, from August, 1879, to
August, 1880.

VI. Rhode Island and Connecticut, west to the Connecticut River,
by Ludwig Kumlien, from August 16 to October 16, 1880.

VII. Long Island and north shore of Long Island Sound and west
to Sandy Hook, by Fred. Mather, from August 1, 1879, to July, 1881.

VIIL New York City, by Barnet Phillips, from January, 1880, to
July, 1881.

IX. Coast of New Jersey, by R. E. Earll, during December, 1880.

X. Philadelphia, by C.W. Smiley and W. V. Cox, during November,
1880.

XI. Coast of Delaware, by Capt. J. W. Collins, during December,
1880.

XII. Baltimore and the oyster industry of Maryland, by R. H. Ed-
munds, at various intervals during 1880.

XIII. Atlantic coast of Southern States, by R. E. Earll, from Janu-

-ary to July, 1880.
XIV. Gulf coast, by Silas Stearns, from August, 1879, to July, 1880.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

XV. Coast of California, Oregon, and Washington Territory, by Prof.
D.S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert, from January, 1880, to January, 1881.

XVI. Puget Sound, by James G. Swan, from January, 1880, to Jan-
uary, 1881.

XVII. Alaska seal fisheries, by Dr. T. H. Bean, from June to Octo-
ber, 1880.

XVIII. Great Lakes fishery, by Ludwig Kumlien, from August, 1879,
to August, 1880.

XIX. River fisheries of Maine, by C. G. Atkins, during 1880.

XX. The shad and alewife fisheries, by Col. Marshall McDonald, from
October, 1879, to July, 1881.

XXIJ. Oyster fisheries, by Ernest Ingersoll, from September, 1879, to
July, 1881. :

XXII. Lobster and crab fisheries, by Richard Rathbun, from Jan-
uary, 1880, to July, 1881.

XXIII. Turtle and terrapin fisheries, by F. W. True, from October,
1880, to July, 1881.

XXIV. The seal, sea elephant, and whale fisheries, by A. Howard
Clark, from November, 1880, to February, 1881.

Respectfully submitted.
SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,
CONTAINING

1. Report on the Operations of Exchanges for 1831. By GrorGEe H. BOEHMER.
2. Report of the Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum: G. BRowN GOODE.
3. Report of the Chemist: F. W. TAyLor.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, |

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.
By GEoRrRGE H. BOEHMER.

The increase in the number of “ foreign correspondents” of the Insti-
tution since the publication of the last printed list, corrected to Jan-
uary, 1878, together with numerous changes in organizations, has ren-
dered necessary the preparation of a new edition of the pamphlet list
brought down to the end of the past year. This has involved the dis-
tribution of a cireular of formal inquiries to each of our correspondents,
and considerable labor in the compilation of the information obtained
from the replies. The new “ List of foreign correspondents,” corrected
to January, 1882, has been carefully transcribed, and is now in the hands
of the printer. The original replies received have been arranged and
bound in volumes, so as to be readily accessible for reference at any time.

In addition to this list, card catalogues have been prepared, showing
at a glance, besides the name of each institution, the date of its estab-
lishment, and the total number of volumes-in its library, how many ot
these are Smithsonian publications, and designating the number of vol-
umes of the various series, and in this catalogue it is intended to enter
the Smithsonian publications to be sent successively to the establish-
nent.

Another card catalogue has been commenced, in which it is intended
to show:

1. The date of receipt of packages for any society, designating the
name of the sender and the contents of the parcels, if possible, and for
this purpose it is earnestly requested that all packages to be forwarded
through the Smithsonian Institution should have the name of the
sender and the contents plainly marked on the wrapper.

2. The date of transmittal, giving the number of the respective in-
voice and of the box containing the parcel ; and

3. The date of acknowledgment by the consignee.

This will necessarily increase the labor of the working force, but it
is hoped will promote the efficiency of the system also, and facilitate
by this series of checks the tracing of any miscarried parcel.

a0
56 REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

The Smithsonian Institution, through its international exchange, is at
present in correspondence with 2,908 societies, located as follows:

AFRICA. ASIA
Algeria.........-.-.--------++---------- 9 (Qube sR Soecie one soo ecsecse ssccesae Asoe 8
INGER We Soe OD COCa DOORN cou dos Saae meee u UNG 1Bee ee sees seer Se eas 3!)
Cape Colonies.--..-.---.--.------------ 6 APP eedeassceencasabstos wSeoHseeectoes 8
Egypt.-.---------.----+++-+------------ 8 JOE edhe webocdastonchserascesSncccnds 7
DED sess ee ee 2 Philippine Islands...... a, HRs Ee ee 3
Madeira 1 StraitiSetilements -22 222 s-- sae eca cas 3
Ee ee Ae as OS eee ey ae ieee 1 La, Sie 68
Manritinst sss ssssee sacs tose aaa 5 AUSTRALASIA.

Mozambique ..---..-.------------------ 1
STerlelenseencoe ere esac cence caia 2 New: SouthiWiales-cossesceeeeeoeeaeeee 15
—— 36) Queensland. -...-.--- 2.) -2 22. -2 65-22. 4
South Australiae sso cee eee eee 8
AMERICA. Pasm ania) ~seoassacn = seeeere eee eee 7
New Zealand: 25s). cche-eeeeseanecee sass 27
British America : ; Victoria Mts Secs Teas See aes 20
(ORIG) Saaee Scena ooesso Sopsaoesse 23 Wiest) Australiaw.2! sos. 32ens tees te eels 1
Winmit0 Daas = l= alo = l= ie ll) 1 — 82
We wi Simms wiC kiss silee a= lee 3 EUROPE
Newfoundland). sts se. eee == == 1
Nova Scotia......------------------ 5 Austria-Hungary ...----------.--.------ 172
— Hi) |PoiBys Fel Woe SSSE soprano socaGac besarte nSos aoe 115
Central America: Bel carigies.a-= see eree eee ae Eee 1
CostawRicaseso>-es-eer == - eee ae ones i Denmark: 262 Vee ee ee 32
Guatemalayesspese--se = eae 2 5 Rrancenncsatasssesce -esseenice Le rae 489
Mexico: ~
Wee Ve se acoedeoss aca oae Se toec ese 23
— 23
West Indies :
ISMINNES) Sjosqacenc-sogb choses esse lt
Barbadoes .-----.------ Bpeeie aalenic ros 1 ‘
Cubans nese sean eeeee eee tO Ga liye Aah e cheree ie ci cistatete emo eiatne eyateiel teats 221
GuadeloupGspes- sete 1 Neueeards Silas menQnds boa cosenoodboact 81
APRON Be 6 Son Ss oo sess sadecisessos 1 INDAVENE Bbosasndeccessplseasoossomosnees 33
nin adeeeatete eee ee sere ob SodS 1 (Portucalissbase see eee eee aeve eee 38
Maris; islands asec ae ee eae 1 RuSS8ids oe sci ane eels em nition soe eats 172
—— A OSCLVED =o ci eee el cite ate lee emtere ete ak
South America: Spain..-.-.- Wao oobesbose ssbcsenedateonhes 29
Argentine Republic .....-.--.-- Saccs, lt! Swedens to. Sa. Sac eo ae See see 28
Bolivia oete ee ore ae oonee eee 1 Switzerland 525-2 s0=oeas6 seaeicet eeee es 83
Lyall (eo Sse ne doe sscnce coscceEage 10 Rork@ yee eae eee ae ecice ae 16
British Guiana 3 — 2,578
Chilteesee tere see eee 12 POLYNESIA.
Columbia 3
MO nteh: Guiands. see esas eee eae eee 2 Sandwich" islands==- =... occa-c--e tee es
TSE Nee Saha coesctesacc Sana aseis 1 poet 2
Para CUNY ces e ee seen aeeee eee aa 1 MISCELLANEOUS.
Lei eae boost Cone sce poaser cacésaos 4
UREA SY a 555 coo soussoseseesas0s5o5 5 Mascellancousi-s-ssecceese eee seeree meas 7
Wenezuela ts ceocacsecsinesateesose as 3 — 7
— 62 P ae
otal nssasec cele eos ots ooo sceabiosioe ate 2, 908
RECAPITULATION.
ISTE) oon dono qopaaoquenedassssewaboabe aan BO || GAS WE pos ssbonsceos susdsonesseasosoSaswose 68
America : ISSR MEV ISIEY so ndgedcses so opseaecooseosonce ss = 82
IBTfISACAM CHUA cc ceecseeeee eee e se eae 3 PPITO POR sce isteeaaiee ee eemia aay seis eee eeratetate 2, 578
CoentraleAmericais sees seen =e eee Polynesiavecse = +e es - eee eee eee
IMGxXiCOtso2-cssso5= Se ee a ee Te 93 Mascellanceous :>- = se<\isj-.0-ssctinnseee meee sss Tf
Wiest Indes) << Sees ans fae Secunia soe ee 14
South America....2.-...-.-- be eeseaie Sass 62 Motels 322 38 b se setae Oo ee eae 2, 908

Comparative table of foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smith-
sonian Institution during the last ten years :

chy Pega RIM a ete ek ee aa 1, 985
SF Pe Git a a FE Ue ee ES AT 2,145
OTA te te CN capt RRO ed a 2,146
TE Yin OS IA Tae ok AeNSL pera Ata a 2, 207
18762052. Shadi leg: biaratc aap le PY Pt 9, 275

In the Smithsonian system two

Cre LEE ere al LY Sy is Re es A 2, 330
TOTS eee od BG Aig A Ng Ong ha 2, 333
TE Yi ee AN HD, SRL OA Bai ghd naps OL at 2, 481
ARROWS Mos Ne ok ae ear Jnana ee iste 2, 602
rE TRE aN maT BRYN Ht Ld 2, 908

distinct branches are represented,

namely, the ‘‘ Foreign. Exchange” and the ‘‘ Domestic Exchange,” to
which may be added the “Government Exchange.”
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 57
1.—FOREIGN EXCHANGE.

The “ Foreign Exchange” consists in the collecting, registering, and
sending, inregular transmissions to agents appointed either by the various
governments or paid by the Smithsonian Institution, of its own publica-
tions, those of the various government departments, scientific establish-
ments and individuals of this country, while the ‘* Domestic Exchange”
represents donations made by corresponding establishments and indi+
viduals abroad in return for contributions from this country.

The Smithsonian Institution, in this system, offering to correspond-
ents a safe and gratuitous channel of intercommunication, has to in-
sist upon the strict adherence to certain rules adopted principally in
view of the free admission, into all parts of the world, of boxes and
packages bearing its official stamp.

These conditions being well known to the ‘‘ Home Correspondents,”
the following circular is in course of preparation, and will be distributed
to all correspondents abroad on occasion of the next transmission of the
annual report, which will take place in the earlier part of the coming
year.

Rules adopted relative to scientific and literary exchanges.

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution from foreign
countries to be confined exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and
other printed matter sent as donations or exchanges, and not to include
those procured by purchase. The Institution and its agents will not
receive for any address apparatus and instruments, philosophical, med-
ical, etc., including microscopes, whether purchased or presented, nor
specimens of natural history, except where especial permission from
the Institution has been obtained.

2. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each sending
to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of
transmission.

3. Packages to be legibly addressed and to be indorsed with the name
of the sender and their contents.

4, Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely pasted or
tied with strong twine—never sealed with wax.

5. No package to a single address to exceed one-halt of one cubie
foot in bulk.

6. To have no inclosures of letters.

7. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents free
of expense.

8. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned
‘by the party addressed.

9. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly stated on or
in the package.

10. Unless these conditions are complied with the parcels cannot be
forwarded by the Institution.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

(ey

Centers of distribution.

In order to facilitate the scientific and literary intercourse between
the various countries, the bureaus, societies, and individuals enumerated
in the following table have been authorized to accept exchanges for
transmission to this country, and to distribute in their respective coun-

tries the sendings made through the Smithsonian Institution.

?
Country. City. Agency.
Argentine Republic.. .----- Buenos Aires....- Museo Publico.
ING RAEN (UNE T AY © ooo see 555||S ooeooceSssonno aoSD6e Same as Germany.
ASIN CIO nea SE Ot Re Stee on bHe eter see posrateees 0.
Ialkeniynin 5 5o42- ebeoesosoce IBEUSROIS@ cece eeeee Commission Belge d’Echange Internationaux.
IB YA Zils ae teeee wiewicie os aate Rio Janeiro....-.-- Comumissao Central Brazileira de Permutagades In-
ternacionaes.
lssakeslal AMNGIIEE - ooo moscuc| soease se seek ouEaoon= Same as Canada.
British Guiana .-.-..----.- Georgetown .---.... Observatory.
Ganad ares cst sane seee ee Montreal.......... McGill College.
WONearsnccene see ees Ottawa)-2--2---6-- Geological Survey of Canada.
Capo Colonies\-.- =... --24--|---2-0--2------4-=-=| Hames Great britain.
@hilipes sees ooeesesc sree eee Santiago......-...- Universidad de Chili.
@hinay ae sisaswaee sasssee Shanghai -.-:.-.... United States Consul-General.
Costa Rican. -seewess sen ald O86: a eecees- = Universidad.
Gubateeecer aeemes sceeeeee ee Havana..-......-- R. Universidad.
Menmarke-- 2-7 | cesses as Copenhagen -...-- Kong. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab.
Duteh Guiana ss. =. SupmMam!s--- 2. Koloniaale Bibliotheek.
Basten diesso- == eece eee ne | eee seca emo ee scents Same as Great Britain.
Beuad ote asses seen ee Onitoee sacs s-ee=e Observatorio.
Woypta cies ot eee eee @airoeesse eee sos=- Institut Egyptien.
TOA Ds Seer aut ee Aes bad Pee baSe ae BenOeee F. A. Brockhaus. Leipsig, Germany.
IOUS Gennecbschose5ssecoc JEW Gee sboesecsase Commission F'rangaise des Echanges Internationaux.
(Ministére de instruction publique et des beaux
. arts.)
Grermamyiec cece ae teen eLpSiG eee neers Dr. Felix Fliigel (49 Sidonien strasse).
Great Britain ......-...... NOG OD eeee sean William Wesley (28 Essex street, Strand).
GNCCCO js da- axieciss-tesy scenes AGH ONS Semele Bibliothéque Nationale.
Guatemala. i355 222. yen. Guatemala.....-.. Sociedad Economica de amigos de] Paris.
lai bEs eos en zk ee eek enene Port-au-Prince. ...| Secrétaire de ’Etat des Rélations Extérieures.
Veeland: 22522 3s cscee sa ser Reykjavik -..--.--. Tsland Stiptisbokasafn.
al yee sete nee nice eee ae Rome\ss 22 see case Biblioteca Nacionale Vittore Emanuele.
USO Ne Shan nets Reese dial at) coscensaceac Minister of Foreign Affairs.
AGIDOLISi ees Acoso see ealones Monrovia -=2-=5--- Liberia College.
IMGOXICO,25- oes -ekpescs seer Mexico ssss--se E! Museo Nacionale.
Netherlands. -.-..---.....- Harlem ss cessas~ Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais.
‘Netherlandsh Indies -2s25-|pecsasesose seen Same as Netherlands.
New Caledoniay225-%-2- 22 s|22 secon eee suepaee. Same as Great Britain.
New South Wales...-..--- Sydney =2---55--- Royal Society of New South Wales.
New, Zealand 25.) 212-22 Wellington .....-. Jolonial Museum.
ING ENS 22 Ses eneciscagscaone Christiania... -..... Kong. Norske Frederiks Universitet.
Philippine Islands. ...-...-- Manila..2......... Royal Economical Society.
ROL WM C818 sea ee ane tee Honolulu......---- Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society.
TORE bcnocm a easeeeeccoe Escola Polytechnica.
IPRUSSIAd -caceteeche ness ese Same as Germany.
Queensland Government Meteorological Observata’ y.
RUSS at te seein is sees St. Petersburg..-.| Commission Russe des Exchanges Internationaux.
@ (Bibliothéque Impériale Publique. )
SRMOUNa a Sse gssences saceee

Stblclenas ee sesso

Same as Germany.
Same as Great Britain.

South Australia -.........- Adelaide: -.-...22- Astronomical Observatory.

Spalneees oe sea toenie tesco des Madridteseceeee Real Academia de Ciencias.

Strait Settlements ages <2 252 ee ee Same as Great Britain.
Sweden...--..-......--..-- Stockholm.-...... Kong. Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien.
Switzerland...-...........- Berne. -22e ccs. eee Eidgenossensche Bundes Canzlei.
AUSTEN oo 5 55 Saeko. Hobarton.......-. Royal Society, Tasmania,
Prinidads.2-525:-5252 Port of Spain Scientific Association.

fhomkes) Islandes eee... 6.
United States of Colombi

; | Grand Turk

Public Library.

a2 Medellimenaa-spee University of Antioquia.
Venezuela pace ee ME ere Pree jaG@anacigas <7 Dr. A. Ernst.
WWACLOLIAIS A eS eee ease | Melbourne........ Public Library.
NVUPtOM Berge aco o setae Leute ee me hepeen oan” Same as Germany.

|

Agents of transmission.

In the shipment of Smithsonian exchanges the same liberality in
granting free freights has been shown as in previous years, the follow-
ing named transportation companies deserving especial acknowledgment:
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 59

Anchor Steamship Company, Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, Cun-
ard Steamship Company, Hamburg-American Packet Company, Inman
Steamship Company, Merchants’ Line of Steamers, Netherlands-Ameri-
can Steam Navigation Company, New York and Brazil Steamship Com-
pany, New York and Mexico Steamship Company, North Germau Lloyd
Steamship Company, Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Pacific Steam
Navigation Company, Panama Railroad Company, Red Star Line, Steam-

ship Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P.,

White Cross

Line of steamers of Nak eee
The transmission of the Smithsonian exchanges has been effected
through the following named parties.

Country. Shipping agents.

|

PANT MUR =e ase == Ls eRe: | ‘Chomas Dennison, New York.

Argentine Republics 2-3-2441 Consul Carlos Carranza, New York.

Iga ANN sass oes cooce noses-eece | Red Star Line, Peter Wright and Sons, New York; White Cross
| Line, Funch, Edye & Co., New York.

TA os dooms boon an aegoHe | Charles Mackall, Vice-constl, Baltimore.

GING) Cee ceceanaspocosasdscodose Consul-General C. de Castro, New York.

COSta RiCAseo -peresce seen sa aes | Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.

(O[lesSeHeehocaddasacoteunanas Hipolito de Uriarte, cousul-general for Spain, New York.

Wenmanks sesso oe eae ae ias Henrik Braem, consul-general, New York.

IDENT! Seo e poo dse SSeodHooscs Francis Spies, consul, New York.

IRV Ou bein bmec Specs ances oe aaee | S. L. Merchant & Co., New York.

LUNA Sesh sec ecooboesonene |; Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, L.de Bébian, New York.

Germany: soon. es ce ence North German Lloyd, Oelrichs & Co., New York, and Schumacher &

Co., Baltimore.

| Cunard Steamship Company, Vernon Brown & Co., New York ; Nortb

German Llovd, Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.

(Cane ca | oSencececorSooudoree | Consul D. H. Botassi, New York.

Guatomalas-se- ses n= seeeee | Consul Jacob Baez, New York.

LSE ieee sete sae cuscOnCnCooon bE Atlas Steamship Company, Pim, Forwood & Co., New York.

Wal yasosese. jos aooisee cele = cele = M. Raffo, cousul-general, ‘New York.

ap eee ames = esa ee eee id | Consul-General Samro Takaki, New York.

IW GXICO ms seer nese me seme | Consul-General Juan N. Navarro, New York.

Netherlands 2227. < 2 = ante o< ems | Netherlands-American Steam Navigation Company, H. Cazeaus,

New South Wales
New Zealand

New York.
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

transfer made by copsul-general of Russia, Hamburg.

INOUWYSGascs.c cece se clsctecae ee | Consul-General Christian Bors, New York.

Portucaleessscsn.2 poe es ' Consul-General Gnstay Amsink, New York.

Queens! pn Gea diss jonsaseacee | North German Lloyd, Schumacher & Co., Baltimore; transfer made
| at Queensland department, London, England.

IRUABIAE Seca iene saciciowtaeaprata Hi: imbure- American Pecket Company, Kunhardt & Co., New York;

TPASDIANIR Ga edos cece cose se:

Venezuela
Wittotia sess cere ae Sessa crane
Wrest Indiés\-~\.2 22556 sc255ep%5

' North German Lloyd, Schumacher & Co., Baltimore ;

R. W. Cameron & Co.. New York.
Consul-General Hipolito ¢e Uriarte, New York.

..| Consul-General Christian Bors, New York.
| North German Lloyd, Schumacher & Co. Baltimore ;

transfer made
by Consul-General von Heymann, in Bremen.

Turkish Embassy, Washington, D. ¢

transfer made
by Crown agents for the colonies, London, England.

Dallet, Boulton & Co., New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.

1. Receipt and distribution of exchanges.

At no time in the history of the Smithsonian Institution, even during

the Centennial Exhibition of the United States, in Philadelphia, in 1876,
and in the year following, bas the increase in the receipt and distribu-
tion of the Smithsonian exchanges been so marked as in the past year.
In 1877, when large presentations of documents were made in return for
the many donations made by the various nations, through their represen-
tatives, and collections of books forwarded at the request of the respec-
60

REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

tive commissioners, the increase over the year 1876 amounted to 25 per

cent.

on y2cord, and these will be exhibited in the following tables:

L—Receipts for foreign transmission.

The present year, however, presents results far superior to any

Number
of pack-| Weight
ages.
1.—FROM GOVERNMENT DE-
“PARTMENTS.
Pounds
Agricultural Department -. 325 1, 789
Bureau of Military Justice... 1 2
Bureau of Statistics..-.--.--- 3 47
@oastiSurveyicss---~--- se" 18 85
Commissary-General of Sub-
BISLONCOeeeanne ase esa 1 1
Comptroller of Currency..---- 900 645
Engineer Bureau...--------- 866 4, 999.
Entomological Commission. . 1 4
Fish Commission ne EE Oy 8 76
Geological Survey (Rocky
Mountain TO Z1ON) ses e eee see 54 270
Interior Department SOSBeOOL 173 768
National Museum. .....-.--. 49 4, 353
Naval Observatory..----..-- 1, 679 7, 216
Ordnance Office..----...-.---. 3 rird
Quartermaster-General - .-- - - 4 25
Revenue Marine............. | 50 25
Signal Offiee---s-se=s--4-=--- 120 2, 206
Surgeon- General’s Office. --.- 8 95
Surgeon- -General (Marine
EOSPIbAl) eee senieeeee see mses 53 25
Treasury Department.....-. 10 195
4,326 | 22, 903
2.—FROMSCIENTIFICSOCIETIES;
AND ESTABLISHMENTS.
Academy of Natural Sci-
ences, Philadelphia ..-..--. 229 667
Academy of Sciences, New
MOT KS 5 s27 o/s See see 419 245
Academy of Sciences, Saint
MGM a teen caeconee a 10
American Association for the
Advancement of Science.. 137 580
American Entomological So-
ciety, Philadelphia --...-... 17 32
American Journal of Aris
and Sciences, New Haven. 192 72
American Journal of Mathe- |
matics, Baltimore . 1 ie
American Pharmaceutical |
Association, Philadelphia. | 39 91
American Philosophical’ So-
ciety, Philadelphia -...... | 701 950
Board of Public Charities, |
Philadelphiasesaeeeee sae | 26 55
American Academy of Arts |
and Sciences, Boston ..-. 588 677
Boston Society of Natural |
IStORy ect eso ee see | 312 | 1, 869
prow Library, Providence, | |
Ii eph Gre ea ee me gy ee a 2 | 31
Burialo (New York) Society |
of Natural Sciences. .....-.! 110 22
Canadian Journal. ..........| 48 14
Columbia College, New York. 139 195
Essex Institute, Salem, Mass 294 340
Geological Survey, Harris-
burg, Penny 2 hseaca eee. 29 457
Harvard College..........-.. 1 9
Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimores: = see eee 4 10

| Bell, A
| Bessels,

Marietta (Ohio) College

| Museo Nacional, Mexico.....

Nederlandish Legation,
Washington
Nova Scotian Society of Nat-
ural Sciences, Halifax...... |
Peabody Institute, Baltimore. |
Pennsylvania Historical So-
ciety, Philadelphia
Public School Library, Saint
Louis

| Secretary of State, Lansing, |

Mich

State Library, Albany, N. Y.

3.—FROM INDIVIDUALS.

Jenene eee cwee ee

er raisin Major F. B
Gill, Dre

Hall; Prof. Jamesins5--cses-
Harkness, Prof. William....
Hawes, Dr. George W
Hayden, Dre Wissen = eee
Hessel, Dr. Rudolph
Holden, Prof. E.S
— F. B

King, Prof, C Shenbeancoadaces
Knight, Dr. E. H
Lee, Dr. William
Lesquereux, Prof. Leo.....-.
Mallery, Col. Garrick........
Mallet, J. Edmond
Marnock, G. W
Morong, Thomas.
Nipher, F. E
Palmer, Joseph
Philips weeny ee cence eee
Rawr hanes. se eee.
Rhees, William J
Smith, Prof. J. H
Solberg. Miaress ise oe aac
Stevenson, James.... _.
Stockwell, JI-N

Thomas, Prof. U....--------.
Walker, S. T

Number
of pack-
ages.

oe
seo
DAH SCH HEH WH OME R ROTO

ou

bo

nn
PHN HOA STH ROMO HE HOHE OGHHE ROWED

_

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. Gl

1I.—Receipts for domestic transmission.

Number of | Number of |

boxes. parcels. | Weight.
| a
Pounds.
nA ep ee SSB no Ce QSOR otc Dec cdine nd ener boeronno soseceses.4 2 32 0
Belgium......-----.--2- 2-222 eens eee eee eee ene e eee: 5 213 1, 760
IBTOZ a seeing concn clceeeaelesceia dias ncinie=clslonine'sweesee= = in =e = 4a) 87 980
JOpSS| HI EAGNES eee sodas Sec oHoo HbR Ee Sone ocosecoressqo encase 1 14 106
BT AN CO... occ. os nec enn ee cencnesnsece-enenscneess-ns-s---- 14 1, 027 3, 243
(GOED Grae ae rec aco COS HO BOO GOe ORDO COC SEDO RDEIGO OS OBooEE 34 2, 542 8, 178
Grest Britain. o- -<ccee smeaaecte © cele baieieta'al= a =m mim <1 1a [= =/=)=/=/=\= 23 1, 369 6, 808
Hor uibraryor Congressesesen ese - <= eee e == selene anise 15i | eeceeesees 2, 855
Lak E yes eo Bae QoS co osama dC00 Ho -ore soeoe  eSepsepSssoeeacias 2 87 340
LIANE cp CRD OOOO COCR OOS SD SCOCNED Cel noc Gigi EDSeEeEececeece 2 58 410
Taye Soop oso dacos-GoSenr ess osegeoccssead cose scossseccr 1 1 31
ING EAY cosbg Sscneo oss sne setae cofandorreee dso scccossacssoe 2 151 405
IRTEGTINS aS ccgec hors + se cocon song so0de ss sestoesaobesesdsEsee 4 258 780
SiNthsoniaAn Uns onWOne= ecatesaea eee aioe eel awl sates [eee eee ee 1, 937 7,101
Shy alts BGS Ss doose bo ccco na sane sos be sec SaaS ESE DEN COnCO 2 114 250
INGA spc none Sacco scdossSoossoo tedatsondcsssseone 111 7, 890 33, 291
Iil.—Receipts for government exchanges.
From the Public Printer: 300 sets, of 50 copies each, of the public
documents printed by order of Congress.........-...-.--.-------- Copies, 15,000.
RECAPITULATION.
: Number of | :
parcels. | Weight.
|
|
Pounds.
1. For foreign transmission:
1. From government departments. -..-- SCOT COSCO HAC OHOS BS nOOHIC esos eS BASoee 4, 326 22, 903
AeA LOMERCION HICH SOCLOUIOS seen calctso nia ose ocear os eee as as ee caieelesnl ; 3, 631 6, 816
Sy Un marth G@ Gels one fee se Sec eS Heb ae Sena COL ECO SOSeCende 9 sacceEsasse 768 2, 937
Z- eH rom SOM GasOnia ne Lous tihlulOns = acest aoa ssseaa ee sas sem eae een seco ee 5, 436 17, 499
Seon domestioiLansmissiomcseecc ne onsccc sea coaecceccs aces ceistee dees ocies 7, 890 33, 291
TRA gee As ale eh ON ME tyne, BREN 7 abo 8 ear ae eee nae 22, 051 | 83, 446

Transmission of exchanges.

The transmission of exchanges is ordinarily in direct proportion to
the receipts. The year 1880, however, made, in a measure, an excep-
tion to this general rule, owing partly to a reorganization of the depart-
ment and partly to an unusual augmentation of the receipts during the
latter portion of the year, thus requiring an extra effort during the year
1881 not to fall behind in the transmission. This end has been attained,
and the result now presented is favorable in every respect. All former
accumulations have been worked off, and by giving immediate attention
to the constantly incoming material nothing has been allowed to aceu-
mulate, and thus the working force in this department is fully prepared
to transmit promptly any exchanges immediately upon receipt.
62 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

The number of boxes transmitted during the year amounted to 407,
and compare with the transmission of former years as follows:

Number of | Bulkineubic, Weight in
boxes. feet. pounds.
|
| 1 :
179 954 26, 850
196 | 1, 476 44, 236
131 | 933 27, 990
208 1, 508 45, 500
32 2, 261 80, 750
397 2,779 99, 250
309 2, 160 69, 220
311 | 2,177 69, 975
268 | 1, 976 60, 800
407 2, 800 100, 750

The 407 boxes sent during the year 1881 were distributed as follows :*

aa/a:|¢ z
ADlaklea| 3
‘ ) too) Ba @.S |
Country. Za lnB BD q ak
ma | eo | 9-2 i =
Wesraraed a a. ~
1 Sw eA | Ae
aoia |e |o |e
AMERICA.
Argentine Republic....-.....-.- sige naag HaAgeeOS Hop desabasoseotansouse 2 MO meactor 4 7
Brazilesoes ams Bo eee Sea amt ate fatets pe ome ae aeeatyarorens arto e cls ialeya oom apelet al efacelers 4 5 A SS oes 2 7
(Ofer Ri Ee Va A eS UR Se Ue Ee Oe A a he eta rs cnmene, Ores (fel eee ee 4 10
Onn A aadathe ee nbs peo eatpeop cesce maa oe And Coca Me anOR Mm pODHuSSsOSE 5 i ate 2 8
(OI te hae eee eb ne ORG Heads Se one ouobE Heda cesccencneeeebennonS aa sa mdnaccse Ole een [omen seeeere 2
Beuador.....--. See ene ee eee eee ia titce ee ane nstee Serine aemrels Biol Sree Sosa sone 3
Catia EN ss eee en sa eee aes eee 68 Re ee oe aemenc qdobUce Decode [Se cceleeeese 1
TBE NAM aco Scene” oot Dee UN See EIS She pase nieseapacacecosog ses aneege ceded Sab serilScensallocetos 2 D)
I Kee TR Vist tne Aan ae HEE an hen SOO E SoREe Aenea e acitcocs sere nianeat aoser 4 of | saseet 2. 9
INCOR) IN Teo Cana ceenean sOGUy a see oe esa poSoScucoopbedaeepeseachienc=suDos I Nosgscslscosee|lsos-6¢ il
SVICTIOZAL CLA e sna ce eaGe cocina eee cite cect Be ies a ate Ee | 1 ASaoS | Sea 2 3
jee es ee
STAY EAT pe re a RO Stites facie ARS LEIS oo Ss Paes 29 6 | eS 18 53
| =
ASIA.
(ON TTD SD ak 5 eee See MA SL dae Pcl coe A pet apt geht ey rN dha fair A Bie che caren ek at | Camp De 3
Fast Indies. (Included in England.)
DPR ae Cha gh b beauisd Se Ce chabsceenscuaes onto cose senecdsesontonesss 2, PAN Sees 2 6
Java. (Included in Hotand.)
—— | —__$__ | —$————_ | _
Potala soe ee oe Ale nia esis a heya oe ore atc eins = catia eeeaele 5 Dl sec 2 * 9
AFRICA.
Algiers. (Included in France.)
Cape Colonies. (Included in England.)
AUSTRALIA.
ING wrooutb Wales occ ao- oe wena sone schwcacie cance cenecseeeeeertoesiss 2 n Mal ee ee 2 5
ENG WeAOMAN Gs caren croc tec am atte cient oes c wic nme iciteas renee eee cee nnes tae sce 2 6
@TNGeNSIAN Weer iaecienicm rises « meeeeiaatses Na aats ae eeuse ener ease tees aloes es 2 3
WOUGNPAITELLATIO. acs a ate seats cab piemas 2 2
MRASMAM Ae sen tse as Bs 2 2
Wit CDOT EE at. Sets e tS sists clara hele cee bre slate ara ets cela ie tee era ete ae 2 5
OCA Se as se a Se cps ett mal doe welactee a bese ees ke Eee Rene aoe nes 12 23

*TIn all cases the number of boxes given in this report includes the boxes sent under
the system of Government documents exchanged to the various governments specified
in the special report appended, and the transmissions to Canada which will be found
specified in the detailed report on domestic exchanges.
REPORT ON TIIE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 63
liGline sr ik « ~
litest re ul tret 8 g =|
= D> i] . (3)
| )#8|e8/S8| &
Country. ! hea Bea @ 5 =
c [Sd | Ps | 4-4 2 &
ai | Set] 28 5 °
mei e O sa]
EUROPE. |
Austria (Smithsonian Exchanges ineluded in Germany) -.-...-- -------)--.--- | Dilizaasee loose 2
Bavaria (Smithsonian Exchanges included in Germany) -.-.------.-----|.----- ee oe 2 2
IG ny min 5. Sacbbsechddte peaboun Soe Sono na bike aoe eomiec eno ahe esoose booms 5 | | ences 2 8
INGO SIE e a AOR SEP RBOOEE MAD cmcscas op Socueb cSactEOeee specs Sauce 2 Diane 2 6
MaNiCOneereseics c-nc s ~~ SS ced 22 seb desc Sd soe dsbecdnben saab eae saoes 29 2 1 4 36
Germany se saat odo ws we cme: oer bac a cenomicner oe eae secee ebind 65 St iveeen- 2 70
(AiG SiniiChbh Saab ameE aaa vecr ono o net abo jac SeDpUnbonGeoensosnebase see 48 | CF ies 2 54
EET OCO ee ee ae Ao aoe arn Smiele ame ae aS rae eae we Satiecns seu senate cose beeeie [oe ateel tenets 2 2
TARA cies ae ey aeRO EP Ca SO tak Oped SPR Ge 4 ee mee 28 Baltes 15 46
INIGHIATAR He ea cserbe aeons SCS One Cee A uRC SEE CER REECS seh Ga SenrShacG] 10 base tS 2 14
INIOA TEN e Hes SERS CCHS BS RODE TERE SeasOatCIAe Hao! Sodoneente) Sacedesaasec 3 rl Sea 2 9
2 RN ATOR! once Ss cocges sab soda cotSon soe tuey socond aaa ceqsone se saae 2 Dill Si aeeene 2 6
Prussia (Smithsonian Exchanges included in Germany) ....---------|-.---.|.-----|.----- 2 2
TET SLE’ pleas See ks Bae MER ee Sines Ci, eg a I et tees Se celta ees Wen oH eae ee ests 37
Saxony (Smithsonian Exchanges included in Germany) .--.----------- eee eee acepes 2 2
SPAMS wo Scere aces feel! cieseaeecssac cauen SoS ee Pan apa eae pene Dy lave es 2 4
DW OUGER! cece oct ute aa chinese cacce ne See se ey so aaive se wewecaeeewe ne 6 2 Sees 2 10
Swiezenlandie. seo see ee tase here wee ans oe senso coe enesenase see sess. iit eee a eee 2 8
DUT No Re RS se Seo ie EL Seon Coe ACGSn kat alle Jk encase ein eee Sess mse Ries ar y 2
Wurtemberg (Smithsonian Exchanges included tm Germany)..--..---|------|------|------ | 2
DO tall Po siasc sae ab eG meses casapesnae ae oecese= sete oes aase see 226 29 66 322
RECAPITULATION.
AGTELS Ago Dl pc ep Dt Ba PRED pT INN | Doula eine ees 18| 53
TNE SE Gem USES MAS OS EIS An SOTO a ae eee IIE Eee Scheer ce eee Ree oe | 5 Dither 2 | 9
PAU Staaten Use ae ae hale nets ahs TREO SE OL oe RAGES AES 4 UN ences 12 | 23
MEMO Paces sass oe Oe taints a tea seems tslew oem aeae aterciwe, te cjeien a= ee | 226 29 | 1} 66; 322

2.—DoMESTIC EXCHANGES.

The receipt of exchanges for domestic transmission has been stated as
being 7,890 packages. These, together with the accumulation from the
year 1880, amounted to 8,433 packages, which have all been worked
off, not one package remaining in the office at the expiration of the year.

The total number of packages transmitted compares with former
years as follows:

| | | |
1872. | 1873. | 1874. 1875. 1876. | 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1880. | 1881.
| } | | | =
{ ie a
Total addresses of institu- } }
tions ... , 300! 463] 462; 329} 316] 392 | 292) 444 | 385 | 600
Total addresses of individ- | H | {
ROG eee ont ee ee 287 | 226! 288} 281! 328 374 | 370 ! 341! 560 454
Total number of parcels to | | |
WISMUUTIONS) ss2-o4 + o- na cee 3, 694 | 3, 876 | 3,221 | 3,619 | 3,705 | 3, 868 | 4,059 | 5, 786 | 4, 021 | 7, 086
Total number of apres to |
individuals ................| 941} 906 | 1,105 | 1,042 | 1, 148 | 1, 094 | 1,233 | 1,185 | 1,566 | 1,347
Total number of parcels ....: 4, 635 | 4 782 | 4,326 | 4, 661 | 4,853 | 4,962 | 5,292 | 6,971 | 5, 587 | 8,433
! | ’ |

64

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

And were distributed to societies into the various States and Terri-
tories of the United States and of British America as follows:

States and Territories. | aa ei States and Territories. Berle oa
}
PAN aaa! was qleeicw elie erie wines neice foal | 1 HW Nebraska: 3..cnse ssseeemecepaaes Det 2
TAVKANGAB se Soc e vec te la ect coon 5 9 || New Hampshire 6 14
Califommia, ese. esen sje soe 21 148°) New Jersey (F24 cosets eemtieseee 11 41
Colorado eeereeacce ee ee a= 2 2NENew Work: 2222s. co saseer cerca 85 797
Connecticut ssecses-s=s2 ee oe= ee 16 322) ||| North Carolina Ge. -c-seseseseeeene 4 4
IO EES) Ges sab doangcsocéseshose 1 1) | RORIO] see ss aan area ae see eee 37 149
District of Columbia..-......-....-. AGN 24370) NOLO LON =. Si apace cea e eee 3 3
BOWED | sad aauldedasosaias soeCEcoSdoe 6 10S PR ennsvivanige eee ctaas aaa eer 17 747
MN OIS "stocks ceclenes seas cece cee os 34 209) Rhode Islands. -— 24 -eeee eet 9 21
Mm iam ae eecesee cel eceee coe 14 27) South Carolindaca se ancseeemeererce 7 24
MO ie boone meceoo eo canneradaanseace 15 135; ||) Tennessee) .\..c5/1- -= -escene=- sees el 8 8
KANSAS oe nteiaine + coei-sie isc aeacececies 5 17 2 3
Kentucky 5 11 1 1
Louisiana 8 49 7 49
Maine's. S225 ==: 15 53 10 16
Maryland | 15 84 || Washington Territory .--.---.----- 1 1
Miassichusettsi..2-<.-cccsececes=ee 7211, (039),|| West Virginiaiss.:---s---4-see4o—= 3 3
Michi vani-c2.. .ccccosescacascesses 15 G14 Wiasconsings <-,os hoe ce ses saa 11 157
WMT GE Oy ooo 5505 s50scnEpesaobace 7 28) || Saritish Americas s. -..\-c=4==-5 566 54 235
‘MiSSIBSIP Pi! 5: 2 s-jcese-e ss ccescee | 2 2 |
IMIngGOUriGAS jose nk Se ese eee ae 17 224 Totals peso Sanne ee ee 600 | 7, 086
}
List of consignees.
Recipients. ee Recipients. ee
ALABAMA. CALIFORNIA—Continued.
Tuscaloosa :
Geological Survey of Alabama ........... 1 Santa Clara :
Santa Clara College........---..---.-..-. 1
if eed LS
ARKANSAS. ——— 148
| COLORADO. ————
Fayetteville : Denver:
Industrial University. -2-+-----ssscsss-=s- 1} aGovernor Gilpinte soccer eee 1
Holly Grove: State Library. wocess osc ce seas eeseenee 1
literary unstitution, so-sceeasaee eee cee e 1
Judsonia : 2
Judson MIVerslbyeno=-6/-6 see = a= ee eee it CONNECTICUT. ==
Little Rock:
Governoriof Arkansas------.-----2-5-0 5 - 5 | Bridgeport :
Miteranyslnstitotionyes-=-..os secon see 1 || Bridgeport Library and Reading-Rooms.- 1
| Hartford :
9 || American Philological Society..--.-..--. 1
——=—"| State Board of Agriculture Seeincisiseeye seme 1
CALIFORNIA. State Library.) 22s ceises sew aee seeceeee 1
Berkeley : Theological Institution of Connecticut: - 1
University of California.............--..- 1 Trinity Collegetnt tases. a ceee eee 1
Marysville: Middletown :
Marysville Library... <<<... .-scssnccccnn ss 1 |) Wesleyan’ Univer sity.-----.---25- << 3
Oakland : New Britain:
University of California...............-.. Li StatesNormal School <2-2-2-2-----ssecnss 1
Sacramento : New Haven:
HPC HUIDNALY see nae sec ees castes seeeeee ses 1 || American Journal of Science, ete .--..-- 108
Society of Agriculture and Horticulture... 1 || American Oriental Society.----..-- -..-. 38
State Library - socesteweccaawneascaseense 3 || Connecticut Academy of Science....--.-. 139
San Francisco: Sheffield Scientific School ........-.-..-- 6
Academy, of, Sciences'-2-.5--2<5.ssecceeees 119: |} WaleCollere \. 2.2: sists eee ee 19
Agricultural and Horticultural. Society -- 2 || Young Men’s Institute -......----.--.--- 2
Biblioth eque dela Dione: -. 28522 aoe. 82 1 Waterbury:
Gorporationlofitheloibysesseenes eee 1 |iBronsonWibrary 222. esos see eeeee eee J
Piibramye woe souioseroe sities oe ce moesicnaeeo ue 1 —
Dick) ODSErvAatOry. sa. ccanas cee ee csenecee 8 322
Mechanics) Institute s.--.2 cesses ss snes. 1 DELAWARE. =
Mercantile Library sandoostdst seante tcc: 2
Odd Hellows wkbibrarys-ncceec coset eo seees 1 Wilmington :
Saint Ignatius College..........-....--- re 1 SWilmingetoniingsti¢ntes....s¢eere = aces se 1
State Geological Surver eae sas ociamiceeacee i ed
State Horticultural Soclety2s0. 422 tees 1 1
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

.

List of consignees—Continued.

Recipients. ,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Washington:
Agricultural Department. ...-....--.-----
American Medical Association
Anthropological Society
Arm edical Museum
Belgian Legation
Board of Health
Bureau of Education
Bureau of Ethnology
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery
Bureau of Navigation
Bureau of Statistics
Census Office
Coast Survey
Columbian University
Commissioners of District of Columbia ...
Commissioner of Indian Affairs
HN PINGEM BULeas hao - ease sviacceececcces
Entomological Commission
General Land Office
Geological Survey ......
Georgetown College
Georgetown Observatory
Aly drogen bio Office ....--
Index Me‘licus
Interior Department
Library of Congress
Light-house Board
Minister of China
Minti Boreaure avers. css Se ecacetsceace
National Academy of Sciences
INGiOn A MINISOMIM ss rcs nsoceedeises ec ae ace
INeSutical AIMAnNaG 5.55020 s.2 l= con cocle
Naval Observatory .
Navy Department
Ordnance Bureau
Patent OMmees 22 ..sceescscc ese ct ecceaweceee
Philosophical Society --..-..--..........-
Provost Marshal General
SOS a 0 eos See neo ona eeboee
Smithsonian Institution
State Department
Surceon-General i... os: osu. - seen ees
Surgeon-General, Marine Hospitals
Treasury Department
War Department

GEORGIA.
' Athens:
University of Georgia
Atlanta:
Agricultural Department and State Agri-
cultural Society
City Tibrary.22 22 shih s cc a scescacceces
Cave Spring:
Institute for the Deaf and Dumb
Macon:
Public Library and Historical Society....
Savannah:
Historical’Society...<25-2-cosdccometcaceents

ILLINOIS.
Abingdon:
Abingdon College
Bloomington :
Bloomington Library
Wesleyan University
Carbondale:
Southern Mlinois Normal University
Champaign :
Industwzial University
Chicago:
Academy of Sciences .-..............5..-
Astronomical Observatory...............-

S. Mis. 1095

Pack-
ages.

| Deaf and Dumb Institute

65

Recipients.

ILLINOIS—Continued.

Dearborn Observatory
HIS torical Soclotyanw-eeo samen cease eee
Illinois Staats Zeitun
Museum of Natural
IPnblichiibrary ssc ees ke ae cee ae coos
Theological Seminary
Evanston : .
Northwestern University
Galesburg:
Knox College
Lombard University
Jacksonville:

Tlinois College
Lebanon :
McKendree College
Monmouth:
Monmouth Colleges 22-2 .s- 22 ecee ses oe
Warren County Library
Normal :
Museum of Natural History
Ottawa:
Ottawa Academy of Natural Sciences ...
Peoria:
Mercantile Library
Rantoul:
Rantoul Literary Society
Rock Island :
Public Librar
Springfield:
Geological Survey of Dlinois
Library Association
St. Joseph’s College
Statedhibrary.- 26) sa sette ences
Westtield :
Westfield College
heaton :
Wheaton College

INDIANA.
Bloomington :
University of Indiana
Crawfordsville :
Wabash’ Colleges oon occ-nese sacs aeneer
Fort Wayne:
Concordia College
Greencastle :
Asbury University
Hanover :
Hanover College.....
Indianapolis:
Academy of Science...... -- eee cee
Geological Survey of Indiana..........-.
Publiciatbranyiss-. cee so ce cce: eee es oe
SiatevMibranyececcecce pecoesae ec esee ee |
Meron:
Union Christian College
New Albany:
Society of Natural History
Notre Dame:
University of Notre Dame
St. Meinard :
St. Meinard College
Terra Haute:
State Normal School

IOWA.

|

-_

Ames:
Iowa Agricultural College

Davenport :
Academy of Sciences
Griswold College

Des Moines:
Governor of Iowa.....- Lb cdsccuseecves aes
State Library

to Boke ee

a

ee ee ee ee

a

to
P|

>
7)

oe Db
66

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

" List of consignees—Continued.

Recipients.

1owa—Continued.

Dr'buqnue:
Towa Institute of Science and Arts
Fairfield :
Jefferson County Library Association. --.
Grinnell:
Iowa College
Indianola :
Siapeon Centennial College
owa City :
Geological Survey of Iowa
Iowa State University ..-..-
Iowa Weather Service
Keokuk:
Library Association
Monnt Vernon:
Cornell College
Oskaloosa :
Oskaloosa College

KANSAS.

Lawrence :
University of Kansas

Topeka:
Academy of Science
Historica! Society
State Library
Washburn College

KENTUCKY.
Danville:
Centre College
Columbia:
Christian College
Farmdale :
Kentucky Military Institute
Frankfort:
Geological Survey of Kentucky
Lonisville:
Corporation of the City..-..------.-------

LOUISIANA.
Baton Rouge:
State Wmiversitiyssc2s.cseece sae eecie es
Grand Coteau :
St. Charles College
New Orleans:
Academy of SCleNnCOiras eeeine eee ees eean ee
Athenée Louisianaise -..........---.2.---
Bibliothéque de la ville.....--..--.-<.5---
Corporation of the City --2=..--5-2+-.c--4-
New Orleans Deutsche Zeitung
University of Louisiana

MAINE.
Augusta:
Commissioner of Fisheries..........-.....!
Natural History and Geological Society -
State Board of Agriculture
State Library
Bangor:
Mechanics’ Association Public Library...
Brunswick:
Boy doiniCollegensss.aceseos6 seee ase +
HastoricaliSocilety eo. secne- cence see ee teat
Hebron:
Hebron Academy
Lewiston:
Manufacturers and Mechanics’ Association
Orono:

State Agricultural and Mechanical College
Portland:

Atheneum and Public Library...........

WHE eee ee

49

a oC

Recipients.

MAINE—Continued-

Maine Historical Society ................
Society of Natural History
Saco:
York Institute
Waterville :
Colby University

MARYLAND.

Annapolis :
St. John’s College
United States Naval Academy.....-.-.--.

Baltimore :
American Journal of Mathematics
Baltimore Deutsche Zeitung....--..----.
Corporation of the city
HistoricaliSociety=.----.---csseesee sees
Johns Hopkins University
Maryland Academy of Sciences
Maryland Institute
Mercantile Library Association
Peabody Institute ...Q@.......
St. Mary’s Seminary
State Normal School

Saint James:
Collegeof St. James

oodstock :

Woodstock College

MASSACHUSETTS.

Amherst :

| Agricultural College... --= - ooo -seee ===

| Theological Seminary

|| Boston Public Library
|| Boston Society of Natural History

|| Institute of Technology

| State Board of Health

Amherst College
Andover :

Boston:
Academy of Arts and Sciences.-...---.--.
American Board of Foreign Missions. --.
American Gynecdlogical Society
American Statistical Association
American Unitarian Association
Appalachian Mountain Club
Atheneum
Board of Agriculture
Board of Education
Board of State Charities
Boston College
Boston Hospital Library
Beston Medical and Surgical Journal ...

Bowditeh Library
Commonwealth of Massachusetts .--..--
Corporation of the city

Massachusetts Historical Society. -.-.--
Massachusetts State Library
New England Historic and Genealogical

Society
Science Observer

Brookline :
Publiehibrary--..sons--odactiess eee

Cambridge:
Anderson School, ete
Entomological Club. .....
Harvard Coll6fe: 2: 6-5 ocean eee
Herbarium of Harvard College........--
Museum of Comparative Zoology
Observatory of Havard College
Peabody Museum
“Psyche”

bo

iw)

Be Ee RENT OHHO Pe

2)
ns

HH EDR REE RHO He pe

i)
conme
eR Oo

bo
Nee SOO ee

~
REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

List of consignees—Continued.

Recipients.

MASSACHUSETTS—Continued.

~College Hill:
Tuft’s College
Concord :
Public Library
Gloucester :
Sawyer Free Library
Taverhill:
Publie Library
Hingham:
Public Library
Jamaica Plains:
BUSSEY UN SbLUUbOL sas) 523s eee suse ee cases
Lancaster :
Lancaster Town Library
Lawrence :.
Public Library
Leicester:
Public Free Library
Lowell:
Mechanic Association
Lynn:
Public Library
Nantucket:
Atheneum
Newburyport:
Public Library
Newton Centre:
Theological Institute
Northampton :
Public Library
Quincy:
Public Library
Salem :
American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science
Atheneum
ISsexuinstiiMiG=-seusech > -1s sateen eteso ay
Peabody Academy
Sou‘ Hadley:
Mount Holyoke Female Seminary
Springfield:
City Library
Taunton:
Public Library
Watertown:
Free Public Library
Wellesley:
Wellesley College
‘ Williamstown:
Williams College
Woburn:
Public Library
Worcester:
American Antiquarian Society
Free Institute of Industry
Public Ii brary jose se see
Society of Natural History

,

MICHIGAN.
Adrian:
Arian COlerescsccsesscseaerssae es eaeee
Ann Arbor:
Geological Survey of Michigan
Observatory
University of Michigan
Coldwater:
Michigan Library Association
Detroit:

PROD CLADTATY 40 oiocee cece eee eee me
State Agricultural Society................
Hillsdale:
Hillsdale College

Kalamazoo:
Kalamazoo College.............-- paosccdscr

Pack-
ages.

Recipients.

67

Pack-
ages.

to

ee a a

_
oe o oe Db »

Ce ee — ee

—

=

|| Agricultural College
|| State Library

|| University of Minnesota

| William Jewell College Library

| Chamber of Commerce
| Pustorical'Society.: -<kceetocas- seem ner eee
| Library Association

| University of Mississippi

| State Board of Agriculture

MICHIGAN—Continued.

Lansing:
State Board of Health......-...-...-.....

Marquette:

Geological Survey
Olivet:

Olivebi Collaroy: (oseces s asec aoa
Port Huron:

Ladies’ Library Association

MINNESOTA.
Duluth:

Free Public Library
Minneapolis :
Academy ot Natural Sciences.........-.
Geological Survey

Saint Paul:

MISSISSIPPI.
Daleville :
Cooper Institute
Oxford:

MISSOURI.
Fayette :
Central College
Glasgow :
Observdtorys 225 --s eee eee
Jofferson City:
Governor of the State

TRAD OEE ote ne Nios we ae aaa
TROLL Ree ete alas Ce 6B ie

Geological Survey of Missouri.-.....---
Saint Louis:

ACAGEMLY OLSClONCOS == s-incseseas coe One |

Botanical Garden
Corporation ‘of the city.................-.
Mercantile Library
Missouri Historical Society
Peabody Academy
Publie School Library
Saint Louis University
Washington University. -..22.222.-...2.-
WestlichemP ostt= sae esos cece ee ee
Warrensburgh :
State Normal School

NEBRASKA.
Lincoln:
State Library
Peru:
State Normal School

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Concord:
Historical Society
State Library
Hanover :

=
_

bo

| Or bow

to
ios)

ee

bo

iy
op)

Rite Or Oh ec -~] ~ o-

—

i a)
68 REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

List of consignees—Continued.

|

Recipients. res Recipients. ene
NEW HAMPSHIRE—Continued. NEW YORK—Continued.
Manchester: Hornellsville :
Crhyalibrary= ase scee see a\teeee eee ae Ty |Elibrary Associationyess)ace><.—eeceee 1
Portsmouth : Ithaca:
JQHII ESE Bae erdoeeerosocas SsaosaEdso = LU Cornelliiniversitye--esee jase eee eee 8
—_—— || New York City:
14 || American and Foreign Bible Society... .. 1
American Chenoa See ae Aeieerxisae Sete 9
: anki American Ethnological Society. -. a 6
ENR CEES American Geographical Society -- é 132
Hoboken : American, Institute: 222 o1s-e-2-e-seeeses 16
Stevens Institute of Technology..--.-..--. 13 || American Medical Journal....-...--.-..- 17
Newark: Anieric2>n Museum of Natural History... 16
Historical Society ---— 2. sssece-cccneseae 1 Astor diibrary so 55sec ac - noe eee 29
New Brunswick : |; Collegelofithecity 22-c-s.cee-esesee-eee 1
Geological Survey of New Jersey.--.-.--. 2 || College of Pharmacy-...-..-.---.--------- 1
Rutgers Collegete-se-scce-ceaecee seat eae 1 'Columibia| Collese ns. meme sien eee 2
Newton: | GheryayereOirrten) Oh ose ose aeS =o - cis! 1
Newton Library Association...........--- LO Drag gistsiCircnlarss 22h. cose sen eeeacerte 1
. Princeton: Engineering and Mining Journal -.-...-. 3
College of New Jersey.....-.-.---------- 13 || Geneaological Society ----....-....----.- 2
Green’s School of Science. --....---------- 13\\) HistoricaliSociety oss u eee soe cee eee 4
@Gbservyatonyees-oo ee Po eeeee saan seeeeee G) |) Journal of Chemistry s2s---s--sieeeee 1
Theological Seminary...-..---.--0:5--5---- Dn ienox ie tbratye se ccutars eee cise sn ae eae 1
Rahway: Medical Library and Journal Association 1k
iprary Associations scee~ oe eee eeee 1 ||aMedicaliRecorder *o-\s.---12- 12 -eoe seer 1
‘Trenton: Moercantilewdsibrary:.jssu-se. eee 3
SDALCVEN Dra yp erie cto oe are eta atone ental 1 || Military Service Institute -.........--.-. i
Natura History Society ts. $235 5-ce2seee 1
41 || New York Academy of Medicine.-.-...... 2.
—————— pbuh nore ences, pe ueueeee nen aa
Ke 2 | New York Belletristisches Journal ..-....
‘ STS AO Se || New York Society Library, ....s-t225-5 2
Albany: aN Gw: MOrkULimes’ sts jecc ses sescceneee 9
‘Adirondack SULVCVe sss. = cece sees ee eee 4"\ New, Mork Sribunels-t s-se-e=ee sm eeeees 1
PAU ani y NS LG OLE eerie eerie Low OPSOrVvaAtOry iy uses ee yao coe eee ue 15
Commissioners State Park... -..-...-.-2- PA School of Minesiese ae cer see eee eee ee 15
Duadley Observatory ss) aes see ee 327) Scientific American) sce ceeese eee 1
New York Medical Society.--.....-.------| 2 || Union Theological Seminary....-----..-. 2
Secretary, Of Stale se-se sess seers 21) Universit yot theleity etecnee- sass 2
State Agricultural Society....-....-.-.--- | 27 | United States Sanitary Commission ..... 5
StateiCabinet: 5 \7 2 jo cae a | 22 Poughkeepsie :
State Library.......... Se aes oe rere 76 || Society of Natural Sciences...... .-..--. 9
State Normal School-....2 ....------- Bee ic\pViessar © ollezexs cschee soem steece mee eae 4
Regents State Universities ........-.....- 14 || Rochester :
Alfred Centre: University.) essa seen ee Secnete steno 1
Al frediUiniversibysses- se ene es eee ace e il Schenectady :
Annandale: Wnion Collere .2- 2st cc sees cean. bere 3
St. Stephen’s College..-.....-.........---- 1 Syracuse:
Auburn: Central Eibrary:-.co-s-ee-s-)) seasceseee 1
Agricultural and Mechanics’ College... --| LS MWmiverstty- sos ee kee ese beee aes es 1
Bath: Troy:
iibrary, Association’ ..csesesccoeeseeecere | 1WiisMomaleySemimanyio-e-tecscesiee ane eee eaeet 1
Brooklyn: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute---..-... 1
Baker Collegiate Institute.....--...-.-.-- 1 || Young Men’s Association ..........-.-.- 1
Brooklyn duibrarys ve ses ses eescseeesee see 2 est Point:
Entomological Society 1 || United States Military Academy..-..-.-. 6
“ea Island Historical Society ...---..--- 2 —— =
uffalo : 797
Buffalo Practical School .-.-.------------ 3 SSS
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. .--.-- 75 NORTH CAROLINA.
Grosvenor Free Library .-..-.:-2.-.------ 1
North American Entomologist.....---.---| 1 Lenoir:
WoungiMen'sibrary-sseee seen eee eee 1 || Davenport Female College..--..-.---.--. 1
Canton: Raleigh :
Saint Lawrence University ........--...-- Va State laibrary. -c\sc tes eeieeee oan eee tH
Clinton: Trinity :
Hamilton Colleges: sso-s5sses- eee eso eee Tp io rainiivs COG lGn seca a senna ae 1
Litchfield Observatory......-.......------ 6 Warrenton:
Corning: Female Collegiate Institute. .....-..----- 1
Cormingslibrary) 2-02. sscnsss see sessien ee 1
lmira : 4
Young Men’s Christian Association ....-. 1 | ===
Fordham : |
St. Johnis'Colleves. os. << --ocinesacesese oe 1 OHIO.
Geneva: Ashtabula:
Hobart: Collegesass- sere’ a-s ase eee ee 1 || Anthropological Society.---...----.----- 2
Hamilton: Athens:
Madison University..........--..- re a 1 | Ohio! University; 2. ..0.6- sevice ieee a =m it

REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

69

List of consignees—Continued.

Pack-

Recipients. ages.

onio—Continued.

Cincinnati:
Cincinnati University.........-.-.---s0--
CincinnatiivVolksblatt..----. 5-22 --scescen=
Cincinnati Volkszeitung..-..------.------
Mercantile Librar
Mussey Medical
Observatory
TED VO) bea on easie ceca sCeae So aonceon
Society of Natural History.-...-...--..-..

Cleveland:
Oasenlbibratyessceeiee =e — ---eeee eine
Kirtland Society of Natural Sciences.-..-
Public School Library.---.-..-.---.---..--

Columbus:

Geological Survey of Ohio. -....-----------
State Board of Agriculture
State Horticultural Society..........-----
State Library
tate UmiVversiby-— 1. -—- ase nanbel omsemcls

Dayton:

Public Library Ls Ee eee mE ane

Delaware:

Wesleyan University ........-...-.-------

Fremont:

Barchard pha braryie a - setae

Gambier :
en yon@ollep rere se. onsenbona -kanniarselate

ranville:
Denison University---+..-....-----..-..-

Hiram :

Param iG Get Geena a cee aeeneacielcae nese

Hudson:

Western Reserve College. .-.--.----------

Lebanon:

Mechanics Anstitate.-<2<...5 56 -seee note

Marietta:

Marietta College.-......--.-.-1.-.--------
‘ Oberlin:
Oberlin Collegelesessens-ens-saeseae= coals

Painesville:

Lake Erie Female Seminary...-.-..-.---.----

Springfield
Te biel bi) ira ees omec sae oeeoencccHa rece .

Tiffin:

Heidelberg College.-.......-.---.-..--.---

Toledo:

LED UE Op Mia ep aeoeeonec se Coon eOSO One

Urbana:

Central Ohio Scientific Association....-...
Urbana University
Westerville:
Otterbein University......----.......-.---

Wooster:
Wooster University

Yellow Springs:
Antioch College

eee eee ee ee

w

a

=r
Be ee ee gp RR HHH RO ORR

Le a a oe cn ee

ry

Bee eS ee Oe

OREGON.

Forest Grove:

PACiiC UNVErAalby..2-<scceeeesscnee esses
Portland :

iibrary-A ssocistion..2-..--2.-S-c5sess<0
Salem :

State Library...... Sesheoeoe seasons ssce

PENNSYLVANIA.

Allegheny :
Observatory

Easton:
Institute of Mining Engineers-............
Lafayette College..-.-.....--.-------.----

ae Pack
R i
ecipients ages
PENNSYLVANIA—Continued.
Gettysburg:
Pennsylvania. College ... il
Theological Seminary 1
Harrisburg :
Geological Survey.-----.--.---------- 6
State ‘Library eas bclaviacsie wien eemeciats 3
Haverford :
Havertord Collecer-5------e-see= es p= 1
Lewisburg :
University of Lewisburg.----------.---- 1
Manstield :
State Normal School .:....-.-...----.--- 1
Meadville:
Theological Seminary-.--...------------ 1
Media :
Delaware County Institute of Science... 1
New Wilmington:
Westminister College......------------- 1
Philadelphia :
Academy of Natural Sciences..---..---. 299
American Entomological Society----.--- 46
‘American Journal of Conchology. -.--.- 5
AMOerICAN NaAtUTAIA tee. = 2 nee ase e ena 13
American Pharmaceutical Association. . 14
American Philosophical Satay ae erearte 195
Apprentices Wibrany) ----=-c-se. saa 1
PACH en cements see nama Be ice tein = en eae te 1
Board of Public Education.-.....-.------ 4
Board of Public Healthecs sess... o-e se 1
BOAO sOL Lad Os ens eel eaislsemese eons 3
Central Bich Schooli esas. ose seee =e 4
College of Pharmacy-_----.-.2<2...-.2.: 1
Corporation of the City.--..--.-.------- 1
Hwenin co bulletingseses-cs-+ esas ii
ramklinvlois big bess eie= ee eae ea crare aie 44
Geological Survey----- +22. -2-..=4=s-—= 2
German) Society c) secne ote sec ae 1
Historical Society of Pennsylvania. .--. 9
Library Association of Friends --------. 2
Eabrary, Company. --css-= = sa ecendecaae 4
Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory
of Girard College . --.-...-..--.--..-.- 5
IMediGalMDimes: cones eee sc eee oa tence 15
Mercantile Library Company.---..-.----- 2
Naturalists’ Leisure Hour.e--.-..--.---- 1
Numismatic and Archeological Society -- 1
Philadelphia Hospital..........-.-...... 2
Presbyterian Board of Publication... .. 1
University of Pennsylvania..-....-..--. 2
Wagner Free Institute.........--..--.- f 11
Zoolomcall Society. s2-e--=-4-se=neeeia= es 20
Pittsburg :
Mercantile Library.........-........-..- 1
Strathmore:
SbLssHMOre COMeres--- eee ne sesaneeas 1
- South Bethlehem : °
Bebreh WMiversityosssses- sess se wee 1
West Grove:
East Pennsylvania Experimental Farm. 1
/ 747
RHODE ISLAND. —=—
Newport:
Redirect IGT ET aySbocea Ba saceeega ne See 1
Providence:
PAN OMS MM nase ost. a elsiel wea ataatetent 2
IBIOW NU DLVOrsuyeso. ope len she ae oe 10
A StOniCal SOCIObY oe ae n-ne cave eeitaln = 3
INOrMaAlSChOOlessesa ssn csc,.2ne e< sone ene 1
PniplicOibrary ee. ete ance Casale a Sole | 1
Register of Births, etc.........-..--.---. 1
~ Woonsocket :
Harris Institute Library.--............- | 1
21
/

70 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

List of consignees—Continued.

Recipients.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston:
Elliot Society
Library Society

State Medical College

Columbia:
State Library. ..
State University

Due West:
Erskine College

Greenwich:

ene wee eee wee e ee eee econ:

Furman University.......---- ee teen

TENNESSEE.

Columbia:
Athenzum ...--
Hiawassee:

Hiawassee College. ..-....-.-...--..--.---

Jackson:

Southern Baptist University..-.--.--.----

Maryville:
Maryville Colleg
Memphis:

Opin ata fa ele mimi n allie calm lm (ele ele

Christian Brothers’ College-..---.--..--.-

Nashville :

School for the blind 32 eee eee eseier eco
University of Nashville..-...-..--....---
Vanderbilt University-...-....--.-....---

Austin :
Public Library -
Chapel Hill:

Soulé University 252-2925. 2-s522-- sees

UTAH.

Salt Lake City:
Umiversity of Deserebis-n..sssee--seteee

VERMONT.

Castleton :

Orleans County Society of Natural Sciences

Burlington:

Fletcher Free Public Library.........--.
University of Vermont..-.......--.------

Derby :

Society of
Montpelier:

Natural Sciences. ........------

Historical Society of Vermont.....--...--

State Library... -

Saint Johnsbury :

AST NENOU MN Soph eae oe as cone ea

VIRGINIA.

Blacksburg :

Agricultural and Mechanical College. .--..
Charlottesville:
WMiversit yiotpVanoinis s2sse6 sccm acteeses

Lexington:

Virginia Military Institute............-..
Washington and Lee University-.-...--.

New Market

Polytechnic Institute): 2-20-55 22s- see

Richmond:

Salem :
Roanoke College

Pack-
ages.

=

40

ae ee ee eS |

=
fo7]

Recipients.

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Seattle:
Territorial University........-.-:-------

WEST VIRGINIA:

Flemington :
West Virginia College. .............---..
Shepherdstown :
Shepherd College -22 aot se een aaene soneee
heeling : é
Natural History Society.....-..-...----.

WISCONSIN:

Appleton:

Lawrence University...---........------
Beloit: t

Geological Survey of Wisconsin.......-.
Janesville:

Wisconsin Institute for Educating the

Ring Boeseneceaecces oes eceeseeees

Madison :

Historical Society of Wisconsin..-.....-.

State Agricultural Society of Wisconsin
Washburn Observatory .........--------
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences..--..--.
Milwaukee:
Milwaukee Seebote ...--... seekseace spat
Naturhistorischer Verein.......-...---..
Public’ Library-2-- s-s2-< scsocsecedeeeecs
Racine:
Racine Collesesnmecicnsaacice as saeco

BRITISH AMERICA.

Chicoutini, Canada:

Canadian Naturalist2s2--.5-<<<e2---2-
Coburg, Canada:

Victoria University. .-....-.--.-.<. ..-..-
Guelph, Canada:

Ontario School of A griculture.........-.
Halifax, Nova Scotia:

Dalhousie! College sys sosss.. sense saree

Department of Mines-.......-..--.....--

Lepislative Dabraryeoo-cs- soe eee sone

Nova Scotia Institute of Natural Sciences)
Hamilton, Canada:

Scientific Association......----..-2.--2--
Kingston, Canada:

Botanical Society of Canada...-.-----.--.

Queen’s College.--- ......... Bee tenes
Montreal, Canada:

Canadian Medical and Surgical Journal.

Canadian Medical Record.-....-.-.--.---.---

Department of Public Instruction.....--.

Geological Survey of Canada..-.....-----

Historical (Societys =+-so----emenesseee as

L’Union Medical de Canada.........-.---

McGill’ Colleve: 2-2 22 fe sec et azecsieeaeis

Medical Association of Canada.-.-..--.-.-.

Natural History Society....-.------.----

Société d’Aipriculture. =~ =-).-s-c20..c2-eee

Société d’ Histoire Naturelle........-....
Ottawa, Canada:

Academy of Natural Sciences .--....--.--

Department of Agriculture. -.....---.--.

Geological Survey of Canada......------

legislative Library... -ccaseh=seme= eee

“ol ON Ot

i

co
RO Qe Hoe eco bd et ie a)
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 71

List of consignees.—Continued.

ane Pack- ae Pack-
Recipients. Aa Recipients. a a8 a
BRITISH AMERICA—Continued. BRITISH AMERICA—Continued.

Quebec, Canada: Library of the House of the Assembly. -- 1
Geographical Society .-........-----.---.-- 2 || Literary and Historical Society.--.--.--. 1
Historical and Natural History Society-. 4 || Magnetic Observatory-....-..-...------- a
WAV al NWONIVEISiby =~ sis ---c m= ee ceils ee ise 2) || Meteorolopical OMmcels =n... sce cie ns - a= 7
Le Naturalist Canadien. .......:.......... 2 Sone, HnistitOLe sess aeeeces eee eae 1
Literary and Historical Society. ---.-..... Sy eo DiGi nays ce a caieie se atlselsi==lninlomintci == 5
Literary and Philosophical Society.-.--.-- 1 || School of Practical Science. --.----.------ il
Parliamentary Library. --...-.-..-...--.-- PAP RorontowGlobGseeeoss cee = ec eae shee 1
Royal Avademy of Sciences.-..-......-.-. 10 ||) Fb aba y CMG eke no cesrone gee ssoscascss 1

Fredericton, New Brunswick: LORI CHT Ay 46 Soman aonh ceagessces= Pee 1
University of New Brunswick. --.....--..- 4 || University College Library..-...--.--.--- 7

St. Johns, New Brunswick: Windsor, Nova Scotia:

Legislative Library. --......-..--....----- 6 || University of King’s College....-.- foodies 1

St. Johns, Newfoundland : Winnipeg, Manitoba:

Geological Survey of Newfoundland...-.. 1 Sts chOhnis|Coleees t=. --ecc- n= cece en === 1

Toronto, Canada Wolfville, Nova Scotia:

Canadian Institute........-.-...--.....2. 41) || AcadiayCollege: - 2... 3c. -ecnn==nckmemn= 1
Canadian Journal of Medicine...--....-..- 1
Educational Department..-....--..-..--- 1 235
Entomological Society...-.....-...-....-- 4
General recapitulation.
RECEIPTS.
Boxes. | Parcels. | Books.
1, LOU Re Carer THI O) oc cde, po Gaps OUNOe o BECO ObEUo ce sEcne CHO lboouose aoc Tt GY Pe SSeS coe
HE SNOr domestic TRANSMISSION Ee eee sec sase scion cncicice + 2/5 eseo we -iyicls 111 15890) |b sac = set
I. For government exchanges--.-.-.. Be eee oe Sv cbs csicscenscemses ess oapaes cinelosce seas, ne 15, 550
EMotal ees tes eciacee eA Pens woh s aE eat oe = tee a ae iit) |) 23/051 15, 550
TRANSMISSIONS.
Te Rovestabhishments| abroad <= -eeoce seme meter emcee escce seen ce ne
Il. To home institutions and individuals 8, 433
IIL. To foreign governments.-....-...-.---

SUN eam ee at oN SI ey Lear ee Rt ee a ee Nore Pet Aa 407 8, a 15, 550

3.—EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In 1868 Congress passed a resolution establishing a system of gov-
ernment exchanges under the charge of the Librarian of Congress, who
invited the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution by placing the
management of this system in the hands of the Secretary.

- A large quantity of public documents having accumulated at the In-
stitution, it became necessary, in October, 1574, to address a circular to
a number of governments, explaining the object of such a system of
exchanges and inviting their co-operation.

The governments to whom this proposition was made were those of:
Argentine Republic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, Den-
mark, France, German Empire, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii,Italy,
Hayti, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Salvador,
Spain, Sweden and Norway, Turkey, United States of Colombia, and
Venezuela.
Ta ’ REPORT

ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

In accordance with the instructions received by the Institution in
response, the following distribution of documents was made in 1875:

Portugal
Sweden
Brazil

Cases, Cases.
snosesaceseosas 6) Argentine Republics. oe oe. eceenmecees 6
Sebs an Sus ceee 6 | Belpinm : 2452542 Se sae oeace wae sersen 6
vet anaen ease Gi) Chile secs bos bas Re ee Geasemiles sees 6
See Soe. & G))|) Mexicojcs et ee sea get eee ees dee 6
Boleta tana stometele 6

These governments have successively been supplied with the continua-
tions, and at present, full sets of fifteen boxes have been delivered to the
following named governments or their official agents, as specified in

the following table:

Governments in exchange with the United States Government.

Governments.

Establishments designated for the reception of government exchanges.

Argentine Confederation. -
Bavarias-c2s-se-es-
Belgium.
Brazile. ese
Buenos Aires --
Canadarsates, 2 oninneee teers

France
Germanvrssee- tee cee nee
Great Britaimetoo.-seseeeee

New South Wales.........
New yZealand 25.22. -cccn 5
INOT Ways crt-se n= tee eeeeo een
Rontupale =. asaeo-c aon ae
IPTHSSIAveoe cheer cee eee
Queensland--...
WRussia-= =. =
HaXONiyi- sb seecsesccke cen
South ATISTPM Bese sees ae

eee te come eee ccwccce

UTR OY Ses. aaso cece seco ek
IWene7znelaese ee Me a

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Aires.
K6nigliche Bibliothek, Munich.
Bibliothéque Royal, Brussels.
Government, Rio Janeiro.

Government of Buenos Aires.
Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.
Legislative Library, Toronto.

Museo Nacional, Santiago.

Koninklicke Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Government and departments, Paris.
Reichstag Bibliothek, Berlin.

British Museum, London.

Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
Sécrétaire d’Etat des Rélations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Bibliotheque Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio.
Government, Mexico.

Library of the States General, The Hague.
Parliamentary Library, Sydney.
Parliamentary Library, Wellington.
Foreign Oftice, Christiania.

Government, Lisbon.

KG6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.
Government, Brisbane.

Government, St. Petersburg.

Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden.
Government, Adelaide.

Government, Madrid,

Government, Stockholm.

Government, Berne.

Parliamentary Library, Hobarton.
Government, Constantinople.

University Library, Caracas.

Public Library. Melbourne.

Kénigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart.

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 13

Shipping agents of government exchange.

Country.

Agent.

Argentine Confederation..| Carlos Carranza, consul general, New York.
IBGVANIB Soave ses oseace eos e wn
ISTE Rec dee hO sO Soe aC One

North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.

White Cross Line, Funch, Edye & Co., and Red Star Line, P. Wright &
Sons, New York.

Charles Mackall, vice-consul, Baltimore.

Carlos Carranza, consul-general New York.

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.

C. DeCastro, consul-general, New York.

Henrick Braem, consul-general, New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, L. de Bébian, New York.
North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.
North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.

D. W. Botassi, consul-general, New York.

Atlas piraenty Company, Pim, Forwood & Co., New York.
M. Raffo, consul-general, New York.

Samro Takaki, consnl-general, New York.

Juan N. Navarro, consul-general, New York.

Netherlands ..---...- R. C. Burlage, consul-general, New York.

New South Wales R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

New Zealand .............- R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

INOEWSY~<-~---52- ee ae Christian Bors, consul-general, New York.

JEON See gee sseenaene Gustav Amsink, consul-general, New York.

IPRiBsidie cee ose tee ee acne ae North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.
Queensland ...-.-.---.----- North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.

SSI oe eons ono Hamburg-American Packet Company, Kunhardt & Co., New York.
Sixonyroscsee ees ev eea see North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore. :
South Australia ........... R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Ginn Se aSe See sae mee Hipolito de Uriarte, consul-general, New York.
SWEOGNYscsce sec eeeciee ee Christian Bors, consul-general, New York.

Switzerland. --2.-.-.-....-. North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.
JSS See cegonecseges North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.
RUT ECV een eee eee ee Turkish Legation, Washington, D.C.

VIENOZUCIA «suite ones enc lSe. G. de Garmendia, consul-general, New York.

RAGIN en Ree peeserAeee ae R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Wiirtemberg.....- Math aa tem North German Lloyd, A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore.

74 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. .

LIST OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS AND OTHER OFFICIAL PUBLICA-
TIONS DISTRIBUTED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO FOREIGN
GOVERNMENTS DURING THE YEAR 1881.

Agricultural Department.

Apportionment under the Tenth Census. 8vo. Paper.
Special reports for 1880, Nos. 24-27, 29, 30. 8vo. Paper.
Special reports for 1881, Nos. 31-33, 35-39. 8vo. Paper.

Board of Health.

Bulletin, vol. 2. Nos. 1-52 and index. 4vo. Paper.
Supplements, Nos. 5-14. 4vo. Paper.
Bulletin, vol. 3. Nos. 1-15. 4vo. Paper.

Centennial exhibition.
Report of the commission, 9 vols. 8vo. Cloth.

United States Congress.

Executive documents :
Third session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
First session Forty-sixth Congress. Nos. 1-11. 8vo. Sheep.
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 3, 9, 16, 17, 23, 25, 26.
8vo. Sheep.
Congressional Record:
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vol. 10 and index. 4vo. Half
Russia.
Third session Forty-sixth Congress. 4vo. Half Russia.
Congressional Directory :
Third session Forty-sixth Congress, first and second editions. 8vo.
Paper.
First session Forty-seventh Congress. 8vo. Paper.
Memorial addresses :
Zachariah Chandler. 8vo. Cloth.
Beverly B. Douglass. 8vo. Cloth.
Julian Hartridge. 8vo. Cloth.
Gustave Schleicher. 8vo. Cloth.
Alpheus 8. Williams. 8vo. Cloth.
Alfred M. Lay. 8vo. Cloth.
Rush Clark. 8vo. Cloth.
-~l
Or

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES,

House of Representatives :
Constitutional Manual, second session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo.
Half Russia.
House documents, third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. x. 8vo.
Sheep.
House miscellaneous :
Third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol.3. S8vo. Sheep.
First session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 2-5. pe Sheep.
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols.1,2,5,5. Svo. Sheep.
House journals, second session Forty-sixth Gates Svo. Sheep.
House reports:
Third session Forty-fifth Congress, eit 1. 8vo. Sheep.
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vol. 6. Svo. Sheep.
United States Senate:
A compilation of questions of order and decisions thereon. 8vo.
Paper.
Constitution of the United States with the amendments thereto.
S8vo. Paper.
Senate documents:
Third session Forty-fifth Congress, vol. 4. 8vo. Sheep.
First session Forty-sixth Congress, No. 37. 8vo. Sheep.
Second session Forty-sixth Congress, vols. 2,4. 8vo. Sheep.
Senate journal:
Second session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
Third session Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
Senate miscellaneous :
Second session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
Third session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
Senate reports:
Third session Forty-fifth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.
First and second sessions Forty-sixth Congress. 8vo. Sheep.

Court of Claims.

Cases decided in the Court of Claims at the December term, 1879, vol.
15. 8vo. Paper.

Department of the Interior.

Catalogue of the library of the Interior Department. 4to. Paper.
tegister of the department, August, 1880. Svo. Paper.
Supplement to the catalogue of the library, November 8, 1879. 8vo.
Paper.
Bureau of Education:
Circulars of information. 8vo. Paper:
Instruction in chemistry and physics.
The spelling reform.
76 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Bureau of Education—Continued.
Relation of education to industry.
Proceedings National Education Association.
Education and crime.
Library aids.
The discipline of the school.
Education in China and Siam.
Educational tours in France.
Industrial education in Europe.
General Land Office :
Survey of public lands and private land claims. 8vo. Paper.
Instructions to Surveyors General. 8vo. Paper.
Circulars :
“‘ How to obtain title to public lands.” 8vo. Paper.
*¢ Deposits on account of surveys.” S8vo. Paper.
Rules of practice, approved December 20, 1880. 8vo. Paper.
Board of Indian Commissioners :
Twelfth annual report for the year 1880. S8vo. Paper.
Office of Indian Affairs:
Instruction to Indian agents, revised October 1, 1880. 8vo. Paper.
United States Geological Survey of the Territories :
Bulletin, vol. vi, Nos. 1 and 2. S8vo. Paper.
Bulletin, vol. v, No. 4. 8vo. Paper.
Miscellaneous publication, No. 12, North American Pinnipeds. 8vo.
Paper.
United States Entomological Commission :
Bulletin No. 6. 8vo. Paper.
Second report on the Rocky Mountain locust. S8vo. Paper.
United States Patent Office:
Decisions of the Commissioner for 1879. 8vo. Paper.
Decisions of the Commissioner for 1880. 8vo. Paper.
Statutes and rules relating to the registration of trade-marks and
labels. 8vo. Paper.
Patent laws, February, 1881, 8vo. Paper.
Rules of practice, revised September 1, 1880. 8vo. Paper.
United States National Museum:
Proceedings of the National Museum, vol. 3. S8vo. Paper.
Bulletins Nos. 17 and 21. 8vo. Paper.
United States Pension Office:
General Instructions to Special Examiners. S8vo. Paper.
United States Surveys of the Rocky Mountain Regions:
Geology of the Black Hills of Dakota, 4 vols., and atlas.
Geology of the High Plateau of Utah, 4 vols., and atlas.
Yellowstone National Park:
Annual report of the superintendent for 1880. 8vo. Paper.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. (|

Department of Justice.
Attorney-General :
Official Opinions of the Attorney-General of the United States,
vols. xv and xvi. S8vo. Paper and sheep.

Navy Department.

Register of the Officers of the Navy, Marine Corps, ete. :

June 1, 1880. Svo. Paper.

January, 1881.

July, 1881.
Circular No. 13. 4to. Paper. E
Bureau of Constraction and Repair:

Allowances established under the bureau, 1881. 4to. Paper.
Bureau of Equipment:

Allowances established under the bureau, 1880. 4to. Paper.
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery :

Information and Guidanee, Jeanette Expedition. 8vo. Paper.

Report on Yellow Fever in the U. 8.8. Plymouth. 8vo. Paper.
Naval Academy : ‘

Annual Register, 1880-81. 8vo. Paper.

Catalogue of Specimens added to the Cabinet. Svo. Paper.
Bureau of Navigation, Hydrographic Office :

American Practical Navigator. 8vo. Sheep.

Arctic Azimuth Tables. 8vo. Paper.

Charts and Plans published and withdrawn, March 31, 1881. 8vo.

Paper.

Charts and Plans published and withdrawn, June 30, 1581. 8vo.
Paper.

Hydrographic Notices for 1880 and 1881, and Index for 1831. Svo.
Paper.

Lists of Lights:
Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific Coasts of the United States. 8vo.
Paper.
Coast of Africa. 8vo. Paper.
East and West Coasts of North and South America. Svo. Paper.
South Coasts ef Asia and Africa. 8vo. Paper.
New Lights, United States and South America. 8vo. Paper.
Notices to Mariners for 1880 and 1881. 8vo. Paper.
Sailing Directions for Kattegat Sound, ete. 8vo. Paper.
Nautical Almanae Office :
Astronomical papers prepared for the use of Nautical Almanac.
4to. Paper.
American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac:
1882. 8vo. Paper.
1883. 8vo. Paper.
1884. 8vo. Paper.
Gauss’ method of computing secular perturbations, etc. 8vo. Paper.
78 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Bureau of Steam Engineering:
Experiments on relative merits of screw propellers. S8vo. Paper.
Report on the Herreshof system of Motive Machinery. 8vo. Paper.
Report on the Machinery of the “‘ Anthracite.” 8vo. Paper.
Report on the Standard Gauge for Bolts, Nuts, and Screw-threads.

8vo. Paper.
Post-Office Department.

List of Post-offices of the United States, February 1, 1881.
Bulletin, City Post-Office, Washington, D. C., 1881. 8vo. Paper.

Smithsonian Institution.
Bureau of Ethnology :

Collection of Gesture Signs. 4to. Paper.
Study of Mortuary Customs. 4to. Paper.

Department of State.

Commercial Relations of the United States :

No. 2, November, 1880. 8vo. Paper.

No. 3, January, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

No. 4, February, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

No. 5, March, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

No. 6, April, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

No. 7, May, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

No. 8, June, 1881, and index. 8vo. Paper.

No. 9, July, 1881. S8vo. Paper.

No. 10, August, 1881. 8vo. Paper.
Register of the Department of State, December, 1880. S8vo. Paper.
Result of Investigation ‘‘ American Pork.” S8vo. Paper.
Regulations for the use of the Consular Service. 8vo. Paper.

Treasury Department.

United States Coast Survey :
Atlantic Coast Pilot, Boston to New York. 8vo. Paper.
Deep-sea Soundings and Dredgings on Board the United States
Coast Survey Steamer Blake. 4to. Paper.
Methods and Results; general properties of the equations of steady
motion. 4to. Paper.
Tide Tables :
For the Atlantic Coast, 1881. S8vo. Paper.
For the Atlantic Coast, 1882. 8vo. Paper.
For the Pacific Coast, 1881. Svo. Paper.
For the Pacific Coast, 1882. 8vo. Paper.
Light-House Board:
Annual report for the year 1880. 8vo. Paper.
Laws and regulations relating to the Light-House Establishment
of the United States. 8vo. Paper.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES, 19

Bureau of Statistics :

Merchant Vessels of the United States. 8vo. Paper.

Classification of imports entered for consumption in the United
States, July 1, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

Quarterly reports relative to the imports, exports, immigration,
and navigation of the United States, Nos.2and 3. Svo. Paper.

Summary statements of the imports and exports of the United
States, Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, for 1880-’81, and No. 1, for 1881-82.

| 4to. Paper.
Life-Saving Service:

Annual report for the year ending June 30,1880. 8vo. Paper.
Bureau of the Mint:

General instructions and regulations in relation to the transaction
of business at the mints and assay offices of the United States.
8vo. Paper.

Internal Revenue Office :
Internal Revenue Laws. 8vyo. Paper.
Inspector-General of Steam Vessels:

Annual report to the Secretary of the Treasury for the year ending

June 30, 1880. 8vo. Paper.
Marine Hospital Service:

Annual report of the Supervising Surgeon-General for the fiscal

year 1880. 8vo. Paper. ’ .
Board of Supervising Inspectors of Steam Vessels:

Proceedings of special meeting of the board, May, 1880. 8vo.
Paper.

Proceedings of the twenty-ninth annual meeting of the board,
January, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

War Department.

Official Army Register, January, 1881. 8vo. Paper.

Notes illustrating the military geography of the United States.
8vo. Paper.

Articles of War governing the armies of the United States. S8vo.
Paper.

The War of the Rebellion: A compilation of the official records
of the Union and Confederate armies. Series 1, vols. 1 and 2.
8vo. Cloth and paper.

Adjutant-General’s Office :

General orders for the year 1880 (in part). Svo. Paper.

General orders for the year 1881 (in part). Svo. Paper.

Orders (general courts-martial) for the year 1880 (in part). S8vo.
Paper.

Orders (general courts-martial) for the year 1881 (in part). 8vo.
Paper.
80 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Engineer Bureau :
Catalogue of the library of the Engineer Department. 8vo. Paper.
Decrease of water. Translation of a lecture. 8vo. Paper.
Geological exploration of the forty-fifth parallel. (C. King), vol.
vii. Odontothornites. 4to. Cloth.
Improvement of the Danube at Vienna. Translation of lectures.
8vo. Paper.
Lists of reports and maps of the United States geographical sur-
veys west of the one hundredth meridian. (Capt. George M._
Wheeler in charge.) 8vo. Paper.
List of maps etc., sent to the Geographical Congress at Venice.
8vo. Paper.
Notes on the Pointe de Grave, Gironde River, France. 8vo. Paper.
The water jet as an aid to engineering. 8vo. Paper. :
Judge-Advocate-General :
Digest of Opinions with notes. 8yvo. Paper.
United States Military Academy :
Annual Report for the year 1880. '8vo. Paper.
Blasting or military mining. 8vo. Paper.
Military Railroads:
Orders issued during the years 1861-1866. S8vo. Paper.
Quartermaster-General :
Transportation of troops over the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fé
Railroads in 187576. 8vo. Paper.
United States Signal Office :
Daily bulletin of the weather reports:
July 18,1877. 4to. Paper.
August, 1877. 4to. Paper.
September, 1877. 4to. Paper.
Rains and dry winds. 8vo. Paper.
Surgeon-General’s Office:
Index catalogue of the library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, vols.
land 2. 4to. Cloth.
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, FOR THE YEAR 1881.

Prof. SPENCER F’. BArRpD,
Director United States National Museum:

Str: In compliance with your instructions, I submit a report upon
the present condition of the National Museum, and upon the work ac-
complished in its various departments during the year 1881.

On the Ist of July, letters of appointment were issued by you to all
the officers and employees of the Museum, and at this time I was assigned.
to duty as executive officer of the Museum and curator of the depart-
ment of arts and industries. The new building was not, however, ready
for occupation until October, and the work of the year must be regarded.
as having been almost entirely of a preliminary nature. Owing to the
fact that the work of reorganization was begun so late in the year, and.
that the curators of several departments did not enter upon their duties
until autumn, it has been found impossible to present a special report
from each department. It is respectfully suggested that in future the
report of the assistant director shall relate to the work of the adminis-
trative department and other matters directly under his supervision,
and that the operations of the departments be reported by the several
directors in charge.

Very respectfully,
G. BRowN GOODE,
Assistant Director.
March 1, 1882.

Periods in the history of the Museum.—The history of the National Mu-
seum may be divided into three periods: First, that from the foundation
of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during which time specimens
were collected purely and solely to serve as materials for research, no
special efforts being made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize
them except as a foundation for scientific description and theory. See-
ond, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of
the “ National Cabinet of Curiosities,” to 1876. During this period the
Museum became a place of deposit for scientifie material, which had
already been studied, this material, so far as convenient, being exhib-
ited to the public, and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa-
tional purpose. Third, the present peried, beginning in the year 1876,
in which interval the Museum has entered upon a career of active work,
in gathering collections and exhibiting them on account of their educa-
tional value.

In the first period, the main object of the Museum was scientific re-

S. Mis. 109 —6 -
82 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM

search; in the second, the establishment became a museum of record
as well as of research; while in the third period is growing up the
idea of public education. As soon as the material already within the
walls of the Museum ean be displayed in accordance with the plan
already perfected, the National Museum of the United States will have
commenced to fulfill all the demands which are likely ever to be made
upon it.

Museums for Record, for Research, and for Education.—These three,
co-operative and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to the de-
velopment of any comprehensive and philosophically organized museum.
Materials are gathered together that they may serve as a basis for
scientific thought. Objects, which have served as a foundation for sci-
entific study, or which, from their historical significance, are treasured
up and preserved from destruction that they may serve purposes ‘of
record, permanent land-marks of the progress of the world in thought,
in culture, or in industrial achievement; not only are they records of
what has been done in the past, but they constitute the most valuable
of all materials for future study. The museum of record, then, is not
only an accessory to the museum of research, but an adjunct which
accomplishes similar and fully equal results in the same direction.

The contents of the museum of research and the museum of record,
if no other objects are sought but those already mentioned, might with-
out impropriety be stored away in vaults and cabinets, inaccessible to
any except the specialist. To give them their highest value, however,
they should be arranged in such a manner that hundreds of thousands
of people should profit by their examination instead of a very limited
number, and that they should afford a means of culture and instruction
to every person, young or old, who may have opportunity to visit the
place in which they are preserved.

The Museum of Record is, in part, a necessary result of the museum
of research, but its ultimate origin can without doubt be recognized at
a very much earlier period in the treasure-houses of monarchs, such as
are found recorded in the histories of very early days. The treasure-
house of King Ahasuerus was one of the earliest museums, and the pal-
ace of Ptolemy at Alexandria was a prototype of the modern museum
of art and industry. With the growth of republican ideas, treasures of
this description have became national museums—as in the case of the
museums of Saxony, Bavaria, Italy, France, and other European na-
tions—which are in the main made up of materials which in former
days were kept within the walls of palaces and were inaccessible to the
public. Ecclesiastical edifices, too, have always been depositories for
works of art and curious manufacture. The temples of Athens, Ephesus,
and Delphi were art-museums, and so are many European churches of
to-day. Withthe growth of liberal government, more liberal and compre-
hensive ideas as to the use and value of such materials have sprung
up, and they are now recognized to be the property of the people of the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 83

nation. Private individuals have often devoted themselves to the ac-
cumulation of collections which, either by design or in obedience to a
natural law recognized and sometimes expedited by museum ofiicers,
have found a resting-place in public halls. The Ashmolean Museum
at Oxford was the result of Sir John Tradescant’s life-long toil.

The Museum of Research seems to have originated within the last three
or four centuries, and, perhaps, to have been one of the results of the
promulgation of the inductive philosophy. The collections gathered by
Linneus, those of Sir Hans Sloane, which formed the nucleus of the
British Museum, and of Buffon, Cuvier, and their collaborators, as a
beginning of the Natural History Museum of Paris, were among the
earliest of this class.

The Educational Museum is of much more recent origin, and may be
considered as one of the outgrowths of the modern industrial exhibition.
The World’s Fair of London in 1851, the first of a long series of inter-
national exhibitions, was utilized by the Government of Great Britain as
a starting-point for a number of national and educational museums, the
most perfect which have as yet been organized, and the subsequent
World’s Fairs have been utilized in a similar manner, so that nearly
every civilized country now has museums of this description.

The systematic exhibition of the products of the earth and the achieve-
ments of human industry for the instruction of visitors, the improve-
ment of the public taste, and the fostering of arts of design had not
been attempted, probably scarcely thought of, thirty-two years ago.

The gradual deterioration of industrial exhibitions and World’s Fairs,
the predominance of purely commercial features in those which have
been attempted of late years, the growing difficulty in securing the at-
tendance of exhibitors would seem to indicate that their period of
greatest usefulness is in the past.

The present demand is for something better, more systematic, more
definitely instructive in its aims—something which shall afford the same
long vistas into the palaces of nature and art, and at the same time pro-
vide guide-marks to explain their meaning.

Effects of the Centennial Exhibition of 1876.—One of the results of the
Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876 is that it made plain to the people of
the United States the educational importance of a great industrial
museum. It suggested to the observant the thought that if so much
that is inspiring and instructive could be imparted by a collection of
objects gathered together chiefly with commercial ends in view on the
part of the exhibitors, necessarily somewhat unsystematically arranged,
and with little effort toward labeling in an instructive manner, an im-
mense field was open for educating the public by gathering together a
selected series of similar objects, which could be so classified and ex-
plained by means of labels and guide-books that they should impart a
consistent and systematic idea of the resources of the world and of
human achievement.
84 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The United States has, as yet, no comprehensive educational museum,
although there are several museums of limited scope, which have suc-
cessfully carried out the educational idea in the arrangement of their
materials; for instance, the Boston Museum of Art, the Metropolitan
Museum of Artin New York, the Pennsylvania Museum of Industrial Art,
the Peabody Museumof Archeology in Cambridge, the Peabody Museum
of Yale College, and the Boston Society of Natural History.

The same remark applies with equal force to the museums of Europe.
There are certain institutions, like the Museum of Practical Geology,
the museums of the Royal College of Surgeons, the museums at Bethnal
Green and South Kensington, in London, the Museum of Industrial Art
at Berlin, the Ethnological Museum at Leipsic, the National Museum
of Germany at Nuremburg, the Bavarian National Museum at Munich,
and others, which have admirably carried out a single idea, or a limited
number of ideas, and which are marvelously rich in material and ar-
ranged in a manner full of suggestiveness. It may safely be said, how-
ever, that all the museums of anthropology, economy, and industrial art
now in existence are, either by design or chance, limited in their scope.

The museum is yet to be organized which shall show, arranged ac-
cording to one consistent plan, the resources of the earth and the results
of human activity in every direction. This has not yet been done, even
tor a single country.

There can be little question that the National Museum of the United
States can be made, in the course of a few years, the most comprehen-
sive and instructive museum in the world. While it may not be pos-
sible to gather together such treasures of art and industry as are in the
possession of the government museums of Europe, it is not unreasonable
to hope that examples of every kind of object known to man may be
acquired, and that this museum may be able, by means of a thorough
classification, and as a result of the absence of the enormous masses of
duplicates, which are sure to incumber any old museum, to illustrate
the history of human culture better than has ever before been done.

The educational museum being, as has been already remarked, of com-
paratively recent origin, and the efforts of thoughtful men in times past
having been chiefly directed toward the building up of museums of re-
search, it is not at all strange that natural-history museums should be so
common, while museums illustrating the history of mankind are so
rare. The importance of the natural history museum from the stand-
points of science and industry can scarcely be overrated. A museum
of culture must, however, be admitted to possess equal importance to
the philosopher and to be of greater value for the education of the pub-
lic at large.

The majority of visitors to any museum go thither in search of amuse-
ment, or from a mere idle curiosity. Many have no desire to gain in-
struction, and most of those, if actuated by such a desire, fail to accom-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 85

plish their object by avisit to the ordinary museum. This is due, in part,
to the fact that so much duplicate material is exhibited that the really
instructive objects are lost to view; in part, to the fact that the objects
in but few museums are labeled in a really instructive manner, and prin-
cipally to the fact that the objects exhibited are not of the kind best
adapted to the needs of the museum-visiting public. The visitors carry
away only a general impression of rooms full of glass cases containing
animals, minerals, or ‘‘ curiosities,” gathered by travelers among unciy-
ilized races. Professor Huxley has defined a museum as “a consulta-
tive library of objects”; and this definition, true enough in itself as a
description of the best ideal museums, unfortunately is too true a de-
scription of all. Most museums are as useless and little instructive as
are our libraries of consultation to the great masses of our people, who
know not how to use them. The educational museum should be more
like a popular encyclopedia than like a library full of learned tomes.
The museum of research, since it is intended chiefly for investigators,
should be the consultative library.

To obviate these difficulties many steps must be taken which are not
usual in museums. By far the most important of these is in the direc-
tion of thorough labelling.

An efficient educational museum, from one point of view, may be
described as a collection of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-
selected specimen.

There is a certain peril in the attempt to build up a museum upon this
basis. Museums which exhibit only such objects as are in themselves
beautiful or marvellous cannot fail to be attractive, no matter how poorly
the objects are arranged and labelled.

When, however, the objects depend for their interest upon the ex-
planations or the labels, and upon the manner in which they are placed,
relatively to each other, a responsibility a hundred-fold greater is en-
tailed upon the curators. The materials of such a museum may be com-
pared to piles of brick, stone, lumber, and architectural ornaments, which
by themselves possess little apparent interest, but which may by thought
and labor be combined into an imposing and useful edifice.

Principles to be followed.—Certain cardinal principles may be an-
nounced which should be considered in the arrangement of every pub-
lic museum: (I) every article exhibited should illustrate an idea, and
no two objects should be shown which ilustrate the same idea in a
similar manner; (II) the idea which any object is intended to illustrate
should be explained upon its label in such a manner that any intelli-
gent visitor, without previous special knowledge of the subject, may be
able to learn (a4) why the object is shown, and (b) what lesson it is in-
tended to teach; (IIL) the objects should be so carefully classified that
their relations to each other may be recognized by the visitor, so that,
taken together, they suggest certain general conclusions; in the forma-
tion of these conclusions he should be aided by certain general or col
86 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

lective labels which relate to and describe groups of objects in a manner
similar to that in which the individual labels describe separate articles;
(1V) the labels individual and collective, should be supplemented by
guide-books and manuals for special departments, which shall contain
all the information given upon the labels arranged systematically, and
which shall be illustrated by engravings of the more important objects.

Industrial museums, as a rule, exhibit only those articles which are
designed and constructed in the most sumptuous manner—the armor of
kings and knights, the furniture of palaces, the most artistic of metal
work, stone work, and wood work. The ethnological museums, on the
other hand, admit only the implements and costumes of savage and
partially civilized races. Between the two there is a great chasm to be
filled. Is it not as important to preserve in museums the more humble
and simple objects which illustrate the domestic economy and customs
of the masses of the people of civilized nations, as to search for similar
objects in distant lands, or to treasure up only the objects which, on
account of their cost, are seen and used only by the most wealthy and
luxurious classes in the civilized community? A museum which at-
tempts to show the evolution of civilization, should preserve the simplest
products, the every-day costumes, together with the tools and appliances
which have been in common use by civilized man in the present and
past centuries.

Such objects have at least as much claim to careful preservation as
similar objects gathered in distant lands; for, although the latter are
at present more interesting on account of their strangeness, a century
hence they will be far less interesting than the objects which are in
common use in our own country at the present day.

It has long been one of the standard instructions given to persons
charged with collecting specimens for the Smithsonian Institution, that,
in whatever locality they may be, they shall collect the more diligently
those things which are most common, paying but very little attention
to objects which may there be very rare, since these same objects are
sure to be common in some other locality, where they can be obtained
with greater ease. A similar practice should be followed in gathering
objects for an industrial museum. American ethnologists have done
well in devoting their energy to gathering the manufactures of the
North American Indian, for the products of their race would otherwise
have been, for the most part, lost to mankind. At the same time, much
that is of equal or greater importance belonging to our own ancestors
has been allowed to go to destruction; and we have but few illustrations
of the costumes and customs of the two preceding centuries of Ameri-
can history, except such as are preserved in books and pictures.

To supply the place of objects too large to be placed in a musuem, too
evanescent to have been preserved, or which, on account of their rarity
or neglect in preserving them at the time when they could have been
obtained, are necessarily lacking in the collections, it is essential that
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 87

museums should assume the administration of great quantities of mate-
rial such as is usually consigned to the library or to the picture-gallery.
Otherwise, deficiencies in groups of objects, which should illustrate by
their collective meaning a general idea, will much impair their value.
Pictures and diagrams should be freely used as temporary or permanent
substitutes for specimens which may be lacking, and also to supplement
and explain the descriptive labels. Im many sections it may be impossi-
ble to exhibit anything but pictures. It is needless to point out the
difference in the influence of a series of plates, like those, for instance,
in Audsley and Bowes, ‘‘ Keramic Art in Japan,” the publications of the
Arundel Society, or in Watson’s work on “The People of India,” dis-
played in a public museum, where they are seen daily by thousands of
visitors, or hidden except from the initiated few in a library, where they
are accessible practically to students only with abundance of time and
training in the use of books.

Much of the material usually shown in art galleries and art museums,
such as is ordinarily used to illustrate the history of art, or is preserved
on account of its artistic suggestions, may be displayed in a much more
instructive manner in amusuem without in the least lessening its value
to the artist or designer. Portraits, pictures of buildings, of costumes,
of geological features in scenery, of ceremonies, and of social customs
may be arranged and administered just as if they were specimens. It
is even desirable to exhibit in the cases with the specimens books re-
lating to their history; for it is useful to familiarize the public with the
appearance of their bindings and types. For instance, a collection of
the standard works on numismaties, shown in a case adjoining a collec-
tion of coins, would have a decided educational value, giving to the
public information which they would otherwise have to seek from the
curators, if indeed it would appear to them worth while to take the
trouble to seek such information, or they should succeed in overcoming
the natural hesitation to become questioners. In addition, much might
be accomplished by having standard works, relating to the special
departments of the museum, placed in convenient places in the exhibition
halls, and, if necessary, fastened to desks in such a manner that they
could not be removed, while easily accessible to any person who might
wish to become informed upon special topics relating to objects being
examined.

The International Exhibition of 1876 was the beginning of a new pe-
riod of activity for the National Museum. Before 1876 no money had
been expended in the increase of the collections. In 1875, however,
Congress voted certain sums, to be expended under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, for the illustration of the animal and mineral
resources of the United States; under the direction of the Fish Commis-
sion, for the display of the fishery resources of the country; and under
88 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

the direction of the Indian Bureau and the Smithsonian, for the illustra-
tion of the ethnology of the aborigines of North America. At this timea
great quantity of valuable material was obtained which, in connection with
material borrowed from the National Museum, served to carry out very
thoroughly the desire of Congress in making the appropriation. At the
same time the Museum became possessed of a large portion of the indus-
trial exhibits of some thirty foreign governments which participated in
the exhibition of 1876, and since that time very important additions and
contributions have been received from private exhibitors, American and
foreign, of materials shown by them in the same exhibition, and in the
so-called permanent exhibition, which was its temporary successor.

The new building, which was put up expressly for the reception of
these collections, has proved to be so well adapted for the reception of
a great industrial Museum, that many manufacturers and commercial
houses have been induced to contribute materials for its expansion, and
there is every prospect that the Museum will develop into one of the
most perfect and comprehensive of its class.

This Museum being by law the only legal depository for all objects
of art, and of all objects of natural history, and of all geological and
ethnological specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong, to the United
States, or gathered by any branch of the public service, and being by
law and by inheritance the successor of the National Cabinet of Curiosities
and of the National Institution, the only similar establishments which
have ever existed in the United States, and having, after a quarter of a
century, been sustained by annual appropriations from Congress, would
seem to be entitled to the hearty support of the government in its efforts
to gain an honorable place among the National Museums of the world,
and, if possible, to surpass them in completeness and attractiveness.

It is hoped that in the future the public spirit of many citizens of the
United States will lead to the deposit in the National Museum of many
of the extensive private collections now so rapidly increasing through-
out the country in number and extent.

It should be the aim of the officers of the Museum to encourage such
deposits, by using the most thorough and painstaking methods in in-
stalling and caring for the specimens under their charge.

Mr. Barnet Phillips, discussing in the New York Times. the future
prospects of the Museum, writes:

“Tt does not, of course, behoove a great national enterprise of the
character I have tried to describe to play the part of a solicitor, nor can
it go from collector to collector and beg for contributions for its cases.
Still, without directly asking such an enlightened mass of people as our
own, it counts a great deal on private support. It believes that there
are many people in this country—men of means, of intelligence—who,
if they understood what is the aim of this Museum—that of national
education—would gladly send to it their collections; or, knowing what
particular class of objects the iustitution was desirous of securing, would
come forward spontaneously and give it their aid.”
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 89

Plan of organization.—The chief requisite to success in the develop-
ment of a great museum is a perfect plan of organization and a philo-
sophical system of classification. Much thought has been devoted to
these subjects by the officers of the Museum, especially during the past
two years. Many of the principal museums of Europe have been
studied by me, personal visits having been made, their catalogues and
publications minutely compared, and correspondence carried on with
their officers. It is hoped that the plans which have been developed as
the result of thése labors, may include the best features of similar plans
hitherto proposed.

The general idea of the new classification is that the collections
should form a museum of anthropology, the word “anthropology” being
applied in it most comprehensive sense. It should exhibit the physical
characteristics, the history, the manners, past and present, of all peoples,
civilized and savage, and should illustrate human culture and industry
in all their phases; the earth, its physical structure and its products, is
to be exhibited with special reference to its adaptation for use by man
and its resources for his future needs. The so-called natural history
collections—that is to say, the collections in pure zoology, geology, and
botany,—should be grouped in separate series, which, though arranged
on another plan, shall illustrate and supplement the collections in indus-
trial and economic natural history.

The classification proposed should provide a pines for every object in
existence which it is possible to describe, or which may be designated
by aname. When the object itself cannot be obtained, its place should
be supplied by a model, picture, or diagram.

The following plan of classification is proposed for provisional use;
the experience of future years will doubtless make it wise to introduce
into it numerous changes. Whatever may be its faults, it is believed
that any object which may come into the possession of the Museum
may by its means be at once assigned to a place in which it may con-
sistently remain.

Only the principal divisions of the classification are now presented,
a more detailed exposition being reserved for the next report.

OUTLINE OF A SCHEME OF MUSEUM CLASSIFICATION.

Divisions. Classes.
PMA ICING ccc eee arcrs a ca che are meio ene ORNS 8 Se 5 if. Se j- 3
it) Dhe Barth as Man's: A bodey...25 2.52520 Se oa Skee 4-10
EO ee a heh I Rv eS gy fits SC ay a ag ge a 17-15
PV The Wx plolbahive IMUUSbIGS 262 ce Sos 6 eee eee hoes 16-20
Vie LRG Tula DOLaiVe PNGUSITIGR. <.<...5 6.68% cmewere gate cs catisioae’s 21-38
Vi. .Uliimate Produets.and their Utilization .< .. 3). <1. 6sse0c.< 39-AT
Wille BaRial ReMtiONDS Or MaNKINGd Wine Voctess6scsccce. scene 48-54

VILL Intellectual Occupations of Mankind................---- 55-64
90 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

ANALYSIS.
I.—Mankind.—( Anthropology.)

1. Man as a zoological unit........Somatology and psychology.

2, Man, grouped in peoples or races .(a) Races of men, physical char-
acters; (b) linguistic characters; (c) art and industrial charac-
ters; (d) ethnogeny; (e) geographical distribution of races;
(f) history, prehistoric and recent, &c.

3. Man, in individual manifestations. ...Representative men: Bi-

ography.
Ii.— The earth as man’s abode.—(Hexiology.)
4. The earth, in the solar SYSLEML pi Sls Cosmology.
The earth’s Structure, ..-226+-.5206 Geology.

The features of the earth’s surface... Physiography.
The atmosphere and its phenomena. Meteorology.
Effects of man upon the earth’s sur- Man and nature.
face, and of climate, physical
features, &c., on man.
9. Apportionment and nomenclature Geography.
of the earth’s surface.
10. Exploration of the earth ........... Voyages and travels.

Mars or

I11.—Natural resources.—( Force and matter.)

11. Force in its manifestations ......... Physics, mechanics, and
physiology.
12. The elements and their combina- Chemical collections.
tions.
io.) Inorganic mabber cose <5i4 1 lke seas Mineralogical collections.
14. The vegetable kingdom 2.......--.-- Botanical collections.
15. The animakkingdom.............-. Zoological collections.

IV.—The exploitative industries.—(Exploitative technology.)
Primary.
16. Exploitation of inorganic materials.. Mining and quarrying.
17. Exploitation of vegetable products Lumbering and field-glean-

of spontaneous growth. ing.
18. Capture of animals................ Hunting, fishing, &e.
Secondary.
19. Culture of plants........ vies iplseyetcte Agriculture, horticulture,

and forestry.
20. Culture of animals: domestic ani- Pecudiculture.
mals and their uses.

V.—The elaborative industries.—(Elaborative technology.)

21. Preparation of food-stuffs, narcotics, &c.
22. Distillation, manufacture of perfumeries, &c.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. SB |

V.—The elaborative industries—Continued.
23. Oils, fats, soaps, and waxes; their preparation and use.
24, Guins, resins, glues, and cements.
25. Pigments and dyes; painting, staining, polishing, bleaching, &c.
26. The chemical manufactures and their products.
27. Feathers, hair, bristles, and their use.
28. Furs and leathers; tanning and currying.
29. Fibers, cordage, textile fabrics, needlework, basket-work.
30. Paper and its manufacture; book-making; stationery.
31. Hard and flexible organic tissues and their use.
32. Woods, and their wood-working industries.
33. Stones, and the stone-working industries; masonry.
34. Metals, metallurgy, and the metal industries.
35. Glass and enamel and their fabrication.
36. Pottery, and the ceramic industry.
37. Tools, machinery, and motors, their manufacture and use.
38. Construction, architecture, and civil engineering.

VI.— Ultimate products and their utilization.

39. Foods and drinks: preparation, cookery, &c.

40. Narcotics and masticatories; pipes, &c.

41. Dress, and personal adornment.

42. Buildings, villages, and cities.

43. Furniture, house interiors, domestic economy, &c.

44, Heating and illumination.

45. Medicine, surgery, pharmacology, hygiene, &c.

46. Public comfort, recreation, protection, and rescue.

47. Transportation by land and water: appliances and accessories.

VII —Social relations of mankind.—(Sociology and its accessories.)

48. The vocations of men.
49. Communication of ideas and their record: writing and printing,
telegraphy, signals, &e.

0. Trade and commerce.

1. Societies and federations, social, beneficial, religious, and polit-
ical.

Government and law.

. War (including armor and weapons).

4. Festivals, ceremonies, usages, memorials, &ce.

a OU
te

St Or Or
oo

VIII.— Intellectual occupations of mankind.—( Art, science, and philosophy.)

55. Games and amusements.

56. Music and musical instruments.

57. The drama and the stage.

58. The pictorial, plastic, and decorative arts.

59. Literature (from the intellectual standpoint only).
60. Folk lore, traditions, and superstitions.
92 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

VIII.—Intellectual occupations—Continued.

61. Science: (Research and record.) Scientific instruments.
2. Philosophy, religious, metaphysical, and cosmical.

63. Education and reform; schools, museums, libraries, &e.

64, Climaxes of human achievement.

L Man.—In the first division man is exhibited as the central idea
of the whole system; (1) in a general way: his anatomical structure
and physiological functions are graphically shown; (2) as divided into
races; the physical, the linguistic, and industrial characteristics of
each race and their geographical distribution and history are taken
up; and, thirdly, man is shown in his individual manifestation by an
exhibition of portraits and statues of the representative men of all
countries and ages. }

Il. The Harth.—In the second an exhibition is made of the earth
considered as man’s abode. Viewing the earth as a member of the
solar system, the principles of astronomy are illustrated; then are shown
the structure of the earth, its geological history, its climate, and other
features by means of which it is especially adapted for human occupa-
tion; and finally the changes which have been produced on the earth’s
surface by the agency of man and the whole subject of geography.

II. Natural resources.—In the third section are to be shown the re-
sources of the earth in the form of minerals, plants, and animals, and
its laws and manner of utilization.

IV. Hxploitative industry—In the fourth section are to be shown the
methods and results of the industries of exploitation; such as quarry-
ing, mining, hunting, fishing, agriculture, and the rearing of domesti-
cated animals.

V. The Hlaborative industries.—In the fifth section are to be included
the constructive industries and arts and their products: the prepara-
tion and working of stone, brick, pottery, tiles, metal, glass, wood,
textile fabrics, leathers, furs, paper, glues and cements, paints, dyes and
varnishes, chemical materials, tools and utensils, food products, the
graphic arts, architecture, engineering, &c.; and the final products of
these arts and industries in their primary condition and prepared for
final utilization, as in the case of costume, edifices, furniture and domestic
economy, vehicles of transportation, &c.

VI. Physical condition of man.—In the sixth section are to be illus-
trated those subjects which relate especially to the physical condition

of man: heating and illumination, furniture, home customs, domestic —

economy, buildings, villages and cities, foods, dress, medicine, surgery,
pharmacology, sanitary science and public health, gymnastics and
physical culture, hospitals, and remedial asylums.

VIJ.—Social relations.—In the seventh section are to be shown the ap-
pliances and methods made use of by wan in his social relations; the com-
munication of ideas by writing, telegraphic signal, mails, &c., domestic
and social customs and observations, societies and representative organ-
izations, trade and commerce, government and law, ceremonial and war.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 93

VIII.—Jntellectual occupation of man.—In the eighth section are to
be shown objects illustrating the intellectual and moral condition of
man: superstitions, crime and error, benevolent enterprises and reforma-
tory institutions, religious organizations and systems, museums, sports,
the pictorial and plastic arts, music and musical instruments, the drama,
folk-lore, literature, science, philosophy, education and educational insti-
tutions, and the most perfect results of human achievement in every
direction of activity.

Possibilities of expanding the above plan.— The above statement of
the plan of classification, on account of its brevity, fails to give a very
definite idea of the comprehensiveness of the scheme. In each division
of the subject, plans have been devised for showing not only the
present condition of the achievement, but the steps by which man has
arrived at the present condition in every direction in which human
activity has been exerted—a graphic history of the development of
human culture and civilization.

EH g., Expansion of culture of animals.—As an illustration of the
manner in which each section of this classification may be expanded,
reference may be made to two or three divisions. Under the head of
culture of domestic animals, for instance, would be shown the methods
employed in the culture of sponges, of oysters, of leeches, of bees, of the
cochineal insect, of silkworms, of maggots for bird food, of crawfish, crabs
and lobsters; of fish, of poultry, of singing and ornamental birds, of
fleece-bearing animals, of meat and milk producing animals, of beasts of
burden, hunting animals, of pets, and the subjects of aquaria, menag-
eries, and zoological gardens. In connection with these would be ex-
hibited a collection of all the animals which have been domesticated by
man in any part of the world, some eighty or ninety species altogether,
and in the case of the more prominent species—for instance, the dog—
characteristic illustrations of each breed or race.

EB. g., Expansion of transportation.—In the division of transportation
would be shown all that related to modes of movement, roads, tramways,
canals, railroads, lines of ocean and river navigation, with the acces-
sories of tunnels, bridges, toll-gates, sign-posts, buoys, light-houses, &c.,
and vehicles of transportation, from the skate, stilt, snow-shoe, veloci-
pede, and sledge, to the railroad-car, the steamer, and the balloon.

Ei. g., Expansion of graphic arts.—Under the head of the graphic
arts would be shown, in addition to illustrations of all the various
methods of engraving upon stone, wood, and metal, of painting and
photography, a collection illustratjng the art of writing and printing
from its inception—from the stilus and papyrus—through the pen and
pencil to the type-writer, electric pen, the hektograph, and the whole
subject of book-making, printing with engraved types and blocks, with
movable types, wood-cuts, metal plates, and lithographic stone, the
details of book-making, proof-reading, and book-sizes of books, &e.

E. g., Hxpansion of ceremonies—Under the head of ceremonies, the
94 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

exercises of religious rites, and social ceremonies, would be shown
ecclesiastical utensils, &c., monuments of all kinds, badges of office,
flags and banners, heraldic emblems, and regalia, medals, &e.

Each of the sixty-four principal sections provided for in the classifica-
tion is expanded in an equally comprehensive manner.

Experiments in methods of arrangement.—Much has been done during
the year in studying and experimenting, for the purpose of ascertaining
how to present to the public in the most effective manner the specimens
to be shown in the Museum; the main objects in view being, (1) to
enable the visitors to make their examinations with the least possible
fatigue of eye and limb; (2) to label the objects in the most concise and
instructive manner, and (3) to make the Museum as a whole as beautiful
and attractive as possible.

The new building more than meets all expectations. The illumination
is perfect, the amount of space available for exhibition purposes is un-
doubtedly the maximum for a building of the size, and the disposition
of the exhibition halls in a single level directly upon the surface of the
earth, proves to be of great importance both to visitors and to those
who have in hand the work of arranging the collections. Over two
hundred exhibition cases have been constructed, many of which embody
ideas which have never before been used in museum administration;
these, however, must be seen to be appreciated. The cases are all of
mahogany, finished in the natural color, and have been constructed in
accordance with artistic plans furnished by Mr. W. Bruce Gray. Their
chief recommendations are the following: (1) the building consisting
practically of a single large hall; the cases are so constructed as to form
partitions dividing the hall into seventeen halls of lesser extent; (2) the
cases are all of one length, 8 feet 8 inches, which is the architectural
unit of the Museum building, or are of such lengths that, combined
together, they always conform to this unit, so that they are interchange-
able; (3) the construction is such that, with very slight expenditure of
labor, any one of them full of specimens can be transported from one
part of the building to another, thus allowing great freedom in the
matter of rearranging the museum; (4) all the smaller specimens are
mounted in groups upon small tablets or in glass-covered boxes of uni-
form size, which can be handled with great facility and which afford
great security to the specimens, and diminish immensely the labor of
properly caring for them; (5) the objects are displayed against back-
grounds which at the same time afford the greatest ease to the eye
of the visitor and the greatest relief and effectiveness to the object dis-
played; (6) the objects being shown singly against a suitable background,
and at the same time brought as close as possible to the glass front of
the case, the sense of confusion, so often experienced in museums, is
entirely avoided; (7) the labels are printed in large, heavy-face type and
upon paper of soft tints, which are much less wearisome to the eye
than the ordinary labels in black and white.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 95

Aid from other Museums.—Many important suggestions have been re-
ceived from the management of the South Kensington Museum, undoubt-
edly the most perfect and artistically arranged museum in the world,
the director of which has with great courtesy furnished a complete set
of samples of mounting materials and labels and plans of all the exhi-
bition cases.

Similar aid has been furnished by Dr. Giinther, keeper of the zoologi-
eal department of the British Museum, and by architectural counselor
Tiede, who has supplied plans of the Zoological Museum at Berlin, of
which he is the architect, as well as of other museums in Europe. Ex-
periments have been made with the idea of building the exhibition cases
of iron, and of finishing the wooden cases in ebony color, but the cases
of mahogany, polished in the natural color of the wood with a “rubbed
hard-oil finish,” seem to be at once the most beautiful and the most con-
venient.

Only a limited number of cases of each pattern have been constructed,
and the work has been given to nine different manufacturing firms in
Washington, Baltimore, and Philadelphia. The experience which has
been gained by the experiments of the past year will enable the officers
of the Museum to proceed understandingly and rapidly with the work
of completing the installation of the new building with cases. There
are now on hand in the two buildings about 600 exhibition cases. Many
of these will, however, require to be replaced in the future.

One of the exhibition halls in the old Smithsonian building has been
refitted with cases, and has been experimentally decorated from a de-
sign gratuitously furnished by W. B. Gray, the work being done by the
well-known firm of John Gibson & Co., of Philadelphia, at exceptionally
low rates.

Museum Library.—The increased activity in investigation, as well as
the needs of the curators in their work of recording the history of the
collections under their charge, has made it necessary to establish a
working library in connection with the Museum, it being found impos-
sible to depend upon the old method of drawing books from the Con-
gressional Library. A small number of works has been reclaimed from
the Smithsonian deposit in the Congressional Library, but the Museum
Library is, for the most part, made up of a very valuable collection of
standard zoological and industrial works and bound pamphlets, com-
posing the private library of Professor Baird, which he has given to the
Museum.

In response to a special circular, many of the museums and scientific
societies of Europe and America have contributed sets of their publica-
tions. The library now contains 5,450 volumes and 4,750 pamphlets,
bound and unbound, in all a number of 10,200.*

Books of reference, periodicals, and works of general interest are kept

_

* Estimate based on running count.
$6 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

in the general library in the northwest corner of the Museum building,
while those works relating to special departments are, for the conven-
ience of workers, placed in sectional libraries in the apartments of the
several curators. The library system has beenunder the charge of Mr.
Frederick W. True, who has already completed a card catalogue of
the books.

Work of the Preparators.—The work of the various preparators con-
nected with the Museum has increased in efficiency during the year,
Mr. Palmer, the chief modeller, has developed several new features in
his work, one of the most important of which is the making in plaster
the casts of animals, such as, on account of the shortness of their hair,
cannot be successfully set up by the taxidermist. Experiments on dogs
of different breeds and a leopard have been successful. A cast of a
high-bred pointer is especially remarkable, on account of the faithful
manner in which all of the marks of its hereditary perfections are shown,
and on account of the life-like manner in which it is represented in the
act of pointing. The largest animal cast, which has yet been made, is

that of a fin-back whale, over 30 feet in length, one side of which ex- .

hibits the whale in the attitude of swimming, while upon the other, in
the concavity of the inner outline of the half cast, is to be placed the
articulated skeleton of the animal.

The artists, Messrs. Shindler and Hendley, have made many improve-
ments in painting the casts of reptiles, fish, and stone implements, it
being now possible to produce counterfeits of implements which cannot
be distinguished from the originals, except bythe test of the knife. In
February of this year Mr. John H. Richard, the veteran zoological
draughtsman, for several years in the employ of the Museum, died, at an
advanced age. Among many important works illustrated wholly or in
part by him were Holbrook’s ‘Ichthyology of South Carolina,” and
‘North American Herpetology.”

Mr. Marshall, who has been employed entirely in mounting birds,
manifests increased skill.

A number of mammals and skeletons have been mounted at the estab-
lishment of H. A. Ward, in Rochester, N. Y., usually with very satisfac-
tory results.

The photographic gallery in the new building has been fitted up with
the purpose of making it one of the most complete establishments for
scientific photography.

A temporary force of stone cutters and polishers has been employed
in dressing the collection of building-stones gathered in connection with
the tenth census by Dr. Hawes, and 1,322 cubes have been finished.

Mr. George P. Merrill has been engaged in lapidary work in the same .

connection, and the microscopic slides of building-stones which he has
prepared are considered to be as good as the best.

Detailed statements are on file showing the work accomplished by the
several preparators.

oe  — —————EeEeEEEeEEeEeEeEeee
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 97

Details of administration—Much thought has been devoted during
the year to the reorganization of the force of experts and workmen em-
ployed in the Museum, and with the beginning of the present fiscal year
several of the principal assistants of the Museum were commissioned
as curators, and were formally assigned to the charge of special depart-
ments.

A schedule has been drawn up by which the employés of the Museum
are classified in a number of groups, each grade having certain responsi-
bilities and a fixed salary attached to it. Hereafter, changes of salary
can only be effected by a change of grade; and one source of dissatis-
faction among the employés of the Museum in the past will by this
arrangement be avoided. In several instances specialists have volun-
teered to perform the duty of curators without pay, for the sake of the
opportunities of study which they would thus acquire, and have been
appointed honorary curators.

Another task which has been accomplished is the formulation of the
usages and unwritten laws of the establishment in systematic form. So
long as the number of employés was small, this was, perhaps, unneces-
sary; but it has been of late found essential to have printed in acces-
sible form a “plan of organization,” which should define the duties of
officers and employés in each grade, and should explain for their benefit
the many forms of administration routine, the observance of which is
so necessary for the efficiency of the Museum work.

One of the results of this new “plan of organization” has been the
complete rearrangement of the offices and workrooms, in which specimens
are received, unpacked, and from which they are distributed to the
different departments, and of the storage-rooms and preparators’ work-
shops.

Another result has been the establishment of the office of registrar,
this officer being responsible for all matters relating to the reception and
sending out of packages, the management of the storage-rooms, and the
record and acknowledgment of accessions, the packing and unpacking
of boxes.

The force of mechanics, watchmen, engineers and firemen, laborers,
messengers, and cleaners has been reorganized, and is under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of the building,
under whose efficient management a high degree of efficiency and dis-
cipline has been attained.

Employés in this division have been required to assume a uniform
cap of blue cloth, with the words “U.S. National Museum,” and, in
the case of the superintendent and master-mechanies, with the names
of their offices in gold letters upon the front. This plan has proved prac-
tically a success, being a convenience to visitors and insuring better disci-
pline. Complete reports of work accomplished in the departments of la-
bor and service, in the engineers’ and electricians’ divisions are on file.

The electric service of the Museum has been much extended and im-

S. Mis. 109

7

98 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

proved. The telephones, now in every department, afford opportunities
of communication through the central office, which is in operation night
and day. Wires have been carried from the central office to the resi-
dences of the Director and some of his principal assistants.

The public-comfort rooms for ladies and men, in the southeast pavil-

ion of the new building, have been open since the time of the inaugura- '

tion ball in March, 1881.

The visitors’ book for 1880 shows 24,000 entries. These are believed
to represent at least 150,000 visitors, it being a matter of observation
that only about 10 per cent. of the visitors enter their names. <A regis-
tering-machine is now in use, by which a careful record of the number
of visitors is kept.

Plans for the better arrangement and preservation of the archives of
the Museum have been perfected; and a large room in the northwest
pavilion has been set apart as an archive-room. Here it is intended to
concentrate all the papers illustrating the history of the Museum. In
adjoining rooms will be stored the duplicate printed labels and samples
of apparatus and other materials used in the Museum.

A job printing press, with an assortment of type, for printing labels
and circulars, has been purchased during the year, with the view of sav-
ing time and affording opportunities for experimenting in the prepara-
tion of exhibition labels, which has hitherto been impracticable. All
considerable jobs of printing are, however, as heretofore, done at the
Government Printing Office.

Publications.—There has been much activity during the year in the
direction of scientific investigation, and a considerable number of books
and papers have been published by the officers, a list of which publica-
tions will be found in the bibliographical appendix, together with a list
of papers, relating to the government collections, published by others
than officers of the Museum. A number of important memoirs are in
preparation—some of them already in the press—which cannot be in-
cluded in the bibliography of 1881, but are referred to in a second sup-
plement containing announcements of works in preparation.

In accordance with a rule of the Museum recently announced, officers
of the Museum, or others, intending to use Museum material in the
preparation of memoirs are required to file with the Director of the
Museum a statement of their intention. This step has been found
necessary in order to avoid collisions of interests.

It is intended at an early date to complete the Bibliographical His-
tory of the Museum—a work commenced some years ago by the present
Director. This will form an exhaustive index to all that has been
written concerning the government collection.

A bibliography of the publications of Prof. 8. F. Baird, now in press,
will serve as a first installment to this work, and in this connection is
particularly appropriate, since he was really the first to begin the proper
utilization of the material of the Museum.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. ae

The Biological Society of Washington has since October 1 held its
monthly meetings in the archive room of the Museum. The average
attendance at these meetings has been about 40; and many papers of
importance have been presented, a considerable manon of which related
to collections in the Museum.

It is intended to fit up one of the smaller ranges in the new building
with chairs, in order that it may be used for meetings of this and sim-
ilar societies, and for use as a lecture-room at such times in the future
as it may be found desirable to have public lectures given in connection
with the work of the Museum.

A table, prepared by Dr. Bean, showing the number of entries in the
record books for the years 1880 and 1881 is presented below, and Appen-
dix D a detailed alphabetical list of contributors to the Museum.

Table showing the number of entries in the record books of the United States National
Museum at the close of the years 1880 and 1881, respectively.

Increase

Class. 1880. 1881. 1881.
CUES EOS Cee es Se Sea ee a 13,264 | 13, 360 97
ed see ee a ee ree ee ALE OS eee ee ee een. 81,329 | 85,673 4, 345
Rentles! and amphipians es cemccmste seal ae oelea ceeianee ee nia leisee em 10, 517 12, 490 1, 974
SHIN Oar ae tees ceaciotte see amine seecineetalsiclsncis'as meateinietassisicnee/s ors seta nae: 26, 947 29, 586 2, 639
Becletans ANG SUM Bp seas ee see eS  eeisee cote eaiitigestelecsasge.s 16. 367 16, 610 244
tea ate ne reiiota acetates minieleeimiaisimicvatelniseise eyes bieie tate mis lesisiarciel a eraia 18, 189 18, 417 229
Grits eee ce eee etismeiss a seman le sle divas cm sceatels nein cielo ahieeneat's 2, 514 3, 678 1, 165
PAN GMOS tee caienaes sete oasis ote cs otlae ocnicie islsisloele cies zcisicinecegcc can ae 100 100) |cecoesse
IMIGIIIR Seer sees ean sire arias ee cn ais Dee aclasseicsuins RO CCC oer sb se se CEA ene 33, 169 33, 281 113
DREGINOIGS 23 oa ots RBS RO BOSSE SEC Sep Oee GOST OB LB eC coon OS neo bee Beneaer 3, 345 4, 703 1, 359
DHS Ces ANG LOL ZOAIS = ser nemesis ee es lense enn eew a eieeeemeiseemctas nen thea nee 700 700
Taroebehrate donnie erst esa be pea ee eee eg 9, 750 11, 478 | 1, 729
[Alaris tals en yee Mn Nene nl cee LN Ok har lunie tbe mtney Meier kN 20,450 | 21, 552 1, 103
NOT O-SCONEGS tee as en cca Solel senile nn tes moana s chaise Saeceduowecc nce set |soabescaae 2, 932 2, 932
HUN OEpICal SPOCMMONSs= sacs us-cmewecetlsceens wos- cee cee see canasiccns ae 45, 570 51, 410 5, 841

Total increase, so far as entered in catalogue, 1881, 24,470.

The principal operations in the Museum during the year may perhaps
best be described by a reference to what has been accomplished in pos
special department of work.

ART AND INDUSTRY.

In the department of art and industry there has been considerable ac-
tivity, although the want of suitable exhibition cases has rendered it
impossible to show many of its results to the public. The great mass of
material acquired at the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition (which ma-
terial has since been stored in the Armory building) has now been brought
to the Museum and stored in two of the central courts. The collections
of naval models and musical instruments and a portion of the Chinese
collection have been put in order and are ready for exhibition.

Materia Medica.—The materia medica collections have been assorted
and catalogued by Dr. J. M. Flint, surgeon, U. 8. N., who has been
detailed by the Surgeon-General of the Navy to superintend the work ~
of building up this department of the Museum. During the year most
of the drugs and medicines have been arranged, and the catalogue
100 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

/
shows 1,574 entries. Many of these are specimens of Chinese medi-
cines and the remainder are the first installment of the gift of Messrs.
W. H. Schieffelin & Co., of New York City, who have volunteered to
furnish to the Museum a complete collection of the drugs now in use in
the United States and Europe.

A very complete collection of the official pharmacopeeias of all na-
tions has been gathered, and Dr. Flint has undertaken the work of
compiling from these, for use in the arrangement of the collections, a
list of all the articles of the materia medica of the world and the author-
ized preparations of each.

Foods.—A considerable amount of work has been done upon the col-
lection of foods by Prof. J. Howard Gore, who reports that there are now
in the Museum 951 specimens belonging to this department, 225 from
China, 516 from the Indians of North America, and 210 preparations of
marine foods, gathered in connection with the fisheries exhibit.

Messrs. H. K. & F. B. Thurber & Co., of New York City, have under-
taken to prepare for the Museum, without charge, a full exhibition of
the food-substances handled in the grocery trade of the United States,
which will form an excellent nucleus for this department. There have
been received from the various manufactories of canned fishery prod-
ucts sample cans showing all the brands of canned fish put up in the
United States during the census year—an important addition to the
fishery collection. .

It would be premature to attempt to state the extent and nature of
the collections in this department. Through the exertions of Mr. Thomas
Donaldson, a large number of the most important of the exhibits which
were retained at the close of the Philadelphia Exhibition in the so-called
Permanent Exhibition of Philadelphia have been given to the National
Museum and are now stored in Philadelphia, there to be retained until
the Museum is ready for their reception. An enumeration of these arti-
cles will be more appropriate in the report for the year 1882.

Aid of Manufacturing and Commercial Firms.—Important contribu-
tions have been promised by several manufacturing and commercial
houses, prominent among which are a full exhibition of paints, varnishes,
and pigments, by Messrs. F. W. Devoe & Co., of New York; of chemical
products, by Powers, Weightman & Co., of Philadelphia; of perfumes
and essential oils, by Young, Ladd & Coffin, of New York City; of the
appliances and operations of dentistry, by the S. S. White Manufac-
turing Company, of Philadelphia, and others of less extent but of equal
interest.

Accessions of the year—Among the important contributions received
during the year may be mentioned a large series of cotton fabrics, illus-
trating the condition of that branch of the textile industry of the United
States during the census year, sent by the various mills at the request of
Mr. Edward Atkinson, special agent of the Tenth Census; a collection of
the ornamental woods of Japan, a hundred in number, consisting of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 101

panels of polished wood, upon which are painted accurate delineations
of the leaves, flower, and fruit of the trees from which they are derived,
and framed in sections of the bark of the same tree, given by the Uni-
versity of Tokio; a collection illustrating fully the ice industry, given by
the Knickerbocker Ice Company; a whale-boat with all its apparatus,
given by J. H. Bartlett & Sons, of New Bedford, Mass.; a collection of
30 working models of schooners, illustrating the history of the fishing
schooner of New England from the beginning of the present century,
obtained by Mr. A. Howard Clark from the ship-builders of Cape Ann,
Mass.; an exhibit illustrating the process of making kid gloves, show-
ing each stage from the natural skin to the completed glove, the gift of
Eugene Krebbs, Regensburg,Germany; aseries of samplesof the native
cottons of Japan, from the Japanese Government; an illustration of
the process of overlaying and wood-cut printing, given by Mr. Theodore L.
De Vinne, of New York ; and a collective exhibit of brushes, showing all
the applications of hair and bristles manufactured, from Miles Bros. &
Co., of New York.

ARCH ZOOLOGY: CHARLES RAU.

The installation of the collections in the archeological department,
under the direction of Dr. Charles Kau, is further advanced than in any
other department of the Museum. The bulk of specimens is now so
great that there is not room for their proper exhibition in the apartment
assigned to them, and the removal to the new building of the ethno-
graphic and industrial materials now exhibited in the archeological hall
will afford opportunity for a much better presentation of the relies of
prehistoric man. Dr. Rau reports 1,432 entries in his record books
during the last half of the year,* and all important objects have been
mounted and placed in the exhibition cases. It is estimated that there
are now 20,536 specimens mounted, labeled, and arranged in the exhi-
bition series.

Among the most important accessions to this department are twelve
boxes, containing 195 specimens, obtained by Hon. J. G. Henderson in
the mounds near Naples, Ill.; a fine series of 130 specimens of Dan-
jsh stone implements, the gift of the Royal Museum of Copenhagen,
Denmark; 52 specimens, the result of mound explorationin Sauk County,
Wisconsin, by Mr. Stephen Bowers; 161 specimens of stone implements
from Carroll County, Tennessee, by Mr. James M. Null; 99 specimens
of Indian remains and implements, collected by Mr. 8. T. Walker on the
southern shore of Choctawhatchee Bay, Florida; 154 specimens of imple-
ments from Mrs. 8. 8S. Haldeman, Pennsylvania; collections made by
Dr. Edw. Palmer in Tennessee and adjoining States, and two drilled

*The archeological specimens prior to July 1, 1881, were entered in the general
ethnological catalogues, and the entries for the entire year are included in the 5,841
entries given for ethnology in general.
102 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

ceremonial objects of great value, acquired by purchase from Mr. D.
W. Harris, of Louisiana.

ETHNOGRAPHY.

Dr. Edward Foreman has been constantly employed since June 1 in
cataloguing the ethnographic material. The most important accession
of the year consists of forty-four boxes obtained by Col. James Steven-
son from the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest, the contents of Which
have been placed on exhibition in temporary cases in the northeast range.
of the new building.

Among other important collections are those made by Messrs. Lucien
M. Turner and E. W. Nelson, Signal-Service observers in Alaska; a con-
siderable collection of objects obtained by Commander L. A. Beardslee,
U.S. N., the most of which were devices made by the Shamans of the
Northwest coast, including a series of curiously carved and painted
rattles, a wand similarly decorated, a wooden spoon, &c., all of them
bearing superstitious figures and employed by the medicine men in the
use of witchcraft and in expelling disease; a few Indian implements
obtained by C. J. Hering from Surinam, and a collection of 34 masks
from Japan, used by the actors in the medieval lyric drama of that
country, known as “No,” and obtained through the eS Manufactur-
ing and Trading Company of Tokio.

During the year, General Horace Capron deposited a valuable collec-
tion of Japanese materials, obtained by him while in the service of that

government.
MAMMALS: FREDERICK W. TRUE.

In the department of mammals there have been fifty-five accession
lots and 97 entries in the catalogue. Little has been done with the
exhibition series during the year, an early removal of the collections to
the new building being contemplated. Cases for their reception are now
in progress of construction. Mr. True, acting curator of the department,
reports the following census of mounted mammals:

Monkeys and lemurs. ..-..-.-.- Ae ADS Kee et ares eer) ere 8
OTS iran ae dears SS sake ean ee FO IMEOTOS ts 2 EIS SERS coer rete Jeg)
Dogs and hyenas........-..-.. 31 | ROGENES 22 i). ees ee ee 300
Weasels, otters, &c....-....- 125) Ridentates:.:.o 5s A ae 30
Bears, raccoons, &c.. - - - ..--- 9 | Marsupials and monotremes.. 56
PAMUIMLID OCS) oi ora a esas hehe 30 | Casts: Monkeys. 2.022.222 3 2
Oxentand Sheep. 2. 325. ssls =< 14 Seals) a2 keaaeuacecnees 2
dB 3) 3 GR ie ee es OY Mae yeh aa 9 IVs 7 ake ch oe ounces 1
PT OO eee iano ecteree cyto 4 POrpomses 2-01 2a abe 10
FUHINOCELOS NS 2: cite eels iccs apenas iL —

PAapirs evo Jeee acer atte 2 Totalksics vate eee eae 695

a ee
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 108

Among the most important additions have been a collection of skins
of Arctic mammals, sent by Mr. R. McFarlane, of Hudson’s Bay Com-
pany, from Athabasca; a collection of mammals from Surinam, sent by
Mr. C. J. Hering, of Paramaribo; skins of antelope and deer, sent by
Mr. Charles Ruby, of the United States Army, at Fort Laramie, Wyo. ;
skins of polar bear, white whale, and three species of seal, including
one male and two young of the very rare saddle-back seal, Histriophoca
equestris, brought by E. W. Nelson, Signal-Service observer at Saint
Michael’s, Alaska; a specimen of manitee, in the flesh, from the Amazon
River, by E. G. Blackford, of New York, and a mounted skeleton of the
celebrated race-horse Henry Clay, the progenitor of the American race
of trotting horses, given by Hon. Erastus Corning, of Albany, and Mr.
Henry O. Jewett, of Buffalo. Mr. P. T. Barnum has sent a specimen in
the flesh of a leopard, which has been cast; and, in response to special
request for specimens of thorough-bred dogs, to be used in forming a
collection of casts of the races of domestic dogs, Dr. T. Berwick Legaré,
of Camden, 8. C., has given a pointer dog of the best blood; and Miss
Anna W. Kelly, of Havre de Grace, Md., an Italian greyhound. From
the United States Fish Commission and its correspondents have been
obtained seven specimens of porpoises in the flesh, all of which have
been cast, and which afford extremely valuable material for settling
certain undecided questions concerning the cetacea of the Atlantic. The
progress of the work upon the cast of the fin-back whale has been
alluded to in connection with the work of.the preparators. ,

BIRDS: ROBERT RIDGWAY.

In the department of birds there have been seventy-four accession
lots. Under the direction of Mr. Robert Ridgway there bas been much
activity in this department in reorganizing the exhibition series of speci-
mens and in eliminating duplicates from the storage series. There have .-
been 4,345 entries in the catalogue. The removal of the mammals and
skeletons to the new building will give an opportunity for a much more
satisfactory exhibition of the ornithological collections.

The most important addition has been Mr. Ridgway’s private collection
of American birds, containing 2,302 specimens of 778 species, especially
important because the specimens have been selected in the field to illus-
trate variations of color and form due to age, sex, and geographical
location.

In addition to numerous small collections, others of special interest
have been received of the birds of Mexico and Yucatan, from A. Bou-
eard, of Paris; of Surinam, from C. J. Hering, of Paramaribo; of Gre-
nada, from J. G. Wells, of Saint Andrews; of Guatemala, from L. Guesde;
of Dominica, from Dr. H. A. Nichols; of Costa Rica, from J. CO. Zeledon;
of Japan, from Dr. .F C. Dale, U.S. N.; of Florida, from Messrs. J. Bell ~
and S. T. Walker; of Wyoming, from Charles Ruby; of Indiana, from
Mr. Ridgway; and of Illinois, from Mr. L. M. Turner.
104 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Mr. Ridgway gives the following census of the bird collection:

Reserve series :
Mounted specimens .-...-.--.---. +. shat a)lt\a: 2) tM abe halt tenia et 7, 000
MENTS Gre ciel Oia says Datacenter pict etc eee 40, 000
MO talPOSCEVE Hh 5 oe ol ole tes iare sD wre! oat gee ne ee ete 47, 000
DUCA tes oso Se ney es ste ate oe 2 on oy Ole nee ete eet 8, 000
POG als ose Bae ele ele teeters = Sl oes thee ete eee ee 55, 000

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS: HENRY C. YARROW.

The department of herpetology, under the direction of Dr. H. C. Yar-
row, has received much attention, and the work of separating the reserve
series, for exhibition and study, from the duplicates has been nearly
completed. The collection has been put in excellent order, in fresh al-
cohol, and provided throughout with tags of block-tin. The large col-
lections of exotic and domestic reptiles which have for many years been
under the custody of Prof. E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia, have been
reclaimed and properly distributed. There have been, during the
year, seventy-five accession lots received, and 1,974 entries upon the
catalogues. Messrs. Walker, Bell, and Wittfield have collected exten-
sively in Florida; Mr. Ridgway, in Indiana; Mr. 8S. W. Marnark, in
Texas; and.Mr. Henry L. Barker, in South Carolina. The exotic rep-
tiles have been received from C. J. Hering; Professor Dugés, of Mex-
ico; Mr. L. Guesde, of Guadaloupe; Dr. Wilford Nelson, British con-
sul at Panama; Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havanna, Cuba; and Mr. Fig-
yelmesy, United States consul at Demerara. <A considerable percent-
age of the reptiles has been received alive, and there has been oppor-
tunity to add largely to the collection of casts. The collection of tur-
tles has been overhauled, and has been arranged by Messrs. Frederick
W. True and Newton P. ecnaden

A census of the collections of reptiles gives the following result:

Number of species North America reptiles represented* .-.... 361

Number of specimens (lots) in reserve ....------.--.-+ +--+ ++: 3, 340
Number of exotic specimens (lots) ......-....-- sn Sone oe pe Pe 115)
Number of species added to reserve in 1881 ........ ......----. 67
Number of specimens added to reserve in 1881 .............-.-.- 239
Numiberof lots .overhauled:in 18S. o703)5, 4. ey Bas tere aeihage 3, 653
Number of living specimens received .. .......-....--..---- fg ae, een
Number of living specimens on hand ......-. woh gage Nee WA cee 3

The collection of casts numbers 82, 61 being of snakes, 11 of lizards,
3 of crocodiles, and 7 of batrachians.

* Forty-three species lacking.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 105

Many of the turtles have been sent to the carp ponds of the Fish
Commission, where a large proportion of all species of American tes-
tudinates may now be seen living. The reserve collection of turtles,
according to Messrs. F. W. True and N. P. Scudder, who have had it
in charge, now includes 568 specimens, of which 490 are in alcohol, 38
are casts, and 40 are skeletons.

FISHES: TARLETON H. BEAN.

In the department of ichthyology, under the direction of Dr. T. H.
Bean, there has been much activity, but, owing to the immense bulk of
the collections, the limited storage-space, and the entire absence of ac-
commodation for the exhibition of the reserve series, the work has
been much retarded. The fitting up of the west range of the Smith-
sonian building for the reception of alcoholic vertebrates—a work now
nearly completed—will enable the curator of this department to revolu-
tionize its arrangement during the coming year. It is impossible at
present to make any estimate whatever of the extent of these collec-
tions. There have been during the year 125 accession lots and 2,639
entries on the catalogues. The most important additions to the collec-
tions resulted from the labor of the United States Fish Commission,
whose recent explorations in the deeper waters along the coast have
resulted in the discovery of numerous important forms of deep-sea fish.
The collections made by Prof. D. S. Jordan on the coast of California,
and by Dr. T. H. Bean in Alaska, are also very extensive and full of in-
terest. The former were overhauled by Prof. D. 8. Jordan and his
assistant, Mr. Charles L. McKay, during a visit to the Museum in Feb-
ruary; and, after the reserve series had been taken out, 70 sets of du-
plicates, containing in all about 15,000 specimens, were made up. These
have since been distributed to the principal museums of the world,
giving to the National Museum large credits upon which to draw in
future for duplicate natural-history material in the possession of those
establishments.

Important collections were also received from Mr. C. H. Gilbert, who
during the winter of 1881 made extensive explorations on the Pacific
coast of Central America and the Isthmus of Panama.

Important lots have also been received from Mr. James G. Swan.
collected by him in the vicinity of Puget Sound; from Lieut. H. E.
Nichols, in Alaska; from Mr. ©. ©. Leslie, in Charleston, 8. C0.; from
Capt. Charles Bendire, U.S. A., in Washington Territory ; from Josiah
Skinner, in the vicinity of Wetumpka, Ala; from Vinal N. Edwards,
Wood’s Holl, Mass.; from Col. Marshall McDonald, in the Chesapeake
Bay; from Mr. E.G. Blackford, of Fulton Market, New York City;
from Prof. S. A. Forbes, in the waters of Illinois; from Miss Rosa Smith,
in San Diego, Cal.; from Andrea Larco, of Santa Barbara; from Dr.J.W.
Velie, of the Chicago Academy of Sciences; from S. T. Walker and Silas
Stearns, in Florida; from Livingston Stone, in California; from Walter
106 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Hayden, at Moose Factory, Hudson’s Bay territory; and from Dr. O. P.
Hay, in the Mississippi River. Exotic fishes have been received from F.
Busse, of Giestemiinde, Germany; from Dr. H. A. Nichols, of Dominica;
from the Public Museum of Kingston, Jamaica; from the Auckland Mu-
seum of New Zealand; from Prof. Alfred Dugés, of Guanajuato, Mexico;
and from Frederick M. Wallem, of Bergen. Charles Seribner’s Sons, of
New York, have presented a copy of the sumptuous work published by
them on the ‘Game Fishes of North America:”—the text by G. Brown
Goode, the plates by J. A. Kilbourne.

INSECTS: CHARLES VY. RILEY.

The department of entomology is one which has, for excellent reasons,
been very little cultivated in the National Museum, although in previ-
ous years the Smithsonian published many extensive works on insects,
and paid much attention to gathering material for investigation.

The subject of entomology is divided by students into so many
branches, each of which is occupied by a small number of specialists, and
it being deemed of first importance to have the materials which are col-
lected carefully studied and reported upon, the collections, as received,
have been distributed in lots to the eight or ten entomologists who
have been serving as collaborators of the Museum, and the material
not thus disposed of has been turned over to the entomologists of the
Department of Agriculture. The necessity of a department of system-

atic and economic entomology has, however, been always recognized,

and on the occasion of the present reorganization steps have been taken
to establish such a department. Prof. OC. V. Riley, the entomologist
of the Department of Agriculture, has been appointed honorary curator,
and has deposited his own private collection of insects, with the idea of
using it as a nucleus for the development of a collection fitting the
dignity af a national’ museum.

The collection deposited by Professor Riley, as stated in the circular,
comprises some 30,000 species and upward of 150,000 specimens of all
orders, and is contained in some 300 double-folding boxes, in large book
form, and in two cabinets containing 80 glass drawers, the specimens
being all in admirable condition and classified, so far as determined.
The collection is especially valuable for the large amount of material it
contains, representing and illustrating the life-habits of insects and
everything relating to their transformation and economy.

In addition to the collection proper, Professor Riley has also furnished
a large amount of miscroscopic material mounted on slides, and illus-
trative of more minute forms of insect life and their structure, together
with much paraphernalia, such as drying and relaxing boxes, spreading-
boards, collecting-materials, &c., which will prove most useful in the
work of the department. Finally, he has also added that portion of
his pamphlet-case library relating to the subject of entomology, and
consisting of 134 cases and upward of 1,000 pamphlets.

¢
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 107

Three large walnut cases, containing entomological material, both
dry and in alchohol, have been transferred, with the consent of Com-
missioner Loring, from the Department of Agriculture. This material
represents the accumulation of many years from different government
exploring expeditions, though most of it has passed through the hands
of specialists and is not in very good condition.

Specialists in entomology will be encouraged to deposit their types
by the promise of painstaking custody, and particular attention will be
paid in the future to the development of this department. There have
been received during the year fifty-three accession lots, the most inter-
esting of which, perhaps, were collections of butterflies from Africa and
Brazil, presented by Paymaster Albert W. Bacon, U.S. N., and a series
of plaster casts of the dwellings of Texas ants, obtained from the Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.

CONCHOLOGY: WILLIAM H. DALL.

The department of conchology, under the care of Mr. W. H. Dall,
honorary curator, has been in a quiescent state during the year, owing
to the fact that the officer in charge has been occupied in other duties.
The removal of the invertebrate fossils to the other building will, by
affording more room in the conchological laboratory, give better oppor-
tunities for work in the future. Highteen accession lots have been
received in the Museum, chief among which are a collection from the
Pacific coast by Mr. Henry Hemphill, of San Diego, Cal.; and a collec-
tion from Italy, received from Rev. Eugene Vetromile, of Machias, Me.
Extensive additions have been made to this department in the course
of the dredging operations of the United States Fish Commission. This
material, with that of previous years, is still in the hands of Prof. A. E.
Verrill, at New Haven, where it is being worked up under his direc-
tion.

Among other important collections, which will be made available to
students as soon as cases can be provided, is that recently deposited
by Mr. W. G. Binney, containing the types of his voluminous writings
upon the land and fresh-water shells of North America; and the collec-
tion of North American Unionidea, labeled for the Museum by Dr. James
Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y.

MARINE INVERTEBRATES: RICHARD RATHBUN.

The department of marine invertebrates, under the direction of Mr.
Richard Rathbun, has been enriched by thirty-one accession lots. As
in the case of the conchological department, the principal additions have
been made by the United States Fish Commission, which have not yet
been forwarded from New Haven. There has been great activity in this
department, as is indicated by the report of its curator.

Three thousand three hundred and thirty-four entries have been made
108 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

in the record books; 1,358 radiates; 1,164 crustaceans; 700 sponges and
protazoa; and 112 mollusks.

All the materials in storage have been examined and have received
what* care was necessary. Much work has been accomplished in the
way of duplicate material for distribution, it being estimated that over
a million specimens, representing one hundred and fifty species, are now
ready to be distributed in this manner.

“One of the most important achievements made in this department
in 1881,” reports the curator, ‘‘ has been the proper mounting for museum
display of nearly all the reserve specimens of corals and sponges now
possessed by the Museum.” This work has been performed by Mr. E.
H. Hawley in the most perfect manner, and he has also just finished
mounting a series of the larger and more prominent New England echi-
noderms; the larger share of the stony corals mounted and some of the
Gorgonian corals are types colfected by the United States Exploring
Expedition, labeled by Prof. J. D. Dana, and some recently examined
and relabeled by Prof. A. E. Verrill.

The coral collection is one of great value and beauty, and represents
many faunal regions. All of the species of corals known from the fish-
ing-banks of eastern North America are represented in it.

The mounted collection of sponges contains specimens of all the
species and of most of the varieties of commercial sponges from Florida,
the Bahamas, and the Mediterranean, labeled by Prof. A. Hyatt of the
Boston Society of Natural History. In addition are many specimens
collected by the United States Exploring Expedition, and from other
sources.

The total number of specimens mounted is 1,031; 700 of which are
corals; 225, sponges; and 106, echinoderms.

The corals which have been thus mounted are believed to be more
artistically and tastefully exhibited than any similar collection in any
other museum in the world.

The west hall of the Smithsonian Building is now being fitted up for
the reception of this collection; the minerals and ceramic specimens,
hitherto there displayed, being in process of removal to the new build-
ing. The special collection of the cephalopod crustaceans made by Mr.
Rathbun, as material for a special investigation now in progress in his
laboratory, is one of the finest in the world, filling over seven hundred
bottles. Among the most interesting accessions, in addition to those
gathered by the Fish Commission, are a number of small lots obtained
by the Gloucester fishermen on the off-shore banks, a fine collection of
invertebrates from the vicinity of Cherrystone, Virginia, gathered by
Col. Marshall McDonald of the Fish Commission; a choice suit of corals
from Hayti, the gift of Prof. J. M. Langston, consul-general, at Port au
Prince; collections of marine invertebrates gathered by Messrs. Nelson
and Turner, and from Japan by Dr. F. C. Dale, U. S. N., and Mr. P.
L. Jouy, attached to the U. S. steamer Palos.

EE ee ee
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 109

There have been fifty-seven accessions of paleontological specimens.
Except in the department of invertebrate paleontology, under the di-
rection of Dr. C. A. White, curator, there has been little attention paid
during the year to work upon the collections of fossils.

FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES: C. A. WHITE.

The collections in invertebrate paleontology have received consider-
able attention from Dr. White, who has, however, been absent for a
great part of the year, occupied in work for the Geological Survey and
as a member of the artesian wells commission, under the direction of
the Commissioner of Agriculture. Material progress has, however,
been made in the final arrangement of the tertiary and cretaceous fossils,
valuable from having been so thoroughly reported upon by the late
Prof. F. B. Meek. Among the most important accessions to this collec-
tion have been the first series of duplicates from the Hall collection of
fossils, the gift of the American Museum of Natural History, of New
York City, a collection of cretaceous and Laramie fossils, gathered in
Colorado by Dr. White, and a large collection of European tertiary
and cretaceous fossils from M. J. J. M. De Morgan, of Paris.

FOSSIL BOTANY: LESTER F. WARD.

Prof. L. F. Ward, fossil botanist of the Geological Survey, has been
appointed honorary curator of the department of fossil botany; but,
at the beginning of the present calendar year, he had not entered upon
active duties. The extensive collection of fossil-plants gathered in
past years by the government exploring expeditions and geological
surveys, and which has for many years been in the custody of Prof. Leo
Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio, one of the finest collections of fossil-
plants in the world, having been re-arranged and labeled by Professor
Lesquereux, has been placed in the final custody of the museum. Cases
have been prepared for its reception, and during the present year it
will be arranged for the use of students. The collection of fossil verte-
brates, filling hundreds of boxes, is still in the storage-rooms. No steps
have yet been taken to provide for their rearrangement.

PLANTS: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

In accordance with an arrangement made many years ago with the
Department of Agriculture, all botanical specimens received by the
National Museum are placed in the custody of the botanist of that es-
tablishment, and the very extensive herbaria of the Museum are on de-
posit in the Agricultural Buildings, under the charge of Dr. Geo. A.
Vasey.

Fourteen accession lots of plants have been received during the year.
110 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

A portion of these are living water plants, and have been assigned to
the superintendent of the government carp-ponds, under whose charge
the Fish Commission has developed an extensive plantation of water-
lilies and other interesting aquatic species.

MINERALOGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY: GEORGE W. HAWES. |

In the department of mineralogy, under the direction of Dr. G. W.
Hawes, there has been great activity during the year. The mineralog-
ical and metallurgical materials, collected in all parts of the country for
the Centennial Exhibition, and presented by foreign governments at its
close, and which for five years past have occupied the two lower stories
of the armory building, have all been unpacked and assorted, and the
greater portion of them removed to the new building. Many of the most
bulky and interesting blocks of minerals and ores have been placed on
exhibition on a concrete pavement outside of and along the west main
hall of the new building. Dr. Hawes, in connection with an investiga-
tion upon the building-stones of the United States, which he is carrying
on in behalf of the Tenth Census, has gathered specimens of stone from
every quarry in the United States; and a force of fifteen men, in part
detailed from the Census Office, has been occupied all the year in pre-
paring them for study and exhibition. The blocks, which are, for the
most part, received by mail in a rough condition, have been dressed and
polished in four-inch cubes. These cubes, when finished, show upon
different sides the appearance of the stone when polished, ax-ham-
mered, bush-hammered, rough-faced, drafted, and rough.

Up to the 1st of January, 1881, there have been forwarded by special
agents of the census, or by other persons upon their solicitations, 3,030
specimens of building-stones, representing nearly every quarry of im-
portance in the United States. Of this number 1,277 have been dressed
in the manner just referred to. The Museum had already in its posses-
sion 535 dressed specimens, many of them in blocks a foot square, or
larger,.and beautifully polished, showing the products of many of the
principal American quarries, and those of several foreign countries.

Numerous analyses of building-stones by the chemical and specific
gravity methods have been made by Messrs. ¥. P. Dewey and I. W.
Taylor.

Since the 1st of June, Mr. Geo. P. Merrill has prepared 1,550 micro-
scopic slides of building-stones, to be used in connection with the inves-
tigation.

In addition to the building-stones received, there have also been fifty-
seven accession lots, among the most important of which are a mag-
nificient collection of stalactites and stalagmites from the Luray Caverns,
the gift of the Shenandoah Valley Railroad Company, and an extensive
series of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park, including the
top of a geyser with seventeen openings, obtained by Col. P. W. Norris,.
superintendent of the park.

-

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 111]

APPENDIX A.—LIST OF OFFICERS, JANUARY 1, 1882.*

.

SPENCER F. BAIRD......... Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and Director.

G. BROWN GOODE......... Assistant Director ; Curator, Dep’t of Art and Industry.

WEIS EAMG DAT Ties oecct= Honorary Curator, Department of Conchology.

ROBBERS RIDGWAY soo o5. Curator, Department of Ornithology.

CHARTS MRA a: «ci. <ccinciate Curator, Department of Archeology.

TARLETON H. BEAN -...--- Curator, Dep’t Ichthyology, and Editor of Proceedings.
IEURINIR YS: CYA ROW: <2 a as0- Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology.
CHARLES A. WHITE..-.--.- Curator, Department of Inverlebrate Paleontology.
GEORGE W. HAWES..--..-.. Curator, Depariment of Geology. ;
JAMES (MPL EIN TSS. 2 cue. se Honorary Curator, Department of Materia Medica.
RICHARD RATHBUN...---.. Assistant Curator, in charge Dep’t of Marine Invertebrates.
EDWARD FOREMAN ....... Assistant, Department of Ethnography.

FREDERICK W. TRUE..... Tibrarian ; acting Curator, Department of Mammals.
FREDERICK W. TAYLOR -. Chemist.

GEORGE P. MERRILL...--. Aid, Department of Mineralogy.

WILLIAM 8S. YEATES....... Aid, Department of Mineralogy.

APPENDIX B.—BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MUSEUM WORK FOR
1881. ;

I.—PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM.

BEAN, TARLETON H. Descriptions of new species of fishes (Uranidea
marginata, Potamocottus Bendiret) and of Myctophum crenulareJ.& G.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 26-29.)
Notes on some fishes from Hudson’s Bay.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 127-129.)
Descriptions of new fishes from Alaska and Siberia.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 144-159.)
——- Identifications of McCloud River, California, fishes, referred
to in a paper based on a letter of J. B. Campbell.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1881, i, p. 46.)
Directions for collecting and preserving fish.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 235-238.)
A: preliminary catalogue of the fishes of Alaska and adjacent
waters.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 239-272.)

* The names in each grade are arranged in the order of seniority.
112 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

BEAN, TARLETON H. Movements of young alewives Lanenon Sp.)in
Colorado River, Texas.

(Bull. U.S) EF. C., 1881, 1, pp. 69; 70.)

—-_—— Notes ona aninieent by the United States Fish Commission of
California salmon (Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Tanner’s Creek, Indi-
ana, in 1876.

(Bull. U.S. F. C., 1, pp. 204, 205.)

Account of a shipment by the United States Fish Commission
of California salmon-fry (Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Southern Lou-
isiana, wHh a note on some collections made at Tickfaw.

(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1, pp. 205, 206.)
— A contribution to the biography of the commercial cod of Alaska.
(Forest and Stream, April 28, 1881, pp. 250-252; also in Trans. Amer. Fish

Cult. Association, 1881, pp. 16-34.)

List of deep-water fishes, etc. See under VERRILL, Notice of
the remarkable Marine Fauna of New England.

(Am. Jour. Sci, Oct., 1881, vol. xxii, pp. 295-297.)

See also under GOODE and BEAN.

DALL, WILLIAM H. The Chukchis and their neighbors in the north-
eastern extremity of Siberia.
(Proc. Royal Geogr. Soc. London, iii, pp. 568-570.)
— Hydrologie des Bering-meeres und der benachbarten Gewisser.
(Petermann’s Geogr., Mittheilungen, 1881, pp. 361-380.)
Table of currents in Northern Pacific and map of Bering Strait
and vicinity.
Hydrologie des Bering-Meeres und der benachbarten Gewasser
(Petermann’s Geogr., Mittheilungen, 1881, pp. 443-448.)
American work in the department of recent Mollusca during
the year 1880.
(Amer. Naturalist, September, 1881, xv, pp. 704-718. Separate; without
cover or title page.)
— Ontheso-called Chukchi and Namollo people of Eastern Siberia.
(Amer. Naturalist, November, 1881, xv, pp. 857-868. Separate; notrepaged
without cover.)
Intelligence in a snail.
(Amer. Naturalist, December, 1881, xv, pp. 976-977. Separate; without
cover. )
— Some recent observations on Molluscs.
(Bull. Phil. Soc., Washington, 1880, vol. iii, pp. 75, 76.)
Ex. report, Coast Survey.
(Amer. Jour. Sci. February, 1881, xxi, pp. 104-111.) Separate, with follow-
ing title:
From the American Journal of Science, vol. xxi, February, 1881.
Notes on Alaska and the vicinity of Bering Strait. By W. H.
Dall, assistant in charge of schooner Yukon, employed on the
coast of Alaska; with amap. Extract from a report to C. P. Patter-
son, Superintendent Coast and Geodetic Survey.
(8vo., pp. 104-111.)

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 113

Datu, W. H. Brief account of cruise in the Arctic, with account of
land ice in Kotzebue Sound, and abstract of current observations
in Bering Strait.

Alaska forschungen im Sommer, 1880.

(Petermann’s Geogr. Mittheilungen, 1881, Heft., ii, pp. 46=47.)

Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoélogy, at Harvard
College, vol. ix, No. 2. Reports on the results of dredging under
the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico and in
the Carribbean Sea, 187779, by the United States Coast Survey
steamer Blake,” Lieutenant-Commander C. D. Sigsbee, U. S. N.,
and Commander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N., commanding.
Preliminary report on the Molluséa. By W. H. Dall. (Pub-
lished by permission of Carlile P. Patterson, Supterintendent United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey.) Cambridge: Printed for the
Museum. July-December, 1881. 8 vo., pp. 33-144.
Published in signatures, from July to December, 1881, pp. 33-48, July 12;
pp. 49-64, August 12; pp. 65-80, August 25; pp. 81-96, September 26; pp. 97-
112, October 31; pp. 113-128, November 26; pp. 128-144, Deeember 5.
GooDE, G. BRowNn. (1879~81.)—Game Fishes of the United States, by
S. A. Kilbourne; text by G. Brown Goode. New York. Published
by Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1879. Folio, pp. [46]. 20 plates and
map. Published in ten parts, each with two plates, lithographed in
color, and four pages folio of text.

Part 1.—The Atlantic salmon. [Plate.] The Eastern red-speckled
trout. [Plate.] |December, 1878.]

Part 11.—The large-mouthed black bass. [Plate and two cuts.] The
Spanish mackerel. [Plate and three cuts. |

Part 11.—The striped bass or rockfish. [Plate and two cuts.] The
red snapper. [Plate.]

Part 1v.—The bluefish. [Plate.] The yellow perch. [Plate.]

Part v.—The mackerel. [Plate and one cut.] The squeteague, or
weakfish. [Plate and one cut.]

Part vi1.—The sea bass, or Southern blackfish. [Plate.] The pom-
panose. [Plate and three cuts.]

Part vit.—The sheepshead. [Plate.] The king-fish. [Plate.]

Part vi1.—The lake or salmon trout. [Plate.} The bonito. [Plate
and cut. |

Part 1x.—The grayling. [Plate and cut.] The red fish, or Southern
bass. [Plate.]

Part x.—The quinnat, or California salmon. [Plate.] The muskel-
lunge. [Plate.] List of game fishes. Map showing geographical dis-
tribution of game fishes.

S. Mis. 109-8

114 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

GooDE, G. Brown. Descriptions of seven new species of fishes* from
deep soundings on the Southern New England coast, with diag-
noses of two undescribed genera of Flounders, and a genus related
to Merlucius.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, iii, pp. 337-351.)

Enumerates 16 species never before seen south of Cape Cod.

Fishes from the deep water on the south coast of New England,

obtained by the United States Fish Commission in the summer of

1880.

(Proc. U. 8. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 467-485. )
Enumerates 51 species known to occur outside of the hundred fathom curve

along the southern coast of New England.
The frigate Mackerel, Auxis Rochei, on the New England Coast.
(Proc. U. S.N.M., 1880, iii, pp. 532-5.)
Notacanthus phasganorus, a new species of Notacanthidz from
the Grand Banks of Newfoundland.
(Proc. U. §. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 535-537.)
Epochs in the history of fish culture. [A paper read before the

American Fish Cultural Association. ]
(Forest and Stream, xvi, pp. 311, 332, and°353.
(Trans. Amer. Fish Cultural Association, 1881.)

——— Preliminary statistical report on the fisheries of California,
Oregon, Washington, and Alaska.
(Census Bulletin, No. 176, pp. 6. Washington, Government Printing Office.
June, 1881.)
— —— The Saibling or Bavarian char.
(Forest and Stream, February 17, 1881).
—— Note on article by Capt. E.T. Deblois on the origin of the Men-
haden industry.
(Bull. U.S. F. C., i, p. 46.)
Fishermen of America.
(New York Daily Tribune, June 28, 1881.)
Notes on the life-history of the eel, chiefly derived from a study
of recent European authorities.
(Bull., U. S. F. C., i, pp. 71-124. Proc. American Fish Cultural Associa-
tion, 1881, pp. 81-123.)
The carangoid fishes of the United States, pompanoes, crevallés,
amber-fish, &c.
(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1881, i, pp. 30-43.)
GooDE, G. BRowN, and TARLETON H. BEAN.—Description of a new
species of fish, Apogon pandionis, from the deep water off the mouth

of Chesapeake Bay.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1881, iv, pp. 160-161.)

* The following are the new genera: Monolene, p. 338; Thyris, p. 344; Hypsicometes,
p. 347. The following are the new species: Monolene sessilicauda, p. 338; Citharichthys
arctifrons, p. 341; Crtharichthys wnicornis, p. 342; Thyris pellucidus, p. 344; Macrurus~
carminatus, p. 346; Hypsicometes gobioides, p. 348: Peristedium miniatum, p. 349.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 115

HAWES, GEORGE W.—The Albany granite, New Hampshire, and its

contact phenomena.
(Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, Jan., 1881, xxi, p. 21.)

On liquid carbon dioxide in smoky quartz.
(Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, March, 1882, xxi, pp. 203-9, 13 figs.)

On the mineralogical composition of the normal mesozoic dia-

base upon the Atlantic border.
(Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., iv, pp. 129-137.)

On the determination of feldspar in thin sections of rocks.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 134-6.)
JOUY, PIERRE Lovutis.—Description of a new species of Squalius (Squalus
alicie), from Utah Lake.
CBrOC Weis. Ne Me tvey Ds Lon)
See also below, under D. S. JORDAN.
RAv, CHARLES.—A boriginal stone drilling.
(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, pp. 536-542. Illustrated.)
Relating to the method employed in drilling stone by the American aborig-
ines,
Department of the Interior. U.S. Geographical and Geological
Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region, J. W. Powell in charge.
Observations on Cup-shaped and other Lapidarian Seulptures in
the Old World and in America, by Charles Rau. [From ‘Con-
tributions to North American Ethnology,” vol. v.| Washington:
Government Printing Office. 1881. 4to, pp. 102, 61 illustrations

on 35 plates.
RIDGWAY, ROBERT.—Nomenclature of North American Birds, chiefly

contained in the United States National Museum.

(Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 21. Washington: Government Printing Office,
1881. 8vo., pp. 94.)

The great need of a new catalogue of North American birds, which prompted
the publication of this list, is explained in the opening paragraph of the in-
troduction, as follows:

Since the publication, in 1859, of the last Smithsonian catalogue of North
American birds, so many important changes have been made in the nomen-
clature of the species, and so numerous have been the additions to the fauna,
that the wants of ornithologists require a new list which shall bring the sub-
ject up to date.

—— Swainson’s Warbler (Helonwa siwainsoni) in Texas.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Jan., 1881, vol. vi, p. 54.)

The range of this species was previously confined to Northern Florida and
the adjacent portions of Georgia, Alabama, and South Carolina, with some-
what doubtful records in Cubaand Southwestern Indiana. Its occurrence in
Navarro County, Texas, was communicated to the author by Mr. J. Douglas
Ogilby, a correspondent of the National Museum.

—— Ona Duck new to the North American Fauna.

(Proc. U. 8. N. M., 1881, iv, pp. 22-24.)

Based upon a specimen of Fuligula rufina (Pall.) (No. 61957) in the U. S.
National Museum, obtained in Fulton Market, New York, and presumably shot
on Long Island Sound.
116 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM,

RmGway, ROBERT.—On Amazilia yucatanensis (Cabot) and A. cervin-
wentris, Gould.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 25, 26.)

A recent authority on the Humming-birds having united the above-named
species, and the editors of ‘‘The Ibis” having suggested that an actual com-
parison of the two ‘‘ would be satisfactory,” the type specimen of the former
was borrowed for the purpose from its collector and owner, Dr. Samuel Cabot,
jr., of Boston. From this actual comparison of the two, the author was en-
abled to establish their distinctness from each another.

A Hawk new to the United States.
(Forest and Stream, Apr. 14, 1881, vol. xvi, p. 206.)
Announcement of the capture of Buteo fuliginosus, Scl., in Florida.

Southern Range of the Raven on the Atlantic Coast of the United
States.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vi, p. 118.)

The southern limit of the Raven along the Atlantic sea-board, as previously
recorded, was the coast of New Jersey; but the known range of the species
was considerably extended by the observations of the author, who, while en-
gaged in an exploration under the auspices of the National Museum, found it

. to be not uncommen on the islands near Cape Charles, Virginia.

An unaccountable migration of the Red-headed Woodpecker.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vi, pp. 120-122.)

In the autumn of 1879, this species (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), which
is ordinarily, and especially in winter, the most abundant of the Wood-
peckers in Southern Illinois, made a general migration, and did not reappear
until the following spring. The cause of this disappearance was not apparent,
since every other species of the family (six in number) were normally abund-
ant.

The Caspian Tern in California.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vi, 124.)
A notice of two specimens of Sterna (or Sylochelidon) caspia from California,
in the collection of the National Museum, being the first record of this species
' from the Pacific coast of America.

A Revised Catalogue of the Birds Ascertained to Occur in
Illinois.

(Bull. Illinois State Laboratory of Nat. Hist., May, 1881, No. 4, pp. 163-208.)

This catalogue (of 341 species) is based very largely upon collections made

by the author at Mt. Carmel and in the vicinity of Olney, Illinois, and de-
posited in the U. 8. National Museum.

A critical Review of the Genus Centurus, Swainson.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv, pp. 93-119.)

On a Tropical American Hawk to be added to the North Ameri-
can Fauna:

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Oct. 1881, vi, pp. 207-214.)
Based upon two specimens, in the collection of the National Museum, of
Buteo brachyurus Vieill. from Palatka, Florida (G, A. Bordman), and B. fuligi-
nogus Scl. from Oyster Bay, Florida (W. S. Crawford).
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 117

Ripeway, R.—List of Species of Middle and South American Birds not
contained in the United States National Museum. [Corrected to
July, 1881.}

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. iv, pp. 165-203.)

A list of all the known species of tropical American birds not represented
in the national collection, with authorities and habitats, prepared for dis-
tribution to public museums and collectors.

List of Special Desiderata among North American Birds.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. iv, pp. 207-223.)

Prepared for the use of correspondents of the National Museum and those
wishing to make exchanges. The list includes all deficiencies in the way of
desirable species, special plumages, &c., wanted to render the national col-
lection more complete.

RILEY, CHARLES V.—* Silk-culture in the United States. Condensed
account of the silkworm and how to inaugurate a new source of
wealth.

(Western Farmers’ Almanac, 1881, pp. 35-39, Fig. 14.)

Larval habits of bee-flies (Bombyliide).

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb., 1881, xv, pp. 143-145, Fig. 1-3.)

Systechus oreas parasitic on Caloptenus spretus, Bombylius major (of Europe)
on Andrena labialis. Lar¥z and pup of the two species compared; larva,
pupa, and imago of S. oreas figured.

Safe Remedies for Cabbage Worms and Potato Beetles. Ex-

periments with Pyrethrum.

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, pp. 145-147.)

Details of numerous expeg#fients, made under direction of the author, by
A. J. Cook and W. R. Hubbert, proving the efficacy of pyrethrum powder in
the destruction of those and other insects.

The food of fishes.

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, v. xv, pp. 147-148.)

Notice of 8. A. Forbes’s ‘‘ The food of fishes,” and ‘‘On the food of young
fishes.”

Insect enemies of the rice plant.

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, pp. 148-149.)

Identifies Chalepus trachypygus feeding on roots of the rice plant, and.con-
jectures that other mentioned enemies of rice may be Spalacopsis suffusa and
Centrinus concinnus. Rice plant in India injured by Cecidomyia oryza.

The ‘‘ Yellow-Fever Fly.”

(Amer. Naturalist, Feb. 1881, xv, p. 150.)

Rev. of H. A. Hagen’s The ‘‘ Yellow-Fever Fly” (Psyche, Sep., 1880,) records
occurrence of swarms of Sciara in the imago state.

The United States Entomological Commission [C. V. Riley, A.

8. Packard, jr., Cyrus Thomas], (Department of the Interior). Second
report for the year 1878 and 1879 relating to the Rocky Mountain
locust and the western cricket, and treating of the best means of
subduing the locust in its permanent breeding grounds, with a view
of preventing its migrations into the more fertile portions of the
trans-Mississippi country, in pursuance of appropriations made by
Congress for this purpose ;—with maps and illustrations. Wash.,

* This list has been kindly prepared by Mr. B. Pickman Mann.
118 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Continued.

1880 [March, 1881], 18 + 522 + 80, p.17 pl., each plate with one leaf
explanation, map 1, in 6 pts., map 2-4, 9 fig.

Extract from chap. 13, by Riley, entitled ‘‘ Larval habits of bee-flies.”
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, v. xv, pp. 438-447, pl.6.) Germ. br. of part of p.
260, entitled ‘‘ Lpicauta vittata aus Kiern zuerziehen”, (Entom. Nachr., Aug.
1881.)

Separate of chap. 13, author’s ed., by Riley, with half t. p. cover and half
t.p., entitled *‘The Rocky Mountain locust.” Further facts about the nat-
ural enemies of locusts [Wash.], 1880. -+ p. 259-271, pl. 16, with one leaf expl.
of pl.

Separte of chap. 14, author’s ed., by Riley, with half t. p. cover and half t.
p., entitled “The Rocky Monntain locust. Permanent courses for the gov-
erdment to adopt to lessen or avert locustinjury.” [Wash.] 1880. + p. 271-
322; map 1, in 6 parts.

Notes on the grape Phylloxera and on laws to prevent its intro-

duction.

(Amer. Naturalist, March, 1881, xv, pp. 238-241.)

Summary of life history of Phylloxera vastatrix. Proper precautions to be
adopted against the introduction of the pest into uninfected countries.

Hibernation of the Cotton Worm moth; ease with which
mistakes are made.
(Amer. Naturalist, March, 1881, xv, pp.-244-245, Figs. 1-3.)

Imago of Leucania unipuncta mistaken for that of Aletia argillacea, in Texas;
distinctive characteristics of the two species; figures imagos of both species
and ovipositor of the former.

—— General Index and supplement to the nine Reports on the

insects of Missouri.

(U. S. Entomological Commission, Bulletin No. 6, Wash., 24 March, 1881,
t. p. cover, pp. 1-178.)

Introduction, pp. 5-7. Tables of contents of the reports, pp. 9-45. Cor-
rections of errata, pp. 46-51. Notes and additions of the most important
facts ascertained about insects treated in the reports [with later or more cor-
rect nomenclature], pp. 52-63. Descriptions of new species and varieties [re-
printed from the reports with notes and corrections], pp. 64-90. List of de-
scriptions of adolescent states [referring to previously published descriptions
of the same when any exist], pp. 91-95. List of descriptions of adolescent
states [referring to previously published descriptions of the same when any
exist], pp. 91-95. List of descriptions, mostly amplified, of species not new,
pp. 96-97. List of illustrations [arranged in serial order, designating those
not original], pp. 98-118. Classified list of illustrations [in systematic order],
pp. 119-123. General index, pp. 125-166. Index to plants and food-plants,
pp. 167-177. Errata [in this work], p. 178.

Notes on North American Microgasters, with description of new

species.

(Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, iv, No. 2, pp. 295-315; il.)

Separate [St. Louis], 6 April, 1881, 4 t. p. cover + 20 p., 23 x 16, il. Habits
and characteristics of the group; three genera distinguished; formations of
cocoons (il.); describes two new species of Microplitis and ten of Apanteles ;
also several forms of Apanteles congregatus and larva of A. aletiw; figures
imago of A. aletia and several cocoon masses; habits of the species; reference
list of the (23) described N. A. species.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 119

RILEY, CHARLES V.—On some interactions of organisms.
(Amer. Naturalist, April 1881, xv, p. 323, 324.)
Abstract of and comments on §. A. Forbes’s ‘‘ On some interactions of or-
ganisms” (Bull. Ill. State laboratory of Nat. History, No. 3).

— Legislation to control insects injurious to vegetation.

(Farmers’ Review, Jan. 20,1881. Reprint Amer. Naturalist, April, 1881, xv,
pp. 322-323. Indiana Farmer, April 15, 1881.)

Agricultural advancement in the United States. Reprint,
entitled ‘Agricultural advancement in the United States.” Ad-
dress at the organization of the American Agricultural Association,
December, 1879.

(Journ. Amer. Agric. Assoc., April, 1881, i, pp. 47-54.)

Account of the measures adopted by the governments of England, Ger-
many, and France for the promotion of agriculture ; criticism of the U. S.
Department of Agriculture and suggestions for its reorganization; how the
present association can do its work best.

The Periodical Cicada, alias ‘“‘ Seventeen-year Locust.”
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp., 479-482, Fig. 1.)

A new species of oak Coccid, mistaken for a gall.

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, p. 482.)

Description of Kermes galliformis, n. sp., occurring on Quercus palustris in
the southern and central U. 8.; the Coccid often infested by a parasitic Lep-
idopter, Euclemensia bassettella.

——_ The “ Water-weevil” of the rice plant.
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 482-483.)

Reasons for presuming that the “‘ maggot ” of rice-fields is the larva of Lis-
sorhoptrus simplex ; habits and seasons of appearance.

The impregnated egg of Phylloxera vastatrixz.

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 483-484.)

Establishment of the author’s prediction, made in 1875, that the impreg-
nated egg of Phylloxera vastatric would be found to hatch in the same season
in which it was laid.

Works on North American Micro-lepidoptera.

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 484-486.)

Review of Lord Walsingham’s [T. de Grey’s] ‘‘Illustrations of typical
specimens of Lepidoptera heterocera . . . pt. 4,” and of his ‘‘Pterophoride
of California and Oregon ;” discussion of the new genera erected therein.

Moths mistaken for Aletia.
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 486-487.)

Seale insect on raspberry.
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, p. 487.)

Specific value of Apartura alicia, Edw.
(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, p. 487.)

—— The caterpillar nuisance. How to suppress it.
(Evening Star [Washington, D. C.], 24th June, 1881. Amer. Naturalist,
Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 747-748, fig.)
120 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Plant-feeding habits of predaceous beetles.
(Amer. Naturalist, April, 1881, xv, pp. 325-327.)
Brings together various testimonies to prove that certain Carabide and Coc-
cinellide feed upon vegetal matter, referring to published articles on the sub-
ject.

Notes on Papilio philenor.

(Amer. Naturalist, April 1881, xv, pp. 327-329, Fig. 1-3.)

Describes egg and newly-hatched larva; figures imago, larva, and pupa;
notes on distribution and food-plant (Aristolochia.)

Larval habits of Bee-flies.

(Amer. Naturalist, June, 1881, xv, pp. 438-447, pl. 6.)

Extract from chap. 13 of 2drept. U. 8S. Entom. Commission. Parasitism of
larvie of Triodites mus and Systoechus oreas oneggsof Camnula pellucida ; review
of previous knowledge of the larval history of Bombyliida, with references to the
several accounts of observations; description of larve and pup of T. mus
and S. oreas, and figures of these and of the imagos,

Additional notes on the Army worm, Leucania wnipuncta.

(Proc. Amer. Assoc., Advane. Sci. for 1881, xxix, p. 640.)

Revision of views set forth in op. cit. for 1876, 1877, v. 25, pt. 2, p.279: num-
ber of annual generations two to several, according to latitude; both larva
and imago hibernate, probably pupa also; the insects may occur in destruc-
tive numbers from natural increase or from immigration ; they breed natur-
ally in all old, neglected fields; dry seasons favorable to the increase of the
insects in the following year.

Some recent practical results of the cotton worm inquiry by
the U. S. Entomological Commission.
(Prog. Amer. Assoc, Advance. Sci., 1881, xxix, p. 642.)

Statement of principles established in the natural history of Aletia argilla-
cea, which have a practical bearing ;. the best poisons for the insects are Paris
green, London purple, pyrethrum, and oils; methods of applying these poi-
sons.

The hitherto unknown life-habits of two genera of bee-flies,
bombyliide.
(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advance. Sci., 1881, xxix, pt. 2, p. 649.)

Lepidopterological notes.

(Papilio, July, 1881, i, pp. 106-110.)

From advance sheets of Bulletin 6, U.S. Entom. Commission. Synonymical
and biological notes, with references to literature concerning Plusia brassicae,
Gorlyna nitela, Anomis xylina, Pempelia grossularia, Penthina vitivorana, Er-
demis botrana, Euryptychia saligneana, Hedya scudderiana, Anchylopera fragarie,
Tortrix cinderella and T. malivorana and T. vacciniivorana, Teras oxycoccana,
Oeta compta and Tinea pustulella and Deiopeia aurea-Oeta punctella; describes
eges of Teras oxycoccana and Octa punctella.

The Periodical Cicada, alias “‘Seventeen-year Locust.”

(Farmers’ Beview, June 16, 1881.)

Statement of localities in which Cicada septemdecim Linn will occur in 1881,
and also of those in a thirteen-year race (tredecim Riley) will appear.
RERORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 121

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Locusts and Locusts. A letter from Professor C.
V. Riley. The head of the United States Entomological Commis-
sion explains the difference between the periodical Cicada and the
true Locust: thirteen- and seventeen-year broods: no especial cause
for alarm this year.

(New York Tribune, June 22, 1881.)

Popular confusion of insects having very different habits under the term
“locust.” Comparative account of Cicada septemdecim with Caloptenus spretus.
No cause for the alarm as to true locust depredations. Recommendation of a
system of observations and warnings by the Government.

The Rocky Mountain Locust, alias Western Grasshopper.
(American Agriculturist, July, 1881, vol. xl, p. 283, 284, fig. 1-6.)
Popular condensed statement of habits and remedies for Caloptenus spretus.

A remarkable case of retarded development.

(Scientific American, Aug. 20, 1881.)

Preservation of eggs of Caloptenus spretus unhatched for more than four
years by their burial in a cool, moist and almost air-tight place, at Manhat-
tan, Kansas, 1876-1581; influence of temperature on acceleration and retar-
dation of development.

The Rocky Mountain Locust, alias Western Grasshopper.

(Amer. Agriculturist, July, 1881, Fig. 1-6.)

Dimorphism in Cynipide.

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, p. 566.)

Claim of priority in proof of dimorphism in Cynipide in N. A. ; reference to
previous views of Walsh and Bassett; extract from H. Adler’s “ Uber den
Generationswechsel der Eichen-Gallwespen” (Zeitschr. fiir wiss. Zool., Feb.,
1881, Bd. 35, p. 151 —), comprising a list of the’19 specimens in which the
occurrence of dimorphic forms has been proven.

Blepharoceride.

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, p. 567-568. )

Account of various investigations into the natural history of Blepharoceride ;
description of the larvae and pupx.

The cultivation of Pyrethrum and manufacture of the pow-
der.
(Amer. Naturalist, July, Sept., and Oct., 1881, pp. 569-572; pp. 744-746; and
pp. 817-819.)

Covering of egg-puncture mistaken for Dorthesia.

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, p. 574.)

In the collection of Asa Fitch the white and ribbed waxy material cover-
ing the egg-punctures of Enchophyllum binotatum are labeled as Dorithesia
viburni and D. celastri. It is doubtful whether any such species were de-
seribed by Fitch.

Supposed Army-worm in New York and other Eastern States.

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, pp. 574-577.)

Ravages of Nephelodes violans and Crambus vulgivagellus, in New Jersey,
Long Island, and Northern New York—natural history, vernacular name, and
detailed description of larva of the former species.
122 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM,

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Classification of the mites.

(Amer. Naturalist, July, 1881, xv, pp. 577-578.)

Abstract of letter from Dr. G. Haller, in which he states that Acarina
have three pairs of maxillz, a true labium with palpi, two pairs of abdomi-
nal and [two pairs of] cephalothoracic legs; he does not consider that they
belong to the Arachnida, but believes they are much more nearly allied to
the Crustacea, and must form a fifth class of Arthropoda, equivalent to Crus-
tacea, Myriapoda, Arachnida, and Hexapoda.

Further notes on the pollination of Yucca and on Pronuba and

Prodoxus.
(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advane. Sci., 1881, xxix, pt. 2, pp. 617-639, Fig. 1-16.)

Separate. (Further notes [etc.])

[Salem, July, 1881, ] pp. 1-28, Fig. 1-16.)

Recapitulation of observed facts concerning Pronuba yuccasella and its con-
nection with the pollination of Yucca; describes and figures the generic and
specific characters of Pronuba, P. yuccasella, P. maculata n. sp., Prodoxus, P.
decipiens, P. intermedius n. sp., P. marginatus n. sp., P. cinereus n. sp., P. wnes-
cens n. sp., Hyponomeuta, H. malinella, H. multipunctella; establishes and char-
acterizes the new family Prodoxide (Tineina) for Pronuba and Prodoxus; dis-
cusses the structure of the ovipositor in lepidoptera, and the habits and func-
tions of Pronuba yuccasella and Prodoxus decipiens; proposes to restrict the
prior trivial name quinquepunctella [proposed for a Yponomeuta] to that form
of Prodoxus decipiens which it proves to be, and cites the trivial name para-
doxica [used without description] as a synonym of P. decipiens.

The periodical Cicada.
(Amer. Agriculturist, Aug., 1881, Fig. 1-5.)
—— Blepharoceride.
(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 748.)
Records the discovery, by J. Q. Adams, of pups and imagos of Blepharo-
ceride at Watertown, N. Y.

Remarkable case of retarded development.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 748-749.)

Eggs of Caloptenus spretus, buried about 25 em. under ground, remained un-
hatched and alive for four and one-half years, at Manhattan, Kansas, and
hatched upon being exhumed.

The Hessian fly.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 750.)
Report of extensive damage done by Cecidomyia destructor in Illinois and
Missouri; abundance of this insect in the Western [prairie] States.

The genuine Army-worm in the West.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 750.)

A new imported enemy to clover.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 750-751.)

Trifolium injured by Phytonomus punctatus at Barrington, N. Y., in July, 1881.
Another enemy of the rice plant.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, p. 751.)
Oryza ezativa greatly injured in Georgia, in the summer of 1881, by the larva
of Laphygma frugiperda.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 123

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Lepidopterological notes.

(Amer. Naturalist, Sept., 1881, xv, pp. 751-752.)

Notes on Ageria acerni, Hyphantria textor, Callimorpha fulvicosta, Samia co-
lumbia, Callosamia angulifera, Celana renigera and Prodenia autumnalis.

Notes on Hydrophilus triangularis.

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp, 814-817, Fig. 1-2.)

Notes on the life-history of H. triangularis: figures eggs, egg-cases, larva,
pupa, and imago.

Migration of plant-lice from one plant to another.

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp. 819-820.)

Review and indorsement of Lichtenstein’s views.

The Chinch Bug.

(Amer. Naturalist, Oct., 1881, xv, pp. 820-821.)
Notice of Thomas’s predictions, and of the occurrence of Blissus leucopterus
on rice and ‘‘sand oats.”

— —— The Permanent Subsection of Entomology at the recent meet-
ing of the A. A. A.S.
(Amer. Naturalist, Nov. and Dec., 1881: xv, pp. 909-912; and pp. 1008-1011.)

— — ‘The new imported clover enemy.

Habits of Phytonomus punctatus, and of other species of the genus.

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, pp. 912-914.)

Crambus vulgivagellus. (Description of its eggs.)

(Amer. Naturalist, Noy., 1881, xv, pp. 914-915.)

[Address delivered 4 Nov., 1881, at the cotton convention held
in Atlanta, Ga., 2 Nov., 1881.] (U.S. Department of Agriculture.)
Address of Hon. Geo. B. Loring, Commissioner of Agriculture, and
other proceedings of the cotton convention [ete.], Wash., 1881, pp.
19-35.

Beneficial and injurious influence of insects; methods of counteracting in-
jurious insects; ravages and natural history of and search for means against
Aletia argillacea; improved methods and contrivances for the application of
poisons to plants; discussion on the address.

Larval habits of Sphenophori that attack corn.

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, pp. 915-916.)

Mentions several species of Sphenophorus injurious to maize plants in dif-
ferent parts of the United States; habits and ravages of S. robustus.

Effect of drought on the Hessian fly.

(Amer. Naturalist, Nov., 1881, xv, p. 916.)
Hot and dry weather dries up and kills Cecidomyia destructor and its parasites.

Retarded Development in Insects.
(Amer. Naturalist, Dec., 1881, xv, pp. 1007-1008. )

Eggs of Caloptenus spretus rethined their vitality four and one-half years
under abnormal environment, and then hatched on exposure to normal en-
vironment; speculations on the cause of the phenomena of retardation of
development.
124 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RimLEY CHARLES V.—Another herbivorous Ground-beetle.
(Amer. Naturalist, Dec., 1881, xv, p. 1011.)
Anisodactylus confusus injuring strawberry plants in California.
A disastrous sheep parasite.
(Amer. Naturalist, Dec., 1881, xv, p. 1011.)
Trichodectes ovis doing great injury to flocks of sheep in Illinois.

Resistance of grape-vines to Phylloxera in sandy soil.
(Amer. Naturalist, Dee., 1881, xv, pp. 1012-1013.)

Locusts in the West in 1881.
(Amer. Naturalist, Dec., 1881, xv, p. 1013.)

The Chinch Bug.

(Amer. Agriculturist, November, 1881, vol. xl, p. 476, fig. 1-3; ibid., Decem-
ber, 1881, vol. xl, p. 515, fig. 1-4.)

Destructive powers, food-plants, characters, habits, natural history, meteor-
ological conditions affecting, natural enemies of, and means of coping with
Blissus leucopterus, Say. Describes as enemies Anthocoris insidiosus, Harpactor
cinctus, and Nysius destructor; also some false or bogus chinch bugs. Lays
stress on value of irrigation.

Peach Tree Bark-borer. Important note from Professor C. V.

Riley.
(Rural New Yorker, Dec. 24, 1881.)
Account of injuries to peach trees of a beetle, Phloiotribus liminaris, Harr.

SHUFELDT, kh. W., M. D.—The Claw on the Index Finger of the Ca-
thartide.
(Amer. Naturalist, November, 1881, xv, pp. 906-908. )
An important osteological paper based upon material in the collection of
the National Museum.
On the Ossicle of the Antibranchium as found in some of the
North American Faleonide.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club., Oct., 1881, vol. vi, pp. 197-203.)
An important osteological paper based chiefly on material contained in
the Mational Museum collection.
WARD, LESTER I*.—Evolution of the Chemical Elements.

(Popular Science Monthly, February, 1880, pp. 526-539.) |
A discussion of the theory of development as applied to the elements and |
|

consideration of the facts recently revealed by spectrum analysis seeming to
favor the theory.
Previously read before the Philosophical Society of Washington.

Incomplete Adaptation as illustrated by the History of Sex in |
Plants.

(Amer. Naturalist, February, 1881, pp. 89-95.)

Read before the Biological Section of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science at Boston August 27, 1880.

The paper shows that there exist, in nearly all departments of the vege- |
table kingdom, successive degrees to which the process of sexual differentia-
tion has attained, and that in many cases there are obvious indications that
this process is still going on.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 125

WARD, LESTER F'.—Pre-Social Man.

(Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of mraclington:
for the years ending January 20, 1880, and January 18, 1881, pp. 68-71, being
the abstract of a paper read before the Society April 20, 1880.)

The anatomical characters distinguishing the human form from that of the
most highly developed anthropoids are enumerated, and the several physical
causes considered which seem to have been most potent in securing their de-
velopment.

Savage and Civilized Orthoépy.

(Loe. cit., pp. 106-111 being the abstract of a paper read before the Society
December 21, 1880.)
This paper consisted, principally, of remarks and strictures on the first
chapter of the Introduction to the Study of Indian Languages, by J. W. Powell,
| Ph. D., Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, which treats of the pronuncia-
tion of Indian and other languages.

Politico-Social Functions.

(Penn. Monthly, May, pp. 321-336. Read before the Anthropological So-
ciety of Washington March 15, 1881.)

The right, power, and duty of society to regulate its own operations are
argued, and the progress which has taken place toward this end in various
countries is reviewed.

Field and Closet Notes on the Flora of Washington and
Vicinity.

(Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, 1881, vol. iv, pp. 64-
119. Read before the Society January 22, 1881.)

The paper embraces, among other sub-titles, a Comparison of Flora of 1830,
with that of 1880; a description of the Localities of Special Interest to the Bot-
anist ; a consideration of the Flowering-time of Plants ; a Statistical View of the
Flora as compared with other floras; an enumeration of the most Abundant
Species; a statement of the most approved Classification Adopted by botanists;
remarks on Common Names, and a Summary by Orders and larger groups of the
number of genera and species found growing in the vicinity of Washington.

WHITE, CHARLES A., on certain Cretaceous fossils from Arkansas and
Colorado.

(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv, p. 136-139. 1 pl.)

II.—PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM.

BENDIRE, CAPT. CHARLES, U. S. A.—Notes on Salmonide of the Up-
per Columbia.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv, pp. 81-87.)

BREWSTER, WILLIAM.—Notes on some Birds from Arizona and New
Mexico, with a description of a supposed new Whip-poor-will.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 65-73.)
Antrostomus vociferus arizone, var. nov. (p. 69), is based partly on the ex-
amination of specimens contained in the collection of the National Mr seum.
126 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

BREWSTER, WILLIAM.—Critical notes ona Petrelnew to North America.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 91-97.)

A specimen of an @strelata captured alive in a plowed field at Mount Mor-
ris, Livingston County, New York, was identified by Mr. Brewster by com-
parison with the type specimen in the National Museum, as @. gularis
(Peale). .

On the affinities of certain Polioptila, with a description of a

new species.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 101-107.)

Based largely on specimens in the collection of the National Museum,
among which are the types of P. californica Brewst., sp. noy. (p. 103).

CoLuins, Capt. J. W.—Gill-nets in the cod fishery: A description of
the Norwegian cod nets, with directions for their use, and a history
of their introduction into the United States.

(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1881, vol. i, pp. 1-17, 12 pl.)

ENDLICcH, F'. M.—An analysis of water destructive to fishin the Gulf of
Mexico.

(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 124.)

FARLOW, W. G.—Report on the contents of two bottles of water from

the Gulf of Mexico; forwarded by the Smithsonian Institution.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 234.)

GARMAN, SAMUEL.—Synopsis and descriptions of the American Rhino-
batide.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 516-523.)

GILL, THEODORE.—Note on the Latiloid genera.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1881, iv, pp. 162-164.)

GLAZIER, W. C. W., ASSISTANT SURGEON, M. H. S.—On the destrue-
tion of fish by polluted waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 126-127.)

GURNEY, JOHN HENRY.—Note on Onychotes grueberi, Ridgway.
(The Ibis (London), July, 1881, 4th ser., vol. v, pp. 396-398, pl. xii.)

This article and the fine plate accompanying it is based on the two type
specimens in the U. 8. National Museum collection, the only examples of the
species known to exist.

HARGER, OSCAR.—Report on the Marine Isopoda, of New England,
and adjacent waters.
(Rept. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, part vi, pp. 297-462, plates i-xiii).

“The following paper includes the species of Isopoda at present known to
inhabit the coast of New England and the adjacent region, as far as Nova
Scotia on the north and New Jersey on the south.” This is a very complete
account of all the New England Isopods known up to the date of publication,
full descriptions being given of all the families, genera, and species, and de-
tailed figures of all the species. Fourteen families, 34 genera, and 46 species
are described ; of these one genus and one species (Syscenus infelix) are new.
An account of the geographical distribution of the species described is given,
followed by a table illustrating their geographical and balthymetrical range
in detail, and a list of the authorities quoted.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 127

Hay, O. P.—On a collection of fishes from eastern Mississippi.

(Proc. U.S. N.M., 1880, iii, pp. 488-515.)

The following new species are described: Ammocrypta gelida, Hadropterus
spillmani, Nanostoma elegans, Pecilichthys artesie, P. saxatilis, Vaillantia chloro-
soma, Microperca preliaris, Alburnops taurocephalus, Alburnops longirostris, Hem-
itremia maculata, Luxilus chickasavensis, Opsopwodus (n. g.) emilie, Minnilus
punctulatus, Minnilus rubripinnis, Minnilus bellus.

HENSHAW, H. W.—On Podiceps occidentalis and P. clarkii.
(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Oct., 1881, vi, pp. 214-218).
A critical comparison of the above-named forms, based chiefly on speci-
mens in the collection of the National Museum.

INGERSOLL, ERNEST.—On the fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 74-80.)
JOHNSON, S. H.—Notes on the mortality among fishes of the Gulf of
Mexico.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, p. 205.)
JORDAN, DAvip S.—Description of a new species of Caranx (Caranx
Beani), from Beaufort, North Carolina.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 486-488. )
JORDAN, DAVID S., and CHARLES H. GILBERT.—Description of a new
species of Nemichthys (Nemichthys avocetta), from Puget Sound.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 409-410.)
Description of a new species of Paralepis (Paralepis coruscans),
from the Straits of Juan de Fuca.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 411-413.)
—_ List of the fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States, with a
table showing the distribution of the species.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 452-458. )
On the generic relations of Belone ewxilis Girard.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, p. 459.)
Notes on a collection of fishes from Utah Lake.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 459-465.
Description of a new species of “Rock Fish” (Sebastichthys
chrysomelas) from the coast of California.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 465-466. )
— Notes on the fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv, pp. 29-70, Apr. 13-30, 1881.)
Description of Sebastichthys mystinus.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv, pp. 70-72.)
Description of a new species of Ptychochilus (Ptychochilus Har-
fordi) from Sacramento River.
(Proc. U. S. N.M., iv, pp. 72-73.)
Note on Raia inornata.
(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv, pp. 73-74.)

128 . REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

JORDAN, Davip S8., and PreRRE L. Jovy. Check list of duplicates
of fishes from the Pacific coast of North America, distributed by
the Smithsonian Institution in behalf the United States National
Museum, 1881.

(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv., pp. 1-18.)

LAWRENCE, GEORGE N.—Description of a new subspecies of Loxigilla
from the island of St. Christopher, West Indies.
(Proc. U.S. N. M., iv, p. 204.)
Loxigilla portoricensis var. grandis, types in collection of the National Mu-
seum,
LockiIneTon, W. N.—Description of a new species of (Prionotus ste-
phanophrys) from the coast of California.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 529-532.)

—  — Description of a new genus and species of Cottide.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 141-144.)—( Chitonotus megacephalus. )
McKay, CHARLES L.—A review of the genera of the family Centrar-
chide, with a description of one new species.
(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv, pp. 87-93.)

Moore, M. A.—Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico.
(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv, pp. 125-126.)
PORTER, JOSEPH Y., ASSISTANT SURGEON, U.S. A.—On the destruc-
tion of fish by poisonous water in the Gulf of Mexico.
(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv., pp. 121-123.)

RyDER, J. A.—Preliminary notice of the more important scientific re-
sults obtained from a study of the embryology of fishes.
(Bull. U. 8. F. G., i, pp. 22-23.)
Notes on the development, spinning habits, and structure of the
four-spined stickleback.
(Bull. U. 8. F.‘C., i, pp. 24-29.)
— Development of the Spanish mackerel (Cybiuwm maculatum).
(Bull. U.S. F. C., i, pp. 185-178, 4 pl.)
On the retardation of the development of the ova of the shad,
(Alosa sapidissima), with observations on the egg-fungus and bac-
teria. *
(Bull. U.S. F. C., i, pp. 177-190.)

A contribution to the development and morphology of the Lo-
phobranchiates—(Hippocampus antiquorum, the sea horse).
(Bull. U. S. F. C., i, pp. 191-199, 1 pl.)

ScLaTER, P. L.—Remarks on the recently described parrots of the
genus Chrysotis.
(The Ibis [London], July, 1881, 4th ser., v, pp. 411-414.)
Based in part upon National Museum Specimens.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. *° 129

SHOEMAKER, GrEoRGE.—Abundance of the Hermit Thrush in Winter
near Washington, D. C.
(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, April, 1881, vol. vi, pp. 113, 114.)

A specimen of the above-named species was obtained January 1, the mer-
cury registering — 14°, and isnow inthe National Museum collection. The
species was quite common during the coldest weather of the severe winter of
1880-81.

SmitH, Rosa.—Description of a new gobioid fish (Othonops eos), from
San Diego, California.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., iv, pp. 19-21.)
Synonym of Typhlogobius californiensis Steind.—See Proc., iv, 140.
Description of a new species of Gobiesox (Gobiesox rhessodon),

from San Diego, California.
(Proc. U. 8. N. M., iv, pp. 140-141.)

SmituH, S. .—Preliminary notice of the crustacea dredged, in 64 to
325 fathoms, off the”south coast of New England by the United
States Fish Commission in 1880.

(Proc. U.S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 413-452.)

An enumeration of the principal crustacea obtained by the United States
Fish Commission, in 1880, from the inner edge of the Gulf Stream slope,
south of Newport, R. I., with notes on the previously-known species and de-
scriptions of one new genus and fourteen new species. - Four additional
species are mentioned as new without descriptions. The total number of
species recorded is 50. The paper closes with a table showing the geo-
graphical and bathymetrical range of the species.

Stone, Livinegston.—Mortality of McCloud River Salmon in 1881.
(BalieWSok. ©. ps 134.)

VERRILL, A. E.—The Cephalopods of the Northeastern Coast of America.
Part u. The Smaller Cephalopods, including the “ Squids” and
Octopi, with other allied forms.

(Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and Sci., 1881, vol. v, pp. 259-424, plates 26-56. )
This “is a monographic revision, with descriptions and figures of all the
species. A considerable anount of anatomical work is also introduced,
Most of the species had previously been noticed in different articles in the
American Journal of Science. Among those not previously described are
Chiroteuthis lacertosa, Brachioteuthis Beanii, gen. et. sp. nov., Iossia megapiera.
A new genus (Stoloteuthis) has also been established for Sepiola leucop-
tera V.” : 2 tae
New England Annelida. Parti. Historical sketch, with an-
notated lists of the species hitherto recorded.
(Trans. Conn. Acad., 1881, vol. iv, pp. 285-324.)
‘Tn connection with the annotation, a considerable number of changes in
nomenclature are introduced, and a few new genera are established.”
Recent papers on the marine invertebrata of the Atlantic coast
of North America:

(Am. Journ. Sci., Nov., 1881, vol. xxii.) A list with brief notes.
S. Mis. 109 9

130 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM

VERRILL, A. E.—Notice of Recent Additions to the Marine Inverte-
brata of the northeastern coast of America, with descriptions of
. new genera and species and critical remarks on others. Part
11.—Mollusea, with notes on Annelida, Echinodermata, ete., col
lected by the United States Fish Commission.
(Proc. U. S. N. M., 1880, iii, pp. 356-405. )

Part 111.—Catalogue of Mollusca recently added to the Fauna

of Southern New England.

(Proce. U. S. N. M., 1880, ili, pp. 405-409. )

Part 1 of this report begins with an account of the dredgings made by the
U. S. Fish Commission, south of Newport, R. I. in 1880, and a list of the
deep-water stations one hundred and forty species of Mollusca are recorded,
of which one genus and 22 species are new; 96 additional species are stated
to be new additions to the North American marine fauna, including 25 species
recently described from the collections of 1880. Two new species of annelids
are also described. Part 111 is a table illustrating the geographical and ba-
thymetrical distribution of 130 species of M~llusca, recently added to the
fauna of Southern New England, mainly through the dredgings of the U.S.
Fish Commission of 1880.

Notice of the remarkable Marine Fauna occupying the outer

banks off the Southern coast of New England.
Brief Contributions to Zoology from the museum of Yale College. No.
xlviii. )

(Am. Journ. Sci., Oct., 1881, vol. xxii, pp. 282-303.)

A general account of the dredging operations of the U. S. Fish Commis-
sion, during the summerof 1881. A list of the deep-water stations south of
Martha’s Vineyard, with temperature observations, is given, and also a list
of the deep-water fishes, so far as determined up to date of publication, by
Dr. T. H. Bean. A list of the Cephalopods obtained from deep water. is in-
eluded, and five new species of Gasteropods and Lamellibranchs are de-

scribed.

Reports on the Results of Dredging, under the supervision of
Alexander Agassiz, by the United States Coast Survey steamer
‘“ Blake.” Report on the Cephalopods, and on some additional
species dredged by the United States ,Fish Commission steamer
“ Fish Hawk,” during the season of 1880.

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, 1881, viii. pp. 99-166. 8 plates.)

WILson, EpMUND B.—Report on the Pycnogonida of New England

and ‘Adjacent Waters.
(Rep’t U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, part vi, pp. 463-506, plates i-vii.)
“Anaccount of our present knowledge of the species of Pyenogonida, known
to occur upon the coasts of New England and Nova Scotia, comprising de-
scriptions and figures of all the forms, and an account of their geographical
and bathymetrical distribution.” A synopsis of the genera is given. Nine
genera and fifteen species are described, two species (Achelia scabra and
Nymphon macrum) being new.

we

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 131

APPENDIX C.—LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE MUSEUM
IN 1881.

Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. (See Philadelphia.)

Adams, J. C. A water-worn pebble of Trenton limestone, containing
the fossil Receptaculites occidentalis ; from Wisconsin. (For examina-
tion.)

Adams, J. Q. Living salamander (Amblystoma punctatum) and eggs

of horned toad (Phrynosoma ?) ; from New York.

Allen, Charles. Seventy-six specimens of Pennsylvania building stones
and slates.

Albert, J. C., Paoli, Ind. Eleven specimens of Indiana building
stones.

Allen, Charles A. Box of birds’ skins (Colaptes, Zonotrichia, ete.) ; from
California.

Allen, Rev. J. Stone pipe, tube, and ring; from New York. (Lent for
casting.)

Alice Gold and Silver Mining Company, Montana. Specimens of gold
and silver bearing Galena and Rhodochrosite, ete.

Allcock, S. & Co., Redditch, England. Three snoods with patent covers
for protection of hooks.

Allison, Hon. W. Specimen of coal; from Iowa. (Sent for examina-
tion.)

American Encaustic Tiling Company, New York. Fourteen samples of
floor tiles.

American Museum of Natural History, New York. (See New York.)

Anderson, Capt. Charles, schooner Alice G. Wonson. Two bottles of al-
coholic specimens of fishes.

Anglo-American Packing Company, Astoria, Oregon. Two samples of
cans and labels used in the packing of salmon.

Anthropological Society, Washington, D.C. (See Washington, D. C.)

Ash, Charles Ei. (through Samuel Albro). Forty-five pearls taken from
a single oyster found in Providence Bay. ie

Ashburner, Charles. Twenty-one specimens of Pennsylvania building
stones.

Aspinwall & Son, New York. Samples of floor tiling.

Astoria Packing Company, Astoria, Oregon. Samples of cans and labels
used in the packing of salmon.

Atkins, Hon. J. D. C. Specimens of coal and ore; from Tennessee.
(Sent for examination.)

Atkinson, Hon. Edward. <A large number of samples of manufactured
cotton from yarious mills in the United States.
‘

132 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Atwood, H. E. Five microscopic slides of the water of Hemlock Lake,
New York.

Auckland, (N. Z.\ Museum. A keg of alcoholic specimens of New Zealand
fishes (IKathetostoma, Acanthoclinus, Latris, Zeus, Pagrus, Khombosolea,
etc.)

Austin Flagstone Company, Warren, Ohio. Twospecimens of Ohio build-
ing-stones

Australian Museum (Sydney, New South Wales). <A collection of Aus-
tralian mammals (fifteen species), fishes (sixty-seven species), reptiles
(twelve species), and echinoderms (five species).

Babbitt, F. HE. Specimens of chipped quartz; from Minnesota.

Babcock, Master C. EB: Starfish and shell of king-crab; from Cape
Henry, Va.

Babcock, Dr. S. E. A small collection of Indian relics—pipes, arrow-
heads, axes, ete. ; from South Carolina.

Bacon, A. W., Paymaster, U. S. Navy. <A collection of butterflies from
Central and Western Africa and Brazil.

Badollet G Co., Astoria, Oregon. Samples of cans and labels used in
packing salmon. -

Bahne, William. Specimens of lamprey eels from the Susquehanna
River, and foot of mink taken from trap; from Pennsylvania.

Bailey, George K. Two specimens of Maryland building:stones.

Baird. Prof. S. F. Cake of ‘Turtle Oil” soap, R. Low & Son, makers,
London, England.

Baker, G. C. Specimens of fossils, minerals, and arrow-heads; from
Missouri.

Baker, Marcus, Assistant, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Skull
of walrus with tusks ; from Plover Bay, Eastern Siberia.

Baker, Thomas E. Specimen of Tuckahoe; from Arkansas.

Baker, W. OC. Specimen of Melanura; from Michigan.

Baldwin, Miles C. (through John B. Wiggins). A collection of fossil,
shells; from Tioga County, New York.

Bangs, Ff. D. A specimen of fresh-water sheepshead (Haploidonotus
grunniens) sold as ‘German carp” in markets of Waterbury, Conn.

Barker, Henry L.. Specimens of living snakes, terrapins, mud-eels,
amphiumas, ete.; from South Carolina.

Barker, Wiliam P. Wuman skull and jaw-bones and fragments of pot-
tery ; from mound in Alabama.

Barkley, W. F. Samples of coke and coal; from Connellsville, Pa.

Barney, George and R. J., Swanton, Vt. Five samples of marble floor-
tiling.

Barnun, Hon. P. T. A specimen of leopard, in flesh.

Bartlett, J. H.,and Sons, New Bedford, Mass. A whaleboat and fittings
as ready for service at sea. (Purchased ?)

Baumeister, H., Portland, Me. Samples of cans and labels used in pack-
ing herring, ete.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 133

Beach, H. Arrow-point; from Wisconsin. Also eight copper imple-
ments lent for casting.

Bean, George. Two flax-hackles, one pair andirons, sickles, and one
lard-oil lamp; from Pennsylvania.

Bean, Dr. T. H. Spear-heads and Venetian bead; from Pennsylvania ;
and a polishing stone from Santa Clara, N. Mex.

‘Beardslee, Lester A., Captain U. S. Navy. <A collection of Indian imple-
ments and ornaments, specimens of shell (Chiton) used as food, anda
bird skin (Colaptes hybridus); from Alaska.

Beebe, William S. Indian stone figure-pipe. (Lent for casting.)

Belding, L. Hight packages of collections of pirds’ skins, nests, and
eggs, mammal skins, invertebrates, and Indian implements; from Cali-
fornia.

Belding Brothers, New York, N. Y. A series of manufactured spool silks
and twist, being exhibit made at Centennial Exhibition of 1876.

Bell, Hon. James. Fifteen packages of Indian implements, pottery, and
mound remains, birds’ skins and eggs, living snakes, plants, etc. ; from
Florida.

Bell, Dr. Robert, Geological Survey of Canada. A specimen of Darter
(Cottus) ; from Lake Superior, and specimens of frogs and fishes, from
York, Hudson’s Bay Territory.

Belt, Dr. A. M. Two specimens of Maryland building-stones.

Bence, John A. Photograph of fossil tooth weighing 13$ pounds;
found in Putnam County, Indiana.

Bendire, Charles, Captain, U. S. Army. Seventeen boxes of fossils and
general natural history collections (mammals, birds, fishes, reptiles,
etc.) ; from Washington Territory.

Bessels, Dr. Emil. A Lapland pipe and case, a box of European Jand
shells, skeleton of bat ( Vespertilio murinus) and seven Egyptian fiint
knives, and a skeleton of bat ( Vespertilio murinus).

betz, A. L. Two specimens of Missouri building-stones.

Bickley, Dr. B. F. (through Dr. DeHaas). A supposed syphilitic skull,
obtained from mound at Alexandersville, Ohio.

Blackford, Eugene G., New York. A large number of specimens of fishes
(Alosa, Carpiodes, Salmo, Ocyurus, Decapterus, Tautoga, ete.), lobsters,
from various parts of the United States, a specimen of Manatee from
the Amazon River, and a box of living lizards and frogs from Liver-
pool, England.

Boardman, George A. Specimen of flounder (Lophopsetta maculata) and
birds’ skins (Buteo, Tringoides); from Florida.

Boehmer, George H. Specimens of owl (Scops), moles (Scalops), and of
living snakes; from Maryland.

Boucard, A. <A collection of Mexican and Yucatan birds.

Bowers, Rev. Stephen. A box of mound relies; from Wisconsin.

Boyd, CO. H., Assistant, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey.—Scale
from supposed fossil walrus-tusk found at Addison Point, Me.
134 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Bradford, Gershon (through Capt. C. P. Patterson, Superintendent, United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey). A box and barrel of oysters and
specimens of bottom of Chesapeake Bay.

Bradley, William, Washington, D. C. Samples of marble floor-tiles.

Bradolet & Co., Astoria, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in the
packing of elaaam

Brady, Edward. Specimens of annals (Ornithorhynchus) and a bird-
skin; from New South Wales.

Bransford. John F., Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Navy. Two bricks
taken from the ‘‘ Great Wall of China.”

Briand, Capt. Augusté (through E. H. Hawley). A box of stone imple-
ments ; from France.

Briggs Dean. Two specimens of Ohio building stones.

Broadhead, Prof. G. C. Specimens of galena and sphalerite; from the
Einstein mine, Madison County, Missouri.

Broadhead, Prof. G. C. A large collection of building stones from the
States of Arkansas, Kansas, and Missouri.

Brooks, W. B., Chief Engineer, U. 8. Navy. Swords, bullet-pouch,
powder-charge, and wooden canteen, taken from the Coreans in 1871
by United States forces under Admiral John Rodgers, U. 8S. Navy.

Brooks, Dr. W.K., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. Alcoholic speci-
mens of Renilla; from Beaufort, N. ©.

Brown, D. A. Specimens of minerals. (For examination).

Brown, Dr. J.J. Five species of land shells; from the Gonave Islands.

Brudon, Jacob. A small box of shells; from Michigan.

Brussels, Belgium, Royal Museum of Natural History. Four boxes of
general natural history specimens.

Bryan, Rev. C. B. Specimens of insects, shells, ete.; from Virginia.

Bryce, T. T., Hampton, Va. Samples of cans used for pickling oysters
and crabs.

Bucklin, W. E. (through E.G. Blackford). A dried specimen of fish,
(Boleosoma Olmstedi).

Burdick, T. W. A specimen of fossil conglomerate ; from Towa.

Burehan and Morrill, Portland, Me. Samples of cans and labels used
for packing fish, ete.

Biisse, F. Specimens of fishes (Trigla, Solea, Trachurops, Tylosurus,
Scomber, etc.); from Germany.

Butler, Hon. A. P. Specimen of rock-fish (Roceus lineatus); from the
Congares River, South Carolina.

Bynum, J. G. Specimen of flexible sandstone ; from North Carolina.

Bye, E. Mortimer. Hight specimens of Maryland building-stones.

Calder, D. B. Two specimens of Ohio building-stones.

California State Mining Bureau, San Francisco,Cal. Casts of Indian stone
pestles and image; from California and Arizona.

Calvin, 8S. Box of paleozoic fossils (sixty-three species); from Iowa.

.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 135

Cambria Iron Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Photograph of Cambria Iron
Works.

Camp, W. B. Box of Indian relics; from New York. (lor casting.)

Campbell, Charles D. Natural formation of stone; from Ohio.

Carll, John F. Two specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones.

Carson, N. Rk. Specimens of infusorial earth; from California. (For ex-
amination.)

Carson, Dr. W. B. Indian stone ax; from Ohio.

Carvar, Joseph H. Specimens of salt herring; from Havre de Grace,
Md.

Case, Thomas S. (through Prof. O. T. Mason). Fragment of cement;
from an old aqueduct at Pecos, N. Mex. ;

Catell, Dr. B. Specimen of black sand; from Washington Territory.
(For examination.)

Catlin Collection. A largé buffalo skin, tent and poles, and skull of
Flathead Indian.

Caton, Judge J. D. Bones of deer (C. acapulcensis) and skull of seven-
teen-months-old deer showing no horn-cores.

Chambers, Alexander, [ieutenant-Colonel, U. S. Army. Tooth of fossil
elephant (Hlephas primigenius); from Indian Territory.

Chase, A. W. Two boxes of fragmentary pottery taken from Aztec
houses four feet below the surface, near Contention City, Ariz. *

Chase, C. H. Two casts of stone implements; from Indiana.

Chase, Walter G. Specimen of massive quartz; from Massachusetts.

Cheshire, William W. Three arrow-heads; from Indiana; and cast of
‘paint cup”; from Wisconsin.

Chester, H. C. Box of crabs (Callinectes hastatus); from St. Jerome’s
Creek, Md.

Cilley, C. W. Two specimens of Vermont building-stones.

City Drug Store, Nevada, Ohio. Specimen of mole cricket (@ryllotalpa
borealis), (For examination.)

Clapp, A. F. A living specimen of “ map tortoise” (Malacoclemmys ge-
ographicus); from Pennsylvania. -

Clark, A. Howard. Specimen of bat. Also specimen of embryo por-
poise ; from George’s Banks.

Clark, Edward, Architect U. S. Capitol. A series of dressed blocks of
stone used in the construction of the Capitol and other public build-
ings in Washington, D. C.

Clark, Ellis, jr. Specimens of fossil shells (Bulimus, Unio, ete.); from
Texas.

Clark, Frank N. Specimens of white-fish eggs and living mud-dogs,
(Menobranchus lateralis) ; from Michigan.

Clark, M. A large stone pipe taken from an Indian cemetery in De-
catur County, Tennessee.

Clark, O. Specimen of slag. (For examination.)

Clarke, Samuel F. Specimens of Amphioxus ; from Virginia.
136 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Clements, Luther M. Specimens of quartz and chalcedony; from New
Mexico.

Coale, H. K. Seven specimens, five species of birds.

Cocheco Manufacturing Company, Dover, N. H. Samples of printed
cottons.

Cocke, Thomas & Co. A specimen of soap-stone; from North Car-
olina.

Coe, Cornelius B. Rat taken from under floor of Treasury Department
while making repairs.

Coke, Hon. Richard. Specimenof bronze; from Texas. (For examina-
tion.)

Cole, P. L. 'Two specimens of Ohio building-stones.

Coleman, FE. C. Specimen of mineral; from Wisconsin. (lor examina-
tion.)

Collier, David C. Botanical specimens; from Colorado. (For examina-
tion.)

Collins, J. W. Model of mackerel-pocket used by Gloucester fisher-
men, a bottle of fishes and crustaceans from the Grand Banks, and
as encysted fish-hook taken from flesh of halibut.

Collins, W. H. Specimens of birds’ (Ardea, etc.) skins and eggs; from
Michigan.

Colton, H. H. Yorty-five specimens of building-stones; from the States
of Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and Tennessee.

Commagere, A. Y. Various relics of the Polaris expedition.

Conway, John W. (through J. Stevenson.) Five boxes of Indian orna-
ments, implements, ete.; from New Mexico.

Conover, A. D., Chicago, Illinois. A large collection of building-stones
from the States of Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin. |

Cook, Prof. George H. A large collection of building-stones and slates;
from the States of New York and New Jersey.

Copenhagen, Denmark, Royal Museum of Northern Antiquities. Twoboxes
of antiquities from Denmark.

Corning, Erastus, and H. A. Jewett. Mounted skeleton of ‘‘Old Henry
Clay,” the progenitor of the Clay stock of racing horses.

Corson, Rk. KR. Fourteen boxes of specimens (stalactites, ete.); from
Luray Cave, Va.

Cory, C. B. Five specimens of birds; from Massachusetts.

Cotell, Dr. B. Specimen of magnetic sand; from Washington Territory.

Coues, Llliott, Surgeon, U. S. Army. A small box of bones of small mam-
mals and fragments of pottery; from Cliff House on Beaver Creek,
Arizona.

Cowdrey & Co., Boston, Mass. Samples of cans and labels used in the
packing of fish, ete.

Corley, S. W. Ninespecimens of arrow and spear heads; from Connec-
ticut and Ohio.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 137

Cox, Two large specimens of East Indian shells, said to be from
Chincha Islands.

Craig, W. H. Specimens of silver ore; from Silver Cliff, Colo. (I*or
examination.)

Crandall, W. R. Stem of fossil, crinoid; from Collinsville, Il.

Crawford, A. W. Specimen of insects ; from California.

Crawford, C. Specimen of granite; from Dakota Territory.

Crittenden, A. Rk. Three trawl-rollers used by the Gloucester fishermen.

Croppie, Henry. Two living turtles (Chelopus insculptus); from New
York.

Cushing, Frank H. A Zuni “sacred blanket; ” from Fort Wingate,
iN; Mex.

Cutting Packing Company, San Francisco, Cal. Samples of cans and
labels used in packing fish, ete.

Dale, F. C., Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. 8S. Navy. Two boxes of birds’
skins and one box of alcoholic collections ; from Japan.

Dall, W. H., Assistant United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Tusk of
mammoth; from ice cliffs in Kotzebue Sound, 150 miles eastward
from Bering Straits.

Dalrymple, Dr. H. A. Specimens of Tuckahoe.

Daniel & Boyd, St. Johns, N. B. Specimen of New Brunswick build-
ing-stone.

Davenport, George G. Two small living alligators (A. mississippiensis) ;
from Florida.

Davis, Henry. Specimens of wasp and hornets’ nests and four arrow-

* points; from Iowa. _

Davis, Hon. H. G. A large number of specimens of minerals; from
West Virginia. (For examination.)

Davis, Jabez. A large specimen of quahog clam; from Massachusetts.

Dawkins, W. Boyd. Remains of bear and man taken from the hyena
dens of Creswell crags and sink in the limestone at Windy Knoll,
Derbyshire, England.

Dempsey, Thomas. Specimens of shad; from St. John’s River, Florida.

DInvellier, E. V. Eighteen specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones.

Denham, W. H. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Missouri.

Dennett, John, Lieutenant Revenue Marine Service. Insect from wood
taken on board vessel at Mobile, Ala.

Derby, Orville A. (See Rio Janeiro, Brazil.)

De Vinne, Theodore L., New York. Duplicate set of cards illustrative of
the process of overlaying in wood-cut printing.

Devlin & Co., Astoria, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in pack-
ing “‘ Columbia River fresh salmon.”

Dexter, Newton. Specimen of very small lobster; from Newport, R. I.

Dibble, Henry, Chicago, Ill. Samples of encaustic floor tiling.

Dilk, Fred. M. Bird skin; from Colorado.

Dobbyn, John F. A living albino rat; from Washington, D.C.
338 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Dodge, R. I., Colonel, U. S. A. Bead work cradles, bow, quiver and
arrow, glass water-jar, double-headed tom-tom used by the Ute and
south Cheyenne Indians.

Dodge, W. W., & Co., San Francisco, Cal. A kit of Alaskan codfish and
half barrel of salmon bellies.

Doron, Thomas S. Specimens of owls; from Alabama.

Dorsey, Rev. J. O. (through Dr. W. J. Hoffman). Trappings of saddle
belonging to “ Big Bear,” a chief of the Ponca Indians.

Douglass, A. HE. Eight ceremonial weapons found in a mound in Volu-
sia County, Florida, and three flat flint drills. (Lent for casting.)
Dover, Thomas. Specimen of cloth taken from amound in Butler County,

Ohio, and a stone pipe from Miami County, Ohio. (Lent for casting.)

Dow, John M., Captain Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Specimens of
living plants, and a collection of fossils, stone cilts, and 3 strings of
green stone beads, ete. ; from Central America.

Dowell, John H. Specimen of eel and flat-fish; from the Potomac
River.

Downey, Hon. S. W. Samples of sulphate of soda and water; from
Wyoming. (Sent for examination.)

Downman, Rk. H. Alcoholic specimen of deformed chick-turkey, from
Warrenton, Va.

Dufief, Lewis B. A small living alligator ; from Florida.

Dugés, Dr. Don Alfredo. Various contributions of shells (Unio, Arion,
Mytilus, etc.); mammals (Dasypus, Geomys, Cariacus); fishes (Clinos-
toma, Hudsonius, Carangus, etc.) ; reptiles (Crocodilus), etc.; from vari-
ous parts of Mexico.

Dumont, W. B. Two specimens of New York building stones.

Dunbar’s Sons, G. W., New Orleans, La. Samples of cans and labels used
for packing fish, ete.; also alcoholic specimens of shrimps, crabs, and
crawfish; from the Mississippi River.

Eagle Preserved Fish Company, Portland, Me. Samples of cans and
labels used in packing fish, ete.

Eagle and Phenix Manufacturing Company, Columbus, Ga. Samples of
manufactured cotton.

Eagleson and De Veau, New York, N. Y. Samples of Vermont marble
tiling.

Eastport Packing Company, Eastport, Me. Samples of cans and labels
used in the packing of fish, ete. 4

Ebaugh, Daniel. Specimens of quartzite and chlorite schist; from Mary-
land. (lor examination.)

Eddy, Irving L. Picture-frame made from lava; from Tamarack Lake.

Edwards, Frank A., Lieutenant U. S. A. Buckskin ‘ official” coat of
the Columbia River (Washington Territory) Indians.

Edwards, Thomas W. Two specimens of Virginia building stones.

Edwards, Vinal N. Eight boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes and
marine invertebrates taken in Vineyard Sound and vicinity.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 139

Bisen, Gustave. Box of fossils and alcoholic specimens of natural his-
tory; from California. ¥

Emerson, J. H. Six pens made from quills of Hyalinecia artifer taken
off Martha’s Vineyard, Mass.

Evans, Gideon I. Fragments of stone relics; from Iowa.

Everman, B. W. Four mortars and five pestles of stone; from Santa
Saula, Cal.

Fagan, Daniel. Specimen of stalagmite marble; from Virginia.

Fannee, Conrad. Fresh specimen of black bass (Micropterus salmoides) ;
from Four Mile Run, Va.

Febiger, G. L., U. 8S. A. Two ecatlinite pipes from Dakota, and a pipe
from mound near Springfield, Ohio.

Ferguson, T. B. Specimen of shark (Lamma cornubica) ; from off New-
port, R. I., and a green turtle from Chesapeake Bay.

Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York. Core of artesian well.
Figyelmesy, Philip, United States Consul at Demerara. A box of Indian
relics and two specimens of iguana (J. tuberculata); from Demerara.
Fillette, St. Julien. A collection of Indian relics from North and South
Carolinas, and minerals from Utah, California, and New York.

Finch, C. Two specimens of building stones ; from Ohio.

Fisher, A. F. Human skull occupied by birds’ nest; from New York.

‘Fisher, A. L. & Co., New York. Sample specimen of museum jars.

Fisher, W. J. Can of alcoholic specimens of natural history ; from
Alaska.

Fletcher, J. A. A “Fletcher” whale rocket gun and bomb. (Pur-
chased. )

Forbes, Dr. S. A. (through S. T. Walker). Indian stone images ; from
mounds in Florida.

“ Forestand Stream” Publishing Company, New York. A series of photo-
engravings of noted sporting dogs.

Forney, A.J., jr. Young red fox ( Vulpes fulvus); from Charles County,
Maryland. .

Foster, J. B. Stone pipe made from soapstone found at Chula, Va.

Foster, William. <A large collection of building stones; from the States
of California, Colorado, Nevada, Utah, and Wyoming.

Fraser, Charles A. Tank of alcoholic specimens collected by the late
Professor Gabb, in the West Indies.

Frierson, J. W. S. Six specimens of Tennessee building stones.

Fritsch, E., New York. Samples of marble and slate tiles.

Fuller, Andrew. Specimens of rocks (Calcite, Lemonite, ect). (For ex-
amination. )

Galvar Bros., New York. Samples of ferruginous clay. .

Gannon & Flannery, Washington, D. C. Samples of floor-tiling.

Garetson, O. L. Vial of water which fell during storm at Salem, Iowa,
supposed to contain living animals.

Garnier, Dr. John H. Specimen of Amblystoma ; from Ontario.
140 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Gatschet, Albert S. Box of Indian stone implements ;. from South Caro-
lina. :

Gattinger, A. Forty-eight specimens of Tennessee slates and building
stones.

Gecke, August. Large stone maul and fragments of crania; from In-
dian grave in Dakota. .

Gesner, William. Box of fresh-water shells; from the Catawba River,
Alabama.

Gibvoney, William. Box of stalactites ; from cave in Wythe County, Vir-
ginia.

Gibbs, George J. Eggs of lizard, box of bird’s eggs, and deposit from
salt pond; from Turk’s Island, British West Indies.
Gilbert, Charles H. Eleven boxes of fishes, fish products, ete; from
California and Mazatlan.
Glasgow, Mo., Museum of Pritchett Institute. Three casts of Indian
relics; from Missouri.

Glazawell, Dr. Giles L. Specimens of minerals and rocks; from South
Carolina.

Gooding, Dr. W. W. Specimen of snowy owl; from the Arctic Ocean;
and a specimen of eagle (Aquila canadensis).

Goode, F. C. Specimens of katydid’s eggs; from Florida.

Goodman, Mrs. LE. T. Mineral dust; from Virginia. (For examination.)

Goodrich, H. Mineral substance which fell during thunder shower at -

McLeansboro, Ul., on April 11, 1881.

Goodwin, W. H. Specimens of kaolinite; from Nelson County, Vir-
ginia.

Gordon, Thomas H., (through A. K. Worthen.) Specimen of iron pyrites;
from Virginia.

Gorringe, H. H., Lieutenant Commander U. 8. Navy. Three specimens
of building stones (granite, limestone, and syenite), taken from the
Egyptian obelisk.

Gregg, A. Six specimens of Texas building stones.

Grant, Charles C. Small box of fossil plants.

Greene, G. C. Box of Indian implements ; from Oregon.

Grifin, Ff. N. Two arrow-heads ; from Sussex County, Virginia.

Grigsby, C. 8S. Spear and arrow-heads, leaf-shaped implements, celts,
etc.; from Tennessee.

Grosvenor, Dale Company, Providence, R. I. A collection of samples manu-
factured cotton goods.

Guesde, L. A collection of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, (Liophis
Dromicus, Anolis, Platydactylus, Iguana, ete.), and four birds’ skins
(Ceryle, Gallinula, Fielica); from Guadeloupe, West Indies.

Habersham, W. Hugh. Scales of fish (Promicrops guasa); from Bruns-
wick, Ga.

Haldeman, Mrs. S. S.. Two boxes of Indian relics, duplicates from the
collection of the late Prof. Haldeman.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSETM. 141

Hall, 2. 8. Specimen of black bass, weighing five pounds, taken at the
Great Falls, Potomac River.

Hall, William E. Three specimens of Montana building stones.

Hamlin, William. Two specimens of the diver (Colymbus torquatus).

Hamlin, Dr. A. O. Specimens of tin ore, etc.; from Maine.

Hanks, Henry G. Two casts of stone implements; from California.
Hare, Dr. D. H. Beech knot, 18 inches in diameter; from Highland
County, Ohio. .

Harris, D. M. Two stone relics; from Louisiana.

Harrison, Dr. George B. Specimen of chicken-hawk (Accipiter Cooperi.)

Haskins, C. H. Two specimens of fish (Hyodon) ; from Wisconsin.

Hatch, General, U. S. Army. Three specimens of ore (Galena and
Chrysocolla and Chalcocite) ; from New Mexico. (For examination.)

Havre Museum, Havre,-France. A paleolithic flint hatchet; from
France.

Hawes, Dr. George W. Specimen of granite (core of diamond drill) ;:
from New York; a specimen of soapstone from North Carolina, and
five specimens of marble (Verte Campon, Leptanto, Lisbon, Mosaic,
Egyptian).

Hawley, E. H. <A living grass snake (Cyclophis vernalis) ; from Arling-
ton, Va.

Hawley, G. A. Bronze ornament; from Gautemala.

Hay, Dr. O. P. Can of alcoholic specimens of fishes; from the Missis-
sippi River.

Hayden, Walton. Jar of alcoholic: specimens of fishes (Uranidea, Stizo-
stedium, Percopsis, Acipenser), mole (Condylura), and mussel (Unio);
from Hudson’s Bay Territory.

Hayes, W. I. Wiving salamander (Amblystoma) and specimens of in-
sects; from North Carolina.

Hegman, S. Box of minerals; from Tennessee. (For examination.)

Hemphill, Henry. A fine collection of Pacific coast mollusca.

Hemphill, J.C. Branch of oak, showing deposit of locusts’ eggs.

Henderson, Hon. J. G. Twelve boxes of Indian relies taken from mounds
near Naples, Illinois.

Hendricks, G. Dix. Box of Indian relies; from Preble County, Ohio.

Henkle, Ambrose L. Indian stone pipe and copper beads; from Fairfax
County, Virginia.

Henkle, Dr. S. P. C. Cylindrical stone tube; from mound in Rocking-
ham County, Virginia; also pipe of chlorite, from Shenandoah County,
Virginia.

_ Henshaw, H.W. Specimen of albino squirrel. (Purchased in Washing-

ton market.)

Hereford, Dr. T. P. Arrow-point; from Missouri.

Hering, Dr. O. J. Nine packages of specimens of mammals, birds,
Shells, and insects, also fan used for blowing fire, and press for press-

ing the cassava roots for making into bread; from Surinam, South
America.
142 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Hessel, Rudolph. Specimen of pied-bill grebe (Podilymbus podiceps) and
of young California salmon. ;

Hetton, Bryant A. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia.

Hicks, George H. Stone celt; from Michigan.

Hill, James G., Supervising Architect United States Treasury Depart-
ment. Specimens of building-stones; from New Brunswick, Canada,
and the States of Maine, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, Rhode
Island, and Texas.

Hinckley, Isaac. Four specimens of swans (Olor columbianus); from

North Carolina.

Hitchcock, C. H. A large collection of building-stones and slates; from
the States of Massachusetts, New York, New Hampshire, and Ver-
mont.

Hodges, H. C., Lieutenant-Colonel, U. S. Army. Walking-stick made of

wood from Washington Territory and with handle of deer horn.
‘Holmes, W. H. Three pieces of jasper from Yellowstone National
Rae and arrow-heads, stone axes, ete., from the District of Colum-
ia.

Holub, Dr. Emil. Box of minerals and fossils; from Africa.

Hooper, C. L., Captain U. S. Revenue Marine Steamer “ Corwin.” Box of
Indian implements, skull of polar bear, human crania, etc.; from the
Alaska Islands.

Hopkins, L. H. Three oyster knives.

Horan, Henry. Living ring-necked snake (Diadophis punctatus); from
the District of Columbia.

Houghton, J. H. Samples of minerals; from Georgia. (For examina-
tion.)

Howard, J. W. Alcoholic specimen of alligator (A. mississppiensis).

Howell, J. C., Rear-Admiral, U. 8S. Navy. A carved marble tombstone ;
from plains of ancient Troy.

Hufschmidt, R. Two specimens of building-stones ; from Iowa.

Hughlett, Thomas. Specimen of mud minnow (Umbra pygmea); from
Easton, Md.

Huddleston, D. G. Specimens of minerals ; from West Virginia.

Huddleston, George. Samples of manufactured soap-stone and jar of
powder; from Bethesda, Md.

Hume, George W., Astoria, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in
packing fish.

Hume, Thomas I. Two specimens of mole (Condylura cristata) and an
embryo calf (?) (hairy placenta 2).

Hunt, Dr. J. G. Microscopic slide of cloth.

Huntington, D. L., U. 8. Army. Two specimens of spiders; from Da-
kota Territory.

Huntington, J. H. A collection of building stones and slates ; from the
States of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia.

Huysman, Theodore. Ax of Lydian stone; from United States of Oo-
lombia.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 143

Illinois State Library of Natural History, Normal, Itl. Eighty-six spe-
cies of Illinois fishes (in alcohol).

Illinois State Historical Library (through A. K. Worthen). Specimens of
coal measure fosils ; from Illinois.

Ingersoll, Ernest. Eight boxes of shells, Spanish and Indian pottery ;
from Florida; and samples of oyster-knives and hammer.

Ipswich Mills, Ipswich, Mass. Samples of hosiery.

Irgans, Jorgen. Box of Norwegian fishing tackle.

Jackson, EH. EH. Bottle of larve of insect ; from South Carolina.

Jackson, W. W. Small box of quartz crystals, from Herkimer County,
New York.

Jaffords, L. G@. Specimens of land and fresh-water shells; from Min-
nesota.

Japan, Government of (through Japanese Legation, Washington). A
series of samples of cotton, from the raw product to ‘the manufact-
ured goods. .

Javens, G. Specimen of malformed catfish ; (Amiurus albidus); from
the Potomac River.

Jeffords, EH. A. Two boxes of alligator and turtle eggs, birds eggs,
etc.; from Florida.

- Jernigan, Silas. Indian stone celt; from Florida.

Jesuits’ College, New Orleans, La. Box of rocks, minerals, and fossils;
from Louisiana.

Jewett, James C. Specimen of phosphate of iron and black sand.

Johnson, Dr. H. N. Small box of ‘ Lucky stones” and petrified grain;
from Wisconsin.

Johnston, F. B. Catlenite carving of human skull; from Campbell

-» County, Kentucky.

Johnston, George. Specimens of potato bugs with parasites; from Elk-

ton, Md.
Johnston & Young. Specimens of lobster shells, crabs, starfish, ete.

Jones, Elliott. Stone chippings aud fragmentary pottery ; from Ari-
zona.

Jones, R. L. & Co., Delta. Pa. Twelve specimens of Maryland slate.

Jones, Winslow. Cans.

Jordan, Prof. D. S. A large collection of fishes from Utah and Cali-
fornia, many of them new to science; also two tooth-picks, one ear-
spoon and brush made by the California Chinese from seal bristles
and silver.

Jouy, P. L. Specimens of mole and squirrel, from Virginia; and liv-
ing specimens of Amblystoma, frogs, etc., from Oakland, Cal.

Julien, Dr. A. A. Specimen of building-stone ; from France.

Kane, Dennis. Specimen of hematite; from New York.

Kane, John J., Assistant Surgeon, U. 8S. Army. Specimens of galena;
from New Mexico.
144 RNPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keep, Captain (through Hon. James Bell). Stone mortar and pestle; from
a mound near Orange Lake, Florida.

Kelly, Miss Anna W. (through Frank L. Donnelly). Specimen of Italian
greyhound (in flesh).

Kelly, F. C. Specimens of insects (Diplax rubicunda); from Dakota
Territory.

Kelly, I. I. Three specimens of building-stones; from Iowa.

Kelly, Thomas. A collection of building-stones ; from Ohio, Pennsyl.
vania, and West Virginia.

Kelly, W. W. Two specimens of building-stones; from Vermont.

Kendall, J. R. Specimen of barnacle goose; from Jamaica Bay, Long
Island.

Keyley, W. S. Specimen of iron pyrites ; from Missouri.

Kinney, Hon. O. P. (through John B. Wiggins). Indian stone pipe; from
New York.

Kite, J. Allan, steamer “ Fish Hawk.” Tank of alcoholic marine speci-
mens and a living specimen of loon (Colymbus glacialis), also two
eagles; from Avoca, N. C.; also a tank and 11 bottles of alcoholic
specimens of fishes, taken by the steamer “ Fish Hawk.”

Knickerbocker Ice Company, Philadelphia, Pa. A wagon and models of
all apparatus used in handling ice.

Knickerbocker Millis. Bulbous plant, and teeth of shark, and phosphate

rock; from Florida.

Knowles, G. A. Two specimens of building-stones; from Iowa.

Korte, Hon. Henry L. Specimen of fish; from Ohio.

Krebs, F. Eugene, Regensburg, Germany. Framed exhibit showing the
various processes in the manufacture of kid gloves, from the natural
skin to the complete glove.

Kresken, H. Acosta. Alcoholic specimen of bird; from Ohio.

Laidlow, James, & Co., Portland, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels
used in the packing of salmon.

Lambert, N. Four specimens of building-stones; from Washington
Territory and Oregon.

Lamborn, Robert H. Three Indian relics; from near the sacred city of
Testihuacan, Mexico.

Lancaster Mills, Clinten, Mass. Samples of manufactured cotton goods.

Laney, Henry. Alcoholic specimen of jumping mouse (Zapus hud-
sonius); from Maryland.

Langhorne, Maurice. Specimens of bat guano and of bark; from San
Domingo, West Indies.

Langston, Prof. J. M., United States Consul-General at Hayti. Two boxes
of fine corals, shells, ete.; from Hayti.

Lanmian, Charles, Japanese Legation. Specimen of Japanese cuttle-fish.

Larco, Andrea, (through Prof. D. S.Jordan). Tank of alcoholic speci-
mens of fishes of California.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 145

Latham, M. R. Specimens of minerals; from Virginia.

Latkin, Joseph. Three boxes of Tadian relics, fossils, minerals, ete.;
from Georgia.

Lawrence & Co., Boston, Mass. Samples of printed cotton shirting;
from Cocheco Mills.

Teach, J. P. Specimen of duck; from Illinois.

Deakin, George A. Six specimens of Maryland building- stones.

Le Baron, J. Francis. One barrel two boxes of fossils, shells, ete.;
from Florida.

_ Lee, Joseph. Two specimens of Texas building-stones.

Leeper, W. H. Four specimens of Oregon building-stones.

Legare, J. Berwick. Living dog, pointer.

Legare, W. W. Specimen of locust; from South Carolina.

Lehman, A. E. 'Two specimens of Peele building-stones.

Leppelman, L. Two pierced stone tablets, clay pipe, and flint; from
Ohio.

Leshe, C. C. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from Charleston,
8. C., markets.

Leslie, James C. Living garter snake (Hutenia sirtalis); from Penn-

sylvania.

Lewis, Prof. H. C. Specimen of mineral (Philadelphiaite).

Lewis, Mrs. P. M. Two boxes of fossils, birds’ skins, and plants; from
Missouri.

Lindsley, H. W. Eighty specimens of building-stones ; from Connecti-
eut and New York.

Livingston, Dr. I. A. Specimens of shale and bituminous schists;
from Arkansas.

Long, Dr. O. M. Walrus tusk and skull, from the Arctic Ocean; and
jaw of shark, bill of sawfish, and can of alcoholic specimens of
marine life; from Panama Bay.

Lord, H. & G. W., Boston, Mass. Sample of cod gill-net.

Lord, W. Blair. .Six large specimens of native garnets and Indian
iron spear-head and halibut hook; from Alaska.

Love, W. L. Specimen of insect; from North Carolina.

Incas, J. D. Skull, Indian shell carvings, ete.;, from mound in Fair-
fax County, Virginia.

Luther, S. M. Specimens of minerals and fragments of Indian pottery;
from Ohio.

Lyon, John. Skin of deer (Cervus virginianus); from West Virginia.

McAdams, William, jr. Five casts of Indian pipe, one copper imple-
ment, and specimens of shells and minerals; from mounds in Illinois.

McBride,-R. W. Box of Indian relics; from Indiana. (Lent for cast-
ing.)

McBurney, George, and Son. Living alligator. (A. Mississippiensis.)

McCurdy, Alexander. Five fishing knives, and galvanized iron swivel,
used on trawl buoys by Gloucester fishermen.

S. Mis. 109———10
‘
146 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

McDaniel, Joseph. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.

McDonald, Marshall. Six boxes of specimens of fishes, reptiles, marine
invertebrates, insects, ete.; from the Potomac River and Chesapeake
Bay; also an Indian stone ax; from Virginia.

McElwain, Robert. One box of fossils and one box of fresh-water shells;
from Pennsylvania.

McHwin, J. B. Limbs of oak tree, with deposit of locusts’ eggs; from
Tennessee.

Macey & Co., Nashville, Tenn. Eureka minnow trap.

McFarlane, R. Skins of Arctic hare, marmot, mink, beaver, etc.; from
Fort Athabasca, Hudson’s Bay Territory.

Macfeely, &., Commissary-General of Subsistence, U. S. Army. Speci-
mens of insects taken from bacon, at Whipple Barracks, Arizona.
Maine Red Granite Company, Calais, Me. Two specimens of Maine build-

ing-stones.

McGee, W. J. A large collection of lowa building-stones.

MeGrahan, John T. A button of metallic iron and piece of slag.

Mackey, George W. Two specimens of Pennsylvania slate.

Mackney, C. FE. A specimen of decomposed mica schist and one of
hornblende; from New York. (For examination.)

MeLean, John J. Three boxes of Indian implements, ornaments, carv-
ings, etc.; from Alaska.

McMenamin & Co., Hampton, Va. Samples of cans and labels used in
packing fish, oysters, ete.

McNeil, James. Box of Indian relics ; from Tennessee.

Madsen, Peter (through Prof. D. S. Jordan). Two cans of alcoholic
specimens of fishes (Catostomus fecundus) ; from Utah.

Maine Red Granite Company, Calais, Me. Specimens of granite; from |

Red Beach, Me.

Mallett, Dr. J. W. Two boxes of minerals (Microlite, graphite, barcen-
ite, etc.) ; from Virginia, Nevada, Mexico, and India.

Maltby, C. S., Baltimore, Md. Five samples of cans.used in the pack-
ing of oysters.

Manderson, A. Nine specimens of Pennsylvania building-stones.

Manderson, A. Specimen of sandstone; from New Jersey.

Mandeville, W. Specimens of quartz; from Pennsylvania.

Mangum, C. W. Indian stone relic; from Fannin County, Georgia.

Mann, C. HE. Two birds’ skins (Perissoglossa tigrina and Dendreca black-
burnic); from Illinois.

Mansfield, I. HE. Hight barrels of fossil coal plants; from Beaver County,
Pennsylvania.

Marnock, G. W. Specimens of reptiles (Humeces, Eutaenia, and Lytho-
dytes); from Texas.

Marsh, Prof. O. C. Cast of bones of fossil bird (Hesperornis regalis,
Marsh).

Marsh, Philip. Box of arrow and spear heads and a box of birds’ eggs;

from Illinois.
¥

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 147

Marshall, Edward. Specimen of mineral dust; from North Carolina.
(For examination.)

Marsilliot, M. G., United States Revenue Steamer Corwin. Specimen of
ores; from Alaska.

Martin, H. L. Specimen of bug; from Illinois.

Martin, S.J. Two boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes, crabs, ete.,
obtained by fishing vessels sailing from Gloucester, Mass.

Mason, Prof. Otis T. Specimen of quartz geode; from near Keokuk, Iowa.

Massachusetts Cotton Mill, Lowell, Mass. Samples of cotton cloth.

Mather, Fred. Alcoholic specimen of fish; from the Saint Lawrence
River; also, living box-tortoise, marked “Yankee, 1862”; from
Virginia.

Mathews, W., Assistant Surgeon, U. 8. Army. Box of mineral substance .
used by Navajo Indians for bleaching silver and as a mordant in
dyeing.

Mathews, Wiliam H. C. Samples of saline soda; from Mono Lake, Cal-
ifornia.

Mationi, C. Six glass tubes for watering plants.

Mayo, I. C., Gloucester, Mass. Five samples of “Champion” row-locks.

Medler, Lyman G. (through John B. Wiggins). Fragments of fossil tusk
of mastodon; from Tioga County, New York.

Meigs, General M. C. Specimens of Minnesota granite used by the
Union Pacific Railroad in the construction of the railroad bridge at
Bismarck, Dakota. Samples of building-stones; from the quarries on
the military reservation at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; specimen of
pine wood, showing strength of the timber when rested at ends and
weight placed in the center; also, specimen of Indian oolite; from
the Ute Indian reseryation. .

Merchant, Capt. George W. “Purse” ring, suchas were used on seines
in 1854.

Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. 8. A. Eggs of snow bunting (Junco annectens);
from Montana.

_ Meyers, P. H. Specimens of mica schist and pyrite; from Maryland.

_ Michigan Wire Shovel Co., Niles, Mich. Wire scoop, for removing fish

from nets.

_ Miles Brothers & Oo., New York. Series of manufactured bristles, etc.,

| exhibited at International Exhibition of 1876, Philadelphia.

Miller, L. M. Two fresh specimens of fish (Amia calva); from Geneva,

_ New York.

Miller, M. A. Box of minerals and Indian arrow-heads; from Vir-
ginia.

Miller & Coates, New York. Samples of floor tiling.

Miller, Joseph. Specimens of minerals; from Arizona,

Mills, A. Two specimens of building-stones from Scotland and ane
from Germany.

148 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Miltimore, Capt. A. E., U. S. A. Specimen of petrified mesquite wood
and fossil tooth; from Texas.

Missouri Fish Commission, Saint Louis, Mo. Specimens of skip-jack
(Clupea chrysochloris) ; from Lexington, Mo.

Moore, Thomas (through C. F. Sawyer). Shark’s jaw ; from Loggerhead
Key, Florida.

Moore, Dr. (through Hon. 8. B. Maxey). Samples of water; from Eureka
Springs, Arkansas.

Moran, George H., Surgeon, U. S. A. Four boxes of Indian stone imple-
ments, etc. (arrow-heads, shell ornaments, olias with burial remains,
etc.); from Fort Thomas, Ariz., and North Carolina.

Morgan, B. Box of Indian relics; from Iowa. (Lent for casting.)

Morgan, Edward. Indian stone ax; from “Soapstone Hill”, District
Columbia.

Morgan, Jaques J. M. de. Collection of about a thousand specimens
of European Tertiary and Cretaceous fossils.

Morgan, Joseph (through Senator W. BL. Allison). Specimen of mineral;
from Iowa. (lor examination.)

Morgan, Leonard. Specimen of fossil; from Washington, D.C.

Morgan, Thomas. Two small boxes of shells; from New Jersey.

Morris, L. S.,& Son, Warsaw, N. Y. Twospecimens of building stones;
from New York.

Morton, Rush K. Specimen of tree-toad (iyla versicolor) ; from Ches-
ter County, Pennsylvania.

Mott, F. J. Specimen of siderite; from Colorado.

Munroe, Prof. Charles E., U. S. Naval Academy. Seventeen specimens
of Maryland building-stones.

Muth & Eckardt. Two living fishes (Alacropodus sp.); from Ohio.

Myers, P. H. Specimens of minerals; from Maryland. (or examina-
tion.)

Myers, John. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.

Needham, George F. Three hawks and one owl; from Maryland and
District of Columbia. . 3

Nehrling, H. Three specimens of birds’ nests (Milvulus, Chondestes,
Cyanospiza); from Texas.

Nelson, E. W., U.S. Signal Service. Thirty-six boxes and three barrels
of specimens of general natural history, two lidaokas, two sleighs,
and models of canoes and paddles; from Alaska.

Nelson, Dr. Wilfred, British Consul, Panama. Alcoholic specimen of

snake; from forest in Ecuador.

New Britain Knitting Company, New Britain, Conn. Samples of knitted
goods, underwear, ete. :
New Orleans, La., Jesuit’s College. Box of rocks, minerals, and fossils ;

from Louisiana.

Newsome, David. Samples of caleareous tufa; from Pierce County, |

Washington Territory.

—

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 149

New York, N. Y., American Museum of Natural History. Seventeen boxes
of the duplicate fossils of the James Hall collection. (First series.)
Vichols, Dr. H. A. A. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes and a small

box of birds’ skins, from Dominica; also one fish-pot, from Antigua.

Nichols, Henry E., Lieutenant-Commander, U. 8. Coast and Geodetic Sur-
vey steamer Hassler. A collection in alcohol of specimens of fishes,
from Alaska; and a bottle of sea soundings, from Menzie’s Bay, Dis-
covery Passage, British Columbia.

Nixon, J. S. Worm cell with worm ; from Pennsylvania.

Noon, Luke. Two specimens of New York building-stones.

Norris, P. W., Superintendent of Yellowstone National Park. Crate of
mammal skins (Ursus, Cariacus, Cervus, and Ovis) and forty-seven
boxes of minerals, rocks, natural formations, etc.; from the Yellow-
stone National Park.

Norton, Ei. H. (through Senator F. M. Cockrell). Bottle of water; from
Missouri. (For examination).

O’ Beirne, Col. James R. Specimen of fish (Trichiurus lepturus); from
Long Island.

Ober, F. A. Two copper axes; from Mexico, and two boxes of general
natural history collections, from Kit’s Island, ete., New Mexico.

Oliver, John. Three specimens of Missouri building stones.

Oliver, John A, Living snake (Tropidonotus); from the Potomac River,
Washington, D. C.

Oram, F. F. Sample of Titaniferous sand from the gold region of Ran-
dolph County, Alabama.

Orcutt, Frank P. Nest of Canada jay (Perisoreus canadensis); from
Maine.

Oregon State Commission, Permanent Exhibition Building, Philadelphia,
Pa. Exhibit made at Philadelphia, consisting of mounted specimens
of birds and mammals, and agricultural products.

Orton, Edward. <A large collection of building-stones; from Indiana,
Kentucky, and Ohio.

Orvis, Charles F., Manchester, Vt. Six artificial flies for fishing.

Owens, Charles S. A collection of old books, coins, badges, ete., also
specimens of arrow-heads.

Owsley, Dr. J. B. Indian stone pick and cone; from Ohio. (Lent for
casting.)

Packard, kh. L. Box of fossiliferous rocks; from the Indian Territory.

Page, Peter. Specimen of red-throated diver (Colymbus septentrionalis);
from West Virginia.

Page, W. F. Living water-snake (Zropidonotus sipedon); from Gun-
ston’s, Va.

Palmer, Dr. FE. Two boxes of mound relics; from Arkansas; and two
boxes of general ethnologica ; from Tennessee.

Palmer, Miss Z. Two specimens of building-stones; from Ohio.

Palner, William. Specimen of snakes (Tropidonotus); from Virginia.
150 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM,

Paris, France. Museum of Natural History. Box of alcoholic speci-
mens of natural history.

Patrick, Jason. Two specimens of building-stones; from Tennessee.

Philadelphia, Pa., Academy of Natwral Sciences. Plaster casts of ants’
nests. (Purchased).

Phillips, Barnet. Box of samples of the ‘ Ogeeche lime.”

Peelor, David. Fossil coal-print; from Pennsylvania.

Pierson, A. R. Specimen of bird ; from New Jersey.

Pilling, George P., Philadelphia, Pa. Four silver-plated “ Patent Cow-
Milkers.”

Pinkham, Joseph. Two specimens of minerals; from Virginia.

Platt & Co., Baltimore, Md. Two samples of cans used in packing oys-
ters.

Pocasset Manufacturing Company, Fall River, Mass. Samples of manu-
factured cottons.

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Wiving boa-constrictor and box of insects; from
Cuba.

Polleys, Hon. W. H., United States Consul, Barbados, West Indies. Spe- |

cimens of shell celts and infusorial earths ; from Barbados.

Pollock, John 8. Indian arrow-head; from Hamilton County, Ohio.

Porter, William H. Specimen of butterfly.

Portland Packing Company, Portland, Me. Samples of eans used in pack-
ing fish, ete. "

Powell, Hon. Samuel. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes, ete. ; from
Newport, R. I.

Powell, S. W. Specimens of worms infesting meadows at Madison,

PENS

Power, A. H. <A large, fresh specimen of salmon; from the Merrimac
River, N. H.

Powers & Weightman, manufacturing chemists, Philadelphia, Pa. Seven
boxes of chemical products and manufactures.

Prentiss, J. C. Specimen of “bog ore”; from near Ravenna, Ohio.

Price, James. Two specimens of building-stones from Tennessee.

Prince, David. Specimen of mineral; from New Jersey.

Prince, 8. F., & Co., South Dorset, Vt. Two specimens of Vermont build- |

ing-stones.
Printz, Lorenzo. Copper plates and disks; found in Fairfax County,
Virginia.
Pullen, Clarence. Sixteen specimens of Kansas building-stones.
Pybas, B. Fossil; from Alabama.

Quick, Hdgar R. Specimens of young moles (Blarina brevicauda); from |

Indiana.

Quinn, James, Portland, Oreg. Three samples of cans used in the pack-
ing of Columbia River salmon.

Ramsey, N. A. Specimens of plants; from North Carolina. (lor identi-
fication).

+)

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 151

Ranchfuss, C. H., Jr. Small box of pentramites; from Illinois.

Rares, R. W. (through Mr. Eckhardt). Eggs of carp (dead) and speci-
mens of male eels; from Germany. :

Rau, Dr. Charles. An Indian nut-stone and an animal-shaped clay
figure (modern); made by the Tesuque Indians, of New Mexico.

Rea, G.N. Tin-type pictures of ball (weighing ten pounds) taken from
stomach of cow; from Indiana.

Rees, Richard. Nineteen specimens of slate; from Maryland.

Reid, George W. Specimens of soapstone vessels, grooved axes, ete. ;
from Virginia; and a carved human face in chloride; from Pennsyl-
vania.

Ridgway, Audubon W. Two specimens of bats; from Washington,
D.C.

Ridgway, Robert. A large collection of skins of American birds (nearly

_ 800 species and 2,500 specimens) and six boxes of specimens of snakes,
turtles, and other reptiles, and a box of Indian relics (arrow-heads,
pesiles, mortars, etc.); from Indiana.

Riggs, Thomas D. Specimens of rocks; from Montgomery County, Md.
(For examination.)

Riley, T. H., U. 8. A. A small collection of plants; from Idaho.

Rio Janeiro, Brazil, Museo Nacionale (through Prof. Orville A. Derby).
Two boxes of fossils; from Brazil.

Roberts, W. F. A living specimen of Phrynosoma; from New Mexico.

Robinson, C., Jr. Two specimens of snakes (Diadophis punctatus); from
Washington, D. C.

Rogan, James W. A specimen each of ant (Mulilla coccinea) and fossil;
from Tennessee.

Rogan, k. M. Specimen of bug; from Tennessee. (lor examination.)

Rogers, D. M. (through Hon. J. C. Clements). Specimen of ore; from
Georgia. (For examination.)

Roose, W. 8S. Specimen, in flesh, of peacock.

fioss, George W. Twospecimens of Tennessee building-stones.

Roulet, F. Stone knife and bird and boat-shaped implements; from
New York. (Lent for casting.)

Rowe, H. C., & Co., Fairhaven, Conn. An oyster hammer, knife and
opener. .
Ruby, Charles, U. S. A. Skins and skulls of wild cat, swift, antelopes,
deer, coyotes; antlers, lower jaw, and skin of elk; three specimens
of ambeystomas, a box of birds’ skins, nests, and eggs, and bottle

of micaceous sand; from Wyoming.

Runyan, J. C. Specimens of minerals; from Washington Territory.

Rusby, Henry H.- Twelve boxes of plants, box of fragmentary pottery,
bones, etc., and pair of sandals from cave, stone ax, an Indian carved
stick, and specimens of birds’ skins ; from New Mexico.

Ruth, John A. Box of Indian stone implements; from Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
152 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Salsbury, H. S. Six specimens of fossils (casts) ; from Wisconsin.

Sampson, I. A. Fifty-four specimens of cretaceous fossils ; from Texas.
(For identification.) :

San Francisco Cal., State, Mining Bureau. Cast of Indian stone hook;
from California.

Sankey, R. A. Specimens of pyrrhotite; from Colorado. (For exami-
nation.) é

Schieffelin, W. H. & Co., New York. A large collection of native and
manufactured chemical products.

Schneck, Dr. J. Four living specimens. of turtles: (Aspidonectes and
Malacoclemmys) ; from Mlinois.

Scatchler & Gibbs, San Francisco, Cal. Samples of cans and labels used
in the packing of Columbia River salmon.

Schooner Northern Eagle (through S. J. Martin). Fresh specimen of
sturgeon; from Ipswich Bay, Massachusetts.

Scott, Dr. J. M. Specimen of bat (Atalapha cinereus) ; from Virginia.

Scribner’s, Charles, Sons, New York. The “Game Fishes of North
America,” by G. Brown Goode and 8. A. Kilbourne. (Illustrated
with colored plates.)

Selkirk, J. H. Specimens of menhaden (Lrevoortia patronus); from
Texas.

Serrent, Samuel S. Box of minerals; from Virginia.

Seve, Edward, consul of Beigium, Philadelphia, Pa. Specimen of green
coffee; from Yungas Valley, Bolivia.

Severance, W. N. Section of larch (Tamarack) with fire-scar; 26 feet
below surface, at Olivia, Minn.

Shaler, Prof. N. S. A large collection of building stones and slates;
from Maine, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island.

Shaw, James. Human skeleton taken from mound near Savanna, Ili-
nois.

Sheldon, Prof. D. S. Specimens of parasites taken from the gills and
intestines of sturgeon, and two living serpents; from Iowa.

Shenandoah Valley Railroad Company, Luray, Va. Four specimens of
marble; from Luray, Va.

Shepard, Prof. Charles U. Ten specimens of minerals; from various
localities.

Shepard, Prof. C. U. Specimen of pagodite; from Georgia.

Shepard, N. B. Specimen of hematite ore; from Buckingham County,
Virginia.

Sherman, General W. T. Shield, flag, and crape used to drape the
catafalque of President Garfield, at Cleveland, Ohio, September 26,
1881.

Sherwood, G. P. Three specimens of New Brunswick, Canada, build-
ing stones.

Shields, George O. (through Dr. J. W. Velié). Three small herring (Ar-
gyrosomus) taken from stomach of pike caught in Long Lake, Wis-
consin.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 153

Shindler, A. Zeno. Alcoholic specimen of horned toad (Phrynosoma
cornutum).

Shoemaker, George. Four living snakes (Tropidonotus sipedon); a bottle
of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, and a collection of birds’ nests and
eggs; from the District of Columbia.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A. Box of insects from Fort Laramie, Wyo-
ming; alcoholic specimen of serpent, from the Isthmus of Darien;
four eggs of tortoise (Cistudo clausa) from Connecticut, and a col-
lection of 34 species of bird’s eggs.

Silver Lake Company, Wellington Bros. & Co., agents, Boston, Mass.
Twenty-nine samples of cordage.

Simmons, Dr. C. A. Five specimens of building stones; from Florida,

Simpson, Friench. Box of fossil bones; from Colorado County, Texas.

Sisson, H. & Son, Baltimore, Md. Specimen of building stones; from
France.

Skinner, Josiah. Four jars of aleoholic specimens of fishes (Dorysoma,
Stizostedium, Hyodon, Clupea, Catostomus,-&c.); from Alabama.

Small, GW. Specimen of flesh of porpoise; from Provincetown,
Mass.

Smith, A. W. A living specimen of milk snake (Ophibolus doliatus) ;
from Maryland.

Smith, Courtland A. Four specimens of rocks; from Prince William
County, Virginia.

Smith, George P. Cocoon of moth.

Smith, Prof. Hamilton L. Box of microscopic slides of infusoria.

Smith, Horace J. Samples of dried abolone meat; from Santa Bar-
bara, Cal. aie

Smith, John P. Box of stone implements, &c.; from Maryland.

Smith, Miss Rosa. A collection of fishes; from San Diego, Cal.

Smith, S. W. Box of minerals; from Pennsylvania. (For examina-

tion.)

Smock, J. C. Ninety specimens of building stones from New York and
New Jersey.

Smythe, George. Two boxes of coal; from the coal measures of Illi-
nois.

Snow, A. LZ. Specimen of clay impregnated with calcite; from Ten-
nessee. (For examination.)

Snowden, Fred. Two specimens of flying squirrels (Sciuropterus volu-
cella); from Virginia.

Snyder, E. S. Thirteen specimens of building stones; from West Vir-
ginia.

Sperr, F. W. Fifty specimens of building stones ; from Massachusetts,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, and one from France.

Sperry, BE. A. Specimen of orthoclase, actinolite, &e.; from Colorado.
(for examination.)

Spray, S.J. Specimen each of skunk and bird; from Colorado.
154 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Spring, H. C. Three specimens of ores; from Virginia. (lor examina-
tion.)

Springfield Soapstone Company, Springfield, Mlass. Two specimens of
soapstone; from Vermont.

Stanley, Henry O. A specimen of young land-locked salmon; from the
Androscoggin River, Maine.

Stearns, Silas. Three specimens of apparatus’ used in the Red Snapper
fishery, of Florida, and a bottle of colored sea water; from Pensacola
Bay.

Steele, J. G. Specimens of polished stone; from Lexington, Va.

Stevenson, James. Five specimens of building stones; from New Mex-
ico. See, also, Washington, Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
Ethnology.

Stewart, J. T.- Stone ax; from

Stewart, C. A. Specimen of bat; from Washington, D. C.

Stewart, M., & Co., Milwaukee, Wis. (through LE. G. Blackford). Speci-
men of white-fish, (Coregonus clupeiformis), weighing, when dressed,
114 Ibs.; from Lake Michigan.

Stilwell, G. MI. Specimen of salmon ; from the Penobscot River, Maine.

Stone, Livingston. Three boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes, from
the McCloud river, Cal.; specimens of snakes and lizards, box of ge-
ological specimens, box of birds’ nests and eggs, three boxes of fossils,
skin of young bear, and teeth and bones from Bear Cave 6; all from
California.

Stufilebeam, J. G. Specimens of pyrites ; from Madison County, Arkan-
sas. (For examination.)

Stuart, W. H. Specimens e young shad (Olupea sapidissima) ; from the
Potomac River.

Sturtevant & Cole., Bethel, Vt. Twospecimens of building stones ; from
Vermont.

Swan, Judge J. G. Two boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes (Oncor-
hynchus, Sebastichthys, Hippoglossus, Salmo, ete.) ; from Washington
Territory, and specimens of salted fish (‘‘Beshowe”); from Victoria.

Taylor, H. L. Specimen of hybrid fowl; from Virginia.

Taylor, Thomas. Three fossils; Maryland and North Carolina.

Taylor, William J. Six living terrapins and a box of mound remains;
from Georgia.

Tennessee Cotton Factory, Nashville, Tenn. Samples of cotton cloth.

Tennessee River Marble Company, Knoxville, Tenn. Two specimens of
building stones; from Tennessee.

Texas, Legislature of, Austin, Tex. Thirty specimens of building stones;
from Texas. ;

Thews, William. Two specimens of building stones ; from Idaho.

Thomas, A. D. Indian stone image (broken); from Hancock County,
Illinois.

/

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 155

Thompson, Professor. Silicified lower jaw of bison; from Veta Pass, Col-
orado.

Thompson, Capt. William (through J. W. Collins). Piece of sword-fish
snout, broken off in fishing schooner ; from Gloucester, Mass.

Thomson, John H. Specimens of ore; from New Mexico. (lor examin-
ation.)

Thomson, W. J. R. Specimens of embryonic centipede; from Texas.

Thurber, H. K. & F. B., & Co., New York, N. Y. Samples of labels and
cans used in packing fish, oysters, ete.

Tichkematse (Indian). Indian head-dress and shield of the Cheyenne
Indians.

Todd, Prof. J. E. Collection of Carboniferous fossils ; from Iowa and
Nebraska.

Tokio, Japan, University of (through Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass:)
Box of fragmentary Japanese pottery.

Toner, Dr. J. M. Piece of roofing and tiling taken from excavated
Roman villa at Morton, near Brading, Isle of Wight.

Tongue, George H. Small box of birds’ eggs; from Warrenton, Va.

Town, Matthew, Great Inagua, W. I. Three eggs of Flamingo.

Townsend, T. B. Specimen of Ohio building stone.

Trowbridge, S. H. Box of Indian implements (lent for inspection) and
box of fossils ; from Missouri.

Trumbull, Ei. Specimens of rocks; from Huron County, Ohio. (For
examination.)

Truzevant, George 8S. Specimens of fossils from the phosphate beds of
South Carolina.

Tufts, James W. Specimen each of Italian and New York marble.

Turner, Lucien M., Signal Service, U.S. A. Six boxes of general, natural
history and ethnologieal specimens, from Alaska; and two boxes of
birds’ skins, and a tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes, ete.; from

Illinois.

Underwood, William, & Co., Boston, Mass. Samples of cans, packages,
and labels used in the packing of fish, ete.

United States Stamping Company, New York. Box of samplesof stamped
tin-ware.

Valentine, G. Box of minerals; from Great Bend, Pa.

Vannoy, J. C. Specimen of minerals (Smithsonite, Limonite, Siliceous
sinter, etc.); from Virginia. (lor examination.)

Vanoy, Elijah. Specimen of ore; from Tennessee. (For examination.)

Velié, Dr. J. W. Collection of fishes, in alcohol; from Florida.

Vermillion, John. Specimenof malformed sweet potato; from Virginia.

Very, Samuel W., Lieutenant, U. S. N. A cassock or water-proof coat,
made of the skin of the hair-seal at Nain, Labrador, a mission station
of the Moravian Brotherhood.

Vetromite, Rev. Eugene. Specimens of Icalian shells.

Wachmuth, Charles. Nine specimens of building stones ; from Iowa.
156 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Wade, Lieut. E. C., U. S. Revenue Marine Steamer Moccasin. Two fossil
shark’s teeth and pieces of fossil vertebra.

Wagner, Henry. Specimen of moth; from Washington, D. C.

Walke, E. H. Specimen of shad, weighing seven pounds, and specimens
of lamprey eels (Petromyzon marinus) ; from Albemarle Sound.

Walker, S. T. Twelve packages, containing specimens of general nat-
ural history (reptiles, mammals, fishes, birds, insects, etc.), Indian
implements, mound remains, etc.; from Florida. ,

Wallace, John. A mounted specimen of rail (Porzana carolina).

Wallem, Frederick M. ° 'Two alcoholic specimens of trout, with parasites;
from Norway.

Ware, James. Four Indian stone relies; from Indiana.

Warner, J. S. Box of fossils and Indian implements ; from Tennessee.

Warner, W. R.,& Co., Philadelphia, Pa. Bottle containing specimens of
Irglervin.

Washington, D. C.:
Anthropological Society. Box of arrow-heads, spear-points, ete.
Department of State. (See under names of United States Consuls,

Philip Figyelmesy and W. H. Polleys.)

Treasury Department :

Revenue Marine Division. (See under names of Capt. C. L. Hooper,
Lieut. John Dennett, M. G. Marsilliot, and EL. C. Wade.)

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, Prof. J. HE. Hilgard, Super-
intendent. (See under names of Lieut. Commander Henry H.
Nichols, Marcus Baker, C. H. Boyd, Gershon Bradford, and W. H.
Dall.)

War Department:

Medical Department. (See under names of Doctors Elliott Coues, G.
W. Matthews, R. W. Shufeldt, H. C. Yarrow, and Timothy E. Wil-
cox, and Hospital Steward Charles Ruby.)

Pay Department. (See under name of Col. George L. Febiger.)

Quartermaster’s Department. (Seeundername of General M. C. Meigs.)

Signal Service, U. 8S. A. A collection of alcoholic specimens of.

fishes, crabs, star-fishes, etc.; from Greenland. (Sent by Dr.
Pavy to Capt. H. W. Howgate.) Also skin of bear; from Arctic
America. (See also under names of Sergeants LE. W. Nelson and
DL. M. Turner.

Subsistence Department. (See under name of General Robert Mac-
Seely.)

United States Army. (See under namesof Generals W. T. Sherman,
and Hatch, Colonels Dodge and Hodges, Captains Charles Bend-
ire, A. H. Miltimore, D. L. Huntington.

Navy Department :
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. (See under names of Doctors John
FI. Bransford, F. C. Dale.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 157

Navy Department—Continued.

Bureau of Navigation (Commodore W. D. Whiting, Chief of Bu-
reau). Specimens of ocean bottom taken by U. 8.8. Ranger, Com-
mander J. W. Phillips, commanding, between San Diego, Cal.,
and latitude 34° N., longitude 137° W.

Bureau of Provisions and Clothing. (See under names of Paymaster

A. W. Bacon, U. 8. N. Seeundernamesof Capt. L.A. Beardslee,
Commander H. IT. Gorringe, Lieut. Commander Henry EF. Nichols
LTieut. Samuel W. Very, and Master A. EH. Babcock.)

Bureau of Steam Engineering. (See under name of Chief Engineer
W. B. Brooks).

United States Naval Academy. (See under name of Prof. Charles E.
Munroe.) }

United States Naval Observatory. Manuscript of Capt. Charles F.
Hall relating to his voyages and explorations in Arctic America. °

Interior Department :

Bureau of Ethnology (J. W. Powell, Director). Fifty-five packages
of general collections of ethnology from Pueblo villages in New
Mexico, collected by James Stevenson, F. H. Cushing, H. J. Bid-
dle, and others. (See also under names of Rt. L. Packard and
James Stevenson.) °

United States Fish Commission. (Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Commis-
sioner.) Ninety-two boxes of general marine and other collections
obtained by the steamers Fish Hawk and Lookout and assistants
along the Atlantic sea-board. (See also under names of Z. C.
Chester, A. H. Clark, J. W. Collins, T. H. Bean, George G. Daven-
port, V. N. Edwards, Charles H. Gilbert, Ernest Ingersoll, D. 8.
Jordan, J. A. Kite, M. McDonald, S. J. Martin, W. I. Page, L.
Stone, Thomas Taylor, E. H. Walke, and W. A. Wilcox.)

United States Geological Survey (J. W. Povreell, Director). Twenty-
seven boxes of fossils collected by Prof. L. F. Ward in Colorado.

Waters, Pierre. Two bones from drum-fish (Haploidonotus grunniens) ;
from Washington.

Weaver & Corderoy. Box of clay, slate, and stone pipe; from In-
diana.

Wellington Brothers & Co., Boston, Mass. Box of samples of cordage.

Wells, J. H. Specimen of insect (Gryllotalpa borealis) ; from Ohio. (For
examination.)

Wells, J. G. Three boxes of birds’ skins; from Grenada, West Indies.

West, John, Westport, Oreg. Samples of cans and labels used in pack-
ing Columbia River salmon.

West, John. Weapon of bill-fish taken from the bottom of the brig
“‘ Meteor” of Alexandria, while on a voyage to Brazil in 1876.

Wharton, Joseph. Specimen of pure tin; from Corneto, State of Du-
rango, Mexico.
158 REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Wheeler, Charles Le Roy. Specimen of oolitice flint, and a fresh speci-
men of gravid porpoise (Phocena lineata) found on beach at Cape
May, N. J.

White, Dr. C. A. Block of Indian pipe-clay, from S. W. Minnesota; a
box of fossils, from Colorado; the type of Zygorobus Whitet ; a small
box of arrow-points, and a specimen of Triassic sandstone (core of
diamond drill); from Colorado.

White, C. W. A string of beads from 48 burial ground of the Waco
(Texas) Indians.

White, G. W. (through Hon. H. D. Money.) pean of ore from Missis-
sippi. (For examination.)

White, Dr. J. A. About 500 arrow points from ne (Purchased.)

Whitfield, k. P. Box of fossils; from the Black Hills, Dakota.

Wiggins, John B. Eight boxes of Indian stone relics, mound remains,
&e., from New York and Virginia, and specimens of an insect (Tremex
columbe), destructive to maple trees, at Waverly, N. Y.

Wilcox, Joseph. Four specimens of Seabank from Hernando
County, Florida.

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., U.S. A. Specimens of unios from Boise River,
Idaho, and a skin of (Lanius borealis); from Idaho.

Wileox, W. A. Three specimens of cusk (Lrosmius brosme), from
Boston markets, and a tumor taken from a salted cod-fish.

Wilkesbarre, Pa., Natural History and Geological Society of. Speci-
mens of black muck.

Wilkinson, H., Jr. A collection of marine shells; from Lower Cali-
fornia. (For examination).

Williams, J. F. A small quartz crystal; from mountains, Pennsyl-
vania.

Williams, J. M. Deformed lobster claw; from Ellsworth, Me.

Williamson, W. A. four vials, containing specimens of young sponges,
fishes, insects, and ee and two boxes of insects and shells; from

Canada.

Willson, W. L., Philadelphia, Pa. Samples of encaustic floor tiles.

Willson, J. H. Two specimens of minerals; from Virginia. (For ex-
amination.)

Wingate, J. D. Living-horned toad (Phrynosoma); from Pennsyl-
vania.

Winchell, N. H. A large collection of specimens of building stones
and slates; from Dakota and Minnesota.

Winthrop, I. A. Pharyngeal bone of fresh-water drum (Haploidonotus
grunniens) ; from Minnesota.

Wittfield, Wiliam. <A box, containing alcoholic specimens of reptiles,
fishes, insects, and shells ; from Florida.

Wolff, J. H. <A large collection of specimens of building stones ‘from
Maine, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 159

.

Woodman, Dr. H. T. Indian figure (frog) pipe (purchased) and a pipe
of black stone and a partially drilled banner stone; from Indiana.

Wooster, A. F. Box of birds’ eggs; from Connecticut.

Worth, S. G. Four specimens of land-locked salmon ; from North Caro-
lina.

Wright, Abel C. Five specimens of fishes ; from Georgia.

Wright, B. H. Box of fossils; from New York.

Wright, James. Two specimens of building stones ; from Tennessee.

Wright, L. A. <A living centipede and horned-frog; from Texas.

Wynn, Rev. L. B. Small box of minerals; from Virginia. (lor exami-
nation.)

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. Seven alcoholic specimens of reptiles.(Opheosaurus,
Cyclophis, Alligator, etc.) ; from Fort Macon, N. C.

Yarrow, John. Two bottles of alcoholic specimens of insects.

Yeates, W. S. Specimens of fossil sharks’ teeth ; from North Carolina.

Zeledon, José C. A small collection of birds’ skins; from Costa Rica.

Unknown. Box of building stones; specimen of haddock ; specimen of

fish; from Canada. Box of minerals; from New Hampshire. Liv-

ing snake (Diadophis punctatus); from the District of Columbia.

Specimen of butterfly ; samples of ‘ dried” cider and milk.
~

ds
REPORT OF THE CHEMIST.
FRED. W. TAYLOR.

The chemist was occupied during the first part of the year in making
a partial catalogue and in overhauling that part of the collection of
minerals and rocks at that time stored in the Smithsonian building, and
in making some partial disposal of the duplicates, packing them in sets
for distribution and arranging them so that they could be found.

Preparations for the removal to new quarters and plans for a new lab-
oratory soon however consumed all the available time, and later he was
engaged in the removal of the laboratory from the Smithsonian build-
ing to that of the National Museum. Unfortunately, this occurred about
the middle of February, when every one was busily occupied in making
preparatious for the coming inauguration and the festivities which fol-
lowed this event. Much time was lost, and it was not until April fol-
lowing that the laboratory was ready for work. Perhaps a brief descrip-
tion of tis present quarters, with their location and equipment, would
not be out of place.

The new laboratory is located in the soutliwest corner of the new
Museum building, in what is called the Southwest Pavilion, and occupies
the entire second floor of the same. The rooms on the second floor are
four innumber—the laboratory proper, 25 feet square ; the balance room,
12 by 16 feet, and the office, a small room, similar in size to the balance
room; the fourth room is in what is called the annex, on the same floor,
and has been fitted up as an assay room.

The laboratory, A, is a large well-lighted room, and, as already stated,
25 feet square. It is fitted with two wall desks, a and b, placed against
the south and west halls. These desks are of white pine throughout, 3
feet high and 2 feet wide, divided below into drawers and lockers.
Above is placed the usual rack for re-agents, and above that a case fill-
ing the space above to the ceiling. The north wall is occupied by a
long wall case, ¢c, divided into three compartments, and used for chem-
loals and apparatus ; the east wall is occupied by a similar case, d, and
the acid or fume chamber, e. j
_ The south wall desk has two large sinks, ss, oneat each end; and in the
southwest corner are placed two Bunsen pumps. These are connected
with the desks, and so arranged that each desk has three points of con-
nection. East of the laboratory we have the balance room, B; this
room has been very handsomely fitted up with wall cases of black wal-
nut, occupying the west and north walls. These cases fill the entire
space from floor to ceiling, the lower part being divided into drawers.
All choice apparatus, platinum, graduated glassware, and extra glass-
ware is kept m this room.

The balances are five in number—a large analytical, carrying one kilo-
gramme; one medium size analytical, to carry two hundred grammes ;

S. Mis. 109—11 a
REPORT OF THE CHEMIST.

162

x _. F. W. TAYLOR, Chemist, 1882.

WYW==2 = YG 3

a = miZ YW a
7

yu

] |
L LES eres

CHEMICAL LABORATORY
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Scale, 10 ft. = 1 inch. Y

REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 163

one of Becker’s small prescription balances, to carry one hundred
grammes and turn with one milligramme (this balance is exceedingly
handy for proximate weighings, fluxes, &e.); one pulp scale, for ‘veigh-
ing out assay charges, with a set of Chandler’s assay ton weights; and
one assay balance for buttons, showing one one-hundreth of a milli-
gramme. All of the balances are Becker & Son’s make. In addition
to the above, the laboratory also possesses one Jolly’s balance, for
specific gravity determination.

North of the laboratory, and separated from it by a hall-way, is the
assay room, D. The permanent fittings here are, first, one small Hibb’s
furnace, a, with a4 by 10 inch muffle; a large Battersea mufile furnace,
b, with a 6 by 14 inch muffle, and a crucible furnace, c.

In addition to the assay furnace, the room also contains the apparatus
for furnishing distilled water and a large sand bath, d. It is the desire
of the chemist and the intention of the Director of the Museum to add
to the equipment some form of crusher, probably one of Blake’s excel-
lent laboratory crushers, and if possible some kind of a grinding ma-
chine; these will if possible be driven by steam power, supplied from
the engine-room.

On the third floor is a large room the full size of the pavilion, as it
is called, about 37 feet square, at present used only as a storage room.
It is the intention of the Director to fit up this room as a qualitative
laboratory. The work of the Institution consists at present largely in
the qualitative examination and determination of minerals and ores,
received from almost every part of the United States, and often wrongly
named, if named at all, by the collectors. It is often very inconvenient
to carry on work of that kind in a room where quantitative work is in
progress, and this room, when fitted up, might also be used as a labor-
atory for special research.

It will be seen that with one or two exceptions the laboratory is pretty
well fitted up and equipped for two chemists; the supply of glass and
porcelain ware is amply suflicient; one of the exceptions is in the plati-
num ware and another in the lack of another analytical balance. There
are however two reasons for this defect ; one the lack of any definite
appropriation for fitting up a laboratory, and, second, the fact that the
Superintendent of the Tenth Census has signified his intention to de-
posit the platinum ware and balances of the Newport laboratory in the
Museum, to be used in any work connected with the Census, as the only
work done besides the routine work of the Institution is done in connec-
tion with the Census of the building stones of the United States. This
‘seems eminently proper, and this addition will supply all the existing
deficiencies, giving the laboratory an especially large and valuable sup-
ply of platinum ware. The only fault that can be found with the pres-
ent quarters is the insufficiency of means for proper ventilation; the
fume chamber is not large enough, and the flue used is hardly large
enough to exhaust itproperly. Unfortunately, this is a case that is hard
164 REPORT OF THE CHEMIST.

to remedy. The ceiling is perhaps a little low, but if the ventilation was
better that would matter but little.

In regard to the work done little can be said; it is of so varied a nature
that hardly any two analyses can be connected to draw any conclusions
from or establish any facts.

When'the collections of the Museum are fully identified and arranged
there will be time for scientific work and investigation: subjects are
abundant, and as a repository for the Geological Survey, the Depart-
mentof the Interior, &c., the Museum must some day possess the largest
and most complete collection of the minerals, ores, and rocks of America,
and of the world, that has ever been collected together in any one
museum.

The work done for the Institution by the chemist has been the identi-
fication of numerous specimens sent in from different localities, analyses
and assays of various ores, iron, gold, silver, &c., which have been under-
taken whenever it was thought they might aid in developing the min-
eral resources of the country. The chemist has received specimens of
cold and silver ores for examination, some showing the precious metals,
«thers devoid of even a trace; one interesting specimen was received,
said to be from New Mexico; the specimen was arsenical pyrite; the piece
was completely filled with small nuggets of gold from the size of a pin
point up to the size of an ordinary pin head; the nuggets were not pure
gold, but alloyed with a little silver; the assay gave a value of nearly
thirty thousand dollars to the ton.

In iron ores the same variation has been found, some few being of
value, while others have been worthless ; copper ores, most as carbonate,
with some little native copper, have not beenwanting. Lead,inthe form
of galena, has also been received, generally as silver ore, though most
of it has proved of little value except as a source of lead. Tin ore has
also been received, though unfortunately the specimens contained no
tin; one interesting specimen of this kind presented to the chemist with
the assurance that it contained eight per cent. of tin consisted of a mass
of small crystals of tourmaline.

Among the analyses made may be mentioned one of a sample of water
from the Eureka Springs, Arkansas. The sample was shipped and re-
ceived during very warm weather, and was entirely devoid of any con-
tained gases. The analysis shows only the comparatively small quantity
of solid constituents contained in the water—8.81 grains to the gallon of
231 cubic inches.

Among the few specimens of interest received may be mentioned three
small samples from the excavation for a new court-house at Scranton,
Pa., one of the peat, one of the black muck, and another of the jelly
‘like substance so well described by Professor Lewis, of the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, under the title of ‘A jelly-like sub-
stance resembling Dopplerite.” The samples received by the chemist
contained 87 per cent. of water, 6.86 of volatile matter, 3.52 of fixed car-
bon, and 2.47 ash.

REPORT OF THE CHEMIST. 165

The chemist is now engaged in making analyses of a number of sam-
ples of the galvanized iron wire used by the Signal Bureau of the War
Department. It is impossible to say anything in regard to these analy-
ses without going into details that would be of little interest in this part
of the report. The object is believed to be to aid an attempt to establish
some relation between the chemical composition of the wire and its
power of conduction.

The laboratory work done by the chemist has been in answer to letters
referred to him by the Secretary, as follows: Twenty-six assays, involv-
jng twenty-nine determinations; thirty-one’ quantitative analyses, in-
volving one hundred and seventy-four determinations, and thirty-two
qualitative reports, identifying seventy-nine specimens; also a report on
the specific gravity of a number of specimens of Jadeite from South
America; he has also prepared answers to numerous letters received by
the Institution in reference to chemical subjects.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR

1881.

_ The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithso-
nian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to
the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures
for both the Institution and the Museum for 1881, and the estimates for
the year 1882:

Condition of the funds January 1, 1882.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James
Smithson, deposited in the Treasury of the United
States in accordance with the act of Congress of August

EL AO y sce eA tA Y or FG ties 2 ale, Neen Me cists ieibic, Spore as aye $515, 169 00
Residuary legacy of Smithson added to the fund by act

Pe CONE TESS PE GUEBATY Oo (hOOG..0 oan taste os) =). eS 26, 210 63
Additions to the fund, from savings, &c., by act of Con-

PRESS MOULHALY O; MOON eo cis ots oe as Colas eee cet 108, 620 37
Bequest of James Hamilton, of Pennsylvania, 1874....... 1, 000 00
Bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York, 1880....... 500 00
Proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds, 1881...............- 51, 500 00

‘Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interestat 6 per cent.per annum. $703, 000 00

Statement of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1881.
RECEIPTS.

Interest for the year 1881,from the United

BREEN sete elon ann See et sitet aie ine riots ere $41, 735 54
Sale of Virginia bondsand deferred certificates 50,514 98
Sale of Virginia coupons due January 1, 1881. 1, 632 26
Balance cash on hand January 1, 1881 ..... 20, 934 52

Total receipts: 22.6 ecwie cise s ae 114, 817 30

167
168 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

EXPENDITURES.
For building:
tepairs and improvements....... $538 63
Furniture:and fixtures.......2.... 572 O07
ree $1,110 70
General expenses :
Meetings of the board .-........ $257 00
Lighting the building ...-........ 55 40
Heating the building...........- 996 75
Postage and telegraph..........- 43 01
iahlOnery so). 2a. se eee ee 962 86
Incidentals, freight, nadling, 1€e;
blanks SG ..20 7. ayo © ae meres LOLTEOT
Books oa periodicals: 22). 2 1,979 26
salaries and labor -22. 322-622 5: 13, 266 50
— — 18,568 75
Publications and researches:
Smithsonian contributions. ...... 4,577 44
Miscellaneous collections ........ 3,170 03
ANNUAL PEPOLiS:.*.jecioeee eens 2,223 59
P=plorahlOMsyys ose cee se ae eels 943 43
—— 10, 914 49
Literary and scientific exchanges. 7,467 84
38, 061 78
Cash deposited with the Treasurer of the United
States to the credit of the Smithson fund,
being proceeds of sale of the Virginia bonds
($50,514.98) and part of coupons ($985.02), by
virtue of act of Congress, approved February
SHISC C2 55.8 FACE ee eee On eared ata tain ae Een 51, 500: 00
Total expended so onesies ase — 89,561 78
.Leaving balance on hand January 1, 1882 .....-... 25, 255 52

VIRGINIA BONDS.

At the meeting of the Board of Regents, 19th of January, 1881, the
Executive Committee was authorized to dispose of the Virginia securi-
ties owned by the Institution,and to deposit the proceeds in the Treas-
ury of the United States as an addition to the permanent fund.

The committee having duly considered the subject, decided to make
the sale, which was effected through the agency of Messrs. Riggs & Co.,
bankers, with the following result:
$58, 700 00 par value, of Virginia consolidated bonds (sold

-at an average of about 79 per cent.) .....-.-- $46, 417 87
29,375 O07 par value of Virginia deferred certificates, sold
at about Iss per cent: cic 04 e eee caret eee 4,039 08 —
50.13 par value of Virginia scrip, at 1153........-... 58 03 |

88, 125 20 Pokal’ ook Micali ctv Nal as nolan 50, 514 98

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 169

It is gratifying to state that the amount realized by the sale of the
Virginia securities was $3,514.98 more than their estimated value in our
last annual report.

The coupons due on the Virginia bonds January 1, 1881, were sold
by Messrs. Riggs & Co. January 31, 1881, as follows:

$1, 461 Virginia coupons, at 934, less one-half per cent.... $1,353 26
300 Virginia coupons, at 933, less one-half per cent ..- . 279 00
i 761 DES 7 Mea 5 USES RE cD a Oe aN 1, 632 26

Of this the committee used $985.02 to add to the proceeds of the sale
of the Virginia bonds, to make the even sum of $51,500, to increase the
permanent fund, as before stated, leaving the balance of $647.24 for
current expenses.

ESTIMATES FOR 1882.

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution proper
for the year 1882, and of the expenditures required for carrying on its
operations during the same period.

RECEIPTS.

Interest on the permanent Smithson fund, receivable July

HelSS2. ani sanuary 1) 1883 eo. be 3 See aicle $42, 180 00
EXPENDITURES.
Hor building and repairs). ...-...-.--.652.- $1,500 00
For general expenses, heating, lighting, &c.,
mclnding: SALATICS ws. Sa -\o slo H.fs lee wee ake 19, 000 00
Yor publications and researches..........-- 12,000 00
RST MMA TICES icf .y wpe! ats a/b, a bos olere are eiapainye st 7,000 00
Peter COMI SCNCIOS 2) 25.2 5.0 oa c's! eine cloeie sales 2,680 00
dp DRO eee rN as PLUS Ra lel SOLE Mc te RI SS ES SR $42,180 00

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1881, for dis-
bursement under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution :

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS.

“For preservation and care of the collections of the sur-
veying and exploring expeditions of the government and
for expense of heating, lighting, telephonic, and elec-
trical service for the new Museum building.” (Act March
TACT) Ne yates ORR Oat diel Se eA 8 A ee CO $61,000 00
170 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

“Tor transfer to, and arrangement in, the new National
Museum building, of the collections of the United States
surveying and exploring expeditions, and of the speci-
mens presented to the United States at the International

Exhibition of 1876.” (Deficiency act, March 3,1881) . .. $10,000 00
(otal amount appropriated. ccs) se.0. 2660. 5- aoa 71, 000 00
Expended as per vouchers audited -2 2... -2:<.2.(/-22- = 38, 117 81
Balance available’ January 1, 1882)... sci. eee eee else 32, 882 19

ARMORY BUILDING.

‘‘ For watching, care, and storage of duplicate government col-
lections, and of property of the United States Fish Com-

mission.” ) (Act March 3, 1881): 2.02. -252.-- =. 072s _-.-. $2,500 00
Eixpended. as per vouchers ‘audited... .... 022.25. -i5---+--2 1,441 87
Balance available’ January 1, 1882. je or2 oc Se ene mete ant 1, 058 13.

FUBNITURE AND FIXTURES.

‘For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for the exhibi-
tion of the collections of geology, mineralogy, natural his-
tory, ethnology, and technology belonging to the United

States.” (Ace Marche3, 1881) 2.2 si ob ieee serene $60, 000 00:
Expended as per vouchers audited...-.... rer eee ane kos 34, 380 94
Balance available January 1, 1882...............-.-.----- 25, 619. 06:

FIRE-PROOF BUILDING, NATIONAL MUSEUM.

‘¢ For flooring of marble and encaustic tiles in the large halls

of the National Museum Building.” (Act February 9, 1881) .$26,000 00:
‘For additional amount required for running the relieving

sewer of the National Museum building into the north B

street sewer instead of into the Seventh street sewer.” (Act

NPATCH StI SSI oe oo sir2 4s ce en eee ee eC 900 00
Total amount appropriated <. Fis. urls sro e eel etee een 26, 900 00:
Expended as per vouchers audited...........-..---------- 21, 582 35

Balance available January 1, 1882...........------------: 5, 317 65:
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 171
NORTH AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

“For continuing ethnological researches among the North
American Indians, under the direction of the secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, $25,000, of which$5,000 are to
be expended in continuing archeological investigations
relating to mound-builders and prehistoric mounds.” (Act

EERO S.L)) cosa Se epeer ae alta atts eels are Coe ha yeahitee $25, 000 00
ixpended as per vouchers audited ...........:5 0.20, 000.- 16,459 10
Balance available January 1, 1882. ..........--.-....,--- 8, 540 90

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

“For the expense of exchanging literary and scientific pro-
ductions with all nations by the Smithsonian Institution.”

Act March 3, 1881) AES Sede fo SG WE Nie EL ta, ONE eng ed $3, 000 00
Expended as per vouchers audited ............--.... oaiaenye hale OU ON
Balance available January 1, 1882-........22...-22..--2--- 1, 500 00

POLARIS REPORT.

Balance available January 1, 1881............-........... $6,183 66

PGT OG: siete abi ckiey: cha eye elaicHertn image bes Lista pean Sela 2,585 91
Balance available January 1, 1882.................00..00- 3, 597 75
CONCLUSION.

The Executive Committee has examined 730 vouchers for payments
made from the Smithson income during the year 1881, and 1,976
vouchers for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum, making a total of 2,706 vouchers. All these bear
the approval of the Secretary of the Institution and a certificate that
the materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the
Institution or of the Museum.

The Committee has examined the account books of the National Mu-
seum, and find the balances unexpended as before stated, viz: Preser-
vation of collections, $32,882.19 ; armory building, $1,058.13; furniture
and fixtures, $25,619.06 ; international exchanges, $1,500, to correspond
with the certificates of the disbursing clerk of the Department of the
Interior; and the balances for fire-proof building, National Museum,
$5,317.65; Polaris report, $3,597.75, to correspond with the certificates
of the disbursing clerk of the Treasury Department.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and journals
have likewise been examined and found to be correct.
ie, REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The balance to the credit of the Institution proper, on the Ist of
January, 1882, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United States,
available for the current operations of the Institution, is $25,255.52.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
W. T. SHERMAN,

Executive Committee.
WASHINGTON, D. C., January 16, 1882.

Dr. Maclean’s examination of the expenditures and vouchers was
limited to those of the Smithsonian Institution proper.
;
|

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING COMMISSION
FOR 1881.

OFFICE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 2, 1882.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: By resolution of the Board of Regents of January 17,
1879, the Executive Committee of the Board and the Secretary of the
Institution was authorized to “act for and in the name’of the Board of
Regents in carrying into effect the provision of any act of Congress that
might be passed providing for the erection of a building for the National
Museum,” the care and administration of which establishment is en-
trusted to the Smithsonian Institution.

The anticipated provision having been made on the 3d of March, 1879,
by a Congressional appropriation of $250,000 “ for a fire-proof building
for the use of the National Museum, to be erected under the direction of
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,” in pursuance of authority
vested in them by your Board, the Executive Committee and the Secre-
tary, after organizing on the 7th of March, 1879, under the title of Na-
tional Museum Building Commission, proceeded to adopt such measures
as in their opinion appeared best calculated to realize, with the least
possible delay, the intention of Congress.

At the session of the Board in January, 1880, the Commission had the
honor to present to you a report of the operations connected with the
construction of the new building from their inauguration to the close of
1879; and again, early in January, 1881, a similar report of progress
during 1880 was submitted. These documents were respectively accom-
panied by reports of the superintending architects, which, while giving
a technical and descriptive record of the plan, design, and construction
of the building, presented accurately detailed exhibits of expenditures:

Having thus laid before you a record of operations of construction to
the close of 1880, it only remains for the Commission to call the atten-
tion of the Board to those of the year just closed.

At the beginning of this period the balance to the credit of the appro-
priation was $5,050.33, of which, however, $1,000 was a specific appro-
priation for the construction of a sewer to relieve the building from water,
which, on account of the inadequacy of the Seventh street sewer during
extraordinary rains, would flood the cellars. It being ascertained sub-
sequently, however, that this amount was insufficient, an additional $900
was voted by Congress to be applied to sewer purposes. With the appro-

. 173
174 REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION.

priation thus increased, the work was promptly begun and successfully
carried to completion under the direction of the engineer of the District
of Columbia, Lieutenant Hoxie, who is entitled to the thanks of the
Board for this service.

Early in the year an appropriation of $26,000 was granted to defray
the expense of a tile floor for the naves and rotunda, and on its becom-
ing available, plans for the work were prepared by the architects, from
which a selection was made by the Commission and copies sent to various
parties, with a request for proposals for executing the same. A number
of proposals were received and opened on the 16th of April, the succes-
ful bidders being Mr. Emil Fritsch, of New York, for the marble tiles,
and the United States Encaustic Tile Company, of Indianapolis, for the
encaustic tiles for the rotunda. Both these parties have faithfully ful-
filled their contracts ; and with wood flooring on the halls that remained
unfinished at the close of 1880, the two and a quarter acres of interior
ground space of the building now presents a smooth and durable walk-
ing surface. In addition, the north front platform has been floored in
a neat pattern of marble tiles, the inner vestibules of the four main
entrances in encaustic tiles, and the outer vestibules laid in cement.

Owing to its insecure condition, the plaster covering was, during the
summer, removed from all ceilings of the low, flat roofs. These, it will
be remembered, consist of gratings of wood fastened between the iron —
girders and filled with mortar composed of plaster of Paris and ashes,
a form of ceiling suggested by the consulting engineer, General
Meigs. The surface exposed by removal of the plaster has been calci-
mined in subdued tints. In one of the outer halls thus treated a sup-
plementary corrugated iron ceiling has been put in place, which, with
the ceiling of gratings above, incloses an air space, serving to prevent
the scape of heat in winter and renders the building cooler than formerly
in summer.

In this connection it may be proper to state that the patentee of an —
apparatus for moistening air by means of a system of aspirators, where-
by it is claimed that in hot weather a reduction of temperature of eight
or ten degrees can be accomplished, and that the air is rendered more
wholesome at all times, has offered to apply his invention to the new
building for $7,000. This apparatus is in use in certain cotton mills in
New England for the purpose of improving the facilities of cotton spin-
ning; but the question of its employment for the Museum is, of course,
one for determination in the future.

An octagonal fountain basin, of twenty feet diameter, composed of |
arim of molded polished granite and cement floor, has been erected in
the rotunda. This, while a pleasing feature in an esthetic point of
view, materially lessened the expense for encaustic tiling by reducing the
space to be floored.

The radiators remaining unfinished at the close of last year are now
all bronzed and the steam-pipes covered with asbestos. The heating
REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. ha fea

apparatus continues to operate satisfactorily, both as regards the work-
ing of the various parts of the machinery and in an economical con-
sumption of fuel. The severe winter of 1880-81 subjected the ap-
paratus to a test more trying than will be likely to occur again in many
years.

For fuller information, however, in regard to operations of construc-
tion, as well as for details of expenditures, the Board is respectfully re-
ferred, as in previous reports of the Commission, to an appended state-
ment of the superintending architects.

Although not directly connected with operations of construction, it
is deemed not out of place to mention here that the use of the new build-
ing was granted for the reception ceremonies attending the inaugura-
tion of President Garfield on the evening of the 4th of March last, in
view of the event being of a national character, and of the fact that the
President-elect had been a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution for
many years. No expense was incurred by the Museum in connection
with this occupation.

Since the last meeting of the Board, the United States Geological Sur-
vey and the Bureau of Ethnology have been accommodated with quar-
ters in the northeast pavilion, while space has also been freely provided
for a large clerical force detailed by General Walker in connection with
working up the fisheries statistics for the census report.

During the year the Commission has met as often as was deemed neces-
sary. General M. C. Meigs, the consulting engineer, besides attending
these meetings, has continued his visits to the building and given close
and critical attention to the many features of its construction. For
these and other valuable services he has rendered the Commission it is
respectfully suggested that suitable acknowledgment be made by the
Board of Regents.

It is very gratifying to the Commission to be able to state that the
conscientious attention paid by the architects to the work they have
had in hand in connection with the construction of the new edifice is
in keeping with their professional reputation; also, that the attachés
of the Commission generally have faithfully discharged every duty im-
posed upon them; and that while more than eight hundred vouchers,
in duplicate, have been presented to the United States Treasury for
payment, not a single one has been returned or otherwise questioned
by the accounting officers.

In closing this its third annual report, the National Museum Build-
ing Commission congratulates the Regents that the new building for
the National Museum is so far completed as to be ready for occupancy ;
and in now asking the Board to take charge of the edifice, the Commis-
sion begs to refer to the important fact that, while a building is pre-
sented equal in every respect to what was anticipated in case provision
should be made for additional quarters for the national collections in-
trusted to the care of the Smithsonian Institution, instead of incurring
176 REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION.

a deficiency, the fund has been so managed as to have to its credit at
the present moment an available balance of some thousands of dollars.

Having fulfilled the duties with which it was charged by your resolu-
tion of January 17, 1879, the Commission would respectfully ask to be
discharged, and to be authorized to turn over to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution the building itself, and to the United States
Treasury whatever balance of money may remain after liquidating the
last liability on account of the construction of the edifice.

Respectfully submitted.
W. T. SHERMAN,

PETER PARKER,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
National Museum Building Commission.
REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM
BUILDING FOR 1881.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 1, 1882.

To General W. T. SHERMAN,
Chairman National Museum Building Commission :

Sir: We have the honor to submit a report on the completion of vari-
ous improvements in the National Museum Building, under the appro-
priations available for the purpose since January 1, 1881, the date of
our last report.

To facilitate the carrying of steam to the great distances required for
heating the offices at the four corners of the building, the steam mains
were covered with thick layers of hair felt, protected by asbestos, as far
as the funds would permit, and a favorable result was obtained.

The main halls were floored with white-veined, red, black, and gray
marble tiles, laid in chaste patterns. The marble tiling was surrounded
by a frieze of dark-blue Pennsylvania slate of sufficient thickness tm
bridge the ducts containing the steam-pipes, wires, &c.; and around
the frieze a border of parti-colored Portland cement pavement was ex-
tended.

This tiling covers about half an acre, and was obtained after public
advertisement from the lowest bidder, Mr. E. Fritsch, of New York, who
completed it satisfactorily about the middle of September.

An octagonal fountain, with sides of molded and polished granite,

and floor of Portland cement, was constructed and finished in the early
part of August. The floor of the rotunda around the fountain was laid
with encaustic tile, according to our designs.
Proposals for these tiles were invited from all the manufacturers in
this line in the country, as well as from the leading importers. The
United States Encaustic Tile Company, of Indianapolis, Ind., was
awarded the work as the lowest bidder, and completed it quite satis-
factorily about the 1st of October. It is a creditable specimen of a.
branch of industry now being successfully introduced in the country.

The four square halls were floored with best Georgia yellow pine,.
laid upon a concrete base, since this material was preferred for special:
reasons.

S. Mis. 109: 12 177

rl
On

178 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS.

Tbe spacious platform in front of the northern main entrance was laiil
with a floor of ornamental marble tile.

A sewer has been constructed through the Smithsonian grounds, di-
rectly to the main sewer along North B street, and the building is now
disconnected from the overcharged branch sewers of the city.

All the plumbing fixtures necessary or proper to be introduced in the
building for safety, for the accommodation of visitors, as well as officials,
such as fire-plugs, sinks, wash-basins, water-closets, and urinals, were
provided for and constructed during the season in strict accordance with
the present requirements of sanitary science.

A large number (thirty-two) of the sash-windows in the lanterns of
the main and square halls have been made movable in sections by sim-
ple mechanism worked from the floors of the halls. This improvement
has proved to be a valuable agent for summer ventilation during the hot
spells peculiar to our climate.

Several partitions of fire-proof concrete material have been con-
structed in the two eastern corner pavilions for the better accommoda-
tion of the service.

An important improvement has been introduced in one of the outside
halls by the construction and hanging of a comely iron ceiling under-
neath, and parted by an air space, from the roof. The double ceiling
has added materially to the sanitary advantages of the building, and it

. is highly desirable to have it extended over the whole building.

The slates of the roofs are hung to iron purlines, and are plastered
on their under side with a heavy coat of mortar. During rapid changes
of the temperature, moisture arising from the process of condensation of
aerial vapor appears occasionally on this plastered surface which forms
the ceiling of the principal halls ; this will be obviated by the hung iron
ceiling with air space between it and the plastered slates.

The roofs and ceilings of the lower halls are formed by sheet metal
laid upon fire-proofed gratings, which are again plastered on the under
side. The adherence of the plasterer’s mortar to the greasy fire-proof
composition has proved to be insufficient, and it fell in a number of

patches. The whole surface so covered, aggregating about 3,600 square —

yards, and costing about $720, was hence removed, and the proposed
iron ceilings will incidentally serve to hide the unsightly surface of the
exposed gratings.

The action of the rapid changes of the temperature during our sum-
mer months, in causing expansion and contraction of building material
disposed in great lengths throughout this extensive structure, has occa-
sionally baffled the provided safeguards. It has been carefully watched,
and small imperfections have been remedied wherever and as soon as
they appeared. With comparatively little more attention they will be
completely under control.

|
!

REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 179

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

The available funds were :
Balance from former appropriations in hands of the dis-
bursing agent on January 1, 1881 . ................ $5, 050 33
Appropropriation by Congress for tile-floors, &c....... 26,000 00
Additional appropriation for sewer to North B street... 900 00

31,950 33

SCHEDULE ACCOUNT OF EXPENDITURES TO JANUARY lip 1882.

Heating apparatus :

For steam-fitters’ work and material........ $3, 418 18
For non-conducting lining around steam
POMPE Sees ceicreh ler ss ene iste o's bees BAO IOe d 732 85
—— $4,151 03
Floors :
A.—Marble-slate tiling of four main halls:
icgandilabor of laying? ss. 2 Woh oes ee 8, 756 63
RPPIREITG Rts a5. t cy eyes SSS atte wae en 1,257 45
SPL 22 ie Re ee eh eee aE ee 152 25
Miscellancousiabor 22): 2s. aches eke 53 33
Wall borders of ornamental cement work.... 1,014 05
B.—F loor of rotunda :
POMONA Ae ee es tl, TDA, A Sen) ood Uh dR 957 12
Encaustic tiling (outstanding, $1,934.29).
C.—Tiled platform in front of main entrance... 595 10
D.—Floors of four square halls..........:...-. 2,081 53
E.—Cement pavements outside of building. nar 268 77
15, 136 23
Fire-proof partitions :
Construction ........ Bite ea eaiaiiereis sae crock 280 40
AEA GOUAMEEE crn oe ale Minin cys a ec siote's. sino = B/S Ga = ays 59 00
339 40
Ventilation :
Movable sash in lanterns of main and square halls... .. 531 20
Iron ceilings:
One iron ceiling over southwest outer hall.............. 962 10
Sewer:
| Cost of main sewer through Smithsonian grounds..... 1,437 17
Miscellaneous :
WECOTALIONS w2sso oy un cecccielae POP eee aire! BLE f 80 00
AGGNTON AL StS P-PAUIMES Goes 2 o.u)b i464 Saisie s sewers widow's 662 18

Improvements to roofs, down-spouts, galvanized-i ‘iron
work, finishings of plastering............ ee Ria. 949 51
180 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS.

Miscellaneous— Continued.

Printing, advertising, and photographing............. $213 86
Clerk hire and notary fees .-.... DRESS Sloat iste eee re a 345 00
Construction and superintendence.......-.-..---.---- 1, 750 00

Balance in hands of disbursing agent on December 31,
Bree O6 oS o Ao ta ee ae ee eee eta ee deface: 5, 392 65
31, 950 33

The balance in hand will suffice to pay up all outstanding liabilities.
We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
CLUSS & SCHULZE,
Supervising Architects.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM.

In continuation from previous reports.

Cap. 179, An act extending the privilege of the Library of Congress to the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Be it enacted, &c., That the Joint Committee of both Houses of Con-
gress on the Library, be authorized to extend the use of the books inthe
Library of Congress to the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, resi-
dent in Washington, on the same conditions and restrictions as mem-
bers of Congress are allowed to use the Library.

Approved March 3, 1875.

(Stat., vol. 18, sec. 512; Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 195.)

CuapP. 103. An act establishing post-roads, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted, &e. :

Sc. 5. That it shall be lawful to transmit through the mail, free of
postage, any letters, packages, or other matters relating exclusively to
the business of the Government of the United States : Provided, That
every such letter or package, to entitle it to pass free, shall bear over
the words “ Official business” an endorsement showing also the name
of the department, and, if from a bureau or office, the names of the de
partment and bureau or office, as the case may be, whence transmitted.
And if any person shall make use of any such official envelope to avoid
the payment of postage on his private letter, package, or other matter
in the mail, the person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a misde-
meanor, and subject toa fine of three hundred dollars, to be prosecuted
in any court of competent jurisdiction.

Suc. 6. That for the purpose of carrying this act into effect, it shall
be the duty of each of the executive departments of the United States
to provide for itself and its subordinate offices, the necessary envelopes ;
and,in addition to the endorsement designating the department in which
they are to be used, the penalty tor the unlawful use of these envelopes
shall be stated thereon.

Approved March 3, 1877.

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 288.)

[Extended to the Smithsonian Institution by act of March 3, 1879, as

follows:]
181
182 ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF UO.NGRESS.

Cuap. 180. An act making appropriations for the service of the Post-Office Depart-
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted, dc., . . . the provisions of said fifth and sixth
sections are hereby likewise extended and made applicable to all official
mail matter sent from the Smithsonian Institution.

Approved March 3, 1879.

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 458.)

JOINT RESOLUTION [No. 22] providing for the distribution and sale of the new editiop
of the Revised Statutes of the United States.

Resolved, &c., That the . . . copies of the new edition of the first
volume of the Revised Statutes of the United States . . . be dis-
posed of by the Secretary of State as follows: . . . tothe Smith.
sonian Institution, two copies.

Approved May 22, 1878.

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol 1, page 387.)

Cuap. 182. An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the govern-
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, and for other purposes.

Sect. 1, Par. 12. That all the archives, records, and materials relating
to the Indians of North America, collected by the Geographical and Geo-
logical Survey of the Rocky Mountain region, shall be turned over to the
Smithsonian Institution, that the work may be completed and prepared
for publication under its direction: Provided, That it shall meet the ap-
proval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Approved March 3, 1879.

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 461.,

JornT RESOLUTION [No. 11] concerning an international fishery exhibition to be held
in Berlin, Germany, in Apriy, eighteen hundred and eighty.

Whereas all civilized nations take part in the International Fisher>
Exhibition to be held in the city of Berlin, Germany, in April, eighteen
hundred and eighty, it is deemed both right and expedient that the
prominent and effective action of the United States in the line of the
artificial propagation of fish and the stocking of depleted fishing waters
should be conspicuously and well exhibited on the occasion: Therefore,

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That to enable the United States Com-
missioner of Fish and Fisheries to exhibit in Berlin, in April, eighteen

hundred and eighty, a fair and full collection of the different specimens —

of American food fishes, casts thereof, models of, and implements, and
so forth, used in the prosecution of American fisheries, the sum of twenty
thousand dollars is hereby appropriated out of any moneys not other-
wise appropriated in the Treasury of the United States, or so much

. =a
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 183

thereof as may be necessary for the purpose, to be immediately availa-
ble on the passage of this resolution, to be expended under the direction
of the Secretary of State.

Sec. 2. That the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries
be, and is hereby, authorized to represent the United States, either in
person or by a deputy to be appointed by the President of the United
States; and that, at his discretion, he may use any portion of the col-
lections at present forming part of the National Museum in making up
the proposed exhibition by the United States.

Sec. 3. That the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries
be, and is hereby, instructed to present to Congress, through the De-
partment of State, a report upon the Berlin exhibition, showing the
recent progress and present condition of the fisheries and of fish-eulture
in foreign countries.

Approved February 16, 1880.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 301).

Cuap. 73. An act making appropriations for the naval service for the fiscal year end-
ing June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-one, and for other purposes.
Naval Observatory.—For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for
freight on Observatory publications for eighteen hundred and eighty, to
be shipped in eighteen hundred and eighty, two hundred and thirty-six
dollars and twenty-five cents.
Approved May 3, 1880.
(Statutes, vol. 21, page 84.)

For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for freight on Observa-
tory publications for eighteen hundred and eighty-one, to be shipped to
foreign countries in eighteen hundred and eighty-one, two hundred and
thirty-six dollars and twenty-five cents.

Approved May 3, 1880.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 84.)

Cuap. 42. An act making an appropriation for the flooring of the National Museum.

Be it enacted, &c., That the sum of twenty-six thousand dollars, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, be, and the same hereby is, appro-
priated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
to place a flooring of marble and encaustic tiles in the large halls of the
National Museum building, to be expended according to plans and under
the direction of the building commission of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution under whose supervision the museum has been
constructed.

Approved February 9, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 324.)
184 ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

- JOINT RESOLUTION [No. 12] authorizing the Public Printer to print reports of the
United States Fish Commissioner upon new discoveries in regard to fish culture.

Resolved, &c., That the Public Printer be, and he hereby is, instructed
to print and stereotype, from time to time, the regular number of nine-
teen hundred copies of any matter furnished him by the United States
Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries relative to new observations, discov
eries, and applications connected with fish culture and the fisheries, to
be capable of being distributed in parts, and the whole to form an annual
volume or bulletin not exceeding five hundred pages. The edition of
‘said annual work shall consist of five thousand copies, of which two
thousand five hundred shall be for the use of the House of Representa-
‘tives, one thousand for the use of the Senate, and one thousand five
-hundred for the use of the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries.

Approved February 14, 1881.

(Revised Statutes, supplement, vol. 1, page 617.)

Cuar. 65. An act to provide for remitting the duties on the object of art awarded
by the Berlin International Fishery Commission to Professor Spencer F. Baird.
Be it enacted, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby

is, directed to remit the customs duties chargeable upon the object of

art given by His Majesty the German Emperor and King of Prussia to
the Berlin International Fishery Exhibition, and by it awarded as the
first grand prize of honor to Professor Spencer F. Baird, at the exhibition
held in the city of Berlin, Prussia, in the month of June, eighteen hun-
dred and eighty.

Approved February 21, 18$1.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 608.)

Cua, 73. An act making appropriations for the naval service for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1881, and for other purposes.

Nawal Observatory.—For payment to the Smithsonian Institution for
freight on Observatory publications to be shipped to foreign countries
during the fiscal year eighteen hundred and eighty-two, three hundred
and thirty-six dollars and twenty-five cents.

Approved February 23, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 333.)

Cap. 132. Anact making appropriations to supply deficiencies in the appropriations
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, and for prior years, and for those certified
as due by the accounting officers of the Treasury in accordance with section four
of the act of June 14, 1878, and heretofore paid from permanent appropriations,
-and for other purposes.

For additional amount required for running the relieving sewer of
the National Museum building into the North B street sewer instead
of into the Seventh street sewer, nine hundred dollars.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 418.)
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 185

(Same act.)

For expense of transfer to and arrangement in the new National
Museum building of the collections of the United States surveying and
exploring expeditions, and of the specimens presented to the United
States at the international exhibition of eighteen hundred and seventy-
six, ten thousand dollars, being for the service of the current fiscal year.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 418.)

Cuap. 133. An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the govern-
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882, and for other purposes.

For the expense of exchanging literary and scientific productions
with all nations by the Smithsonian Institution, three thousand dollars.

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution—For preservation
and care of the collections of the surveying and exploring expeditions
of the government, fifty-five thousand dollars.

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, Armory building.—
For expense of watching, care, and storage of duplicate government
collections, and of property of the United States Fish Commission, two
thousand five hundred dollars.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol 21, page 452.)

(Same act.)

North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution.—For the purpose
of continuing ethnological researches among the North American In-
dians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, twenty-five thousand dollars; five thousand dollars of which
shall be expended in continuing archeological investigations relating to
mound-builders and prehistoric mounds, and be available immediately.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 443.)

(Same act.)

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum.—For cases, furniture, and

fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of geology, min-
-eralogy, natural history, ethnology, and technology, belonging to the
United States, sixty thousand dollars.
Heating and lighting National Museum.—For expense of heating, light-
ing, telephonic and electrical service for the new museum building, six
thousand dollars.
Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 449.)
186 ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

(Same act.)

Buildings and Grounds in and around Washington and the Executive
Mansion.—For asphaltum footwalks through Smithsonian grounds from
Seventh to Twelfth streets, one thousand five hundred dollars.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 444.)

(Same act.)

Miscellaneous objects under War Department.—For transportation of
reports and maps to foreign countries through the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, five hundred dollars.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 447.)

JOINT RESOLUTION [No. 26] authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish
States, for the use of agricultural colleges, one set of standard weights and meas-
ures, and for other purposes.

Resolved, &c., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby,
directed to cause a complete set of all the weights and measures adopted
as standards to be delivered to the governor of each State in the Union,
for the use of agricultural colleges in the States, respectively, which
have received a grant of lands from the United States, and also one set
of the same for the use of the Smithsonian Institution: Provided, That
the cost of each set shall not exceed two hundred dollars, and a sum
sufficient to carry out the provisions of this resolution is hereby appro- —
priated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.

Approved March 3, 1881.

(Statutes, vol. 21, page 521.)
GENERAL APPENDIX

LO) EE

SMITHSONTAN REPORT FOR 1881.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIX is to furnish summaries of
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed-
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers
not published in the “ Smithsonian Contributions” or in the “ Miscella-
neous Collections” as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the
numerous correspondents of the Institution.

188
RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1881.

INTRODUCTION.

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date in its history to enrich
the annual report required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus-
trating the more remarkable and important developments in physical
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of
the operations of the Institution, this purpose had not been carried out
on any very systematic plan. Believing however that an annual report
or summary of the recent advances made in the leading departments
of scientific inquiry would supply a want very generally felt, and would
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl-
edge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of 1880, by competent
collaborators, a series of abstracts showing concisely the prominent
features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, physics,
chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zodlogy, and anthropology.

The subjects of terrestrial physics and meteorology (which should prop-
erly have succeeded the survey of geology) were unfortunately omitted, in
consequence of the inability of the writer selected for these departments
to obtain sufficient leisure from other pressing duties to prepare a suit-
able abstract in time. This omission has been partially supplied in the
record for the present year by including a meteorological retrospect for
the years 1879 and 1880.

The subjects of geology and mineralogy, which were referred to Mr.
George W. Hawes, of the National Museum (who had acceptably pre-
pared this summary for the record of 1880), have been delayed this year
by the prolonged and much-regretted illness of Mr. Hawes; and it has
been found impossible to obtain in time a substitute in this department.

With every effort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor-
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to
bring up such deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports.

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced
by an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such
branches as geography, microscopy, &e., but also of the more practical
topics of agricultural and horticultural economy, engineering, and tech-

189
190 RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1881.

nology in general; but the space required for such larger digest seems
scarcely available in the present channel. The scientific résumé, which
in 1880 occupied 260 pages, has this year extended to 330 pages. An
efficient condensation of this matter seems scarcely practicable.

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual pro-
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of the
specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied ; and very many
items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. While
the student in a special field of knowledge may occasionally receive hints
that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to consult for

ie
%

i

i

4

y
OM
;

7
’
i

fuller information the original journals and special periodicals from —

which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled.

The contemplated plan of devoting some 250 pages of the annual
report to such a compilation is not designed to preclude the introduc-
tion into the ‘General Appendix,” as heretofore, of special monographs
or discussions that may prove interesting to the scientific student.

SPENCER F. BAIRD.
ASTRONOMY.

By Pror. EDWARD 8S. HOLDEN,
Director of the Washburn Observatory, Wisconsin.

INTRODUCTION.

The record of astronomical progress for 1881 must necessarily be a
very condensed summary. It is to be remembered that this review is
not primarily intended for astronomers, but is specialy addressed to
the correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. For bibliographic
information the reader is referred to DARBOUX et HOUEL’S Bulletin
des Sciences Mathématiques et Astronomiques (monthly, Paris), to Nature
(weekly, London), to Science (weekly, New York), to Copernicus,
(monthly, Dublin), to the Observatory, (monthly, London), and to other
standard journals. Free use has been made of reviews by writers in
these and other periodicals.

NEBULA AND CLUSTERS.

Photographs of nebule.—M. J. Janssen calls attention to the effect of
short and long exposures upon the negatives which are obtained. Pho-
tographs of the same nebula will not agree unless the same conditions
of exposure are narrowly observed. In proof of this the photographs
of the solar corona taken at Siam in the eclipse of 1875 are referred to:
The nebulosity, so to speak, of the corona gave different impressions
upon sensitive plates which were exposed during times expressed by
the numbers 1, 2, 4, 8; and it must be inferred that the changes in the
height of the corona are to be attributed to the times of exposure, in-
stead of to actual variations in the extent of the phenomena. M. Jans-
sen proposes to take the photograph of the image of a star, or nebula,
a little out of focus. In this case the photograph is a little circle of
sensibly uniform opacity, and one can compare the opacity of the pho.
tographs of different stars, and connect the degrees of opacity with the
photometric power.—Comptes Rendus.

_ The Publications of the Washburn Observatory No. 1 contain a list
of 23 new nebule, mostly faint.

Cluster measurements.—H. C. Russell, director of the observatory of
Sydney, has made a micrometric examination of the cluster h. 3276=
G. C. 2144, which gives the positions (and magnitudes) of 144 stars.
One of these is an interesting red star. The paper is accompanied by a
map of the cluster made by Mr. Russell, himself, by a process whick he

describes as extremely easy for any one to execute. ei
192 ASTRONOMY.
FIXED STARS.

Catalogue of stars.—‘Catalogue of 12,441 stars for the epoch 1880,
from observations made at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
during the years 1871 to 1879. Edward James Stone, M. A., F. R.S.,
etc. (London, 1881, XX XIT, and 565, 4to).” This catalogue, published
by the Admiralty, is founded on observations made at the Cape Obser-
vatory between January, 1871, and April, 1879. The observatory dur-
ing the whole period was steadily directed to the object in view, the
formation of a catalogue of well-distributed stellar zero-points for those
portions of the heavens which are beyond the reach of northern obser-
vatories. But a considerable number of stars, north of 25° Decl., were
also observed at the Cape, and the results have been included in the

present catalogue as a check upon the existence of any systematic ©

errors in the work. Lacaille’s well-distributed 9,766 stars were adapted
as the basis of the working list, but as some stars of the sixth and
many of the seventh magnitude, in Brisbane’s Catalogue of 7,385 stars,
had not been observed by Lacaille, the greater part of these were also
included in the working list. A large stereographic projection of the
southern hemisphere was also prepared, on which were projected the
places of all the stars previously observed, and whenever lacune ap-
peared within the limits of N. P. D. 115° to 180°, efforts were made to
fill them up by observing stars of rather a lower magnitude than the
seventh of Lacaille’s scale. A reduced copy of this projection accom-
panies the catalogue. Generally each star was observed three times.
The right ascensions of the stars observed for the determination of
the errors of the Transit-clock have been taken from the Greenwich
Standard Lists for the different years. The Right Ascensions of Polar
Stars were taken from Mr. Stone’s paper on ‘The mean places of eight
close Southern Polar Stars, 1860 to 1900.” The refractions used are
those of the Tabule Regiomontanz diminished in the proportion of
0.9988: 1, but the use of Bessel’s tables unaltered would not change the
results of the Catalogue by 0.2. As a proof of the satisfactory charac-
ter of the adopted refractions, a comparison is given between the results
of the Catalogue and the places of the Nautical Almanac for 1880. As
might be expected from the use of the same fundamental system, there
is a close agreement between the Greenwich and Cape Right Ascensions,

but the perfectly independent determinations of N. P. D. are also in very —
good accordance. Arranging the corrections required by the Nautcial ,

Almanac N. P. D.’s in groups of 6 hours of R. A. and applying the gen-
eral mean correction—0.81 to them all, the following corrections re-
main:

Ob — 62 6b — 12 125 — 182 18h — 24"

— 0.24 — 0.11 + 0.39 +0/.06

The changes in these corrections are systematic, and it appears that

the complete reversal of the seasons at the northern and southern observ-
atories is not quite accurately allowed for in the refraction tables. In
ASTRONOMY. 193

notes at the end of the catalogue are given the larger proper motions
resulting from a comparison of the Catalogue for 1880 with the ‘ Cape
Catalogue for 1840,” and Taylor’s “‘ Subsidiary Catalogue for 1850.” In
the catalogue the mean time of observation is given for all the stars,
but in forming the mean positions the proper motion has only been
applied in the comparatively few cases where the proper motion is
given in the body of the catalogue. The latter contains, in separate
columns, references to Piazzi, Brisbane, Fallows, Johnson, Henderson,
Taylor, Cape 1840, Cape 1860, and Melbourne 1870, and in foot-notes
other references, as also corrections to previous catalogues, and remarks

-about duplicity, false positions, etc. Lacaille’s numbers are given in the

second column next to the current number of the catalogue. The con-
stellations occupy the third column; Lacaille’s system of nomenclature
is used with the modifications proposed by Sir J. Herschel. The im-
portance of this great work can hardly be overestimated. Valuable as
the two previously published Cape Catalogues and Melbourne Catalogue
for 1870 are, they cannot compare with it either as regards extent or
completeness, and when it is remembered how uncertain the foundation
is on which Lacaille’s zones rest, and how poor and unreliable the Bris-
bane Catalogue is, it will be conceded by everybody that Mr. Stone’s
Catalogue will be an inestimable treasure for future generations, the
value of which will continue to increase. As remarked by its author,
the catalogue may also render good assistance in investigations on
special stars occurring in Lacaille’s and Brisbane’s Catalogues, or even
in completely new re-reductions of the observations on which these cata-
logues are founded.

“Catalogue of 1098 Standard Clock and Zodiacal Stars, prepared
under the direction of Simon Newcomb” (papers prepared for the use of
the American Ephemeris, No. 4, 162 pp., 4to). This catalogue was pre-
pared for the purpose of obtaining standard positions of reference stars for
use in the lunar and planetary theories, especially in the reduction of the
older occultations. It contains all the standard stars of the Ephemeris
(except most of those added for field work), and allstars to the sixth mag-
nitude inclusive, which can be occulted by the moon, together with stars
below the sixth magnitude observed by Bradley. The author was able to
use Auwers’ reduction of Bradley. The declinations of the catalogue are
reduced to Mr. Boss’ system, which was only modified so far as to sub-
stitute Auwers’ reduction of Bradley for that of Bessel. In the ease of
stars within 80° of the pole, the right ascensions were not independently
investigated, but were taken from Dr. Gould’s Catalogue (second edition),
while the declinations. are those of Mr. Boss. The catalogue gives, in
the case of the stars observed by Bradley, the positions and other data
for the two epochs 1755 and 1850, while in the case of fundamental time-
stars the positions are also given for 1,900. Stars between 10° and 30°
from the pole have data-given for the epochs 1755, 1800, 1850, and 1900,
and stars still nearer the pole also for 1825 and 1875. The precessions

S. Mis. 109 ——13
194 ASTRONOMY.

-and secular variations for each epoch are independently computed.
Formule for finding the place of a star for any epoch between 1750 and —
1900 from the data in the catalogue by Taylor’s theorem add to the gen-
eral usefulness of Professor Newcomb’s work, which will no doubt be
extensively employed by astronomers who have to reduce lunar or plan-
etary observations made during the last and the present century.

Dr. Gould has printed his second volume (Cordoba observations of
1872), except the introduction. It contains the places of 400 stars for
the catalogue, and also 128 zones of the zone observations, comprising
over 13,000 stars. All the observations made at Cordoba are now fully
reduced and they make a grand showing:

121, 000 observations for the catalogue of 35,000 stars.
14, 000 observations of fundamental stars.
105, 000 observations for the zones.

240,000 observations in all.

Of these about half (including all the zones) were made by Dr. Gould
personally. The total number of stars will be somewhere in the neigh-
borhood of 80,000 in the zones, and 30,000 to 35,000 stars in the cata-
logue.

The work is all ready for the printer up to the end of 1875, but much
remains to be done to put it in final shape from 1875 to 1880. The print-
ing is an extremely slow process in Buenos Ayres, and the meteorolog-
ical volumes (2 of which have appeared) are sources of delay.

Among recent catalogues of stars may be cited that published by
Professor Respighi in vol. VIII of the Atti della R. Accademia dei Lincet.
Jt contains the mean declinations for 1875 of 1,463 stars between the
parallels of 20° and 64° north, deduced from observations with the me-
ridian circle of the Royal Observatory of-Campidoglio in the years 1875,
1876, and 1877.

The separate publication of the Berlin list of 539 stars will cease
with 1881, and a selection from this list will appear in the Berliner
Jahrbuch.

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
JaANTVUUCH. ‘ mre 5 i

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
JaANTVUUCH. ‘ mre 5 i

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
JaANTVUUCH. ‘ mre 5 i

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
JaANTVUUCH. ‘ mre 5 i

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Observatory. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
JaANTVUUCH. ‘ mre 5 i

A catalogue of 195 stars is printed in No.1 of the Publications of the
Washburn Ohservatorv. The observations were made at Ann Arbor
