a

-

ieueiiadinentt oti

_——

er 3 * 3. . ‘

-~ =| 4 Fs eee et eee - - By foe) :
e bo dy, still the same dilierentiation of iorm and -C1aliZation O:

4

tion 1s observable as we pass from the embryonic to the mature
lition, or from the lowest to the highest animals. [ eae cive
many other examples taken from the organic kingdon will give
hutionalaiier okdttinle Anashntl daikon fom awiti?l Reeher nea
out one owner examMpie, and that taken ITomM a stili Lie er kingds ym.

n

{ it

Human society 1s also an organized body, the ultimate anatomical
ments of which are individuals. Now, in the earlie ti

PC ii OCLs i are iit vicuais, SNOW, in tne earliest condi ions of

| Pa = ee ee (a a * 5 wa |) ian {75 Do ry cs

human society we find these elements, so far as their social functions

ere concerned, identical. Hach man performs all the social functions

A

apertaining to man. He is his own tailor, shoemaker, at eat hae
1e1 tific man, &c. But in propor tion as society advances in the same
roportion does specialization of social functior 1s advance, until, if 5 we
could conceive of a society perfectly organized on a purely material
basis, 7. e. according to the French rie tdi philos sophy, then we

ocial function of each individual would be reduced to the narrowe
ssible hmits. This is only impossible or undesirable on account of

man’s moral and spiritual nature. Still it is no less evident that, 1
» far as human society is a material organization, specialization of

unction, differentiation is the law of development

Now, it will be recollected that in the eeolog ical history of animals
and plants we have everywhere found the same differentiation of form
and penne. of function. As in the history of the animal ek
one cell form in the embryo was the representative of many widely

1a WU? . > awe he Po is) Be = 1 oe
eparated cell forms in the mature animal; so also in the geolog vical

sin of t ae a ter and more complex organism, the animal and
egetable kingdom, one form in the early } eriods stood as the repre-
intlte of many widely separated forms in its present mature con-

+

dition. Am I not justified, ‘then, in saying that the great law which

has governed the introduction of successive animal a1 if vegetable spe-

cies is that of gradual development of the animal and vegetable king-
dom as an organic u jae ?

ire seems to me that all the dispute and misunderstanding on this

ect have been the rest ene )f too narrowa V iew, have arisen from fixing

if lind upon genera and species instead of upon the larger divisions

of classes and orders, upon the individual iéhiehied instead of the

organic whole. Development does not necessarily involve the idea of

—

progression in all the 1 ndividual elements. In the differentiation of
the cells of the living body, of the individuals of an advancing com-
munity, or of the forms of an advancing fauna, the whole organism
progresses, but as a necessary result of differentiation, while the high-
est individuals are successively higher and higher, the lowest, consid-

d

ered in themselves, and not as parts of an organized whole nay
become lower. Certainly the difference between the high and the low
becomes constant] J

y greater. It should not ls, rise us, then, tha
31

t
some of the lowest iorms of animal life have been among the latest

introduced. It is precisely what, according to a true appreciation of

the law of develo pment, we should be naturally led to expect.

Mr. Hugh Miller, the eminent Scotch sold ist, in his admirable
¥ ork, cr, footprints of the Cre ator,’ I
this subject, has been led, if not into error, at least into a statement
of views which has misled many. In his zeal against the Lamarck-

by taking too limited a view of

167
ian th poet and more particularly against the author of the ‘‘ Ves-
tiges of Cr sation,’” he has attempted to show that, in cert tain families,
at least, the law has been that of degradation, instead of progression.
He has la abored to prove that the earliest fishes have been the highest,
instead of the lowest fishes, and that the earliest reptiles have been
higher in the scale than the present reptiles. This idea has been
seized upon by some in this country, and it has been attempted, by
connecting it with the fall and degradation of man, to show that the
universal law of history P both geological and human, is degradation.
The disciples of this melancholy philosophy believe that divine power
successively introduced higher and higher pi eee but each class, left
to its own laws, continued to degrade itself. The Deity repeatedly
attempted progression, by the 1 miraculous introduction of successively

higher classes, but some malign influence as constantly interposed
and, to some extent, frustrated these attempts.

Now, it is evident that these theorizers have never thoroughly
grasped the fundamental idea of development. They mistake speciali-
zation for degradation. Upon this theory all our boasted modern
civilization, so far as it is the result of i dean of labor, specialization
of social functions, and mutual dependence of parts, is « degra lation.

U “ih m what ground are the Ganoids and Placoids considered the
highest fishes? Only on the ground that they combine with their
fish characters others which ally them with the higher classes, , par-
icularly with reptiles. In other words, they fall into the very error
of the Lamarckians themselves, viz: that of supposing that the ani-
mal kingdom is to be represented by a linear series, and that, there-
fore, the highest fishes approach the lowest reptiles, and the hichest
reptiles the next higher class, &c. But the very reverse of this is the
fact. The animal kingdom should be represented by an infinitely
branching tree, rather than by an ascending right line; for we find,
in every case, classes approach each other in t

the lowest members of
each, and diverge as they ascend. Thus, itis the lowest, and not the
highest plants, which a pproach the animalkingdom. As we ascend,
they become more and more widely separated, until, in the highest
representatives of each, the separation reaches its higl hest point. So
also each branch of these kingdoms diverges from its fellow branches.
It is, therefore, in its lowest, not its highest, members that we should
naturally expect, according to the law of differentiation, the class of
fishes to approach the class of reptiles. In some sense, indeed, Pla-
coids and Ganoids may be considered higher than typical fishes.

Their brain and nervous system is more highly organized, deg re-
production is more complex, their young are better cared for. But
it will be recollected that they are both connecting and embryonic
types. Now, it is their connecting characters whi ch seem to elevate
them, for their true fish characters are all eml bryonic. As vertebrates
they may possibly be considered higher than other fishes, but as
fishes they must be considered low. Anatomists may place them
high but morphologists will always place them low. If the several
classes of the animal kingdom, diverging in various directions, be,
as it were, projected upon a vertical plane, the Placoids and Ganoids
may possibly occupy a higher position than the typical fishes; but,

. > ; i Mie eee
ae a ee
e a Moss ’
. ey Oe
\ _ da oat
e ie ate ;

D 3

ee a
ie ® “ae
¥ a am ‘
. :  -
“oes 9 — »
, '

shit
"e ne si

@ : Bi, ,

a _ > " :

> , 4 by eg a i" 4 a :

D ee hs one ‘
q oe ae om! & . > wae:
is 4 ay ee ha ; Ly * A ~
A Bs ag en ts —
| d q h j
; e ie Bea eer, ‘
< Me : -
2. “

= 64 ~ Cae iar
LOC Tannin
See
*

e
a — a
x “ a sl
oe ST he
Ss = ~ w
= Sees

: =

“=

a Yeneee\
EM SD Nea oe
P v \

x Wt
¥ aj
Pat

es :

. z ee :
fy

Ses
“Ts

7 Sof. » So
Cee sae

er. a. ‘
WIN SAM nee y
SR we ee ee oe OP ae

at - 2

maa ¢ . . > z ant.

Pd wine are ye ee te “ , .

‘ 7 . ¢ C : - ?

a Ee each halt ok ul ae. ye Vow ee

A IS LEER SE, Os He hoe Ta eae ley ae
: Soe ‘ ec Le
De ee en Leen CAR ee re

z Sa
a RAE , %
oP: ga ee

- Vert a Die en ae panenty TS a ee ae a i OTS

F
i Tir,
he

4 ew.
wih

35TH CONGRESS, SENATE. Mis. Doc.
1st Session. No. 272.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1857.

WASHINGTON:
WILLIAM A. HARRIS, PRINTER,
1858.
In SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
June 3, 1858.

Resolved, That ten thousand additional copies of the Report of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1857 be printed ; five thousand for the use of the
Senate, and five thousand for the use of the Smithsonian Institution : Provided, That the
aggregate number of pages contained in said report shall not exceed four hundred and
forty pages, without wood cuts or plates, except those furnished by the Institution : And
provided further, That the entire amount of copy necessary to complete said Report be placed
in the hands of the Superintendent of the Public Printing before the commencement of
printing any portion of said Report.

Attest :
ASBURY DICKINS, Secretary.

LETTER

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

COMMUNICATING

The Annual Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the
Sirithsonian Institution for the year 1857.

May 27, 1858.—Read.

JUNE 12, 1858.—Ordered to be printed ; and that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 5,000
of which for the use of the Senate, and 5,000 for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, May 26, 1858.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Senate of the United States the Annual Report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1857.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon, Joun C. BREcKINRIDGE,
President of the Senate.
ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY
1, 1858, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO MAY 19, 1858.

To the Senate and House of Representatives :

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1857.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1857.

3. Report of the Building Committee.

4, Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to May 19, 1858.

5. Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, Ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE,
JAMES A. PEARCE,

4 Executive Committee.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, jf

1

J

RICHARD RUSH,
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH,
JOSEPH HENRY,

Building Committee.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States.
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States.
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives.
L. J. GARTRELL, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives.
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York.

RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Pennsylvania.

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina.

CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, President of the United States.
JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
LEWIS CASS, Secretary of State.

HOWELL COBB, Secretary of the Treasury.

JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War.

ISAAC TOUCEY, Secretary of the Navy.

AARON V. BROWN, Postmaster General.

J. S. BLACK, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
JOSEPH HOLT, Commissioner of Patents,

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

2

ROBERT HARE, of Pennsylvania.
WASHINGTON IRVING, of New York. ,
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut.
PARKER CLEAVELAND, of Maine.

A. B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi.

JACOB THOMPSON, Secretary of the Interior
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a
Plan of Organization.

1, Writ oF Smrruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘ to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate h's name.

4. The « jects of the Institution are, Ist, to increase, and 2d, to
diffuse knowiedge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi-
tion of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus
increased, among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi-
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION,

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be
added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected.
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fitted by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements
of the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a
library, a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a hberal
scale to contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To Increase Knowieper. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. |

To Dirruse Know.eper. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge ; and

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
I.—By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
me quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Know-
edge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected.

4, Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

the branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for pub-
lice tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a
favorable decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the
colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre-
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from
new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il.—By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of
research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.
 (1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological,
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light;
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of
scientific facts, accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif-
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country. .

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I.— By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in
all branches of knowledge not strictly professional,

_ 1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4, The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri-
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in
the reports:

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.
6, Statistics and political economy.
7. Mental and moral philosophy.
8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges previous to their publication.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of

the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another.

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary
in preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work
which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary
to purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-

pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

*The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the
WIIG SAIS UMLOST IS Wel va \eieslelete/e) enloid ajeterietala/aivelelslclcics atelsisieciciate.c ccc clades ses $915,169 00

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the
Inti LNA) jax potetetnloie/sin\alefele/s elaicla/o) esiavelnialsels) o/s) eiesisiola sieip\o\eiauieie tielce.cte een eierc 242,129 00
DOO OC OO DIOUD DOLD CULCUCUEDDSTOCODOE Eon 30,910 14
12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &ec.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be-
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except
one, to act as librarian.

14, The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents,
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import-
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY FOR 1857.

To the Board of Regents:

GENTLEMEN: It again becomes my duty to present to you the
history of the operations of another year of the Institution which
the government of the United States has entrusted to your care. In
an establishment of this kind, of which the policy has been settled
and is strictly adhered to, there must of necessity be much sameness in
the general form and character of the successive reports ; but since
the field of science is boundless, and new portions of it are continually
presented for investigation, there will always be found in the details,
facts of sufficient interest to relieve the routine of the statements
relative to the condition of the funds and the scrutiny of the receipts
and expenditures.

It might at first sight appear surprising that so constant a supply
of materials for the Smithsonian Contributions and so many objecis of
interest, demanding the assistance of the Smithsonian fund, should
be presented, but it will be evident, on reflection, that this results
from the influence of the Institution itself in increasing the number
of laborers in the field of science, as well as in accumulating the
materials on which they are to be engaged. The tendency is con-
stantly to expand the operations, and much caution and self-control
are necessary to repress the desire to be more liberal in the assistance
rendered to worthy objects, than the income will permit. Indeed, a
charge is frequently made of illiberality for what is the result of re-
stricted means. It must be evident that nothing is more important to
the permanency and proper conduct of the Institution than the cautious
and judicious management of its funds. Any embarrassment in this
quarter would involve a loss of confidence in the directors, which would
be fatal to the usefulness and efficiency of the establishment.

I have from the first expressed the regret that the original law of
Congress directed the expenditure of so large a portion of the income
on objects of alocal character, and this feeling has,been increased by
the experience which time has afforded in regard to the good which
could be effected by a more critical observance of the terms of the
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

bequest, as well as by the increasing expense of sustaining a large
building, a library, and museum. It is to be hoped, however, that
at least a partial relief will hereafter be afforded by an annual appro-
priation, which it is reasonable to expect government will make for
the keeping and exhibition of the collections of the various exploring
expeditions which have been entrusted to the care of the Regents.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for the
construction and erection of cases to receive the collections of the
United States Exploring Expedition and others in Washington, and
also for the transfer and arrangement of the specimens. This appro-
priation was granted in accordance with the recommendation of the
late Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Patents, in
order that the large room in the Patent Office occupied by the museum
might be used for the more legitimate purposes of that establishment.
We presume that the other part of the recommendation will also be
carried out, namely, that the annual appropriation be continued which
has heretofore been made for the care of this portion of the govern-
ment property. While, on the one hand, no appropriation should be
made which would serve to lessen the distinctive character of Smith-
son’s bequest, on the other it is evident that the government should
not impose any burdens upon the Institution which would impair its
usefulness or divert its funds from their legitimate purpose.

It was stated in the last report that the extra fund of the Insti-
tution, which had been saved from the accrued interest, was invested
in State Stocks. This investment was made because the fund was at
the time drawing no interest, and because, until action could be pro-
cured by Congress in relation to receiving said fund into the United
States Treasury, it was deemed the safest disposition of the money.
Though a temporary depreciation of these stocks took place during
the last year, there is no reason to regret the investment. Their
marketable value is at present about the same as it was at the time
they were purchased.

By reference to the report of the Executive Committee it will be
seen that the expenditures during the year, though less than the
amount of receipts, have somewhat exceeded the estimates. This has
been occasioned, first, by unexpected repairs which were found neces
sary to the building, in consequence of an unprecedented hail storm,
which destroyed several thousand panes of glass and did considerable
injury to the roof and other parts of the edifice; secondly, by an
expansion of the system of foreign exchanges, rendered necessary by
the large amount of material entrusted to the Institution by the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

different agricultural and other societies of the country ; and thirdly,
the necessity we were under, on account of the financial pressure, of
paying bills for publications which will appear during the present
and the next year. The funds of the Institution are, however, still
in a prosperous condition, but great care is required to prevent the
accumulation of small expenses, which, individually, by reason of
their insignificance, are allowed to occur, but which in the aggregate,
at the end of the year, are found to have swelled into amounts of
considerable magnitude,

Publications.—Thé ninth annual quarto volume of Contributions to
Knowledge was completed and distributed during the first half of the
year. It is equal in size and importance to the preceding volumes,
and contains the following memoirs :

1. On the relative intensity of the heat and light of the sun upon
different latitudes of the earth. By L. W. Meech.

2. Illustrations of surface geology, by Edward Hitchcock, LL.D.,
of Amherst College.

Part 1. On surface geology, especially that of the Connecticut
valley, in New England.

Part 2, On the erosions of the earth’s surface, especially by
rivers.

Part 3. Traces of ancient glaciers in Massachusetts and Ver-
mont.

3. Observations on Mexican history and archxology, with a special
notice of Zapotec remains, as delineated in Mr. J. G. Sawkins’ draw-
ings of Mitla, &c. By Brantz Mayer.

4, Researches on the Ammonia Cobalt bases. By Professor Wol-
cott Gibbs and Professor F. A. Genth.

5. New tables for determining the values of the co-efficients in the
perturbative functions of planetary motion, which depend upon the
ratio of the mean distances. By J. D. Runkle.

6. Asteroid supplement to new tables for determining the values of

b and its derivatives. By J. D. Runkle. -

It was stated in the last report that Mr. L. W. Meech proposed to
continue his interesting investigations relative to the heat and light
of the sun, provided the Smithsonian Institution would pay the ex-
pense of the arithmetical computations. Though most of his time is
necessarily occupied in other duties, he would cheerfully devote his
leisure hours to the investigation with a view of extending the bounds
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of knowledge. During the past year an appropriation has been made
of one hundred dollars for the purpose here mentioned, and we are
assured, from what Mr. Meech has already accomplished, that this
sum will be instrumental in producing valuable results. He proposes
to determine, from several elementary formulas, the laws of terres-
trial temperature for different latitudes. The first formula has been
pretty thoroughly applied, and the annual temperature computed by
it compared with the result of actual observation. The diurnal
temperatures have also been deduced and seem to agree with actual
observation within the presumed errors of the latter. The temper-
ature, however, of the surrounding medium, defived from the annual
temperature, differs widely from the results obtained by the diurnal
temperatures. The author is inclined to attribute this difference to a
defect in the law of radiation as generally received, which, deduced
from experiments in the laboratory, he thinks inapplicable to the
phenomena of terrestrial temperature. The second formula takes into
account another cause of the variation of temperature, namely, the
cooling due to the contact of the air; and the third formula includes
also the effect of the absorption of solar heat in its passage through
the atmosphere. The investigation will include the consideration of—
Ist, terrestrial radiation ; 2d, contact of air; 3d, the sun’s intensity ;
4th, atmospheric absor ation : 5th, the difference in radiating power of
luminous heat by day and non-luminous heat by night. Among
other inferences to be deduced is the relative heating or radiating
powers of sea and continent, when the land is covered with foliage
and vegetation, and when it is covered with ice and snow. These
researches are intimately connected with the extended series of obser-
vations on the climate of the United States, now carried on at the
expense and under the direction of the Institution.

The paper of Professor Gibbs and Dr. Genth, which forms a part of
the 9th volume, has been republished in the American Journal of
Science and in the London Chemical Gazette, due credit being given
to the Smithsonian Contributions, from which it was copied. We
regret to be informed by the authors of this interesting paper that
the sum appropriated by the Institution for assisting in defraying the
expense of the materials and apparatus employed in their researches
was scarcely sufficient to compensate for more than one-fourth of their
outlay. Limited means, and not a want of proper appreciation of the
labors of these gentlemen, prevented their entire reimbursement for
the pecuniary loss in the prosecution of their valuable researches.
They intend, notwithstanding this, to continue their investigations,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

and to devote as much time to them as their other engagements and
the means at their disposal will allow. Since this memoir has met
the approval of the scientific world, it will be proper to make as
liberal an appropriation as the demands on the limited income of the
Institution will permit for the continuance of researches in the same
line. The publication of the paper was of comparatively little
expense, since it required no costly illustrations, and this may be an
additional reason for granting a larger appropriation for further in-
vestigations in the same line.

The ninth volume also contains the supplement to the tables by J.
D. Runkle, mentioned in the last report. The tables in this supple-
ment are intended to facilitate calculations with reference to the
asteroids. The search for these bodies has been prosecuted with so
much vigor of late that their list now extends to more than fifty, and
the mechanical labor required to calculate their places is so great that
this can scarcely be expected to be accomplished, except by the use of
general tables. The work of Gauss on the theory of the motion of
the heavenly bodies leaves little to be desired, so far as the deter--
mination of their orbits is concerned; but this is by no means the
case with regard to their perturbations by the larger planets. The
tables therefore will afford an important means of facilitating the ad_
vance of our knowledge, particularly of this class of the members of
our solar system.

The third part of the Nereis Boreali-Americana, by Dr. William H.
Harvey, has been completed and will be included in the tenth volume
of the Contributions. Two hundred extra copies of the text of the
preceding parts having been struck off before the distribution of the
types, and the drawings on the lithographic stones having been pre-
served, an equal number of plates from the latter have been printed
and colored, so that we shall be enabled to make up two hundred
copies of the complete work to be offered for sale, which will serve,
it is hoped, to reimburse, in some degree, the heavy expense incurred
in the publication of this interesting addition to the science of botany.
It may be proper to mention that the work was published in numbers,
in order that the whole expense should be defrayed by the appro-
priation of different years, as well as to furnish the author the oppor-
tunity of rendering the work more complete by more extended re-
search.

For the purpose of classification, the sea plants have been grouped

258
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

under three principal heads which are readily distinguished by their
general color.
They are as follows:

1. Melanospermeee—plants of an olive-green or olive-brown color.

2. Rhodospermee, or plants of a rosy-red or purple color.

3. Chlorospermez, or plants of a grass, rarely of a livid purple
color.

The numbers of the work already published relate to the first two
divisions, and the third, now about to be issued, will contain the last,
with an appendix describing new species discovered since the date of
the former parts.

The text of the first part of the work on Oology, mentioned in pre-
ceding reports, has been printed ; but the publication of the plates to
accompany it will be so expensive that we were obliged to defer it
until the present year. In the meantime the author will proceed with
the preparation of the other parts of the memoir, and the whole will
be completed as soon as the funds of the Institution will permit.
From an accidental oversight in the preparation of the last Report, I
neglected to mention the fact that the author of this interesting work
is Dr. Thomas M. Brewer, of Boston. The omission of his name in
the reports would not only be unjust to himself, but might also pre-
vent him from receiving in some cases additional information relative
to his labors from correspondents who are engaged in the same line of
research. The announcement of the fact of the intended publication
of this memoir has induced a number of persons to enter into corre-
spondence with the Institution on the subject, and we doubt not that
these remarks will tend to call forth other additious to our knowledge
of this branch of natural history.

Since the date of the last Report a grammar and dictionary of the
Yoruba language of Africa have been accepted for publication. Thi
work is another contribution from the missionary enterprise of the
present day, and has been prepared by the Rev. Thos. J. Bowen, of
the Southern Baptist Missionary Board, trom materials collected
during a residence of six years in Africa, and revised and rewritten with
the aid of W. W. Turner, esq., of Washington. The grammar and
dictionary are prefaced by a brief account of the country and its inhab-
itants. The long residence of the author in this part of the interior

of Africa has enabled him to gather more minute knowledge of its
topography, climate, and productions, and of the political, social, and
moral.relations of its inhabitants than has before been obtained. He

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

has collected interesting information as to the habits of thought and
action of the people, and their capacity for moral and intellectual
culture, which would have escaped the casual notice of the mere
traveller.

Yoruba is a country of Western Africa, situated to the east of
Dahomey, and extending from the Bight of Benin, in a northerly
direction, nearly to the Niger. It is between the countries explored
by the distinguished travellers, Barth, on the north, and Livingstone,
on thesouth. The author describes it as a beautiful and fertile region,
densely inhabited by a population devoted to agricultural pursuits,
who do not dwell on the lands they cultivate, but live clustered
together in villages and towns, some of which contain from 20,000 to
70,000 inhabitants. The people are generally of a primitive, simple
and harmless character, and governed by institutions patriarchal
rather than despotic. In their appearance they resemble the Cau-
casian race, while their mental powers and general moral impulses
are considerably advanced in the scale of intelligence. They have,
indeed, already attained no inconsiderable degree of social organiza-
tion, while they have escaped some of the more depraved incidents of
an advanced civilization.

The language, which is said to be spoken by about two millions of
people, is represented by Professor Turner to be very homogeneous in
its structure, almost all of it being derived from some five hundrel
primitive words. ‘Its articulations are sufficiently easy to imitate,
and there is a system of vocalic concords recurring through the whole,
which, together with the multiplicity of vowels, renders it decidedly
euphonious. The great difficulty is found in the tones and accents,
which can be discriminated only by a good ear, and must be uttered
correctly to make the speaker intelligible. The Yoruba has neither
article nor adjective, properly so called, and it is almost wholly des-
titute of inflection. The verbal root remains unchanged through all
the accidents of person, mood, and tense, which are indicated by
separate pronouns and particles. The plurality of nouns is also indi- °
cated by the aid of a plural pronoun. The numerals are based on the
decimal system, yet many of them are formed by subtraction instead
of addition or multiplication, as with us. Thus 15 is literally 10 + 5;
but 16 = 20 —4,17=— 20—3,&c. Although this language is spoken
by a rude people, it abounds in abstract terms, and the missionary
finds no difficulty in expressing in it the ideas he desires to com-
municate.”’

é
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

It is believed that this work will be received by the student of
ethnology as an interesting addition to this science, and that its pub-
lication will not only facilitate the labors of the missionary, but be
productive of valuable commercial results. The country in which the
language is spoken is rich in natural and artificial productions, and
as the inhabitants are anxious to establish relations of trade with
other parts of the world, it would seem to offer a new and tempting
field to mercantile enterprise.

Under the head of publications, we may allude to the Appendix to
the Annual Report of the Regents. Previous to 1853 this report was
in a pamphlet form, and only in one or two cases were a few extra
copies ordered. Since that date an annual volume has been presented
to Congress, of which twenty thousand extra copies have been printed.
The liberal distribution of this work has met with general approbation,
the applications to the Institution for copies have been constantly in-
creasing, and, in connexion with the Report of the Patent Office, no
document has become more popular or is better calculated to advance
the cause of knowledge among the people. The object is, as far as pos-
sible, to distribute this volume among teachers, and through them to
diffuse precise scientific knowledge to the rising generation. It is made
also the vehicle of instruction, in the line of observations, to all who
are desirous of co-operating in the investigation of the natural history
and physical geography of this country. The wide distribution of this
report has tended, more than any other means, to make known the
character of the Institution, and to awaken an interest throughout
the whole country in its prosperity.

In order to render the series complete, the first volume—that for
1853—contained a reprint of the previous reports of the Secretary,
from which a connected history of all the operations of the Institution
from the beginning may be obtained. These volumes are illustrated
by a large number of wood cuts, which have been provided at the
expense of the Smithsonian fund. We have, however, to regret that,
from the rapidity with which Congressional documents are hurried
through the press, we have not been allowed in all cases revised copies
of the proof. We cannot, therefore, be held entirely responsible for
inaccuracies of the press any more than for the style of printing or
the quality of the paper.

It is a part of the settled policy of the Institution to appropriate
its funds, as far as the original law of organization will allow, to
such objects only as cannot as well be accomplished by other means ;
and accordingly, in several instances, the printing of papers previously
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

accepted for publication has been relinquished because it was subse-
quently found that the works could be given to the public, under
certain conditions, through other agencies. In such cases the favor-
able opinion expressed by the Institution as to the character of the
work, or the assistance rendered by the subscription on the part of the
Regents, for a number of copies to be distributed in exchange for
other books among our foreign correspondents, has been sufficient to
induce some liberal minded parties to undertake the publication,
rather as an enterprise connected with the reputation of their estab-
lishments, than as a matter of profit. (¢ ddl

Among the works of this class is the “Theory ‘of the ules of the
Heavenly Bodies,’’ by the celebrated Gauss, translated by Captain C.
-H. Davis, U.S. N., late superintendent of the Nautical Almanac,
which was originally accepted by us for publication, but was after-
wards relinquished to Messrs. Little & Brown, of Boston, who have
shown in this instance, as well as in others of a similar character, a
liberality which cannot be otherwise than highly appreciated by a
discerning public. This book, which is essential to the advance of
practical astronomy, was published in Latin, in Hamburg, in 1809,
and is now of difficult access, as well as of restricted use, on account
of the language in which it appeared. It gives a complete system of
formulas and processes for computing the movement of a body revolv-
ing in an ellipse, or in any other curve belonging to the class of conic
sections, and explains a general method of determining the orbit of a
planet or a comet from three observations of the position of the body
as seen from the earth. The essay was called for at the time it was
produced by the wants of science. The planet Ceres, discovered on
the first. day of the present century by Piazzi, of Italy, had been
lost to astronomers in its passage through the portion of the heavens
illuminated by the beams of the sun, and could not be found by the
means then known, when Gauss, from a few observations of its former
place, calculated its orbit, and furnished an ephemeris by which it
was readily rediscovered. The methods employed in this determina-
tion were afterwards given in a systematic form in the work now
transJated. The copies subscribed for by the Institution, on account
of exchanges, and those paid for by the Navy Department, for the
use of the computers of the Nautical Almanac, were sufficient to
secure the publication of the work, which could not have been under-
taken without these aids.

In accordance with the same policy the Institution has subscribed
for a few copies of a work on ‘‘ The Pleiocene Fossils of South Caro-
a2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

lina,’’ by M. Tuomey and F.8. Holmes. This work received the com-
mendation of some of the distinguished members of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, at its meeting in Charles-
ton, in 1850, and its publication was undertaken at the risk and cost
of the authors. ‘The actual expense, however, far exceeded their esti-
mate, and without the liberal aid of the legislature of South Carolina
they could not have escaped heavy loss, or been enabled to complete
the work in a proper style of art. To aid the same enterprise the
Institution was induced to make the subscription above mentioned for
copies to be distributed to foreign societies. We regret to state that
before the work was fully completed the science of the country was
called to mourn the loss of Professor Tuomey, of the University of
Alabama, who, during the past year, was prematurely snatched away
from his family and friends in the flower of his age. His works,
however, will remain as an inheritance to the cause of knowledge and
the best monument to his memory. We have been gratified to learn
that, at the late session of the legislature of South Carolina, a resolu-
tion was passed authorizing a continuance of the patronage of the
State to the publication of these researches, and consequently Professor
Holmes has signified his intention to publish two additional volumes
on the Eocene and the Post Pleiocene Fossils, to which the subscrip-
tion of the Institution will also be extended.

Another work, belonging to the same class, is the series of ‘* Contri-
butions to the Natural History of the United States of America,’’ by
Professor Louis Agassiz. It has been mentioned in a previous report
that this distinguished savan was preparing a series of papers to be
presented to the Smithsonian Institution, and that the plates for some
of these had been engraved. But the number of these contributions,
and the cost of their illustration, would have absorbed a larger portion
of the Smithsonian fund than could have properly been devoted to
the labors of one individual. Fortunately, however, the reputation
and popularity of Professor Agassiz have enabled his friends to pro-
cure subscribers for an independent work, containing the result of his
valuable investigations, in numbers unprecedented in the annals of
science of this or of any other country. In order to assist this enter-
prise in the beginning, and to relieve its own funds, the Institution
subscribed for copies, to be distributed among foreign libraries, in ex-
change for rare works of a gimilar character, with which to enrich its
own library.

The Institution has also facilitated the researches described in the
first two volumes of the work in question, and I may quote the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 28

following sentence containing the acknowledgment of the author for
the services which have thus been rendered him: ‘‘ Above all, I must
mention the Smithsonian Institution, whose officers, in the true spirit
of its founder, have largely contributed to the advancement of my
researches by forwarding to me for examination not only all the
specimens of Testudinata collected for the museum of the Institution,
but also those brought to Washington by the naturalists of the dif-
ferent parties that have explored the western Territories, or crossed
the continent with the view of determining the best route for the
Pacific railroad. These specimens have enabled me to determine the
geographical distribution of this order of reptiles with a degree of
precision which I could not have attained without this assistance.’’
Besides this, the Institution caused special collections of turtles to be
made for Professor Agassiz, from those parts of the country from
which no specimens had previously been obtained.

It was originally intended, as announced in the prospectus, to issue
one volume a year, but the author found that the first volume was
insufficient to contain all the matter which he had designed to give
init. Its publication was therefore delayed, that the whole of this
part of his general subject might be presented at once, and hence two
volumes have been issued together. The large subscription which
has been obtained has enabled the publishers to extend the original
plan, and to expend a much greater sum on the engravings than was
at first thought possible. The work will serve to increase and extend
the reputation of the illustrious author, as well as to afford a striking
example of the liberality of our country and its growing appreciation
of abstract science.

Under the head of publications, and in justice to the memory of a
distinguished naturalist, a profound scholar, and a worthy man, the
late Dr. Gerard Troost, of Tennessee, it ought to be stated in this
Report, that after his death, several years ago, a memoir he had _ pre-
pared on the organic remains known as Crinoidea, illustrated by a
collection of specimens, was presented to the Smithsonian Institution
for publication. It was submitted to two naturalists of high reputa-
tion, aud found by them to be an important addition to knowledge,
though left by its author in an unfinished condition. The gentlemen
to whom it was referred generously offered to supply the deficiencies,
and to prepare the work for the press. Wheir engagements, however,
nave since been such as to prevent up to this time the completion of
the task which they undertook to accomplish. One of the gentlemen
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to whom the paper was referred, Prof. James Hall, in whose posses-
sion the specimens now are, states that he had hoped long since to
put the memoir in such a form as to do justice to the memory of Dr.
Troost, and be in accordance with the latest views of the subject. To
do this, however, required an examination of other specimens, and for
this object he had never been able to find time. At present he is
engaged in a geological report of Iowa, in which there are several
plates of Crinoids, and any which may be identical with those de-
scribed by Dr. Troost will be accredited to him. We regret exceed-
ingly this long delay in the publication of the labors of one so highly
esteemed in life and gratefully remembered in death. It has, however,
been caused by circumstances over which we had no control, and which
have given us considerable disquietude.

The new and extended series of Meteorological and Physical Tables,
which has been in course of preparation for several years, is at length
completed and ready for distribution. It forms a volume of 634 large
octavo pages, which may be divided into separate parts, each distinct
in itself. A copy of these tables will be sent to each of the meteoro-
logical observers, and it is believed that a considerable number may
be sold in this country and Europe, from which something may be
derived towards compensating the author, Prof. Guyot, for the un-
wearied labor and attention he has bestowed upon the work.

At the request of the Institution, Baron Osten Sacken, of the Rus-
sian legation, who has made a special study of Dipterous Insects has
prepared a catalogue of the previously described species of this con-
tinent, analogous to that of Melsheimer’s catalogue of the Cleoptera
of the United States, which was published some years ago by this
Institution.

It frequently happens that the same animal is described by different
naturalists under different names, and there may be among the species
enumerated in this catalogue some of this character, but in the pre-
sent state of the knowledge of American Diptera the publication of a
complete synonymical catalogue is impossible. Yet a list like the one
just completed is an indispensable preparatory work for the future
study of this branch of entomology. The catalogue includes the
species inhabiting not only the North American continent in general,
but also those in Central America and in the West Indies. It also
gives the principal localities where each species has been found.
In a list like this, says the author, completeness is the principal
merit ; the symmetrical arrangement is but of secondary importance.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

The groups adopted by Meigen and Wiedemann are retained, avoiding
the subdivisions introduced by modern authors.

The publication of this list, we trust, will very much facilitate the
study of entomology, and it is a special object of this Institution to en-
courage individuals to devote themselves to particular subjects of re-
search. The field of nature is so extended that unless it be minutely
subdivided, and its several parts cultivated by different persons, little
progress of a definite character can be anticipated. To collect the
materials for wider generalizations, microscopic research is necessary
in every direction, and men enthusiastically devoted to one object are
required in every branch of knowledge in order that the whole may be
perfected. It is true, before entering on an investigation of this kind,
that it is desirable for the individual to havea general knowledge of the
different branches of science, since they are all intimately connected ;
and the student can then narrow his field of view until it comes within
the scope of his mental abilities, or the means which he may have at his
disposal for its advancement. As a general rule, however, the ability
to enlarge the bounds of science can only be obtained by almost ex-
clusive devotion to a few branches.

It is scarcely possible to estimate too highly, in reference to the
happiness of the individual as well as to the promotion of knowledge,
the choice in early life of some subject to which the thoughts can be
habitually turned during moments of leisure, and to which observa-
tion may be directed during periods of recreation, relative to which
facts may be gleaned from casual reading, and during journeys of
business or of pleasure. It is well that every one should have some
favorite subject of which he has a more minute knowledge than any
of his neighbors. It is well that he should know some one thing
profoundly, in order that he may estimate by it his deficiencies in
others.

In this connexion it may be proper to remark that the association
of individuals in the same community, each with a special and favor-
ite pursuit, each encouraging the others, each deferring to the others,
and each an authority in his own specialty, forms an organization
alike valuable to the individual, the community, and the public gen-
erally. To induce and encourage the establishment of such associa-
tions is one of the objects of the Institution. It is suprising what
interest may be awakened, what amount, of latent talents developed,
and what dignity imparted to the pursuits of a neighborhood by a
society in which the knowledge of each becomes common property,
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and the labors of each one are stimulated by the appreciation and
applause of his fellows.

Iam acquainted with no plan of adult education better calculated
to elevate the mental character of a community or to develop the
local natural history of a district than that of a well organized and
efficiently conducted association of this kind. Such establishments,
I am happy to say, are now becoming common in every part of the
United States. They have taken the place, in many cases, of the de-
bating societies, which were formerly instituted for mental improve-
ment. ‘To the latter it might justly be objected that they tend to
promote a talent of sophistical reasoning, rather than to engender an
uncompromising love of truth. The habit of fluent speaking may
undoubtedly be cultivated at the expense of profound thought, and
however promotive at times of the temporary interests of the indi-
vidual, can never be supposed to tend to the permanent advancement
of the species.

Meteorology.—The system of meteorological observations under the
direction of the Institution and the Patent Office has been so repeatedly
described in previous reports that it will scarcely be necessary to give
any more at this time than an account of the present state of the work.
The system was commenced in 1849, and has since then been gradually
improving in the number of observers, character of the instruments,
and the precision with which the records are made. The Institution
has awakened a wide interest in the subject of meteorology, and has
diffused a considerable amount of information with regard to it which
could not readily be obtained through other means. The manufac-
ture of instruments, compared with standards furnished by the Insti-
tution from London and Paris, has been an important means of
advancing the science. The work is still continued by James Green,
173 Grand street, New York, and during the past year an increasing
number of full sets has been purchased by observers. The Institution
has continued to distribute rain-gages, with which observations are
now made on the quantity of aqueous precipitation in nearly every
State and Territory of the Union.

We are indebted to the National Telegraph line for a series of
observations from New Orleans to New York, and as far westward
as Cincinnati, Ohio, which have been ptiblished in the ‘‘ Hvening
Star,’’ of this city. These reports have excited much interest, and
could they be extended further north, and more generally to the
westward, they would furnish important information as to the ap-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

proach of storms. We hope in the course of another year to make
such an arrangement with the telegraph lines as to be able to give
warning on the eastern coast of the approach of storms, since the
investigations which have been made at the Institution fully indicate
the fact that asa general rule the storms of our latitude pursue a
definite course.

The materials which have been collected relative to the climate of
the North American continent are as follows:

Ist. A miscellaneous collection of MSS. and other tables relative to
the climate of the United States. This series will be enriched by a
reference list to all the meteorological records, which are to be found
in the extensive library of Mr. Peter Force, of this city, and other
accessible sources of information.

2d. The observations made under the direction of ae Institution
since 1849.

3d. A series of observations made by Dr. Berlandier in Mexico.

4th. Observations made in the British possessions.

5th. The record of observations made by government and other
exploring expeditions.

6th. Copies of the observations made under the direction of the Sur-
geon General at the military posts.

7th. Copies of the observations made at the expense of the States
of New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Maine, and Missouri.

8th. A series of observations from Bermuda and the West Indies.

Besides these, the Institution is endeavoring to obtain, by means of
its exchanges, a full series of all observations which have been made
in foreign countries, and to form a complete meteorological library.

Complaint has been made on account of the delay in publishing
deductions from the materials which have thus been collected, but,
with the limited means of the Institution, it should be recollected that
all objects enumerated in the programme of organization cannot be
simultaneously accomplished. The reductions have been steadily pur-
sued for the last five years, and all the funds, not otherwise absolutely
required, have been devoted by the Institution to this object.

It will be a matter of astonishment to those not practically ac-
quainted with the subject, to be informed as to the amount of labor
required for the reduction of the returns made to this Institution for
a single year. During 1856 the records of upwards of half a million of
separate observations, each requiring a reduction involving an arith-
metical calculation, were received at the Institution. Allowing an
average of one minute for the examination and reduction of each
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

observation, the amount of time consumed will be nearly 7,000 hours,
or, at the rate of seven hours per day, it will be 1,000 days or up-
wards of three years, or, in other words, to keep up with the reduction
of the current observations the whole available time of three expert
computers is required. This is independent of the labor expended in
the correspondence, preparation and distribution of blank forms, and
the deduction of general principles. The work has been prosecuted,
therefore, as rapidly as the means at the disposal of the Institution
would permit. Since the arrangement was made with the Patent
Office, from twelve to fifteen persons, many of them females, have
been almost constantly employed, under the direction of Prof. Coffin,
in bringing up the arrears and in reducing the current observations.

All the materials collected at the Institution are in the process of
being arranged and bound in accessible volumes, with proper indices,
to be used by all who may be desirous of making special investigations
on any point relative to the climate of this country.

During the past year the reductions for 1855 were printed in
pamphlet form and distributed to observers for criticism and sug-
gestions as to improvements which might be adopted in the subse-
quent publication of the entire series.

Hachanges.—The system of international exchange has been carried
on during the past year with unabated zeal, and we trust with undi-
minished good results. A large amount of scientific material has
passed through our hands in its transfer to and from societies and
individuals in this and other countries. The returns made to the
Institution during 1857 for its own publications consist of 555 vol-
umes, 1,067 parts of volumes, and 138 charts. These works embrace
most of the current volumes of scientific transactions, and are of the
highest importance as aids in original research. The number would
be very much increased if the contents of several large cases, which
were accidentally delayed until the beginning of this year, were in-
cluded.

The importance of the exchanges is not to be estimated by the com-
mercial value alone of the books received. In addition to this we
must consider the effect which it produces in bringing into immediate
communication the cultivators of literature and science in this country
with those abroad, of distributing among our societies publications of
a class, the existence of which would scarcely otherwise be known,
and of facilitating the diffusion of knowledge which, by the ordinary
modes of transmission, would not be attained, except, perhaps, in the
course of years.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

The system has now attained a great development, and increases
measurably every year. The expenses hitherto have been principally
borne by the Institution, but their amount has now become so great
as seriously to interfere with other operations, and I therefore think
it advisable that a charge be made, to the parties receiving a certain
amount of packages annually, sufficient to reimburse some of the
outlay of the Smithsonian funds. What would not be felt by each
one individually would, in the aggregate, materially lessen the burden
of expense connected with this part of the operations, which amounted,
in 1857, to about $3,000.

The expenses of the Smithsonian exchanges would be considerably
greater than they are but for the liberality of various transportaticn
companies in carrying packages free of cost. No charge on freight is
made by the United States Mail Steamship Company, the Panama
Railroad, or the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, forming the mail
line from New York to San Francisco, while the agents of the line
in these two cities, Messrs. 1. W. Raymond and A. B. Forbes, serve
the Institution in various ways. The California Express Agency
of Wells, Fargo & Co., has also acted with the greatest liberality,
and the same should be stated of the old line of Bremen and New York
steamers. None of the domestic agents of distribution—namely, Hick-
ling, Swan & Brewer, of Boston; D. Appleton & Co., New York; J.B.
Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia; John Russell, Charleston; B. M.
Norman, New Orleans; Dr. Wislizenus, St. Louis; H. W. Derby,
Cincinnati; and Henry P. B. Jewett, of Cleveland—make any charge
for services ; and the same may also be said of Messrs. Oelrichs &
Lirman, of Baltimore.

The amount of labor involved in the exchanges is, of course, very
great, as will be readily inferred from an examination of the tables
of receipts and transmissions during the past year, given by Professor
Baird. The entries in the several record books fill over 700 pages ;
the circulars, invoices, and acknowledgments, exceed 4,300, in addi-
tion to over 600 receipts for packages. For a detailed account of all
the operations of the exchanges I would refer to the accompanying
report of Professor Baird.

Explorations, researches, &c.—It was stated in the last report that
the magnetic instruments belonging to the Institution were given in
charge of Baron Miiller, for investigations in Mexico and Central
America. Two series of records of observations have been received,
but for nearly a year past nothing further has been heard from the
expedition. We should regret the loss of the instruments, although
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the cost of them has been more than repaid by the services they have
rendered to science in the Arctic expedition under Dr. Kane, and in
the results which have already been obtained from them in Mexico.

The self-registering apparatus in the observatory on the Smithso-
nian grounds, established at the joint expense of the Coast Survey
and the Institution, has continued to record the variations in the
horizontal direction of the magnetic force during a considerable por-
tion of the past year. The interruptions which have taken place have
been principally caused by the impurities of the city gas, the exhala-
lations from which have interfered with the photographic process.
The records obtained, however, will furnish valuable data for study-
ing, in connexion with similar observations in other parts of the
globe, the character of the magnetic force, and to assist in determin-
ing how far the changes are merely local, or to what extent they
affect the whole earth.

Laboratory.—During the past year the laboratory has been under
the charge of Dr. EH. W. Hilgard, recently appointed State geologist
of Mississippi. Among others, a series of experiments was made by
him, under direction of the Secretary, at the expense of the Navy
Department, relative to the vapor from a modification of bi-sulphuret
of carbon as a substitute for steam applied to mechanical purposes.
The result of these investigations was unfavorable to the substitution
of this material in the way proposed. Although a greater amount of
pressure is produced at the same temperature than in the case of
steam, yet the amount of work relative to the absolute quantity of
heat employed is by no means in accordance with this, the density of
the vapor and its greater specific heat require a corresponding amount
of fuel, and when we consider the fact that the bi-sulphuret of carbon
is not a natural but a factitious substance, of which the vapor, when
combined with air, is highly explosive and extremely offensive on
account of its odor and the greater complexity of the engine required
for its use, its application in the place of steam would be far from
advantageous.

Another series of investigations was conducted in the laboratory
relating to the prevention of counterfeiting bank notes, particularly
by photography; but as this was intended especially for private use,
the expenses were paid by the parties interested.

The Institution does not consider it a part of its duty to volunteer
an opinion as to the practicability of the new projects with which the
public mind is frequently agitated; but when directly called upon by
the government or other parties of influence to pronounce a judgment
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a

on any point of practical or applied science, it does not shrink from
the responsibility, but, after diligent and cautious inquiry, gives the
conclusions, whatever they may be, at which it has arrived.

Library.—Extensive alterations are in the process of being made in
the wing of the building appropriated to the library, for the better
accommodation of the bocks. The shelving has been arranged in two
stories of alcoves, thereby more than doubling the space. Hach lower
alcove is separately secured by a door ; a precaution which has been
found necessary in the library of the Institution as well as in that of
Congress. It is a fact to be regretted, but which it is necessary to
mention in order to vindicate the restrictions imposed upon an indis-
criminate access to the books, that there is in some quarters a lamentable
want of honesty with regard to the use of property of a public character.
Not only are works in many cases mutilated, merely to avoid the labor
of copying a few pages, but valuable sets are sometimes broken by
actual theft.

The appropriation for the library must not alone be measured by
the sum assigned for the ‘‘ cost of books ;’’ it must be recollected that
the library is principally increasing by means of the exchanges ; that
every year the Institution sends abroad, besides all the public docu-
ments which it can procure, some hundreds of copies of the quarto
volumes of its transactions, the marketable value of which is several
thousand dollars. It therefore ought to be distinctly understood that
the library is constantly increasing by the addition of the most valuable
series of the transactions of literary and scientific societies in all parts
of the world, and that this is at the expense of what are denominated
the active operations of the Institution. It is true the number of
books directly purchased is comparatively small, but indirectly pro-
cured in the way stated the annual addition is valuable.

Among the numerous donations received during the past year it is
of course impossible in this report to particularize more than a few
of the most important. The Academies of Science of Vienna, St.
Petersburg, and of Brussels, have all contributed largely both of their
older and more recent issues. The Real Sociedad Economica, of
Havana, has been particularly liberal in this respect, furnishing nearly
complete series for many years back, as have also the Horticultural
societies of Paris and Berlin. The most extensive single gift during
the year has been that of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, in
72 volumes, and the Histoire Naturelle des Mammirfées, of Buffon
and Daubenton, in 15 volumes, from the Herzogliche Bibliothek der
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Friedensteinschen Sammlungen, Gotha. The British Admiralty has
contributed a full set of all the charts published by it during the year,
We may also mention, as an object of special interest of this class, a
valuable set of historical maps, presented by Justus Perthes, the
celebrated geographical publisher of Gotha, exhibiting the political
condition of Europe from the beginning of the third century down to
the time of the crusades. The limits of the several empires are ex-
hibited by different colors, and the whole are on such a scale as to
be adapted for instruction in schools or academies. To render this
interesting work more generally known in this country, it is proposed
to exhibit the maps in the reading room and to translate and print
the pamphlet of explanations for the use of the visiters to the Insti-
tution.

Among the curiosities of the library received during the past year
the most prominent is an ornamental album, presented through the
Department of State, from Miss Contaxaki, a native of the isle of
Crete. This work was designed as a contribution to the universal
exhibition at Paris in 1855, where it received a diploma for the artistic
merit displayed in its execution. The ‘‘ Classical Bouquet,”’ as it is
called, consists of illustrations of the principal monuments and places
in Greece, to which are added a few from the author’s native isle of
Crete. These illustrations are accompanied by quotations from the
most illustrious Greek authors, beautifully illuminated, while many
of the pages are adorned with pressed flowers culled from the places
which the drawings represent. The book itself is a large quarto,
covered with blue velvet heavily embroidered, and lettered with silver.
It is inclosed in a case, nade of olive wood of the country, about a foot
and a half square, richly carved and ornamented with appropriate
devices. This work was transmitted to the United States through
Charles C. Spence, esq., and affords a favorable specimen as well of
the present state of the arts in that country, which was the birthplace
of the true and the beautiful, as of the talents, the taste, and the un.
wearied industry of the lady who devised and principally executed it.

The library possesses an extensive collection of pamphlets, in-
cluding the separate theses of the candidates for graduation or honors
at the German universities ; also a series of the annual reports of the
public institutions and societies in thiscountry. During the past year
these have been classified, a large number of them bound, and the
remainder arranged in pasteboard boxes, labeled and placed on the
shelves as volumes,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

The binding of the books received through exchange continues to
be a large item of expense, and we have devoted the remainder of the
appropriation for the library, not expended in the purchase of books
or for clerical service, to this object.

In relation to the books received by the copyright law, I have but
little to say in addition to what has been stated in preceding reports.
The provisions of the act are still disregarded, to a considerable extent,
by the larger publishers, and, as a general rule, works are received of
but little value in themselves and inconsistent with the character of
the library of the Institution. Though the cost of postage has been
diminished by the law of Congress authorizing the free transmission
of copyrights, yet it has by no means exempted the Institution from
a large item of expense on this account. The publishers frequently
inclose within the packages letters relating to the proper direction of
the certificates and other matter pertaining to the copyright, and by
a decision of the Post Office Department all such communications are
charged with letter postage. Though the sum in each case appears
insignificant, yet in the aggregate it may amount, in the course of a
year, to several hundred dollars; and since the system from the begin-
ning has been of no real benefit to the Institution, we have addressed
a circular to each publisher who forwards a copyright and neglects to
pay the postage on the accompanying letters, apprising him of the fact.

In conclusion, I may state that though the copyright law was un-
doubtedly intended to enrich the library of the Institution, yet the
non-compliance with it of some of the principal publishers, and the
reception of a large amount of worthless matter involving expense in
its transportation and care has entirely defeated this object. The cost
of the system has been at least ten times greater than the value of the
books received; nor is thisall; acompliance with the act has constantly
subjected the Institution to unmerited censure. We have therefore
been a loser both in funds and in the friendly feeling of an influential
portion of'the community, and it is to be hoped that Congress will, at
its present session, essentially modify the existing law. The deposit
of a single copy of each article in the Patent Office, instead of the
three now sent to Washington, would be sufficient to secure the
rights of the author, and answer all the objects of a complete collec-
tion of this class of American publications.

Museum.—The general plan and objects of the collections which
have been assiduously formed through the agency of the Smithsonian
35
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Institution have been given in several of the preceding reports, and it
will be sufficient, at this time, to repeat that they are intended to
exhibit the distribution and development of the plants and animals, as
well as to illustrate the geological and mineralogical character of the
North American continent. The number of specimens required for
these purposes is great, since all the varieties from every locality re-
quire attention. During the past year specimens have been collected
by ten government expeditions and six private exploration parties.
Some of the returns from these are now on the way, and will greatly
enhance the number and value of the materials before received. Ac-
cording to the statement of Professor Baird, hereto appended, the
catalogued specimens of animals at the end of the year 1857, amount-
ed to: mammals, 3,200; birds, 8,766; skeletons and skulls, 3,340;
reptiles, 239 ; fishes, 613. ;

During the year several persons have availed themselves of the use
of the collections and library in the prosecution of original researches,
and, as usual, several government expeditions, which have been sentout
for surveys, the construction of roads and for military purposes, have
been provided with instructions as to the mode of collecting specimens
and observing meteorological and other natural phenomena. No oppor-
tunity of adding to our store of information, in regard to the physical
geography and natural history of the western portion of this continent,
has been suffered to pass without being improved, and I may safely
say, that since the establishment of the Institution more has been
done to ascertain and make known the character of the less inhabited
portion of our continent than all which had been previously accom-
plished in this line. The survey of routes from the Gulf of Mexico
to the Pacific has served of late to add much to our knowledge of
Central America, and during the past year the British government
has sent out a party for the exploration of the country north of the
limits of the United States and between the great lakes and the Pacific
ocean. This survey, in connexion with that along the 49th parallel of
latitude, now in progress for determining the boundary line between
the United States and the British possessions, will add to the natural
history of the northern portion of our territory, and will furnish the
data necessary to delineate more accurately the great mountain
system which determines the climate and physical peculiarities of the
western portion of this continent.

Smithson’s personal effects. —The bequest of James Smithson included
all his personal effects, and these were obtained by Hon. Richard Rush,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

the agent of the American government, through whom the legacy was
procured. ‘They were delivered by him to the Secretary of State, and
afterwards deposited in the museum of the Patent Office, where they
remained until the last year, when they were transferred to the Regents’
room in the Smithsonian building. They have been arranged for exhi-
bition in a large case of black walnut, and now form an interesting por-
tion of the collections of the Institution. They consist of a very ex-
tensive series of rare though minute specimens of mineralogy, of the
table service of plate of Smithson, and of the portable chemical and
mineralogical apparatus with which he made his investigations,
Besides the above mentioned articles, the Institution has had in its
possession for several years the library of Smithson, containing 115
volumes, and a collection of manuscripts, principally consisting of what
would appear to be the materials of a philosophical dictionary. The
whole collection taken together serves to exhibit the character of the
man, and clearly to indicate his intention as to the nature of the Insti-
tution to which he gave his name. It serves to strengthen the convic-
tion, ifanything of this kind were needed, that the proper interpretation
of the will has been given by the Regents in adopting the plan which
makes active operations, the discovery of new truths, and a diffusion
of these among men, the prominent object of the establishment.

In this connexion, it may be interesting to repeat a statement made
in a former report, that the institution is in possession of two like-
nesses of Smithson ; one, a portrait of him while a youth, in the cos-
tume of a student at Oxford, the other a medallion, from which a steel
engraving has beenexecuted. The first was purchased from the widow
of John Fitall, the servant of Smithson, and the other was among his
effects, and identified by a paper attached to it, on which the words
‘‘my likeness’ were written in Smithson’s own hand. A list of the
papers published by Smithson, and a record of all the facts which
could be gathered in relation to him, have been made, to serve here-
after for a more definite account of his life and labors than has yet
appeared.

Gallery of Art.—During the past year this apartment of the Smith-
sonian building has been enriched by a faithful copy, in Carrara
marble, of the ‘‘ Dying Gladiator,’’ one of the most celebrated statues
of antiquity. This copy, which is said to be the only one in marble
in existence, has been deposited here by its owner, F. W. Risque,
esq., of the District of Columbia, to whom the public of this country
is indebted for his liberality in the purchase and free exhibition of so
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

costly and interesting a specimen of art. It is by Joseph Gott, an
English sculptor of high reputation, and its faithfulness, as a repre-
sentation of the original, is vouched for by a certificate, among others,
from our lamented countryman, Thomas Crawford.

The Stanley collection of Indian portraits, which is still in the
Gallery, has, during the past year, been increased by a number of
new pictures, and continues to be an object of interest to the visitors
of the national capital. This collection, now the most extensive in
existence, of Indian portraits, ought, as we have stated in previous
reports, to be purchased by government. Itis a sacred duty which this
country owes to the civilized world to collect everything relative to
the history, the manners and customs, the physical peculiarities, and,
in short, all that may tend to illustrate the character and history of
the original inhabitants of North America. The duty which Mr.
Stanley owes to his family will not permit him to retain the collection
unbroken, and unless Congress make an appropriation for its pur-
chase, he will be obliged to dispose of it in portions. Such an event
would be a lasting source of regret; and, from the interest which a
number of distinguished members of the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives have expressed in regard to the purchase, we doubt not
that the proposition will in due time be favorably entertained.

Lectures.—During the past season the usual number of lectures
has been given, without any diminution in the size of the audience
and the apparent interest of the public.

In connexion with this subject, we may mention, complaints have
frequently been made against the Institution, on account of the bad
condition of the walks leading to the building ; but it should be recol-
lected that the grounds belong to the government and are not under
the control of the Regents.. A plank walk has, however, been laid
dewn along the principal thoroughfare and lighted, on nights of lec-
tures, at the expense of the Institution.

The Smithsonian lecture-room is found to be the most commodious
apartment in the District for public meetings, and almost constant
applications are made for its use. This is granted in all cases, pro-
vided the actual expense of lighting, heating and attendance be paid,
and the object for which it is required be consistent with the character
of the Institution, and not merely intended to advance individual
interests. The rule which excludes from the lectures any subject
connected with sectarianism, discussions in Congress and the political
questions of the day, has been strictly observed.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

The following is a list of the lectures which were delivered during
the winter of 1857-58:

Seven lectures by Professor John LeConte, of the South Carolina
College, on ‘‘ The Physics of Meteorology.”’

One lecture by Hon. H. W. Hilliard, of Alabama, on the ‘‘ Life
and Genius of Milton.’’

Two lectures by Dr. I. I. Hayes, of Philadelphia, on ‘ Arctic Ex-
plorations.”’

One lecture by Rev. T. J. Bowen, of Yoruba, Africa, on ‘‘ Central
Africa—the Country and People.”’

One lecture by D. K. Whitaker, esq., of Charleston, 8. C., on the
“¢ Genius and Writings of Sir Walter Scott.’’

Two lectures by Professor C. C. Felton, of Harvard College, Cam-
bridge, Mass., on ‘‘ Modern Greece.”’

Four lectures by Dr. James Wynne, of New York, on the ‘* Dara-
tion of Life in Various Occupations.’’

Three lectures by Professor J. P. Espy, on ‘‘ The Law of Storms.’’

Five lectures by Rev. J. H. McIlvaine, of Rochester, N. Y., on
‘* Comparative Philology in some of its bearings upon Ethnology,
and embraciag an account of the Sanscrit and Persian Arrowhead
Languages.’’

Three lectures by G. Gajani, on ‘‘ The Catacombs, the Coliseum, and
the Vatican of Rome.’’

One lecture by Professor Schele de Vere, of the University of Vir-
ginia, on ‘‘ John Law and the Celebrated Mississippi Speculation.’’

From the foregoing" statements we think it will be generally
acknowledged that the Institution is steadily pursuing a course of
usefulness well calculated to make the name of its founder favorably
known and the results of his bequest highly appreciated in every
part of the civilized world, that its funds are in a good condition, and
that the prospect of its future influence in the promotion of know-
ledge is even more cheering than at any period of its past history.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary S. I.
Wasurneton, January, 1858,
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

SMITHSONIAN [nsTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1857.

Sir: I have the honor, herewith, to present a report, for 1857, of the
operations you have entrusted to my charge, namely, those which re-
late to the printing, to the exchanges, and to the collections of natural
history.

Respectfully submitted.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution,
JosepH Henry, LL.D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Institution for the year consist of the ninth
volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, embracing 484
pages of quarto text and 22 plates, and of the annual report to Con-
gress, an octavo volume of 468 pages. Considerable progress has
also been made with the printing of the tenth volume of Smithsonian
Contributions, 136 pages and five plates being finished.

The catalogue of North American Diptera, by Baron Ostensacken,
is nearly through the press and will include 112 octavo pages.

EXCHANGES.

The system of international exchanges so successfully prosecuted by
the Institution since its establishment has been carried on during the
year with the happiest results. A large amount of scientific material
has passed through its hands and has been promptly transmitted to
its destination. The general details of the system will be presented
hereafter.

The returns made to the Smithsonian Institution for its own dona-
tions will be found in the following table:

A.—eceipt of books, dc., by exchange in 1857.

MOLUIMER—-OCLHVOns 222 ocee cece Se een e mstenec a aon na. eh eee 404
Oniantors sees Ses = Da ee eee ae os oa eee 146
Wolioz {lew Ase esse ese ah os ek ee 5
— 555
Parts of volumes and pamphlets—
QOGAVO jase>. oe cesuce - secs ee saissisccessmeeeemeeinees 775
OUATIO tess sect eeas -StcccconenaneemecTeeeeene mentee 255
HMOWO Maca se leeemianesscclata cess = Seees cee eet ees 37
— 1,067
(Charts/aHG Maps) pcee ene eee es cence aes. Sean eee eee eee 138
REPORT OF ASSISTANT eee. 39

The works received embrace most of the current volumes of scientific
transactions, with some back series, and are of the highest importance
as materials of scientific research.

In the following tables are exhibited the chief statistics of exchange
during both 1856 and 1857. The last annual report did not fully
cover the subject, owing to the fact that a supplementary sending was
required in January, 1857, to complete that of July, 1856, and a re-
port for 1856 could not reasonably include what was actually not per-
formed till the ensuing year. In presenting the series of tables
throughout, those of transmissions for 1856 are to be understood as
embracing parcels forwarded in January 1857. This will explain the
apparent disproportion in amount for the two years, as much of what
was sent in the beginning of 1857 would otherwise not have gone until
the ensuing summer.

B.

Table showing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution in 1856.

| wo | =| ' J P=
PA a ete = orci fe =
a Bah | eke oak ee eet) a
a fe. Vad | ar
= Se See = 9 (se ae ne 5
Ne ae) si} ae los 5 A) a | ae
Distributed through— = oe bf Ss. lee os Ses lmees ae
= cots Mall ae p= Oey OF) ees ik iors
pte ae fae Pee 3 5 | & | #9
3e Eh go pera = By ai = ae | is aes
3 = = | =o = = R 20
= ee andes 3 = ae
= Te ae Pa = Bee [ne
————$————_ ssp, ——————
. Dr. F. Fliigel, Leipsic.
RMMEUGHE Gilstad cictersla\a)e(awiels's'eweiaces 8 2 SS ole 22 Dy) orwtars. aiven fod Oth terete sarees g
LOIS D Egos apeeoc Apageaee eases C) Tiler ce ack | 13 Tilaues aes RR Ae 3) eee
MGEIANG warwc sas s oaicein's 0.06,0,0e.ce\sisine iW issoosd Seen eee | SB eSnes0| BERBOroA) Cinatiy ies -c@e) Mase e tae
Den Marks isis cle clseiueiarae os w'ateeeves 6 Db i seinreweil IR SM Boconcee I Gwisieos pill oavatet sl aust aieki<«
PGs Sea M sonic cana tees saenaens 2 ged ene A geal 8 ape: 2k rated | el ot Site aSeore
HONANGe ttl sees veeewanecacwde 17 LG GFe Seek | AGH | | STS leh peRe seed eee wee ste Me ae 2,
GEFMANY 7. sdclesvermeeniasesse sacs 15S, , AGS fe; aes be | ALE. CAD sensi sas pl sasislelellasweiss)(< cntaion =
SMART AAI a sjciwie’eajelsic'ew che cinidisia'e 15 BU iheniesi wine's SO ue oa itera) le atniatal luletearwiell wt olaete reas
BeleiaM 5 occas ceiiicavcecenses vee 3 TOP Et ree Aa) | VG eA ome teaenmbawiee | sbin ecw
Lace aN |
PR GAN sawn’ Se mnemasiinsienadh poeta aoe 562} 656 38 | 1,042| 42] 340] 10,428
| | | } |
2. H. Bossange, Paris. | | |
Barca tetoeremrctars Siete c aislele efule's w/e ata dels 190i! *HQBe). 22s. Ler FAD | erate site Nate ee wsi|'ceecos'| miwcvoaee
Picea Na eit misiele «/ ciel =, viwio ech atcisletama'niars 42 chal he are hain | 95 Be ee ee | ereranet s Fecal \amciove sine
Spain and Portugal.........0....- 5 [owncnere 14 1 pease) neacts): [een crash eiae'e aaa
} ea
} |
AL OLallscieriv octet cinioteinvete sats a's oh 281 | 296 | 176 | 472) ) 23126)" "45199
3. The Royal Society and H. Stevens, |
London.
Great Britain and Ireland......... 117 | 231 | 348 | 260 | 253 513 9| 94] 2,914
:
—|—— ' — |
4. Other channels. ...ccevesicecaves eife 26 10 | 36 | 39 | 10 49 | 6 | 26 800
_———$—_ | ——__— | | | ——$———|
| | |
SPRUE Vek S cis ces cou ace 511 | 716] 1,227] 1,251 | 825] 2,076] 70| 5386 | 18,271
| | / |

40

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

G.

Table showing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution in 1857.

Distributed through—

1. Dr. F. Fliigel, Leipsic.

S WEEN . wevccevccccesscceeneees
INOF Wale onic) to esie viuieaisisieniene

PECAN eters e'e's 0 sain raise Sin to

PICMG ALK cerniste alaicieies\elaiaisiolsinivieiale «x
Russia..... plsje ais sjulels\olale(a's win tsin\eiaiei=
Holland..... wleivuete Biateleyalpieid) sleleisisia’s

GeNMANY/ «200 vec ces. sncccses eens

SWITZELIAN Gon se view bow siecle enn vleise

Belgium. cecveccsoves cesses cosee-

PROtAb csp sietseicc esis visis ana

. Bossange, Paris.
FYaNCe ...ccccceccecccscees coves:

SU tied Uyjate twists nls taloinlo\iclele biatw\e'ein'clclcjais/ele:«

SS PARI erate va reietel = slelefejeleiel eters aialsin secs </e

POFtugalcccer cccecs soccles suse ce

ENGTEY Goo aoqgdengano6 20506

3. The Royal Society and H. Stevens,
London. "

A KOMCT CRUNNEIS. occlu cee) ssicieisioliieelatenteh

Great Britain and Ireland........

Granditotalle. cccisss's esisins

| Principal addresses
of parceis.

all tell ©)
IO OD on

505

sub-

parcels inclosed.

Addresses of

ra
So

460

Total of addresses.

eee twee

Number of principal
packages.

= eis |
Fae 2 = n
Seth 2 eet 2
20 3) re) ns an
=D = 2 25 —
>= ES St aloe] bog
aS Se x 2 r—)
Ms 3 |3 25
pa 3 Shs 3
= io) Ss »
Zz = Zz 1a i
GAl| eae. ae
NG sk gac-rvc adhe. NA eee ae aa
37 Cr eo oe eeerl reer seen
eres yaltee ea eee be ee
DEP areermegeeany (re SH ie a ee oe
Ei at, isnaicloul te aeeeste Re Galaedl oe cea
Is) CPP Mee A A | ae
382 847| 19| 183] 6,928
Tiidltnccc Seealisas FNS RA as beae
32 Sin afaeitoasll Sea aes A
thy re acs 2
110 288 6| 63] 2,410
158 390| 10] 118] 3,910
10 100 5| 20] 1,000
660| 1,625] 40] 384] 14,948

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

4]

D.—Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution for foreign dis-

tribution in 1856 and 1857.

No. of packages

Albany, N. Y.— 1856.

New York State Agricultural Society -....-.....-----.-.<---- 5

New, Monk state Medical’ Socicty;..— «nasser 6

PTOt  aIneCs All ne oo can coo Rca enn ec so ee oem as ene 8 |
Baltimore, Md. --

TE TedW q0g) ae B17 (2) eee ea ee a Se 25
Baton Rouge, La.—

institution tor Mutes and’ Blind!) -..-<-<2s2y-.-2-s2s—-20 = <=c~ 18
Boston, Mass.--

American Academy of Arts and Sciences...-....-...=.-=...- 392

Beston Society of Natural History +. o--..-. <--- 2a on nee ==2- 65

Historic-Genealogical Society ..-..-.-.------..-- He obdactice 1

moron) Discipime NOCety 2-2 ona ajan an cae one a ones mea 32

WP WHILCO See ose oan es rae a cee oat oeeiaaaa cae saan = 5

Eiiguicr ied: oo 0" eel. oo cae tema eaaee te ote eS eee |

Weehle Dixoniena. 236 Soleo ot aee deeds ao seats se 5

Een INS Mee ola oe no toe ern a late cine Se ee oom nase aimee ec | eee

Hd. Tackerman....-- Oe er se Oe ee Se ee ee ee

Negtiew LrescOtlmocn n= soe Cosa cee mote ek as ala ee ee ee aeeee 8

Pikeo) aanos prnney,, MiP Loo. oo ee ae ae se ee ee
Cambridge, Mass.—

American Association for Advancement of Science..-.-.------ 28

Cambridge Observatory’. 222542 55--Se 52 So ea ee eee ae Petes

Denne Soe Joc aocce Solna meeeeet ces cemeteries sieleee sae 50

ero fensay GQIay a. aco ac ase oe sae See ee oe ae a a te 1

BRGe ot! Trend welle. 2 \con4- see eas caesar eacmaenaoeae ae 200
Charleston, S. C.—

Dee “Wee Ravenel 220 fos Ss ese Se Se dese see eis - 2
Chicago, Ill —

Colch Ds Grabai,, US. Ao asceoscee nome sas cmee cease rane. | seer eee
Cincinnati, Ohio—

Ja big] Dade SGA of ogg La Bega a ae pela ial Dae oe fa 24

De Vanohankes < os oaks Bole ce ee es 24
Columbus, Ohio-—

One State: Board of Acricalture . 2 oto. -ssceu saeco aeemee | aecaeees
Frankfort, Ky.—

eauriesl Sutvey Of Kentucky ~~ Jccsccocss sooseso- ss osees eweecne.
Georgetown, D. C—

Georzetowns Colleres* sass fesse we sis Peek sas sass eee 2
Granada, Nicaragua—

IPTESIM eR GIVER se eie cmete ne ee one tee ee eee. melee ome 100
Hartford, Conn.—-

fon. Henry barmmandeeses ose se. hos Sele so See ee 283

Mes Potter sos oS eee eee Sone cae Sa ences sees See 22
Lansing, Mich.—

Michigan State Agricultural Society ..-.---------+---------- 50
Letanon, Tenn.—

ENOL OSOLd 2. = Loe Scene ane Bee eee ee eee ae =| hos see
Lowell, Mass. —

amensb Wancis’ . 2.222. cee ses SaaS aaa ee ee coe ee ne 16
Madison, Wis.—

Wisconsin’ State Apricultural Society 2225-42 seseseseress ate lesee 2-5

istoricaly society, of WiSCOnsini jon ame ee eee as a ees woe
New Brunswick, N. J.—

Prot. Gen i. Cook <= .3.0. 22 eee “apo p ac  Aapde lh Pood etic ae Ep eee

see ree

ae ee eee
42 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D—Continued.
No. of packages.
New Haven, Oonn.-— 1856. 1857.
amnencannlourmal of Sciencetee seu eeee see eases cee 48 20
ponenicany Oriental SOCebYy. .2eokeos owe ose aouk fo eget os Malis Dasma
Proiemioe MIMS ted oe aoe Ue etes eee st ec Ae NRE 10 7
New York—
American Geographical and Statistical Society............----|-------- 57
New: York Dycewm of Natural ‘History (02/220 200 eh oa RN eee tee
SAE FY Ube 6 ote hs AS A RS aR RR emp UN AA 2 90
Philadelphia, Pa.~-
Amen can iM OsOpMi Cali SOClet yay 26 ae ee eee ane mice a mena 42 79
ANCAdemy: GiiNetUrAlSCLeNCe sue = Seana atk anne ee ea a 300 173
CentralyHigh' School of Philadelphiac: 20.00.0000 00 100 109
Historical Society of Pennsylvania 222 se. ooo ee eee iy || eres oe
Pennsylyaniaginstitute tor .the Blinds. 2m. — sane ie Ae 45 AY)
Poailadeipiia iabrary Company i020 225222225 20" ee TO) joe eset
WNT PER OGM CTU ISS UNG cara eee ete ee een eee ge BIN Aa IR URE LOO nares 53.8
SEND ES TE CaRy ee ge acetal car lee pe teeing Uae dee 171 178
Drmcse phi leldivecsmen cae acca tert t. \ tik 2AM SR aEe eee 16} 47
Domo nmAt NICIO ge tennis Se yale ees he ce ROA ee Teo eve eee 44
Providence, R. [ —
SUACROMN NO CMS ANG acme mee se eet oe a Se ee Lee eeee 6
St. Louis, Mo —
St WoulseAcademypotesciencese sees see een t. Se ee eee al eee eee 161
Dr Bh Shumeards= 226 ee ahaa See a ese ie eee Se eee, P2algece cree s
San Francisco, Cal —
California Academy of Natural Sciences .-......--.....------ We eases ae
Santiago, Chile-—
WiniversiiyOrn Chile tee cess. ee sam ee een Dae eat Pee ce 140) 2ae2e soe
Savannah, Ga ——
i eR OS hae ONCE Beers eee aint ste ae Set cans Ee St eR ee HO iekat cose
Toronto, Canada——
Canachianialns trbUbe see oa ate oper he oe io taal Se ee ee Ng fat A 17
Washington, D. 0.—
WegsmgBatent Offices s sa pee aun eh ee als 250 250
Ordnance Bureau -...... 15 AER A ade EB ee he ae Ca re a ANG, Nein Sea
ST Woastisunveyacsoceecce ose seein eed ee sya 67 497
Rrsieohiee OO SERVALORV is.) cee 7s aoa Se owise Cte fc See Mis ome 73
ie TOUBE ES OAnO ns oe crete ee tee, SU Se ee a ae Oy a ceaees
SISTER TERY GUE HAE AS SA A RC A TN nee aie 120 ii4
Surgeon General.....__- Sep a aie oT aT enone ae eieie | eee 50
Major Hi Bimory, We S.A sooo. 2 oo 8 BS ee rennet Whi) || sees Sees
DIG ReAL Ey IBA ey Nk A ah Nh aR NN ee eR a eh i (33.0)
DD ide St uNe Ww DEty Seema cere sin ter uee rs wane aa. oe 20 Wee 2 a=
METS Ur tks CpliVes UNS SAE eee eee acre cen ERCP. sh |e Aree
MGS UDHG Reena rem Rite Ateete ee Sewers en at se Lal ed BO eens eso
Wie tibsye). We NG asa Ut Seige ere eee te ce et nl) ek 25
Ward SUL PSOM 2 eye oe eae terme re AF on S85 ta 50
Degg Ge enmediy . Sao 2 co ie hea eee at tat het ca 59
Vier pmuuhG Ogre ea cae cart me eRe ete te RET CL Ae en | 109
Minscellameousips 2 Pcie eae aid cic ai aw cle aN ee es eC 133 120
1 BC] Sip a Re a ath CC eet Ha Tir Oe 3,510 3, Ook
Supposing cach parcel to contain an average of one and a half pieces,
the numberof these would be so 222.22 ee on eee 5, 265 3,095
Add of Smithsonian volumes and memoirs, about _...--.----------- 2,500 2,500
Add volumes of public documents obtained and distributed, about....| 1, 500 1, 000

Approximate total of volumes and pamphlets sent abroad by the
Instibutionl pean oee eee ae nace wae Se aoe Sea

\
)

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

43

E.—Addressed packages received, by the Smithsonian Institution from

Europe, for distribution in America.

No. of packages.

Albany, N. Y.--
hen VOTKtotmtemibTanyie a cabs nee Sea leee samt eee
Boston, Mass.—-
| American Academy of Arts and Sciences ...-.-_------.------
Boston Society of Natural History.....-----------------7---
Bowarbew: UNDIaey =e eee awe cee n enema cee a= aaa a em meso
Cambridge, Mass.—-
American Association for Advancement of Science------------
Cambridge Astronomical Journal-..-.....------.<----.-=---
Gambmadce.ObsenvkuOly os ==> 2-5 e2 = aan ese <a ee ome eee ee
Hanvand Colleser eek 222s =- ss 2e2* Soo Sse ena me
Charleston, S. C.—
interary-and EPhilosophical’Society --=<=2.2- =-----s===----——-
Colum’ us, Ohio—
Ohio State Board of Agriculture -.-.-.....-.-----ee.--------
Georgetown, D. C.——
Georgetown College.......+--------.-<--=-=-s-s<0-----4-
Lansing, Mich.—
Michigan State Agricultural Society .......---+-------------
Madison, Wis —
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society -....------------------
New Haven, Conn.—-
American Journal of Science -..--.------------------------
Miaka nd One TEU Soe 2 hee PEO eae oe soccer ae ae cee
New Orleans, La.——
New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences --.-------.-------
New York—-
American Geographical and Statistical Society .-.-.----------
New York Lyceum of Natural Histury......----.----------
Philadelphia, Pa.—
Americans: btlosophical ‘Soctety.< 252-225-222 s22san-e~—a52——
Academy of Natural 'Sciences.----<2----- --<55-s2c—-<acm—--
ranineinstittters +2 Sasson ao Stee ato. Saat eee ams
San Francisco, Cal.—
California Academy of Natural Sciences. ---.--.-------------
Santiago, Chile—
ifcensitivs Of: Ohi levee sae Stele teen ye ata ole mi tetalas =
@ bre myeconyesapss = Ay aeons ot Sees ee en Sete eee
Washington, D. C.—
HPS bavcnhyOMmeGe essa aeae noon ass eee ee wanes Sees
Nations’ LnGiibu bees e tens ar ee Se nee sore ans ie re
Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography..--.-.--.------------
Wess: Coast: Surveyors se cue eee oe esate ae see ae ee
Wergorial Observe tony sete ate ate ete ee i i
Sonpeon Generales seer ts ees See ae aa eb
United! States Agricultural Societys... -- --.2=----=------= = —
Hibpanysoi Congress see ees eee oe ae ete a ee ee
Worcester, Mass —
Americal “Ant uaATi ans SOClehy aks ae = o-e eee eee eee
Miscellaneous addresses, institutions....---..---------..-.--------
mnidividials® eq. eee ee ae Se

9 9
42 53
30 39

PR
7 7
24 19
9 9
22 19
i eee
14 24
Bee RE cc ok.
8 13
22 22
5 5
PCM
12 16
24 19
24 25
74 55
57 62
9 7
4 19
6

2 7
37 57
3 3
1 3
27 24
23 63
it Baek ee
ee Ce
17 10
1g een oecee
437 330
318 320
1245 | 1,273

In addition to the above, 142 volumes were received from five European institutions for

distribution to such addresses as might be selected by the Smithsonian.
44 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

DETAILS OF THE SYSTEM OF EXCHANGES.

As the system of international exchange now carried on by the
Smithsonian Institution has attained a very great development, a
sketch of the mode of conducting it may not be amiss at the present
time. The subject may be considered under two heads, one relating
to the parcels received from parties in the United States for transmis-
sion to foreign countries, and the other having reference to receipts-
from abroad for institutions and individuals in America. In con-
nexion with this subject, it may be stated that a large room in the
Institution, measuring 70 feet by about 25, is devoted to the depart-
ment of exchanges, and, besides containing the stock on hand of
Smithsonian publications and of miscellaneous documents, is fitted up
on one side with a series of large binns, each one devoted to a partic-
ular portion of the world, and appropriately labelled. The floor of
the room is occupied by a series of long tables, five feet wide, on which
parcels are made up or unpacked. Printed addresses are arranged in
small pigeon holes, and include nearly all the correspondents of the
Institution, domestic and foreign, amounting, at the present time, to
nearly one thousand names.

Operations connected with transmissions from the United States.—The
transmissions of the Smithsonian Institution are regulated, in a mea-
sure, by the time when the annual volume of Smithsonian Contribu-
tions is completed. One or two months before this time, a circular
letter of advice is transmitted to all the institutions and individuals
in the United States and the Canadas known or supposed to have
a desire to avail themselves of the facilities of the Smithsonian sys-
tem of exchanges, and the conditions stated upon which parcels will
be received. If any society or individual have published a work
likely to be of interest to the scientific and literary world abroad, and
no indication is given of an intention to distribute copies, a special
application is made for them, and no effort left untried to secure to
the foreign investigators the benefit of all original and useful Ameri-
can material. Such appeals are generally responded to very favor-
ably, and very many publications of the different bureaus of the gov-
ernment, of States, and of State agricultural and historical institutions,
of societies, and of individuals, have thus been obtained.

In nearly all cases, in the first instance, at least, the Smithsonian
Institution is called on to furnish lists of suitable foreign recipients
for the publications just referred to, or the volumes are sent in bulk,
to be addressed here. After the first sending, the exchange is usually
more directly between the parties corresponding, the Institution pre-
ferring to have the parcels properly addressed before forwarding to
Washington. In all cases great care is taken to secure the credit of
the donation to the proper party, and to prevent it being supposed to
come directly from the Institution.

To facilitate the selection of suitable recipients for donations or ex-
changes, the Institution publishes once in two years a carefully pre-
pared list of foreign institutions for general distribution. The last
one issued contains over 570 names, but manuscript additions bring
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

the number up to about 700. The list of individuals is nearly as large
as that of institutions.

To facilitate the selection of recipients for particular works, of which
a limited number of copies only may be available for distribution,
classified lists of institutions are kept, as of academies of science gene-
rally, and of societies devoted to special subjects, as geography, ge-
ology, zoology, botany, ethnology, statistics, &c., and these are ar-
ranged from No. t upwards, in the order of relative importance, or of
equable distribution among the centres of learning; thus six copies of
any work on hand would be assigned to the first six names on the list
of institutions most interested in it.

The parcels, as reccived from the different portions of North Amer-
ica, are placed, after being addressed, (if not so already,) in their ap-
propriate receptacles, and the list entered specifically in a record book.
To facilitate such entry, a detailed invoice of each transmission is re-
quired, and the failure to furnish it puts the institution to the great
trouble of making it from the books themselves.

When the parcels have all been received, a list of the different do-
nors is printed, together with the titles of the various works which
the institution has for distribution at the time. On the day assigned
for commencing the labor of making up the packages, the binns are
emptied successively, the contents arranged carefully on the counters,
so as to bring everything for one address together, the Smithsonian
donations are added, and each particular piece is checked off in the
printed blank just referred to. This rough invoice is numbered and
handed to the packers, who make up the volumes into one or more
bundles, and mark them with the number of the invoice, by which
means they are easily identified and labelled. When parcels or books
are addressed to individuals, these are usually inclosed in the bundles
of the societies to which they belong, the number and addresses of
such sub-packages being marked on the rough invoices. A correct copy
is made of these lists, and forwarded by mail or otherwise to the par-
ties, in which is also stated the nature and time of the transmission.
These invoices are finally posted, to the debit of the party addressed,
in a large ledger, which shows what each has had, and what return
has been made to the Institution. The record of each package is,
therefore, made four times.

In sending the invoice of the package for each address, a circular
is added explaining the objects of the transmission, and the conditions
on which the exchange will be continued.

The time occupied in invoicing and making up the packages varies
with the occasion, although a month is usually required to finish the
work. After the bundles are all made up, those for each agent are
brought into one heap, and they are then packed into boxes, a check
list being kept of the numbers placed in each box.

There are three principal agents in Europe who have charge of the
Smithsonian exchanges in their respective regions: Dr. Felix Fliigel,
resident in Leipsic, has charge of continental Europe, with the ex-
ception of France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, (which are supplied by
Hector Bossange, of Paris,) and of Greece and Turkey. Henry
Stevens, of London, is agent for Great Britain and Ireland. Greece
46 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

and Turkey are usually reached through the American minister at
Constantinople and the consul at Alexandria. Most of the points in
Asia and Africa are supplied through the Presbyterian Board of For-
eign ‘Missions in New York, and the American Board in Boston,
Australia through Mr. I. W. Raymond, of New York, and South
America through a variety of channels.

The boxes for the agents above mentioned, containing the different
parcels, are then sent from the Institution ; those for Dr. Fligel being
shipped from Baltimore, through Oelrichs & Liirman, direct to Bre-
men, thence by railroad to Leipsic. The boxes for Messrs. Bossange
and Stevens are shipped by packet froin New York.

The governments of Europe to whose ports shipments are made by
the Institution have all authorized their admission free of duty, on
filing an invoice with the customs authorities some time in advance of
the arrival of the boxes. After being received by the agents, these
boxes are unpacked, and the different parcels distributed to their desti-
nation through the channels selected by the intended recipients, accom-
panied by circular advices from the agents. In Germany the parcels
are usually transmitted through the booksellers of Leipsic, as they
may have occasion to send to correspondents in the various towns.

Hechanges from foreign countries for America.—The system of ope-
rations in this case is similar in principle to that just described,
although the steps take placein inverse order. The packages are sent
to the agents of the Institution, who inclose them in boxes, which are
forwarded monthly, or oftener. On being received in Washington
they are unpacked, an entry made of their contents, and the parcels
placed temporarily in the binns assigned to their respective addresses.
They are then assorted, those for each party made up into one bundle,
and thus forwarded, by express or otherwise, accompanied by a blank
receipt, which is to be signed and returned.

MUSEUM.
A.—ZIncrease of the Museum.

The collections in natural history received during the year 1857
have been of great extent, and embrace many important additions to
the material on hand for extending the knowledge of the animal,
vegetable, and mineral productions of America. The specimens
received have been from the usual variety of sources; the most im-
portant being, as heretofore, those brought in by the different govern-
ment expeditions, as follows: ;

1. Survey of the northwestern boundary line, Archibald Campbell,
esq., commissioner.—The expedition left in April, 1857, for Puget
Sound, and during the year had its main camp for the most part at
Simeahmoo bay, near the mouth of Frazer’s river.. Large collections
of the animals and plants of the Sound have been made by Dr. Ken-
nerly, surgeon and naturalist of the expedition; and of minerals and
fossils by Mr. George Gibbs, the geologist.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 4T

2. Exploration of the Black Hills and Loup Fork, under Lieutenant
G. K. Warren, U. S. _A.—Lieutenant Warren made his third visit to
the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone region, accompanied, as on pre-
vious expeditions, by Dr. Hayden as geologist and naturalist. Very
large collections in all branches of natural history were made and
brought home, tending, in great measure, to complete our knowledge
of the distribution of species over the high plains of the west.

3. Wagen road to Bridger’s Pass, under Lieutenant I’. T. Bryan, U.
§8. A.— During his second year’s work on this road to Utah Territory,
Lieutenant Bryan, as before, was accompanied by Mr. Wm. 8. Wood,
who continued and completed the collections of the preceding year, in
securing many species not previously obtained. Dr. Wm. A. Ham-
mond, U. 8. A., who accompanied the party as surgeon, also made a
separate and independent collection of much interest, not only on the
route, but while stationed at Fort Riley. In this he was for a time
assisted by Mr. J. Xantus de Vesey.

4. Wagon road to California via South Pass, under Wm. M. Ma-
graw.—This party, accompanied by Dr. James G. Cooper, as surgeon
and naturalist, aided by C. Drexler, reached Fort Laramie during the
autumn. The collections in all departments were large and import-
ant, and were accompanied by copious notes on the species observed.

5. Survey of the southern boundary of Kansas, under Lieutenant
Colonel Johnston, U. S. A.—A valuable collection of specimens in
alcohol was made during the survey by J. H. Clark, esq., astron-
omer of the expedition.

6. Survey of the Isthmus of Darien, under Lieutenant N. Michler, U.
S. A.—This expedition, accompanied by Mr. A. Schott and Messrs.
Wm. 8. and Charles Wood, sailed for Carthagena in October, pro-
ceeding thence to the isthmus. While at Carthagena a collection of
birds and shells was made and sent to Washington, and others are on
their way.

Among government expeditions fitted out in 1857, but from which
no collections have yet been received, are the following:

7. Wagon road route to California via El Paso and Fort Yuma,
under Colonel Leech.—This expedition was accompanied by Dr. McCay
and Mr. Hays, both of whom were prepared to make collections in
natural history.

8. Exploration of the La Plata and its tributaries, under Captain
Page, U. S.N.—Christopher Wood doing duty as zoological collector.

9. Artesian well expedition, on the Llano Estacado, under Captain
Pope, U. S, A.—This is the third expedition to the sterile regions of
western Texas, conducted by Captain Pope.
48 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

10. ELxploration of the Colorado river, under Lieutenant J. C. Ives.
This expedition started in September, accompanied by Dr. J. S.
Newberry, surgeon and geologist, and H. B. Méllhausen, artist and -
zoologist. Several collections made by these gentlemen about San
Diego are on their way, but have not yet been received.

The more important private explorations from which specimens
have been received are as follows:

11. Region around Fort Tejon, California, by J. Xantus de Vesey.—
The collections made by Mr. Vesey will compare favorably with any
obtained under government auspices, and embrace complete series of
the animals and plants of the vicinity of Fort Tejon, as far as met
with ; they also include quite a number of new species.

12. Southern Illinois and Northern Red river, by Rk. Kennicott.—Mr.
Kennicott, under a commission from the Northwestern University, at
Evanston, Ulinois, to procure for its museum a collection of specimens
of the natural history of the northwest, visited southern [linois in the
spring, and after exploring the vicinity of Cairo and New Madrid
for several months, proceeded to the Red river of the North, within
the British possessions, and nearly to Lake Winipeg. The collections
made cover all branches of zoology.

13. Coast of Florida, by G. Wurdemann, United States Coast
Survey.—Mr. Wurdemann’s collections were in continuation of those
of previous years, and included a great variety of species, among them
several birds new to the fauna of the United States.

14. Red river of the North and of Nelson’s river, H. B. Territory,
by Donald Gunn, esqg.—A large collection of birds and mammals made
in these regions by Mr. Gunn, assisted by Mr. John Isbister, have
added much to our knowledge of the distribution of species.

A collection of about 150 species of birds of Arctic America, Mexico,
and Guatemala, presented by John Gould, esq., of London, has fur-
nished very important data for comparison and determination of species
of the United States.

Of the numerous other collections made it is impossible to give an
account here. The detailed list of contributions and donations will,
however, furnish additional information on the subject.

In conclusion it may be proper to state, that of the government expe-
ditions mentioned above, that under Mr. Campbell was organized by
the State Department ; those under Lieutenant Warren, Lieutenant
Bryan, Colonel Johnston, Captain Pope, and Lieutenant Ives, by the
War Department ; those under Mr. Magraw and Mr. Leech, by the De-
partment of the Interior; and those under Captain Page and Lieu-
tenant Michler, by the Navy Department.

In the reception of collections trom the California coast, the Institu-
tion is ander great obligations to the California Mail Steamship
Line, composed of the United States Mail Steamship Company, the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49

Panama Railroad Company, and the Pacific Steamship Company, as
also to Messrs. Wells, Fargo, Co., for free transportation of very many
boxes and packages. The expense of what has been thus received, if
charged for at the usual rate, would have been entirely beyond the
means of the Institution, and if in an unprecedentedly short time our
knowledge of the natural history of California has been carried to a
point fully equal to that of any of the older States, it is unquestionably
owing in very great measure to the liberality of the companies above
mentioned in so generously seconding the efforts of the Institution.

The following table exhibits the additions made to the vecord books of the
museum in 1857, in continuation of previous years :

1851. 1852. 1853. 1854. | 1855. 1856. | 1857.
Con a a None 114 198} 351] 1,200] 2,046) 3,200
VEL og et RN lle eh eee 4 BABB tie 8 lee Bey | 4,353 | 4,425] 5,855 | 8,766
Skeletons and skulls. . 911 1,074 1,190 1,275 2,050 | 3,060; 3,340
entitles. Bost -u2ue janeons Co peU AL qe el ee < ato tefl Bol ae 106 239
Lh ee Se eres | Se ee a as ete erate jae ee Ste eee 155 | 613

Present condition of the museum.

The remarks in the last annual report of the Institution in relation
to the richness and extent of its collections are strengthened by the
additions of the past year, and they are confidently believed to be
beyond competition in the field of American zoology. The precise
statistics cannot now be given for the different classes and orders, as
the cataloguing is not yet completed. In one department, however,
some idea of the facts may be realized by the statement, that on the
first of July, 1857, the Institution possessed—

Species.
Of skins or alcoholic specimens of North American mammals.......eeeese ecoe 205
Of skins or alcoholic specimens of South American mammals...+-..eseeeeeees 18
Of skins or alcoholic specimens of European mammals.......+ cecsccce coeee 60

— 283
Of skulls or skeletons of North American mammals...ceessceeeseerece ecrcccee 221
Of skulls or skeletons of South American mammals.....ceescceccersecccereseee 17
Of skulls or skeletons of European mammals. ......ceeeseccsceccereccccres see 48

— 2&6

This was entirely exclusive of Cetacea, Pinnipedia, Cheiroptera and
Quadrumana, of which there were many species. Since the first of
July, the number of species of all orders has received a large increase.
The species of North American mammals in the museum of the In-
stitution, not mentioned in the great work of Audubon and Bachman,
exceeds 80. Of birds, the North American species are believed to ex-
ceed 600; of reptiles, 400; of fishes, probably 800 or more. As all
these classes are in process of elaboration, accurate statistics can
probably be presented in the next report.

As
50 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Work done in the museum.

The systematic registration of the Smithsonian collections has been
carried on as rapidly as other duties would admit. The number of
species labeled and entered during the year amounted to 5,271; most
of them in three different series of records, making nearly 15,000 entries.
It may be proper to state that all collections, as received, are entered in
a general record book, of which the alphabetical list of donations ap-
pended to this report is a transcript. The different specimens are
next labeled and then entered on the record for the class, or particular
order, and from this posted in a ledger consisting of separate sheets,
one for each species, systematically arranged, and each sheet contain-
ing an enumeration of all the specimens of its species, with the lo-
calities, sex, date, measurements and other memoranda, making the
third time of writing out the name and statistics. In this way not
only can information be obtained of the number of species of each class
or order, but also of the separate specimens, with the locality and gen-
eral character of each one. The posting up is complete for the mam-
mals, birds, and osteoclogical specimens, and well under way for the
reptiles and fishes, and some orders of invertebrates.

During the past year the general report on the mammals of the
Smithsonian collection has been completed and printed, forming volume
VIII of the Report of the Pacific Railroad Survey. That on the birds
is far advanced, and will be finished in the course of the ensuing
year, which will also, it is hoped, witness the completion of reports
on the reptiles and fishes.

Distribution and use of the Smithsonian collections.

As in previous years, the Smithsonian specimens have been freely
used by students and investigators in natural history, in preparation
of Monographs and other researches. Duplicates have also been dis-
tributed to a considerable extent, and as the collections become better
arranged and other circumstances allow, it is hoped to make such
distribution on a very extensive scale,

Inst of Donations during the year 1857.

C. Bellmann.—Fishes, &c., in alcohol, from Mississippi.

J.and A. Brakeley.—Fresh deer and otter from Virginia; jar of birds,
mammals and reptiles from the Alleghenies of Virginia.

J. Mason Brown.—Cast of the skull of Daniel Boone, taken previous
to the re-interment of his remains.

Lieutenant I’. T. Bryan, U. S. A.—Three boxes of zoological spe-
cimens collected by William 8. Wood on the wagon-road expedition
from Fort Riley to Bridger’s Pass.

Archibaid Campbell.—One box of dried skins, and one chest of alco-
holic specimens collected on Puget Sound by Dr. Kennerly, on the
northwest boundary survey. ;

J. H. Clark.—Chest with two cans filled with reptiles, fishes and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51

mammals in alcéhol; specimens of salt from the salt plains of the
Pewsa, on the southern boundary of Kansas.

Mr. Cook.—Copper ores from Arizona.

Dr. J. G. Cooper.—Collections made near Fort Laramie, and thence
to Independence ; four bottles of Salamanders from New Jersey ; one
hundred skins of birds from California and Washington Territory.

LL. Coulon.—Box of Swiss mammals.

Dr. 8S. Wylie Crawford, U. S. A.—Thirty-two jars of reptiles and
mammals from Texas and New Mexico.

Benjamin Cross.—Golden eagle in the flesh (length 36} inches ;
extent, 86 inches ; wing, 25 inches.)

J. P. Cunningham.—Box of Kaolin earth from Virginia.

John Day.—Snake from Virginia.

T. OC. Downie.—Coluber couperi and Geomys pinetis, in alcohol, from
Georgia.

CO. Drexler.—Skins of six birds and three mammals from near Phil-
adelphia.

Dr. J. Evans.—Ten boxes and one bundle of collections of geological
survey of Oregon; skins and skull of felis concolor (panther ;) six
skulls of Flathead Indians, from Oregon.

James Fairie.—25 skins of Lepus aquaticus (marsh hare) and Sczurus
ludovicianus (Fox squirrel;) birds, reptiles in alcohol, from Louisiana.

A, B. Forbes.—Viviparous fish (Hnnichthys megalops) from Cal-
ifornia.

Professor C. G. Forshey.—Cast skin of Scotophis, and skin of mouse,
from Texas; specimens of supposed equine fossil foot-marks ; jar of
alcoholic specimens ; skins of serpents; dried plants ; skin of Ocelot
and of Raccoons from Fayette county, Texas.

W. H. Gantt, M. D.—Infusorial earth from Texas.

O. E. Garrison.—Six packages Infusorial earth ; skins of Putorius
richardsonit and Spermophilus 13-lineatus from Minnesota.

Dr. W. Gesner.—Jar of Geomys pinetis and Arvicola ; mammals
and reptiles in alcohol; two jars of mammals from Georgia.

George Gibbs.—Box and barrel containing skeleton of large shark,
from Port Townsend, W. T.; keg of fishes, from Puget Sound; keg
‘of fishes from Columbia river.

Dr. J. B. Gilpin.—Skins of mammals from Nova Scotia; fifteen
skins of Putorius and Sciurus from Labrador and Nova Scotia; jar
with 12 mammals, in alcohol, from Nova Scotia.

W. R. Goodman.—Diatomaceous earth from Anne Arundel county,
Maryland.

John Gould.—160 skins of birds of Mexico and Guatemala; skins
of humming birds, (Campylopterus delattrii, Trochilus heteropogon and
Eriopus lucvani;) skins of Apternus hirsutus and arcticus.

Donald Gunn.—Skins of mammals and birds; skeletons; speci-
mens in alcohol from Red river. Skeletons of male and female
wolverine from Red river, H. B. T.

Dr. W. A. Hammond, U.S, A.—Box of skins of birds and mam-
mals from Kansas. Chest and two cans of zoological specimens

collected during Lieut. Bryan’s wagon-road expedition to Bridger’s
Pass.
52 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Dr, W. A. Hammond and J. X. de Vesey.—Skins of twenty-four
birds and of two prairie wolves from Kansas.

Dr. EL. W. Harker.—Skin of Salamander (Geomys pinetis?) from
Georgia.

F. V. Hayden.—Six boxes of fossils collected in the Upper Mis-
souri prior to 1856.

C. J, Heistand.—Specimens in alcohol of squirrels, moles, &c.,
from Pennsylvania.

— Dr. BE. W. Hilgard.—Specimen of Carocolla from Spain.

John S. Hittel—Human skulls and bones encrusted in stalagmite,
from a cave in Calaveras county, Cal.

Col. Hoffman, U. 8S. A.—Concretions from Cannon-Ball river, Ne-
braska.

B. A, Hoopes.—Can of Menobranchus and small mammals from
Lake Superior.

Robert Howell.—Two cans of mammals, in alcohol, from Tioga
county, N. Y.

Lieut. J. C. Ives, U. 8S. A.—F¥ossil Dendrechinus excentricus, Point
Lobas, Cal.; miscellaneous fossils from California; fossils from
Gatun, N. G.—all collected by Dr. J. 8. Newberry.

Dr. R. W. Jeffrey, U. S. N.—Collection of fishes of Norfolk.

Col. EL. B, Jewett.—Reptiles from Texas.

Dr. C. B. Kennerly.—Jar of mammals in alcohol, and skins of
Sciurus cinereus, from Clark county, Va.

Robt. Kennicott.—Six boxes zoological collections made in southern
Illinois, and in Minnesota to Lake Winipeg. (Deposited.) Gopher
(Geomys bursarius) from Illinois; thirty skins of Arvicola and Sorex
from Illinois ; two living squirrels, (Sciwrus ludovicianus.)

Major Jno, Leconte.—Astacus latimanus from Georgia.

J. MacMinn.-—Skins of five mammals from Pennsylvania.

Wm. M. Magraw.—Box of skins of birds and mammals; plants
from Independence; three boxes zoological collections, plants, &c.,
gathered between Fort Leavenworth and Fort Laramie during the
South Pass wagon-road expedition. Collected by Dr. J. G. Cooper.

Geo. P. Marsh.—Minerals from Europe.

C. C. Martin.—Keg of reptiles, fish and mammals, from Pennsyl-
vania and New York.

W. Massenburn.—Collections of serpents and crustacea from Florida,

Maximilian Prinz Von Wied.—Wild boar (Sus scrofa) from Ger-
many, and skins of chamois (Capella rupricapra) and of female ibex
(Capra ibex) from Mont Blanc.

Dr. HE. Michener.—Mounted original of Emberiza townsendiu. (De-
posited.)

D. Miller, jr.—Thirty small mammals, in alcohol, from Pennsyl-
vania,

Robt. O. Milton.—Box of fossils from Michigan.

H. B, Méllhausen.—Skin of head and skull, with horns, of Eu-
ropean stag, (Cervus elaphus.)

W. E. Moore.—Skins of monkeys from Bolivia

Henry Moores.—Star fishes from California, (Deposited.)
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53

H. WM. Neisler.—Shells, reptiles, fishes, &c., in alcohol, from
Georgia.

Dr. J. S. Newberry.—Box of shells, Acapulco ; specimens of coals

from Ohio.

New Orleans Academy of Sciences.—Skin of pouched rat (Geomys
pinetis) from Florida.

B. M. Norman.—Three living turtles from New Orleans, (Zmy
mobilensis ?)

B. F. Odell.—Mammals and reptiles from near Lake Winnibigosh- -
ish, Minnesota.

John Oliphant.—Falco sparverius, in flesh, from Maryland.

Capt. T. J. Page, U. S. N.—Two packages of maté and six bottles
of water from the Rio Negro and Mato Grosso.

Dr. D. W. C. Peters.—Skins, birds, and mammals; reptiles and
fishes, in alcohol, from New Mexico.

Thos. M. Peters.—Bottle of reptiles; skin of Abastor erythrogram-
mus from Alabama.

Prof. Poey.—Two living Emys decussata; living boa or maja,
(Epicrates angulifer ;) collection of reptiles, in alcohol, from Cuba.

J. P. Postell.—Two living Gophers, (Zestudo polyphemus ;) skull
of Geomys pinetis ; box of shells, and other invertebrata, from Georgia.

John Potts.—Skins of Bassaris astuta, Putorius frenatus and Didel-
phys californica, from tue city of Mexico.

Francis B. Ray.—Bottle containing Ophibolus eximius from Mis-
souri.

E. Raymond.—Fossil wood from Neuse river, North Carolina.

J. W. Raymond.—Skin of white raccoon from North Carolina, and
of Bassaris astuta from California.

Peter Reid.—Fresh water sponge, in alcohol, from near Lake
Champlain.

Rev. Jos. Rowell.—Monkeys and other mammals, fishes, &c., in
alcohol.

H. de Saussure.—Four bats, Sorex alpinus, Myoxus glis, Mus sylvati-
cus, and musculus, and Arvicola nivalis from the St. Gothard, Switzer-
land ; other small mammals of Switzerland.

S. H. Scudder.—Can of mammals, in alcohol; box of insects from
Massachusetts.

Lieut. Semmes, U. S. N.—Syenite from North Greenland.

J. D. Sergeant.—Jar of mammals from Pennsylvania.

James Shoemaker.—Snakes and fishes from Roanoke county, Va.

Col. Wm. B. Slaughter.—Peat from Wisconsin.

J. Stauffer.—Can of mammals, in alcohol, from Pennsylvania.

J. J. Steenstrup, Director of Zoological Museum, Copenhagen.—Six
jars of invertebrates from Greenland

J. H. Sternberg.—Four turtles ; two boxes of shells, and of reptiles
and invertebrates, in alcohol; box of living plants from Isthmus of
Panama.

William Stimpson.—Two kegs and numerous jars of marine inver-
tebrates and fishes from Massachusetts; living marine animals for
aquarium.

Dr. George Suckley.—Hunters’ skin of elk and of mountain goat,
54 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Aplocerus montanus, from Washington Territory; box of birds from
California; skins of mammals, birds; fishes, shells, minerals, and
Indian relics, from Washington Territory; box with skins of mam-
mals and birds; plants, &c., from Steilacoom ; box of birds, shells,
&c., Port Townsend.

A. S. Taylor.—Jar of vertebrates and crabs from California; Cali-
fornia minerals.

Mr. Tufts. —Uiving actinia and other marine animals for aquarium.

Colonel A. Vaughan.—Skins of Vespertilio noctivagans and novebo-
racensis from Yellowstone river.

J, X. de Vesey and Dr. W. A. Hammond, U. S. A.—Skins of birds
and mammals from Kansas.

Dr. DS. Wall, U. S. A. Skull of Indian and fragments of pot-
tery from a mound near Fort Capron, Florida; skins of birds; skin
of manatee, or sea-cow, and of Lynx; also two birds from Florida,

William D. Wallach. —Copper ores and native copper from Bay-
field, Wisconsin.

Robert B, Waller.—Bottle of Cyprinodonts from Alabama.

Ineutenant G. K. Warren.—Two boxes fossils from Blackbird Hill,
collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden; collections made by Dr. F. V. Hay-
den during the exploration of the Black hills in 1857, consisting of 5
boxes zoological specimens; 21 boxes fossils and plants, &ec.

C. W. Welch.—Troupial (Icterus vulgaris) from Laguayra.

D. Welch.—Menobranchus maculatus from Lake Champlain.

Samuel Wheat.—lLiving black snake (Scotophis allegheniensis) from
Ohio.

Mr. Wheeler.—Storeria dekayi from Washington.

Thomas Whelpley —Ffossils from Michigan.

Dr, D, D. Whitehurst.—Box of specimens and cask of fishes, &c.,
in alcohol, from Gulf of Mexico; specimens of fishes (crustacea) from
Tortugas.

Dr. S. W. Wilson.—Four living alligators from Georgia ; skeleton
and skins of otter and deer; skins of Lepus palustris ; 24 small mam-
mals, in alcohol, from Georgia.

Dr. C. F. Winslow.—Box of lavas from Sandwich Islands; fossil
bones from California. (Deposited.)

W. 8S. Wood.—Bald eagle, Haliaetus leucocephalus, mounted ; mam-
mals, in alcohol, from Philadelphia.

C. Wright.—Jar mammals and reptiles from Connecticut ; fishes
from Cuba, said to be viviparous ; jars of reptiles, fishes, and inver-
tebrates from Cuba.

G. Wiirdemann.—Box of invertebrates and skins of birds from In-
dian Key, Florida; box of bird skins from south Florida; box of
birds, crustacea, corals, &c., from Key Biscayne, Florida.

Tue Younglove. —Bottle of blind fish, (Amblyopsis,) taken in a well
in Bowling Green, Kentucky.

Unknown.—Box iron ores, St. Louis, Missouri.

Hesperomys cognatus, in alcohol.
Hammerhead shark from Norfolk.
Living raccoon and great horned owl.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

55

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS

FOR THE YEAR 1857.

BRITISH AMERICA.

Name of observer. Station. N. lat. |W. long.| Height
Qa 7 1) i Fee.
Bakers ¢ Os. Sscu hase ac -- Stanbridge, Canada Hast....-- 45 08 | 73 00
Grape rs W Sih ones aes Hamilton, Canada West.-...- 43,15. |) 79-5
Delany, jrv; John .-=-.:==- Colonial Building, St. John’s,| 47 35 52 38
Newfoundland.
Gunn) Donald fs. 26 2s 22 Red river Settlement, Hudson’s} 50 06 | 97 00 853
Bay Territory.
alle Dr, Archibald). ..—=- Montreal, Canada East...-... 45 30 | 73 36 57
Hensley, Rev. J. M_-..---- King’s College, Windsor, Nova) 44 59 64 07 200
Scotia.
Magnetic Observatory------ Toronto, Canada West ------- 43 39°) 79 21 108
Smallwood, Dr. Charles--.-| St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada| 45 32 (Bair 118
Kast.
“SINZ)OC ty Pate EA pa Horton, Nova Scotia -......--| 45 06 | 64 25 95
MAINE.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long.| Height.
Or Ont? Feet.
pel sonny) 22% 24. ae2 Carmel -.c8esc= Penobscot -.<.-- 44 47 | 69 00 175
Dang ow. 2) eeeacs3- Peryissseceeees Washington ----| 45 00) 67 06 100
Gardiner, R, H.=...2- Gardiner ...<=<- Kennebec)..22te 44 11| 69 46 90
Gupull, GYwW-=-. 22s. Comishville,s242|)/ Mork spa se=— 43 40 | 70 44 | 800
Barker, J.) 2 25-\-24. Steuben'.--24<2 Washington ....| 44 44 | 67 58 50
West, puas!2s) 2222.5 Oomishess2. 422 Morks osaeeeens 43 40 | 170 44 | 784
Walker Henry 225552 Portland: Ss 3-222 Cumberland ..--| 43 39 | 70 15 | 87
Wilbur, Benj. F....-- Monson). 5. - = - Piscataquis ..--- 43 11 69 35
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Bell, Samuel N-.....- Manchester--.--- Hillsborough.-..| 42 59 | 71 28 | 300
Ji tod 0 7ee/: a & ees oe Francestown..--| Hillsborough -.-| 42 59 | 71 45 |
Brown, B. Gould - ---- Stratford .....-- OOOS82 22a atau 2 4408; 71 34 1,000
Freeman, F. N._----- Claremont.....- Sullivaneise2 2 43 29 72 22 | 535
Hanscam, R. F_....-- North Barnstead_| Belknap...-..-- AS 2Be PL Bye |
Mackie Onsen oa. Londonderry----} Rockingham_..-| 42 53 | 71 20 |
Odell, Fletcher.....-.-. Shelburn-- =~... Coosseeeeesece 44 23 71 06 700
Prescott, Dr. Wm ---.| Concord....-.-- Mermmaci 2 == 43 12 71 29 | 374
Purmort, Nath......- West Enfield..--| Grafton ........ 43 30 | 72 00 |
Root, Dr. Martin N.--| Francestown..--.| Hillsborough---- 300} 71 46 |
Great Falls ----. Strafford ......- ASPs |. 0.52
ahi E...| Concord]. lees Merrimack... --- 43 12 | 71 20 |

56

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

VERMONT.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long. | Height.
Qe! Onn Feet.
Bliss iGeorreses=..- - Shelburn see Chittenden _...- 44 23 | 73 00 150
Bliss vir Witenes. oes West Fairlee__--| Orange......... | 43 55 | 72 15
Buckland, David .-...- Brandongesseee = Rutlands==ess 2. 43 45 73 00
Fairbanks, Franklin ..| St. Johnsbury..-| Caledonia ....--! 44 25 |} 72 00 540
Marsh, Charles..._..- Woodstock ..... Windsor 5222=<c 43 36 72 35 716
spycam ary Ate ys eae Norwich, 222 soa2 Wan dSonroceseers 43 42 72 20
Paddock, James A-...| Craftsbury...-.- Orleanpysoeese- | 44 40] 72 30 1,100
banker, Josenhij-os25- Rapeniee es seca Bennington. .... eee 15 fey Aut 750
Petty; McKi2 204. ee] eburnling ton] ss Chittenden .-...| 44 29 Uejedidl 346
.
MASSACHUSETTS.
Bacon, William ...... Richmond <--4-~|} Berkshire 2.2... 42 23} 73 20 1,190
Bonde Prota Were oee Cambridge._.... Middlesex ...... 42,22 | 71 UT 71
Brooks, John ......-- Princeton 2..--- Worcester ....- NO 42 285), Tl Gone weLLs
Daring! Arse ees Bridgewater -.--{ Plymouth .....- 42 00 | 71 00 142
Davis, Rev. Emerson_-| Westfield......- Hampden ...... 42 06 | 72 48
1 SIGS Be 1 Rees se ae @antonssee= ence Nornollata=.=2- 42 12 71 08 | 90
allan hones a= se Lawrence......- issexce ee ee 2 ee 42 42 Cie din 35
Holcomb, Amasa....- Southwick .~....- Hampden..=.=.- 42 02 | 72 10 265
i pe oletede "7777 | | Williamstown...) Berkshire....... 42 43| 73 13 720
Metcalf, Jno. G., M. D.; Mendon -...---- Worcester -....- 42 06 12, 33
Mitchell, Hon. Wm... | Nantucket....-. Nantucket ..... 41 16 70 06 30
Perking) Dre HeiCre ee Newbunyponh sos) Hssexeseoese. 42 47 | 70 52 46
HieewHenty sss. se North Attleboro’.} Bristol .--...... AL 59°) 71 22 175
Rodman, Samuel .._-- New Bedford==—=|| Brstolisss-c2 >= 41 39 70 56 90
Sargent, John S22... 2 Worcester .....- Worcester. .-- 22 42 16 71 48 | 536
Schlegel, Albert....._ Taunton) Seo ce. Bristol ose sess. 41 49 | 71 09
Shaw, Francis..--...- Plainfield......- Hampshire ..... 42 30 | 72 56 |
Snaith: oH see ae IBOStOnme see eee UO KE ce see 42 22) ©7103
sell, Prot gmises2 5+ — Amberst...222 2323 Hampshire .---- 42 22 | 72 34 267
Tirrell, Dr. N. Quincy. | Weymouth ...-- INonole sue saat 42 10] 71 00 150
Whitcomb, L. F...--- Hlorida, ss2auue2 Berkshire ...... 42 42 3 10 2,500
RHODE ISLAND.
Caswell, Prof. A_...-- Providence ..... Providence ....- 41 49 71 25 120
CONNECTICUT.
Edwards, Rev. T., D.D.| New London..-.. New London....| 41 21 72 12 90
Harrison, Benj. F..-.. Wallingford -.... New Haven.--.- 41 26 72 50 133
oll; Aaron Bees. oo Georgetown -=<_| Hairfield’ 22. 222- 41 15 73 00 300
Hunt Dae eee iPomifret= so. 2 =< | "Wanda 22 oo. 5 41 52 ae, 596
Rankin, James...-..- Saybrook .....-- ' Middlesex -....- £118 || “72 20 10
Scholfield Noses. — === INOEWICH Soa .525 New London....| 41 32 | 72 03 50
Yeomans, William H.-| Columbia._._._- fe holl and ee sree 41 42 | 72 16
|

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 57

NEW YORK.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long. | Height.
Oy 7 oP Feet.
Biba Dri Bi Mes’. . 22. Angelica... sss Alleghany . -.--| 42 15 | 78 01 1,500
Arden, Thomas B.--.-- RE VETLY) < cetee Rutmam: 2 s2ees- 41 22 72 12 180
Bowman, John..-....-. Baldwinsville .-.| Onondaga --..-- 43 04 | 76 41
Byram, Ephraim N~. --| Sag Harbor. ---- Suffolk. 2-322 33 41 00 | 72 20 40
Chickering, J. W-..-.-- OV at; Eee eee SENCCA-<=seaeee 42 41] 76 52 800
Dayton, \HcA~ =. ==. Madridin ss 226. St. Lawrence....| 44 43 | .75 33 280
Denning, William H--| Fishkill Landing.| Dutchess -.....- 41 34 | 74 18 42
Mer Cae ell f Rochester’. cae. Monroe oes eae 43 08 | 77 51 516
Fellows, Henry B-.-.- Sennett -..-...-- Cay a aso Se 3) 00) |) iiees
Erench, John R.....- Wexicog=2— 25: Oswero'g == 55 --< 43 27 | 76 14 423
ATOPTON hss oa 2 wet Westfarms._...- Westchester --.-| 40 53 74 O1 150
Greene, Prof. Dascom..| Troy..........- Rensselaer... =. - 42 44 | 73 3 58
Geaest-(Wphl 42). 22. Ogdensburgh . _.| St. Lawrence--.-| 44 43 | 75 26
House, J. Carroll.....- Lowville. .....- Lewis! so te 43 46 | 75 38
House, John. C. .....- Waterford . ....| Saratoga ......- 42 47 73 39
Mawell Rs. -=-..<2, Nicholls....-_-. NOE = tg 3 42 00 | 76 32 *
Ingalls, S. Marshall...) Pompey - -.-... Onondaga -..... 42 56 76 05 1,745
Johnson, E. W.....-. Canton . -ze42 St. Lawrence....| 44 38 fa15 304
Landon, Anna §...... Biden 27355 ooo 4 WEIe 2 2 42 30 79 07 700
Lefferts, John.-...... 1sy3 ee ae Seneca = oo. cee 42 37 76. 53 1,000
Malcolm, Wm. S----- Oswero — —- eco Osyrero\ =... sa. 43 28 | 77 34 232
Morehouse, A. W-_---- Spencertown . -.| Columbia...-_-. 42 19 | 73 41 800
Morris, Prof. 0. W.-.-| New York-..... News York. - = 40 43 74 05 159
WGEDON: Jegela es o5 . Soe Plainville) £0 Onondaga .....- 43 00 (it fem is
iFaine. He N., MD) o=.|) Clinton. .ss6- Oneida~ 47 ee 43 00 | 75 20 500
Pernot, Prof. Claudius.| Fordham ...---- Westchester _...| 40 54 74 03 147
Reed, Edwar.l C.....- Homer. socsene4 Cortland: 22225. 42 3 76 11 1,100
neds Peter: -a-.ccam Waals anaes Washington.....| 43°15 | 73 33
Riker, Walter H_-..-- Saratoga ...--.- Saratoga ....... 43 06 | 74 00 960
Sanger, Dr. W. W..--- Blackwell’s Isl’d.| New York_----- 40 45 | 73 57 29
Sartwell, Dr. H. P....| Penn Yan...<=; R01) 2 ee 42 42 (ree Aa! 740
Dbecrsr Hey Mie oi 2s Wellsville . ....| Alleghany -..... 42 07 78 06 1,480
Sias, Prof. Solomon..-.| Fort Edward....| Washington --..| 43 13 73 42
Smith, J. Metcalf. .... McGrawville....| Cortland ....... 42 34 76 11 1, 450
Spooner, Stillman ....| Wampsville..._.| Madison.......- 43 04 75 50 500
Taylors sos. W......- Plattsburgh... .. Chintone= 2254 2s6 44 40 73 26 156
Titus, Henry Wm.---| Bellport ....-..- Sufolkis=ss=2""" 40 44 | 72 54
ourrelione re hy A -|\ Utes, <2 22. 2-22 Graz Ne 43 07 75.05 500
Van Kleek, Rev. R..D_| Flatbush-.......| Kimgs.........- 40 37 74 O1 54
White, Aaron. = == Cazenovia ~....- Madison 22 -— 2--- 42 55 75 46 1, 260
Williams, Dr. P. O._-_}| Watertown ____. Jefferson ..--..- 43 56 75 55
Wilson, Rev. W. D___-| Geneva -_-.__.- Ontario 2: 22222 42 53 77 02 567
Woodward, Lewis -...| West Concord_..| Erie .......---- 43 00 79 00 2,000
Yale, Walter D......- Houseville =fe2 =|) Lewis. <:2-2< 2222 43 40 15 32
Zaeptiiel, Tis.... «----| West Morrisania | Westchester ....| 40 53 74 01 150
NEW JERSEY.
Cooke, Robert L.----- Bloomfield >= - =| Hesse ee. 40 49 | 74 11 120
Schmidt, Dr. E. R-..-| Burlington .....| Burlington ....- 40 00 | 75 12 | 26
Sergeant, John T_..-- Sergeantsville.-.| Hunterdon ...-- 40 29 AR UE:
tee e eis t Kreehold:s2s- 2-2 Monmouth .....| 40 15 / 74 21
Whitehead, W. A....| Newark - ....-- ese ee ot 40 45 | 74 10 30

58 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

PENNSYLVANIA.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long.| Height.
oa rail Feet.
Brown, Samuel_.--.-- Bedford 22222 2= Bedtord 22.222" 40 01 78 30
Baird, Jonnie.) Tarentum _-...- Alleghany -..--- 40 37 79 19 950
Brickenstein, H. A----| Nazareth -. ---- Northampton .--| 40 43 |] 75 21
Brugger, Samuel .---- Hleming = sss" Centre: -.--=---- AO VSS | ioe 780
Coffin, Selden, J-.---- Hastoneecce se Northampton.--| 40 43 TOMLG 320
Comily; Johnoes--— 22 By beriye= see eae Philadelphia----| 40 06 | 74 58
Darlington, Fenelon --} Pocopson -- .--- Chester Sees 22 39) 547) 9°75 ST 218
Edwards, Joseph.--.-. Chromedale -..-| Deiaware.---.-- 39 55 75 25 196
Begert, John oo-5-<= Berwicksss2see. Columbia. -.-.-- 41 05 76 15 588
iniell: Pores sascha ee Shamokin ------ Northumberland.; 40 45 76 31 700
Hance, Ebenezer -.-.-- Morrisville 2. --- Buickssss222s2 05 40 12 74 53 30
Heisely, Dr. John ~.--| Harrisburg ----- Danphinesssec—— 40 16 | 76 50
ickoke Wee Oerecma Harrisburg ----- Dauphin 40 16 | 76 55
Hoffer, Mary H.------ Mount Joy --.-- laneaster-sess52 40 08 76 70
Jacobs, Rev. M.-.--.-- Gettysburg .---- Ndamsiasascesnc BOL eHiNS
James, Prof. Charles §..| Lewisburg --.--- Union 2222/5522 40 58 76 58
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A.| Philadelphia --.-| Philadelphia...) 39 57 UL 60
Kohler, Edward__.--- North Whitehall | Lehigh_--.-.---- 40 40 | 75 26 250
Martin, William------ Pitishurcesssoo 2 Alleghany.-.--. 40 3 80 00
Mowry, George.------ POMersetaee == Somersebeeese 40 02 79 02 2,180
Ralston, Rev. J. Grier-| Norristown ----- Montgomery..--| 40 08 oma 153
Schreiner, Francis ..-.| Moss Grove. ---- Crawiorda2s. fee 41 40 79 5L
Smith, Prof. Wm----- Canonsburg..--- Washington ----| 40 25] 80 07 936
Smyser, Rev. B. R..--| Pottsville.-__.-.- Schuylkill.----- 40 41 76 09
Stewart, Thos. B. ---.| Murrysville ...-- Westmoreland -.| 40 28 | 79 385 960
Swit Ds. eau sae West Haverford_| Delaware. .-.--- 40 00 75 21
Minekstime eh 2) Meadville ~....- Crawford! 2 41 39} 80 11 1,088
Walson, Prof: Wi. C222.) "Carlisles2222 22 2- Cumberland -.--| 40 12 Titer 500
Walson, We Wiese -ace Piutsbure sees oo Alleghany ------ 40 32 80 02 1,026
DELAWARE.

Pee ae eset | Newanle aves New Castle....- 39 38 | 75 47 120
Martins Are ..-—=- Milford) = ee eens See etnies 39) O55 Zia 25
MARYLAND.

Baer, Miss"H. M_.=322 Shellman Hills--} Carroll---.....- 39 23\) Gor 700

Cofrau Wy. Wasa. see Oakland! =)222= 22 Alleghany ...--- 39 40 | 79 00
Goodman, Wm. R-.--.-| Annapolis ------ Anne Arundel_--| 38 58 | 76 29 20
Hanshew, Henry E..--| Frederick ----.- Frederick -...-- 39 24 | 77 18
Lowndes, Benj. O-.---- Bladensburg -..-] Prince George---| 38 57 76 58
Mayer, Prof. Alfred_-.-} Baltimore -...-- baltimore = - .- =< 39 18 76 37
Pearce, James A., jr.--| Chestertown ....| Kent -........- 39 14 76 02
Stages DG ooweosen- Ridgessa--a¢ 226 St. Mary’s.....- 38 05 | 76 18
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Smithsonian Institu- | Washington ee Washington ----| 38 53 | 177 01 | 30

tion.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 59

VIRGINIA.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.| Height.
| le) ear 12 et | Feet
Astrop, Col. R. F. - --| Crichton’s Store.| Brunswick....-- 36 40 | 77 46 500
Couch, Samuel-_----.- Ashland ~~ 32<22- Rutnam, =) ase 3o).38 |. Sl bf
Dickinson, George C--| Rougemont ..-.. Albemarle - ...-| 38 05 | 78 21 450
millis, Col, 2D! Hi... 4t @rack Whip o.c|\Handy...5. 22282 39 30 | 78 31 1750
Fauntleroy, H. H.---- Montrose...---- Westmoreland --| 38 07 | 76 54 200
Fraser, James:----<-. Mustapha ....-.- Wood. sits 255 39 20 | 81 41
Hallowell, Benjamin --} Alexandria -..-. Alexandria ...-- 38 48 77 01 56
Hon, Josiah W---.2o- iWartiC: iz ssoae Winds 2. aaa 39 05 81 26
Hotchkiss, Jed......- Mossy Creek_..-| Augusta - ------ 38 20 79 05
Johnson, Enoch D.---| Sisterville ---.-- TVVET" 22 n = siete 39 34] 80 56 540
Kendall, James E .---} Charleston..--.-- Jefferson ......-| 38 20 81 21
Kownslar, Miss Ellen -| Berryville --..-- @lark.2> Ssees= 39 09°; 78 00 575
Marvin, John W..--.- Winchester .~.-.| Frederick .....- 39 15 78 10
Offutt, J. J., M. D--.-| Capon Bridge...| Hampshire --..- 39 16 | 78.29
Patton, Thomas, M. D.| Lewisburg------ Greenbrier ----- 38 00 | 80 00 2,000
Purdie.ohn. K-21 Smithfield...--- Isle of Wight.--| 36 50] 76 41 100
Ruftin, Julian C...-.- Ruthven)ssss..- Prince George-.-| 37 21] 77 33
Ruffner, David L_-..- Kanawha. -..-.-- Kanawhaesceenn 88 53 81 25
Slaven, James_...----- Meadow Dale .--| Highland .--.-- 38°23 | 79°35
Upshaw, George W.--| Rose Hill-.....- SSEX joy Ss syed 38 00 | 76 57 250
Webster, Prof. N B --.|} Portsmouth----. Nonfolk, je2eeee 386 50 76 19 34.
Wells, J. Carson--...- SAleMes aos ats Roanoke —s-<+i-- 39 20] 80 Ol 1,100
Wickline, Thomas J --| Longwood.-..-. Rockbridge ---.. aia. 30) | aida 800
NORTH CAROLINA.
Johnson, Dr. W. M-.--| Warrenton - wae Warren oo- o2 se 36 30 78 15
McDowell, Rey. A----| Murfreesboro’...| Hertford -.....- 36 30 77 06
MeDowell, W. W ..--| Asheville...-..- Buncombe-....- 35 37 | 82 29 2,250
Moore, Geo! F!; M. D-.| Gaston. .2.22--2 Northampton .--| 36 32 77 45
Morelle, Daniel... --- Goldshoro? + 223|) Waynesees a 22" SONEAO Raines
Phillips, Rev. Jas., D. D} Chapel Hill...-- Oranges. S22222 aD 64) 19° 17
SOUTH CAROLINA.
Cornish, ola eles a = AGO ys 35 oy sca Barnwell 22 226- 33 32 81 34 565
Dawson, John L., M. D.| Charleston.....- Charleston.....- '32 46] 80 00
Edisto Island .~--| Colleton....---- 32 34} 80 18 23
eee NM. Mount Pleasant -} Laurens_------- 32 47 | 79 55
Glennie, Rev. Alex’r..| Waccaman-.....- A Saints eee 33.40) 19.17 20
Johnson, Joseph, M. D | Charleston... -- Charleston.._.-- 32 46 | 80 00 30
NOUN a Aa. De Sole Cam dena son Kershaw) o-sace-ioe 17 ||, 80.33 275
GEHORGIA.
Anderson, Jas , M. D -| The Rock -.....- Wpsomy os. cee 32 52 | 84 23 833
ArmmoldeMrst ws Lees AG LON = lalate PRO yer rot ahs) 2a 33 07 84 26
Haste, Prof.,John D-.|,Athens ... .-2-\@lerke:_....=..- 33 58 83 80 850
GIDSOn hn econesone Whitemarsh Is’d.| Savannah ...... 32 04 | 81 05 18
60 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

GEORGIA—Continued.

ka
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.| Height.
ON Ce Feet.
Glover; MIS 25.222 Hillsboro? S25 2/52 Jasperteo. Jt Bose 33 U3" \- 183945 566
Haines, William.._..- AUGUStA,. <acsse Richmond . -...| 33 20 | 81 54 1,470
Pendleton, E. M.,M.D.| Sparta -.......- Haneock 222 5e2 33 17 | (83709 550
Rosey, Jobn f=. .=22. Pavannalal gece oe Chatham 222 222 32 05 81 07 42
Reid, James M 2....2- Philomath....-. Oglethorpe .----| 33 45 | 83 15
repeat aystoyahs 18). 4D, ae Factory Mills ...| Wilkes.....--.- 33 40 84 46
FLORIDA.
Bailey, James B._.--- Gainesville -__-. Alachuwese..-5* 29 35 82 26 184
Baldwin, A. G., M. D-| Jacksonville __..| Duval--.-....-. 30 30 82 00 13
Batchelder, F. L...--- EIDeRM ae =e eee Divas ess oa 2 30 15 81 30 15
Dennis, Wi. C) 22.22 Salt Ponds...--- Keys Wiest sos 24 33] 81 48
Fry, Joseph...-.---
Hester, Lieut. J. Pensacola eases. Bscampide-.. ee. 30 20 87 16 12
Wie URES aN sae
Ives, Edward R ....-- Allipatoreeee eee Columbia s22 ae SOP UZ) Boe. on 174
Mauran, P. B., M. D-.| St. Augustine.__| St. John’s..-..- 29 48 | 81 35 8
Steele, Judge Aug.-.-| Cedar Keys...-- heyy SSosesrsee8 29 07 3 02 12
Whitner, Benj. F...-- Belair eee s ee Heoniases2e 5.22 30 24 | 84 20 70
ALABAMA.
ATison, Ho gin MM. Dae iCarlowvilles sao- Dallas seesene2 32 10 Siglo | 300
Barker, Thomas M.-..-| Ashville - .....- St, Clair... a2her BB iy 86 20
Darby, Prot. John = 4>-|eAuburnja2e-cee- Macon 55-22 32 37 85 34 821
Tutwiler, Henry--.--- Greene Springs.-| Greene.......-- 32 50 | 87 46
Waller, Robert B. ~..-| Greensboro’. -_--- Greene _ = .22 Je 382 40°} 87 34 350
MISSISSIPPI.
|
Elliott, Prof. J. Boyd_-| Port Gibson_-~-- Claiborne #-.--- SL S098 rae. © on
Lull, James 822.2528 Columbus ....-- Rowntles 2/2025 33 30 | 88 29 | 227
|
LOUISIANA.
Barton, Driyh Ef; o— =| New Orleans-=—-|) Onleams 222 /c=-0 29 57 90 00
Kilpatrick, A. R., M. D.| Trinity---...-.. Chatahoula --_--- 31 30 | 91 46 108
Merrill, Edward, M.D.) Trinity.....-..- Chatahoulaees-= Bil Boll 91 47 68
57} 90) 00

Taylor, lewes BX=-<-- New Orleans--- .| Orleans! --e see 29
|

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

61

TEXAS.
*
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long! Height.
eae One! Feet.
A Goliadess 2s shes% I Goliad = s2ss4ee" 28 30 | 97 15 50
oka C- | Helena__...---- Karnes.....---- 29 00 | 97 56 600
Barked. ling 225.258 New Wied..-.-.. Comal, 352252222 29 42 98 15
Horke, Ave Sih ekt 53 ke
MicdrickiOte__. t New Braumfels_.| Comal .......-- 29 41 98 15
Gantt, Dr. Wm. H..--| Union Hill...... Washington ----| 30 3 96 31 540
Jennings, 8. K.,M.D. aa iTate
ie f Most: - 222-2 iPrayin’=-22- oes 30 20| 97 46 650
Rucker, B: Hists= --1% Washington ....| Washington ----| 30 26 | 96 15
TENNESSEE.
Bean; James B.. ...-=—- WalnutiGrove-=-|)Greene==-=—=—- | 36 00 | 82 53 1,350
Stewart, Prof. Wm. M-| Glenwood --.---- Montgomery. ---| 36 28 | 87 13 481
Tockway.J., M. D--..| Memphis ...<=4- Shelbyt-c-...--= 35 08 | 90 00 | 262
Wrieht, Dri Dani! H..| Memphis. ..2<--- DNCLDY < ses seeee | 35 08 | 90 00 262
KENTUCKY.
| | ar 40
Peat Gee ss Danville 5222203 Bayle Peet aie 37 40 | 84 30 950
Ray, L. G., M. D- ---- Part Soe) eea vee | Bourbon .......| 38 16 | 84 07 810
Savage, Rev. Geo. §.--| Millersburg----- Bongpon’= 2-22. | 38 20| 84 20 804
Young, Mrs. Lawrence-| Springdale - is Jefferson ---...- | 38 07 | 85 34 570
} |
OHIO.
AbeHeRBa 2s noc cans Welchfield . ...-| Geauga -... ..-. 41 23 | 81 12 Daas:
Allen, Prof. Geo. N..-.| Oberlin .... -.-. Loraine? 2 3.i<-- 41 20 | 82 15 800
ATmnipn. ips e a ea== = Ripleys <a ss <ie0% BOW aes ease 38 47 83 31
Anthony, Newton ----| Mount Union ---} Stark -.....--.- 41 20 | 81 Ol
Atkins, Rev. DS ..=-- Madison ~ ..-._ Pakexsste2 228. 41 49 | 81 10
Penner, Jo hess aeoe New Lisbon -...| Columbiana -.-.-) 40 45 80 46
Bennett, Henry ...--- Collmpwood 222 |"bucas~s 2.2252" 41 49 | 83 34
Prcers, Je 8 22.522. Germantown....| Montgomery ----| 39 39 | 84 11
Bosworth, Prof. R. S--| College Hill ....| Hamilton -- ---- 39 19 | 84 25 800
Cunningham, Miss A.-| Unionville...... Takesasoh 2222 41 52 81 00 650
Dayton, Lewis M.-.-.-.- Lancaster .. --.- Wairfield'2/2- 22 39 40 | 82 40
Gilmor, Moses-----.--.- Jackson. >= - Jackson) = o2oso 39910 | 82 32 666
Hannaford, Ebenezer-.| Cheviot -....--- Hamilton) aes 39 07 | 84 34
Harper, George W-.---| Cincinnati.-...- Hamilton .. ..-- 39 06 | 84 27 150
Herrick, James D--.--- Jetierson-.-5-=- Ashtabula. -_..- 42 00 81 00
Hollenbeck, F. & D. K.| Perrysburg ...-- Wieodeeeseco25 41 39 | 83 40
Holston, J. G. F., M. D.| Zanesville -..... Muskingum ....| 39.58 | 82 01 700
Hurt, hrancis W.-=.- Cincinnati . ....| Hamilton......- 39 06 84 34
Hyde, Gustavus A__-.| Cleveland ------ Cuyahoga .-...- 41 30 | 81 40 665
Ingram, John, M. D.--| Savannah ---- -- Ashlindies 2 —s—— 41 12 | 82 381
Janes, (C. (Crore cance Hillsborough . -.| Highland.
iuther: ‘6: Maes. SS. Hirani sos eee Rormasess s5252- 41°20" 8115 675
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

OH1IO—Continued.

?
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. | W. long.| Height.
2 Feet.
Mathews, Joseph McD.| Hillsborough - -.| Highland..-..-- 13 |} 83 1,000
MeCarty, HD S5.- 22 | West Bedford ---| Coshocton .....- 18 | 82 876
Peck, W. B., M. D.---| Bowling Green _.| Wood.......--- 271 $B 700
IPO; JAMES Elsa amon Portsmouth. .-.. NCIOLOe seeeee oe 50 82 468
Ropers eA bs. Sano mae Gallipolis .- ---- Gee rye es ip 00 | 82 520
Sanford, Prof. S. N.-.-| Granville.-=...- ticking» ssssee—e 03 | 82 995
Sanford, Smith......- \wEdinburssss2o—5 Borbacelea= see 20 | 81 520
Schenck, W. L, M.D.) Franklin .__..-- Warren ....._-- 30 | 84
Shaw, Joseph ---..--- | Bellefontaine . -.| Logan ........- 21) 83 1,031
Shaw, Joseph ......-- RICHEY sme nea Shelbyess ese 21] 84
‘Suan ere aie t Bellecentre ...-- LOHAN. « cocnieck s 28 | 83 1,170
Treat, Samuel W- .---| Windham -....- Portagees. 2... 105) 28k
Ward; in He Sees eee eMedinarss.=22.2 Medina 2.2 ses. 07 81 1, 206
Williams, Prof. M. G--}| Urbana .... ...- Champaign --_.- 06 | 83 1,015
MICHIGAN.
Allen, James 22. --- Rorbeevuron esa StClaire sean a Zi laps) |e te 606
Andrews, Seth L., M.D.’ Romeo..--. ~..- Macombi 2. <2. 244 | 83 730
Campbell, Wm.M.,M.D. Battle Creek ~---| Calhoun-_--.--- 20 | 85 750
Crosbyiid.- Boles see ss New Bufialo----- iBermiente os ese" 45 | 86 600
Currier, Alfred O.-.-. Grandunaple ste) MMenibee aa lama 300 | 86 752
Sireng, ld; Hos22 Seo 5 Grand™hapids=, | ent=<on-=-- = 00 | 86 852
Walker, Mrs.OctaviaC. Cooper..-- --.-- Kalamazoo-.---- 40 85 ¢
Whelpley, Miss H -..- Monroe -..- ---- Mi lionroe, <2 ae 56 | 83 590
Wihite, (Peters s=—s— Marquette --...- Marquette -...-- 5 32 87 630
Whittlesey, Chas. S.-. Copper Falls .---] Houghton -..-.- 25 | 88 1, 230
Winchell, Prof. A ~...) Ann Arbor-_----- Washtenaw. ---- 16 83 8$1
Woodruff, Lum --.-..-.- Ann Arbor...--- Washtenaw. ---- 16 | 83 850
INDIANA,
Barnes, (Clea. aac meee New Albany... -|sHloydo--- -.-j..4 ie 85
Chappellsmith, John..| New Harmony --| Posey.-..--.. ...- 08 87 320
Crisp, John 2—.- so. Evansville --.-.- Vanderburgh. ..- 08 | 87 390
Lasselle, Charles B....| Logansport. ....| Cass-..... ----- 45 | 86 600
Moore, Joseph. -....-. Richmond -....- Wayne .ceeseu= 9 47) 84 800
Smith, Hamilton --..- Cannelton -....- ROLLY w= ===) (Sao 58 | 86 450
Woodard, C.8.....-- Michigan City.-.| La Porte.--.--.. 41 | 86 622
ILLINOIS.
Babcock, Andrew J..-| Aurora..---....- Kane ic. spaces 40 | 88 600
Babcock) ) Heese 1 i ee MeHenry— 2 2p mice 08 | 88 & 650
Baker, Wrankoe-. -—n- South Pass...... Union oa a —eeeee 28 | 89
Bowman, Dr. E. H---| Edgington ...-.- Rock Island..--- 25 | 90
Brendel, Fred’k, M.D-.| Peoria.......... Peoraes ss = aoe 36 | 89 ;
Eldredge, William V--| Brighton. .....-| Macoupin......- 00 | 90
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

ILLINOIS—Continued.

63

%
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long.| Height.
ON Ooi! Feet.
Grant, Johnis.s2 .-.2 Manchester -s2-34//Scott_...... 82228 39 33} 90 34 683
Be WJOCNss ke sae Athens=.=- Seo: Menard..ss. 3228 39 52 89 56
Barris, J. O.,M. D-<-| Ottawa... ---=- ba Salle. cose 41 20 88 47 500
scox, Gan 2s. 32a @hicavo..=.225¢ Cooks... 5.33223 41 53 87 41 600
James, Anna :.=-.--=- Upper Alton -..-| Madison ...-...- 39 00 89 36
HeMkIns. J.lices o-28|Granvilles 23. Rutnam,...n22e 41 14 89 21
Mead. 5) basi) se) Aupustas.......- Hancock =<. =... 40 12 | 89 45 200
Mead, Thompson-....- BAbAVI1A <2 ou5= Mane =.= << 41 52 | 88 20 636
iblot: Jj Ebe 26s 588 Bekin s24s.o oes Pazewell.iccs 46 40 3 89 45
Rogers, ©; PL .cs Jee Marengo... 222522 McHenry... .. 23 42 14 88 38 650
Smith, Isaac H.....=- | Fremont Centre | Lake....... =... 42 i8 88 06 736
Swain, John, M. D- --| West Urbana..--| Champaign. -.--| 40 09 | .88 17 550
Titze, Henry A=...-=-- | West Salem-_--_.- Edwards ...---.| 38 30] 88 00
Wallace, Samuel Jacob.| Carthage. .....- Waencock.- os.s45 40.23 | 90 17
Whitaker, Benjamin --| Warsaw.... ---- Hancock = 222s 40 20 | 91 31
MISSOURI,
Wislizenus, A., M. D. | Be. Louise ee2Se St. sLouisssss. 5 38 37 | 90 16 | 461
IOWA.
ce Lanta ace Buchanan .. -..- 42 45 | 87 16
Beeman, Carlisle D---} Rossville - --..-- Allamakee .....- 43 10 Seva 1,400
Bory .John C..s<s= == wbellevtleesaa =a Jackson=<=s-s== 42 15 | 90 25
Goss, William K-..... Border Plains....| Webster ........ 42 36 94 05
Sobart, Edward F.---; Maquoketa . _.--| Jackson..-. .... 42 04 | 90 41
Hom Asa, MDs... =. Dubuque =s=22=- DPubuques=2o.== 42 30 90 52 1, 258
McConnell, Townsend.| Pleasant Plain.--.| Jefferson.......- 41 07 91 54
McCready, Daniel ...-| Fort Madison..-.| Lee-..........-. 40 37 91 28
ParkeryNathanrdes2.| Clintonic.-. coo Chnton= 2.2222 41 48 90 15
[EET Rg) lets Cah see ee Muscatine -...-. Muscatine ...... 41 26 91 05 586
Reynolds; W.--- <<. Iowa City..-.... JOHNSON. 55225 = 41 39 S133
pamilles Dr Jmoc see | wioux. City-2oc2 <= Woodbury -..-.- 42 31 | 96 25
Sbater, J: M., M.D_..| Pairfield:--.:..- Jeterson.. ...--- 41 01 Sian 940
Smith, Prof, B. Wilson| Mount Vernon.-_-| Linn.....-...-- 42 00 91 00
WISCONSIN.

> 4
cao. cag Waukesha. -.-..- Waukesha -..... 42 50 | 88 ll 833
Breed, J. Everett.__-- New London.-.-.| Waupacca .....- 44 21] 88 45
Chandler, Marine T.W.| Falls of St. Croix.| Polk. ........-- 45 30 | 92 40 660
Durham, (Wisden couc Racine <6 sseeeee Racine 4 je sao 25+ 42 49 87 40
Ellis, Edwin....---.- Bays@ity 2222 see Lar Pointe: 222 -/5 46 33 | 91 00 658
Gridley, Rev. John .--| Kenosha ....... Kenositti. . 2-00 42 35) 87 50 600
Hillier, Spencer L.---- Prescott2. 22222 PICkCe Ss 2a aes 44 56 92 40 800
Himoe, John E,.....- Norway 2.2222 Racine’..-= =... 42 50 | 88 10 753
64 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

WISCONSIN—Countinued.

Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long.| Height.
O50 ae Feet,
Lapham, Increase A...| Milwaukie-....- Milwaukie. 45) 03y| /8ieai 593
haps; Jacobye2=- —- == Manitowoc ..--- Manitowoc ----- 44 07 | 87 37
‘Wason, Prof. sRWZ: = 52 Appleton. ..--5- Outagamie.....- 44 10 | 88 35 800
Pickard, J. L., M. D--| Platteville... Grant= 355.586 42 45 91 00
Pomeroy, HC... 22 Milwaukie--.--- Milwaukie-...-- 43 04 | 87 59 658
Porter, Prof. Wm.---. Beloituss 25.28 10 eee ae 42°30 | 89 04 750
Schine: A. Me Ds. 23 Madison...-...- DANE i ajnantomtoee AZ: 05:_|. 89025 892
Sterling, Prof. J. W.--| Madison_-.---.-- DEMO iars ose ae 43 05 | 89 25 892
Struthers, Havele - =e Hind sossa=se9 Waupacca ..-..- 44 20 | 89 00
Underwood, Col. D.---| Menasha ...--.- Winnebago -.--- 4413} 88 18
Winkler, C., M. D----| Milwaukie_--.-- Milwaukie...... 43 04 | 87 57 5938
Walllard), J. 22.228 Janesville ...... RoGk,...- Sssse=e 42 42 | 89 91 768
MINNESOTA.
Garnson,, Obie) iPrmcetones ace BeNLON ose5 =-25 45 50} 93 45 |
Hillier, Spencer Ui:=-—= Wabashaw.----- Wabashaw...-.-- 44 30 | 92 15 850
Odell, Rey. Benj; He e2) Lake Winnibi-s|2- S22 22-5. ooo 47 30 | 94 40
goshish.
Ripge Shien sse esos Heizlewoodtmerncimeser int see cee 45 95 30 |
Walsh, Stephen_-_-.-- BUCHANAN ase a see ea ateraeree 47 33 92 00
Winteht wives sero JG}2H osha a Ss es Pembina -..-2-- 46 10 | 96 00 850
NEBRASKA.
Byers Wim, Nese osos=| Omahanoo.-. 2-2 = Douglas: os-s—4< 4115 | 96 10
Hamilton, William-.--|} Bellevue .------ | Shia ea 41 08 | 95 50
KANSAS.
Brown. GoW asses | Lawrence.....-- Douglass easeae | 38 58 | 95 12 800
Fish, Edmund---.----- | Council City ~---| Shawnee -...-.. | 38 42 | 95 50
Goodnow, Isaac T.---- | Manhattan ----- Rileyreeaseseas S 39 13 96 45
Himoe; S ©:,,M. D: <2) Mapleton==2=--— Bommbony=——-<o= 38 04 94 51
MeCarty, “EL Dest =.= | Leavenworth City| Leavenworth ~ 39 20 94 33 1, 342

UTAH:

Phelps, Henry H.-.--- Greatisalt’ Lakers sce. lene sases 40 45 | 111 26 4,250
City.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 65

CALIFORNIA.
Name of observer. Station. County. N. lat. |W. long. | Height.
an ae Feet.
Ayres, W. O., M. D..--| San Francisco_--| San Francisco-.-| 37 48 | 122 23 115
Belcher, W. C.-.=.--- Marysville.....- Wubarec eee 39 12 | 121 42
Logan, Thos. M., M.D.| Sacramento....-.| Sacramento. ----| 38 35 | 121 40 49
GUATEMALA.
CANUDUS, ANTONIO COLLEGE.
SOUTH AMERICA.
Name of Observer. Station. Lat. Lon. Height.
oo ars Cyt i Feet.
Hondlery AR iw csee seas Colonia Tovar, Venezuela ......- 10 26 67 20 6, 500
Geological Surveyors.---| Port of Spain, Trinidad.-------- 10 39 | 61 34 16
Henmng ON do Scones Plantation, Catharina Sophia,
Colony of Surinam, Dutch Gui-
BMA rotcvcinid cesta pa cineraiaje ane aas 5 48 | 56 47
Uricoschea, Dr. E._...-- Bogota, New Granada_...----.-. 436, %4 14 8,863
BERMUDA.
Arnold, James B.....-.- Shelby Bay. ott -cseccerceth ee 32 28 64 32
MOVANGAZGLLG See ates clace ne ce anaes eee aa enw
AZORES.
Dabney, Ss Wie aaaeen2s = Honta,Wsyal Islands —-.-..-0.-. 38 30 | 28 42 80

5s
66 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Re-
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1857, with estimates for the

year 1858 :
RECEIPTS.

The whole amount of Smithson’s bequest deposited in
the treasury of the United States is $515,169, from
which an annual income, at 6 per cent., is derived, of

Extra fund from unexpended income invested as

follows :
In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent. bonds,
ol CHIVAS ORS Semple sameeren sa ee $3,750 00
In $53,000 Virginia 6 per cent. bonds,
ViClGiNE'.,..s-nacsouseea se Haun nerve vclee ae 3,210 00
In $7,000 Tennessee 6 per cent. bonds,
yielding PET OAT ee Le tere 420 00
In an Georgia 6 per cent. bonds, yield-
eeaeu ines ebes sildthueicn sacs odtSatereomeernuetes 30 00
lee “$100 Washington 6 per cent. bonds,
VCCI AG.) Wats dupase cannes ecesrisvsasseeasnce ee 6 00

Balance in hands of Treasurer Janu-
Papal esis [er ce anew einebias exes venahitan er ena scis eisinn@esiesoine

Total Tecerpts...dc...cteses Pate Ly MOR Rae aectbias

GENERAL STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES.

For building, furniture, and fixtures....... $4,062 65
For items common to the different objects

Gi ee TMStILUDLON.. scvsecstccsueaccnte scams 13,035 18
For publications, researches, and lectures, 11,051 52
For library, museum, and gallery of art.. 6,999 81

Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1,
1858, of which $5,000 belongs to the extra fund.

$30,910 14

7,416 00

38,326 14
7,164 32

or

£45,490 46

$35,149 16

10,341 30

—_—_

=

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES,
Statement in detail of the expenditures during 1857 :

BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC.

Repairs, &c., incident to building......... « ot $8,305: 12
Furniture and fixtures for uses in common. 313 61
Furniture and fixtures for library .......... 163 50
Furniture and fixtures for museum......... 150 80
Magnetic Observatory.........scscasorrscscsess 49 62
I See ee 20 00
GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of Board and Committees......... $281 00
Lighting and heating.........ccccccscosessesees 1,244 33
We NEMN Saleh dead Panes «p's cwowrctsine obo udsiviin toh 2 524 02
Transportation and exchange.............+6. 2,264 74
PEE Yc. accupt pre dy aus xe es ive sanas vacda ct th 347 94
eR ELINA 5a 5 sy sign ic go siets dees 4 ovine oan 236 50
MMMM NTI a osig sian ay's 12 <9 sich dup adbeadn a deed ie 191 66
HGRA TE EI AG ice din dy deed 2p cmipinagisnae iced 341 38
Salary of the Secretary .......s0...2..seecseeee 3,499 92

Chapt: clarks, j..,..assacsesenensiaes 1,200 00

Book-keeper ....vsxssussadesctews 200 00

AAOD 5. lass ccscadsep aescde ve 400 97

Wratchmen 5..5.26ccdims + essaden 534 65

ENO ERED a9 ini de Ghinsabinualan dante 794 00

Messenger 56.6 <i ehans «ice ceenxs 128 00
Piast clerks hike cis oss o:ins ssadumescdensagaaeaen 222 00
Incidentals, general.........ssecsccsssescecsaves 624 07

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions...........ssceseeee $6,230 02
Reports on progress of knowledge............ 342 00
Dither pablications ......0c.s00- sesvescrestocness 649 90
CME UGIOLY ccvasiwseebiorene tera tah oiteved soles 2,465 24
Investigations, computations, and _ re-

SOND ooo wanna eee thoes wie ee gare nose 250 00
PPG ICCLUTCLS. coctc.canstenctesecssconsesescess 980 00
Incidentals to lectures......scccececscssesccetee -134 36

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.
CGREROE DOOKB.) i356 .0s+<.-20c0sceresnueMeuenees » ©) $2,019 83
pEay Of assistantacs.*......->-nsnenaetbaaubeags 1,194 12
Transportation for library.............0 nee 200 00

SLAC Yiveceivescnccscassascccsvacn dosent 1993, 92

67

$4,062 65

13,035 18:

11,051 52
68 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

Explorationg,.).s.ansssevkteunceeears enue. $57 52
WOTICCtIOTB coe recs ens ce bes sais speieneeelien sae auea 49 78
Alcohol, jars, and museum incidentals..... 445 77
Transportation for MUSeUM. ............ee0eee 450 00
Assistance and labor in museum ............ . 500 00
Gallery 208 AT thd. ES ic6 sa» sninaheenee meeps decsiies 82 87

nae $6,999 81

Total Ex pendibare 2... o.cccscacsvcespsas€acacteenes te leccitee $35,149 16

The estimated income for the year 1857 was $38,290 14, exclusive
of the balance in the hands of the Treasurer; the actual income ex-
clusive of this balance was $38,326 14.

The estimated expenditure amounted to $34,000, the actual ex-
penditure to $35,149 16. The excess is due to unexpected repairs,
necessary to the building in consequence of a very severe hail
storm, which broke several thousand panes of glass, and otherwise
injured the edifice ; and to the payment of the last unsettled account
contracted by the architect for the gas pipes and fixtures.

The expenditures, however, are less than the income for the year,
leaving a total balance now in the hands of the Treasurer of $10,341 30.
Of this sum, $5,000 are the remainder of the extra fund, ($125,000,)
intended to be permanently invested, and the whole is at present re-
_ quired for carrying on the operations of the Institution, until the
receipt of the next semi-annual income.

During the past year, the stocks purchased by the Institution tem-
porarily declined in commercial value, but they are now selling at
_ about the same prices as those at which they were bought. Fluctua-
tions, however, of this character do not affect the income of the Insti-
tution, since the amount of interest continues permanently the same.

The committee respectfully submit the following estimate of the
“receipts and expenditures for the year 1858:

Receipts.

_ Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1, 1858,
(exclusive of $5,000 belonging to the extra fund)...... $5,341 30
Interest on the original fund for 1858...............eceeeeees 30,910 14
: Interest on the extra fund invested in State stocks......... 7,416 00
$43,667 44

Expenditures.
BUILDING, FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, ETC.

* Repairs and incidentals......c...1ss:cesseeeee ss $1,500 00

Furniture and fixtures in common.....,....... 500 00

“ Pe Stor libtarysieuvscstere 150 00

“ ys) for MUSEU, aces need 150 00

Magnetic Observatory.....ccssscessccesesssecosees 50 00

ons 9850000
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of Board and committees ............ $300
Paemtine and ‘heatimgs. 6: .sccateicevsvedeelectee 600
cura kaise Segesensasons deditddaieddsicecdvsee 500
Transportation and exchange........seseccseees 2,500
Penna, SST RR casas dbses ps cos <deascccestns 350
Serial PINAL Adis ciecisscsdecstesccsesese 350
TU MPIADUI det detain geet ected scecccseescascedecades 250
BM RRMNRIAE. YP eoawanadceececeesvesdécacascssceess 400
PROGrereaie, POCTICLAL 2. oe. idee caste scccscee ses 650
Sal ariGes— Secretary .......-..seceseceoscecsscsses 3,500
White! clarke: 3.00.08. eS. 1,400
omlkWeeper S02... sch cedcosese care =< 200
PME Meares corded atettees stn aecess ows 400
WV bE LUNAS A VE ies eesti ebikeats 500
Wiborene: ve. oH eee eens 800
Beenrelerk hirer, 0 iste ds eo 300

00

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge... $6,500 00
PO SMUMIEM Oh. casceevcdnessecectasnes Betencgeretea 1,500 00
PP MHEr MEDMCATIONS.......02scisecevasecaccccesaccss 1,000 00
ee mrnrensery ea. Ue ak ete Taeee 3,000 00
Investigations, computations, and researches 250 00
SEE a sa eae 1,000 00
LIBRARY, MUSEUM AND GALLERY OF ART.
sperm Ret =. ocesevcnsaacactees Meecetanaes sds $3,000 00
Pay of assistants in library.........0...ssss0ee0 1,200 00
Dransportavion for Library .......00c.sssecaseseae 400 00
Bncidentats for UDrary......c.0c.cecconoseccsscceas 150 00
MRIS —BALATY .<. 000 deca cescae-caseacs tose caaget shies UAE
MPMEAMAELIAQUIS . ..5..22<aseduevcdcasdsecas<adeasasneds 50 00
MMRRIIIO «25... canto geben aed dle dxcames scudace ss 50 00
Incidentals, museum, jars, alcohol, &c....... 300 00
WESUSPOLtAtiON, MUSCUMI......0.00csicseseesesere 550 00
Assistants and labor, museum...........ceceeee 600 00
RT BEE sin vais «4 sic stale Wage de su caceare cles 100 00

69

$13,000 00

13,250 00

8,400 00

$37,000 00

It is impossible to make a very definite estimate of the expendi-
tures on account of the museum, during the year 1858, because the
70 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.

collection at the Patent Office is to be transferred to the keeping of
the Institution, and the amount of expenditures under this head will
depend upon the appropriation made by Congress for this purpose.
In conclusion, the committee report that they have examined the
books, and each account for the past year, separately, and find them
all correct.
Respectfully submitted.
J. A. PEARCE,
A. D. BACHE,
JOS. G. TOTTEN,
Kaxecutive Committee.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES, tl

REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE.

The building of the Smithsonian Institution having been completed,
the special object of the Building Committee for which it was originally
appointed, might be considered accomplished, and therefore an annual
report no longer necessary ; but as a large portion of the edifice re-
mained unfinished, and since repairs are required which will probably
be very expensive, it is thought proper that the committee should be
continued.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation of fifteen thousand
dollars was made for cases for the accommodation of the collections
belonging to government. These are now finished and form a beauti-
ful addition to the large hall, and are apparently well adapted to the
purpose for which they are intended. With strict economy the appro-
priation of Congress has been found sufficient to provide accommoda-
tions for the present reception of the articles, though in the course of
time additional cases will be required.

The west wing of the building, devoted to the library, has been
furnished with alcoves and a gallery extending around three sides of
the large room. This arrangement, which will serve very much to
increase the accommodation and security of the books, produces a
very pleasing architectural effect.

The large cisterns in the grounds near the building, which were
directed to be arched over at the last session of the Board, have been
properly secured, and one of them converted into an ice-house.

The balance of a bill for gas fixtures, which had been contracted by
the architect, and which remained unsettled, on account of a disagree-
ment as to certain charges, has been finally paid, after a reduction of
$352 99.

The peculiar style of architecture of the building, and the large
amount of surface it exposes to the weather, renders constant repairs
necessary. During the past year almost the whole time of two work-
men has been occupied in this service.

Respectfully submitted.

RICHARD RUSH,

WM. H. ENGLISH,

JOSEPH HENRY,
Building Committee.
12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

MONDAY, Mancx 16, 1857.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 11 o’clock
a. m. ;
Present: Hon. R. B. Taney, Chancellor, Hon. John C. Breckin-
ridge, James M. Mason, 8. A. Douglas, Gen. Jos. G. Totten, Prof.
A.D. Bache, Wm. B. Magruder, and the Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, then presented the following
communication :

Wasuineton, March 16, 1857.

GENTLEMEN: When the Board of Regents was originally organized
it was deemed proper that the Vice President of the United States for
the time being should be elected as the Chancellor. The Institution
exists under the authority of Congress, and they have made certain
officers of the government ex officio Regents. The Vice President is
the highest in rank of the officers thus designated ; and it would seem
to be peculiarly proper that the one who presides over the delibera-
tions of one branch of the national legislature should also preside over
the deliberations ofa scientific institution which the nation has brought
into existence and fosters.

Unfortunate events have for some time past left the government
without a Vice President elected by the people. And when that office
was vacant the Regents conferred on me the office which had always
before been filled by the Vice President. And when I accepted it I
regarded the appointment as a temporary one. The reason for the
appointment has now happily ceased, and I desire to give the Regents
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 73

an opportunity of restoring the original plan of organization, in which
I fully concurred when it was adopted.

I therefore resign the office of Chancellor of the Institution, and at
the same time return my thanks for the honor which the Regents
bestowed upon me in electing me to that office.

But my resignation will not lessen the interest I feel in the Insti-
tution. On the contrary, every year’s experience has more and more
convinced me of its usefulness and efficiency in promoting the objects
of its founder, and I shall always be ready to offer my humble aid if
I can be useful in advancing its prosperity and success.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your obedient
servant,

BY Be TANEY:

To the Recents oF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Mr. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United States, moved that
the present Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, be re-elected to that
office, expressing his unwillingness to assume the position which had
been so long and so ably filled by its present occupant,

The motion was adopted unanimously, whereupon Judge Taney
remarked that he was anxious to serve the Institution to the best of
his ability, and he could not decline this expression of the confidence
of the Board if they insisted on his retaining the office of Chancellor.

The Secretary announced that, by joint resolution of the Senate and
House of Representatives, Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, and
Gen. Joseph G. Totten, of the city of Washington, had been re-elected
Regents for six years; also that the President of the Senate had re-
appointed Hon. James A. Pearce and Hon. James M. Mason, Regents
for the same period of tine.

The Secretary announced to the Board that, since its last meeting,
three distinguished men of science, correspondents of the Institution,
had deceased, namely: Prof. J. W. Bamzy, Dr. E. K. Kang, and
Mr. W. C. ReprFiev.

On this announcement Prof. Bache offered a series of appropriate
remarks, referring to their eminent services in the promotion of
science.

Gen. Totten offered the following resolutions, which were adopted:

ftesolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
heard with regret the announcement of the death of Prof. Jacop W.
Batizy, whose communications to the Smithsonian Contributions have
74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

attracted the notice and won the approval of i throughout |

the world.

fesolved, That the ate offer to the family of Prof Bailey their
condolence on the loss which they have sustained. +f

Mr. Douglas offered the following resolutions, which were » adopted:

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, in
common with the whole country, have heard with deep regret of the
death of one of their esteemed collaborators, Dr. E. K. Kann, to whom.
was committed by this Institution a set of philosophical instruments
for the purpose of research in the polar regions, which he used, and
carefully returned at the hazard of his life, antes a series: of obser-
vations of great value to science.

Resolved, That the Regents offer to the family of Dr. Kane seheir
condolence on the loss which they have sustained.

Prof. Bache offered the following resolution, which was adopted k

ftesolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
heard with regret of the decease of their valued correspondent, WILLIAM
C. Reprietp, of New York, whose labors in meteorology have ren-
dered his name familiar to men of science in every part of the civilized
world, and offer to his family their condolence on the loss which
they have sustained.

A communication from Dr. Robert Hare was read, relative to the
practical construction of minute weights and measures.

On motion of Dr. Magruder, the following resolutions were adopted:

ftesolved, That a copy of the communication of Dr. Hare be trans- .
mitted to the Secretary of the Treasury, with the recommendation of —

the Board of Regents that the instrument offered by Dr. Hare be ~
received by the government, and placed in the Office of Weights an
Measures.

ftesolved, That the communication of Dr. ere be inserted in fe
appendix to the report of the Regents to Congress. Hite

A communication from J. A. Johnson, esq., of Maryland, relative
to an ‘‘ International Geographic and Scientific Commission’’ was
read and referred to the Executive Committee and the Secretary.

The Secretary made a communication to the Board, relative to an.
article which had been published by Prof. 8. F. B. Morse, conta
charges against his moral character and his scientific reputation.

a

a

The Chancellor made a few remarks, confirming Prof. aa y

statement as to the advice he had given him respecting this attack,
On motion of Mr. Mason, the following resolution was adopted : Bi

fiesolved, That the communication of the Secretary and uecompany> u
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 75

referred to a committee, to examine and report upon
on of the Board of Regents.

Shancellor appointed Messrs. Mason, Pearce, Felton,
ecommittee. —

~ ac sine die.

| Wasurineton, January 20, 1858.
ance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their
eting on the third Wednesday of January of each year, the
et this day in the Regents’ room.

orum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Thurs-
uary 28, 1858.

THURSDAY, January 28, 1858.

ting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 10 a. m.,
the Smithsonian Institution. :
Present: Hon. John C. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United
s, Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. 8. A. Douglas, Hon. George E.
x, Prof. A. D. Bache, Prof. C. C. Felton, Mr. Seaton, Treasurer,
the ‘Godetory.
‘the absence of the Chancellor the Vice President was called to
air.
minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
peretary stated that, since the last meeting of the Board, the
r of the House of Representatives had appointed Hon. William
B ish, of Indiana, Hon. Benjamin Stanton, of Ohio, and Hon.
hg |. Gartrell, of Georgia, as Regents for the term of their service as
embers of the House.
reasurer presented a statement of the receipts and expendi-
during the year 1857, and also a general statement of the funds;
ere referred to the Executive Committee.
lowing communication was presented :

Spit “Wasurnatoy, January 23, 1858.
EM sn: The undersigned offers for sale, and respectfully sug-
0 ) your peeptabie aa the propriety of gta the gallery
76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

He proposes to sell the whole collection described in the catalogue
published by the Institution, one hundred and fifty-two in number »
for the sum of twelve thousand dollars—one-third of the same cash
and the remainder at two equal annual instalments; or, if it should
be preferred, one-fourth down and the residue in three equal annual
instalments.

The undersigned commenced his labors in this work in 1842, and
devoted the best years of his life in travelling through the region of
our country peopled principally by the red man—through the wilds
of Oregon and what is now Washington Territory. All of the por-
traits are accurate likenesses of prominent chiefs and braves, and
readily recognized by men who have had intercourse with the various
tribes of Indians.

Since 1852 he has cherished the hope (but has not been able to
realize it) that Congress would authorize the purchase of this collec-
_ tion. He has, up to this time, made sacrifices—such as one believing
in the merit of his own work, and whose zeal in persevering through
arduous and unremitting toil to accomplish it, alone would make—to
keep this collection together. He will not affect the modesty of
refraining from expressing his belief that no other gallery (aside from
what artistic merit the public may award it)-possesses the interest,
in a national point of view, that this does. Some of the chiefs repre-
sented are no longer living; and, to the little we know of their history —
it will be some satisfaction to add the perpetuation of their features.
These were taken from life and in the character they themselves pre-
ferred to be handed down to the gaze of future generations.

The price at which he offers this collection will not more than cover
the outlay in cost of material, transportation, insurance, travelling
expenses, &c., and will not afford him any compensation for his time
and labor. Taking, as he humbly conceives, the intrinsic value of
these Indian portraits into consideration, he will receive no pecuniary
profit by their disposal on the terms named.

His ardent desire that they should be preserved, as a national work,
in some place at the capital of our country ; his failure heretofore to
induce Congress to agree to their purchase, and the more pressing
reasons of liabilities now maturing, impel him to make this proposi-
tion. Your honorable Board are again requested to consider it and
communicate your answer at as early a day as is convenient. If the
purchase of the portraits is not authorized by you, he will be com-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. at

pelled to expose them at public auction in time to have the proceeds
available by the 1st of May next. —

The undersigned will take this occasion to tender his acknowledg-
ments to the Board and Professor Henry for the use of the hall in the
Institution where the gallery now is, and for other courtesies, which
he will always appreciate.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. M. STANLEY.

The Hon. Boarp or Recents of the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion, this communication was referred to a special committee,
and Messrs. Felton, Douglas, and Badger were appointed.

The Secretary laid before the Board a present from Miss Contaxaki,
of Greece, consisting of a volume of drawings, &c., illustrating the
celebrated works of art in her own land, together with the following
letters :

Wasuineton, November 23, 1857.

Sir: During my last trip to the east I was charged by Miss Eliza-
beth B. Contaxaki, a native of the isle of Crete, with an ‘‘ ornamental
album,’’ which she desired me to present, through you, to the Smith-
sonian Institution. In forming the work, this lady designed it as a
contribution to the Universal Exhibition at Paris, in 1855, worthy of
the classic renown of the ancient city of Athens. So ardent is her
admiration of the United States and its institutions that she wishes
it to be permanently placed in this country, and having a high appre-
ciation, of you as an American statesman, and your reputation as a
classical scholar, she desired that I would request you to offer it in
her name to the Smithsonian Institution.

The ‘‘ Classical Bouquet,’’ as it is entitled, consists of illustrations
of the principal monuments and places in the kingdom of Greece, to
which are added a few from her native isle of Crete, not yet emanci-
pated from the Moslem yoke. These illustrations are explained by
quotations from the ancient Greek authors in the original language,
beautifully illuminated ; whilst many of the pages are adorned with
flowers culled from'the spots which the drawings represent.

Miss Contaxaki is the sole originator and authoress of it, assisted
in its execution by native artists of Greece. The beauty of the finish,
and the faithfulness and accuracy of the quotations from Hesiod,
Homer, Xenophon, Plato, and others, show that the present sons and
78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

daughters of the renowned ancient city of Minerva are not insensible
of the glory that was once attached to her name, nor incapable of
appreciating those monuments of art, science, and literature which
still survive.

Feeling assured that, as an eminent classical scholar, you will fully
appreciate the worth of the Classical Bouquet, I beg to present it,
through you, to the Smithsonian Institution, in her name.

With sentiments of the highest respect, I remain your obedient
servant,

CHAS. 8S. SPENCE.
Hon. Lewis Cass,

Secretary of State.

Wasuineton City, November 25, 1857.

Sir: I send you herewith a splendid album, together with a letter
from Mr. Spence, explanatory of the circumstances of its execution
and transmission to this country. I perform the duty of presenting it
to the Smithsonian Institution with great pleasure, for it is a finished
specimen of taste and art, worthy of a prominent place in your inter-
esting collection. Mr. Spence has so well described it that any
further reference to it on my part is unnecessary.

I am, dear sir, respectfully yours,
LEWIS CASS.
Prof. HEnry,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington City.

On motion, the work was referred to Professor Felton, to report a
resolution expressive of the high appreciation of the gift on the part
of the Board, and a letter of acknowledgment to Miss Contaxaki.

A letter was read from Sir George Simpson, expressing the desire
and intention of the agents of the Hudson’s Bay Company to co-
operate with the Smithsonian Institution in procuring specimens of
natural history, and in the prosecution of scientific researches.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 30th instant, at 11
o'clock, a. m.

SATURDAY, January 30, 1858.

The Board of Regents met this day in the hall of the Institution
at 11 o’clock a. m.

Present: Hon. J. C. Breckinridge, Vice President of the United
States, Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. 8. A. Douglas,
Hon. W. H. English, Professor A. D. Bache, Professor C. C. Felton,
Mr. Seaton, Treasurer, and the Secretary.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 19

The Vice President took the chair.

The minutes were then read and approved.

The minutes of the last meeting of the ‘‘ Establishment’’ were read
for information, according to the by-laws of that body.

The Secretary stated to the Board the action of Congress at its last
session relative to the construction of cases in the Smithsonian
building for the government collections, and also the decision of the
Attorney General respecting the law.

The Secretary then presented the annual report of the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1857; |
which was read.

The Board then visited the rooms of the building, the collections,
&c., and adjourned.

Wasuineton, April 10, 1858.

The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o’clock a. m.

Present: Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. 8. A. Douglas, Hon. George E.
Badger, Hon. Benj. Stanton, Hon. L. J. Gartrell.

Mr. Mason was called to the chair.

The.minutes were read and approved.

The report of the Building Committee for the year 1857 was read
and accepted.

The report of the Executive Committee was presented, together
with the estimates for the year 1858.

Communications relative to the care of the government collections,
the Wynn estate, the publications, investigations, and other opera-
tions of the Institution, were read.

On motion of Mr. Badger, the Secretary was directed to have the
windows and other parts of the east wing of the building put in good
order.

The following report from Professor Felton was presented :

REPORT ON THE PRESENT OF MISS CONTAXAKI.

The Secretary laid before the Board a volume received from Greece,
and sent as a gift to the Smithsonian Institution, together with the
letter of the Hon. Mr. Spence, late United States minister to Con-
stantinople, to the Secretary of State, and the letter of the Hon. Lewis
Cass, the Secretary of State, to Professor Henry, the Secretary of the
Institution. The volume and the correspondence were referred to
Professor Felton.

The volume was transmitted from Athens, Greece, through Mr.
80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

Spence. It was designed and executed by a Greek lady of rare liter-
ary accomplishments, Miss Elizabeth B. Contaxaki, assisted by six
Greek gentlemen, resident in Athens. It contains sketches of the
principal ruins in that city, and views of the most famous historical
places there and in other parts of Greece, correctly drawn and deli-
cately colored, together with the passage, from the classic authors,
in which the objects and places are described or referred to, transla-
tions of the passages, and extracts from English and French writers
on the same subjects. The book is adorned with exquisitely drawn
vignettes, and emblematic devices, and with specimens of the wild
flowers which grow in the places described, carefully preserved,
pressed, and attached to the leaves. The volume is bound in blue
velvet, and tastefully decorated with silver. It is put in an elegantly
and richly carved case, made of olive wood, from the olive groves near
Athens, where stood, in ancient times, the academic groves of Plato’s
school. The body of the case is made of the trunk of the tree, and
the ornamental portions, of the root, which is of darker and richer
color. This beautiful gift, therefore, combines a great variety of
objects, possessing, from their associations with the loftiest achieve-
ments of Hellenic genius, a deep and singular interest, and forming
a most appropriate memorial of the country from which European
art, education, philosophy, and letters took their rise.

Miss Contaxaki, the tasteful designer of this memorial, is a native
of the island of Crete. At the time of the outbreak of the Greek
revolution, her father was a landed proprietor there, and, in common
with the great body of the Hellenic race, lost most of his property by
the rapacity and tyranny of the Turks. His family was dispersed,
and his daughter Elizabeth became an inmate in the family of the
Rev. Dr. John H. Hill, the American missionary, who established
himself in Athens, at the close of the war, for the benevolent and
enlightened purpose of aiding the Greeks to reconstruct the shattered
edifice of civilization, by establishing the school, which still continues
to dispense the blessings of education among the children of its first
pupils in that illustrious capital. Residing with Dr. Hill for many
years, and educated chiefly under his superintendence and care, Eliza-
beth became known to many American travellers in the Hast, by
whom she has often been mentioned with a cordial appreciation of her
accomplishments and merits. Their personal relations have naturally
inspired her with a warm interest in the United States, heightened
by the sympathies of the citizens of America in the regeneration of
her country, and the substantial aid furnished by them to Greece in
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 81

the hour of her utmost need. Recently Miss Contaxaki, after a visit
to Constantinople, where she was received with distinction, has re-
turned to her native island, which is under the government of the
Pacha of Egypt, and, by her learning and ability, has succeeded in
recovering, through the Moslem tribunal, a portion of her paternal
estate.

The volume now presented to the Smithsonian Institution was sent
to the great Paris Exhibition of 1855, where it excited much admira-
tion, and gained a diploma for its accomplished author. She has
now transmitted it for permanent deposit among the treasures of the
Smithsonian Institution in the United States.

The Regents of the Institution accept the gift with great pleasure,
not only on account of its rare beauty, its intrinsic value, and the
many interesting associations it suggests with that famous city,
called by Milton ‘‘ the eye of Greece, mother of art and arms,’’ but
also as an expressive symbol of the hearty good will for the American
republic, cherished by the enlightened spirit of a nation which has so
honorably vindicated its right to the glories of an illustrious descent
by re-establishing the institutions of freedom and learning on the soil
where, in ancient times, they earliest flourished, and with uunex-
ampled splendor.

The committee recommends the adoption of the following resolu-
tions by the Board:

Resolved, That the regents of the Smithsonian Institution ac-
cept, with gratitude, the splendid memorial volume presented by Miss
Elizabeth B. Contaxaki, and that they recognize, in the beauty, taste,
and art displayed in its general execution and style of its embellish-
ment, a pleasing indication that the genius which placed the ancient
Greeks at the head of the civilization of the world still survives in
their descendants.

Resolved, That a copy of the above report, and of these resolutions, be
transmitted, with a letter of acknowledgment from the Smithsonian
Institution, to Miss Contaxaki, the accomplished donor.

On motion, the report was accepted and the resolutions adopted.

The Board then adjourned.

WEDNESDAY, May 19, 1858.

The Board met this day in the Vice President’s room, United States
Capitol, at 94 o’clock.
Present: The Chancellor, Hon. Roger B. Taney, Hon. John C.
Breckinridge, Vice President of the United States, Hon. J. M. Mason,
6s
82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. 8. A. Douglas, Hon. W. H. English, Hon,
Benjamin Stanton, Prof. A. D. Bache, and the Secretary.

The minutes were read and approved.

Mr. Pearce explained the report of the Executive Committee and the
estimates for the year 1858, and, on motion, they were adopted.

The following report was presented from Prof. Felton, of the com-
mittee to whom was referred the communication of Mr. J. M. Stanley:

REPORT ON THE PROPOSITION TO PURCHASE THE INDIAN GALLERY.
~

The Secretary laid before the Board a letter from Mr. J. M. Stanley,
painter of the gallery of Indian portraits, now on deposit with the
Smithsonian Institution, proposing to sell them to the Institution for
the sum of twelve thousand dollars.

The committee appointed to consider and report upon the subject
respectfully represent that, while they are fully sensible of the great
historical and ethnological value of this collection of portraits, and
of their characteristic excellence, they are yet of opinion that it
would be inexpedient to withdraw the sum mentioned from the funds
necessary to carry on the scheme of active operations, which has been
so ably inaugurated and, thus far, so successfully executed. The
income of the Smithsonian fund should not be scattered among differ-
ent and disconnected objects, and the sum necessary for the purchase
of the gallery cannot be spared, without crippling for a time, at least,
the regular operations of the Institution.

Among the Contributions to Knowledge several important works
relating to the aboriginal inhabitants of America have been published
by the Institution and circulated over the civilized world.

Grammars and dictionaries of the Indian languages may be men-
tioned as of special interest, and of great value to the science of com-
parative philology. Their language will probably pass away, and
the races speaking them disappear; but the works to which we allude
will preserve, for future investigators of the science of philology,
the characteristic form in which their thoughts were expressed, and
will have an important bearing, not only on general ethnological
inquiries, but on the philosophy of the human mind. These volumes
have been eagerly sought and studied by the most eminent compara-
tive philologists of Europe, and have, by universal consent, contri-
buted materially to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men in that department of science.

But though your committee are of opinion that the purckase of this
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 83

gallery would interfere with the present plan of operations, and that
it would not so directly tend to the increase and diffusion of know-
ledge, they would earnestly express the opinion that, in a national
point of view, the value of these portraits can hardly be over-
estimated.

They represent forty-three different tribes, and are taken from the
leading personages in them. The artist has studied carefully the
peculiarities of the tribes, the characteristic expressions of the in-
dividuals, their natural attitudes and actions, their several styles of
costume and ornament, and has reproduced, with artistic skill, all these
particulars. To this interesting enterprise he has given ten of the
best years of his life, having traversed, with great labor and incon-
venience, the principal regions inhabited by the subjects of his pencil.
The number of portraits, including that of the artist, enumerated in
the catalogue, is one hundred and fifty-two. The price for which
they are offered is much below their real value, being less than $80
apiece. At the proposed rate the artist will receive no compensation
for his time and labor, and barely enough to defray the cost of material,
transportation, travelling expenses and insurance.

The number of the tribes represented so faithfully in this gallery,
and the prominence of the individuals, render the collection very
complete and satisfactory, as presenting a general view of the charac-
teristic features of the red man. These circumstances make it important
that the gallery should be preserved entire. Its peculiar value con-
sists in its comprehensive character no less than in the fidelity of the
individual details. Centuries hence, when most all of the tribes here
represented shall have disappeared, as the New England tribes, for
example, have nearly disappeared, this gallery will be an object of
.the profoundest interest to the student of man, the historian, the
philosopher, and the statesman.

The relations between the government o! the United States and the
Indian tribes form one of the most delicate and important subjects of
national legislation. The government has not only endeavored to
deal with the red men in a liberal and paternal spirit, but has done
much towards illustrating their character and condition by the pub-
lication of costly works embodying the observations and researches of
investigators who have devoted themselves to Indian studies. It
appears to your committee that to purchase this collection, and to
place it in some secure situation easy of access to visitors at the
capital, would be an act worthy of the enlightened liberality of Con-
84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

gress. The cost would be insignificant, and the value of the collection
would increase in all future time. No place is so suitable for its
permanent deposit as the city of Washington, and no guardianship so
appropriate as that of the government of the United States.

Your committee recommend to the Board that the subject of the
purchase of Mr. Stanley’s Indian gallery be brought respectfully to
the attention of Congress, as a measure eminently deserving a favor-
able consideration in its bearings upon the history of the aboriginal
tribes of America, and as a monument of deep and lasting interest to
the people of the United States.

The report was accepted, and laid on the table for the present.

The Secretary stated that Mr. Putnam having resigned the agency
of the Smithsonian publications in New York,|Messrs. D. Appleton &
Co. had been appointed his successors.

The Secretary announced that since the last meeting of the Board
the death of Dr. Rozert Haru, of Philadelphia, had occurred, who
was one of the principal benefactors of the Institution, and its first
honorary member.

Professor Bache gave an account of the life, character, and scientific
researches of Dr. Hare, and offered the following resolutions :

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
learned with deep regret the decease of one of the earliest and most
venerated honorary members of the establishment, Robert Hare, M.D.,
of Philadelphia, late professor of chemistry in the University of
Pennsylvania.

Resolved, That the activity and power of mind of Dr. Hare, shown
through a long and successful career of physical research, the great
fertility of invention, the happy adaptations to matters of practical
life, and the successful grappling with questions of high theory in
physical science, have placed him among the first in his country of
the great contributors to knowledge, clarum et venerabile nomen.

Resolved, That while we deplore the loss of this great and good
man, who has done so much to keep alive the flame of science in our
country in past days, we especially mourn the generous patron of our
Institution, the sympathizing friend of the youth of some of us, and
the warm-hearted colleague of our manhood.

Resolved, That we offer to the bereaved family of Dr. Hare our
sincere condolence in the loss which they have sustained by his death.

The resolutions were adopted.

The report of the Secretary for 1857 was then accepted.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 85

Professor Felton, in behalf of the special committee to whom the
following communication of Professor Henry of March 16, 1857,
together with accompanying documents, &c., were referred, presenteg
@ report.

COMMUNICATION FROM PROF. HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION, RELATIVE TO A PUBLICATION BY PROF. MORSE.

GENTLEMEN: In the discharge of the important and responsible
duties which devolve upon me as Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, I have found myself exposed, like other men in public positions,
to unprovoked attack and injurious misrepresentation. Many instances
of this, it may be remembered, occurred about two years ago, during
the discussions relative to the organic policy of the Institution ; but,
though very unjust, they were suffered to pass unnoticed, and gene-
rally made, I presume, no lasting impression on the public mind.

During the same controversy, however, there was one attack made
upon me of such a nature, so elaborately prepared and widely circu-
lated, by my opponents, that, though I have not yet publicly noticed
it, I have from the first thought it my duty not to allow it to go un-
answered. I allude to an article in a periodical entitled ‘‘ Shaffner’s
Telegraph Companion,’’ from the pen of Prof. 8. F. B. Morse, the
celebrated inventor of the American electro-magnetic telegraph. In
this, not my scientific reputation merely, but my moral character was
pointedly assailed ; indeed, nothing less was attempted than to prove
that in the testimony which I had given in a case where I was at
most but a reluctant witness, I had consciously and wilfully deviated
from the truth, and this, too, from unworthy and dishonorable
motives.

Such a charge, coming from such a quarter, appeared to me then, as
it appears now, of too grave a character and too serious a coasequence
to be withheld from the notice of the Board of Regents. I, therefore,
presented the matter unofficially to the Chancellor of the Institution,
Chief Justice Taney, and was advised by him to allow the matter to
rest until the then existing excitement with respect to the organiza-
tion of the Institution should subside, and that in the meantime the
materials for a refutation of the charge might be collected and pre-
pared, to be brought forward at the proper time, if I should think it
necessary.

The article of Mr. Morse was published in 1855, but at the session
of the Board in 1856 I was not prepared to present the case properly
86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

to your consideration, and I now (1857) embrace the first opportunity
of bringing the subject officially to your notice, and asking from you
an investigation into the justice of the charges alleged against me.
And this I do most earnestly, with the desire that when we shall all
have passed from this stage of being, no imputation of having at-
tempted to evadeinsilence so grave a charge shall rest on me, nor on you,
of having continued to devolve upon me duties of the highest respon-
sibility, after that was known to some of you individually, which, if
true, should render me entirely unworthy of your confidence. Duty
to the Board of Regents, as well as regard to my own memory, to my
family, and to the truth of history, demands that I should lay thi
matter before you, and place in your hands the documents necessary
to establish the veracity of my testimony, so falsely impeached, and
the integrity of my motives, so wantonly assailed.

My life, as is known to you, has been principally devoted to science,
and my investigations in different branches of physics have given me
some reputation in the line of original discovery. I have sought,
however, no patent for inventions, and solicited no remuneration for
my labors, but have freely given their results to the world, expecting
only, in return, to enjoy the consciousness of having added, by my in-
vestigations, to the sum of human knowledge, and to receive the
credit to which they might justly entitle me.

I commenced my scientific career about the year 1828, with a series
of experiments in electricity, which were continued at intervals up to
the period of my being honored by election to the office of Secretary
of this Institution. The object of my researches was the advancement
of science, without any special or immediate reference to its applica-
tion to the wants of life or useful purposes in the arts. It is true, nev-
ertheless, that some of my earlier investigations had an important
bearing on the electro-magnetic telegraph, and brought the science to
that point of development at which it was immediately applicable to
Mr. Morse’s particular invention.

In 1831 I published a brief account of these researches, in which I
drew attention to the fact of their applicability to the telegraph ; and
in 1832, and subsequently, exhibited experiments illustrative of the
application of the electro-magnet to the transmission of power to a
distance, for producing telegraphic and other effects. The results I
had published were communicated to Mr. Morse, by his scientific
assistant, Dr. Gale, as will be shown on the evidence of the latter ;
and the facts which I had discovered were promptly applied in render-
ing effective the operation of his machine.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 87

In the latter part of 1837 I became personally acquainted with Mr.
Morse, and at that time, and afterwards, freely gave him information
in regard to the scientific principles which had been the subject of my
investigations. After his return from Europe, in 1839, our intercourse
was renewed, and continued uninterrupted till 1845. In that year,
Mr. Vail, a partner and assistant of Mr. Morse, published a work pur-
porting to be a history of the Telegraph, in which I conceived manifest
injustice was done me. I complained of this to a mutual friend, and
subsequently received an assurance from Mr. Morse that if another
edition were published, all just ground of complaint should be removed,
A new emission of the work, however, shortly afterwards appeared,
without change in this respect, or further reference to my labors. Still
I made no public complaint, and set up no claims on account of the
telegraph. I was content that my published researches should remain
as material for the history of science, and be pronounced upon, accord-
ing to their true value, by the scientific world.

After this, a series of controversies and lawsuits having arisen be-
tween rival claimants for telegraphic patents, I was repeatedly ap-
pealed to, to act as expert and witness in such cases. This I uniformly
declined to do, not wishing to be in any manner involved in these lit-
igations, but was finally compelled, under legal process, to return
to Boston from Maine, whither I had gone on a visit, and to give evi-
dence on the subject. My testimony was given with the statement that
I was not a willing witness, and that I labored under the disadvantage
of not having access to my notes and papers, which were in Washing-
ton. That testimony, however, I now reaffirm to be true in every
essential particular. It was unimpeached before the court, and exer-
cised an influence on the final decision of the question at issue.

I was called upon on that occasion to state, not only what I had pub-
lished, but what I had done, and what I had shown to others in regard
to the telegraph. It was my wish, in every statement, to render Mr.
Morse full and scrupulous justice. While I was constrained, there-
fore, to state that he had made no discoveries in science, I distinctly
declared that he was entitled to the merit of combining and applying
the discoveries of others, in the invention of the best practical form of
the magnetic telegraph. My testimony tended to establish the fact
that, though not entitled to the exclusive use of the electro-magnet for
telegraphic purposes, he was entitled to his particular machine, register,
alphabet, &c. Asthis, however, did not meet the full requirements of
Mr. Morse’s comprehensive claim, I could not but be aware that, while
88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

aiming to depose nothing but truth and the whole truth, and while so
doing being obliged to speak of my own discoveries, and to allude to the
omissions in Mr. Vail’s book, I might expose myself to the possible,
and, as it has proved, the actual, danger of having my motives mis-
construed and my testimony misrepresented. But I can truly aver, in
accordance with the statement of the counsel, Mr. Chase, (now governor
of Ohio,) that I had no desire to arrogate to myself undue merit, or to
detract from the just claims of Mr. Morse.

I have the honor to be your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY.
To THE Boarp or REGENTs.

The Chancellor, Chief Justice Taney, corroborated Prof. Henry’s
statement as to his advising a delay in noticing the publication re-
ferred to until the public mind should be more settled in regard to
the policy of the Institution, and the discussions which had arisen in
Congress in reference to it should be ended.

He stated that it would be seen by the report of the decision of the
Supreme Court, in the case in which Professor Henry was a witness,
that, in the opinion of the court, Professur Morse had produced no
testimony that could invalidate the testimony of Professor Henry, or
impair in any degree its weight, and gave full credit to it in the
udgment it pronounced.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS ON THE
COMMUNICATION OF PROFESSOR HENRY.

Professor Henry laid before the Board of Regents of the Smithso-
nian Institution a communication relative to an article in Shaffner’s
Telegraph Companion, bearing the signature of Samusn F’. B. Morss,
the inventor of the American electro-magnetic telegraph. In this
article serious charges are brought against Professor Henry, bearing
upon his scientific reputation and his moral character. The whole
matter having been referred to a committee of the Board, with in-
structions to report on the same, the committee have attended to the
duty assigned to them, and now submit the following brief report, with
resolutions accompanying it.

The committee have carefully examined the documents relating to
the subject, and especially the article to which the communication of
Professor Henry refers. This article occupies over ninety pages, filling
an entire number of Shaffner’s Journal, and purports to be ‘‘a defence
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 89

against the injurious deductions drawn from the deposition of Professor
Joseph Henry, (in the several telegraph suits,) with a critical review
of said deposition, and an examination of Professor Henry’s alleged
discoveries bearing upon the electro-magnetic telegraph.”’

The first thing which strikes the reader of this article is, that its
title isa misnomer. It is simply an assault upon Professor Henry ;
an attempt to disparage his character ; to deprive him of his honors
as a scientific discoverer ; to impeach his credibility as a witness and
his integrity as a man. It is a disingenuous piece of sophistical
argument, such as an unscrupulous advocate might employ to pervert
the truth, misrepresent the facts, and misinterpret the language in
which the facts belonging to the other side of the case are stated.

Mr. Morse charges that the deposition of Professor Henry ‘‘con<
tains imputations against his (Morse’s) personal character,’’? which
it does not, and assumes it as a duty ‘‘to expose the utter non-
reliability of Professor Henry’s testimony;’’ that testimony being
supported by the most competent authorities, and by the history of
scientific discovery. He asserts that he ‘‘is not indebted to him
(Professor Henry) for any discovery in science bearing on the tele-
graph,’”’ he having himself acknowledged such indebtedness in the
most unequivocal manner, and the fact being independently substan-
tiated by the testimony of Sears C. Wanker, and the statement of
Mr. Morse’s own associate, Dr. Gate. Mr. Morse further maintains,
that all discoveries bearing upon the telegraph were made, not by
Professor Henry, but by others, and prior to any experiments of Pro-
fessor Henry in the science of electro-magnetism ; contradicting in
this proposition the facts in the history of scientific discovery perfectly
established and recognized throughout the scientific world.

The essence of the charges against. Prof. Henry is, that he gave
false testimony in his deposition in the telegraph cases, and that he
has claimed the credit of discoveries in the sciences bearing upon the
electro-magnetic telegraph which were made by previous investigators ;
in other words, that he has falsely claimed what does not belong to
him, but does belong to others.

Professor Henry, as a private man, might safely have allowed such
charges to pass in silence. But standing in the important position
which he occupies, as the chief executive officer of the Smithsonian In-
stitution; and regarding the charges as undoubtedly containing an
impeachment of his moral character, as well as of his scientific repu-
tation ; and justly sensitive, not only for his own honor, but for the
honor of the Institution, he has a right to ask this Board to consider
$0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

the subject, and to make their conclusions a matter of record, which
may be appealed to hereafter should any question arise with regard to
his conduct in the premises.

Your committee do not conceive it to be necessary to follow Mr.
Morse through all the details of his elaborate attack. Fortunately, a
plain statement of a few leading facts will be sufficient to place
the essential points of the case in a clear light.

The deposition already referred to was reluctantly given, and under
the compulsion of legal process, by Prof. Henry, before the Hon. Geo.
S. Hillard, United States commissioner, on the Tth of September, 1849.

The following is the statement of the Hon. S. P. Cuasz, (now gov-
ernor of Ohio,) one of the counsel in the telegraph cases, in a letter
to Professor Henry, dated Columbus, Ohio, November 26, 1856:

In the year 1849, I was professionally employed in the defence of
certain gentlemen engaged in the business of telegraphing between
Louisville and New Orleans, against whom a bill of complaint had
been filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Kentucky. The object of the bill was to restrain the defendants, my
clients, from the use in telegraphing of a certain instrument called
the Columbian Telegraph, on the ground that it was an infringe-
ment upon the rights of the complainants under the patents granted
to Professor Morse. It therefore became my duty, in the preparation
of their defence, to ascertain the precise nature and extent of their
rights. With this view I called upon you, in August or September
of that year, for your deposition. It was taken before George SB.
Hillard, esq., a United States commissioner for the district of Massa-
chusetts, in Boston. L[remember very well that you were unwilling to
be involved in the controversy, even as a witness, and that you only
submitted to be examined in compliance with the requirements of law.
Not one of your statements was volunteered. They wereall called out
by questions propounded either verbally or in writing. I was not suf-
ficiently familiar at the time with the precise merits of the case to
know what would or would not be important, and therefore insisted on
a full statement, not merely of the general history of electro-magnet-
ism as applied to telegraphing, but of all your own discoveries in
that science having relation to the same art, and of all that had passed
between yourself and Professor Morse connected with these discoveries
or with the telegraph. Youcould not have refused to respond to the
questions propounded, without subjecting yourself to judicial animad-
version and constraint. Nothing in what you testified, or your manner
of testifying, suggested to me the idea that you were animated by any
desire to arrogate undue merit to yourself, or to detract from the just
claims of Professor Morse.

8. P. CHASE.

Previous to this deposition, Mr. Morse, as appears from his own
letters and statements, entertained for Prof. Henry the warmest feel-
Ings of personal regard, and the highest esteem for his character as a
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 91

scientific man. In a letter, dated April 24, 1839, he thanks Prof,
Henry for a copy of his ‘‘ valuable contributions,’’ and says, ‘‘I per-
ceive many things (in the contributions) of great interest to me in my
telegraphic enterprise.’’ Again, in the same letter, speaking of an
intended visit to the Professor at Princeton, he says: ‘‘I should come
as a learner, and could bring no ‘contributions’ to your stock of ex-
periments of any value.’’ And still further: ‘‘ I think that you have
pursued an origina) course of experiments, and discovered facts more
immediately bearing upon my invention than any that have been
published abroad.”’

It appears, from Mr. Morse’s own statement, that he had at least
two interviews with Prof. Henry—one in May, 1839, when he passed
the afternoon and night with him, at Princeton ; and another in Feb-
ruary, 1844—both of them for the purpose of conferring with him on
subjects relating to the telegraph, and evidently with the conviction,
on Mr. Morse’s part, that Prof. Henry’s investigations were of great
importance to the success of the telegraph.

As late as 1846, after Mr. \forse had learned that some dissatisfac-
tion existed in Prof. Henry’s mind in regard to the manner in which
his researches in electricity had been passed over by Mr. Vail, an
assistant of Mr. Morse, and the author of a history of the American
magnetic telegraph, Mr. Morse, in an interview with Prof. Henry, at
Washington, said, according to his own account, ‘* Well, Prof. Henry,
I will take the earliest opportunity that is afforded me in anything I
may publish to have justice done to your labors; for I do not think
that justice has been done you, either in Europe or this country.”’

Again, in 1848, when Prof. Walker, of the Coast Survey, made
his report on the theory of Morse’s electro-magnetic telegraph, in
which the expression occurred, ‘‘ the helix of a soft iron magnet,
prepared after the manner first pointed out by Prof. Henry,’’ Mr.
Morse, to whom the report was submitted, said: ‘‘I have now the
long wished for opportunity to do justice publicly to Henry’s dis-
covery bearing on the telegraph.’’ Andina note prepared by him,
and intended to be printed with Prof. Walker’s report, he says:
“<The allusion you make to the helix of a soft iron magnet, prepared ©
after the manner first pointed out by Prof. Henry, gives me an op-
portunity, of which I gladly avail myself, to say that I think that
justice has not yet been done to Prof. Henry, either in Europe or in
this country, for the discovery of a scientific fact, which, in its bear-
ing on telegraphs, whether of the magnetic needle or electro-magnet
order, is of the greatest importance.”’
92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

He then proceeds to give a historical synopsis, showing that,
although suggestions had been made and plans devised by Soemmering,
in 1811, and by Ampére, in 1820, yet that the experiments of Barlow,
in 1824, had led that investigator to pronounce ‘‘ the idea of an elec-
tric telegraph to be chimerical’’—an opinion that was, for the time,
acquiesced in by scientific men. He shows that, in the interval be-
tween 1824 and 1829, no further suggestions were made on the sub-
ject of electric telegraphs. But he proceeds—‘ In 1830, Prof. Henry,
assisted by Dr. Ten Eyck, while engaged in experinients on the ap-
plication of the principle of the galvanic multiplier to the development
of great magnetic power in soft iron, made the important discovery
that a battery of intensity overcame that resistance in a long wire
which Barlow had announced as an insuperable bar to the construc-
tion of electric telegraphs. Thus was opened the way for fresh efforts
in devising a practicable electric telegraph ; and Baron Schilling, in
1832, and Professors Gauss and Weber, in 1833, had ample oppor-
tunity to learn of Henry’s discovery, and avail themselves of it, before
they constructed their needle telegraphs.’’ And, while claiming for
himself that he was’‘ the first to propose the use of the electro-magnet
for telegraphic purposes, and the first to construct a telegraph on the
basis of the electro-magnet,’’ yet he adds, ‘‘to Professor Henry is
unquestionably due the honor of the discovery of a principle which proves
the practicability of exciting magnetism through a long coil, or at a dis-
tance, either to deflect a needle or to magnetize soft tron.’’

What Mr. Morse here describes as ‘‘a priaciple,’’ the discovery of
which is unquestionably due to Professor Henry, is the law which
first made it possible to work the telegraphic machine invented by
Mr. Morse, and for the knowledge of which Mr. Morse was indebted to
Professor Henry, as is positively asserted by his associate, Dr. Gatun.

This gentleman, in a letter, dated Washington, April 7, 1856, makes
the following conclusive statement :

Wasurnetcn, D. C., April 7, 1856.

Sir: In reply to your note of the 3d instant, respecting the Morse
telegraph, asking me to state definitely the condition of the invention
when I first saw the apparatus in the winter of 1836, I answer: This
apparatus was Morse’s original instrument, usually known as the type
apparatus, in which the types, set up in a composing stick, were run
through a circuit breaker, and in which the battery was the cylinder
battery, with a single pair of plates. This arrangement also had another
peculiarity, namely, it was the electro-magnet used by Moll, and shown
in drawings of the older works on that subject, having only a few
turns of wire in the coil which surrounded the poles or arms of the
magnet. The sparseness of the wires in the magnet coils and the use
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 95

of the single cup battery were to me, on the first look at the instru-
ment, obvious marks of defect, and I accordingly suggested to the
Professor, without giving my reasons for so doing, that a battery of
many pairs should be substituted for that of a single pair, and that
the coil on each arm of the magnet should be increased to many hun-
dred turns each ; which experiment, if I remember aright, was made
on the same day with a battery aud wire on hand, furnished I believe
by myself, and it was found that while the original arrangement
would only send the electric current through a few feet of wire, say
15 to 40, the modified arrangement would send it through as many
hundred. Although I gave no reasons at the time to Professor Morse
for the suggestions I had proposed in modifying the arrangement of
the machine, I did so afterwards, and referred in my explanations to
the paper of Professor Henry, in the 19th volume of the American
Journal of Science, page 400 and onward. It was to these sugges-
tions of mine that Professor Morse aliudes in his testimony before
the circuit court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, in the trial
of B. B. French and others vs. Rogers and others.—See printed copy
of Complainant’s Evidence, page 168, beginning with the words
‘¢Harly in 1836 I procured 40 feet of wire,’”’ &c., and page 169, where
Professor Morse alludes to myself and compensation for services ren-
dered to him, &e.

At the time I gave the suggestions above named, Professor Morse
was not familiar with the then existing state of the science of electro-
magnetism. Had he been so, or had he read and appreciated the
paper of Henry, the suggestions made by me would naturally have
occurred to his mind as they did to my own. But the principal part
of Morse’s great invention lay in the mechanical adaptation of a power
to produce motion, and to increase or relax at will. It was only
necessary for him to know that such a power existed for him to adapt
mechanism to direct aud control it.

My suggestions were made to Professor Morse from inferences
drawn by reading Professor Henry’s paper above alluded to. Profes-
sor Morse professed great surprise at the contents of the paper when
I showed it to him, but especially at the remarks on Dr. Barlow’s re-
sults respecting telegraphing, which were new to him, and he stated
at the time that he was not aware that any one had even conceived
the idea of using the magnet for such purposes.

With sentiments of esteem, I remain yours truly,
L. D. GALE.

Prof. Jos. Henry,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

It further appears, that principally for the information thus commu-
nicated Mr. Morse assigned to Dr. Gale an interest in the telegraph,
which he afterwards purchased back for $15,000, as appears from the
following letter of Dr. Gale:

Patent Orrice, August 5, 1857.

Dear Sir: In reply to yours of this date, respecting the interest I
once possessed in Morse’s telegraph patent, secured to me by the said
Morse, as alluded to by him in his statement to the Commissioner of
94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

Patents, I would simply state that the part I owned when I entered
the service of the government in this office was orginally given me by
the said Morse for services rendered him in making his invention
practically effective in sending currents through long distances, &c.,
and that the said interest was retransferred to the said Morse for the
sum of fifteen thousand dollars.
Respectfully,
L. D. GALE,
Professor HEnry,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

It thus appears, both from Mr. Morse’s own admission down to
1848, and from the testimony of others most familiar with the facts,
that Professor Henry discovered the law, or ‘‘ principle,’’ as Mr. Morse
designates it, which was necessary to make the practical working of
the electro-magnetic telegraph at considerable distances possible; that
Mr. Morse was first informed of this discovery by Dr. Gale; that he
availed himself of it at once, and that it never occurred to Mr. Morse
to deny this fact until after 1848. He had steadily and fully acknow-
ledged the merits and genius of Mr. Henry, as the discoverer of facts
and laws in science of the highest importance to the success of his
long-cherished invention of a magnetic telegraph. Mr. Henry was
the discoverer of a principle, Mr. Morse was the inventor of a machine,
the object of which was to record characters at a disiance, to convey
intelligence, in other words, to carry into execution the idea of an
electric telegraph. But there were obstacles in the way which he
could not overcome until he learned the discoveries of Professor Henry,
and applied them to his machine. These facts are undeniable. They
constitute a part of the history of science and invention. They were
true in 1848, they were equally true in 1855, when Professor Morse’s
article was published. We give a passage here from the deposition
of Sears C. WALKER, in the case of French vs. Rogers, Respondent's
Evidence, page 199, bearing upon this whole subject:

‘¢In consequence of some statements made by me in my official
reports relative to the invention of the receiving magnet, a question
arose between Mr. Morse and myself as to the origin of this invention.
It was amicably discussed by Mr. Morse, Professor Henry, Dr. Gale,
and myself, with Professor Henry’s article, alluded to in answer to
the second question before us. The result of the interview was con-
clusive to my mind that Professor Henry was the sole discoverer of
the law on which the intensity magnet depends for its power of send-
ing the galvanic current through a long circuit. I was also led to
conclude that Mr. Morse, in the course of his own researches and ex-
periments before he had read Professor Henry’s article, before alluded

to, had encountered the same difficulty Mr. Barlow and those who
preceded him had encountered, that is, the impossibility of forcing
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 95

the galvanic current through a long telegraph line. His own per-
sonal researches had not overcome this obstacle. They were made in
the laboratory of the New York University. I also learned at the
same time, by the conversations above stated, that he only overcame
this obstacle by constructing a magnet on the principle invented by Pro-
fessor Henry, and described in his article in Silliman’s Journal. His
attention was directed to it by Dr. Gale.’’

What changed Mr. Morse’s opinion of Professor Henry, not only
as a scientific investigator, but as a man of integrity, after the admis-
sions of his indebtedness to his researches, and the oft repeated ex-
pressions of warm personal regard? It appears that Mr. Morse was
involved in a number of lawsuits, growing out of contested claims to
the right of using electricity for telegraphic purposes. The circum-
stances under which Professor Henry, as a well known investigator in
this department of physics, was summoned by one of the parties to
testify have already been stated. The testimony of Mr. Henry, while
supporting the claims of Mr. Morse as the inventor of an admirable
invention, denied to him the additional merit of being a discoverer of
new facts or laws of nature, and to this extent, perhaps, was consid-
ered unfavorable to some part of the claim of Mr. Morse to an exelu-
sive right to employ the electro-magnet for telegraphic purposes.
Professor Henry’s deposition consists of a series of answers to verbal,
as well as written, interrogatories propounded to him, which were not
limited to his published writings, or the subject of electricity, but ex-
tended to investigations and discoveries in general having a bearing
upon the electric telegraph. He gave his testimony at a distance
from his notes and manuscripts, and it would not have been surprising
if inaccuracies had occurred in some parts of his statement; but all
the material points in it are sustained by independent testimony, and
that portion which relates directly to Mr. Morse agrees entirely with
the statement of his own assistant, Dr. Gale. Had his deposition
been objectionable, it ought to have been impeached before the Court;
but this was not attempted; and the following tribute to Professor
Henry by the judge, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the United States, indicates the impression made upon the Court
itself by all the testimony in the case: ‘‘ It is due to him to say that
no one has contributed more to enlarge the knowledge of electro-
magnetism, and to lay the foundations of the great invention of which
we are speaking, than the Professor himself.’’

Professor Henry’s answers to the first and second interrogatories
present a condensed history of the progress of the science of electro-
magnetism, as connected with telegraphic communication, embracing
95 PROCEEDINGS OF TIE REGENTS.

an account of the discoveries of Oersted, Arago, Davy, Ampére; of
the investigations by Barlow and Sturgeon; of his own researches,
commenced in 1828, and continued in 1829, 1830, and subsequently.
The details of his experiments and their results, though brief, are
very precise. There is abundant evidence to show that Professor
Henry’s experiments and illustrations at Albany, and subsequently
at Princeton, proved, and were declared at the time by him to prove,
that the electric telegraph was now practicable; that the electro-
magnet might be used to produce mechanical effects at a distance
adequate to making signals of various kinds, such as ringing bells,
which he practically illustrated. In proof of this, we quote a letter
to Professor Henry, from Professor James Haun, of Albany, late
president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science:

JANUARY 19, 1856.

Dear Sir: While a student of the Rensselaer School, in Troy,
New York, in August, 1832, I visited Albany with a friend, having
a letter of introduction to you from Professor Eaton. Our principal
object was to see your electro-magnetic apparatus, of which we had
heard much, and at the same time the library and collections of the
Albany Institute.

You showed us your laboratory in a lower story or basement of
the building, and in a larger room in an upper story some electric
and galvanic apparatus, with various philosophical instruments. In
this room, and extending around the same, was a circuit of wire
stretched along the wall, and at one termination of this, in the recess
of a window, a bell was fixed, while the other extremity was con-
nected with a galvanic apparatus.

You showed us the manner in which the bell could be made to ring
by a current of electricity, transmitted through this wire, and you
remarked that this method might be adopted tor giving signals, by
the ringing of a bell at the distance of many miles from the point of
its connexion with the galvanic apparatus.

All the circumstances attending this visit to Albany are fresh in my
recollection, and during the past years, while so much has been said
respecting the invention of electric telegraphs, | have often had occa-
sion to mention the exhibition of your electric telegraph in the Albany
Academy, in 1832.

If at any time or under any circumstances this statement can be of
service to you in substantiating your claim to such a discovery at the

erlod named, you are at liberty to use it in any manner you please,
and I shall be ready at all times to repeat and sustain what I have
here stated, with many other attendant circumstances, should they
prove of any importance.

I remain very sincerely and respectfully yours,
JAMS HALL.

Professor JosrpH Hunry.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, 97

In his deposition, Prof. Henry’s statements are within what he
might fairly have claimed. But he is a man of science, looking for
no other reward than the consciousness of having done something for
its promotion, and the reputation which the successful prosecution of
scientific investigations and discoveries may justly be expected to give.
In his public lectures and published writings he has often pointed out
incidentally the possibility of applying the facts and laws of nature
discovered by him to practical purposes ; he has freely communicated
information to those who have sought it from him, among whom has
been Mr. Morse himself, as appears by his own acknowledgments.
But he has never applied his scientific discoveries to practical ends for
his own pecuniary benefit. It was natural, therefore, that he should
feel a repugnance to taking any part in the litigation between rival
inventors, and it was inevitable that, when forced to give his testi-
mony, he should distinctly point out what was so clear in his own
mind and is so fundamental a fact in the history of human progress,
the distinctive functions of the discoverer and the inventor who ap-
plies discoveries to practical purposes in the business of life.

Mr. Henry has always done full justice to the invention of Mr.
Morse. While he could not sanction the claim of Mr. Morse to the
exclusive use of the electro-magnet, he has given him full credit for
the mechanical contrivances adapted to the application of his invention.
In proof of this we refer to his deposition, and present also the following
statement of Hon. Cuartus Mason, Commissioner of Patents, taken
from a letter addressed by him to Prof. Henry, dated March 31, 1856:

U.S. Patent Orrics, March 31, 1856.

Sir: Agreeably to your request I now make the following state-
ment:

Some two years since, when an application was made for an exten-
sion of Prof. Morse’s patent, I was for some time in doubt as to the pro-
priety of making that extension. Under these circumstances I con-
sulted with several persons, and among others with yourself, with a
view particularly to ascertain the amount of invention fairly due to
Prof. Morse.

The result of my inquiries was such as to induce me to grant the
extension. I will further say that this was in accordance with your
express recommendation, and that I was probably more influenced by
this recommendation, and the information I obtained from you, than
by any other circumstance, in coming to that conclusion,

I am, sir, yours very respectfully,
CHARLES MASON.
Prof. J. Henry.

To sum up the results of the preceding investigation in a few words

7s
98 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

We have shown that Mr. Morse himself has acknowledged the value
of the discoveries of Prof. Henry to his electric telegraph; that his
associate and scientific assistant, Dr. Gale, has distinctly affirmed that
these discoveries were applied to his telegraph, and that previous to
such application it was impossible for Mr. Morse to operate his instru-
ment at a distance; that Prof. Henry’s experiments were witnessed
by Prof. Hall and others in 1832, and that these experiments showed
the possibility of transmitting to a distance a force capable of pro-
ducing mechanical effects adequate to making telegraphic signals ;
that Mr. Henry’s deposition of 1849, which evidently furnished the
motive for Mr. Morse’s attack upon him, is strictly correct in all the
historical details, and that, so far as it relates to Mr. Henry’s own
claim as a discoverer, is within what he might have claimed with en-
tire justice; that he gave the deposition reluctantly, and in no spirit
of hostility to Mr. Morse; that on that and other occasions he fully
admitted the merit of Mr. Morse as an inventor; and that Mr. Morse’s
patent was extended through the influence of the favorable opinion
expressed by Professor Henry.

Your committee come unhesitatingly to the conclusion that Mr.
Morse has failed to substantiate any one ot the charges he has made
against Prof. Henry, although the burden of proof lay upon him; and
that all the evidence, including the unbiased admissions of Mr. Morse
himself, is on the other side. Mr. Morse’s charges not only remain
unproved but they are positively disproved.

Your committee recommend the adoption of the following resolu-
tions :

Resolved, That Professor Morse has not succeeded in refuting the
statements of Professor Henry in the deposition given by the latter in
1849; that he has not proved any one of the accusations against Prof.
Henry made in the article in Shaffner’s Telegraph Companion in 1855,
and that he has not disproved any one of his own admissions in re-
gard to Prof. Henry’s discoveries in electro-magnetism, and their im-
portance to his own invention of the electro-magnetic telegraph.

Resolved, That there is nothing in Professor Morse’s article that di-
winishes, in the least, the confidence of this Board in the integrity of
Prof. Henry, or in the value of those great discoveries which have
placed his name among those of the most distinguished cultivators of
science, and have done much to exalt the scientific reputation of the
country.

Resolved, That this report, with the resolutions, be recorded in the
Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 99

The report was accepted and the resolutions were unanimously
adopted. The Board then adjourned sine die.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE.

STATEMENT OF PROFESSOR HENRY IN RELATION TO THE HISTORY OF THE
| ELECTRO-MAGNETIC TELEGRAPH.

In the beginning of my deposition I was requested to give a sketch
of the history of electro-magnetism having a bearing on the telegraph,
and the account I then gave from memory I have since critically
‘examined and find it fully corroborated by reference to the original
authorities. My sketch, which was the substance of what I had been
in the habit of giving in my lectures, was necessarily very concise, and
almost exclusively confined to one class of facts, namely, those having
a direct bearing on Mr. Morse’s invention, and my paper in Silliman’s
Journal was likewise very brief and intended merely for scientific
‘men. In order, therefore, to set forth more clearly in what my own
improvements consisted it may be proper to give a few additional
particulars respecting some points in the progress of discovery, illus-
trated by wood cuts.

_ There are several forms of the electrical telegraph: first, that in
which frictional electricity has been proposed to produce sparks and
‘motion of pith balls at a distance.
Second, that in which galvanism has been employed to produce
signals by means of bubbles of gas from the decomposition of water.
Third, that in which electro-magnetism is the motive power to
produce motion at a distance; and again, of the latter there are two
kinds of telegraph, those in which the intelligence is indicated by the
motion of a magnetic needle, and those in which sounds and per-
manent signs are made by the attraction of an electro-magnet. The
latter is the class to which Mr. Morse’s invention belongs. The fol--
lowing is a brief exposition of the several steps which led to this-form
of the telegraph.
The first essential fact, as I stated in my testimony, which ren--
dered the electro-magnetic telegraph possible -was discovered by -
—Oersted, in the winter of 1819-’20. It is illustrated by figure 1, in:
which the magnetic gener
needle is deflected by
the action of a cur- 4
rent of galvanism
transmitted through
the wire A B. (See Annals of Philosophy, vol. 16, page 273.)

*

100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS,

The second fact of importance, discovered in 1820, by Arago and
Fig. 2.

Davy, is illustrated in
figure 2. It consists
in this, that while a
current of galvanism is
passing through a cop-
per wire A B, it is
magnetic, it attracts iron filings and not those of copper or brass, and
is capable of developing magnetism in soft iron. (See Annales de
Chimie, vol. 15, page 94.)

The next important discovery, also made in 1820, by Ampére, was
that two wires through which galvanic currents are passing in the
same direction attract, and in opposite direction repel, each other.
On this fact Ampére founded his celebrated theory, that magnetism

-onsists merely in the attraction of electrical currents revolving at

right angles to the line joining the two poles of the magnet. The
magnetisation of a bar of steel or iron, according to this theory, con-

_sists in establishing within the metal by induction a series of electrical

. currents, all revolving in the same direction at right angles to the
, axis or length of the bar. (See Annales de Chimie, vol. 15, page 69.)

It was this theory which led Arago, as he states, to adopt the method
of magnetizing sewing needles and pieces of steel wire, shown in
Fig. 3, figure 3. This method

=e consists in transmit-

ting a current of elec-
tricity through a helix

_gurrounding the needle or wire to be magnetized. For the

purpose of insulation the needle was inclosed in a glass tube, and the
several turns of the helix were at a distance from each other to insure
the passage of electricity, through the whole length of the wire, or, in

_other words, to prevent it from seeking a shorter passage by cutting

across from one spire to another. The helix employed by Arago

. obviously approximates the arrangement required by the theory of

_ Ampére, in order to develop by induction the magnetism of the iron.

By an attentive perusal of the original account of the experiments of
Arago, given in the Annales de Chimie et Physique, vol. XV, 1820,
page 93, it will be seen that, properly speaking, he made no electro-
magnet, as has been asserted by Morse and others; his experiments

_ were confined to the magnetism of iron filings, to sewing needles and
_ pieces of steel wire of the diameter of a millimetre, or of about the

thickness of a small knitting needle. (See Annales de Chimie, vol.

15, page 95.)
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 101

Mr. Sturgeon, in 1825, made an important step in advance of the
experiments of Arago, and produced what is properly known as the
electro-magnet. He bent a piece of iron wire into the form of a horse-
shoe, covered it with varnish to insulate it, and surrounded it with a
helix, of which the spires were at a distance. When a current of
galvanism was passed through the helix from a small battery of a
single cup the iron wire became magnetic, and continued so during
the passage of the current. When the current was interrupted the
magnetism disappeared, and thus was produced the first temporary
soft iron magnet.

The electro-magnet of Sturgeon is shown Fig. 4.
in figure 4, which is an exact copy from the
drawing in the Transactions of the Society
for the Encouragement of Arts, &c., vol.
XLII. By comparing figures 3 and 4

by Sturgeon was of the same kind as that ‘
used by Arago; instead, however, of ve
straight steel wire inclosed in a tube of
glass, the former employed a bent wire of soft iron. The difference
in the arrangement at first sight might appear to be small, but the
difference in the results produced was important, since the temporary
magnetism developed in the arrangement of Sturgeon was sufficient
to support a weight of several pounds, and an instrument was thus
produced of value in future research.

The next improvement was made by myself. After reading an
account of the galvanometer of Schweigger, the idea occurred to me that
a much nearer approximation to the requirements of the theory of
Ampére could be attained by insulating the conducting wire itself,
instead of the rod to be magnetized, and by covering the whole sur-
face of the iron with a series of coils in close contact. This was
effected by insulating a long wire with silk thread, and winding this
around the rod of iron in close coils from one end to the other. The
same principle was extended by employing a still Fig. 5:
longer insulated wire, and winding several strata
of this over the first, care being taken to insure
the insulation between each stratum by a cover-°
ing of silk ribbon. By this arrangement the rod
was surrounded by a compound helix formed of a
long wire of many coils, instead of a single helix
of a few coils, (figure 5.)

102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

In the arrangement of Arago and Sturgeon the several turns of
wire were not precisely at right angles to the axis of the rod, as they
should be, to produce the effect required by the theory, but slightly
oblique, and therefore each tended to develop a separate magnetism
not coincident with the axis of the bar. But in winding the wire
over itself the obliquity of the several turns compensated each
other, and the resultant action was at right angles to tle bar, The
arrangement then introduced by myself was superior to those of
Arago and Sturgeon, first in the greater multiplicity of turns of wire,
and second in the better application of these turns to the development
of magnetism. The power of the instrument, with the same amount
of galvanic force, was by this arrangement several times increased.

The maximum effect, however, with this arrangement and a single
battery was not yet obtained. After a certain length of wire had
been coiled upon the iron the power diminished with a further in-
crease of the number of turns. This was due to the increased resist-
ance which the longer wire offered to the conduction of electricity,
Two methods of improvement therefore suggested themselves. The
first consisted, not in increasing the length of the coil, but in using
a number of separate cvils on the same piece of iron. By this ar-
rangement the resistance to the conduction of the electricity was
diminished and a greater quantity made to circulate around the iron
from the same battery. The second method of producing a similar
result consisted in increasing the number of elements of the battery,
or, in other words, the projectile force of the electricity, which enabled
it to pass through an increased number of turns of wire, and thus,

ee: by increasing the length of the wire, to develop
a, » the maximum power of the iron.
= To test these principles on a larger scale the
experimental magnet was constructed, which is
shown in figure 6. In thisa number of com-
pound helices were placed on the same bar, their
ends left projecting, and so numbered that they
could be all united into one long helix, or va-
riously combined in sets of lessser length.

From a series of experiments with this and other magnets it was
proved that, in order to produce the greatest amount of magnetism
from a battery of a single cup, a number of helices is required; but
when a compound battery is used then one long wire must be em-
ployed, making many turns around the iron, the length of wire and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, 103

consequently the number of turns being commensurate with the pro-
jectile power of the battery.

In describing the results of my experiments the terms intensi/y and
quantity magnets were introduced to avoid circumlocution, and were
intended to be used merely in a technical sense. By the intensity
magnet I designated a piece of soft iron, so surrounded with wire
that its magnetic power could be called into operation by an intensity
battery, and by a quantity magnet, a piece of iron so surrounded by a
number of separate coils that its magnetism could be fully developed
by a quantity battery.

I was the first to point out this connexion of the two kinds of
the battery with the two forms of the maguet in my paper in Silli-
man’s Journal, January 1831, and clearly to state that when mag-
netism was to be developed by means of a compound battery, one long
coil was to be employed, and when the maximum effect was to be pro-
duced by a single battery, a number of single strands were to be used.

These steps in the advance of electro-magnetism though small, were
such as to interest and astonish the scientific world. With the same
battery used by Mr. Sturgeon, at least a hundred times more mag-
netism was produced than could have been obtained by his experiment.
The developments were considered at the time of much importance
in ascientific point of view, and they subsequently furnished the means
by which magneto-electricity, the phenomena of dia-magnetism, and
the magnetic effects on polarized light were discovered. They gave
rise to the various forms of electro-magnetic machines which have
since exercised the ingenuity of inventors in every part of the world,
and were of immediate applicability in the introduction of the magnet
to telegraphic purposes. Neither the electro-magnet of Sturgeon nor
any electro-magnet ever made previous to my investigations wag
applicable to transmitting power to a distance.

The principles I have developed were properly appreciated by the
scientific mind of Dr. Gale, and applied by him to operate Mr. Morse’s
machine at a distance.

Previous to my investigations the means of developing magnetism
in soft iron were imperfectly understood. The electro-magnet made
by Sturgeon, and copied by Dana, of New York, was an imperfect
quantity magnet, the feeble power of which was developed by a single
battery. It was entirely inapplicable to a long circuit with an inten-
sity battery, and no person possessing the requisite scientific know-
104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS

ledge would have attempted to use it in that connexion after reading
my paper.

In sending a message to a distance two circuits are employed, the
first a long circuit through which the electricity is sent to the distant
station to bring into action the second, a short one, in which is the ©
local battery and magnet for working the machine. In order to give
projectile force sufficient to send the power to a distance, it is neces-
sary to use an intensity battery in the long circuit, and in connexion
with this, at the distant station, a magnet surrounded with many
turns of one long wire must be employed to receive and multiply the
effect of the current enfeebled by its transmission through the long
conductor. In the local or short circuit either an intensity or a quan-
tity magnet may be employed. If the first be used, then with it a
compound battery will be required ; and, therefore, on account of the
increased resistance due to the greater quantity of acid, a less amount
of work will be performed by a given amount of material; and, con-
sequently, though this arrangement is practicable it is by no means
economical. In my original paper I state that the advantages of a
greater conducting power, from. using several wires in the quantity
magnet, may, in a less degree, be obtained by substituting for them one
large wire; but in this case, on account of the greater obliquity of
the spires and other causes, the magnetic effect would be less. In
accordance with these principles, the receiving magnet, or that which
is introduced into the long circuit, consists of a horse-shoe magnet
surrounded with many hundred turns of a single long wire, and is
operated with a battery of from 12 to 24 elements or more, while in
the local circuit it is customary to employ a battery of one or two
elements with a much thicker wire and fewer turns.

It will, I think, be evident to the impartial reader that these were
improvements in the electro-magnet which first rendered it adequate
to the transmission of mechanical power to a distance; and had I
omitted all allusion to the telegraph in my paper, the conscientious
historian of science would have awarded me some credit, however
small might have been the advance which I made. Arago and Stur-
geon, in the accounts of their experiments, make no mention of the tel-
egraph, and yet their names always have been and will be associated
with the invention. I briefly, however, called attention to the fact of
the applicability of my experiments to the construction of the tele-
graph; but not being familiar with the history of the attempts made
in regard to this invention, I called it ‘‘Barlow’s project,’’ while I ought
to have stated that Mr. Barlow’s investigation merely tended to dis-
prove the possibility of a telegraph.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 105

I did not refer exclusively to the needle telegraph when, in my
paper, I stated that the magnetic action of a current from a trough is at
Jeast not sensibly diminished by passing through a long wire. This
is evident from the fact that the immediate experiment from which
this deduction was made was by means of an electro-magnet and not
by means of a needle galvanometer.

At the conclusion of the series of experiments which I described in

Silliman’s Journal, there were two applications of the electro-magnet
in my mind: one the production of a machine to be moved by electro-
magnetism, and the other the transmission of or calling into action
power at a distance. The first was carried into execution in the con-
struction of the machine described in Silliman’s Journal, vol. 20, 1831,
and for the purpose of experimenting in regard to the second, [I ar-
ranged around one of the upper rooms in the Albany Academy a
wire of more than a mile in length, through which I was enabled to
make signals by sounding a bell, (fig. Fig. 7.
7.) The mechanical arrangement for
affecting this object was simply a
steel bar, permanently magnetized, of
about ten inches in length, supported
on a pivot and placed with its north
end between the two arms of a horse-
shoe magnet. When the latter was
excited by the current, the end of the
bar thus placed was attracted by one
arm of the horse-shoe, and repelled
by the other, and was thus caused to
move in a horizontal plane and its further extremity to strike a bell
suitably adjusted.

This arrangement is that which is alluded to in Professor Hall’s
letter* as having been exhibited to him in 1832 It was not, however,
at that time connected with the long wire above mentioned, but with
a shorter one put up around the room for exhibition.

At the time of giving my testimony, I was uncertain as to when I
had first exhibited this contrivance, but have:since definitely settled
the fact by the testimony of Hall and others that it was before I left
Albany, and abundant evidence can be brought to show that previous
to my going to Princeton in November, 1832, my mind was much
occupied with the subject of the telegraph, and that I introduced it in
my course of instruction to the senior classin the Academy. I should

* See the Report of the Committee, page 96, and Proceedings of the Albany Institute,
anuary, 1858.
106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

state, however, that the arrangement that I have described was merely
a temporary one, and that I had no idea at the time of abandoning
my researches for the practical application of the telegraph. Indeed,
my experiments on the transmission of power to a distance were super-
seded by the investigation of the remarkable phenomena, which I had
discovered in the course of these experiments, of the induction of a
current in a long wire on itself, and of which I made the first mention
in a paper in Silliman’s Journal in 1832, vol. 22.

I also devised a method of breaking a circuit, and thereby causing a
large weight to fall. It was intended to illustrate the practicability of
calling into action a great power at a distance capable of producing
mechanical effects; but as a description of this was not printed, I do
not place it in the same category with the experiments of which I
published an account, or the facts which could be immediately de-
duced from my papers in Silliman’s Journal.

From a careful investigation of the history of electro-magnetism
in its connexion with the telegraph, the following facts may be es-
tablished :

1. Previous to my investigations the means of developing magnetism
in soft iron were imperfectly understood, and the electro-magnet
which then existed was inapplicable to the transmission of power to a
distance.

2. I was the first to prove by actual experiment that, in order to
develop magnetic power at a distance, a galvanic battery of intensity
must be employed to project the current through the long conductor,
and that a magnet surrounded by many turns of one long wire must be
used to receive this current.

3. I was the first actually to magnetize a piece of iron at a distance,
and to call attention to the fact of the applicability of my experiments
to the telegraph.

4. I was the first to actually sound a bell at a distance by means of
the electro-magnet,

5. The principles I had developed were applied by Dr. Gale to
render Morse’s machine effective at a distance.

The results here given were among my earliest experiments ; in a
scientific point of view I considered them of much less importance
than what I subsequently accomplished ; and had I not been called
upon to give my testimony in regard to them, I would have suffered
them to remain without calling public attention to them, a part of the
history of science to be judged of by scientific men who are the best
qualified to pronounce upon their merits.
PROCEEDINGS OF 'rTHE REGENTS. 107

DEPOSITION OF JOSEPH HENRY, IN THE CASE OF
MORSE vs. O’RELLLY,

TAKEN AT BOSTON, SEPTEMBER, 1849.
[From the Record of the Supreme Court of the United States. |

1. Please state your place of residence and your occupation ; also,
what attention, if any, you have given to the subjects of electricity,
magnetism, and electro-magnetism.

Answer,—I begin this deposition with the express statement that I
do not voluntarily give my testimony; but that I appear on legal
summons, and in submission to law. Iam Secretary to the Smith-
sonian Institution, established in the city of Washington, where I
now reside. The principal direction of the Institution is confided to
me. As I do not expect to return to Washington until some time in
October, I have been called upon to give my testimony here in Boston;
on this account I labor under the disadvantage of beiag obliged to
testify without my notes and papers, which are now in Washington.

I commenced the study of electro-magnetism in 1827 ; and since then
have, at different times, [until] within the last two and a halt years,
when I became Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, made original
investigations in this and kindred branches of physical science. I know
no person in our couutry who has paid more attention to the study of
the principles of electro-magnetism than myself.

2. Please give a general account of the progress of the science of
electro magnetism, as connected with telegraphic communication ; and
of any inventions or discoveries in electro-magnetism applicable to
the telegraph, made by yourself.

Answer.—I consider an electro-magnetic telegraph as one which
operates by the combined influence of electricity and magnetism. Prior
to the winter of 1819—’20, no form of the electro-magnetic telegraph
was possible; the scientific principles on which it is founded were
then unknown. The first fact of electro-magnetism was discovered
by Oersted, of Copenhagen, during that winter. It is this: A wire
being placed close above, or below, and parallel to a magnetic needle,
and a galvanic current being transmitted through the wire, the needle
will tend to place itself at right angles to it. This fact was widely
published, and the account was everywhere received with interest.

The second fact of importance was discovered independently, and
about the same time, by Arago, at Paris, and Davy, at London. It
is this: During the transmission of a galvanic current through a wire
of copper, or any other metal, the wire exhibits magnetic properties,
attracting iron, but not copper filings, and having the power of in-
ducing permanent magnetism in steel needles. The next important
fact was discovered by Ampére, of Paris, one of the most sagacious
and successful cultivators of physical science in the present century.
It is this: Two parallel wires through which galvanic currents are
passing ia the same direction, attract each other; but if the currents
108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

pass in opposite directions, they repel each other. On this fact
Ampére founded his ingenious theory of magnetism and electro-mag-
netism. According to this theory, all magnetic phenomena result
from the attraction or repulsion of electric currents, supposed to exist
in the iron at right angles to the length of the bar; and that all the
phenomena of magnetism and electro magnetism are thus referred to
one principle, namely, the action of electrical currents on each other.

Ampere deduced from this theory many interesting results, which
were afterwards verified by experiment. He also proposed to the
French Academy a plan for the application of electro-magnetism to
the transmission of intelligence to a distance; this consisted in de-
flecting a number of needles at the place of receiving intelligence, by
galvanic currents transmitted through long wires. This transmission
was to be effected by completing a galvanic circuit. When completed,
the needle was deflected. When interrupted, it returned to its ordi-
nary position, under the influence of the attraction of the earth. This
project of Ampére was never reduced to practice. All these discoveries
and results were prior to 1823.

The next investigations relating to the magnetic telegraph were
published in 1825 ; ‘they were by Mr. Barlow, of the Royal Military
Academy of Woolwich, England. He found that there was creat
diminution in the power of the galvanic current to produce effects
with an increase of distance; a diminution so great in a distance of
two hundred feet was observed, as to convince him of the impractica-
bility of the scheme of the electro-magnetic telegraph. His experi-
ments led him to conclude that the power was inversely as the
square root of the length of the wire. The publication of these
results put at rest, for a time, all attempts to construct an electro-
magnetic telegraph.

The next investigations, in the order of time, bearing on the tele-
graph, were made by Mr. Sturgeon, of England. He bent a piece of
iron wire into the form of a horse-shoe, and put loosely around it a
coil of copper wire, with wide intervals between the turns or spires
to prevent them touching each other, and through this coil he trans-
mitted a current of galvanism. The iron, under the influence of this
current, became magnetic, and thus was produced the first electro-
magnetic magnet, sometimes called simply the electro-magnet. An
account of this experiment was first published in November, 1825, in
the Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of the Arts in
England ; and was made known in this country through the Annals
of Philosophy for November, 1826.

Nothing further was done pertaining to the telegraph until my
own researches in electro-magnetism, which were commenced in 1828,
and continued in 1829, 1830, and subsequently ; Barlow’s results, as
I before observed, had prevented all attempts to construct a magnetic
telegraph on the plan of Ampére, and our own knowledge of the de-
velopment’ of magnetism in soft iron, as left by Sturgeon, was not
such as to be applicable to telegraphic purposes. The electro-magnet
of Sturgeon could not be made to act by a current through a long
wire, as will be apparent hereafter in this deposition.

After repeating the experiments of Oersted, Ampére, and others,
and publishing an account in 1828 of various modifications of electro-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 109

magnetic apparatus, I commenced in that year the investigation of
the laws of the development of magnetism in soft iron, by means of
the electrical current. The first idea that occurred to me in accord-
ance with the theory of Ampére, with reference to increasing the
power of the electro-magnet, was that of using a longer wire than
had before been employed. A wire of sixty feet in length, covered
with silk, was wound round a whole length of an iron bar, either
straight or in the form of a U, so as to cover its whole length with
several thicknesses of the wire.

The results of this arrangement were such as I had anticipated,
and electro-magnets of this kind, exhibited to the Albany Institute
in March, 1829, possessed magnetic power superior to that of any
before known.

The idea afterwards occurred to me that the quantity of galvanism,
supplied by a small galvanic battery, might be applied to develop a
still greater amount of magnetic power in a large bar of iron. On
experiment, I found this idea correct. A battery of two and a half
square inches of zinc, developed magnetism in a large bar sufficient to
lift fourteen pounds.

The next suggestion which occurred to me was that of using a
number of wires of the same length around the same bar, so as to
lessen the resistance which the galvanic current experienced in pass-
ing from the zinc to the copper through the coil. To bring this to
the test of experiment, a second wire, equal in length to the first,
was wound around the last mentioned magnet, and its ends soldered
to the plates of the same battery.

The magnet with this additional wire lifted twenty-eight pounds,
or, in other words, its power was doubled.

A series of experiments was afterwards made, to determine the re-
sistance to conduction of wires of different lengths and diameters, and
the proper lengths and number of wires for producing, with different
kinds of galvanic batteries, the maximum of amount of magnetic de-
velopment with a given quantity of zinc surface. For this purpose a
bar of soft iron, two inches square and twenty inches long, weighing
twenty-one pounds, and much larger than any before used, was bent
in the form of a horse-shoe. Around this were wound nine strands
of copper wire, each sixty feet long, the ends left projecting so that
one or more coils could be used at once, either connected with a bat-
tery or with each other, thus forming several coils with several battery
connexions, or one long coil with single battery connexions. The
greatest effect obtained with this magnet, using a battery of a single
pair, with a zinc plate of two-fifths of a square foot of surface, and all
the wire arranged as separate coils, was to lift a weight of six hun-
dred and fifty pounds; with a large battery the effect was increased
to seven hundred and fifty pounds. In a subsequent series of experi-
ments, not published with the preceding, the same magnet was made
to sustain one thousand pounds. When a compound battery was
employed of a number of pairs, it was found that the greatest effect
was produced when all the wires were arranged as a single long coil.
I subsequently constructed electro-magnets on the same plan, which
supported much greater weights. One of these, now in the cabinet
of Princeton, will sustain three thousand six hundred pounds with a
110° = PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

battery occupying about a cubic foot of space. It consists of thirty
strands of wire, each about forty feet in length.

The abovementioned experiments exhibit the important fact that
when a galvanic battery of intensity (that is to say, a battery con-
sisting of a number of pairs) is employed, the electro-magnet con-
nected with it must be wound with one long wire, in order to produce
the greatest effect ; and that when a battery of quantity, (that is, one
of a single pair,) 1s employed, the proper form of the magnet con-
nected with it is that in which several shorter wires are wound around
the iron. The first of these magnets, which is the one now employed
in the long or main circuit of the telegraph, may be called an intensity
magnet; and the second, which is used in the local circuit, may be
denominated the quantity.

The quantity of electricity which can be passed through a long
circuit of ordinary-sized wire is, under the most favorable circum-
stances, exceedingly small, and in order that this may develop mag-
netism in a bar of iron, it was necessary that it should be made to
revolve many times around the iron, that its effects may be multiplied ;
and this is effected by using along single coil. Hence it will be seen
that the electro-magnet of Mr. Sturgeon was not applicable to tele-
graphic purposes in a long circuit.

Previous to making the last experiments above mentioned, in order
to guide myself, I instituted a series of preliminary experiments on
the conduction of wires of different lengths and diameters, with dif-
ferent batteries. In these experiments a galvanometer, or an instru-
ment consisting of a magnetic needle freely suspended within a coil
of wire, was first employed to denote, by the deflection of its needle,
the power of the current. The result from a number of experiments,
with a battery of a single pair, was the same as that obtained by
Barlow, namely, that the power diminished rapidly with the increase
of distance With the same battery, and a larger wire, the diminution
was less. The galvanometer was next removed, and a small electro-
magnet substituted in its place. With a single battery, the same
result was again obtained—a great diminution of lifting power with
the increase of distance. After this the battery of a single pair was
removed and its place supplied by one of intensity, consisting of
twenty-five pairs. With this the important fact was observed, that
no perceptible diminution of the lifting power took place, when the
current was transmitted through an intervening wire between the
battery and the magnet of upwards of one thousand feet.

This was the first discovery of the fact that a galvanic current
could be transmitted to a great distance with so little a diminution of
force as to produce mechanical effects, and of the means by which the
transmission could be accomplished. I saw that the electric tele-
graph was now practicable; and, in publishing my experiments and
their results, I stated that the fact just mentioned was applicable to
Barlow’s project of such a telegraph. I had not the paper of Barlow
before me, and erred in attributing to him a project of a telegraph, as
he only disproved, as he thought, the practicability of one. But the
intention of the statement was to show that I had established the fact
that a mechanical effect could be produced by the galvanic current at
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 111

a great distance, operating upon a magnet or needle, and that the
telegraph was therefore possible. In arriving at these results, and
announcing their applicability to the telegraph, I had not in mind
any particular form of telegraph, but referred only to the general fact
that it was now demonstrated that a galvanic current could be trans-
mitted to great distances with sufficient power to produce mechanical
effects adequate to the desired object.

The investigations above mentioned were all devised and originated,
and the experiments planned, by myself. In conducting the latter,
however, [ was assisted by Dr. Philip Ten Eyck, of Albany. An
account of the whole was published in the 19th volume of Silliman’s
Journal, in 1831, with the exception of the account of the large
magnet afterwards constructed at Princeton in 1833, and the experi-
ment mentioned of lifting a thousand pounds with one of my first
magnets. While I was engaged in these researches, Prof. Moll, of
the University of Utrecht, was pursuing investigations somewhat
similar, and succeeded in making powerful electro-magnets, but made
no discovery as to the distinction between the two kinds of magnets,
or the transmissibility of the galvanic current to a great distance with
power to produce mechanical effects. In fact, his experiments were
but a repetition on a large scale of those of Sturgeon.

After completing the investigations abovementioned, I commenced
a series of experiments on another branch of electricity closely con-
nected with this subject. Among other things, I applied the princi-
ples above mentioned to the construction of an electro-magnetic
machine, which.has since excited much attention in reference to the
application of electro-magnetism as a motive power in the arts.

In 1832 I was calJed to the chair of natural philosophy in the
College of New Jersey, at Princeton, and in my first course of lectures
in that institution, in 1833, and in every subsequent year during my
connexion with that institution, I mentioned the project of the electro-
magnetic telegraph, and explained how the electro-magnet might be
used to produce mechanical effects at a distance adequate to making
signals of various kinds. I never myself attempted to reduce these
principles to practice, or to apply any of my discoveries to processes
in the arts. My whole attention, exclusive of my duties to the college,
was devoted to original scientific investigations, and I left to others
what I considered in a scientific view of subordinate importance the
application of my discoveries to useful purposes in the arts. Besides
this, I partook of the feeling common to men of science, which disin-
clines them to secure to themselves the advantages of their discoveries
by a patent.

In February, 1837, I went to Europe; and early in April of that
year Prot. Wheatstone, of London, in the course of a visit to him in
King’s College, London, with Prof. Bache, now of the Coast Survey,
explained to us his plans of an electro-magnetic telegraph ; and, among
other things, exhibited to us his method of bringing into action a
second galvanic circuit. This consisted in closing the second circuit
by the deflection of a needle, so placed that the two ends projecting
upwards, of the open circuit, would be united by the contact of the
ond of the needle when deflected, and on opening or breaking of the
112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

circuit so closed by opening the first circuit, and thus interrupting the
current, when the needle would resume its ordinary position under
the influence of the magnetism of the earth. I informed him that I
had devised another method of producing effects somewhat similar.
This consisted in opening the circuit of my large quantity magnet at
Princeton, when loaded with many hundred pounds weight, by at-
tracting upward a small piece of moveable wire, with a small intensity
magnet, connected with a long wire circuit. When the circuit of the
large battery was thus broken by an action from a distance, the
weights would fall, and great mechanical effect could thus be pro-
duced, such as the ringing of church bells at a distance of a hundred
miles or more, an illustration which I had previously given to my
class at Princeton. My impression is strong, that I had explained
the precise process to my class before I went to Europe, but testifying
now without the opportunity of reference to my notes, I cannot speak
positively. Iam, however, certain of having mentioned in my lectures
every year previously, at Princeton, the project of ringing bells at a
distance, by the use of the electro-magnet, and of having frequently
illustrated the principle of transmitting power to a distance to my
class, by causing in some cases a thousand pounds to fall on the floor,
by merely lifting a piece of wire from two cups of mercury closing the
circuit,

The object of Prof. Wheatstone, as I understood it, in bringing into
action a second circuit, was to provide a remedy for the diminution of
force in along circuit. My object, in the process described by me, was
to bring into operation a large quantity magnet, connected with a
quantity battery in a local circuit, by means of a small intensity
magnet, and an intensity battery at a distance.

The only other scientific facts of importance to the practical opera-
tion of the telegraph not already mentioned are the discovery by
Steinheil, iu 1837, in Germany, of the practicability of completing a
galvanic circuit, by using the earth for completing the circuit, and
the construction of the constant battery in 1836, or about that time,
by Professor Daniell, of King’s College, London. I believe that I was
the first to repeat the experiments of Steinheil and Daniell in this
country. Istretched a wire from my study to my laboratory, through
a distance in the air of several hundred yards, and used the earth
as a return conductor, with a very minute battery, the negative ele-
ment of which was a common pin, such as is used in dress, and the
positive element the point of a zinc wire immersed in a single drop of
acid, With this arrangement, a needle was deflected in my laboratory
before my class. I afterwards transmitted currents in various direc-
tions through the college grounds at Princeton. The exact date of
these experiments I am unable to give without reference to my notes.
They were previous, however, to the unsuccessful attempt of Mr. Morse
to transmit currents of electricity through wires buried in the earth
between Washington and Baltimore, and before he attempted to use
the earth as a part of the circuit. Previous to this time, and after the
abovementioned experiments, Mr. Morse visited me at Princeton, to
consult me on the arrangement of his conductors. During this visit,
we conversed freely on the subject of insulation and conduction of
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 113

wires. J urged him to put his wires on poles, and stated to him my
experiments and their results.

In the course of the years 1836 and 1837, various plans of more or
less merit, were devised, and more or less fully carried into effect, for
applying the principles already discovered to the construction of electro-
magnetic telegraphs in different parts of the world, but of these I do
not undertake to give any particular account. I would say, however,
that of these plans that for which Mr. Morse subsequently obtained a
patent was, in my judgment, the best.

3. Please state whether or not you are acquainted with the electro-
magnetic telegraph for which S. F. B. Morse obtained a patent in
1846. If you are, please state whether any, and if any, which of the
principles or plans which you have described as discovered, or an-
nounced by yourself or others are used in the construction or opera-
tion of it. State also what principles used in the telegraph are, so
far as you know, original with Professor Morse.

Answer, —I am acquainted with the principles and general mode of
operation of the telegraph and improvement referred to. The tele-
graph is based upon the facts discovered by myself and others, of
which I have already given an account.

The plan which was first described to me in the autumn of 1837 by
Mr. Morse, or by Professor Gale, who was associated with him in the
construction of the telegraph, was to employ a single entire circuit of
wire, with an intensity battery to excite the current, and an intensity
magnet to receive it and produce a mechanical action, which would
work the recording apparatus. Mr. Morse afterwards employed the
intensity battery in a long circuit, and an intensity magnet to receive
its current at a distant point, and produce the mechanical effect of
closing a secondary circuit. The secondary circuit may be either em-
ployed to transmit a second current to a distant point and there close
a third circuit, and thus continue the line, or for working a recording
apparatus in the secondary circuit, or it may be employed without
reference to the continuation of the line, as a short local circuit to work
a local magnet. In the first case, there must be in the secondary cir-
cuit an intensity battery and intensity magnet; in the last case, a quan-
tity magnet and quantity battery are required.

I heard nothing of the secondary circuit as a part of Mr. Morse’s
plan until after his return from Europe, whither he went in 1838. It
was not till long after this that Mr. Morse used the earth as a part of
the circuit in accordance with the discovery of Steinheil.

Iam not aware that Mr. Morse ever made a single original dis-
covery, in electricity, magnetism, or electro-magnetism, applicable to
the invention of the telegraph. I have always considered his merit
to consist in combining and applying the discoveries of others in the
invention of a particular instrument and process for telegraphic pur-
poses. Ihave no means of determining how far this invention is
original with himself, or how much is due to those associated with him.

4. Please state when you first became acquainted with Mr. Morse,
and what knowledge he possessed of electricity, magnetism, and
8 8
1i4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

electro-magnetism, and what information you or others commu-
nicated to him relating to the telegraph. State, also, all you know
of the attempts of himself, and others associated with him, to construct
an electro-magnetic telegraph, either from your own observation or
from statements made by himself or by others in your presence.
State particularly any conversation, if any, you may have had with
him in reference to your own discoveries applied to the telegraph.

Answer.—Shortly after my return from Europe, in the autumn of
1837, I learned that Mr. Morse was about to petition Congress for
assistance in constructing the electro-magnetic telegraph. Some of
my friends in Princeton, knowing what I had done in developing the
principles of the telegraph, urged me to make the representations to
Congress, which I expressed some thought of doing, namely: that
the principles of the electro-magnetic “telegraph belonged to the
science of the world, and that any appropriation which might be
made by Congress should be a premium for the best plan, and the
means of testing the same, which the ingenuity of the country might
offer. Shortly after this I visited New York, and there accidentally
made the personal acquaintance of Mr. Morse ;* he appeared to be an
unassuming and prepossessing gentleman, with very little knowledge
of the general principles of electricity, magnetism, or electro-magnet-
ism. He made no claims, in conversation with me to any scientific
discovery, or to anything beyond his particular machine and process
of applying known principles to telegraphic purposes. He explained
to me his plan of a telegraph with which he had recently made a
successful experiment; I thought this plan better than any with
which I had been made acquainted in Europe; I became interested
in him, and instead of interfering in his application to Congress, I
[subsequently}] gave him a certificate, in the form of a letter, stating
my confidence in the practicability of the electro-magnetic telegraph
and my belief that the form proposed by himself was the best which
had been published.

Mr. Morse subsequently visited Princeton several times to confer
with me on the principles of electricity and magnetism which might
be applicable to the telegraph. I freely gave him any information I
possessed,

I learned in 1837, or thereabouts, that Professor Gale and Dr.
Fisher were the scientific assistants of Mr. Morse in preparing the
telegraph.: Mr. Vail was also employed, but I know not in what
capacity, and I am not personally acquainted with him. With Pro-
fessor Gale I have been intimately acquainted for several years ; he
had been a pupil in chemistry of my friend Dr. Torrey, and ‘had
studied my papers on electro-magnetism, and, as he informed me,
had applied them in the arrangement of the apparatus tor the con-
struction of Morse’s telegraph.

My researches had been given to the world several years before the
attempt was made to reduce the magnetic telegraph to practice. Mr.

* This meeting took place in the chemical store of Mr. Chilton, Broadway, New York,
and the place and time are both indelibly impressed upon my mind.

{| The word subsequently was accidentally omitted in giving my testimony. The omission,
however, is of little importance.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 115

Chilton, of New York, informed me that he had referred Mr. Morse
to them previous to his experiments in the New York University. I
was therefore much surprised on the publication, in 1845, of a work
purporting to give a history of the telegraph, and of the principles on
which it was founded, by Mr. Vail, then principal assistant of Mr.
Morse, and one of the proprietors of his patent, to find all my
published researches relating to the telegraph passed over with little
more than the remark that Dr. Moll and myself had made large
electro-magnetic magnets. Presuming that this publication was
authorized by Mr. Morse and the proprietors of the telegraph, I com-
plained to some of his friends of the injustice, and after his return
irom Europe, (for he was absent at the time the book was issued,) I
received a letter, copied and signed by Mr. Vail, but written by Mr.
Morse, as the latter afterwards informed me, excusing the publication,
on the ground that he (Mr. Vail) was ignorant of what [ had done,
and asking me for an account of my researches. This letter was
addressed to me after the book had been stereotyped and widely
circulated. It has been translated into French, and, I believe,
published in Paris. To the letter I did not think fit to make
any reply. I afterwards received a letter from Mr. Morse, in his
own name, on the same subject, to which I gave a verbal reply in
January, 1847, in Washington. In this interview Mr. Morse acknow-
ledged that injustice had been done me, but said that proper repara-
tion would be made. Another issue of thesame work was made,
bearing date 1847, in which there is no change in the statement
relative to my researches.

About the beginning of 1848 Mr. Walker, of the Coast Survey, in
a report on the application of the telegraph to the determination of
differences of longitude, alluded to my researches. <A copy of this
was sent to Mr. Morse, which led to an interview between Mr. Walker,
Professor Gale, Mr. Morse, and myself. At this meeting, which took
place at my office in Washington, Mr. Morse stated that he had not
known until reading my paper in January, 1847, that I had two years
before his first conception in 1832, settled the point of practicability
of the telegraph, and shown how mechanical effects could be produced
at a distance, both in the deflection of a needle and in the action of an
electro-magnet; that he did not know, at the time of his experiments
in 1837 that there had been any doubts of the action of a current at
a distance, and that in the confidence of the persuasion that the effect
could be produced, he had devised the proper apparatus by which his
telegraph was put in operation. Professor Gale, being then referred
to, stated that Mr. Morse had forgotten the precise state of the case;
that he, (Mr. Morse,) previous to his, (Dr. Gale’s,) connexion with
him, had not succeeded in producing effects at a distance; that, when
he was first called in he found Mr. Morse attempting to make an
electro-magnet act through a circuit of a few yards of copper wire
suspended around a room in the University of New York, and that
he could not succeed in producing the desired effect even in this
that circuit; that he (Dr. Gale) asked him if he had studied Prof.
Henry’s paper on the subject, and that the answer was ‘‘no;”’ that
he then informed Mr. Morse that he would find the principles
116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

necessary to success explained in that paper; that instead of the
battery of a single element, he should employ one of a number of
pairs; and that, in place of the magnet with a short single wire, he
should use one with along coil. Dr. Gale further stated that his
apparatus was in the same building, and that having articles of: the
kind he had mentioned, he procured them, and that with these the
action was produced through a circuit of half a mile of wire.* To this
statement Mr. Morse made no reply. The interview then terminated,
and I have since had no further communication with him on the subject.

5. Please state whether or not you ever constructed any machine
for producing motion by magnetic attraction and repulsion; if yea,
what was it, and what led to the making of it.

Answer.—After developing the great magnetic power of the electro-
magnet as already described, the thought occurred to me that this
power might be applied to give motion to a machine. The simplest
arrangement which suggested itself to my mind was one already re-
ferred to, namely, causing a movable bar, supported on a horizontal
axis like a scale beam, to be attracted and repelled by two permanent
magnets. This could be readily effected by transmitting through a
coil of wire around the suspended bar a current of galvanism, first in
one direction, and then in the opposite direction, the alternations of
the current being produced by dipping the ends of wires projecting
from the coils into cups of mercury connected with batteries, one on
either side. An account of this was published in Silliman’s Journal,
for 1831, vol. xx., p. 340. It was the first successful attempt to pro-
duce a mechanical motion which might apparently be employed in
the arts as a motive power. This little machine attracted much atten-
tion at home and abroad, and various modifications of it were’ made
by myself and others. I never, however, regarded it as practically
applicable in the arts, because of the great expense of producing
power by this means, except, perhaps, in particular cases where ex-
pense of power is of little consequence.

6. Please look at the drawings of the Columbian telegraph, now
shown you, marked G. W. B. and N. B. C., and certified by G. 8S. Hil-
lard, Commissioner. Describe generally the apparatus represented
and its mode of operation, and state in what respects, if any, it differs
from the telegraphic apparatus patented by Mr. Morse.

Answer.—I have looked at the drawings, and I find, on examina-
tion, that it will be impossible for me to give a definite answer to the
question, unless I have more time than is now at my disposal, and
the means of examining and comparing the operations of the
machines.

7. Please state, if you can, how many original experiments you
have made in the course of your investigations in electricity, mag-
netism, and electro-magnetism.

Answer.—The experiments I have mentioned in this deposition
form but a small part of my original investigations. Besides many

* See Dr. ale’s letter of April 7, 1856, page 93.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, WT

that I made in Albany, which I have not mentioned, since my re-
moval to Princeton, I have made several thousands on electricity,
magnetism, and electro-magnetism, particularly the former, which
have more or less bearing on practical applications of this branch of
science, brief minutes of which fill several hundred folio pages. Many
of these have not been published in detail. They have cost me years
of labor and much expense.

The only reward I ever expected was the consciousness of advancing
. Science, the pleasure of discovering new truths, and the scientific

reputation to which these labors would entitle me.
JOSEPH HENRY.

Sworn to before me, September 7, 1849.
GEO. 8. HILLARD,

Commissioner.
GENERAL APPENDIX TO THE REPORT FOR 1857.

The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond-
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.

LECTURES ON COAL.

BY PROFESSOR JOSEPH LE CONTE.

Nature is a book in which are revealed the divine character and
mind. Science is the human interpretation of this divine book, hu-
man attempts to understand the thoughts and plans of Deity. The
book being divine, it is evident that all parts are equally sacred.
The subjects of all sciences may be said to be equally, because they
are all infinitely, noble. To the scientific mind the organization of an
insect, a polyp, or an infusorial animalcule is no less dignified a sub-
ject of human inquiry than the organization of the solar system. Yet,
as in the Sacred Neriptures, while all parts are equally sacred, because
all are divine, some are cherished with peculiar reverence, as giving
nobler conceptions of divine character, or clearer views of human duty.
So also in science there are some branches which, by a certain magni-
tude in the objects with which they deal, strike the imagination.and
kindle the enthusiasm in a peculiar degree. From a purely abstract
or intellectual point of view they may be all equal, but as human stu-
dies, as means of elevating the mind and ennobling the soul, they
differ very much among themselves.

In this, the noblest function of science, there are two departments
which stand out beyond all others, viz: astronomy and geology. We
are all accustomed to look upon astronomy as the most magnificent of
sciences, as more than all others extending the bounds of human
intellectual vision; but Iam perfectly confident that when the age
has grasped as firmly and apprehended as clearly the fundamental
idea of geology as it has already done that of astronomy, all will
agree with me in thinking that the former is not one whit behind the
latter in the overwhelming grandeur of its conceptions. Let us, then,
compare these two noble sciences. Let us attempt to vindicate the
claims of geology to stand beside astronomy in the very first rank of
sciences as twin sisters, distinguished from all others by superior
beauty and dignity. ;

There are two conditions of material existence, viz: space and time.
We cannot conceive of material existence except under these two con-
ditions. Now, the peculiar province of astronomy is space, as that of
geology is time. Other sciences may have to do with space, limited
space, a portion of space, but it belongs to astronomy alone to deal
with infinite space. So also there are other sciences which necessarily
deal with limited time, but it is the peculiar prerogative of geology to
deal with infinite time.* As astromy is limited in time to the present
epoch, or, in fact, to about two thousand years, but unlimited in space,
so also geology is limited in space to the surface of the earth, but wn-
limited in time. Ag astronomy measures her distances by billions of

* We use the term ‘‘injinile’’ with reference to time, as with reference to space, as synony-
mous with inconceivably great, illiiaitable by human conception,
120 LECTURES

miles, or millions of earth radii, so geology her epochs by millions
of years, 7. e., earth revolutions. As the astronomer takes the ra-
dius of the earth as a base line wherewith to measure the dimensions
of the solar system, so the geologist takes the present geological
epoch, and ‘‘ causes now in operation,’’ as a time measuring vod, with
which to estimate the length of the tertiary period. As the astrono-
mer, becoming more bold as he ascends, takes the diameter of the
earth’s orbit as a line wherewith to calculate the distances of the fixed
stars, or even dares to estimate the probable distance of the remotest
nebula, so the geologist, no less daring, takes the tertiary as a rod
wherewith to measure approximatively the almost inconceivable lapse
of time represented by the secondary rocks, or even dares to cast his
telescopic glance back into the dim nebulosity of the remotest paleo-
zoic period. Finally, as the astronomer, when telescopic vision fails,
still speculates, though filled with awe, concerning the infinite, un-
known abyss of space beyond, so also the geologist, when mile-stones
are no longer visible, when fossils and stratified rocks fail, still vainly
peers with wondering gaze backward, and strives to pierce the dark-
ness beyond, still believes that all he sees, or can ever hope to see, is
but a fragment of the infinite abyss of time beyond. Overwhelmed,
appalled, he shrinks back within himself, and remembers that his own
mind, so daring, so arrogant, so apparently limitless, is also but a
ragment of the infinite intelligence.

Thus, while astronomy fills the regions of the universe with objects,
geology fills the regions of infinite duration with events. As astronomy
carries us upwards by the relations of geometry, geology carries us
backwards by the relations of cause and effect. As astronomy steps
from point to point of the universe by a chain of triangles, so geology
steps trom epoch to epoch of the earth’s history by a chain of me-
chanical and organical laws. If one depend on the axioms of geome-
try, the other depends upon the axioms of causation. In a word, the
realm of astronomy is the universe of space, that of geology the uni-
verse of time. The one peoples her universe with space-worlds, the
other her’s with creations—time-worlds,

The great object of all science is to establish the universality of law;
harmony in the midst of apparent confusion; unity in the midst of
diversity; unity of force amidst diversity of phenomena, physical sci-
ence; unity of plan in the midst of diversity of expression, natural
science. Now, it is the peculiar province of astronomy to establish
this universality of law throughout all space, as it is of geology
throughout all time. Astronomy shows that the same force which
controls the falling of a stone governs the motions of the heavenly
bodies ; so also geology shows that the changes through which each
animal passes in its embryonic development are similar to those
through which the whole earth and its inhabitants have passed in
the course of its geological history; that the same mind which now
conducts the one has presided through all time over the other. If
astronomy, more than all other sciences, illustrates that sublime attri-
bute of Deity, His omnipresence or unchangeableness in space, geology,
more than all other sciences, illustrates that other sublime attribute
of Deity, His immutability or unchangeableness in time.
ON COAL. 121

There are in the history of science two eras which, more than all
others, strike the imagination and fill the mind with admiration. Or
rather, I should say, two moments, the greatest in the intellectual
history of the human race. They are those in which were born in
the mind of man the fundamental ideas of astronomy and geology—
the ideas of infinite space and infinite time, containing other worlds
and other creations. You haveall, probably, thought of the sublimity
of that moment when the idea of infinite space, peopled with worlds
like our own, was first thoroughly realized by the mind of man. You
have all, probably, shared in imagination the exstacy of Galileo as
gazing with awe through the first telescope, the phases of Venus and
the satellites of Jupiter suddenly revealed to him the existence of
other worlds besides his own. Before that pregnant moment our own
was alone in the universe. Sun, moon, and stars were but satellites
to the earth. Astronomy was but the geometry of the heavens; the
geometry of the curious lines which these ‘‘ wandering fires’’ traced
upon the crystalline concave of the skies. In an instant the great
fundamental idea of modern astronomy was born in the mind of
Galileo. In an instant man’s intellectual vision is infinitely extended,
but his own world, before so great, has shrunk into an atom in the
midst of infinite space; has become a younger sister, a comparatively
insignificant member in a great family of worlds.

We have all been accustomed to look upon this as the grandest
moment in the intellectual history of man. But there is another
moment less known, or if known, less thought. of, because less under-
stood and less appreciated, but not less grand. It is that in which
was born in the mind of man the fundamental idea of geology; in
which the idea of other time-worlds besides our own entered the mind
of the aged Buffon.

For many years, indeed centuries, it had been observed that organic
remains, particularly marine shells, might be found far inland, and
even high up the slopes of mountains. There was much speculation
among scientific men as to the origin of these shells. They were
attributed by some to the deluge, by others more truly to gradual and
permanent changes in the relative level of sea and Jand. But no one
for a moment supposed that they belonged to any period anterior to
the present epoch. Some may have supposed that they were extending
the known limits of the present epoch, that they were discovering new
continents in the ocean of time, but never dreamed that these were
the evidences of a new world in the infinite abyss of time. Buffon
himself had taken active part in these discussions. Finally, near the
end of the last century, and in the evening of his great and long life,
a large number of these remains, both marine shells and mammalian
vertebrates, larger than he had ever examined before, were placed at
his disposal and subject to his inspection. To his astonishment he
found them entirely different from species now inhabiting the earth.
In that moment, in the mind of the venerable Buffon, suddenly, like
Minerva from the head of Jove, was born the idea of infinite time
containing successive creations. In an instant man’s intellectual
vision was again infinitely extended; but his own world again
dwindled into a single day in the geological history of the earth.
122 LECTURES

The whole future of geology was seen in the vision of that moment,

Filled with awe, the old man, then over 80 years of age, published
his discovery. Ina kind of sacred phrenzy he spoke of the magnifi-_
cence of the prospect, and prophesied of the future glories of this new
science, which he was, alas, too old to pursue. Thus, to the last, his
dying hand pointed the way, and his dying voice kindled the enthu-
siasm of those whom he could no longer lead.

Picture for a moment to yourself the aged Buffon thus gazing in
rapture, silent and alone, upon this new world suddenly opened to his
intellectual vision. I cannot help comparing him to Moses of old on
the top of Pisgah. Like Moses, he had reached the extreme verge of
mortal life; lke him, he stood upon a mount, raised far above the
rest of the world by the eminence of his intellectual position; like
him, he gazed with sacred solemn joy, mingled with sadness, upon a
new world, a promised land, which he was forbidden to enter; and,
like him, also, he died there upon the mount, prophesying of the
future glories of the new land, and calling upon his followers to enter
in and take possession.

One more comparison between these two noble sciences: In com-
paring modern with ancient or even medieval civilization, nothing
is more striking or more significant than the difference in the manner
in which nature is viewed in relation to man. ‘The spirit of the older
civilization tended to exalt man in his own estimation and to degrade
nature, while that of modern civilization tends to humiliate by
insisting upon his insignificance in comparison with the greatness
of nature. In art this is seen in the graduat but constant increase
in the contemplation of nature, both in painting and poetry. An
increasing love of wilderness and mountain, of rock and crag, of cloud
and sky. In science it is still more distinctly seen in the amazing
progress of the physical and natural sciences. The mind of man has
gradually passed from the study and contemplation of itself to the
study and contemplation of nature. We believe this was a necessary,
but cannot believe that it is a final change. When, by the study of
external nature, a true and solid foundation is laid for philosophy, the
human mind will again return to the study and contemplation of
uself, as the greatest of nature’s works.

Now, it has already been seen, that among the most efficient agents
in bringing about this great and necessary change have been the
sciences of astronomy and geology. Nothing has tended so much to
humiliate the pride of man as the recognition of the astounding fact
that his habitation, his world, is but an atom among millions of simi-
lar atoms in the boundless realms of space; and that dis time, the
life of his race, is but a day in the immeasurable cycle of geological
changes. But there is this great difference between the two sciences, .
that while astronomy leaves man thus humiliated, prostrate, and
hopeless, geology lifts him up and restores him to his dignity. While
astronomy gives no evidence of the superiority of the earth to other
heavenly bodies, or of man above other possible material intelli-
gences—gives no hint of the superior dignity of our world among
other space-worlds—geology most distinctly declares the superior
dignity of our time world, and of our race, among all other time-
ON COAL. 123

worlds and their races. She teaches unmistakeably that there has
been a gradual course of preparation for the present epoch ; that there
is an unity of plan in the whole system of time-worlds; that, in a
certain sense, they are all satellites to ours; that they are all bound
together by a force ; that force the plana of the Almighty, and its
centre the present epoch. Thus man becomes the centre of the
universe of time. Thus, also, by analogy we are led to suspect that
there may be a similar unity in the system of space-worlds also,
and that ours may, and probably does, enjoy a superiority, if not in
size at least in organization, and therefore in the intelligence of its
inhabitants. Thus man’s dignity is restored, or rather, I should say,
dignity is given in place of pride. ‘‘ Pride goeth before a fall,’’ but
dignity comes after.

But it will no doubt be objected by many that the position of a
science depends not only upon the dignity of its subjects, but also, in
no small degree, upon the certainty of its conclusions, and that, in
this respect, astronomy is far superior, But even this is a mistake,
the result of misconception. Even here the superiority of astronomy
has been very much exaggerated. Astronomy has its hypotheses and
uncertainties as well as geology ; and, on the other hand, geology has
its certainties as well as astronomy; only it has happened, in this as
well as in many other cases, that the wisdom of age has given false
dignity to its errors and follies, while the wildness of youth has dis-
credited its wisdom. The certainties of astronomy have given an
appearance of truth to its wildest hypotheses, while the hypotheses of
geology have unjustly thrown some discredit upon her truest theories
and most certain facts. ‘The certainties of astronomy are the form,
size, weight, distance, and relative position of her space-worlds. Her
uncertainties are their physical geography, climate, and, more than
all, their inhabitants, animal and vegetable. The certainties of ge-
ology are the physical geography, climate, and, more than all, the
inhabitants, animal and vegetable, of her time-worlds, while her un-
certainties are their relative size and distance. It is seen, then, that
the certainties of the one are precisely the uncertainties of the other.
Which, then, are the nobler—the certainties of astronomy or those
of geology? Is it more noble to know the relative size and position
of worlds in space and time or to be acquainted with the beings
which form their crowning glory? It would carry me too far to pur-
sue this train of thought. Suffice it to say that, in either case, that
which was most important to know has been rendered most certain ;
while, also, in both cases, that which is most uncertain is also least
important to know.

I have thought this long introduction necessary, because geology is
so constantly misunderstood. She is looked upon by some with sus-
picion, as wild in her speculations and uncertain in her conclusions ;
by others with indifference, as a mass of dry and unattractive detail ;
and by still others with positive dread, as tending to infidelity. I
deemed it necessary, therefore, to say a few words in vindication of
her high rank among the inductive sciences, both in respect to the
certainty of her conclusions, and, still more, the nobleness of her con-
ceptions and the absorbing interest of her subjects.. I might have
124 LECTURES

gone still further, and vindicated her claim to be considered the chief
handmaid of religion among the sciences. But this would have led
me much too far. Thirty years later, and all I have thus far said
would have been unnecessary. One generation more and geology
will need no defender; both her dignity and her religious tendency
will be universally acknowledged. But for this purpose one more
generation must first pass away.

Perhaps it may seem to some of you as a startling paradox, but it
is nevertheless a fact, that the shortness of human life is one of the
most powerful elements of human progress. It would seem as if the
human mind grows and develops, the philosophy and opinions which
govern the conduct of life continue to be modified and moulded, until
about the age of twenty-five or thirty, when the character becomes
unchangeable, opinions become prejudices, and the whole mind, as it
were, petrified. Further progress would be impossible, but that
another generation, with minds still plastic, comes forward, takes up
and carries on the work a few steps, and becomes petrified in its turn.
There are certainly some noble exceptions to this rule—instances of
minds which with their maturity retain the plasticity of youth—but
the very rarity of the exception only proves the rule.

You doubtless recollect that the children of Israel wandered forty
years in the wilderness before they were fit to enter the promised
land. The marks of Egyptian bondage were upon their souls as well
as upon their necks. One generation must fall in the wilderness, and
anew generation, free from Hegyptian prejudices, must arise. We
are apt to look upon this as an isolated fact in history, and entirely
characteristic of this peculiar people. On the contrary, it is a fact
of deepest significance in the philosophy of human progress, and
intended for the instruction of us all. ‘I'o this day it seems to be im-
possible that any great step should be made in the intellectual progress
of our race, except by the sacrifice of at least one generation. We
are even now in the midst of such a great change, brought about by
the revelations of geology. One mere generation dropped in the
wilderness and we are fairly in the promised land. Do not misunder-
stand me, however, as quarrelling with this conservative spirit; on
the contrary, this brake upon the wheels of the car of progress seems
absolutely necessary for its steady motion.

But I find I am again digressing, and therefore hasten to return to
my subject.

I have said that the field of geology is the universe of time. It is
one of these time-worlds of which I wish to draw a true, though
necessarily an outline, picture in the next two or three lectures. I
shall not attempt more than an outline, for this would only tire you
with a multitude of details, but shall seize, if possible, the most strik-
ing features, make a comparison between this and other subsequent
time-worlds, particularly our own, and endeavor to find the law which
binds the whole into one system.

Among the many time-worlds of which geology tells us I select but
one, viz: the Coat Perrop. Its position is far back in the paleeozoic
times. Measuring time by space it is in the region of the fixed stars,
although one of the brightest in the firmament of time. If I could
ON COAL. 125

transport you in imagination to the surface of Sirius; if I could draw
a picture of its physical geography, climate, and, more than all, of its
inhabitants, who in this audience would remain unmoved? Shall
the interest be less because the separation from us is by time instead
of space ; because the place is our own earth, and the materials of the
picture beneath our very feet? '

The coal period is a world distinctly separated from those which
precede and those which follow it. As in the geographical distribu-
tion of fauna and flora upon the surface of the earth at the present
time, we find in some cases contiguous fauna and flora seem to inter-
penetrate or pass by insensible gradations into one another; the
species on the confines of each dying out in number but not in specific
character, insensibly replaced but not transmuted. So also in the dis-
tribution of fauna and flora in time we find some (as, for instance,
those of the tertiary) which pass by insensible gradations into one
another, or interlock with the preceding and succeeding, although
only by gradual replacement, not by transmutation. But as in
geographical distribution we also find many fauna and flora com-
pletely isolated by physical barriers, mountain chajns, oceans, or
deserts, from contiguous fauna and flora, so also in geological dis-
tribution we find creations are often distinctly separated from other
creations contiguous in time, by physical barriers in the form of con-
vulsions of the earth, and marked by broken, dislocated, and upturned
strata. In the history of the earth there seems to have been many
such successive creations completely destroyed by convulsions; in
other words, the time-worlds are apparently separated by blank
spaces, whose dimensions we have no means of estimating. Such a
distinct world is the coal period, with its fauns and flora distinctly
separated from the old red sandstone which precedes, and still more
so from the new red sandstone which succeeds. <A distinct world—
completely circumscribed in time—having its own poles and equator.

Now, in geology, history is recorded upon tablets of stone—stratified
rocks. Time is represented by their thickness; remarkable events by
their dislocation ; the fauna and flora by the contained fossils. Let
us, then, examine the strata which represent this period.

They are called the ‘‘carboniferous strata,’’ and the period the
‘‘carboniferous period,’’ from the remarkable fact that they contain
almost all the coal which is found in the world. The deposit of car-
bonaceous matter is not indeed confined to this period, for it has oc-
curred in every period of the earth’s history, as evidenced by the fact
that thin seams of coal are found in all the strata. Similar deposits are
still going on in peat bogs and. deltas of the present day. But the accu-
mulations of carbon in the strata of which we are speaking are so enor-
mous, in comparison to those found elsewhere, that the name carbonife-
rous, as applied to these strata and this period, becomes entirely appro-
priate. With the single exception of the oolite strata, which belong to
the secondary period, and in which coal is profitably mined in Virginia
and in England, all known coal mines delong to the carboniferous
strata. The knowledge of this simple fact would have saved the
useless expenditure of millions of dollars, both in this country and
in England. It is worse than useless to expend money and labor in
126 LECTURES

following up signs of coal, unless we are sure we are in the region of
the carboniferous strata.

The carboniferous strata are subdivided into two very distinct groups,
representing, of course, distinct subdivisions of the carboniferous period.
These are called lower and upper carboniferous, or the mountain lime-
stone, and the ‘‘coal measures.’’ The former are mostly limestone,
the latter mostly shales and sandstone; the one mostly of marine
origin, the other mostly fresh water ; the fossils of the one are mostly
marine animals, of the other terrestrial vegetation. I shall confine
myself entirely to the latter, or the true ‘‘coal measures,’ as they are
called, from the fact that ninety-nine hundredths of all the coal in the
world are found in them.

You will observe, then, that I have taken for my subject one-half
of the carboniferous period. The carboniferous is itself but one of the
tour great subdivisions of the paleezoic period, and the paleezoic period,
in its turn, only one of the four great epochs, exclusive of the present,
into which the history of our earth is divided. You see, then, that
the period of which I wish to give you a rapid sketch is less than
one-thirtieth part of the recorded history of the earth ; yet the average
thickness of these strata is about 3,000 or 4,000 feet. In Wales they
are 12,000 feet thick, and in Nova Scotia nearly 15,000. If, then,
thickness of strata represent length of time, how great must be the
lapse of time represented by the coal measures.

Such being the enormous thickness of the coal measures, it neces-
sarily follows that but a very small proportion of the mass consists of
coal. The coal strata consist of thick beds of limestone, sandstone,
ironstone, and shale, containing thin seams of coal, and this alterna-
tion sometimes many times repeated in the same locality ; the whole
forming a series like the sheets of a ream of paper, arranged in no
discoverable rational order, but indiscriminately alternating. The
seam of coal will sometimes be covered with a stratum of limestone,
sometimes of standstone, and sometimes of shale; although it rarely
happens that the sandstone or limestone comes directly in contact
with the coal; but is generally separated by a stratum, sometimes
very thin, of shale or slate. In fact a stratum of clay or fine mud
rock both underlies and overlies each seam. Below it forms the “fire
clay,’’ and above the black slate of the miners.

Nis}. I have said that the order is various in different parts of
the same alternating series; but in every part of the same
coal field the alternation is the same for the same part of

—- the series. In other words, each stratum is generally
.;222=] horizontally extended over the whole coal field in a con-
=| tinuous sheet, so that each seam is accompanied by the
same strata above and below. This is a fact of great
===] Importance, as it affords the readiest means of determining
===! the identity of individual coal seams.

Coal strata, like all other sedimentary deposits, were at
the time of formation horizontal, or nearly so. Sometimes
they are found nearly in this their original position, as in
many of the coal fields of our own country. More generally this
original horizontality has been disturbed by igneous agency, and the

ON COAL. 27

coal strata are found in the form of basins. Sometimes the strata are
so folded as to give rise to series of basins belonging to the same

Fig. 2. Vig. 3.

J

a ‘ bil - .
<\ SN / > Pr,
m\ SS Lg by pay SS AS FP?)

4A /\ = Sess SS

Saat |

original field. Whether, however, the strata retain their original
horizontality, or are thrown into basins by igneous agency, seldom or
never do we find the whole of the original mass deposited. A large
portion has been carried away by aqueous agency. From this cause
a large coal field, covering many thousands of square miles, may exist
only in the form of isolated mountains or detached basins of coal
strata, as in the accompanying figures, where all the mass represented

by the dotted lines has been carried away by denuding agencies.
Thus, for instance, nearly the whole of Illinois was originally occupied
by a vast coal field, but little disturbed by igneous agency, but by far
the larger portion of the coal strata of this immense field was carried
away by denuding agencies.

You will observe, then, the striking difference in mode of occur-
rence between metallic ores and coal. The former are associated with
rocks of every age, except, perhaps, the tertiary; the latter almost
exclusively confined to those of a particular age. The former exist
in the form of veins intersecting the strata, the latter in the form of
seams parallel with the strata. The former extend indefinitely down-
wards, the latter horizontally. The former are the result of igneous
agency, the latter of sedimentary deposit. Ignorance of this simple
but radical difference has been the cause of much pecuniary loss, and
seems not yet entirely eradicated. When, for instance, some years ago
it was rumored in the streets of Philadelphia that the bottom of the
Mauch Chunk Summit mine was reached, there was an universal panic,
and stocks in coal mines went down enormously, not knowing that the
continuation of coal seams was to be looked for horizontally rather
than vertically.

This simple rule, when taken in connexion with the one previously
enunciated, viz: that a coal seam throughout its whole extent is
attended both above and below by the same strata, would render the
identification of coal seams, and the tracing of them across valleys
from hillside to hillside, a matter of little difficulty, were it not for
128 LECTURES

dislocation of the strata, producing what are called faults, slips, or
troubles. In the accompanying figures, for instance, the strata have

Fig. 7. Fig. 8.

been displaced by the elevation of one part of the field more than
another. This is not conspicuous on the surface, because all has been
cut down to one level by aqueous agencies. The supposed configura-
tion of surface immediately after such unequal elevation is represented
by the dotted outline ; the strong line represents the present configu-
ration of surface. All between these, therefore, represents the
amount of matter carried away by denuding agencies. These faults
occur very often in coal fields, and are a source of serious annoyance
to the miner.

I have taken here the simplest case of dislocation. The difficulty
becomes very much greater when, instead of being horizontal, the
strata are highly and variously inclined. In such cases the skill and
knowledge of the geologist is often tasked to the utmost.

I have said that while metallic veins extend indefinitely downwards,
coal seams for the most part are extended horizontally, or nearly so.
Sometimes, however, coal seams may appear, like metallic veins, to
extend downwards. This is the case in highly inclined and particu-
larly in vertical strata, as in the accompanying sketch of the anthracite
coal field of Pennsylvania. In such cases, however, as well as in

Fig. 9.
ms

Pan
AON

gs) At

ily

\
&

every other, it will be observed that the seams are strictly parallel
with the strata, that the strata have been elevated to a vertical posi-
tion by igneous agency, and the included coal seams have been raised
with them, still maintaining their relative position.

The thickness of coal seams varies from a few lines to many feet ;
sometimes they exist as sheets as thin as paper, in others in masses 30
or 40 feet thick. A single seam of pure coal, however, is seldom more
than 6 or 8 feet thick. It is true that in France and in the anthracite
region of Pennsylvania they are said to occur 60 or 70 feet thick, or
even more, but upon close examination such mammoth seams wiil be
found to consist of two or more seams, separated by thin laminz of
slate; too thin, however, to form a roof, and, therefore, the several
seams are wrought together as one.

The number of seams occurring in one locality and separated by
interstratified sandstone and shale is sometimes as great as one
hundred, and their aggregate thickness one hundred and fifty feet.
Enormous as is this mass of carbonaceous matter, it is but a small
fraction of the entire mass of the coal strata. The thickest and purest
ON COAL. 129

Seams are generally near the middle of this series ; as if the conditions
necessary for the formation of coal had gradually come into existence
and as gradually disappeared; that there were two poles and an
equator belonging to this time-world—a morn, noon, and evening to
this geological day.

We have spoken thus far only of the thickness of coal strata and of
coal seams; but it is impossible to form a correct idea of the amount
of matter contained in these strata or in these seams without taking
into account also their horizontal extent. Coal is very widely dis-
tributed over the world, although some countries are more favored
than others. England, France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Sweden,
Poland, and Russia have their beds of coal. It is also found abun-
dantly in Asia, Africa, and South America; but no where is the coal
formation more extensively displayed than in the United States, and
no where are its beds of greater thickness, more convenient for work-
ing, or of more valuable quality. There are within the limits of the
United States no less than four coal fields of enormous dimensions.
One of these, the Appalachian coal field, commences on the north, in
Pennsylvania and Ohio, sweeping south through western Virginia

Fig. 10.

U.S. oe America
CoatArea

133500, Sg-Miles

eee

Brit. Amer.'Gr. Brit. 'Spain | France Belgimn.
18000 me60 =}: 3408
Sy. 7

1719 : ols

Sgm | Sg.m

1 !
1 i
1 !
! '
1 1
1 1
1 !
! 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 !
I !
| !
{ 1
1 1

and eastern Kentucky, Tennessee, extends even into Alabama. lis
area is estimated at about 60,000 square miles. A second occupies
the greater portion of Illinois and Indiana; in extent almost equal to

* Recent estimates by Marcou and by H. D. Rodgers make the coal area of the United
States near 200,000 square miles. :

95s
130 LECTURES

the Appalachian. A third covers the greater portion of Missouri, while
a fourth occupies the greater portion of Michigan. Just out of the
limits of the United States, in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, there
is still a fifth, occupying, according to Mr. Lyell, an area of 36,000
square miles. Besides these there are several others of less extent.

If we now compare the relative coal areas of the principal coal pro-
ducing countries, the superiority of our own will be still conspicuous.
The following diagrams represent these relative areas in a more in-
telligible form than could be done by mere figures.

But if, on the other hand, we compare in the same manner the
relative annual production of the same countries, we will find the
order very different.

Fig. 11.

Geeab ene.

Annual Production

31.500000 Tons

Belgium United, States France

4.960.000 4.400.000 4.341.600
Tons Tons Tons

It will be seen that the annual production of coal in Great Britain
is more than seven times that of the United States, although her coal
area is so much less. It is estimated that even at this enormous rate
of production the coal fields of Great Britain will yet last for 500
years. There is little danger, then, that ours will fail us shortly.

Now industry, as the basis of the organization of society, forms the
distinguishing feature of modern civilization. Coal is the very aliment
of industry. The material prosperity of any country may therefore
be tolerably accurately estimated by the amount of coal consumed.
ON COAL. 131

According to this method of estimation, Great Britain is superior to
all other countries in actual material civilization. But if the con-
sumption of coal is a measure of the actua civilization of a country,
the amount of coal area represents its potential civilization. How far
are we superior to all other countries in this respect! Whata glorious
destiny awaits us in the future—a destiny already predetermined in
the earliest geological history of the earth.

One more remark andl am done. It is certain that, as manu-
facturing and productive industry take root and flourish almost ex-
clusively in cool and temperate climates, so also in them do the coal
formations prevail in the greatest abundance. Our scientific maps
and investigations confirm the one, and national statistics the other,
Almost all the true coal of the world is found in the north temperate
zone. Thus the climates which are most congenial to laborious occu-
pations, the latitudes best adapted to the vigorous growth of industrial
civilization, are precisely those where, fortunately, have been placed.
the materials of labor, the aliment of industry. Fortunately did I
say? No; this has not been the result of blind chance, but of
deliberate providential design. We have here a sublime illustration
of that all-comprehensive foreknowledge which foresees and designs
the end from the beginning ; of that immutability which changes not,
but only unfolds its eternal plans; of that unity in the system of
time-worlds of which I have already spoken, our own epoch being the.
sun and centre.

THEORIES OF THE COAL.

There is no point connected with the coal which has been the
subject of so much discussion as the manner of its accumulation. At
first view, existing nature seems to offer no analogy to guide us in
our attempts to account for such enormous accumulations of carbona-
ceous matter. It is admitted, however, I believe, on all hands, that
the deposit must have taken place in water. The perfect preservation
of the carbon of the plants, and often of their external forms and
structure, which must have suffered complete oxydation and disinte-
gration if exposed to the air, the fact that the plants were most or all.
of them swamp plants, and, more than all, the alternation of coal
seams with sedimentary deposits of clay and sand, all seem to point
unmistakably to water as the preserving agent. There is still
another evidence which I think has generally been overlooked. In
the midst of the more structureless bituminous matter of the coal are -
often found imbedded wedge-shaped masses of vascular tissue called
native carbon. No one who attentively examines these wedges can
fail to perceive that they are the wooden wedges of exogens separated
by the decomposition of the softer cellular tissue of the intervening
medullary rays, while they floated as logs upon the water and finally
became imbedded in the carbonaceous mud below.

Thus far I believe all theorists agree. But from this point opinions
diverge ; some geologists holding that the coal was deposited on the
spot where the plants grew, others that the plants were drifted in the
132 LECTURES

form of rafts to great distances and deposited at the mouths of rivers;
the former, that a coal basin is the site of an ancient peat bog, the
latter, that it is the position of an ancient estuary or delta. The
former opinion is called the ‘‘ peat bog theory,’’ the latter the
“‘ estuary theory.”’
Peat bog theory.—It is well known that in many countries, par-
ticularly in moist, cool climates, and damp, low grounds, certain
plants, such as ferns, mosses, &c., as well as trees which delight in
moist places, if allowed to grow undisturbed from generation to
generation will, by their decay, accumulate enormous masses of ear-
bonaceous matter. Such a spot is called a peat bog. The theory of
this accumulation is as follows: Plants derive all their carbon from
the atmosphere. In the annual fall of leaf, and finally their own
death, they return to the earth the whole of the matter thus silently
extracted trom the air. Undisturbed vegetation, therefore, constantly
enriches the soil by adding to it what has been taken from the air.
Thus worn out lands improve by lying fallow. Thus the rich black
vegetable mould found covering the ground in forests continues to
increase from year to year. In all ordinary cases, however, there is
a limit beyond which this accumulation will not go. By decom-
position the organic matter is again returned to the atmosphere as
fast as it accumulates. But if by any means this decomposition is
<prevented the organic matter accumulates indefinitely. This is
precisely what takes place in peat bogs. The presence of water
‘In a great measure prevents the oxydation of the carbon. The
growth of plants now continually takes carbon from the atmosphere,
their death as continually deposits it upon the earth. Hach genera-
‘tion rises, phoenix-like, trom the ashes of the last, to become in its
‘turn soil for the next. Thus the ancestral accumulation continues
to increase, the funeral pile continues to rise, until pure carbonaceous
-matter may in time accumulate to the depth of thirty or forty feet.
| Such a mass of carbonaceous matter deprived of its water and com-
pressed to the density of coal, would make a seam of perhaps three
_or four feet in thickness. Now, according to the peat bog theory, it
is under such circumstances that the carbon of a coal seam has been
: accumulated.
The arguments in favor of this theory are: Ist. The purity of the
_coal. It is true that coal is often found largely mixed with earthy
matter or mud. As we have already shown, every stage of gradation
: may be traced between pure coal and pure shale. But by far the
larger portion of coal seems to be entirely free from foreign matter.
' The amount of ash is not greater than five to ten per cent. ; that is,
not greater than might arise from the earthy matter of the plants
from which the coal was derived. This purity of the coal indicates
- complete absence of sediment in the water in which the coal was
originally laid down. Now the water of peat swamps, though dis-
. colored by organic matter in solution, is always entirely free from
sediment. In fact, this seems a necessary condition of the growth of
peat plants—an incursion of water containing mud is fatal to such
plants. If, then, a coal seam is the result of carbonaceous matter
ON COAL. 133

slowly accumulated at the bottom of ancient peat swamps, the purity
of the coal is completely accounted for. But if, on the contrary, it is
formed by the accumulation of timber carried down to the mouths of
great rivers during freshets, it should always be largely mixed with
mud,

2d. The fine preservation of the tenderest and most delicate parts
of plants. We have already spoken of the profusion of finely-
preserved leaves and entire fronds of ferns in the black slate overlying
a coal seam. So perfect is this preservation that large and complex
fronds are often entirely unbroken, and even the minutest variation
of the leaves as distinct as in the living fern. This fine preservation
of tender parts seems strongly to indicate that these leaves had fallen
gently from the parent stem, and been preserved on the spot where
they fell. It seems utterly inconsistent with the violent action of
currents bearing rafts to great distances.

3d. The pesition ef the finely-preserved leaves, &c., always on the
upper surface of the coal seam, (roof of the coal mine.) Precisely
the same is observed in every peat swamp. The perfect leaves are to
be found only on top, for the plain reason that these are the last
fallen, and therefore not yet disorganized. But in the case of accu-
mulations of vegetable matter at the mouths of rivers, there seems to
be no reason why leaves should not be entangled in all parts alike.

4th. Coal, like peat, is composed of completely disorganized carbo-
naceous matter, containing fragments in which vegetable structure is
more distinct. This is not inconsistent with what I have already
said in my last lecture of the vegetable origin of even the most
structureless coal being detectable by the microscope. Plants are
composed entirely of cells. Both in peat and in coal these cells are
generally separated from one another. The vegetable structure is
completely disorganized, but the separate cells still bear unmistakable
marks of their origin; the organic structure is gone, but the organic
erigin is still visible. But if a coal seam was an imbedded raft, it
should be composed almost entirely of fragments of trunks, branches,
&c., instead of a structureless mass containing only a few such
fragments.

5th. It will be recollected that a seam of coal is overlaid by black
slate and underlaid by fire-clay. In the black slate, as already said,
are found the finest impressions of leaves and other tender parts; in
the jfire-cluy, which underlies the coal seam, are found imbedded in
the greatest abundance the roots of plants, and not unfrequently the
stumps of trees with the roots attached, precisely as they grow. And,
what is still more remarkable and significant, trunks of trees are not
unfrequently found almost entire, standing erect, with their roots still
bedded in the fire-clay, their trunks passing through the seam, and
far into the overlying strata of shale and limestone. By means of
evidence of this kind Lyell and Dawson have been able to make out
distinctly nearly 60 planes of successive vegetation in the coal field of
Nova Scotia. In many of these, viz: about 20, the trees are still in
the position in which they grew, as shown in figure 12; of the rest
the evidence consisted in the imbedded stigmaria or roots of sigil-
laria.
|
134 LECTURES

Fig. 12. In the cases in which these

<S _ S trunks and roots, in situ, are
SS S838) found, (and they are by no
— means uncommon, ) the evidence

“SSN is conclusive that the coal was
2) formed on the spot where the
| trees grew; in other words, that
the growth of the trees and the
~<-| deposit of the coal took place
S simultaneously on the same spot.
“~¥ This is clearly impossible in an
estuary, but is known to take
place in every peat swamp.

SS

thickly strewn the freshly fallen leaves. Now suppose such a peat
bog to be deeply buried beneath the surface of water and overwhelmed
with sediment of clay and sand, and again, after ages, elevated and
exposed by section to the scrutiny of the geologist, and we shall have
a complete reproduction of the phenomena of a coal seam.

The great, and almost theonly, objection which has been urged against
this theory is to be found, not in the phenomena of an individual coal
seam, but rather in the general phenomena of coal basins, in the re-
peated alternation in the same locality of coal seams with marine and
fresh water strata. We have already seen that there are in the same
coal basin sometimes as many asan hundred coal seams, one above the
other ; now, according to this theory, when the coal seam was forming
the spot must have been above the surface of the sea, but when the inter-
stratified limestones and shales were being deposited the same spot
must have been beneath the sea-level. Thus, argues the objector, we
are driven to the enormous assumption that the same spot has been
successively upheaved above and depressed beneath the sea-level one
hundred times during the carboniferous period, and, what is still
more remarkable, that every time it rose above the sea it became a
peat swamp; or if the intervening strata are fresh water instead of
marine, the difficulty seems only to be increased.

Estuary theory.—It is to meet this very difficulty, to account
for this remarkable alternation of strata, that the rival theory has
been proposed. An estuary is the wide open mouth of a river empty-
ing into a tidal sea ; it is occupied sometimes by fresh and sometimes
by salt water. The deposit at the bottom of an estuary, in suitable
positions, is, therefore, an alternation of fresh water and marine strata.
In seasons of freshets the river water, loaded with sediment and
ON COAL, 135

perhaps bearing rafts of drift timber, forces back the sea water, occu-
pies the estuary, and makes its deposit of clay and sand, containing
fragments of such drift timber; in seasons of low water the ocean
returns and makes its deposit, perhaps of limestone, and so on alter-
nately. <A coal field is supposed by these theorists to be the position
of an ancient estuary ; the limestone strata are the marine deposit,
the shale and sandstone the river deposit, and the coal seam the
imbedded drift timber brought down by the river from distant forests.

The objections to this theory are all that has been said in favor of
the peat bog theory. The pureness of the coal, the fine preservation
of even the tenderest parts of plants, the position of such well pre-
served specimens always on the upper surface of a coal seam, the
structureless character of the great mass of the coal, and, above all,
stumps and trunks of trees still erect, with their roots still fixed in
the clay stratum below—all this seems not only unaccountable but
impossible on this theory.

In comparing these two theories it will be seen that the first ex-
plains completely the phenomena of an individual coal seam, but
signally fails to explain the general phenomena of a coal basin, viz:
the alternation of coal seam with marine and fresh water strata ; while,
on the other han'l, the second explains weil this alternation, but fails
utterly to explain the phenomena of an individual coal seam. There
is, then, real and substantial evidence in favor of each, and equally
substantial objections. If this had not been the case one or the other
would have been relinquished ere this. But we find, on the contrary,
that they have both found strenuous advocates from the time geology
commenced to exist as a science until now. In every such case of
vitality in rival theories it will be found, I think, that there is a real
germ of truth in both—that both are true and both are false; both
true in some sense, and therefore reconcilable ; and both false through
narrowness of view, through exclusiveness, through mistaking a par-
tial for a general view. I can best illustrate my meaning by referring
you to the familiar but very instructive fable of the shield, which
being distinctly seen by two knights of equally good eye sight and of
undoubted veracity, was declared by one to be white and by the other
to be black. You will recollect that, after several lances were broken
and many wounds and bruises endured to decide the knotty point, it
was discovered by some one who, strange to say, was more interested
in the truth than in the dispute, that one side was white and the other
was black. The disputants were both right and both wrong, but
wrong only by exclusiveness, by mistaking a partial for a general
view. So it is with almost all vexed questions. There is truth on
both sides, but both err in excluding the other. We are seeking in
the right direction when we attempt to show the partialness of both
views. We have risen to a higher view, to a philosophic truth, when
we show that these two partial and apparently irreconcilable views
may be united into one ; these two surface views may be stereoscopi-
cally combined.

There is an old and much quoted adage, that ‘‘ truth lies in the mid-
dle’’ between extreme opinions. As generally understood nothing
136 ? LECTURES

can be more false or hurtful. Through its influence a merely timid
or temporizing policy is mistaken for wisdom, the ‘‘ fence man’’ is
mistaken for the philosopher. ‘There is another old adage, that
“¢ extremes meet ;’’ 7. e., what to the superficial observer seem to be
extremes, to the deeper thinker are often really closely allied. But
the converse of this proposition, though not erected into an adage, is
even more profoundly true, viz: that what seem to be closely allied
are very often real extremes. There is often a superficial resemblance
between the highest and the lowest, so that by the unthinking multi-
tude the one is often mistaken for the other ; pride for nobility of soul,
humility for mean-spiritedness, the serenity of self-command for the
serenity of insensibility, &c. It is only in this way that the ‘‘ fence
man’’ resembles the philosopher, for they are as wide apart as the
poles. It is in this way only that truth seems to ‘‘ he in the middle,’’
although we are further from it there than anywhere else. To refer
again to the fable of the shield: It would have been a poor solution
of the famous dispute to say that the shield was neither pure white
nor pure black, but midway between the two extremes; that it was,
in fact, some shade of gray or dusky, or, perhaps, pepper and salt.
No; I repeat, truth lies not ‘‘in the middle,’’ but the reconciliation of
extremes in the harmonious combination of apparent antagonisms.

Now, it seems to me that the phenomena of a coal seam already
enumerated prove most conclusively that the coal was formed in situ,
as in the peat swamps of the present day. At the same time the fre-
quent alternation of seams with marine and fresh water strata prove
also most conclusively that the deposit took place at the mouths of
rivers. Here are two incontestible facts. We must put them to-
gether ; we must combine them if we would make a true and sufficient
theory. I believe the more this subject is reflected on the more we
shall be convinced that coal was deposited in peat swamps at the mouths
of large rivers, and therefore subject to overflows by the river and
occasional inundations by the sea. Weare to look for analogies in
existing nature, not among the bogs of Ireland, but among the river
swamps of the Mississippi.

It is well known that such peat swamps, some of them of enormous
extent, exist now on the margins and in the delta of the Mississippi
and probably many other large rivers, and that pure peat unmixed
with mud is constantly forming in these swamps, although they are
annually flooded by the river. This seems at first incredible, when
we recollect that the river water is loaded with sediment, and that
sediment prevents the growth of peat plants, or at least would entirely
destroy the purity of the peat.. But this apparent anomaly has been
entirely explained by Mr. Lyell. According to this high authority,
although the peat swamps of the Mississippi are annually flooded by
river water they are entirely untouched by river mud. These favored
spots are surrounded, particularly on the side next the river, by dense
vegetation, which, acting asa sieve, completely strains the water of
its mud before it reaches the peat swamp. The water of these swamps
is therefore pure, and pure peat has been quietly depositing there for
ages.
ON COAL. 187

Let us now suppose that
there existed during the
carboniferous period a large
river, perhaps less than the
Mississippi, but with enor-
mous swamps and delta,
overgrown with rank vege-
tation far surpassing in
luxuriance anything we
know at the present day.
In the midst of such swamps
there would evidently occur
spots of great extent, the
waters of which, for the
reasons already mentioned, would never be contaminated with sedi-
ment, as at (a) fig. 13. Here for untold ages pure carbonaceous matter
would accumulate undisturbed. In the course of time the surround-
ing portions of the swamps (b) where the mud is detained would rise
by deposit of sediment, while the peat swamp (a) would remain as a
sunken country, such as exist now in the swamps of the Mississippi.
Finally, at uncertain intervals, a more than usually large freshet, or
perhaps some change in the level of the land, would deluge the swamp
with mud and bury the peat. Gradually the vegetation would re-
turn, and the former condition of things be restored, to pass again
through the same changes. We have but one other supposition to
make, viz: that the whole river swamp and delta were gradually sub-
siding during the whole carboniferous period. This is by no means
a violent supposition, but one which we have a right in this case to
make for two good reasons: Ist. We have the best evidence that
many of the large deltas of the present day are thus subsiding. This
is proved in the case of the Mississippi delta by cypress stumps 7 situ
below the level of the sea. 2d. The coal strata themselves give indu-
bitable evidence of gradual subsidence during the period of their de-
posit. The character of these strata and their fossils shows that they
were deposited in shallow water, but their enormous thickness (nearly
three miles in Nova Scotia) renders this clearly impossible, unless we
suppose such subsidence; for, if the bottom was stationary, it must
have been three miles below the surface of the water when the lowest
stratum was deposited. Now, if such subsidence went on constantly,
but slowly, so that, under ordinary circumstances, the delta could be
maintained by deposit from the river, but at uncertain intervals, more
rapidly than the river could build up, so that the sea would again
usurp possession and make its deposit of limestone, and again more
slowly, so that the area might again be reclaimed by the river, and
become a peat swamp, and so on alternately, we should easily, with-
— violent hypothesis, account for all the phenomena of a coal

asin,

It will be observed that by this hypothesis the area of a coal basin
has, indeed, been successively above and below the sea-surface, but
not by successive upheaval and depression, as it has been supposed
necessary on the peat bog theory, but by the contention, with various

138 LECTURES

success, of opposing forces, aqueous and igneous, the river constantly
building up, and igneous forces beneath as constantly striving to de-
press ; sometimes one force predominating, sometimes the other. Of
such contention we have many instances in existing nature. It is
evidently going on in the delta of the Mississippi at the present time.

It may not be possible, in the present condition of science, to picture
to ourselves all the circumstances connected with this process. Per-
haps I have already gone too far in this attempt; but the general
facts upon which the theory rest are incontestible. Coal has almost
certainly accumulated im situ in extensive peat swamps at the mouths
of large rivers, upon ground which was slowly subsiding during the
whole period. Under these circumstances it seems not difficult to
account for all the phenomena of a coal basin. All we have to do in
future is by study of the peat swamp of the Mississippi and the phe-
nomena of delta deposit to discover the details of the process, to fill
up the outline of the picture.

There is a fact noticed by Mr. Lyell, which is strongly confirmatory
of this theory. In the sandstone of the coal measures it 1s common
to find trunks of trees, but only trunks—no small branches, leaves, or
tender parts. Moreover these trunks are observed to be mostly pines,
highland trees, while the trunks in the coal seam proper are sigilla-
ria, lepidodendron, calamites—swamp trees. Now, when we recollect
that coarse sandstone is the deposit of rapid current, does it not seem
evident that the sandstone was deposited by the freshet which over-
whelmed the peat swamp, and that the pine trunks are the remains
of drift timber brought from the highlands. Here, then, we have
ancient drift timber, but how different from a coal seam !

Let us now attempt to estimate approximatively the time necessary
to bring about these stupendous results. I believe we should never
neglect an opportunity of this kind, because the popular mind has not
yet grasped the idea of “illimitable time required by geology to the
same extent as it has the idea of illimitable space required by
astronomy; and, as I believe, this is one of the greatest difficulties
with which geology has to contend.

According to Boussingault luxuriant vegetation at the present day
takes from the atmosphere about a half ton of carbon per acre annu-
ally, or 50 tons per acre in acentury. Fifty tons of carbon of the
specific gravity of coal, about 1.50, spread evenly over the surface of
an acre, would make a layer of less than 4 of an inch. Humboldt
makes the estimate a little higher, viz: an inch. Weare willing
to take the higher estimate. It appears, then, that if all the carbon
taken from the air was preserved so the form of coal, our most luxu-

riant vegetation would make but a 3 inch of coal in acentury. But
in the coal measures the aggregate thickness of the coal seams in the
same basin is sometimes 150 feet or more. In 150 feet there are
1,800 inches, or 3,600 half inches. At the present rate of vegetation,
then, it would take 3,600 centuries, or 360,000 years, to accumulate
this amount. But it will be objected that the vegetation of the coal
period was probably mach more luxuriant than the present, and the
tendency of this difference would be to shorten the time. True; but
it will be recollected that this estimate was made upon the ground
ON COAL. 139

that all the carbon was preserved. This is in the highest degree im-
probable, not to say impossible. Probably much more than half was
returned to atmosphere in the form of carbonic acid and carburetted
hydrogen. Again, we have taken no account of the enormous periods
of time during which there was no carbon deposited on the spot in
question, and represented by the intervening strata of limestone,
sandstone, and shale. The estimate we have given above, therefore,
probably falls very far short of the truth. Let us try another.
According to Messrs. Lyell and Dawson the coal strata of Nova
Scotia are about three miles in thickness at the South Joggins. At
another point, nearly 100 miles distant, (Albion mines,) they found
the thickness nearly the same. There is little danger, therefore, of
erring on the side of excess, if we take the average thickness of the
strata over the whole basin at one and a half miles. Now, the area
of this coal field, according to Mr. Lyell, is about 3,600 square miles.
This would give, as the solid contents of these strata, 54,000 cubic
miles. But we have already seen that this enormous amount of mat-
ter was almost certainly accumulated at the mouth of a great river.
Let us see how long it would take one of our great rivers to do the
work. I shall select for this purpose the Mississippi and the Ganges,
because they are both very large rivers, carrying vast amounts of
sediment, and because accurate observations have been made as to the
amount of sediment brought down by them. These observations have
been made upon the Mississippi by Drs. Forshay and Reddell, of New
Orleans, and by Captain Strachey, British engineer, upon the Ganges.
According to these observations it would take the Mississippi 2,000,000
years, and the Ganges* 375,000 years to perform the work. And yet
the period we are now discussing is probably not one-thirtieth, cer-
tainly but a small portion of the entire geological history of the earth.
It will no doubt be objected to this estimate that it is founded upon
a particular theory, and this theory may be incorrect, and the estimate
thus falls to the ground. In answer to this objection it is only neces-
sary to state that we are acquainted with no other circumstances under
which strata accumulate so rapidly as at the mouths of rivers. Any
other conceivable theory, therefore, would only increase the time.
Again, it will probably be objected that the agencies of nature may
have been and probably were more active in earlier periods of the his-
tory of the earth than now. Such a notion, although almost universal
among intelligent people and very prevalent even among geologists,
is, as it seems to me, utterly without foundation in reason. In refer-
ence to this point geologists may be divided into two classes. The
first and most numerous class hold that the agencies of nature have
gradually decreased in activity from the earliest times until now. The
other, to which Mr. Lyell and his followers belong, believes that these
agencies have acted much as they do now through all time; that there
has been no progressive change of any kind, neither in the earth nor
its inhabitants. Now, it seems to me that it can be proved, or at

* This amazing difference in favor of a smaller river is due to the fact that the Ganges,
being a tropical river, the rains all fall during six months, and are therefore very heavy. ‘The
washing of the soil and resulting sediment are necessarily in proportion. ‘The mountainous
country in which the Ganges takes its rise contributes also to the same result.

\
140 LECTURES

least rendered extremely probable, that neither of these theorists is
in the right; that, in fact, while the igneous agencies have been de-
creasing in activity, the aqueous have been constantly increasing in
the same proportion. As I believe I differ from all other geologists in
my views on this point, I deem it important to go a little more fully
into this subject.

It is generally admitted by geologists, and indeed there is good and
substantial evidence of the fact, that the earth has been gradually cool-
ing throughout all geological history from an original very high tem-
perature. We have also, as I believe most geologists will admit, good
and substantial evidence that the land has constantly increased both
in extent and in elevation with the course of time, while the ocean has
as constantly decreased in extent in the same proportion. In other
words, these two elements, land and water, have been, as it were,
sradually differentiated. Admit these two points and all the rest
logically follow.

The activity of igneous agencies depends upon the internal temper-
ature of the earth. As this has constantly decreased the igneous
agencies have also decreased in energy in the same proportion. The
aqueous agencies, on the other hand, are the result of currents of air
and water upon the surface of the earth; and the rapidity of these
currents depends, not upon the mean surface temperature, but upon
the difference of temperature in different parts of the surface; 7. e.,
between pole and equator or between land and water. It only remains
to prove, then, that this difference of temperature has been constantly
increasing with the course of time.

Land, as is well known, is both a better absonbon and a better radi-
ator of heat than water ; ; 7. e., will both heat faster and cool faster
under given circumstances than water. <A globe of land would be both
hotter at the equator and colder at the poles than a globe covered with
water and exposed to the same influences. Although the mean tem-
perature would be nearly the same in the two cases. the difference of
temperature would be much greater in the former than in the latter.
It follows, therefore, that as the extent of land increased and that of
the ocean decreased with the course of time the difference of tempera-
ture between poleand equator must have increased in thesame proportion.
The gradual decrease of the mean temperature would evidently contri-
bute to the same result; for it is evident that with a higher mean temper-
ature a larger portion of water would exist in the form of vapor. This
excessive vapor would rise into the atmosphere and become condensed
into universal clouds, mist or fogs, but seldom, and to a very limited ex-
tent, in the earlier periods of the earth’s history, into rain, because, as
yet, there were neither extensive high land nor cool currents sufficient
for extensive precipitation. Thus would resulta thick, murky atmo-
sphere, enveloping the whole earth. The necessary effect of this would
be still further to prevent absorption of heat atthe equator and radiation
at the poles, and thus to produce still greater uniformity of climate.
In the earliest geological periods, therefore, when the surface temper-
ature, from internal causes, was very great, and the ocean almost uni-
versal, the difference of temperature between pole and equator was
reduced to a minimum. In such a condition of things it is evident
ON COAL. 141

that the exchange between pole and equator currents of the aqueous
and aerial ocean must have been not only very sluggish but perfectly
regular northeast and southwest currents in the northern hemi-
sphere, and northwest and southeast currents in the southern. In
proportion as the earth cooled the diversity of temperature between
pole and equator became greater and the exchange more rapid. In
the meantime the gradual increase in the extent and elevation of con-
tinents would introduce still greater diversity. The regular oceanic
currents, by impinging upon the continents, are reflected in various
directions, increasing still further the diversity of climate. Currents
of the air, too, are no longer only trade winds, but also monsoons, land
and sea breezes, &c. These various currents, mingling and contend-
ing, produce the infinitely varying winds of the present epoch. But
the most important current we have not yet spoken of. Land and sea
may be considered the two poles of a circulating apparatus; water
rises in the form of vapor at one pole, passes over through the atmo-
sphere, and is condensed on the other in the form of rain, and so back
by the rivers to the ocean. The more rapid the condensation the more
rapid the evaporation and the more rapid the circulation. Within
certain limits, (7. e., until the land is sufficient to condense all the water
evaporated from the ocean,) the amount of evaporation and condensa-
tion is in proportion to the extent and elevation of the continents.
It is evident, then, that in the earlier periods of the earth’s history,
when the ocean was almost universal, although the air was saturated
with moisture, there was comparatively little rain; and that just in
proportion as the continents increased in extent and elevation, evapor-
ation, and condensation would increase in the same proportion. It is
impossible to resist the conclusion, then, that from the earliest periods
until now there has been a constant increase in activity and variety of
currents of ocean and atmosphere ; of wind and rain; of cloud and
sunshine ; of fountains and rivers; in fact of all that constitutes the
life, variety, and beauty of our beloved earth.

Thus it appears that at first igneous predominated over aqueous agen-
cies. It was this very predominance which caused uncompensated, pro-
gressive change—development of the earth as a whole; for perfect
balance is incompatible with developement. But gradually aqueous
agencies increased in energy; the antagonistic forces approached a
balance.as the earth approached maturity, until at present the balance
may possibly be complete.

In all I have said I have had in view, of course, only the ordinary
regular operation of aqueous agencies, or what Mr. Lyell calls ‘‘ causes
now in operation.’’ I say of cowrse, because the extraordinary, irregu-
lar operation of these agencies, such as are called ‘‘debacles,’’ &c., are
too uncertain and hypothetical, not to say improbable, to form the
basis of any reasoning whatever. I repeat, then, that during the coal
period the ordinary operation of aqueous or degrading agencies must
have been more slow than at present. The accumulation of a certain
amount of material in a river delta, other things being equal, would
require a longer time than now.
142 LECTURES

CLIMATE OF THE COAL PERIOD.

It is probable, from what evidence we have on this subject, that
the climate of the coal period was characterized by greater warmth,
greater humidity, and greater uniformity than now obtains, and that
the air was more highly charged with carbonic acid. Of the greater
warmth of the climate we have evidence in the astonishing luxuriance
and universal tropical character of the vegetation of the period. One
of the most marked peculiarities of the flora of coal everywhere is the
great relative abundance of ferns and fern allies. In the present flora
of Great Britain the ratio of ferns to flowering plants is about | to 35,
while in the coal flora of the same country nearly one-half of all the
known plants are ferns. In the American coal flora the proportion
of ferns is said to be still greater. That this abundance of ferns indi-
cates a tropical climate is shown by the fact that in the existing flora,
out of about 1,500 known species of ferns, 1,200 are confined to the
tropics, and as we pass from the equator towards the poles the propor-
tion of ferns, steadily diminishes. ‘The same may be said with refer-
ence to the club-mosses. It is worthy of remark, too, that although |
conifers are abundant now all over the earth’s surface, still those most
nearly allied to the conifers of the coal—such, for instance, as the
araucaria and salisburia of the present day—are found only in tropical
regions. Now, during the coal period, this tropical vegetation extended
as far as 75° north latitude. Tree ferns and gigantic club-mosses
covered the spot now occupied by the Mellville island. The evidence
of remarkable humidity is no less satisfactory, for it is only in warm,
moist climates that ferns and club-mosses grow in the greatest abun-
dance and luxuriance. On some islands in the tropics and in the
south seas the abundance of ferns even approaches that of the coal
flora. In fact, as a condition of the growth of these plants, moisture
seems even more necessary than heat.

It has been objected to the greater heat of the climate, that coal was
evidently formed by accumulation of carbonaceous matter in situ as
now in peat bogs, and that peat bogs are found only in cool climates.
The answer to this objection is not difficult. It is not the heat
immediately, but the resulting capacity for moisture, or, in common
language, dryness of the air of the tropics, which under ordinary cir-
cumstances prevents the preservation of carbon. The air is not so
constantly at or near the point of saturation. Fogs, and mists, and
clouds are not so constant as in cooler climates. But we have sup-
posed greater humidity as well as heat during the coal period. Under
these circumstances, there is no reason why peat should not accumu-
late. We see proof of this in the peat swamps at the mouth of the
Mississippi. Here we find peat accumulating in great abundance in
a climate which is yet very warm; and we have already seen that it
is in such peat swamps, rather than in the bogs of cooler climates,
that we are to look for analogies with the peaty ‘accumulations of the
coal period. The enormous extent of these peat swamps becomes in its
turn an additional proof of the great humidity of the climate.

The uniformity of climate—7. e. the comparatively equable distri-
ON COAL. 143

bution of heat and moisture on the surface of the earth during the
coal period—is evidenced by the remarkable uniformity of the flora.
The general character of the coal flora was very much the same in every
portion of the earth’s surface, and in many cases even the same species
are found in the most distant countries. Thus many identical species
have been found in Europe, United States, New Holland and Mell-
ville island, countries the existing flora of which differ entirely. Now,
although I cannot accede to the doctrine that diversity of climate is
the physical cause of diversity of fauna and flora, yet, whether we con-
sider the physical or the final cause, the result would evidently be the
same, viz: the perfect harmony between the climate and the fauna
and flora, the perfect adaptation of the one to the other.

That the atmosphere was highly charged with carbonic acid is ren-
dered probable by the astonishing luxuriance of the vegetation of the
period. Someexperiments recently made by Mr. Gladstone seem to show
that up to a certain limit the growth of ferns is rendered more rapid by
the addition of carbonic acid to the atmosphere in which they grow.
This probably becomes a certainty, when we reflect upon the enormous
amount of carbon contained in the coal deposits, all of which must
have been extracted from the atmosphere. It has been estimated that
‘‘all the forests of the United States gathered into one heap would
fail to furnish materials of a single coal seam equal to that of Pitts-
burg.’? Again, that ‘‘ that there is laid up in the earth, in the form
of coal, six times as much carbon as now exists in the atmosphere. If
it was all returned to the air, there would be seven times as much
carbonic acid in the atmosphere as at present.”’

Cause of the climate of the coal.—Much speculative ingenuity has
been exhausted to little effect in attempts to account for the remark-
able climate of this period. We find here the same looseness of rea-
soning unfortunately so common among geologists when dealing with
physical subjects. The subject of most of this speculation has been
the cause of the supposed greater heat of the climate. There are two
principal methods of accounting for it. The first and most obvious
mode is by means of the commonly received hypothesis that the earth
has cooled down to its present temperature from an original state of
incandescence. But although there is much independent evidence of
this original condition—and we think it extremely probable, therefore,
that the heat of the coal period was due, at least in part, to this cause—
yet, as Hopkins has shown, (Geol. Jour., 1853,) there are strong ob-
jections to this as the only cause. We have already said that the
surface temperature of the earth is due partly to internal and partly to
external causes. At present the surface temperature from internal
causes has become almost nothing, 7. e. only one-twentieth of a degree
Fahrenheit. The increase of temperature below the surface is about
1° to sixty feet. Now, if we supposed the surface temperature from
this cause to be increased even to 1°, the increase for every sixty feet
of depth would be 20°. An increase of 10° surface temperature would
make 200° increase of temperature for every sixty feet. The springs,
except the most superficial, would all be boiling. Now, it will be
recollected that the winter temperature of Mellville, where coal is
found abundantly, is —20° Fahrenheit. It would, therefore, take near
144 LECTURES

100° additional of surface temperature to raise this to tropical heat.
This would necessitate a temperature of 2,000° at the depth of sixty
feet, a condition of things, it would seem, utterly incompatible with
the existence of luxuriant vegetation on the surface.

The second mode of accounting for it is by means of distribution of
land and water upon the earth’s surface. Land, as compared with
water, is both a better absorber and better radiator of heat, 7. e., will
both heat faster under the influence of a source of heat, as the sun,
and cool faster when that source is withdrawn. This is familiarly
illustrated by land and sea breezes. Again: the earth at the equator
receives more heat from the sun than it radiates, while at the poles,
on the contrary, it radiates more than it receives from the sun, the
overplus in both cases being balanced by the currents of ocean and
atmosphere. If these currents could be prevented, the equator, for a
time, would get progressively warmer, and the poles progressively
colder. We may evidently, then, look upon the earth as a body heat-
ing at the equator and cooling at the poles. Now, when we recollect
the great absorbing and radiating power of land, as compared with
water, it is easy to see that the mean temperature of the earth’s surface
may be materially affected by the distribution of these elements with
reference to the two points in question. For instance, if the water be
all collected in a belt about the equator, and the poles be occupied
entirely by land, we would have the conditions most unfavorable for
heating at the equator and most favorable for cooling at the poles.
The result would be a considerable lowering of the mean temperature.
If, on the contrary, the waters be gathered into polar oceans, leaving
an equatorial belt of land, the conditions would be most favorable for
heating at the equator and most unfavorable for cooling at the poles,
and the mean temperature would consequently rise. It is estimated
that these two extreme conditions would bring down the mean tem-
perature to 32°, or raise it to tropical heat. It is not to be supposed
that such extreme conditions ever existed ; but any approximation to
such conditions—for instance, a decided predominance of land towards
the equator or poles—would produce the same effects to a corresponding
degree. Now, it is possible that the greater heat of the coal period
may be due to some such distribution of land and water.

The fatal objection to this explanation is that we find no coal in
tropical regions. As every coal field presupposes a large river, and
therefore a considerable extent of land, the distribution of coal may
be looked upon as in a general way indicative of the distribution of
land during the period. It would seem from this that the larger
bodies of land existed in temperate and arctic rather than in tropical
regions.

But if itis impossible by distribution of land and water to account
for the greater mean temperature, it is at least easy in this way to
account for the greater humidity and uniformity of climate which we
have found equally to characterize this period. I have already alluded
to the fact that the paleeozoic seas were probably very wide and the
land correspondingly small in extent and low, and that such a condi-
tion of things, on account of the very limited condensation and pre-
cipitation of vapor, would produce a very humid climate. Now, water
ON COAL. 145

being both a bad absorber and bad radiator of heat, both heating very
slowly and cooling very slowly, itis evident that a great predominance
of that element would produce, also, a very uniform climate. The
difference of temperature between pole and equator, and between winter
and summer, would be less than at present.

Some geologists think, with Mr. Lyell, that this uniformity and
humidity of climate is sufficient to account for the coal vegetation
without the necessity of a higher mean temperature than now exists.
If the present mean temperature was distributed more equably both
over the earth surface and over the year, the effect would be to pro-
duce cooler equator, it is true, but also much warmer high latitudes,
and particularly the winters of high latitudes would be much less
severe. The evidence is, however, it seems to me, in favor of some
elevation of the mean temperature also. It is difficult to conceive how
any uniformity of distribution of the present mean temperature, such
as would be produced by the predominance of water, could raise the
winter temperature of Mellville island to the point necessary for the
luxuriant growth of tree ferns. Some increase of temperature from
internal cause seems to be necessary. I suppose, therefore, that if the
temperature of the earth from internal causes was slightly elevated,
say 10°, so that the mean temperature from 60° should become 70°,
and then this mean temperature distributed over the earth surface as
uniformly as possible, by means of a wide extent of ocean, we should
have all the conditions necessary to produce the phenomena of coal
vegetation. It will be recollected, too, that we have much indepen-
dent evidence of the cooling of the earth from an original very high
temperature.

With reference to the highly carbonated condition of the atmo-'
sphere, we may suppose this to be the result of the greater activity
of carbonic acid producing causes, or else we may refer it to the
original constitution of the air—the natural process by which car-
bonic acid is given to the air, decomposition, combustion, respiration
of animals, and volcanoes, carbonated springs, &c. It will be admitted
by all that the first three may be neglected, since they return to the
air only what had been previously taken from it. The carbonic acid
supplied to the air by volcanoes and carbonated springs, according to
Bischoff, is so inconsiderable that, unless we suppose these sources
much more active than now, it would take millions of years to affect
materially the constitution of the air. But even this refuge is taken
away, when we recollect that volcanoes and springs derive their car-
bonic acid from carbonates, and chiefly from carbonate of lime, or com-
mon limestone. But limestones, according to the testimony of all who
have carefully studied them, and particularly according to the recent
microscopic observations of Sorby, are entirely of animal origin, 7. e.
entirely made up of broken fragments of shells, corals, crinoids, some-
times recognizable under the microscope, sometimes reduced to impal-
pable powder. This carbonate of lime is evidently derived from
sea-water. Whence, then, does sea-water derive its carbonate of lime?
The lime is derived, beyond doubt, from igneous rocks, the carbonic
acid probably from the atmosphere, through the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, since lime exists in igneous rocks not as a carbonate but as

10s
146 LECTURES

a silicate. It would seem to follow, then, that springs and volcanoes,
also, only return to the atmosphere what had been previously taken
from it. The only difference between these sources and the three first
is, that while decomposition, combustion, and respiration return to
the air what had been taken from it but a litile while before, springs
and volcanoes return to the air what had been taken from it during
some previous geological epoch. Thus the atmosphere becomes the
great original source of all the carbonic acid in the world.

But whatever be the cause of the excess of carbonic acid in the at-
mosphere during the coal period, we cannot fail to see an evident and
beneficent design in its removal. Carbonic acid, as is well known, is
as poisonous to animals as it is nourishing to plants. Previous to the
coal period there lived none but aquatic animals of low order. These,
on account of low vitality, sluggish circulation, and little necessity
for rapid and constant oxygenation of the blood, have great endurance
of carbonic acid. But now the earth was prepared to receive air-
breathing animals, the atmosphere must be purified for the purpose.
This was accomplished by the astonishing vegetation of the coal period.
But observe, and never cease to admire and wonder, that the self-same
providential act which purified the atmosphere and rendered the earth
a fit habitation for reptiles and birds, had reference also to the coming
of man countless ages after, and laid up materials for his use. In the
carbon thus silently extracted from the atmosphere was buried a me-
chanical energy which, after a sleep of millions of years, was to rise
again as the great physical regenerator of the human race.

ORIGIN OF COAL.

It is now universally admitted among geologists that coal is entirely
of vegetable origin. There was a time, however, and that not many
years ago, when the vegetable or mineral origin of coal was a ques-
tion warmly contested by the best geologists; but its vegetable char-
acter is now so firmly established and so universally admitted that
the history of the controversy has lost its interest. I will not, there-
fore, tire you with its details, but proceed to state the evidence upon
which the universal belief is founded.

First, then, the enormous profusion of fossil plants, in the form of
impressions of leaves, trunks and branches of trees, fruits, &c., found
in immediate connexion with a coal seam, affords strong presumption
in its favor. In the second place, this presumption is strengthened,
and becomes, in fact, almost certainty in the case of trunks of trees
retaining their external conformation, and under the microscope their
internal structure even to the minutest sculpturing upon their cell
walls, and yet turned to perfect coal. It might possibly be objected
that it may be a substitution of one substance for another, similar to
what takes place in petrification, where we find, also, the external
conformation and internal structure perfectly preserved, but the
organic matter all gone, that the ancient trunk having been buried
in bituminous matter and thoroughly impregnated therewith, as
particle by particle the woody matter was removed by decomposition
the bituminous matter took its place, and thus perfectly imitated its
ON COAL. 147

structure. But this objection is forever set aside, when, in the third
place, we subject even the most structureless coal to microscopic
scrutiny. The distinguished American microscopist, Professor Bailey,
of West Point, has been able to detect the unmistakable evidences of
vegetable structure even in the hardest anthracite. In fact it may be
affirmed that there is no coal which, under careful examination, will
not reveal a vegetable structure.

Again: All the stages of gradation between perfect wood and per-
fect coal may be traced with the greatest certainty. We find the first
stage of this process in the blackened semi-bituminized logs of our
peat bogs and deltasof the present epoch. The next stage we find in
the lignites or brown coal of the tertiary period ; the next the highly
bituminous coal of the oolite ; then the coals of the true carboniferous ;
and lastly, the anthracites of the same and lower strata. Thus we
may trace the whole embryology of coal from its immature to its most
perfect condition—may trace and identify all the intermediate links
of the chain of conditions of which wood and coal form the extreme
limits. But not only in external form and appearance, but also in
chemical composition we can trace these several stages. Wood con-
sists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen; coal consists of the same ele-
ments but in different proportions. In coal the proportion of carbon
is greater and of oxygen and hydrogen less than in wood. Now, if
we compare the chemical composition of wood, peat, lignite, bitumin-
ous coal and anthracite, we find a progressive decrease in the propor-
tion of oxygen and hydrogen, until, in anthracite, we find the carbon
almost pure, and absolutely pure in graphite, if we acknowledge this
as of similar origin. This chemical evidence is, it seems to me, abso-
lutely demonstrative.

Lastly, direct experiment proves that peat, which we know to be
of vegetable origin, may, by strong pressure, be made to assume the
hardness, the density, the general appearance, and all the useful pro-
perties of coal.

Assuming, then, the vegetable origin of coal as a basis of argu-
ment, we will proceed to speak of, and to account for, the principal
varteties of coal,

All coal consists of two parts, the one combustible the other in-
combustible. It is easy to separate these from one another. If a
piece of coal is thrown into the fire the combustible portion passes
away in the form of gases, the incombustible remains behind in the
form of ash. Now, the relative proportion of these two vary infi-
nitely in different coals. We have every stage of gradation between
pure shale and pure coal, between pure incombustible and almost as
pure combustible.- In the purest coal the amount of ash is only | to
2 per cent.; others, more impure, contain 5, 10, 20, 50 per cent. of
ash. At this point coal loses the property of ready combustion, and
with it loses also the name of coal in popular language. But the
geologist recognizes no remarkable change at this particular point—
no scientific reason why the name should change from coal to shale,
as there is no corresponding change of nature. From this point,
under the name of shaly coal, black slate, &c., the amount of ash
may continue to increase and the amount of combustible matter to
148 LECTURES

decrease, until, in pure shale or slate, the whole becomes incom-
bustible.

Now, wood consists also of combustible matter and ash, but the
amount of ash in wood is much less than in coal—the wood of elm
contains about 2 per cent.; willow, 4 half per cent.; beech, 4 per cent.;
oak and pine about + per cent. The leaves and bark of trees, how-
ever, contain much more than this. The fully matured leaves of the
beech, willow, and elm contain, severally, 6.6, 8, and 11 per cent. of
ash. It is probable, then, that 2 to 3 per cent. is a fair average of
the per centage of ash in dry vegetable matter. But even if the coal
is perfectly pure, that is, formed of vegetable matter without foreign
admixture, we should find a higher proportion of ash than in the
wood from which it was formed, for, as we have already seen, wood
loses hydrogen and oxygen in the process of change into coal. The
weight therefore diminishes, but the absolute amount of ash remains
the same, and consequently the relative amount increases. We may
safely say, then, that if coal contains not more than 5 per cent. of ash
it may be considered quite pure; but if it contains more than 10 per
cent. it is probably impure, 7. e., mixed with foreign matter. This
foreign matter being evidently the mud or clay upon which the carbo-
naceous matter was originally laid down or by which it was after-
wards covered. Hence we find the purest coal in the largest seams
and in the middle portions equally removed from the floor and roof.
As we pass towards the roof of a seam the coal passes by imperceptible
degrees into black slate, which is, in fact, mud, more oz less mixed
with carbonaceous matter.

So much for the varieties of coal depending upon purity or im-
purity, upon the relative proportion of earthy, incombustible, inorganic
matter, and of combustible organic matter.

But, aside from the earthy matter, the combustible or organic matter
of coal consists of two proximate elements mechanically mixed, viz:
carbon and bitumen; charcoal is nearly pure carbon; common tar or
pitch is very similar both in chemical composition and in general ap-
pearance to bitumen. If, then, we conceive a piece of charcoal, care-
fully burnt so that the vegetable structure is perfectly retained, to be
thoroughly impregnated with pitch or tar, we should have a substance
extremely similar to common coal. These two ingredients of coal
may also be easily separated from one another. This is constantly
done in the process of coking and in the manufacture of illuminating
gas. ‘The more volatile bitumen is driven otf in the form of gas or
collects in the pipes as coal tar and the carbon remains as coke.
Now, the relative proportion of these two ingredients also vary infi-
nitely in different coals. We may have a coal of pure carbon, or a
coal of pure bitumen, or a coal containing these two in every propor-
tion. It is the relative proportion of these which give rise to the
principal varieties of coal. A coal of pure carbon is called anthracite;
with a small amount of bitumen, say 10 to 20 per cent., it is called
dry coals or semi-bituminous coal; when there is 20 to 30 per cent. of
bitumen it is called bituminous or coking coal; when the per centage
is above this and the coal burns with a strong blaze and melts, it is
called fat coals. Besides these there are certain varieties depending
ON COAL. 149

upon hardness, fracture, &c., such, for instance, as cannel, which is a
highly bituminous coal, but very hard, compact, fine-grained, and
remarkably free from vegetable structure ; splint coal, &c.

There are at least three possible methods of accounting for these
varieties. 1st. The cause may have existed before the coal was laid
down, in the nature of the wood of which the coals were formed.
2d. The cause may be sought for in the changes through which the
vegetable matter passed in the process of becoming coal. 3d. We
may find it in changes to which the coal was subjected after it became
coal.

First. It is possible that the kind of wood may in some degree de-
termine the variety of coal, as, for instance, the accumulation of pines
and other resinous wood may have given rise to the fat coals, while
the non-resinous woods to the drier coals. This, I say, is possible,
particularly as we know that coniferous trees grew in considerable
abundance during the coal period ; but it seems very improbable as a
general explanation.

Second. We have already remarked that wood consists, chemically,
of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and a small quantity of nitrogen, which
may be neglected; and that pit coal consists of the same chemical
elements, only in different proportions, the carbon being in excess.
It is obvious, then, that in the fermentation process by which wood
is changed into coal a portion of the gases, hydrogen and oxygen,
escapes. he amount which thus escapes determines the variety of coal.

The composition of wood is variously stated by chemists ; in fact it
is not a definite compound, but consists of the mixture of several
proximate principles. It therefore varies much, according to the rela-
tive abundance of these principles, such as starch, sugar, cellulose, .
lignire ; in other words, according to the kind or even the age of the
wood. For the harder kinds of wood, such as the oak, Liebeg gives
the formula, C,, H,,°O,,. For softer kinds of wood, and par-
ticularly for succulent vegetable substances, the proportion of carbon
is not so great. Whether, however, the formula which I have
adopted be correct for the plants of the coal, or not, would not affect
the general correctness of the reasoning upon which my conclusions
are based. The composition of bitumen varies also very much, and
for the same reason, viz: that it is composed of several proximate
principles variously mixed. It is generally given as CHa odd
a variable but small amount of oxygen, from 2 to 4. The composition
of cannel coal is given by Regnault as C,, H,, O,.

WY Gd a5 ==) Cie: Hi nib
Bitumen . +1. '== Cy9/Higa0s
Cannel coal = C,, H,; 0;

It will be seen that the proportion of carbon is greatest in coal and
least in bitumen, but that the most striking difference between these
substances and wood is the almost entire want of oxygen. Now, ac-
cording to Liebeg, wood in the process of decay in the open air forms
carbonic acid (C O,) and water (fH O,) and the carbonic acid is
formed by the union of the carbon with the oxygen of the wood, while
the water is formed by the union of the hydrogen of the wood with
150 LECTURES

the oxygen of the av. As in the formation of carbonic acid, oxygen
is consumed faster than the carbon; if the decay goes on the residue
will be at least pure carbon.

Woodyppyy le tecls sus steedeeelels SC oid Onl Ni
Deduct C O, + H (the H unites with O of air) = C,, H,, O,, = partly decayed.
Deduct 5 (Cc Waiic= CU, CO. 5) 4- adv He oe. — —C,, H,, 0,9 = further decayed.

But if decomposition take place out of contact, or with limited sup-
ply of air, the process is more complex. The carbon, hydrogen, and
oxygen combine with one another in various proportions, and the pro-
ducts of decomposition are: carbonic acid (C O,,) carburetted hydro-
gen (C H, or C, H,,) and water (H O,) and thus result the deadly
choke-damp (C O,) and the dreaded fire-damp (C H,) of the coal
mines.

Let us now see how, according to this theory, the different varieties
of coal may be formed.

Wadd © ==" Cr tt
Deduct TAG Oe Oe situ ateWo
Deduct 22 H oxydized by the air pee Nate Me ae eee
C25

and twenty-five atoms of carbon alone remain; and this is the com-
postion of pure anthracite. Again: If decomposition takes place out
of contact of air, bitumen or bituminous coal is formed. Thus—

Wioodiniebatin dtd. Java iDbureaelon the eh bok wais ake = Oye He giGie:
Deduet)9. C O;.= C, Ore
Deduct 3 HO = He Ox; == Oy Big Ong
Deduct. 3 CH, = C, H, ——-—
The remainder is cannel coal..... ...... = Oy gi uO
Again:
INVIOUU s cccbe she cuts calnecincear Kolgetnce Se he, ee ee
and if from this we deduct
10 atoms carbonic acid = C,, Ox (22
3 atoms olefiant gas =—C, Le ies a) "eiibectea Shan ae
the remainder is bitumen...........cccesecececees == is Oped oie PON i Se

In the same manner, by supposing the union of these three elements
to take place in various proportions, under circumstances of more or
less imperfect access of air, we may, without difficulty, account for all
the different varieties of coal.

There can be no doubt, it seems to me, that bituminous coal is ac-
tually formed by this play of affinities. But with reference to the
extremes of this series, viz: anthracite and bitumen, naptha, &c., it
seems much more probable that these have been the result of an after
change, the last of the three possible causes with which we started.

In the third place, then, we have many reasons for believing that
bituminous coal is really the normal coal, and that which is always
formed by the play of affinities, of which we have spoken above, and
that anthracite and bitumen are the result of the action of igneous
agency upon such bituminous coal,
ON COAL. 151

We have already said that bituminous coal may be considered as a
mechanical mixture of carbon and bitumen, and these two may easily
be separated by heat. Anthracite is the residue after separation, and
bitumen and naptha is the matter separated by distillation and con-
densed elsewhere. Asin the gas manufactories we find bituminous
coal decomposed—a part remaining behind as coke, (pure! carbon,) a
part passing off as gas and a part collecting in pipes as coal tar—so
in the laboratory of Nature coal beds subjected to heat give rise to the
same three substances; anthracite is left behind, coal gas is dis-
charged into the atmosphere and bitumen collects in subterranean
pipes and gives rise to naptha and bituminous springs, pitch lakes,
&c. Thus, the enormous lake of boiling pitch in Trinidad is, proba-
bly, in connexion with coal strata below. If so, such coal will be left
in the condition of anthracite. All the strata of the earth are subject
to change under the influence of heat: limestones become marbles,
clays become slate. This change is called by geologists metamor-
phism. Now, the proposition is that anthracite is metamorphic coal.
The proofs of this proposition are as follows:

In the first place, anthracite is never found except in regions very
much disturbed by igneous agency, the strata highly inclined, contorted
and broken; and even in the same coal field the coal is anthracite or
bituminous, according as the region is more or less disturbed. Thus,
in eastern Pennsylvania, where the coal strata are very much con-
torted and sometimes perpendicular, (fig. 9,) the coal is all anthra-
cite; while in western Pennsylvania, where the strata are nearly
horizontal, the coal is bituminous. The actual transition of anthra-
cite into bituminous coal cannot be studied with advantage in Penn-
sylvania, because the coal strata have been carried away to such an
extent that only outlying patches are left; but in Wales the same
seam may be traced from the bituminous to the anthracite condition ;
so that there can be no doubt that, in this case at least, anthracite is
metamorphic coal.

Second. Anthracite is never found except in metamorphic rocks,
and conversely all coal contained in metamorphic strata is anthracite.
This universal connexion of two things proves, as it seems to me,
beyond doubt, their community of origin; that they have a common
cause. Thus, in the lowest stratified or primary rocks, where the
rocks are altogether metamorphic, and even in the silurian, where a
less complete metamorphism is almost universal, what little coal is
found is always anthracite. In the coal measures we have coal both
bituminous and anthracitic, but the anthracite always in altered and
the bituminous in unaltered rocks. As we pass upward we find
anthracite more rare, because metamorphism is more rare and local ;
and when metamorphism entirely disappears in the tertiary rocks we
find that anthracite disappears also.

Third. Trap dykes, as it is well known, are formed by the out-
breaking and outpouring of melted rock (lava) forced up through
the superincumbent stratified rocks, which are altered and rendered
metamorphic by the contact. Now, when a dyke passes through coal
strata the coal is always thoroughly coked by the contact; that is, it
is changed into a substance identical in chemical composition with
152 LECTURES

anthracite. These two substances are doubtless similar in their
origin as well as in chemical composition, the great difference in their
density being due only to the pressure under which the change took
place. Anthracite is produced slowly under enormous pressure, while
coke is produced under ordinary atmospheric pressure, and the rapid
disengagement of gas renders it light and porous.

THE PLANTS OF THE COAL—THEIR STRUCTURE AND AFFINITIES.

Geology is the latest developed among the sciences. This is not an
accidental phenomenon in the history of human intellectual progress,
but one absolutely necessary, and the cause of which we can clearly
trace. The great divisions of science in the order of their complexity
are mathematics, mechanical sciences, chemical sciences, organical
sciences, and geology. The first is limited to ideas of number and
quantity ; the second comprises, in addition to the preceding, ideas of
force; the third, in addition, ideas of chemical affinity; the fourth, in
addition to the preceding, ideas of life, and the last, in addition to
all the preceding, ideas of historic development. Now, this order of
increasing complexity has necessitated a corresponding order of devel-
opment in time. It is impossible that mechanics and physics should
have assumed even the form of a science until mathematics was
already mature. And so of the rest. Together they form a column,
of which mathematics is the pediment and geology the capital; or,
rather, I should say, a magnificent temple, of which mathematics
forms the solid foundation and geology the heaven pointing spire; the
most wonderful and perfect work which human genius has erected in
honor of Deity.

It is evident, therefore, that geology was compelled to await the
development of other sciences. She could not come forward until her
time was fulfilled, for her problems are the most complex and difficult
which are to be found in the whole range of science. It is evident,
also, that the geologist must be thoroughly accomplished in all de-
partments of science. He must be thoroughly grounded in mechanical
and physical sciences, or how shall he reason successfully on the up-
heaval of continents, the formation of mountain chains, the dynamics
of earthquakes and volcanoes, the actions of currents, &c. He must
be familiar with chemistry, for disintegration and consolidation of
rocks, the deposits of springs, the formation of coal, are chemical
questions. Still more necessary to him is an acquaintance with organic
science, for the organic remains are the Divine hieroglyphs in which
the history of the earth is recorded. It is this very complexity, this
very elevation in the scale, this almost universal culture required of
her votaries, which constitutes the greatest obstacle in the way of real
progress in this science. I know it is thought by many that geology
is an easy and simple science, that any one, by industrious collection
of fossils and persevering exercise of memory, may be a good geolo-
gist; but this is a sad and very pernicious error. In so vast a science
collectors of materials must be numerous, but the philosophical gen-
eralizer is very rare. In so vast an edifice the fetchers of stone and
brick and mortar are innumerable, but heaps of brick and stone and
ON COAL. 153

mortar do not constitute a temple; the one may be accumulated by
the human hand, the other can be constructed only by the human
mind, and in this case only by genius of the highest order. In fact,
a master builder in this science has not yet lived. No man has yet
been able to sketch the outlines of this noble work with a hand so firm
and decided that all shall labor in harmony and mutual confidence,
and the work shall thenceforward proceed with steadiness and cer-
tainty.

In some sense, therefore, all departments of science may be looked
upon as the handmaids of geology. And it is curious and instructive
to observe how, in reward for their services, she stamps each one with
the seal of philosophy ; how each science becomes, in her service,
more comprehensive, more philosophic, more exact. The problems
in physics and chemistry which geology proposes are so difficult, the
conditions under which well known forces act are so numerous and
complicated, and the scale on which they operate are so vast, that
every formula must be revised, every law must be made more exact.
Thus, under the guidance of geology, these two old and mature
sciences seem entering on a new and higher career.

But perhaps the most remarkable instance of the favorable change
and philosophic character which the advent of geology has impressed
upon other departments of science is to be found in the case of natural
history.

The zoology and botany of the last age were little more than the
knowledge of the names and external forms of species, and their ar-
rangement according to an arbitrary system of classification. But it
is evident that such zoology and botany can be of little service to
geology. The external form of an extinct species is seldom seen.
Generally all that we have of an animal is a few bones or teeth, some-
times a single scale; of a plant, a fragment of wood or a leaf, and the
problem which geology proposes is, from such meagre materials to
reconstruct the whole organism. ‘To the unskilled this seems impos-
sible. But the harmony which exists between all parts of an organ-
ism is so perfect that each may be said to necessitate every other. A
complete knowledge of the laws of organization would thus enable us,
from any one part, to reconstruct the whole. One strain of song in-
stantly suggests all that is necessary to make the harmony complete.
Thus a profounder knowledge of animals and plants becomes neces-
sary—a knowledge not only of external forms, but also of internal
structure and the harmonious relation of parts. Classification is no
longer an ingenious artifice to facilitate the acquisition of knowledge,
but becomes the highest expression of knowledge, the epitome of na-
ture. Thus, from a mere mass of barren details, natural history has
risen to the highest philosophic rank. Even astronomy has been
compelled to take a lesson of philosophy from her younger sister.
She must relax the severity of her dogmas. She must modify some-
what the absoluteness of her assertions concerning the stability of all
things, fenced, though they be, round about with mathematical for-
mule, now since the idea of infinite time has been introduced by
geology. ‘The causes which tend to destroy the stability of the solar
system,’ says astronomy, ‘‘are infinitely small, and therefore may
154 LECTURES

be rejected from the equation.’’ True, but infinitely small quantities

accumulating through infinite ages become jinite, in fact, become very

important; for it is these very same infinitely small residual quanti- ©

ties, rejected by astronomy as of no value, which, by their accumula-
tion, constitute the progressive development of the earth and solar
system. Without such small uncompensated forces history, whether
geological, national, or individual, would be impossible. An insect
philosopher, the span of whose life is a single day, attentively ob-

serving the daily cycle of the healthy human body, might rationally ~
assert the stability of the human system. The body, at the end of ©
twenty-four hours, has come back to the same spot whence it started. —

At least the variation, if any, must be infinitely small, and therefore,
for all purposes of insect life, may be rejected as of no value. And
yet it is the accumulation of this same infinitely small variation which
constitutes the growth and progressive development of the body. This
is not an exaggerated illustration, for 2,000 years, the whole age of
astronomy, is but one day, yea, but a small fraction of a day, in the
geological history of the earth.

The flora of the coal period is more complete than that of any pre-
vious or succeeding geological epoch. The whole number of fossil
species of plants known is probably not far from 2,000. Of these,
according to estimates made more than ten years ago, about 816 are
from the ‘‘ coal measures.’’ The constant additions which have been
made since that time, particularly by Dr. Newberry and others, from
an examination of the coal fields of our own country, would probably
bring the number up to at least 900. Probably, therefore, nearly if
not quite one-half of all known fossil plants belong to this period. I
have already said that a coal seam is made up of the remains of such
plants, yet it is not in the coal seams themselves that we find the best
preserved specimens of coal plants. On the contrary, the vegetable
matter is here so thoroughly disorganized that it is only by means of
the microscope that we are able to detect its original structure. It is
rather in the associated shale strata that the most beautiful impres-
sions occur, particularly in the overlying black slate. Between the
thin sheets of this slate the stems and leaves are as perfectly preserved,
every vein and nerve, as between the leaves of the botanist’s herbarium.
This fact, viz: that the well-preserved plants are always found in
abundance in this position, and never in the coal seam proper has, as
it seems to me, an important bearing upon the theory of coal de-
posit. But of this we shall speak again in another place. You have
here before you a magnificent slab of black slate, profusely covered
with beautiful impressions of leaves and stems of ferns and calamites.
In this case, as perhaps in most others, the impressions, though well-
defined, are not conspicuous at a distance, because the color of the
ground and of the figures are so nearly alike, but in some cases, when
the shale background is light-colored, the relief of the coal-black
impressions is very beautiful. ‘The newly exposed roof of a coal mine
has been compared by Dr. Buckland: to the most magnificent fresco
painted ceilings of Italian buildings.

But although the number of species of coal plants is so great, yet
ON COAL. 155

coal is supposed to be composed principally of the remains of four
families only, viz: Ferns, Sigillarice, Lepidodendrons, and Calamites.
The abundance of individuals belonging to these families is so great,
and their size so enormous, that they must have given character to
the vegétation of this period, and may therefore be taken as represen-
tatives of its flora. As such, therefore, I shall consider them, and it
will be our object in this lecture to give you some idea of their appear-
ance and affinities.

There are certain periods in the history of our race upon which we
are apt to gaze with peculiar interest and admiration—when the
human mind, awakening from its sleep of barbarism, rejoices in the
ostentatious display of its strength and its beauty, so in the history
of our earth, the period of the coal stands out beyond all others as the
‘‘ heroic age,’’ when nature seemed to delight herself in the fantastic
exercise of power, and to exhaust her strength in the production of
vegetable giants and monsters. It will be my object to show that this
age, although to the popular mind it may appear a mythological age,
an age of wonders and prodigies, an age to which ordinary principles
of reasoning are inapplicable ; that this age is but one chapter, a page,
in a connected history, one step in the accomplishment of the unvary-
ing plans of Deity.

A glance at these drawings of coal plants will give you some general
idea of the strange:forms which constituted the flora of this period.
But it is not only a vague general idea of external form which I wisk
to give you; we have already had too much of this in popular lectures
on geology. If we would grasp the real thought expressed in the
vegetation of this period ; if we would understand the true significance
of the coal flora in the Divine economy ; if we would catch the key-
note of this Divine harmony, we must take more than a superficial
glance—we must look deeply, thoughtfully, reverently. But, in order
to make myself understood, I find it necessary to step a little out of
the way, to give you a sketch of the great divisions of the vegetable
kingdom and the characteristics of each, so that, by comparison, we
may be able to determine the position of the coal plants. Whatever
is noble and elevating in science must be equally interesting to every
intelligent mind ; but in order to appreciate it, it is absolutely neces-
sary to master in some degree uninteresting technicalities. The jewel
is inclosed always in an unattractive casket of lead ; we must find the
key before we can gain the prize.

The vegetable kingdom, then, is divided into two great classes: the
Phenogams, or flowering plants, and the Cryplogams, or flowerless.
The Cryptogams may be again divided into cellular and vascular Cryp-
togams. The cellular Cryptogams, such as the mosses, fungi lichens,
sea weeds, &c., consist entirely of cellular tissue, while the vascular
Cryptogams, such as ferns, club-mosses, equisetaceze, (horse-tails,) com-
bine the vascular tissue with the cellular. The Phcenogams may also
be divided into two sub-classes, viz: the Gymnosperms, or naked seeded
plants, and the Angiosperms, or. covered seeded plants. The Gymnos-
perms bear their seeds naked or exposed, either near the base of an
open capillary leaf, as in the pine family, (Conifers,) fig. 12, or else
156 LECTURES

on its edges, as in the cycas family. Figs. 12 and 13 represent cross
Fig. 12. Fig. 13. sections of the capillary leaves of naked

seeded plants. The Angiosperms, on the

DL P Pa a
X contrary, bear their seeds enfolded within
the capillary leaf or seed vessel, (figs. 14 and
ey Fig 15,) as in all the ordinary flowering plants.
PE The Angiosperms are again subdivided into
ow ) Monocotyledons, (one cotyledon or seed leaf
mm” in the embryo,) fig. 16, and Dicotyledons,

(t wo seed leaves in the embryo,) fig. 17.

ig. 16. Fig. 17.

9

Dicotyledons,
Phenogams, { Monocotyledons,
Conifers & Cycade, Gymnosperms.

Vascular Cryptogams.
Cellular Cryptogams,

Now, the most important means of determining the families of coal
plants are the internal structure of the stem and the venation of the
leaves. Generally, indeed, these are the only means at our command.
Let us inquire, then, how the great divisions of the vegetable king-
dom are characterized in these respects.

_ Among Pheenogams there are two very distinct types or plans of
internal structure of the stem, viz: the Hzogenous, or outside-growing,
and the Hndogenous, or inside-growing ; the one represented by the
hard-wood trees and shrubs, the other by the palms, canes, grasses,
&c. On cross section of an exogen (fig. 18) we find three distinct
zones of tissue. In the centre a zone of cellular tissue, the pith ;
exterior to this a zene of wood, and around this again a zone of cellular
tissue, the bark. The zone of wood is, moreover, subdivided into con-
centric rings, which represent the annual layers of growth, and sepa-
rated into wedges by radiating lines of cellular tissue (silver grain)
connecting the cellular tissue of the pith with the cellular tissue of
the bark. In the Hndogens,
on the contrary, we have the
woody tissue in the form of
thread-like bundles, irregu-
larly interspersed amongst
the cellular. The dry stalk
of an Indian corn is a fa-
miliar illustration of this
structure. Ifsuch a stalk is
broken across and the two
parts carefully separated, the
thread-like bundles of woody and vascular tissue are observed to draw

Angiosperms.

Cryptogams,

ca

ON COAL. 157

out from the softer cellular tissue. Here we observe no distinct pith; on
distinct bark separable from the wood ; the wood not collected into a
distinct zone; not arranged into concentric layers, nor divided by me-
dullary rays. The exogenous plan of structure includes the Dicoty-
ledons and the pine and cycas families; while endogen may be con-
sidered synonymous with monocotyledon.

In the vascular Cryptogams the woody and vascular tissue is still
differently arranged. The stem of a club-moss, for instance, consists
of a mass of cellular tissue inclosed in a rind of the same tissue more
condensed, with a single central thread of vascular tissue. Sometimes
there seems to be in the centre of this something like a very imperfect
pith. The cellular Cryptogams, as their name indicates, consist

entirely of cellular tissue.

It will be observed that, in the general structure and mode of
growth, the family of pines (Gymnosperms) is allied to the highest
order of plants, viz: the Dicotyledons, while in its reproduction it is
below the Monocotyledons. This latter position is beyond doubt the
true one; and a more attentive examination of the wood of pine in
comparison with that of Dicotyledons will confirm us in this view.
As this is a very important point, and as much false theorizing on
the subject of the plants of the coal has been the result of a miscon-
ception of the true position of conifers, I will dwell a little more
minutely than I should have otherwise considered it necessary to do.

The wood of Dicotyledons consists of two dis- Fie. 20.
tinct tissues, viz: the woody tissue proper and the .
vascular tissue. The woody tissue proper is com-
posed of elongated cells, too small to be distin-
guished by the naked eye, while the vascular tissue
is composed of very much larger cells or tubes.
The visible pores in. such wood as oak, chestnut,
vine, &c., belong to this tissue. Fig. 20 repre-
sents cross section of two wooden wedges, with
their medullary rays. _The comparative size of
the wood cells and the vessels is well shown. The
difference is often much greater than in the figure.
In pine wood, on the contrary, there is no distinction of woody and
vascular tissue; but the so-called wood consists entirely of an open,
thin-walled tissue, intermediate in every respect between the vas-
cular and the woody layer and thinner walled than the true woody,
but smaller than the true vascular. This is shown in the cross
section, (fig. 21.) On a longitudinal section, (fig. 22,) the cells

of pine wood are marked by large disc-like elliptical plates, which
are entirely characteristic of this family. The smallest fragment
is sufficient to distinguish it with the utmost certainty.

_ Now, if we trace the development of the tissues, either by passing
from the lowest to the highest plants, or from the earliest embryonic
to the mature condition of one of the higher plants, we shall find that
all the different kinds of tissue are modifications of the cellular; that
there is a more and more complete differentiation of form and special-

158 LECTURES

Figs. 21 and 22.

ization of function as development progresses,

below all other flowering plants.
plants with respect to the venation of their leaves.
plants are divided into three distinct kinds, viz:

veined, and the dicholomously veined. In the
first the veins branch and again run together,
forming an inextricable net-work. (Fig. 23, a.)
In the second the veins run parallel from one end
of the leaf to the other, connected only by slender
transverse bars, so that the leaf may be torn into
parallel — rib-
bons. (Fig.
23,6.) Inthe
third the veins
branch, but do
not run_ to-
gether again.
(Fig. 23, cand
d.) The first
is characteris-
tic of the Dico-
tyledons ; the
second of the
Monocotyle-
dons; and the
third of the /erns—perhaps of the vascular Crypfogams generally.
The leaves of cellular Cryptogams are veinless. In this enume-
ration it will be observed I have not mentioned the Conifers. To
which class, then, do the leaves of the pine family belong? Undoubt-
edly to the third. This fact cannot be easily demonstrated upon
leaves of ordinary pines, for their cylindrical leaves show no veins,
or, if visible, they seem to be parallel. But there are a few broad-
leaved Conifers, and these always show the dichotomous branch-
ing of the veins in the most unmistakable manner. In the
Salisburia, for instance, we have as beautiful an instance of this
mode of branching as can be found among the Ferns. The leaves
of this Conifer are about two or three inches broad, the shape and
venation very similar to that represented in Fig. 23, c, but much
more beautiful. This close alliance in the venation of the leaves
between the pines and the ferns is another evidence of the low
position of the former among flowering plants. Thus it appears that
this remarkable family of plants is allied to the highest Phenogams

With respect to their venation the leaves of —

the reticulated, or netted veined, the parallel’

The longitudinal system is first formed by modifi-
cation of the cellular, and then this is again differ- —
entiated into the two forms of woody and vascular —
tissue. Now, in the pine family, this last differ-
entiation has not taken place. So far as its tissues —
are concerned, therefore, this family should rank ~

Let us next examine the different classes of —
ON COAL. 159

in the general structure of its wood, and to the Cryptogams in the
venation of its leaves. If there was no other evidence we might be in
doubt as to its true position; but the simplicity of its reproduction
and of its tissues settles the question, as it seems to me, forever.
There are other points of alliance between pines and club-mosses,
which it would lead me too far to notice. In fact this family seems
to be, in a remarkable degree, both a connecting and an embryonic
type, and therefore, as we shall presently see, eminently calculated
to throw light upon the plants of the coal.

Let us now attempt to apply these principles in the interpretation
of the plants of the Coal, and particularly of the four families already
taken as representatives of the flora of this period, viz: the Ferns,
Sigillarie, Lepidodendron, and Calamites. We shall confine our atten-
tion principally to the second and third. With reference to the
Ferns there is little dispute; their unmistakable resemblance to the
ferns of the present flora leave no doubt as to their affinities. I will
only remark, in passing, that many of the coal genera of this family
seem to have aflinities also with the Cycade and Conifere. With
reference to the other three families the difficulty is much greater:
they are generally supposed, however, to be most nearly allied to the
Lycopodiacee (club-mosses) and the Equisetacece, (horse-tails ;) the
Sigillarie and Lepidodendrons being considered most nearly allied to
the club-mosses, and the Calamites to the horse-tails. If so, then we
are at once struck with the enormous size of the coal plants in com-
parison with their humble representatives at the present day. Stgil-
laric and Lepidodendrons attained the amazing height of seventy to
one hundred feet, and a diameter of five to six feet, while the club-
mosses of the present day seldom rise to an altitude of more thana
few inches. Calamites attain a diameter of fourteen or fitteen inches,
and a height of thirty to forty feet, while the horse-tails are among
our humblest plants. This enormous difference in size is sufficient of
itself to lead us to suspect that these are not true club-mosses and
horse-tails. Let us examine them more closely.

Here you have rude sketches of these families. This is Sigillaria.
This genus is so little known as to its external appearance that I
cannot represent or speak of it with any confidence. In almost every
case it is formed as a straight cylindrical trunk, without branches or
leaves. So that, although this plant is so common, yet its mode of
branching and the form of its leaves is still a matter of dispute among
botanists. In afew cases Sigillaria trunks have been found to biturcate
and produce long cylindrical branches. Ina single, perhaps doubt-
ful, case (Sig. lcpidodendrifolia) leaves have been found similar to
Lepidodendron. One of two views seems probable: either that many
so-called Lepidodendrons, so commonly found in connexion with
Sigillaria, are the branches of the latter, in which case the branching
and foliage of this genus are similar to the Lepidodendyon, or else
that Sigillaria, like tree ferns, were generally branchless, and that the
large fronds, (generally supposed to belong to Ferns,) which are so
commonly fouud strewed in profusion about their bases, were their
leaves. What I have represented by these sketches are therefore
ideal restorations on the former hypothesis, rather than actual speci-
160 LECTURES

mens. You will observe, then, the sparse dichotomous branching, the
cylindrical limbs with blunt extremities, so characteristic of the club-
moss, but which is found, also, in some species of pines. Like the club-
moss, too, the leaves are crowded, pointed, strung along the stem for .
some distance, but longer, slenderer, and more nearly resembling the
leaves of the pine. On this trunk you will observe the seal-like im-
pressions (sigilla) characteristic of this family, and from which its
name is derived. Also longitudinal depressions running from one
end of the trunk to the other, and along which the sigilla are arranged
in vertical rows. Thus each trunk of a Sigillaria resembled a noble
fluted doric ,column beautifully but variously sculptured the pattern
changing with the species. These sigillae are evidently leaf scars,
and therefore indicate the leaf arrangement peculiar to this family.

The Lepidodendron, of which you have here a drawing, was still
more lke the club-moss, the crowded leaves being shorter, rhomboidal,
and more scale-like, the same long, slender, cylindrical, sparse dichot-
omous branches. But even here we find an almost equal resem-
blance to Conifers, for it will be recollected that in a large number
of Conifers as the Juniperus, the Araucaria, &c., the same rhomboidal,
plaited scale-like leaves prevail. The impression of a shoot of an Arau-
caria could scarcely be distinguished from that of some species of club-
moss, except by superior size of the former. In its fructification there
is the same difficulty, for it is doubtful whether it most nearly resem-
bled the cone of pines, or the cone-like fructification of club-mosses,
although the recent investigations of Hooker leave little doubt that
the latter is the truer view. All that we know, then, of the external
appearance of these families lead us to the conclusion that they were
intermediate between pines and club-mosses, and that the Sigillaria
approached most nearly the pines, and the Lepidodendrons most nearly
the club-mosses.

Let us next see what light is thrown upon this subject by examina-
tion of the internal structure.

Fig. 24, Fig. 25.

Cross and longitudinal section of Sigillaria;
letters represent same as in fig. 24; fff the
leaves.

Cross section of Sigillaria: a the pith; b the
woody cylinder; c the cellular tissue; d the
rind; ethe bundles of vascular tissue running
from central sheath to the leaves.

ON COAL. 161

If we make a section of the stem of a Sigillaria, (figs 24 and 25,) we
find externally abark, or, more probably, a rind(a) of condensed cellu-
lar tissue, sometimes a half or an inch thick; within this an enormous
amount of loose cellular tissue,(c,) often 2 feet or more thick. Through
the centre of this runs a slender sheath(d) of vascular or woody tissue,
which in a Sigiilaria 5 feet in diameter is not more than 3 inches in
diameter; a mere thread of vascular in the midst of a mass of cellular
tissue. This again incloses a small pith (a) which occupies the very
centre of the trunk. These vascular cylinders, with their inclosed pith,
being the most indestructible portion of the trunk, are often found
alone, and described under the name of Hndogenites. Figs. 24 and 25
represent cross and longitudinal ideal sections of this plant, (a) the
cellular tissue of the pith, (b) the vascular or woody sheath, (c) the
mass of cellular tissue between the vascular sheath and (d) the rind,
(e) slender vascular bundles connecting the leaves with the central
sheath. Upon closer examination of this woody or vascular cylinder
(6) it is found to consist of concentric layers, somewhat analogous to the
layers of growth of exogenous trees, and divided into wedges by medul-
lary rays, like the tree exogens. Upon still closer examination, how-
ever, of a good cross section under a microscope (fig. 26) no distinction
of vascular and woody tissue, such as is found in the wood of Dicotylo-
dons, is observed, but the whole is made up of one kind of tissue, open
and thin-walled, in comparison with woody tissue proper, but closely
resembling the wood of pines. Buta longitudinal section shows no
disc-like markings such as characterize the wood of Conifers, but

Figs. 26 and 27. Fig. 28.

eer
TTT
CTT

CUCU CATO EU UOTE

THT TMT
TT TTT TTT

TOUT TTT

Fig. 28. A cross section and longitudinal section
+ Of a Sigillaria. The letters a, b, c, d, e represent
' same as in previous figs. 1, 2, 3 are the 3 layers

of the vascular cylinder b, m isa medullary ray.
reveals the fact that it consists entirely of spiral vessels, (figs. 27 and
27;) and that, therefore, the sheath of the Sigillaria consists of vascular
rather than of woody tissue. In consequence of the great predomi-
nance of cellular tissue, these stems, as well as those of the Lepido-
dendron and Calamites, are generally found very much flattened by
pressure,
Il gs
162 LECTURES

A cross and longitudinal section of the Lepidodendron shows a
similar but still less highly organized structure, (figs. 29 and 30.)
Fig. 29. Fig. 30.

The vascular sheath is still smaller, extremely thin, forming on
cross section an exceedingly narrow zone. It is moreover not separated
into concentric rings nor divided by medullary rays. The cellular
tissue both within and without the sheath is very open and loose.
The rind (d) consists of similar cellular tissue, but more condensed,
and there seems to be no line of demarcation, but a gradual transition;
in other words, there is apparently no true bark. Here, also, we find
long slender bundles of vascular tissue (spiral vessels) connecting the
leaves with the central sheath. Microscopic examination of the vas-
cular sheath shows no sign of woody tissue.

Calamites we know much less about, but it would seem that in them
there is a still greater predominance of cellular tissue, if, indeed, they
possessed any vascular tissue at all. They are often found pressed
perfectly flat, indicating that they were either hollow, or more probably
consisted of a simple rind of condensed cellular tissue, inclosing looser
tissue of the same kind. Of this plant, however, we know too little to
draw any conclusion as to its affinities.

Now, if we examine by sections a common Lycopodium, or club-moss,
we find an internal structure closely resembling what we have found
in Sigillaria and Lepidodendron. Externally a thin but tough rind,
or epidermis of condensed cellular tissue, inclosing a mass of very loose
cellular tissue, through the centre of which runs a slender thread of
vascular tissue, sending off in every direction still slenderer threads of
the same to the crowded leaves. Upon longitudinal section the vascu-
lar tissue is found to be chiefly spiral ducts. The principal difference
between this structure and that of the Lepidodendron is that the latter
has a more perfect pith, and in this respect seems to be allied to the
higher order of plants. But I am convinced, from personal examina-
tion of the Lycopodium, that its vascular thread was the outline of both
pith and medullary rays. I call more particular attention to this
observation, because, as far as I know, it is new, and asit seems to me
calculated to throw much light on the affinities of coal plants.

This very remarkable structure, viz: the existence of a slender
central thread of vascular tissue in the midst of a large mass of very
loose cellular, does not exist, I believe, among existing plants in the
ON COAL. 163

mature condition, except in the family of club-mosses. In the embry-
onic state, however, of the Dicotyledons we find something similar.

If we make a cross section of a Dicotyledon soon after germination,
t. e., while the first two or three pairs of leaves are expanding, we will
find a structure very similar to that of the Lepidodendron. We find
in the centre a small pith surrounded by a thin zone of vascular tissue,
(mostly spiral vessels,) around this a large mass of cellular tissue, des-
tined to become partly bark and partly wood, but which is yet neither
one nor the other, and the whole inclosed in a thin epidermis of con-
densed cellular tissue.

Thus it appears, both from external and internal examination, that
these families combined the characters of pines and club-mosses. Or
if we are disposed to attach more importance to their exogenous affini-
ties, and thus to place them among the pines, then we must compare
them with the earliest embryonic condition of this class. The true
view, I am convinced, is, that they are both connecting and embryonic
types, or connecting types with embryonic characters. In fact, all
embryonic types seem to be more or less connecting, and conversely
connecting types, at least in Palcontology, are also embryonic. Now,
what I have said of the Sigillaria and Lepidodendron is equally true,
I believe, of other coal plants. I have taken these two because they
are better known; but all that is known concerning other genera
seem to point in the same direction. They all seem to be more or less
connecting types. The Sphenophyllum, Néggerathia, and probably
many of the so-called Ferns of this period are of this character.

Let us inquire now what important conclusions may be drawn from
what we have seen of the affinities of these plants:

1. The distinction of plants into Cryptogams and Phenogams is
considered by botanists a fundamental one. Many recent investiga-
tions, however, have combined to throw some doubt upon the entire
distinctness of these classes. The study of the Coal Plants, particu-
larly of the two families Sigillaria and Lepidodendron, it seems to me
entirely destroys this as a fundamental division, or, at least, as one at
all comparable to the great divisions of the animal kingdom. The
pines belong unequivocally to the Phenogams and the club-mosses to
the Cryptogams. If the Sigillaria and Lepidodendron are connecting
links between these two families then the classes to which they belong
can no longer be considered as fundamentally distinct types or plans
of structure. The study of animals, both existing and extinct, have
confirmed the wonderful generalization of Cuvier. The four types—
Vertebrata, Articulata, Mollusca, and Radiata—were as distinct during
the paleeozoic period as now. If such distinct plans of structure
exist in the vegetable kingdom at all they have not yet been indicated
as such by botanists. The distinction into exogen and endogen would
seem more likely to be fundamental, as this is apparently not a mere
distinction of rank or complexity of structure, but of plan of struc-
ture. If so, then we shall probably be able to trace these two types
downwards until, overleaping the distinction of Phenogams and
Cryptogams as one of complexity of structure only, they reach the
lower confines of the vegetable kingdom.

2. We have seen that ‘the plants ‘of the coal are most, if not all of
164 LECTURES.

them, connecting types with embryonic characters. This is not an
isolated fact, but one which meets us at every step in the course of our
study of the geologic history of the earth. It is but one illustration
of a general law, a law of the deepest philosophic import, and yet one
which is still very imperfectly recognized among geologists. The law
may be thus stated: The first introduced animals or plants of any
class have been combining types, 7. e., have united within themselves
the characters of several families, now distinct and even widely sepa-
rated. Thus the first vertebrates introduced were fishes, but not
typical fishes, as we might be led a priori to expect, but Placoids and
Ganotds, families which, particularly in their earlier representatives,
united with ordinary fish characters others which connected them with
the class of reptiles, and even of mammals; and still others which
connect them with the embryonic condition of the typical fishes. It is
this combination of embryonic characters with others which connect
them with the higher classes, this union of high and low characters,
which has given rise to all the dispute concerning the position of these
families in the scale of Fishes as well as to much of the difference of
opinion concerning the law of succession of animals in Geology.
Again, the first introduced reptiles, viz: the reptiles found in the old
red sandstone and coal, are the most remarkable instances of con-
necting types of which we have any knowledge. In the first place
they seem to have been amphibious, (in the proper sense of the word,)
and thus to have connected land animals and water animals, air
breathing with water breathing, and all of them united characters,
which are now represented by widely separated families. To give a
single instance: the carboniferous reptile, recently described by Pro-
fessor Wyman and exhibited at the last meeting of the Scientific As-
sociation at Albany, so remarkably combined characters which are now
parcelled out between the three families of Batrachians, Saurians, and
Ophidians, that this distinguished comparative anatomist seemed
almost at a lossas to which of these families to assign it. He decided,
however, that it most nearly resembled a Salamandroid Batrachian
with characters closely connecting it with the other families already
mentioned.

The Labyrinthodon of the new red sandstone has been classed by
some anatomists with Batrachians, and by others with crocodiles.
There seems yet a doubt whether it should be called a tailless ercco-
dile or a crawling frog with crocodilian teeth. The huge Saurians of
the secondary period combined reptilian with fish, and even some
mammalian characters. Even in the tertiary period and in the intro-
duction of the highest animals this law is not forgotten. The recent
investigations of Professor Gwen have shown that the first introduced
Pachyderms were not typical Pachyderms, but that they combined the
characters of Pachyderms and Ruminants to such a degree that it is
almost impossible to assign them with certainty to one or the other
order. In fact, the study of these extinct forms has led this great
anatomist to class the Pachyderms and Ruminants together as sub-
divisions of one and the same order.

Thus in every case in the earliest faunze and flore one class stood
for many. ‘The earliest families combined the characters of several

-
ON COAL. 165

families or classes, and stood as their representative until these fami-
lies or classes were separately introduced. The Placoids and Ganoids,
for instance, stood during almost the whole paleozoic period the sole
representatives of the vertebrate type, combining in themselves the
characters of all classes, and thus prophesying their coming, until
Nature was fully prepared for their introduction. The Stigil/aria and
Lepidodendron stood as the representatives of both Cryptogam and
Phenogam, until these two ideas were separately and more distinctly
expressed by the subsequent introduction of the typical forms of these
two classes. It is as if Nature first sketched out her work in general
terms and then elaborated each subordinate idea in separate families ;
all these families, taken together as an organic whole, still containing
the original idea in a more completely developed form, as if the pro-
blem of organic nature was first expressed in a few simple but com-
prehensive symbols and then differentiated. Organic nature has
often been compared to a broken chain, the disjointed links of which
are the widely separated and distinctly marked families of the present
fauna and flora, and the connecting links of which are to be found
deep buried in the strata of the earth. But the complexity, the
beauty, and, more than all, the life, growth, and development of Na-
ture, is not to be represented by any such miserable mechanical con-
trivance asachain. It is rather a tree—a tree of life—a tree whose
trunk is deeply rooted in the lowest paleeozoic strata, whose first
giant arms are given off in the carboniferous, which branch again in
the secondary and again in the tertiary periods, while its extreme
branchlets, and also its flower and fruit, are the fauna and flora of the
present epoch. The object of geology is to trace each branch to its
fellow branch, and each limb to its fellow limb, and thus gradually to
restore the whole noble form and determine the laws of its growth.

This differentiation, this passing from simplicity to complexity,
from unity through diversity to a higher unity, is the fundamental
law of development. Let me illustrate my meaning by a few simple
examples: The ultimate anatomical elements of every organized body,
whether animal or vegetable, are cells. The whole body is made up
of cells, and all the bodily functions are performed by cells. In fact,
the body may be looked upon as an organized community of indi-
vidual cells. Now, if we trace these cells from their earliest condition
in the embryo to their mature condition in the fully developed animal
or plant, or from the lowest animal or plant regularly to the top of
the scale, we will observe a most beautiful instance of the differen-
tiation of which I speak. The cells are at first all alike, simple and
globular, and each performs all the functions appertaining to cells,
though comparatively imperfectly. But as development advances the
cells begin to take on different forms and to perform different func-
tions. Some become nervous cells, some muscular cells, some biliary
cells, &c., until, in the mature condition and in the highest animals,
the diversity of form and specialization of function reaches the highest
point, each form of cell being confined to the performance of a single
function.

If, instead of the ultimate anatomical elements, the cells, we take
the proximate anatomical elements, the organs, or even the regions of
166 LECTURES.

the body, still the same differentiation of form and specialization of
faction is observable as we pass from the embryonic to the mature
condition, or from the lowest to the highest animals. I might give
many other examples taken from the organic kingdom. I will give
but one other example, and that taken from a still higher kingdom.
Human society is also an organized body, the ultimate anatomical
elements of which are individuals. Now, in the earliest conditions of
human society we find these elements, so far as their social functions
are concerned, identical. Hach man performs all the social functions
apertaining to man. He is his own tailor, shoemaker, agriculturist,
scientific man, &c. But in proportion as society advances in the same
proportion does specialization of social functions advance, until, if we
could conceive of a society perfectly organized on a purely material
basis, 7. e. according to the French material philosophy, then the
social function of each individual would be reduced to the narrowest
possible limits. This is only impossible or undesirable on account of
man’s moral and spiritual nature. Still it is no less evident that, in
so far as human society is a material organization, specialization of
function, differentiation is the law of development.

Now, it will be recollected that in the geological history of animals
and plants we have everywhere found the same differentiation of form
and specialization of function. As in the history of the animal body,
one cell form in the embryo was the representative of many widely
separated cell forms in the mature animal; so also in the geological
history of that greater and more complex organism, the animal and
vegetable kingdom, one form in the early periods stood as the repre-
sentative of many widely separated forms in its present mature con-
dition. Am I not justified, then, in saying that the great law which
has governed the introduction of successive animal and vegetable spe-
cies is that of gradual development of the animal and vegetable king-
dom as an organic whole ?

It seems to me that all the dispute and misunderstanding on this
subject have been the result of too narrowa view, have arisen from fixing
the mind upon genera and species instead of upon the larger divisions
of classes and orders, upon the individual elements instead of the
organic whole. Development does not necessarily involve the idea of
progression in all the individual elements. In the differentiation of
the cells of the living body, of the individuals of an advancing com-
munity, or of the forms of an advancing fauna, the whole organism
progresses, but as a necessary result of differentiation, while the high-
est individuals are successively higher and higher, the lowest, consid-
ered in themselves, and not as parts of an organized whole, may
become lower, Certainly the difference between the high and the low
becomes constantly greater. It should not surprise us, then, that
some of the lowest forms of animal life have been among the latest
introduced. It is precisely what, according to a true appreciation of
the law of development, we should be naturally led to expect.

Mr. Hugh Miller, the eminent Scotch geologist, in his admirable
work, ‘‘ Footprints of the Creator,’ by taking too limited a view of
this subject, has been led, if not into error, at least into a statement
of views which has misled many. In his zeal against the Lamarck-
ON COAL. 167

ian theorists, and more particularly against the author of the ‘‘ Ves-
tiges of Creation,’”’ he has attempted to show that, in certain families,
at least, the law has been that of degradation, instead of progression.
He has labored to prove that the earliest fishes have been the highest,
instead of the lowest fishes, and that the earliest reptiles have been
higher in the scale than the present reptiles. This idea has been
seized upon by some in this country, and it has been attempted, by
connecting it with the fall and degradation of man, to show that the
universal law of history, both geological and human, is degradation.
The disciples of this melancholy philosophy believe that divine power
successively introduced higher and higher classes, but each class, left
to its own laws, continued to degrade itself. The Deity repeatedly
attempted progression, by the miraculous introduction of successively
higher classes, but some malign influence as constantly interposed
and, to some extent, frustrated these attempts.

Now, it is evident that these theorizers have never thoroughly
grasped the fundamental idea of development. They mistake speciali-
zation for degradation. Upon this theory all our boasted modern
civilization, so far as it is the result of division of labor, specialization
of social functions, and mutual dependence of parts, is degradation.

Upon what ground are the Ganoids and Placoids considered the
highest fishes? Only on the ground that they combine with their
fish characters others which ally them with the higher classes, par-
ticularly with reptiles. In other words, they fall into the very error
of the Lamarckians themselves, viz: that of supposing that the ani-
mal kingdom is to be represented by a linear series, and that, there-
fore, the highest fishes approach tbe lowest reptiles, and the highest
reptiles the next higher class, &c. But the very reverse of this is the
fact. The animal kingdom should be represented by an infinitely
branching tree, rather than by an ascending right line; for we find,
in every case, classes approach each other in the lowest members of
each, and diverge as they ascend. Thus, it is the lowest, and not the
highest plants, which approach the animal kingdom. As we ascend,
they become more and more widely separated, until, in the highest
representatives of each, the separation reaches its highest point. So
also each branch of these kingdoms diverges from its fellow branches.
It is, therefore, in its lowest, not its highest, members that we should
naturally expect, according to the law of differentiation, the class of
fishes to approach the class of reptiles. In some sense, indeed, Pla-
coids and Ganoids may be considered higher than typical fishes.
Their brain and nervous system is more highly organized, their re-
production is more complex, their young are better cared for. But
it will be recollected that they are both connecting and embryonic
types. Now, it is their connecting characters which seem to elevate
them, for their true fish characters are all embryonic. As vertebrates
they may possibly be considered higher than other fishes, but as
fishes they must be considered low. Anatomists may place them
high but morphologists will always place them low. If the several
classes of the animal kingdom, diverging in various directions, be,
as it were, projected upon a vertical plane, the Placoids and Ganoids
may possibly occupy a higher position than the typical fishes; but,
168 LECTURES,

in such a rectilinear projection, all the variety and beauty of nature
is lost. It is evident that, for purposes of classification, the mor-
phologist is right ; for if the principle of the anatomists is consistently
carried out, no classification is possible, for animals the most diverse,
an echinoderm and a fish, may be brought together. The Divine classi-
fier, in the introduction of species, has followed the principle of the
morphologist.

Geology, then, teaches, and, as it seems to me, unmistakably
teaches, that the law of succession of animals and plants is that of
progressive development in time of these two kingdoms. But,
although there has been a development, it is not the development of
the Lamarckian, of the author of the Vestiges of Creation, and the
pantheist. The development which geology teaches is not a develop-
ment which is the result of physical laws and physical forces. If
there is anything which geology teaches with clearness, it is that
the animal and vegetable kingdoms did not commence as monads, or
vital points, but as organisms so perfect that even the maddest La-
marckian must admit that they could not have been formed by agency
of physical forces ; that species did not pass into one another by trans-
mutation, but that each species was introduced in full perfection, re-
mained unchanged during the term of their existence, and died in
full perfection ; that physical conditions cannot change one species
into another, but that a species will give up its life rather than its
specific character. In passing from the equator to the poles we pass
from one geographical fauna to another, from one set of species to
another, but observe no transmutation, but only substitutions ; so
also in passing from the oldest geological to the present fauna we
pass from one set of species to another ; not, however, by transmuta-
tion, but always by substitution. This has been repeated so many
thousand times in the geological history of the earth that there is
no room for doubt on the subject. As far as the evidence of geology
extends, each species was introduced by the direct miraculous interfer-
ence of a personal intelligence. There has, indeed, been a constantly
increasing series, but the connexion between the terms of the series
has not been physical or genetic, but intellectual ; not founded in the
laws of reproduction, but in the eternal counsels of the Almighty.
There has, indeed, been a development, but not a development the
force of which exists within the thing developing ; but rather the de-
velopment of a great work of art, under the hand of the Divine
Artist—a work conceived in eternity, and elaborated throughout all
time. What an overwhelming idea this thought gives us of the un-
changeableness, the all-comprehensive intelligence and foreknowledge
of the Deity! The infinite diversity of nature, the whole idea of this
infinite work of art, was contained in the first strokes of the Great
Artist’s pencil, and the ceaseless activity of Deity has been exercised
only in the eternal unfolding of the original conception.
LECTURE ON THE VASTNESS OF THE VISIBLE CREATION.
BY PROFESSOR STEPHEN ALEXANDER OF THE COLLEGE, OF NEW JERSEY.

My object on this occasion is, in itself, a very simpleone. I desire to
give some illustrations of the vastness of the visible creation, as made
known by modernastronomy. I say emphatically modern astronomy,
for some knowledge of this science is probably nearly as old as
the world itself. Almost from the first issuing of the great decree
that the sun and moon should serve for signs, and for seasons, and for
days, and for years, men have been careful to observe the heavens ;
for the Great Creator had so written that decree upon the heavens
themselves that men have not been slow to read the lesson thus visi-
bly inculcated. I would observe, moreover, that the objects of astro-
nomical research, with very trifling exceptions, are, of all others, with
which we have to do, the most unalterable. It is almost exactly true
that the very constellations which we now see were gazed upon by the
antedeluvian patriarchs; were in full view of Noah when the great
flood of waters was upon the earth; met the upturned eye of Abraham
when he was led out by Divine command to behold in them the sym-
bol of the promise; guided the ancient Greeks in navigation, and
still serve the modern astronomer as so many guide-points in the
heavens.

My purpose, as already indicated, is to illustrate, not to demonstrate.
To accomplish the latter in a single lecture would not be practicable ;
and certainly of astronomy, above all other sciences, it is true that it
may throw itself on its character for veracity when it requests that its
conclusions should be received as reliable. A science which can trace
a comet in its course, where no eye has had even a telescopic view of
it for three-quarters of a century, and bring it back by computation
correctly almost to a day, or which can predict an eclipse a century
hence as readily as one that will occur this year, and to whose accu-
racy experience throughout bears such abundant testimony—such a
science may fearlessly throw itself on its character for veracity. Be-
fore I proceed, however, to elucidate the subject, let me call attention
for a moment to an old-fashioned problem, whose bearings upon the
subject will, I trust, be presently seen. I allude to the problem of the
price of a horse, in which a farthing was allowed for the first nail in his
shoes, two for the second, four for the third, and soon. There were
thirty-two nails in all, and yet, from the small beginning of a farthing,
owing to this doubling thirty-one times, the value of the horse was only
to be computed in millions of pounds. Now, with reference to the
subject of astronomy, we shall have occasion to see that, though com-
mencing with a comparatively moderate unit, we shall advance upon
a similar plan, but much more rapidly. ' Keeping, then, in view the
illustration already given, you will at once see how gigantic, after a
very few steps, must be the last result compared with the first. Our
first object to-night will be to gain some idea of the size of the earth
itself, on which we stand. ‘The half diameter of the earth is the
170 LECTURES.

measuring unit with which to compare the distance of the earth from
the sun, and thus obtain a new unit with which afterwards to compare
the distances of the other planets. To.give a just idea of the size of
the earth we will avail ourselves of the largest tangible measure at-
tainable, that is, the highest mountain on the earth’s surface. The
highest mountains are the Himalayas, their altitude being five and
a half miles. Now, we do not exaggerate when we say that, if we
could uncover the base of one of those mountains, it would cover four
times the original area of the District of Columbia, or the surface of
one of the ordinary counties of our States, rising above that surface
to the height of five and a half miles, about equal to the height of
Chimborazo added to that of the highest of the Alps. This shall be
our standard of comparison with regard to the magnitude of the earth.
Such a mountain is rather more than ;,;, of the earth’s diameter or
about 1, of its radius. In making the comparison, after the ordi-
nary mode, two difficulties present themselves. It is said that, if you —
represent the earth by a globe, the highest mountain on its sur-
face may be represented by a small grain of sand. You thus proceed
from the greater to the less, whereas, in nature, we must proceed from
the less to the greater. Besides, a grain of sand is too small to give
an adequate idea of the matter to be illustrated. To avoid this we
shall make use of a scale sufficiently large to present the mountain
distinctly, and shall proceed in the natural order from the less to the
greater. This diagram before me is thirty-nine feet six inches in
length, and is intended to represent two radii of the earth opening to
the extent of one degree. At the further end of it is a blue band,
representing the atmosphere, and immediately beneath which is a
small row of mountains. Their heights, on this scale, is a trifle less
than two-thirds of an inch, and their actual height, as compared with
the real half diameter of the earth, is as two-thirds of an inch com-
pared with thirty-nine and a half feet, and doubling the half diameter
we shall have the ratio of two-thirds of an inch to seventy-nine feet.
Below the row of mountains you have a dark blue band, representing
the ocean. Below that again a darker portion still, representing that
portion of the earth’s crust through which you must go to find a red
heat, and beyond that you have the red color continued until it passes
into whiteness; it indicates the depth at which we would probably
arrive at a white heat.

[It would be impossible, in a wood-cut, to do justice to the illustra-
tion here explained by the lecturer. The explanation itself will
doubtless be sufficient. |

The diameter of the earth is, then, a very large unit in comparison
with the height of the highest mountain. The circumference, of
course, is more than three times the diameter. If you should attempt
to walk around the earth at the rate of twenty miles a day, three
years and five months would be spent in completing the circuit; and if
you should fly around it at the rate at which the steam car travels, say
thirty miles an hour, you would accomplish its circuit in thirty-four and
a half days; but, if its circumference be great in comparison with ordi-
nary standards, its surface in comparison with that of a sphere of
ordinary size must be still more enormous. The illustrations, I would

THE VISIBLE CREATION. i71

remark, that I give you here, are most of them originally devised, and
the results in all cases verified by actual computation. We could not
pass over the surface of the earth and take a good look at the surface
at a more rapid rate than that of twenty square miles a day, and yet
this would occupy us a period of 27,090 years. To view that portion
of the earth which is inhabited, if we should estimate it at but one-
fourth of the whole, would, at the same rate of progress, require 6,750
years; or to view the habitable portion of the surface of the earth would
require, in the case of the same individual, provided he could live so
long, more than the time from the creation of man down to the present
day to walk. Ifthe surface of the earth be so large, its capacity, of
course, compared with an ordinary standard, will be found to be to it
in a still greater ratio. The largest tangible measure, as I have said,
is the largest mountain on the earth’s surface. Suppose such a moun-
tain to be regularly shaped, and to have a diameter of twenty miles at
the base, it would then contain 576 cubic or solid miles of material.
Make use of that huge body as the unit of measurement of the bulk of
the earth, and the bulk of the earth would contain it 450,000,000 of
times, and even more. How can we appreciate so large a number?
We find it even difficult to form an idea how large a number a mil-
lion is ; we may obtain some idea of the vastness of numbers, such as
those in question, by ascertaining the time required to count them.
Tf, then, you should count at the rate of two per second, continuing the
work for eight hours a day, twenty-one years and five months would be
spent in counting the number which expresses the bulk of the earth
in comparison with that of the mountain. Perhaps I do not exag-
gerate the matter when I say, that the most accurate idea of a bulk so
vast may be obtained by regarding the image which we frame to our-
selves when we attempt to form an idea of infinite space. As we
cannot grasp infinity this image must have a dim and misty outline;
but it may be that it approaches more nearly than anything else to
presenting an adequate idea of the actual size of the earth.

Having obtained some idea of the size of the earth let us proceed a step
further, not in the way of doubling, but much faster. In so doing we
next notice the distance of the earth from the moon, which is represented
here on a much smaller scale than that employed in our first figure.
The distance from the centre of the earth to the centre of the moon is
about sixty radii, or thirty diameters of the earth. The magnificent
appendage of Saturn compares very well in size with this, its diame-
ter being about twenty times that of the earth. We pass from this to
the diameter of the sun, which is about one hundred and twelve times
that of the earth, and, of course, the surface is: more than ten thou-
sand times the surface of the earth. The scale we have at first adopted
we should find to be inadequate to compare the earth with the sun.
No ordinary apartment could contain the necessary illustration. The
scale has therefore been reduced a thousand times, instead of being
that of a hundred miles to a foot. This diagram is constituted on a
scale of 100,000 miles to a foot. On it the earth has shrunk down to
jsp Of an inch in diameter. This, then, [pointing to the figure,] is
the relative size of the sun, 112 diameters of the earth being equal to
tbe diameter of the sun. The liveliest imagination, however exer-
172 LECTURES,

cised, can form no adequate idea of the size of this magnificent luminary
of the day. Its surface occupies an area greater than that of twice ten
thousand oceans, each larger than the Pacific. And this surface ig
tossed into waves of intense brilliancy, beneath which the Himalayas
would be buried and ‘‘ melt with fervent heat ;’’ and whether we
regard him as issuing from the chambers of the east, he commences
like a giant to run his course; or whether in unveiled meridian splen-
dor, he almost seems to pause a moment to gaze upon a world rejoicing
in his presence, or enwrapped in robes of surpassing magnificence he
sinks to rest at night; under any and all these points of view, he is
at once the fitting representative and chosen emblem of all that is
good and beautiful.

From the size of the sun we proceed, in the next place, to that of
the diameter of the earth’s orbit. But I would observe, in passing,
that the relative size of most of the planets is represented in this
diagram. ‘Thus, we have that of Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, &c. The moon is represented by a ball, the size of a pea, at

By 52. 3) tA. 5. 6.

Upper line—1. Mercury. 2. Venus. 3. Earth. 4. Mars. 5. Moon. 6. Jupiter.
Lower line—7. Saturn and the three largest of his satellites. 8. Uranus, with the two
large satellites. 9. Neptune, with his satellites.

the place to which I now point, almost touching the sun. That rep-
resents the comparative size of the moon, The distance from the
centre to the surface of the sun is one and two-thirds the distance of
the moon from the earth, which itself is thirty diameters of the earth.
THE VISIBLE CREATION. 173

The distance of the earth from the sun is about 12,000 diameters
of the earth, or, if we proceed in the other way, multiplying the
last unit, we shall find it to be 107 diameters of the sun, vast as is
that body in extent. To travel this distance at the rate of thirty
miles an hour, going on continually, would occupy three hundred
and sixty two years and seven months; and merely to count it at
at the rate already mentioned, that of two per second for eight
hours of every day, would fully occupy four and a half years;
and yet more than three times this distance the earth travels every
year. To turn around but once in a year requires but a very slow
angular motion. Imagine the hand of a dial-plate to turn around
only once in a year, how large the dial-plate must be in order that we
might see the motion at all; yet in completing its circuit the earth
travels at the rate of nineteen miles per second; or, while I de-
liberately say to you, it moves, we are borne nineteen miles. This
result cannot be in error by more than its two hundred and thirty-
second part. When nearest to the sun, which is about the last of
December, we travel about three-tenths of a mile per second faster
than this, and about the first of July three-tenths of a mile slower.
Even this excess of velocity is fearful. Who could think of being
conveyed, mechanically, over the surface of the earth at the rate of
three-tenths of a mile per second.

Weare now compelled again to reduce our scale, and, instead of one,
one hundred thousand miles to the foot, make use of one, two hundred
millions of miles to a foot; and thus the sun, though magnificent in
comparison with the earth, shrinks down and becomes no larger
than the head of a pin. The orbit of the earth is represented by a
white curve, to which the rod now points. Here we have the dis-
turbed regions of the smaller planets, and there we have portions of
that of Uranus and the most remote of the known planets, Neptune.
This long and complete curve is the orbit of Halley’s comet. The
distance of the earth from the sun being now taken as our unit, the
distance of Neptune will be thirty times that, or thirty times ninety-
five million miles. Of course, to travel it at thirty miles per day
continuously would occupy about ten thousand eight hundred and
seventy-five years. Five distances of the earth from the sun from
the place of Neptune would carry you to the end of the orbit of Hal-
ley’s comet. The distance from this, again, to the nearest star is, we
had almost said, a void of immense extent compared, with that
which we have already had todo. It is scarcely worth while to re-
gard miles at all in speaking of the distance of a star; the number
becomes so large that we cannot grasp it. We may, however, obtain
a speaking illustration of the enormous distance of the nearest of the
fixed stars by ascertaining what must represent it in comparison with
the small globe which I hold in my hand, which has a diameter of
three inches. We must despair any more of illustrating distances so
vast by any picture, however large. We are not about to deal in mag-
nificent oriental fiction, but with ascertained facts. Let this globe rep-
resent the earth; then one hundred and seventeen thousand five hun-
dred miles will represent the distance of the nearest fixed star.

It is useless, almost, to state how long it would take to count
174 LECTURES.

this distance—one hundred and seventeen thousand years would
thus be occupied; and, if you thought of travelling it at all, you
would find that it could not be accomplished in seventy-four mil-
lions of years. Having thus ascended where the nearest of the
fixed stars are, let us, in the next place, ascertain what they are—
whether planets or suns, or what? We all know with how much
facility we see a bright light, though it may be very small. A can-
dle or taper can be seen in foggy weather long before the building
containing it; and even in the case of reflected light, the merest
spicula of glass, how brightly it shines, and how readily it can be dis-
tinguished from the dark substances surrounding it. The light of a
star must be very intense, for even when highly magnified by a
telescope, so that its light is enfeebled, it yet shines brightly, though
appearing nearly asa mere point; and if the light of it is reflected
light why do we not see the body that illuminates the star? What
is that body? It cannot be the sun, because, even at the very moderate
distance of the planets, it becomes very feeble; if, then, we could
suppose the light coming from the stars to be reflected light, we
would be ata loss to discover the luminous body that shines upon
them. But it has been ascertained, by careful experiment, that the
light of the very brightest fixed star, Sirius or the Dog star, which,
if the night were clear, my audience might see as they passed out of
the lecture room—we say it has been ascertained that the actual light
emitted by this star, (with quite a probable allowance for distance,)
is full sixty-three times that of our sun; such is not always the
case, as some stars do not give quite as much light asthe sun. But
it is true, notwithstanding, that if many of the stars are not suns they
are more. It is unnecessary to contend about the name, for you must
either call them suns or invent a name which shall mean a larger
thing. When we make the statement that all the fixed stars are suns,
are we aware of the sublimity involved in that statement? I under-
took to show my audience, as well as I could, a short time ago, what
constituted a single sun; but it is also true that the tiny ray which
gladdens our eye, as shooting from some twinkling star, it trembles in
the casement; it is true that this is a miniature sunbeam, and the
faint and feeble glow of starlight, which sometimes, like a semi-
transparent veil, covers the fair face of nature is woven of the
scattered glory of thousands of suns. In the very fact that it is thus
but faint and feeble we have the most speaking illustration of their
awful distance; when we arrive at such a distance as this, it becomes
quite evident that such a unit as the earth’s distance from the sun is
altogether too small. The distance of the earth from the sun must be
taken some 500,000 times or more, in order to make a comparison, and
we must therefore resort to something that will give us an adequate
measuring unit. This may be found in the velocity of progression of
the light which comes from the stars themselves. According to two
different and independent results this velocity is about 192,000 miles
per second ; the distance of the earth from the sun will thus be repre-
sented by 84 minutes. It takes a very trifle more than that for
light to pass from the sun to the earth. The light comes from a
Centauri, the nearest of the fixed stars, in 34 years; from 61 in the
THE VISIBLE CREATION. 175

Swan in 93 years; from Arcturus in 26 years; from the Polar star in
48 years; and from Capella in 702 years; or Capella, the beautiful star
in the Goat, is seen by the light which left it nearly three-quarters of
a century ago, and has been travelling at the rate of one hundred
and ninety-two thousand miles per second during the whole of that
interval.

- Let us next notice the combinations of the stars. It is a very
curious circumstance, to say the least, that wherever we direct the
telescope to the heavens we shall find the stars combined in pairs;
and so frequently does this combination occur that we cannot regard
it as the result of accidental position. It is true that when two stars
are almost one behind the other they might not appear to be very far
apart, though really at very different distances from us; but by careful
measurement, in some cases, it has been ascertained that they are
really, as well as apparently, near. In fact they are connected to-
gether, and revolve around each other, as is the case with the earth
and sun. We have here represented two or three such double stars.
There is one in Gemini; also one in Scorpio, one of the two stars
being blue and the other yellow. The blue star does not show well,
unless in a very good light; but the representation is therefore the
more true to nature, the sky being itself so blue that it is more diffi-
cult to see such astar. Red and yellow stars are also of frequent
occurrence; and in the case of the beautiful star in Andromeda, the
two individual stars are, the one rose color, and the other green; the
colors of the double stars are complementary, or such as, when com-
bined together, form a white light, the star appearing white and
single to the bare eye. Wecan perceive something extremely elegant
in the arrangement if planets should circulate around these red or
green suns; then a red or a green light would be seen as long as it
alone were visible ; but a white light, when both suns were above the
horizon, poetic fancy never sketched anything more sublimely elegant
than this combination of tinted suns, these parti-colored gems which
sparkle in the diadem which surrounds the dark brow of night.

We come now toa more extensive combination of stars. We cannot
look at the sky with any sort of attention even once without perceiving
an amazing collection of the stars in the direction of one single great
band or girdle. This constitutes what is called the milky way.
Throughout one half of its circuit it is divided into at least two parts.
Most of the stars in heaven are situated in one part, and in the other
portions of the sky the stars are comparatively sparse. The attempt
was made by Sir William Herschel to ascertain the relative distance
of the fixed stars before the actual distance of any of them was deter-
mined. Some idea may be formed of this by ascertaining how many
more can be seen in one direction rather than another, as we might
judge of the extent of a crowded audience in one direction rather than
in another, by ascertaining how many could be seen in the one and in
the other direction. A better method of sounding the heavens, as it was
called, consisted in using successively telescopes of greater and greater
space-penetrating power. The space-penetrating power may be ascer-
tained by comparing the brightness of the beam of light emitted by a
telescope with that seen by the bare eye. The science of optics will
readily enable us to ascertain that, Then, if we bear in mind that light
176 LECTURES.

at twice the distance is four times as feeble, &c., it will be seen that a
telescope which would increase the intensity of light to four times that of
the light seen by the bare eye might enable us to see twice as far, &c.,

By making use of a telescope of a greater and greater space-pene-
trating power Sir William Herschel, in investigating portions of the
milky way, continued to see new stars up to the twenty-eighth
order of distance. The borders of the milky way are supposed to
be at the nine hundredth order of distance. If this be so the
time of the arrival of light from the borders of the milky way must

not be measured by a single year, but by centuries; in fact, so far as —

we may rely on the conclusions of Dr. Madler, the distance of the }

centre of this our group from us, as thus estimated, is 537 years. He
concludes, moreover, that the stars in the milky way and our sun ~

with them revolve at the rate of once in about eighteen million years,

Whether we regard this as accurately ascertained or not, very certain ©

it is that the sun and ell planets are moving in the regions of space,

The researches of Herschel, Argelander, Struve, and others, have —
all contributed to point out very accurately a single spot in the heav- —

ens, towards which we are incessantly travelling by a motion very —
slow when we consider the magnitude of the orbit, the distance trav- —

}

elled being about four-fifths of the diameter of the earth’s orbit every —

year. When we scrutinize the outskirts of the milky way and at-

tempt to see beyond it, we find what seems to be an entirely detached —

combination of stars. If what we see in them be stars only about the
size of those in the milky way we might readily conclude that they
were at no greater distance ; but it may be that what are apparently
single stars are themselves combinations. These groups are called
clusters. This is the representation ofa coarse cluster. We find others
much more closely arranged, as in the figure, where they are repre-
sented by a white, powdery substance. The stars near the centre are
not to be counted by hundreds. When clusters become so remote that
you cannot make out the individual stars you may still discern cius-
ters of a granular shape and appearance in their structure ; or that
they are made up of a ‘‘star dust,’’? an expression sublime from
its very simplicity. In this quasi crystalline mass the molecules are
double stars, the ultimate particles are suns, and the atoms, if any,
are planets. If the cluster be a globular one it may also be true that
all the stars, the outer ones only excepted, are revolving around the
centre in the self-sametime. Beyond these still are the nebule, some
of which the most powerful telescopes have failed to resolve; that is,
have failed to show that they are made up of stars. In other cases
they are found to be made up of stars, and resolvable. We cannot
positively assert that there is no cloudy-looking substance existing
in the heavens which is not made up in this way; some appear-
ances, surrounding stars, cannot as yet be resolved. Other whole
nebulz cannot yet be resolved by telescopes of large space-penetrating
power. Some idea of the distance of a nebula not resolvable may be
obtained by ascertaining the space-penetrating power which will cause
that nebula to present the appearance put on by another before power
sufficient was applied to resolve it; and thus, comparing the powers
employed in the two cases, we arrive at a distance so great as that a
comparison by means of the velocity of light itself becomes almost
THE VISIBLE CREATION. 177

inadequate. Even light, (which could we thus curb its motion would
girdle the earth inatwinkling,) which rebounds to us from the moon
in a second and a quarter, and which, springing from its home in the
sun, visits the most distant of the known planets and returns in
less than a day, even this swiftly flying messenger, borne upon the
very wings of the morning, can only reach us from those remote
bounds after the lapse of centuries. Admitting all this to be true,
then, although an accurate result is here no longer possible, there is
a reasonable probability that the sublime idea presented by Huygens
is itself a fact; that some of these bodies are so remote that the light
by which we see them must have left them before the creation of man.
There is something almost awful in the thought of our having arrived
at a reasonable probability that we see these objects as they were be-
fore the race of man had being ; to behold, as it were, the record of
eternity past, unrolled to be read in time. We are compelled to view
them from such a distance looking towards them; but in imagination
we may place ourselves at the other extremity of the line thus defined,
then the light from the earth and solar system would have been as
long in reaching that position as the light from the other way has been
in reaching us; and if we had the optical power and could look down
upon the earth, then the mastodon, which is now a mere fossil in our
cabinets, would be seen as the living, moving, breathing mastodon.
The fact, in more general terms, is this: There are portions of the uni-
verse through which the visible record of very much that is great
and awful that has been transacted here is still travelling through the
regions of space, and might be discerned by a being provided with
sufficient optical power. I think it necessary to notice but one thing
more. ‘The fixed stars are not merely like the sun in the intensity of
their light, but, it would also seem, in revolving around their axes.
We ascertain that the sun revolves around its axis by noticing the
spots on its surface. When there are many spots towards us the light
of the sun must be enfeebled, sometimes even sensibly so. There are
variable stars that periodically become dim and then again resume
their former brightness. The natural solution of this fact is that these
stars are like the sun, not merely in their light, but alsoin the way in
which that light is produced. Perhaps upon their surface there are
spots which, when turned towards us, cause their light to become dim,
and when away from us there is an increase of brightness. There are
stars also which may be called temporary stars; for after appearing
in the heavens a brief period they become seemingly very small or they
disappear altogether, a fact which can hardly well be accounted for,
except by the supposition that there has been a real physical change
in the body itself. In undergoing these changes, changes in color have
also been manifest, so great that we may suppose that there has been
a combustion or partial destruction of the body in question. The star
seen by Anshelmin 1670 was of the third magnitude, passed through
great fluctuations of light for two years, and then became either ex-
cessively small or quite invisible. There are, moreover, lost stars,
whose places are now vacant, though some cf them have been recently
observed. When we look at these strange fluctuations we may sup-
pose that something like combustion has taken place, or that, for the

12 s
178 LECTURES.

time being, its power of giving light has been suspended. In reviewing
these facts it appears difficult not to conclude that here was a world
whose destiny was, for the time being, completed, and the fitful glare
of whose gorgeous funeral pile shooting across almost the vast distance
which separates us came with undiminished velocity to tell us the tale
that once it was. However this may be, we certainly know that He
who, ‘‘by His strength, setteth fast the mountains, being girded
with power,’’ hath also ‘‘ of old laid the foundation of the earth, and
the heavens are the work of his hands. They shall perish but He shall
endure; yea, all of them shall wax old, like a garment, and as a ves-
ture shall He change them, and they shall be changed; but He is the
same and his years shall have no end;’’ for ‘‘ He inhabiteth eternity
and the praises thereof.’’ 3
METEOROLOGY.

COMMUNICATION FROM A. FENDLER.

Cotonta Tovar, VENEZUELA, SoutH AMERICA,
August 5, 1856.

Dear Sir: I sailed from Philadelphia on the 5th of May, and
arrived at Laguayra three weeks after. Colonia Tovar I reached on
the 7th of June, and commenced my meteorological observations on
the 10th. The barometer and the dry and wet bulb thermometers,
which by your kindness I received from Mr. Green, I have brought
home safe and in good order.

Accompanying this I send you two registers of meteorological ob-
servations of the month of June and July, 1856; and here I have to
make the following remarks :

1, As lam very much interested in the results of the observations,
I need not say that I pay the most particular care and attention to
the condition of the instruments, as well as to the nicety in taking
observations and in noting them down.

2. The column under the head of ‘‘ Barometer height reduced to
freezing point,’ I could not fill up for want of the necessary tables.

3. By comparing my old thermometer, which is one of the more
common kinds, marked ‘‘T. Barry, London,’’ with the Smithsonian
dry bulb thermometer, I found that the former is from one and a half
to five degrees too high; so that I was obliged to use the dry bulb of
the psychrometer also as thermometer in the open air. The wet bulb
was therefore exposed to the open air also. According to the first
principles of evaporation it is, however, evident that the more rapid
the motion of air is which touches the wet bulb the more energetic
will be the evaporation of the water contained in the wet linen, and
the lower will the mercury sink. This I found to be confirmed by
every breeze, and even the lightest breath of wind that happened to
strike the wet bulb at the time I took observations. I therefore regard
all observations with the psychrometer, that are not taken in a calm
atmosphere, or in an atmosphere the velocity of which at the time of
observation is known, as of little value.

As | had no other standard thermometer besides the dry and wet
bulb, I can give the psychrometrical observations only, with the re-
mark that they are worth just as much as all other such observations
made in the open air without regard to the currents of the atmo-
sphere. In future I shall try to shelter the wet bulb against the
influence of wind at the time of observation.

4. As I have norain gage I can only put down the time of be-
ginning and ending of rain.

5. With regard to clouds I may say, that the higher clouds are
mostly hidden from view by the masses of lower clouds, so that the
course of the former can very seldom be ascertained in the rainy
season, and, wheu seen, there are several strata, one above the other.
Instead of the higher clouds, I have carefully noticed and put down
180 METEOROLOGY.

the course of the lower clouds, under the head of ‘‘ winds.’’ The
motion of these lower clouds may justly be said to indicate the real
course of the wind; for in such a mountainous country as this the
atmosphere at the bottom of the kettle-shaped valley of the colony,
is set in motion by a great number of local causes, and this motion
is changed and modified by the many ravines and watercourses, and
by every slope of the irregularly shaped mountains. The colony is
surrounded by mountain ridges, crowned by several peaks. These
barriers open only in one direction, towards the east, where they form
an outlet for the river Tuy, which has its sources in the neighboring
fields and adjacent forests. In such a region as this it is next to im-
possible to note, even in one narrow district, all the different little
breaths and jerks of wind, which frequently change every moment.

As to the motion ot the lower clouds, they frequently showed a
velocity which I estimated at about 7 miles per hour ; and as there is
no number corresponding to this velocity in the tables, I introduced
the number ‘‘ 23,’’ which means 7 miles per hour.

Fog is a considerable item in this region in the rainy season, and I
have accordingly noted it down under the head of ‘‘ kinds of clouds.”’

Thunder and lightning are very rare here, and when they occur
they make so little show that, with regard to force, they may be com-
pared to those of the United States as the zephyr to a strong gale.
In the register I have noted them down in the margin.

Tornadoes I have never seen in the colony, not even a gale of wind,
within the two and a half years that I have been living here. Hail
storms are unknown in this part of the country.

Of the 48 observations recorded in July, at 7 a. m. and 2 p. m., on
the course of the lower clouds, 10 are E., 15 E.SE., and 15 8EH., which
shows the prevailing winds to be between HE. and SH. Their mean
velocity is a fraction over four miles per hour.

Of rain, fog, mist, and clouds, we had more than a sufficiency, the
mean cloudiness being 6.4.

The weather has been so unfavorable since my return from the
States that I have not yet measured any of the neighboring heights
and passes by barometer.

The thermometer in the open air shows a mean temperature of 58.3
for the month of July, a rather low temperature for the height of
6,500 feet in latitude 10° 26’. The minimum of the month was 54°,
the maximum 69°,

I also inclose the half-hourly and hourly barometrical observations
for seven days, made in order to ascertain the hour of maximum and
minimum of the daily periodical variations. And here I found that
these variations within the tropics, at least at the colony, are not so
regular as we sometimes find stated in books. As, for instance, the
following: ‘‘Such is the regularity with which these motions are
effected within the equatorial zones that they might there serve to
give the true time of the day.’’—(Nicollet, Essay on Meteor. Observ.,
page 7.) For we find maximums at 9} a.m., 10, 11, 12 m., and
minimums at 4 p. m., 43, 5, 54, 6, 64, 7, and all this within the short
period of sevendays. This irregularity is the more remarkable, as the
colony is a place where none of the extremes of heat and cold, or of
METEOROLOGY. 181

gales, hurricanes, and thunder storms are felt, that could disturb the
equilibrium of the atmosphere.

Besides the two registers and the hourly observations, I have copied
for you and inclosed the thermometrical observations for 12 months in
1854 and 1855. These have been taken with my old thermometer,
which proves to be from 13 to 5 degrees too high, as compared with
the Smithsonian thermometer. Although this would make the mean
temperature of the year about 3 degrees too high, we are still enabled
to make some comparisons between the different months, which show
that from August the mean monthly temperature is gradually sinking
till January, which is the coldest month. After January it rises
again till May, and then sinks till July. This seems to indicate that
the rising and falling of the mean temperature keeps equal pace with
the declination of the sun. If we now compare the means of the dif-
ferent hours of the day of each month, we find that the highest tem-
perature of the day is not at 2 or 3 p. m., as in the United States, but
at 12 o’clock at noon, and that the temperature at 3p. m. is but a
fraction greater than that at 9 a.m. In five months of the year it is
nearly or quite the same with that at 9a. m., viz: from November
till March, inclusive; during the other part of the year, from May
till September, inclusive, the mean temperature is higher at 3 p. m.
than at 9 a. m., with the exception of October and April, where the
temperature at 3 is even lower than that at 9; and these are the two
months which follow immediately after the equinoxes. Another curi-
ous fact is the sudden rise of mean temperature from July to August.
In Santa Fé de Bogota, in 4° 35’ north latitude, July is said to be
even the coldest month of the year.

Some other facts could, no doubt, be drawn from this register by com-
parison, if its observations were founded upon a standard thermometer.

On the last page of this register of Colonia Tovar you will find
some observations, taken with the same thermometer, of ‘‘ Barry,”’
during my stay at Chagres, on the Isthmus of Panama.

During my absence from the colony last winter some persons here,
who can be relied upon, have seen white frost one morning. This is
of extremely rare occurrence, but anyhow very remarkable for the
latitude of 10° 26’, even at the height of 6,500 feet.

The characteristics of this region are its clouded sky, its equable tem-
perature, and its great amount of moisture. It is the “happy
region of the ferns,’’ where these interesting plants find their most
suitable climate and grow in the greatest profusion. Here it is where
the stately tree-fern sometimes is seen to reach a height of 4/ feet.

The produce most profitable to raise in the colony are potatoes, rye,
and oats. The apple tree grows side by side with the banana. The
strawberry is found in the greatest abundance, spontaneously grow-
ing about the fields. Indian corn does not come to maturity here,
while I have seen it raised and matured in Santa Fé, New Mexico,
which is at least 700 feet higher than the colony, and besides this is
near 36° north latitude. But in New Mexico they havea cloudless sky
nearly the whole year round and an extremely dry atmosphere, while
the colonists of Tovar are not much molested from the beginning of
May to the beginning of January by the rays of the sun.
182 ' METEOROLOGY.

The valley in which Colonia Tovar is situated was, so late as De-
cember, 1841, a perfect wilderness, covered with primitive forest,
Not even the existence of this valley was known fifteen years ago,
neither to the government nor to its owner. although it is only thirty-
five miles west of Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, and in a straight
line cannot be more than twelve miles from the sea. And when an
attempt was made to explore this region not even a guide could be
found for the small exploring party of fifteen men, headed by Colonel
Codazzi, a skillful officer and compiler of the new map of Venezuela.
When this party at last succeeded in crossing this region and reaching
the sca-shore, they thought they had achieved a most extraordinary
thing, (to cross a distance of twelve miles in six days;) and after they
had returned to their homes none of them had a desire to do the feat
over again. This was a party of natives. And when, at a later
period, after the establishment of the colony, another skillful engi-
neer found, with a party of colonists, his way to the opposite port of
the sea-shore, the party did not venture to go back the same route, but
rather chose the way by sea to Laguayra, from there to Caracas and
back to the colony, a very circuitous route certainly. Such is the
nature of this mountain region, with its precipices, waterfalls, deep
ravines, and its dense, almost impenetrable primeval forests.

In collecting botanical specimens, I have penetrated, without a com-
panion, the wilderness around in different directions, also that on the
other side of the principal mountain range towards the sea, and can
testify to the difficulties and hardships which are met with in. exploring
such a country. On excursions of this kind the most needful thing
besides a compass is a short sabre, called ‘‘machetta,’’ which I have
to use continually in cutting through the lianos, the erect and climbing
canes, the under shrub, which isall matted and intermingled in a
thousand different ways into a dense mass of vegetation.

In these woods, where the rays of the sun never touch the ground,
there it is where moisture and a cool temperature reign forever. The
trunk of every tree and its branches are covered with Ferns, Lyco-
podiaceze, Losses, Hepaticee, Lichens, Orchids, Bromeliads, Aracez
and besides Piperacee with many exogenous plants too numerous to
mention.

The soil in these forests is one entire mass of slender rootlets most
completely intermingled and interwoven, more than a foot in thickness,
the interstices filled with a brown but imperfectly decomposed vege-
table mould, which is kept in its place by the network of the rootlets.
This stratum is covered with mosses and remnants of leaves, so that
on the mountain ridges not only the ground, but also the trunks and
branches of the trees, act likea thick layer of sponges in retaining the
water that either pours down in form of rain or settles more slowly
in the form of mist and clouds. This water is allowed to trickle and
sink down but very gradually, and is, therefore, a never-failing source
from which are constantly fed the many little rivulets that hurry down
the steep declivities into their common receptacle, the narrow chasm
of the river Tuy, which, in one continued row of cascades, rushes
thundering down SE. and 8. until after a run of twenty miles, turn-
ing suddenly to the east, it finds a more level country.
METEOROLOGY. 183

In the depth of such a mass of vegetation, when man is by himself,
a feeling of loneliness takes the ascendency over every other emotion ;
no animal is seen, and but seldom the voice of a bird heard. While
on the sea-side of the mountains I was only made twice aware of the
vicinity of a bird in two days. In the neighborhood of farms and
habitations of men a greater variety of birds are seen and heard, and
sometimes the grunting or howling of monkeys and the deafening
cry of parrots.

The dry season commences here generally soon after New Year’s
day and lasts till the end of April. The remainder of the year is
taken up by the rainy season. This is generally so, for there are many
exceptions, and our notions about the great regularity and sharply
defined seasons of the tropics, which we have received from books, are
sometimes materially upset and corrected by experience. When I first
came to the colony, in March, 1854, we had a dry season in its usual
way. ‘The rainy season then commenced on the 23d of April, but it
did not end with the latter part of December, asis usually the case;
it lasted till the end of January, and commenced again with the first
of March, and then kept uniformly on till the end of December, 1855.
The dry season was, therefore, only of one month’s duration instead of
four. The last dry season has been, on the contrary, unusually long,
and lasted till the latter part of May.

I have often thought that the climate of North America may stand
in some kind of relation to the climate of this country. It was on
the 24th of December, 1853, whenI left New York, to sail for La-
guayra. We were hardly out of sight of land when a furious NW.
gale, a real hurricane, (which is still in fresh remembrance with some
of the captains I have lately seen,) during a period of three days threat-
ened our destruction. After my arrival in Venezuela I was told that
about Christmas, 1853, one of the most fearful gales from the north was
felt at Laguayra.* Another question is, whether the late remarkably
dry and cold winter of the United States and the unusually long dry
season of Venezuela, as also the remarkable appearance of white frost
in the colony, are not connected in some way or other.

As to the trade winds, I found on my trip from Philadelphia to
Laguayra that within the tropics we had no K.NE. wind, which is
thought to be the regular trade winds of those regions. After cross-
ing latitude 234°, in longitude 683°, we were becalmed for one day, and
soon after got a fresh breeze from the south, which we kept all the
way to longitude 63°. By tacking we got to latitude 22°, longitude
634°. From thence we had the wind all the time from 8.SE , which
we kept to latitude 114° the day before we reached Laguayra. Capt.
Wilkins, who has been in this southern trade for eighteen years,
assured me that within the last eight years he never could depend
much upon the trade winds. He finds that between latitude 23° and
18° the south wind frequently keeps on blowing very brisk for eight
days in succession.

On the way from the colony to Caracas, along the high ridge of
the principal mountain chain, which stretches E. and W., parallel

* See page 188.
184 METEOROLOGY.

with the coast, at an elevation of from 7,000 to 8,000 feet, we travel
about six miles over a region bare of forest, where we nearly at all
times find a very strong breeze from the south, rushing up the declivity
and over the ridge, hurries off to the north towards the ocean. The
ocean can be plainly seen from this elevation. That this great current
of air does not sink down along the northern slope, but, on the con-
trary, 18s somewhat projected upwards by the shape of the mountain,
can be seen by the course of the condensed vapors which, in the form
of fog and mist, are driven along. May not this current of air sink
gradually lower and lower until it reaches about latitude 18°, where
it strikes the sea? I have found this south wind at sea always much
colder than any of the other winds in these latitudes.

I wish I was in possession of some good work on the winds and the
currents of the ocean.

Vegetation at the colony is uninterrupted throughout the whole
year, except in a small class of plants which cannot thrive without a
great deal of moisture. Even in the dry season, when the lower re-
gions are parched up with heat, if there is any moisture at all in
the atmosphere capable of being condensed, the mountainous districts,
especially those covered with forests, are sure to get some of it. Trees
here are evergreens; they keep their branches and twigs clothed with
leaves until death. Day after day, and month after month, the sur-
rounding forest presents the same unchanged view in its deep green
garment. Single leaves fall here and there one by one; and new
leaves appear as slowly and gradually as the old ones die away—un-
noticed and unobserved. The pleasing and hope-inspiring spectacle
of returning spring, in the sudden appearance of the new and tender
foliage, as seen in the temperate regions, is here unknown.

Cotonra Tovar, January 8, 1857.

Dear Sir: Under date of August 5 I sent you a letter and some
registers of meteorological observations up to the 31st of July, which,
I hope, you will have received long before this.

Inclosed in a separate envelope I send you now four meteorological
registers for the months of August, September, October and Novem-
ber. I would have sent one for December also, but I have no more
blanks. |

Besides these registers, I have inclosed diagrams* on four separate
sheets, one table of half-hourly barometrical observations, and one
about the course of the clouds.

The barometrical observations in the registers have their full value
only up to October 30, at 2 p.m; for when I looked at the height
of the mercury one hour afterwards I found it more than one inch
below its usual level. ‘This was so extraordinary that I expected
something wrong with the instrument. As soon as I touched it the
whole column of mercury sank rapidly down. In unscrewing the
brass cup which contains the little leather bag I found the former
half filled with mercury. On the surface of the bag, a little below

* The diagrams and curves could not be given in this report,
METEOROLOGY. 185

where it is tied and where it was in contact with the surrounding
brass tube, I found a spot of one-eighth of an inch diameter, as if cor-
roded by some kind of acid In the centre of this spot was a hole one-
sixteenth inch diameter. The corroded rim around the hole was very
smooth and viscid, similar to partly dissolved india rubber. After
sewing up the whole and giving it a coat of glue, to prevent the mer-
cury from leaking out, I filled the glass tube again as cautiously as pos-
sible, to prevent the formation of air bubbles. In this I succeeded pretty
well, and, with the exception of one minute portion of air, which
escaped into the vacuum, the latter seemed to be complete. The
mercury then showed but a small difference (;2,; to 73, parts of an
inch lower) compared with its former state. Hoping to succeed still
better the second time, I tried my hand once more at it, but did not
succeed so well this time, as some moisture had settled in the glass
tube. The mercury is now at least one-tenth of an inch lower than it
ought to be.

The barometrical observations made with this instrument since the
Ist November, 1856, can, of course, not be considered as normal, and
can be used only with a view to institute comparisons among them-
selves.

I feel this defect the more acutely as I hoped to measure a number
of mountains and other localities, and to complete a twelve months’
register, to find out the mean height of the barometrical column for
the different months of the year. Up to the Ist November I found
the mean height greatest in July. Hitherto I have measured only
the pass over the mountains on the road from the colony to Victoria.
On this spot the barometer was 23.334 at 7h. 30m. a. m., September 9,
with the thermometer at 61°.

In the diagrams on sheet No. 1,1 have laid down, in a graphical
manner, the hourly and half-hourly rise and fall of the barometer from
6 a. m., till 9 p.m. for 12 days. We can see here, at once, the greater
amplitude of the daily periodical variations in October compared with
that of June; also that the hours of maximum of the different days
in October are not far apart from each other and near to 10$ a.m.,
and ithe hours of minimum not far from 4 p. m.; while, on the con-
trary, in June, the hours of maximum, as well as those of minimum,
are much more scattered, and therefore not so regular.

On sheet No. 2 are the half-hourly observations laid down for 24
hours, from 4 a. m., October 7, till 4 a.m. next day. Here we
observe that, in the morning, the maximum, as well as the minimum,
is somewhat higher than the maximum and the minimum in the
evening. This seems to be a general rule with all the daily periodi-
cal variations.

On sheet No. 3 the daily mean barometer heights from June 10 to
October 30 are put down and connected by straight lines to denote the
course of the barometer from day to day throughout the several
months. A kind of periodical rising and sinking is observable here,
alternately taking place in periods of 4 or 5 days, at least for June,
July, August and September.

On sheet No. 4 is to be found a comparison of the mean monthly
barometer heights of Colonia Tovar with those of St. Louis, Mo.,
186 METEOROLOGY.

made by Dr. G. Englemann in 1851, which shows the remarkably
small monthly variation in the colony against the extreme range of
atmospheric pressure at St. Louis.

In all these illustrations the barometer height has not been reduced
to the freezing point for want of the necessary tables; but, as the
difference of temperature connected with these observations does not
range much over 8 degrees F., the results may be considered not far
from their true value.

Table No. 5 shows that the most prevailing currents of air at an
elevation of about 7,000 or 8,000 feet above the level of the sea, in the
months of June, July, August, September and October, are here from
K., E.SE., SE., 8.SE.,and 8., but especially from SE.

Table No. 6 contains half-hourly barometrical observations for 17
days, taken down at three different periods of the year. From this
and from sheet No 1 we see that the amplitude of the daily periodical
variations is not a constant quantity in one and the same place, but
changes with the different periods of the year ; as also does the hour of
maximums and minimums. To find out, by continued observation,
the mean amount of amplitude and the precise time of the maximums
and minimums for each month of the year seemed to me desiderata of
much interest to meteorology.

With a view to investigate this matter I have made observations
accordingly. The first set I made from 18th to 24th June; the
second, from Ist to Tth October; the third, from 10th to 12th Novem-
ber, and the fourth, from 22d to 28th December. These observations
give the mean amplitude for the latter part of June 0.058; for the
first part of October, 0.079 ; for November, 0.060, and for the end of
December, 0.043.

By a peculiar view of the cause of periodical variations, and by the
aid of an artificial globe, I had calculated as early as last September
that the amplitude at Colonia Tovar ought to be greatest about the
16th May and 26th September, and least on the 21st January. The
above-mentioned numbers of amplitude for October, November, and
December coincide with my calculations so far, and it remains to be
seen how they will do for the remaining portion of the year.

With regard to temperature I will only say that the mean of the
three months of June, July, and August, (that is, of the meteorological
summer,) is 589; the mean of September, October, and November
(the meteorological autumn) is 58.9, or exactly the same. The mean
temperature of December is 56.6. During 204 days (from June 10
to December 31) the sky was only once free of clouds at 2 p. m., 18
times free at 7 a. m., and 41 times at 9 p. m. Of these 204 days 143
were rainy days.

On the 5th of January I made a botanical excursion to one of the
highest mountains of this region, about twelve miles to the east of
the colony. The mountain, according to my estimation, may be about
7,800 feet above the level of the sea, and is a kind of central point or
knot, from which several rivers, flowing in different directions, take
their origin. This mountain is covered by a dense forest, with the
exception of a level spot of about half a mile in length and a quarter
METEOROLOGY. 187

of a mile in width, which forms a kind of shallow basin, only spar-
ingly covered by a thin coat of short grass and other small plants.
These plants I found the next morning at six o’clock white and
stiffened with heavy hoar frost, which augmented and lasted till the
rays of the sun fell upon it. The stiffened leaves of the herbs broke
under the least pressure, like thin layers of ice. The thermometer
was 37° at 62. 30m. From all the information I could gather, hoar
frost seems to be common in this spot throughout the months of Janu-
ary and February. The wind blew during the night from northeast,
and was very piercing.

Notwithstanding this low temperature, the forests of the neighbor-
ing heights surrounding this basin are clothed in perpetual green,
and the stately wax palm, with its straight and polished trunk of
70 or 80 feet, (by actual measurement,) rears, uninjured, its slender
form and its leaf adorned head high above all other trees.

In this excursion I had also an opportunity to form some idea of the
vast extent of destruction which was carried into the mountain forest
Jast February by a lucifer match and a thoughtless boy. Over whole
tracts of this primeval forest the trees lie dead one over the other, as
if uprooted by a whirlwind, scarcely showing any marks of fire on
their trunks. J was struck more than ever with the easy manner in
which fire can destroy these dense and humid forests, which, by their
shade, preserve a cool and moist atmosphere, and thereby cause the
vapors of the adjacent strata of air to condense into clouds, that rest
upon them, with little intermission, during nine months in the year.
In these high regions the temperature is so low and equable that the
vegetable matter which is gathered on the ground between the trees
is decomposed very incompletely and very slowly. It forms a stratum
of loose half-decomposed matter, in some places two to three feet thick,
which, in the rainy season, like an immense layer of sponge filled
with water, feeds and supplies the rivulets and rivers gradually. In
the midst of the dry season this layer becomes sometimes dry enough
to burn, when kindled, with but little flame, and more like tinder,
spreading in all directions.

In this way the fire extends until met by a river or a road, or some
- other obstacle. The sub-soil which underlies the spongy stratum on
these mountains is also very shallow and resting on hard rocks. The
roots of the trees. therefore, do not go down very deep, but extend
more in a horizontal direction. When the spongy layer, with the
smaller roots, are burnt, the trees Jose their hold eatirely and fall, one
over the other, in all directions. They die less from being burnt than
from being uprooted. Many different kinds of tall reeds soon take
the place of the trees. In a few years these reeds exclude everything
else. The fertile mould that may perhaps have escaped destruction
by fire is by and by carried down the declivities by the frequent rains.
The region, no longer shaded by high trees, becomes dry. Subse-
quent conflagrations of adjacent savannahs, which are intentionally
set on fire to procure a new growth of young grass, take hold of the
reeds of the ruined forest, until, by the repeated attacks of these fires,
the roots of the reeds can stand it no longer, and the smaller grasses,
interspersed with a few other plants, take their places.
188 METEOROLOGY.

On the road from the colony to Caracas we pass through a region
in which this process is going on; the reeds giving gradually way to
the smaller grasses. Here the oreat number of half burnt yet stand-
ing trunks of the wax palm tell plainly enough that there existed not
long ago a dense and humid forest, in which they luxuriated in all
their beauty, for these palms are never found, in their natural state,
growing in any other but humid forests. Here they stand isolated
in the midst of reeds. Most of them have died already, but many
linger yet in a dying condition, until their last green leaf has turned
brown, and then they stand like tall and slender pillars, the mournful
remnants of a once stately forest.

This is the same extensive region of which I spoke in my first letter,
where a strong southern breeze, sometimes amounting to a gale,
sweeps constantly over the mountain ridge towards the sea. I have
traversed this region since at four different times, in the months of
August and September, and found every time the same southern wind
blowing there, only somewhat more violent.

Before closing this letter I wish to add to the statement made in
my first letter* about the gale of December 24, 1853, that my inform-
ant here, in saying that the gale was felt at Laguayra, forgot to men-
tion that it was felt only in the unprecedented agitation of the ocean,
but not in the atmosphere. This agitation of the sea is observed every
time a violent gale from the north has been blowing in the higher
latitudes, not the least breeze from the north being felt at the same
time at Laguayra, although it is an open roadstead, not in the least
sheltered against the north winds. This agitation of the sea, when
the air was perfectly calm, I have seen myself several times at La-
guayra; but at the time above mentioned the sea was so unusually
high that long, enormous, foam-crested waves rolled up to the very
parapet of the custom-house, a phenomenon scarccly ever seen before.

During my stay in Victoria, a town twenty miles south of the
colony, situate in a valley about 1,700 feet above the level of the sea,
I made the following observations as to the temperature of that place:

Dacabhere: sr apeedeseerske 21 | 22 | 93 | 24 | 95 | 96 | 97 | 98 | 29
SRM ee eee es 70: | 69 | BF =| eget ger Es Fie Mileage age
Dip: raise sh «feces ot ate dhoee SG!) $775 15 81i | 83 84 84 84
ESR EAP, sie 74. | 72 | 7a Nn NN HR Gl ee

The dry season has already set in, and my time is so much taken up
by botanical labors, on which my sustenance depends, that lam un-
able to give at present a more full and extended account of the climate
and other atmospherical phenomena of this region.

* See page 183.
189

METEOROLOGY.

0'bS
See =
€°%s 8°ec o'Is
S*0@9T CELI G"1RST
Ti 09 ae
eg LS 1g
8b eg Sb
1g cg ray
cg 6¢ ce
ce 09 tps
&g LS Ir
8b g¢ 0S
es 09 0g
0¢ 19 ¥S
8r 8s Ib
«sg LS 1g
0s 9g SP
oF 8¢ 6h
6P 8s 8b
es 8g 1¢
vs 19 1g
1g 6S ws
Gg 6¢ 6P
OF 19 Gs
9S 6S 9S
og e9 9¢
9g 19 Rg
a¢ 09 es
8P 9¢ Lb
Gg gg 9F
9s 6S 9S
gg 19 cs
6g 19 QP
&S LS vs
2g gS ec
“Nd G "Wd G ear

*qINg 19.AK

‘QATIDAJOP JaJaUuIoAe § MOT 00} 00S" «

9°95

Leveeseseeeee! gre Bee 9°19 ee9 SRB Sa cal Socrates cee ote
vevevenseeees|. Qogry 1991 FIGL got FR NU IRE cmt Mone anwaaminee:

) {| oss c¢ ¢9 Ss LS £9 cs

gk ts bS 19 es 6S 19 #S

€'6S 0S 09 0g cc 19 1S

Bigg es 09 cg 9S 09 9¢

LES Ls 09 9S 09 69 8S

LS 9¢ 19 9¢ 19 £9 S¢

L'9S GG €9 rae LS 69 gS

| 4 | £°bS 1S 19 1S tS €9 as

4 1} e'9¢ eg 69 1S re @9 re

an 0°8¢ ra L9 cs LS 9 9S

5 | 0 bE 1¢ a9 6F 9g 69 SF

2D 0'6¢ &S 09 a4 9¢ felt) cg

= 0°98 eG 59 PS L¢ 19 PS

= G:cc gS $09 gS Gs 09 #S

es 0's¢ I¢ 09 bS 9g 19 ec

8 Lvs ec 6S re 9¢ 09 £¢

5 L'9S 9S ra) es ag 19 tS

5 0) 9S PS 09 +S 9¢ 19 vg

= 08g Lg 9 eS tS 69 ae

es BouG eS r9 LS tS 19 gc

5 0°8S LS 09 LS g¢ 19 8¢

S L'8S 93 €9 LS gg 19 ag

& 1°09 LS cg 09 09 £9 6¢

3 6°8¢ 09 1 19 +S 6S @9 9¢

E. pice ag (as) es S +9 +S

e 0°99 LS 09 1g 69 19 0S

0°89 Lg 09 LS 09 19 1g

L'8¢ g¢ 69 95 ag 29 LS

o'Lg S 69 es ag $9 2g

0°9S bS | g¢ ge BC cs ee |ikee 19 9S

J Ge arog ob er) acc aac; ime eco 29S
upayy ‘W'd§ ‘W'dG Suey ge "N'd§ "W'dG wal Daal (age 2

*qiuq Aq “poyouyne 191 aWOULLetLy,

*layauMOyoOAS

“ue uado ur Ja1laMOWWIOY

P6L'EG
a ae a
LOLS PELES 061°8%
QILPG 9e9b% BGPP
0c8" 808° 808°
918" §6L" 6."
8h" BLL" GOL"
GLL* PBL" LL"
961" z08° 808"
918° 318" 818"
008° ORL" GGL"
GGL" 061" 88L"
094" FLL" GLL"
G6L BRL" 064°
003" GRL" POL
GOL" 991" GOL"
082" QL’ GOL"
981" Apne GLL*
96L" 961" 06L"
018" £08" 003°
z18° 08" 8."
961" 061" BBL"
808° P18" 808"
OLL* BBL" 981"
R6L" OLL* 9RL*
BRL" OTR" B13"
83° 908° p18"
008° S038" £08"
vOR* 803° 008°
P18" 018° G08"
08° F19" £8"
O1g' 008° ors"
R08" £08" 08."
R6L" G6L* 06L"
OUR RS £08 £3 POLES
"Wd 6§ "N'dG@ a SN
“ISO

‘sunppalasqQ porbojosoapayy fo wasiiony—'T “ON

AVION

“Uva

‘-1VIOL

Té
0g
66
86
LG
96
GG
bG
£6
GG
1G
06
6L
8I
LT

HAM OOM DH

I,0ad
“9S8L

‘aed
Fame twee, en eoee

rer ee oer veeeee eee) Gag [reeeeeceee . Gg . “le Pp . deol

teee eens] seaeee| see teenlsecsee| sees teeeeveeee| 7) |sveeenenes seeceeeee BOS [rrr cer[rseees|eeeeeeeeen| gay jeseee seeseelseseeeseeeeeleoumig Ty

tteeeeceeens [ees eeeeeeee] To
POO MOT EE LO "urd OLS
“Ure CIT | "** GB HL | 08

tetra seeeel sees seen cree! 97

see ereee

CO Ne en en ce

e ** AN P eae gs 46 “9S

eeeee pe eeee eee

twee te ral st eees | see seer seeeesi reese peeetees

mice

09 09 09 GR
a
i

Ponca

eee eraser

Si ee ee Ce

SOCOoET

8
“a i
, teeeeeeel og eran |
stesso | gp [rtteteee] op veeeeten |g

seeps 08

seer esos esos ae

“ud epg "urd ogy | 2%

see renee,

see ee seeee

teeeerag

CEN el fay
Ure IT
“WB C16

se see aeeee

re

sisiaiesayy d z
"te O8"OL
“ULB O'S

a a iy

METEOROLOGY.

190

sabeseseener] 5g
‘trttursd g | ‘urd og's | &
teeny ‘dc **u‘d CLI BE

nlc

ANA OA

reeeatg
Here AAG
. oo

coooo
|

re

IQT™ AMD OWMO

. ° $ ae ee ir 1G
ayer SGN BEEN ‘urd gg'g |**urd gg'g | 0%
ee eeeel ieee 4 . p FEDOCO ia | 6L

“urd oF'g9 ‘urd ¢

Un dees SQLS E Ay rong
sees cu ‘de WL “d ert LL
"UL ‘dOL'p Mersisisinyy ‘d] OL
“ad yep | ure ors | SL
“sur'd 9g'g9 |‘ Ul *e Gp’g | FT

beset eeee eel sseeeercees | py

‘urd gpg] |W -e Og TT | OL

Sere
Seer
Or se ee ees 2 aC CSc |

OL [tit ttteticcseee| sees ce eeee

6 seee re eeeee gy

i=)

nl
.
©
.
.

OL ittte

oco onmooocscoo
“ON

.

.

.

.
co)
=
>
o

Be eee

tee ce eseee

lo

se eeee se eeerl esos

Peter | iase se ee weeee

QroQQRQen

€ G
0 G
0 G
teener Saivelels c |g ve or itt
eeees eeeee L . fees e . OL tees se eeeeseeere Sr ‘B (}33 2 as
eens sooo Or see ee eeee <q q fh seen ODOT i te ‘dclz “ul ‘d OL al OL
secenel rece z veveee eee] 5% Ss 6 “urd ggg |-m dyer | 6
Deieieie| csacere 0 reeee eee] og as | 8 “ude g [totum dT | g
ee 0 oo . rG qs é ee ied @eeee cease L
sieisie OT teseee] Be Bier |) seve sees see cecees urd getg [ru d geet | 9
isch ce ¢ Boncori aarove)eood ee) gp [etteeeee aS ?GN “urd o1'g |°uld cger | ¢
nee seeen] sees ¢ teeeeeenee! & teeeeee | op cece eee hese gg *uredep [ue gel | &
se@eeee eeeeer eee 0 "Pee eeeeee te eeer sete aereeee 8 sere seee seerserere se@eesnesenesieoseeee .seeces g
Piha ‘d a" F vivieie-airyy, ‘dp
secccelveeceees|seecrs| vae 0 Stee eeeees| Be teeee mg | gy % mde g [ta dt] S
sewers sees 6s sewer lreee 0 ee ere eos € OOD OOH cy OL ae “ud gl‘e “ur sd of" T OOT

“9S81

| S19 Are OSOCHrSOOSORSOMNASON ADS
a4 ce

| SD —_——
ae eae ee, 2 BF S iS & Fi
m= z i = , =}
A g = g “Spuly > ‘asinop : s SPpurlyy . “asInog = “Spuly 2 asiIney Sr “Surpua “Surauis0q
® > 3 > 3 5 > [ fuUT
c 5 : 5 eS = oy e < a Jo outiy, Jo ouny, ‘a1eq

‘Wed § ‘Wd G ‘WV 2 -

“Wd 6& ‘Kd @ “N'V Ep

+

“spno[pD !

( payap [[aa) spur Ag

*panulyuop—suoynalasgg poorbopo.oapayy fo sapsibayy—"{ ‘ON
191

METEOROLOGY.

*QATJIeJap IoyauIOIV £ MO] 001 00S" *

9° 1S 9°FS 613°&3
= ——__ + - ————- ~ —_ er > err
G'6P 6°9¢ L°h Oe 9°ESC 9'IS L'09 9°IS eee ere rel ee ee ee ee eee eee EBRLG g1R "k% CIR ‘&3 "UDOT
PEST E9LT c' 11st eos Sens TOBOOT 66ST E831 O09T Pe ma teseNe aS a ease eee | ggece 66S |" TRIO,
0S Lg €S ) {| e°ss as 09 S €¢ 09 es ges" Fes" ces" 1
6b gg 6 O°bS 1g 09 1g &¢ 6¢ 1g 983" 0z3" 908° 0€
6F 9¢ ¢ | 0°bS 0g ag bG eG Lg S £03" GOR" 961° 6G
cs cg 70S | ores GS Lg FOS gg Gg ag 008° Gil" SRL" 8G
6F bS 0s 0°G¢S os gs 4 es S¢ 1g £08" G08" 9bR* LG
8b es 1¢ 0°6¢ 0s cg 1g aS 9g 6G 0@3" £23" $28" 9%
bP GG 0s €'E¢ 0¢ gg as &G gg es G8" RGB" Rts ° ce
Lb Lg Gp 3 878s 6P @9 6F ou 09 0G pra’ - | os" gig" iz
th 9¢ 6b ® 0°S¢ ec 09 es e¢ 09 tg 0c3" 978° 028° £6
0S gs L % L°cc cg ¢9 0g b¢ @9 0S gI8" 9z8" cB" eG
Lb 9¢ oF | 078s 0¢ 6¢ 0¢ b¢ 6g 0g ach 0P3* 928° 1G
LP 9¢ 1g 0" bs es LG GS eg 3 &¢ zbR* gc8° R28" 0G
6P ce SF 7 rs 1¢ 19 1¢ 6S 09 G 0g3" Sze" 0¢8* 61
ar 6S OF | S Lbs 1g €9 0S gg 09 6° te8" GER* 208° at
ig LS LP © £°S¢ Gg (a) cs Lg 69 Ge 0c8" 9z3" 9%3" LI
£ 1g 9S 6h \ 3 4 ees 1¢ 8¢ 1¢ g¢ rai) Gs bps" 9b3° GbR” of
oGh “UTR Ogg REL Ch We 6F Lg &F s 0°bS ag a) SF 29 19 0¢ eGR" 983° 8@3" ST
C6'918S.Gb “WE CI*9IV | GF 0g GP | ® | 0°FS 1¢ | 69 6P £g 19 6F 0€3" Sze" FI" iat
‘olG ‘M"BOE DIV | 8b 6S 70S S || oss 1G 19 €S c¢ 09 es 0G8* C&B" 0€8* gl
“otLb “WU "RB (9 1 RP ag 6F iS 0°S¢ Gs e9 1¢ $¢ €9 1¢ ets" 948° 968° GL
*o0G "MER YEO IV ay 8g 6F BP | ores gS 09 SG 9¢ 09 es 8z8" 01g" 03" IL
1¢ bS rey ~ 1] £:8¢ Gs | $¢ ag CG 8¢ Gg 808" fee 808° Ot
‘Ab URaAg giv | 1¢ 9¢ 9 | g | 0°ES Gs 8g 6h eg 69 1¢ 863° 8%8" 803° 6
*.0¢ ti'ece oie fgp ule 2
NE QWs [GSU VOSIIV | et Lg 0s = g°S¢ g¢ 19 eG c¢ 09 eg 988° gi8* b03" 8
6P 8g 6r O'LS 1¢ €9 LS tS rat) 9¢ 083" zIg* BIg" L
QP 9¢ OF 0°ks 0g 69 oF cg 19 Lb 808° GBL* QLL* 9
&P 09 Ly 0°95 6h 99 €¢ GG £9 eg 961" 96L° £03" g
1g 09 es €°8¢ &¢ L9 GG Lg cg GG G08" b)8° 008" b
S 09 0g | 0°8S ¢¢ $9 c¢ Lg 9 GG £08" $6L° S6L" &
0¢ 69 tes LLG &¢ G9 GG 9¢ £9 9¢ 008" 008° 808" 3b
$S 09 as J lls 29K ofS ob9 ob "6S £9 oGS bZB"ES b18°Ss PIg's] | f ‘wer
“Wd 6 “Wd G BE OSD a “Una “Nd § “W'dG i i, "Wd §& | Nd G SOY ‘Wd 6§ “W'dG@ ae Ware "LOBL
“Qing 19M *qing Aiq | : *payoeye 1ojaMomsdl f, hired) 6 |
*Sainjuiod Ula} ALO'T “11@ Uado UT 1aJIWIOUTIIYL “Ned
*‘rajaMoryaAsg , Jolauloieg

*panulyu0g —suoynasasgy joarbozosonagy fo aysibay—"{ ‘ON
METEOROLOGY.

192

NAMNQAAAIL

“NADA

eeeee

Q

eeeeee

“RW ANNAN

+9010,

PY,"
bi, ¥,\
SESS AG
Lally
RAC) He
COLA?
merece AA

seesaw

SOOO
Soon

Ce

TEESE stelle eee bead
én fall eens eee

peewee leet wees

9010,

‘uotIaud
‘uonoaig

wees

Se eee

eeoeee

seeeee

ste eeesl og

‘0105

SECO cr i) see wees

SSL AN Seem ewww ween wees rep NL

BORO Vt i ic

yes aie ae es see pie
| |

see wees Binisie=s | aisie) sisis21) fa ole ils AAS

ieinscleyAins seseee esos Pee ar

OD OOn V4

SOUS 1

ee

ee lee ew weee

seer woes

se ee weer

*uoljoa1IG

4ST

see tenes

wees

wae
steer
se ee ewes

ere eee
set eee
shee twee

‘spury

Wd g

"Nd G

Teer

seeeerl tree neaeee

“QG ine)

8

R:

& Tree NT

tenes |eeeeeerers
senate noes
se eeceeees
semen eeee

veneer | eereennee
s]eeeee wees

‘asinog

*ANOO[AA |

‘Nd 6

aS mMoooeo eocrocoesc

Coo MAOSCSCOnNn YW SoS

unouly

see e ee wees
se eeceseee
shee teers

era STIAT

AST

ee wee wees
a i i es
ry

“SpuLyy

td se@eee “N
e vee e eer
z Ooo A
G
€
G

ene

ZZZoui

tence
z vase eee.

sane eee eeee
seas ween
sane eeeeee

ZaZZ0Zz8

Am
a

a2zeag

Sooo dNe

"ANQAMANS

-

AD

RMN

.

Come
DL

Ai dececae

awe

beeen
Perso

mit

GLOW DN
N

lot

seen rg
. “oT

209

‘asmnug

* AVLDOTRA |

(‘pauyap [[aa1) spurAd

“spnolg

I

ID DO for) Aan ekor) SAand> Dr-oan
a)

~-O oie oor}

unowy

ast

ee

sew e eee
eee anon
see eees
sete eeee

sete twee

eee eens

sete anes

i

ures'g
‘8

“spury

tee sep eneeweneny

teen enang
teeter nary

ee ec ea

serve Cees ween

ne Pa

bese e seen
> ON

see ween

Ce a
ee

O62. costo:

eeeerony

‘asinog

‘W'V L

col

NQosnaras

ra

mu Contonoco @ ono i=) Aaroce

4unowy |

‘ured Oe'g yy ctttureey
“urd 06'S

“urd oe'p
“utd og"¢
“md cL"@r

see eee peewee

od

“urd gre

**u -d crc
“Ul ‘d Nie

“urd 0g"¢
-- rT ‘d CP's

sees e er eeees

‘urd 0e'T

“Bul
-pua jo aut,

“ULB OE" IL | 9B

ads § | ‘d Ol'P
‘wd g¢°e]
eure LT

*| 6t

sae ‘urd¢

OCHS Os SCO ay 3
"UL ‘d cis

8
L
9
Ss
el nis
€
eo
I

er

“une
*LEBT

“SuuNs
oq JO WIL
‘aleg

*ponulyuoj—suoynasasgg qoorbopo.oyapy fo sasibagy—*T “ON

UILIT
193

METEOROLOGY.

seve cess |senccels s|eeecesleoescees|- ss]eveces(ee eke | FQ [ote ttteeeeelseeeeeeeeees

sees Ay tteeeels

rene ag [este eel

see e eee eeeeeele

"le eee woslesseesl«

[Peewee ee ee ewan l-
i

Bs
‘aATLOQJap JoJauloieq £ MO[ 001 00S" 4

£°bS
poe i
g'1¢ Lg Las OS eae
bPFL C'PPST CLOT a ieee
6P LG 0$ |
Gp 9g ws
1S 29 ec
6S 09 rs
bS 19 LS
9S (a) Gc
cg 09 Gg 4
9g eg 99 =
LS 19 9¢ i
r 9S 6S 9¢ | &
be cg 6S *S [ees tes
(a) 6h Te es lees
oS 0S 6S es a
| 78S LG #og =
fo) ‘ud $7 ev sapungg | $¢ 1g es g
oe} ‘rapunqi iuieg | pS 69 7S 5
fo) "read SITY ie ot!
io] jo isay ayi Saapuny? jo ic)
& Ssupoynw jurey puw woug | ze LS 6P g
fea] 6P 9¢ &¢ fep
s 1g 8S 0g °
1S c¢ #S HI
; &¢ Lg 1g 3
*o6h “WB OE gIY | +S Lg 0g 2,
0g 09 &¢ ™
0S 8s SP
“ohh “UE OIY | GF 9 1g
*oTG “WM 'B OS OIV | TEP 9S Gr
0s TLG 8s
“eG “UIE QIY | IS of9 obS
‘W'd § ‘W'dgG Oi an a a
*qing 19M “qing Aig
‘syrewey eel
‘rajaMo1gotsd
=H
o>
rm

aye uado ul Jajawouay ys,

6°9¢
NN ee,

6°9S 8 '&¢ 119 L°SS
8°G6ST LOSt GILT 6SST
0 $S 1S 3¢ €¢
L°bS 1S 6S ape
g'8s &¢ L9 19S
0°8¢ pS £9 LS
0°8S c¢ 19 8S
L°6S 8¢ p9 LS
L’SS 9¢ €9 LS
0°6S Lg » 69 8S

| 0°09 8S 9 8S
0°6S Lg 19 6S
0°LS LS 6S Gg
0°8S GS £9 6S
0°L4¢ cs 09 9¢
€°9S GG 8g 9¢
€°9¢ c¢ 6S cc
0°85 9g Cc) 9g
0°LS bS 19 9¢
0°FS 1g 8¢ €¢
£'°9¢ 1S £9 cg
0°9S GG LS 9S
L°9S gg @9 €¢
g*9S LS 09 GS
0°LS GS +9 cc
L°SG GS 09 c¢
O'S 9F 69 ¥S
£7 PS 6P 09 b¢
L°S¢ GS 6S gs
of “LS ofS 069 o9f
“Uno “N'dG W'dG FI OW: of

09S
‘Wd

TS
6S

“paqovye saJaWOUltoy, J,

x19] IULOIV

*ponuryuopj-—suoynaiasgg yoohopo1oapazy fo sasibhaay—— "JT ON

008"
— SS SS ee

CO8'eS | RBL'ES

OPS'SS | 118s | LEO TS
88" 96L" 961"
G08" 008" 018"
big" org" 0c8"
0z3" cig Ig"
RIB" PRL" 008"
26L" 891" B6L"
96L" BLL" C6"
808° OLL" £08"
518" t6L" 608°
org" LBL" £08"
GGL" 83h" 002"
918" 96L" og"
008" 86L" 808"
01g" 06" 808"
808" G6" 86L"
18" 008° cE8"
ER" G8"

3803" 06"

961° 8BL"

GBL" ZL"

803" BBL"

OLL* O9L*

GOL" POL"

08" gL"

bg" 308°

988" 88"

ze" 618"

BeRES | FERED

Wéd6§ ‘W'dG

‘qUsIO Ty

Tox‘ee | **uRaT

‘-TRIOg,
RG

16

96

PAOD TAQ im OR

“gad
“LES

‘aed

195

METEOROLOGY.

"20107

seen NA

sent wwee
+ we eee

seg
“Ue
mann) L@)

ee er

sien sees

shee e eee tees

"20109
“UONdaIL]

NW'd Z

fete ee ewe ewes

SC i er is

eel twee eae

se reee

see we weee

Fee ee twee eee

Ce i
Rete ele wee wee

i

S4
=
o
9
co.
i)

Resor

sere eens

eoeerses|®

seen eee

er ny
see eeee
stew ewes

“spulry

<
i)
2
=)
8
<7
=
“

seme ween
see be eee
seme ee wees
ee
pene eweee

stent ag

ee
er
ee
see eens

‘asmmog

SCONMNoso
=

OL
€

eocor ornornNn on

*yuNnOULy

awielser AQT

eee ee wees

PSO a8 |

seeeBod

eo eeweee

seeeeenee|
eee eee,
|
|
|
tee ee eens)
seers eee!
sanee

seaeee

‘spuly |

(‘pouyap [faA\) spurAd

“md G

“A
Boje
an

teeeee ory

‘asinog

*AJTOOTOA

iB Booshor) AAVHOAID 2D
= =

a)

“yunOoULy

os

or ee
see eee
ee
seen eee

‘SpUuIyL

I teense eany

T teeeeeeny

z areletervre oie cy

sees eeny
veneer ergy
ree eee en

seen
seeeee
sewer
seen

eee wee wees

*AVIIO[IVA

rorwroon

onl

ANOS oonnao Loos)

“yUnOouWYy

NAG

WY,

*ponuryuogj— suoyna.sasag poobopowomnyy fo sajsibay-—-*T

“spnold

veoecuy ‘d 4
"UWB OSI
“UL 'e OTOL

“urd

Sur a
“ur dere
“utd cpg
“ul doe'p
‘ard ep ey
“sur -d op'G
“soma ed 7
"UL"? CPO
“ud 08°

“urd cpp
und %

“sar-d cpg
‘md og '%

‘SUL
-puo jo oun,

CD 6 6 ‘d (has
“Ue CTT]
"UU "8 Ch'G
Sey ‘d 08%
ue Og
“urd Gry
eeairry ‘d cle
“Ul BC's
a +h
“urd CC*ST
‘urd 0g BI
Oe 9 “d 0g "Ss
“urd og" T
se eOL-e TT
“Ul 'U CBT
“urd ge's
Sb “d rors
“Ut OTT
“um-vog'e
“We? OR TT
“Ur “BOER
seu BD

‘sur d 0g"F
‘wd Cpa

ee
peewee eneee

\* "urd 0g I
jeeeesur ed T

“suru
-aq JO Oully,

"Ue Y

mA OTnn

‘qaad
"LORI

‘ayed

‘ON
METEOROLOGY,

196

a) ee | ee ee ee ee ee ee ee | ce ee

se oere|eeee rene

sete eee

eeeees

weecee

GE

for)
ea)

sunowy | race oe oo

Fa SRiSEUAA GI |(saisiinieionce vin) wieaesi|ainiteine ¢lasdiicses|eseine jeneeasanas

G Say eeeeer see e econ |e SOeer| st FPF ener l/s ees Sete | eoeser -eeeee eer

b aw |g seeeengy [eeeeee|enenenes nicleiaisinte/e'| eiaversiere! |aterers aay aressie

I sie TAA: weeees|teeeeeeel|eeeves|*ee* werleeee Fe * eee nen sees eeeeee

BH clcrcicll aieieiettattterct|lcvavayieucl urarevouetetere | xtwrai@ieralltereruse) oieioie;||ain/Afexa) e/ aie} /wjajaia/aje) |(eieie/s deaeiejaie
eslels\elel¢ :
aS ® a oO a GC) 5
® icy ° is) ° 9 ic)

g = s = ‘ = |‘spurm| = | ‘esinog
i=] i} 5 .

‘W'dg ‘Wads NIV L ‘Nd 6

(‘pauyop 19M) SpuT MA

se eeeee

se eFo 7

* IaMO'T
* OIPPIA
seroddy,

ee eeeeeeeer

*spulyy

se ewer leeeese sees

G
1G
1G

SSIs nay

1 se eeee ony

‘asinog

*AMWOOTOA

Ce ey

b'6

9G

OL

sunoaty | See ie a

eeee rere

see enee

eae eee

‘spury

ssleseeee

1

s)eeeeee

*AMOOTIA

ee eeee cess
seereeoree
sees teeees
CCOOUC |
seeeeeeeee
se eoee reese

‘asimog

B'P
cel

‘junouly | tr AQ S& Oa

Wd

‘spnola

NV ZL

seeees ees ee lseeeesesenes

sur ‘d 08°31

serovar srsee

“sur 'd cps
*sut'd O18
“sw 'd og"9
“ULB SI'S

“Bul
-pua jo auity,

utd Ser

Te pC
urd g¢"g
“Ue CT IT
“ule gc’)

“‘Suruurs
-9q Jo OWL

“Uley

~panulpuog—sewoynasasq¢d qonrhopouoapayy fo wapsibay—"T “ON

“-UBaTt
“"* [8101

86
LG

96

‘aled
197

METEOROLOGY.

‘AALIOAJap AA1aWIOING £ MO[ 001 00GB" ¥
Sa a SEER IT RT SRRSR SR HEISEI SIRs SEES EP SST [ST RELA ASS SSE SET | a a a EST 1 Sc SS

8° hs
rn
6°GS P°ac bet eee ee eeee 0°a¢
6691 GI8I GiOGOT yo eee Geno
‘uorneinp Woys = |— Ss aes ee ee ee
jo Japunyy pue surujyay | 2¢ 6S 9¢ 0'°6¢
9¢ TS Lg L'19
9S Lg 6S “ss
8¢ 09 c¢ 0°19
Lg 09 9S £°09
@ 9¢ g8¢ ¥S 0°8S
9¢ 6¢ R¢ 4 8°6S
Gg 78g cg z 8°L¢
pS 6S ¢ n 8°LS
GS 8¢ ia 5 @'8¢
€¢ 6¢ aS) ) 0'L¢
1g 6¢ thS » ¢c'Ls
eo 19 €¢ Px L’6S
eg 6S #cog = £°8¢
cc o9 cc 3 0 19
cg 6S TS 5 G'6S
0S 8S 0S =| €°9¢
0s $¢ GP 4 ees
0¢ ag QF 5 LS
€¢ 8S 0g 5 0°9¢
g¢ 8¢ €¢ ° L‘9¢
1¢ 6¢ 1¢ 1 8°9S
8b gs ZS s paren
6b LS 3 E. "6g
6P 8¢ 6h . 0°09
Ly 6S 1g 0°LS
: Lb Lg 8 e°cG
€¢ LS GS L°8S
6P 09 #S 0°RS¢
LG LS $S 0°6S
oS oLG ofS 00 °8S
‘W'd ‘W'dG SO Wie, “Upayy
*qIng 19M. *aing Ard
*sysemoy = !
“lajamoioAsg

— eo

GGG

GIL

0°9¢
————————————————
o'e9 E"¢s
RC6T G9GLI
19 LS
89 6S
09 6S
99 LS
99 9s
(a) cc
69 09
19 9¢
T19 9¢
£9 tLc
T19 Th
T19 9¢
99 gg
£9 gg
69 LS
$9 Tug
29 #S
19 eg
6S 9S
19 1¢
09 cs
T£9 PS
rat) 'S
£9 ag
69 bs
L9 vs
rat) £S
69 9¢
£9 LS
£9 cc
of9 SG
wag | WV E

‘ire uado UT JaJ9WIOULIAILT,

108" 8%
—_—X—X—SsSXass OO Oe ees
tevetees|sseeeeesleeee sere! QT g epg 088% Qng'e%
cteteeeelenee eens leone ees) Qe greg CRG" FG 9F0"S%
09 @9 6S 908° P6L* G18"
09 +9 8S 98° 0@8° bFS*
6S 09 09 0FS* sis" Ges"
19 69 gs 868" GIs" P08"
09 £9 6S 008° 8RL° SLL*
09 19 gS ROL" 0gL* POL
6S 19 8S e9L* 89L° 8LL*
gs 69 8g 86L° cgL" 062"
8¢ 19 c¢ c6L" PSL" 88L°
9¢ 19 LS 96L" 961° 008°
LS 19 c¢ 003° C08" 808°
Lg 69 9¢ G08" O18" L08°
LS $9 LS r18" 81g" GGB*
6¢ 9 8S GPS" GES" 68°
09 c9 LS 6&8" c18* @18°
6S 69 c¢ O18" GIR° 808°
9¢ 69 &¢ 913° OTR* G8"
g¢ 6S cs 0&3" 918° 0G8°
9¢ 19 bS 018° 018° FOR"
LS 09 9¢ b£8° 0€8° 0€8°
8S 19 cc brs" CB" F183"
cc G9 GG G08" 008° 908°
c¢ 19 cs 808* bG8" 0G8*
bS 19 bS 978° 818° FI8°
cS £9 oS 908° 008° b6L°
€¢ eo GS 06L* b6L° C6L*
eg 69 es 964° P6L° P6L"
cc b9 9¢ g08° gig" 018"
9¢ £9 8¢ 018° P08" FIs"
19 £9 9S 028° P6L* 908°
06S o19 ofS C6L' EG PRL ES 008° &%
‘Wid g | ‘W'dZ | ‘WV EL | “Nd G ‘NW 'dZ ‘WIV
*poyoune aja WOWatLT, “uso

‘ponuryyu0g—suoynasasgQ poobojosoapyy Jo aysidxy—"T "ON

x JojaMoirg

“una TAL
“++ RIOD

1€
0€
66
RG
LG
96
GG
b@
£6
GG
1G
06
61

QT OMmoHn

ei
=
5)
-
a
=

“LOST

‘ayed

METEOROLOGY.

198

ee i ei

}
rr

seen

ES gic, ee Pea aS ae aaa eae can Di
GEMS ttt teteeees|eeeeeteee tees oees
46 ig ee, '4 see eee eee weer eee ee sere eoee eee ee ee
Seta sates gy || nixxosl amie set ir oeeal ba clavill<is's es
& OEY Hott eree enews eeeeel tees tees ee ee eee
Ps tee AAG [teteee|seeeeeeelreeeas| sees eee | eens
seeeeag | eeee sweeter tere eee eoese tere
pasisongt atest | aw sic | tee eee
se Sheds aneee
*** Ap |UONRIS eee weer lee eeee el eeee eeee
wteeee SAK, eee wees seeeee eee ener eee
caiscnaleauaie gt Fao aNco | RBSCee | eon Geeeel eae ate
an (Se ere ee La coRe
sestes/osee ek veetese| eases seteeees
Een ae et = Be ~ =)
3 ® 3 e a 3
@ 2 ® iat © iS i
s = 5 ea spury
= 5 5

‘Wid G

‘Nd Z ‘NV ZL

(‘pauyop [[oa\) spurAA

ee ee Cee eee
sane ee eee-
ere ee eeee

teers eeees

wee eee eee
pee sewn

seen wees
eee ee meee
|

shee ee wens

Cr

steel tees ‘A euonrig

seen eeeras

I

eevee leeweeesere
ei iy
seen wees

were eeees

e teeeee ng
Sono gts

*asinog

*AVOO}I A.

cotrrouro
a]

EQS SORMINS MGvS SOoDR ©

unowy

peeeec rere

sheet wees
se eee wees
see erreeee
seer eeees
se econ eens
Sid
see ewe eens

SAO fo |
** JaMO'T
** JOSIE
** IAMO'7F
** TOSI

“''JaMO'T
~* 1aUsTH

se eeennnee

SOE [ot

“spur

Bo ase
8% Rb e Os]
te ee
1G is
6 | asa
26 QOD Sita Ke
@ |" OS da
Blt ods
tees? f) TBUOIIVIP
tenes org

"NO OD OD

eg
Ieuonvig
“eres

tere
AN

nia +
“AAQR :
>

= lot lot

eeeeees

G "asa

seers

seeeeleee

asInog

*AIDO[AA

‘W'dG

‘Wd GZ

“spno[g

tg |

“ANTAL |

‘eeveroryy |

se eo ease

‘TaMo'T
* USIA

* ystH
“IaMO']
saoddq

seen ewes
stew eee
seen wees

see enee
eee eees
eee ewer
a
sete eeee
seen eeee
sees ores

“spur

rete ee eres eer

ECO Oy H.\
£ GeO OUaET (=,
ra nisielaiar AAI:

we eeee sees

z tener ay

ce eeee sere

anes

seen

seeeee

se enews

veeeeeleeee oAQ ay
GC | sadees
Z fo as
<
©
S)
= | -asmog
S

‘WIV

“ponuyuopj—suoynaiasgg oobopo.apyy fo uasibaxy—*{ “ON

OL

MOCHAMAMONS mow Cal + oon

oo”
a4

*junoUry

“utd 06"T
‘wd ST'@1

teeee eeeees
Se ry
sewer nee nene
tee ee scenes

OSSD eos [tes

seme twee eens

seeeoured rd

whee se ereves

UL ‘d CES

“‘Burpua
jo aul,

“urd cpp

Ce a
see sees ween
seen eseeever

s eee eeeeee

ul ‘d Ct

“Ul 'B 08° IT

se ee seen enee
seer sere eres
eee eeee sees
Sr ee i)

ee.

seeeory ‘dT

se eeeeeee

sewer eee eeeee

“ul “d 0g°%

see e renews

“ULe 0 '6

*Buluutsoq
Jo oully,

uley

yore yal
"LS8L

‘aqeq

199

METEOROLOGY.

eee eel twee ween

receeles TBO

i |

stew

ee eo

fer e een e le wewee

Peet mene lee eeee

see eeee

seer enee

G

8

|
<<) Ga |. Or

Or

** JaMO'T
** 19451

Hee eee

** 10qS1H
seer “Bog

Wan ane

seroma |g

SACRE LS L
soe seaKA Al
sheer qs Or |

“OIPPUA
“LOUTIEL
“19MO'T
‘LOUIE

oie

G
€
G
G
G
G

apes Secu

Serer gor

"rar ed 01"9
6 Udi

Pe

ured CBS
“wd ob | Te

peeeee| =se ee Pee mee lew we weer sewer ee leew pene l ster eeee Calg en le wee eae AB Tie a etaiaisieyell oe: s:QIMA| aie eieak e'edegsl|) Crsiny 3} «Camis aime eNews | cee MMB weiss)! chic os eGeisltisies ane sey aes OOF
erereee Seema seem eel eee e eee tee eee eee tee soe eresleeererlcveceuece fT POOR ee Cee el eee eee ee ZIG seer ewer lee eeenl sees eeeene 691 seeeeeenene eee eee *- uBayl
| ‘edhetee Siecco
| | eoneee! : oenine
|

08

“uv ge’g | tmeg | 6%
“opunyL

su #d
9 38 ‘SutaynU Siapunyy,

METEOROLOGY.

‘Ul ‘Bg 18 (0G “UNan SE,

sui ‘d gg*g—"ur “d 6g"
TapuNnyy OYA SuLujzyTe y

*syIBWoy

200

Ge 9¢

eee
G'PS 1:6 — |" [Eee paplouniniipiais
¢'PEe9l G*ELLI CreCOte sluapors eons
9¢ 6¢ | 9g ) if
$S 9¢ | ¢¢
PS RS | 2S
tS 6S | $s
eG LS | 9S
cc 6S | $L¢ | 3
eg 6S | gg =
gS 09 | 9c | ®
9¢ TRS | 9S 2
pS 6S | g¢ | 3
1g 709 | SG ©
1G LS fcc a |
3g 709 cg | S
Lg 09 TSG ® |
9¢ LS ecg 3
cS 8¢ | ¢¢ 5
GG ra) | $s 5
LS tg | gc o
9¢ #9¢ LS a |
as 6S cg | 5
8S 09 9S S
9¢ 19 | 9S e
cc 6S cs S
gs 6S 9¢ ot
c¢ (09 LS
£¢ 6S $S
bS 6S | 1¢
1¢ 09 | -6¢
Lb 09 tc
BS 46¢ #96 l
¢ ° °
‘N'd § Wd Ge | “HVE

“qing Aig

“qing 19 AA
*1aj0 WOAoAS

‘@ANDaJap JOJaUIOALG £ MO] COI GIB" «

6°6S
——— =,
66S g°9¢ G9 eG a |
as | S| ae |
P'96LT | TCOLE | Sc6I TSE ee |
ot ie ase.
L°6S LS £9 8g |
0°19 gS 39 6S
9 LS ag ae)
£19 8g Lg 6¢
e°19 GG OL 6¢
8°6S TOS €9 09
£°6S 9s 99 9¢
£09 6¢ ¢9 Lg
0°09 6S £9 18S
L'09 9¢ L9 6S |
G°6S tS th9 09
Gas cs | @9 TRG |
g's¢ =| 9g 7£9 L
L°09 6¢ | 99 L |
0"RS LS 09 LS
0°6S LS 19 9¢ |
£19 LS ZL cc
£°6S 8g cg G
ELS 8g LS LS
L°8S 6S 69 CG
0°19 6S L9 LG
£69 6S OL 8¢
e°19 8g 69 ag
L 8g GG 69 6S
£19 LS 19 09
0°6S 9S | &9 9¢
L'8S 9¢ cg cg
0°09 9¢ | 29 LS
06S eg 99 8g
@°8¢ LS 09 8S |
° ° °o °o |
“UBd TA ‘N'd § ‘Nd @ NV,
| |

‘are uado Ul LaJaUOULIaY,L,

teteteesleeeeeeeeleeeeees! CTgteg
stteteeeleeeeeeeeleeeeeees| Zope
6S £9 6S 0e8°
6S 99 8¢ GeB"
8g G9 6S PIs”
6S c9 LG PEs"
6S ¢9 6S 618"
6¢ £9 8S 808°
6S 3) LS 08°
19 £9 8g 9¢3°
19 £9 6S bes"
6S ro 9S 86L°
8y £9 9S PHL"
6S £9 6S 008°
6S eg ra 908°
09 b9 6S G18"
09 69 LS TI8°
6S €9 LS 818°
69 t9 LS PEs"
09 19 AS ps8"
LS 8g 6S 0F8*
19 co RS FIs"
69 gg 09 018"
ey) £9 6S P6L*
09 G9 9S 06L*
6S £9 6¢ 062"
09 sg 9g 008°
6G £9 9¢ 961"
6S b9 cs O18"
8¢ 99 9¢ PES"
GG b9 LS 613°
8S €9 09 864 €@
Wd 6 | Wd Zl NV EZ | ‘Wag
*payoryye Ja}aUIOWMAtLT,

, layalore g

*ponulyuog—suoynasasa: poorboposoajayy Jo Lajsoy—"T “ON

018"8%
as =)
g08°ss | LOR'E@ |**** uve
C6S'HG | COS HS |***** CIOL
0z8" 8e8" 0g
98" bE3" 63
068" BeB" 8
ee8" BEB" LG
908° 608° 9%
PIs" £%g" G%
988° 861" ixc
ees" 9%8° &@
608° 608" t
@SL" b6L* 1@
e6L" 962" 0%
08° ¥6L° 61
008° 008° aL
008° 908° LT
£08" 008" 9L
018° 623" ST
0%8° &h3* iat
9¢3° GPS" SI
bIg° G18" aL
£08° 008" IE
88h" PRL" OL
bSL° t6L" 6
PSL" PSL" 8
e6L" R82" L
8BL° 16L" 9
Z6L° ggL° ¢
at 003" P
878" 603° (a
0c3° 86L" j
gsL'ec | teres | I tdy
*LSSL
‘N'dG ‘HVE
‘qysI0 ‘ale

201

METEOROLOGY.

‘Un 'R 9 WW ofS UNOUL »

; eT  Mory tetera
sd et SEE | POR e wel ewes ween e © el ewww eee [twee eee eee ee (ee eeee wees £ Se. #eeeee if see ESINT 6 “O[PPIN sewer elesaeee as 6 eee eee eens ee eee teens 8I
“mop | @ |: a
See ee | ewe eeeeleeeeee | see ee see eeerleree ss | seen eeee ic tiglsohth) =| L seer USIE re . "NN iD wee e eee rd sins SUnIpaBieieg 6 “urd Chr urd cep LIT
wee eel tem wee eeles e. tte fe ee eee ey Sic Niggawcara ct 9 Hee tee ee & FOOD EIS] OL weet eons 1 OCI) G Ce ey 9T
see moq | go leeds
I SSE AAG [OOP e | mee ee se | veleeen |v eweisven|soev ener | neeeerisceeeceeee 0 sees UsIET ra . 9 seer eeee e inteaie]6s ry OL So aia sis eisioieisieie'sieH! oy
see" MOT Se
** OPI | iT
eee en eet weer twee ed £ weer “N seen eees eee eee eee ee & seee Usiet I 6 ee weer eee wee tee eee eens OL ‘uUl'e G'§ UAC 88 te) el
, “qystu jase] Sospy
Ce ee eae Fue weer ewww twee le wean twee eee ee c seen ee weee ee tee ac | OL aA O Ea! AS | or ***ul'e 086 oars ate) p) aL
’ “Vatu
Pe see I aoa =| rr we eeee gq se Soq aaa OIE OT ISB] jo qed doynoud aud Il
eecces| sees vee: . oe se eeeel ence ve l seve: SOOTY <1 veeeceee peeeeees 6 sees Surdg |ssurd ep'e | of

elie |

tere

I “"* MS

S
S| OT [rettescteets|eeeeee sense | @
8

oe MOTT s

AMON Rt

6
0 :
&

"ANDO RNOINAD a

SB Nisene¥onrecaerdcndh one agra [emer |e eet ge |=
% plod oe | ** OPH
£ “MSS esecoe eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ys

Biatwaib'w'|| Sisuaidols (hie |\s\e\a\0\010i|\> ep .ep.visil\eaine ies ‘ges gaa " UaIg I lees “MS > eeeisecces

teres
NUN

teeeee en
ag

~ Orr © DO) OOD

Ce ie i i i rd ST y= a aIPPUA neweae AR ** UST sages AC 9 FeO Ome eee eee ee wees 8
"1aMO'] Mim STORRLReToRS

c - "MS we eeee P(e\ein 08.0) ion ie jaime ee oe eee Oe eee eee T eee teense 4 pesinina Se “MOUS “AOA 9 Ce L
| “1aMO'T SiBIS aT ae ey

& "MS ee ee hie see eee Bas ee ee a ane 0 es £ eee nae | “TOUS *** MAN 9 Se eeee 9

Ag ¥ “A preheaeer eae ee 8 z hae aie 3 c er iy & paiisieleainey se ee eee BEE ITV =| c Ce c

te ASS seen] fee > | Peres] DO aiRem mane fh, ee rc ee oe ee 8 CO ee p

£

wn

seenng | 1 teeeeee ny

i

2

“HI9

ce er

“MG

be eeee res

om
=O

T [tree se eeee ceeene

udy
“LORI

TK
MAN ao
aA

*3010g
2010]

“Spury asuno0g *‘spuryy ‘asunog *‘SpulyT *asinog

‘yunouWy | =

*junoULy
*AWO[AA
*AWIO[AA

‘Junowy

*Surpuo “BurMUIsoq
Joaury, | jo owns,

*uotoaIy
*AVLOO[IA

‘og

‘Nd G ‘Nd @ ‘WV, ‘Nd NdS ey),

(‘paugap (jam) spur “spno[g9 “UTE

“panuyju0g—suoyvasas9Q qworbojosomagy Jo 1asboy —"T “ON
METEOROLOGY.

202

eee

wnecer| cee cess|scever|sreesee=|seeeer|ssneeenslsenececs|sneeer|seee nus Gig [testes eeer[eseane|eceseeeees! Gey |eeeecveelevenselecrsesseee| peg |reseeeseenselsevecrscsees|eoeertp ay
teens [reer eeeeleeveselsreeerseleverer(seceeeec|sesencerleeceer(seeeveseer| py [reece seerlsseneileresaeeens| foe levensereleceeeslsveecssecs| Aog |eesseesenee:|eseeeueesuc/oees s1MOT

vese mor | po [rereeereg [eeeree(uamod | gftesg

weet lL twee eee eee . heer a as ee OT seer ysl eoee ** UONRIS 8 “Oyo | e tiers sy 6 seeeourd Il "urd cT'9 0g

z “aif AK eeeeesrl sere ee es se eeeeslieeessese ee ee oe 0 ee ee et BUIOD LOC ¢ seeesene! 3G CIC e COCO eee EO eee eee 63
all

z sense feeee -[eesecnee|oeeee [eceeeseelene eresleaeeesleseeeeeeee| GQ 0 [eseeeeenes ; Ni og [reeeeeee] go fetes taag | og [reeeeeceeees[eee seeeeee! gg
S

% snes py [teneeelerartenaleeeeesleceesees[ersewees| sesesng |g [tees eeeees S| 9 [teserees senses gy |g [eeeecaeeseealeseeeeneeeeal pz

“MS
o see “M setae Se eget eee eee ee seen + te eeee eee. 0 ee Dreiaipietehar ey € ae AE LE = eee eee “N 9 eee eee eee eee ee eee) 93
$s mje Pees
: senuegy [teceer[eeeecees|eeeees[eveeseee|oeeacees[eeeue: [eseeterees| g [este eeans seeeee ONT g [rrteeteeseee| sense eeeeesl og

“agg
$s

* MOT
see eee eee Ol eee qsIpf

Seer | Op fistes teeseeleeeeeenseses! pe

Stee eeee

vee eee Ay

teeeeees eee orc 3) 6 ‘urd cp'g “td 06°9 &
OCIA 142 8 Pewee eee emewl se eewereenee GB

1
&
6
veeeeeenl go [eeeeee ey
G
€
G

or fr Oo

A OINANNANAMHAMIRM ON ANANA

see MOT $ seeeee “7
arPP UN Seer
G mee eeee er eeerlaeee ewe eee ee TI "UST pba | 4h eree tee ee ewe eee eee eee I s @e eeeverere eae IG
seeees eee eeee eeeees sors eeaovi;eeoe eeeel ee eeee eeeeeeeeer I ee ee sie selses AACN 8 eeee eeee = es bd Oe ee oD eeeeee 0G
reeeee Ay a oe
b DERI eee e [rece ceeslisesecelee ee eset! cer ceveleccscer|s eee secs 0 eee eeenes seeeee acl L a 3B EU IOO IG Y i? ween meee eee tee ee eee oe Be eas
— a
ge Les | |e : : < ; 3 ;
3 ® 3 ® 3 o o 5 ) 5 iS) re)
ry = 5. ° S. ‘spuly = | -asanog E “‘SpUuD £ | -asmog 5 | -spuryr = | -gsimog ]
5 = = 3 m= Ss = a os Gs ‘Suipua | *Suruutsoq

| jo awty jo oUlLy,
| "a1eg

Wd 6G ‘Hd Z NV ZL ‘Wd Gg Nd WV L

(pauyop 1041) spuraa "spno[g Ue

*‘ponulyu0g—suoynasascg qoorbopowoajayy fo sajsibay—"T ‘ON
203

METEOROLOGY.

“Wy Slay [LUNOU Iv JO]AWIOING 4

| €°Lg 6°8g $86 £6
Ed —— =) (pgp ae ee ee eee =
G9 £°6S £ 9S gece ake eal Ghee Peel lie /AY L'19 9° Lg £6686 | GLE'RG | 926'EG |" **URATT
S’IPLT | ZLE8T OPLI SANE SSS GRL CS eeu SI6T GRLT th8"16 | SPST 0g9'16 |" ** 1RIOL,
tS 6¢ 9¢ ) (| Gheaie ieee 9 LS Lg «9 LS 000°VG | e86" 886" 1
‘Buyoynw ‘apunyg, | fps 6S Lg | 0°6S cs a9 09 LG 9 8s bL6" $96" 096° 0g
8¢ 19 9¢ L°09 6S c9 8g 09 £9 LS GL6° 166° 096" 6G
Lg 6S Gg L°09 ag 69 69 69 69 6¢ 9L6°€S | OL6" 916°86 | 8G
cg 09 6¢ | L°LS 8g 19 6S Lg £9 6¢ O10'FG | 926° GO) bE | LG
6S 69 GG g°g¢ 69 19 ¥o¢ «9 9 LS I10°b= | 986° 086" 9%
8¢ 16S LS S"6S 69 19 8S 09 9 63 P8666 | 9896" 886" GG
6¢ 19 9¢ ! £°09 09 v9 ug 19 (a) Lg GOO'VG | EL6" 826" 1G
cg 09 8g 5 0°09 LS 69 6S 6S 9 6S GOOFS | GL6* 966° &
9¢ 09 Lg ® 8°3¢ 8¢ T19 LS 6S 9 6S 000'bR | #86" 966" (cc
LS 6S LS z £°6S Rg ra) 8¢ 09 19 Rg 986° FG | $26" £66" 1G
9¢ 6S ag 3 0°6S gg 19 ig¢ 6¢ 19 6S 000'PS | O26" 066° 06
8¢ 6S Lg a L°6S 6¢ 29 8g 09 &9 8g O10'#S | 896" 8L6'E3 | 6L
c¢ as 9¢ 3 G°LS 9S 6S LG LS 09 8S 000' FE | FL6° b00'PG | RL
fog 09 9¢ 5 £°6S 8g £9 Lg 6S 9 8g GlO"PG | 086" 966" LI
| gg 8¢ ; ae L°8¢ 8¢ 29 9¢ 09 =¥| &€9 84 096" £96" 826° oT
| 9s Ls 9¢ BS gLg Lg 6S F9¢ gg 6S 8¢ 566° 96" 9868S | ST
| #9¢ 19 Lg x Lang) "Lg oH) Lg ag 19 gy P66°£G | GLA FOO PG | FL
ag 6S ag = £°83 Rg 16S Rg 6S 09 6S 900'FS | 896° 086° rae
| zg 09 6S 2 8°6S 8g £09 19 8g 09 09 £00°FG | OL6* £86" al
cg 6 ag ® L°6S LG £9 6S 6S £9 6¢ PRG 966" 916° IL
| fz¢ 16S Lg a S'09 6S Th9 8S 09 £9 69 p16" 8°96" 086° or
8g 09 9S E. 0°09 6S 9 LS 09 £9 69 886°€6 | 98686 | RB's | 6
ie ag on : Las 89 6¢ 9¢ seveeees|settecesleeeeeees|serevereee|sen veceeelenserersee! Q
6G 6¢ eg elg¢ | Gg 19 9¢ eae SH sallt Greate eae)
gc 19 oc oes. | «(9S Po 8S ttt eeaaleeeeceus|eee sees [sees eeetas|seeeeweeee|steesennee| g
Hd 6c oc Bee: bee 19 1c rete eesleeeeveaelseeeues [rare ceeees seen seeeee|saee steno! G
“wurry “TOpUNILL | Lg 09 £S L°6S 8g 09 LS Que aes, cea Qui v
gg Is Sc 1'9¢ 1S 9¢ GG «WiGi§ iw Wl | eal cain wa] Winiere Raaleth|| eal telete’w el ae PeaN Ns bs g
96 8G og e'9¢ ic 09 ac BF eee | ar aeionollocecipeod arin sapere erate z
£S 6S pg J UW (ego slags 09 9S sess gs ; : 7 ee T Any
° ° °o ° ° ° ° ° ° ° “LOST
‘W'dG "W'dG a ak a “uve | “Wd & "W'd @ PG Way, “W'd 6G ia: i Wii ll "Wd § "N ‘dG Hehe Mat
| : P “qing Aig
*syeULayy “ING 19M ‘payoune JojaurOULIAY TL, sO ‘oud
‘iu uodo Ul A0JaWOUIEY TL, ——— ~--=- —————_———
“Imauoiyoksq , 1a}9WOIVg

*panunuopg—suonnaiasqQ qonbojosomayy fo sajsibooy—"T ‘ON
METEOROLOGY.

204

teeming

Se aN

z senna
a 4
Blas
os o
s

.

wel eee e eens

see Ay

teens |oeeerny
renee |eserory

seeees

*J010

“rN

seme seee
sees eeee
eee tens
se ee eens
se leweatee

uonaolld

‘Wd 6

‘Wd %

|

Or

se eee leeeeg ny

ee

ONY*N
"plop
ON

seeeee

seen

seme eeee

theese oeee

‘2010,

“uoT}I011G

‘W'V ZL

(‘paugap [[2M) spurAd

SORE TS) 1

se ee cone
see cene
see eeee
sere ees
see seee
see weee
see eee
teeeenes

see tee

Se ary

“spurs

sees

sae

*AMOOLAA

ee let re eeeees

eel eewesceeee
sa leweeesenne
+ leew re eeeee
eels eeeea eens
ee leeaeee eens

Sonate

Ce ee
ee leew eeeee
wl ee ee weeeee

‘asinog

‘Wd 6

“yunouly

CUR {09

ozieis)* G0 .

teeeeSog |
ae AO GT

sewer eeeee

“) MOT

see arene.

sete wee eee

“MOT

seen

* MOT

ee ey

"spury

5 OOOO

Tog
z renee

z teen eee
“a
terme
ree eerg
see gg |

alo

aio
QIN ONQNAL

mice

‘gd puss

ale

sees ee eer

AQAA

ah ict

TAR

ict

z nsee

‘asinog

AYOOJIA

Wd

“spno[p

junowy | Sy

** MOT |
wee "BOY

POG Tsh(a)

‘spury

seeeee

rilee

seacee

lee det
GU sO Ge

.
.
.

ale lee

ANANAN

ict ler alct

ANAND Nan

G

*AWWOOIA

peewee wees

[pete
Ms
“MS ‘*M

‘asmmog

oO

“yunOULYy

‘tur *d C16
IOC 6 0 ‘d 9
‘sured OTP
‘Ure CLT
“yystu jo jaed
“urd Op'¢
Sn 6 0 | “d G’g
teeeut Rg

“urd 0G"e

“Ul '® 0€° OT
“ud 03°6
‘UCT L

‘d o1’p
‘d cig

‘d OL
‘dcre
‘Ul’ (E'8
‘urd cate
oeerouy “d €

> OD

WY L

"ul ‘d OL'T

“UL "8 OF IT

‘Surpua
JO oully,

eee cry ‘d 6
"ur “d 08°F
turd cpg
\° Ul "eR 0e°9
Ja1v015 puy
|" ULB O'S
"Ul "e 08"6
fur R OSL

"t Ch'6

elcid

weet were wees

UL
SLE
OL

*e OF'9
‘d 0p L
e 08°E

“ul ‘d CUT

"Um “d O'S
‘d 0¢"h
|" wt 08"6
|" UB 0B'9
\"* un “d ¢"¢
|**ut-d ¢T"%
(WB Og IT

“Ur

“U'e SUIT

“Buruuisaq
JO OuUILy,

“Uley

5c ome. eee ania = ai Seta oh ra

T

AcWw
“LE81

‘ayeq

*ponuryuog—suoynasasgQ pworhojosomayy fo saysibayy—"] “ON
205

METEOROLOGY.

seeeee

eeeene

eeeeee

sere Ay
tee
rere ay

weeny

se eeee

seeees

weeeee

seen

sees

see

see

shee

see

see

seen ee | ame wren
see eee see eee
tee wel eww wee
es ee id

See
See ee

es er
ee ee ey
Se ee
os ery
sewer] san cone

seen wees

seater le ewe ewes

see eens
see wee
see eees
serene
Stee neee
see eeee
teeeeeee

“Fog

se ee tee

see e eee

se eeee

sane eeee

cent w ee

see eee weeee

Se

eee wwee

cP

OPT

see

seeeee eee 4%

eee

ee weee

steers

ee reese

seeeer

eee ee

seen ee | ween wees

: 0
Sons are

5S

AAANRN. a
&
i<o|

ee eis

reer

“Iss

z reese tg

“""as's
beter
eee (0 |
Hea

ze leeds
& J. asa

seen eeee z
See I
ag
seee see! Bx
eee ewes it
ster eees Fe
seen eens ra
eeeoeee| &
T

see

see e eee

reeeee ag

agg

see ew eees

trees
sag

reeeee orgy

srg

teeny
ere rena
Sonora tena

8 |”

‘urd

‘ur 'd
Mort
G “urd

Souder
‘ ur ‘d g's
“urd O1'g
“urd QFE
‘urd Of SI
“UL 'R 06'9
comer “d 6
Ur
g |
ur
“turd ye'g
OL er

co” Oe

UL “d Cl'b
‘urd OL'@I
6 “UL "8 08 OT
weeeee urd OP'S
or |urd ore

BAR it OOS T 9 71)

‘sur 'd og'p
ssurd oe
‘urd 9c'%
res ouy “d re

‘utd 016
‘urd 08°S
turd oe's
‘ur d cg’Sl
"Ul"? OLS
‘UL ‘2 9e"S
“sur 'd yg"g
“ud OL
“Ur? Ob LT
‘eeesur dg
“urd GPL
“utd O19

‘rund Ob'h
eorm ‘d cig
“turd ce"
“U8 OF '9

‘turd 06°T
"Ur 'e OB °TT
"UL “t Gh°G
“turd ¢B'¢
“ur ‘d se

adore esesenl|sceseeeesece “TRIO g,

SG

PG
£6
GG
1G
0G
6
8.
LI
METEOROLOGY.

206

‘AUp 91 JO SUMUTTUIUT OY] PUL SMUNUIXLUT ay} O1v , SHY] payreul ssoquinu oy

‘aeasnpour ‘gy Ang 02 ‘LGRT ‘OT Any wolf ‘shop uaaas of—SNOILVANASAO TVOIULANOUVA ATHNOH WIV

| |
meee | LEB EG seers IS6'&% | eeeee CORES see eee 096 8% eebes COB ES se eees EL6°&S lee enee 086°&S eeees RRB LS hp Ss £G6'&@ ie ee G66 '5% ***upoll

a wer ae | | ao : a mSes aes ae =| a
9 | OG te L¥6 @9 | 8h6 e9 | 36 9 | €96° 69 | SL6° | 19 | 086° 09 | 986° 09 | 066° | 09 | 866°E% | OT
6S | 966° 6S | SF6° 6S | Sc6" 09 | 9c6" 6S | £96" 6S | 26° | 69 | £86" 6¢ | 066° | 8G | 866°E&% RS | 000'Fe | SE
19 | 8c6" 19 | 096° 19 | ¢96" 19 | 996° 19 | 626° 09 | @R6" | 09 | Sa6° 6S | $66" | 66 | t00°rS 6S | 890°hG | FT
09 | 996" 09 | 096° 09 | &96° 09 | P96" 09 | 896° 09 | 646" 09 | $86" 09 | 886° 6S | €66°E% 6S | 968'Se | SI
09 | 9S6° 9 | 196" 09 | 896 09 =| 9L6" 09 | 926" 09 | 186° | 09 | bR6" 09 | c66° 09 | 000° 09 | FO0'bS | BI
9 | +E6° @9 | OF6" £9 | 9F6" £9 | 86° #9 | 9°96" @9 | 096" a9 | 896° @9 | 8L6° | 19 | @86° 19 | 88h°E II
b9 | 886°EG b9 | OF6'E% $9 | PP6'SS £9 | e66°&% €9 | 8S6"E% €9 | G96°S% £9 | PLES €9 | CRE" €9 | 066'S6 £9 | 00066 | or AvWw
“UL “UL “UL “YL “YL “YL "UL , "UL “YL

=< |< Le = ——s = ss =—-

‘Width ‘W ‘d 7 ‘Wd é ‘W ‘d iG ‘W'ds ‘Wd f1 ‘Wd W ‘d i21 ‘WGI ‘WY IT

‘ponuyu0o—SNOLLVAUESAO TVOINLAWOUVA ATYOOH-ATVH
i] | | | |

88! THES [et222") GQ hs “$9999! O00 be pena coo'b] "8" "| F00'FS seers! grees [eres] PER ES teeees! G96 Seg [ener CORES Faas CLG'kG uRoT
09 | FO0'tS | GS | POD FS 8S | 800° hSx gc | goes | 9c | e00'F] LS | 000°F% Lg | 966° LG | @66° oe? gags" Ls | 026" 91
LS | 000'6% LE | 800°FS LS | 800 t@ LG | FOU" LS | 600° PG LS | 000'bS | LS | 966'8% 8S | Gh6°kS 89 | 9R6°S% g¢ | 926° CL
6S | S00 6S | GIO 6S | Gi0' bs 8S | SI0bx 8S | 810 bx RG | S10 bt | 8S | 800° 8S | 90°F gg | PON'S gs | 966° al
6S | 866°Ee 6S | GOD'S 6S | FO0' hGx 6S | 000° 6S | SA6'E% 6S | 266'&% G | 886°8G 6S | P86" 6S | 026° 6S | &26° €L
09 | 010'FS 19 | 9L0 be» 19 | 910° bGx @9 | 910°FS G9 | GIO PS 19 | 010°F 19 | 400 FG 19 | c66° 09 | €86° 09 | 696° él
19 | G66°SS 09 | 966 &%« 09 | $66'&% 09 | PAG" 09 | 266° 6S | 986° 6S | §86" 6S | 846° 6S | 926° 6S | P98" IL
29 | QUO @9 | 100° Fx 19 | V00'rS 19 | L66°E% 09 | S66°E% 6S | 986°&% 63 | &86°ES 6S | @8b°E 6S | 086°E% 6S | 8L6°E% OL = AeW
“YL “YL "UL "UL “UL “YL UL “UE UL "UL

‘WV I ‘WV TOT ‘WY OL ‘WY 16 ‘WV 6 ‘WV 73 ‘W'V8 ‘WW TL ‘WV L ‘WV 79
207

METEOROLOGY,

‘Avp at]1 Jo SUIMUIPUTT oY] PUL SUINWIxel ay) atv , SNIf] PayIBUL sIaquin oT,

Te OAGnsa | = || SBb.ae
09 | 8R6° 09 | FRB"
8¢ | PEB*EG | BS | C66"
8S | 66%) BS | 0668
6¢ 910° FR | 6S | FOO FG
ag | €00'te | 6S | 966°
6S | bR6° 6S | €86°
09 | bL6°€G | 99 | 896°ES
UL | “UL

‘Wd 6 "IW ‘d fg

09 | bL6"
as | 286"
ag | 988"

9 | 266"
go | 936°
09 | 826"
19 | 096'€
"UL

‘Wd

trees) oy prog
09 =| 096°

RG | 036°

6S | GRE"

6S | 88A°

RS | 086°

09 | 96°

19 | $96°&@
“UL

‘Wd fz

Pe LOBR AG
6S | Rc6*
8s PL6°
6S | 086°
09 916°
R¢ #L6°
09 9ch*
19 9bG'EG
“UL

"Wd

6S | eco"
ag | S96"
6 | 896°
09 | 996°
6S | O16"
19 | 0<6"
19 | G6'E%
"UL

‘Wd 79

vesees! Poe pg
09 | 8h6°

as | 196°

6S | P96"

09 | O98"

6S | £96"

9 | PRG"

19 | Th6°ES
‘UL

‘Wd 9

veeees! Teg Teg
09 | PRG"

RS | 096°

09 | 696°

09 | 996°

6S | 096°

co | tbs"

@9 | 6E6°ES
“UL

‘Wd ig

“penuyyaopO—SNOILVAUASAO TVOIULANOUVA ATHOOR- ATV

sees’ | 6F6°EG
19 GEG"
6S | 996°
09 | B96" x
09 9°6
09 9°65"
9 RE6*
€9 LEB EG
“UL

‘Wd S

sseees] gre *fey
@9 | OF6'»
6S | Sh6'»
09 | 856 «
09 | 996°
09 8°64»
tO | CE6"*
b9 | LE6 Sex
"YL
‘Wd fF

*unald
METEOROLOGY.

208

PEO" | 09 | 8F6"
90° | 09 | 26°
890° | 09 | Gh6'x
coo") 2S | 986"
£10 9 | 06"
NL0° | €9 | 96"
8hO" | €9 | 8r6"
990° | G9 | GE6"x
080° | G9 | 8S6°
OL0° 19 | PL6°EG
8c0" | 19 | 0S6°E%
840° | G9 | 616"
steel 19 | ObG Tx
140° 19 | 086°
e909" | €9 | 096°
bL0° 19 | 8P6"s
y90" | €9 | 856°
990° | @9 | 86°
GLO" 19 | 996"
890° 19 | 096°
PLO” 19 | ¢S6°
640° | 09 | Rh6"
640° | 6S | 996°
090° 19 | 496°E@

e ‘UL | ‘woireg

seh

=

a ‘Wed ¢

‘ARP oy) JO SUINUNUIT puv SUMUNXeW ay) ae , SUYI PaysVUl staquin oy,

Rs REG" * eeeeee eres oseeoeer tia SI td 9 1B UINUNUIT SII sey ane jo (IUIN

6¢ OG" x eee cree veserooroortian OW ‘a S¢ 78 WNWILUTUT s}i sey aung jo yal

‘Joy “woing
19 06" @ | 166" @9 | &b6" 6s | 1e6°es | 09 | eae'etx | eo | tees | 8¢ | Is6°es | ug | gxs'eG |**tt**
09 GCG" @9 | 6" 69. | LS6" 6S | GIO'HS | 6S | PIO'HS | BS | F1O'HGa | LE | BINH] | LG | GLP] |°""
09 bb6 09 | SP6° 09 | 8h6° 09 | G00°PS | GF | G0O'FG | GF | O10'PSx | GY | 8B0'PS 89 | 666°8Gr |5
LS 66" LS | OFG6' 8G | Cr6" LG | 966°€G | 8S | 666°ES | LS | 000'P%e | LG | B66"EG | LG | 9B0'ES [°° * Te
£9 Leh» | 9 | 8b6° | 9 | E56" 29 | GIO'PG | 19 | 6lOPS | 19 | OGO'PSs | 19 | GlO'TS | 09 | S10'FG
€9 RS6" x $9 | 996° | #9 | ©96° 09 | €ZO'PG | 09 | ECO'FG | 6S | BG bGe | 6F | LEVIS | 09 | 9c0'KG
69 9P6" £9 | Lb6° | £9 | SS6° 69 | P86" t9 | 186" 19 | G66°EGx | 09 | SRG" 6S | 9:6 £@
co) 966° £9 | 6&6" bo | G6" 09 | 16673 | 09 | G6H°ES | 09 | R66 Sx | 09 | 96H°ES | 09 | OKA EG
9 9S6"» | €9 | 696° b9 | $96" 19 | 10'S | 69 | GEO'PS | 6S | PEO'PS | GS | EOP | GS | MEO PG [OT TT oun
79 096" €9 | 096" | £9 | $96" 09 | 0€0'HZx | 09 | O€O'FSx | 09 | FOES | GS | FEO FG | BS | 1eO Fe [we Te rhe Te
19 Lb6" 09 | GF6*» | @9 | PSH 9 9 | £00 Fx | 19 | 866° | 19 | 966'ES | G9 | PEEKS = SOE,
9 b16’x | €9 | 616° 39 | @t6" £9 @ | 9836'S | 19 | 866°EG | 09 | 06H EG | 09 | COB RC« oe 6G
19 #6" 9 | 9c6" 69 | 096° ook SherjVeredeeelerverlnee ging (| WO, IMASqU Joya Moa” vo eee ge
19 696" x 19 | 926° @9 | 086° £9 | GeO'PS | €9 | SE0'HS | €9 | OO PSs | GD | 8EO PG | GD | TED’ PG ese Ke
£9 096" £9 | 196° @9 | 996° 6o | LIO'bS | 6S | @eo'bes | 6S | BIO'PS | GS | GIO'FS | GS | OLO'PG [TPIT TT TTT 9
19 G66" 19 | 996° @9 | P96" 29 | OlO'FS | @ | StOPS | 19 | 910°FG | 09 | LIO'PG | O9 | GBHSe | UTI TTT TSS
£9 8o6" £9 | 466°» | €9 | 396" 19 | OGO"F%« | 09 | GIO'FS | 09 | BINS | BS | BIO PG | 8S | 800°hG EE SEG
9 9C6"* | 9 | 656" @9 | 196° 19 | 910'FS | 09 | 8IN'FS | 09 | GOP | 09 | IcO"PG | 09 | IeO FG aaa
19 8°6" 19 | 696° 19 | S96" 19 | Le0°PS | 09 | Le0°PS | GY | RGO'FSx | 6S | FGO'PG | BS | CGO FE She CO
19 096° eo | G96" <9 | 896° 09 | £20°FS | 09 | 9GO'FSs | 09 | HBO'FS | 6S | GeO'PG | GE | NCO'KG 1G
19 Bo6* 19 | $S6° 19 | 996° 19 | 20 6B | 19 | FeO PGx | 09 | GEO'PS | BS | OGN'HG | GS | BIN FG ee 0G
19 0c6" @9 | @S6° e9 | 9¢6" 09 | 010 FG | OY | 910°KG | 09 | BLOF | 09 | OCO"FSx | GS | GLO’ FG esate
6S Lo6" 09 | LS6° 19 | 096° 09 | Geo'rS | U9 | OKO'KS | 09 | GE0' FS | 09 | SEO PSs | 09 | 9c0'bG “SI
19 acees | 19. | o96'es | 29 | Go6'es | 09 | StobS | 09 | 910°FS+ | 09 | 10°F | 09 | ETO"PS | 09 | GIO'FG |” ee Avie
‘UL | ‘womrg |u| ‘Woreg |u| “Woreg | "UL | “Wow” | UT | ‘woiwg |"qy | ‘Woirg |"yy | ‘Woiwg |UD | ‘Wolwg | “UL *UlOLe g

*01"q
‘Nod Sp bp Gr: i 7 “Wd a8 Re Weil Ea’ T01 ‘N'Y OT SN, Vv. 46 “N'Y 6
|

uaanjag ‘auyhop Buanp ‘aanpd ayn) sununiu pun sunurcpie ayp yorym qo Lnoy asioaud ayy pup apnjycun fo yunowp ay) no puif op apput

"us ‘dG pun “ub “DG

6 ON

‘swonwasasgo ponrtpauoing fpinoy- {OFT
METEOROLOGY. 203

s | RS fo ee sy) IR co
s a one Mas amen | da | fos rx
SS (Ot © Se ON 1 90 oO econ
= o Hoh SHH Aw | + Ar) oO
—
Say 30 4
Lend wo (PR a Tr] ler IQ ~ PA)
= os TAM Sid Mind Sed Ce SS aw HAC
~~ "SN OD OD CO 3 10 Aum | ~
Sj Lo) br) ~2 oH
Lome A a NON in ~ [oP JGR ICR
3 Fed lad belt hea het Inet | 4 | Fag a Oeiede
* Sd 1) 6 oD 10 eo | 8 ie a
Q, =. =
a
8 ] Se
S = H oO
Se i] Lie) > '
1 IAVsI_ IR AM) jay tied lov
% eee te eres ed | Ma | Ea 1 Ole
= * DOC InN ON or 00 = ma es =)
[et ale? aio? Joie ls BR} Un Py} rie | -I= (ag bb]
af tel shia blohille labia! OH | id | So rai 1 Oy
4 i STM am DO nc a é rm § 00.
Sat L = ened ~ Ton wt
[ICY MRE IN ICR ice I Inv 7S ld 1 IN
® oO wed SIN Ae ed ed led i) Si | Eis | Cie 1 Oey
; ODO oH om co } oo i
= m3 wi 8 ibe a tH aia
= YER, 16) 109 IR lor 10 Iv sS> IQs
2 8 wet SAM Phe Pim Med C4 | OH | SH Cy 4
S OM NO N Ns NN Y, UP
42 % ( = = pals a (| ee
= T mle? _[cv_,1a A | wet | oH ai iad
oS. : 1 Pet ey le dd WH | So ives
. So IN ™ moN a : Ce
Ss 2 =a
E>) (Pa Pn] Io lv Inv N ler| fn)
SIs a bas hai 4 | My | EH nas
Ss | SON Se som | oD ap is”
ain a]
2 we + ate et i a al
= S a Seti, Scie | 8‘? oy ain
SS . Nee ies ae (oe) NI oD
ge) clo ! é~
ee IR ie mA rn) ™ on
ce et el a da | ‘a | eo | nid
© ~ i t ' re th aN
> ‘ ' ‘ 2o |
~ > a 2 ' ‘ 1 i on ‘ t JO
Lie} [ es , : ; ! i i Caer] | ' ‘ | Me
1 ‘
2 ‘o ' ous ae pel cate hae
‘> er es '
8 Feist) Sp etlag is ' i ee wegen
& ' ' ' t ' ' ‘ t ' ' '‘ ' '
: : ' ; 4 ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' '
: ' '
‘> Pre ic wl se t ' ! t 1 i i
p 4 ; f 4 t t 4 ' ' ' ' ‘
' ¥ ’ ‘ ' ' '
8 4 ! : ' i Ped Nes ' Y = Pat 7 a ‘
= a eee ee | eS an
2 , PE ooh ian © Bs a So S = Peat rec
$ eae ee, ea: =) = or
- eRe: oe gS , we
' 3 ea ca
« ae 2-9 BE O:fahae
f=] ore) Oo c me mh PD
© = zo & Aas
j Sia Qmoza pe On |

14s
. S16 99 cel $8 88 T T T T T T T T T
sd SG £1 8t 9T t 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 |
9 € v L L if) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
6 v ha 6 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
068 € €t if 6 6 6 6 0 0 6 0 0 0 |
OL 0 L £ (ac) ( 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 |
1G rc las S Lt 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 |
1G € OL v FL 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (
06 6 6 € € 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
ZG Ih Ot Ot 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
96 6 Sl L S 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
uke 9 It 6 0 T T T T T T T T T |
SL L L L tc} 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (
ai ‘Nd 6 ‘Nd WV pf ‘W'd 6 ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘Wd ‘W
e °
pb 2,
. ee ‘4suor0A0 AlaInug *SpNO[d UIC *SPNO[O UIC *SpNO]d UIC *SpNO]d UIC *SpNO]d UC *SpNO]d UIC *SpNOfo UIC *SpNofo UC *Spnojo UIC *spnojo |
pa] “¢
S Qa.
fa < —sum Ays oy] qoryA Uo Shep Jo Jequrp Jo JequErp Jo JequELp Jo Jequrp Jo JaquEp Jo Jaqurp Jo JaquEp Jo Jaqurp Jo Jaquep Jo Jaq
(>) .
=
B
i
S
€ 8st U Gs € ds ee 5 | mL eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer eer
“3S0UNI@MO'T yl Seater. Se anit | Rsta ea lattes cae Se cas Se cas Se cas Se cas Se cas Se cas Se cas Se cas cee
“1OMOT A a/are) to ets etavava.se chotel Mattei alohatel ic! Maatate: alojatel bic’ Matote caletated hie’ Minato’ atetated bie’ Wmtet atatatel fet Wave's atetaded fe mate's aletadel [ict Waters ia latatel cl Mmatoteialshael rel tmatto: ale}
iH é tee ee[ereeeeen! 7 log log log log log log log log log
“qSOWTAMO] PUB .LaMOTT sete eeeeleneseees| teeeeees| og rl og rl og rl og rl og rl og rl og H+] og H+] og H+] og
uot L agteees|| Aap Ree Se AG S S S S S S S S S
teteeeerl ieee anes! 7 tesneens] og hl ® hl ® hl ® hl ® rl og rl og rl og rl og rl og
9T G € cane” = alt Se j T bite! j T j T j T j T j T j T j T
eeonereesr 9 eee eee Co aT |e eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee we eee eee
tees ened oy seveeeee| [ster z z z z z z z z z z
S
rH
GS

‘spnojo fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo asinoja fo as.
