tie 7 Oe beh -
| uy 7 ey 2 Ties e-. e -- @ue* eee a
ries r. on - eo o ae
Ss 7 ve Tees Fs’ = id < ; 5 4

r Ps _ ta Se = e 5 " 7
: - =< ae =e : > ae fae eo ame a
3 = si) = y y 7 5 0 ? a et Be ss 4 32 SS: Se .
: ’ et aeER, re = 4 aa Boh - ; 3 Bete
- . ; ag ’ " a ee = 4 » = ——s . : = Se
ies : Stee a3 : age aoe. 4 ¥%, y Leek i as a — - 4 . és - - x Ay ge
; : -. ; a ” Pies a, ae } . a ‘ 4 ‘i 1 h e. rod : ee ; : i: = ~
bh 5 a a 7 ee tn em! 3 4 : 7 is ee pow eZ my Bsn ‘ ?. a Fe eae =
= 4 ‘ oa | tN : " oe ited . ; er Se at : oe a Se. Hee
“ ~ < > "ge Pee es, a 2 hy f i ¢ 3 - i . a 3 f fie ae Se
_ boa bas _ 7 Sie ee a
te = = j = ; ‘ ‘ 4 ig eek

irr. C ; £ Ss

ie? = - b

s a Pie 7 *
eae : ee Dee ‘ ~
§ “2 ; a 7 > z
. ey . r " : ‘
"byapeiaes Sac) (aon Ph . ¥ wigs are :
pre. Te Tae - ; : > : ve) a
5 7 y : — $ r oe F ‘ s $ he $
ee e “ $ +4 = ae , S foo a <* :
4 ‘ = ‘ > t : ¥ iRe Sine ; = ‘
% eg ; 3 ‘ : 7 E
: . ; Ss : “oS 3
a a ; oy ie on Ce re ; Fea
: F x eS ae: - o > = 2 piece. ¢ Ses ar. :
$ . . eur “AR Caen ¢ oS aS ;
cae . f +. ‘ F : $ Sie ah
Sy) Ris fre Pe eS 3 f : ip £ fu ~ ‘yj ~ > ry a . . " NS
eels ee | fae ; a a ‘ = Area: * :- 2 = Oe ca tae wae pee >
Fos) ol . $ : Seo =Te) va 4 ie : ) 2 e he sg “ie
te Rik. Epos , ; : ; rte bate “3 5 . , : ‘agen’ ra
rn Ea wt see = , 5 . sor =. - 3 ;
a Se: sae Srey | rags ; : f Neate ee
° > f ‘ ‘ apes a >a 5 a
eR Fae — 2.2 is. Wee ty ~- 4 > a’ ian
{kel : 4 Bee: ‘how 5 3 pe Sa . 2 j
: : “a ‘ 2 Tr
25 zs 4 7 } + ‘
sate afox b pay oe Weir). ,

; sf

bt

-
‘ees
‘

.7

iy mu)
Pilla DA

*

+ oh eon
he

ee Tee. r
, a -" a y

-

s

vel

ve

PED

ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES
AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1908

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

1909
AB yd had No

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1908.

SMITHSONIAN INstTITUTION,
Washington, June 12, 1909.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the Annual Report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1908.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary.
Tit
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1908.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1908, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1908.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 3, 1907, and January 22 and February 12, 1908.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1908.

IV
CONTENTS.

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents ae

40)»  OKOYB MERCIA a a eo a Il

Generalgsubyectsio£ thevannualbneportie = ee a IV

CONTENTS MO fast kT ClO Ieee ee ees ee eee oe ee Ve Vv

TLSHBe OP [SD RES es Een Nee OR cl cl ee 7 |

Omer SsoLeihepinstiiunoOnsandsits) bran Chegmes == a= soe ee Ix
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

PIRES ep SiN CASO ea es TNS Eel gM tal Ya s eS 1
CY ayg) « TEES 2 CUTS aS 0 a a SB oS re ail
hey BOaArdvoEwves emt Sa ee ee ee eee NE Dd ee er al
PNG WaT CWS) MeN aN See ee al ee ee ee eee Pe
J ENUM ES a i a 4
Explorations and researches:

Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology_________________ 7
JACTEM UA ME AES e HG) Oe OE eee oe 8
Meteor crater of Canyon Diablo, Arizona_____________ 9
PAU AS ceil X10 CCGG © Mien tere eee ee we Td oe Be eee 10
Ceolosyaohethe sally sss ee ere es LE eee eee 10
Absohitegmedsurement Of sound.) ee ee ial
RecA CUlAtOnV OLA LONG WelchtsSes. = 9a ee ca ea 11
Properties of matter at temperature of liquid air__-__-________ 11
Boranicaleresenrchesi in) (Calitornig e222 se os ee ae 11
Deep-welleiemperatwresj =e = ee ee ee ee a oe 12
Investigations under the Hodgkins fund:
Hodgkins fund prize for essay on tuberculosis_________________ 12
Flow of air at high pressure through a nozzle_________________ 13
Studyvot the supper atmospheres. == 2 sk 14
ANTES CSm Olan Gale COMM. soe seen eee ee 14
Mechanicssotethemenrihss atmospheres. ee ee 15
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station____________________ ally
VEEL DUS TIO) OS Sa a ee eee 17%
Advisory committee on printing and publication_____________ Zit
DY OV) El Oya OS eS ye a ae Se SI cee a ED 21
Preservation of archeological sites________ HP yt 3 er A eg este 22
CasaGrandewrwinen nM: pAriZOMaa- = ea. 8 eer ee Se ee 5
MeSH ViErd ereN ait Om alle bent Keep eee ee See Oe oy ie Uk 23
CWOLTESWOMG Git c er memene ee ee et creer kre Oem eee a ee 24
Coneressesman dice] Corel tO iste emer eee Se 24
DSSS Exe UES MSY OS WS = eS a a et a ee ee 26

DNV EENO MONT he WM CTS TENG Ne I 27
INationalleG alll eriyar@ fe cAn ie ee eee Oe 28

BUCA UnOheAm ericame hth O10 Gy 2. ae ee ee ee ee 29

Me EMA On alles CMAN SCG jase = eee ee Se i a ee 30

aon ee AOOLO Stele ai keene ee bee ee 32

AASTHROIOLON SICAL OOS Oe Se I ee ee 33

Internationals Catalosueror Scientific) literatures. =2 == 3 =) see 34
VI “CONTENTS.

Page.

Appendix I. Report on the United States National Museum_____-_-____- 36

II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology____-------__- 44

Ii. Report on the International> Exchanges —--__ === === === === 53

IV. Report on the National Zoological Park-----_____________--~ 62

VY. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory.__--—-_-_--_-_____ 68

VWiesenortioneihe dul bTay= =) ea ea eee ee eee 73

VII. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_ 77

Vai RenoEtsonstnen publica GiOns2 ee — as as ae eee 79
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

PANCEION OL iMe nuns tly, Wh" 90S se22= secs eaeneace saci bemacecosices eons 87

Receipts and disbursements, July 1, 1907, to June 30, 1908 -.........-------- 88

pummary OF appropriavions by Coneress-2 sos. -0saseccsecceecenastacscee 90

PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD OF REGENTS.
Meetings of December 3, 1907, January 22 and February 12, 1908....-.....--- 92
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

Acts of Sixtieth Congress, first session, relative to Smithsonian Institution and
TRPSLTCTRTI EY Gd gC eRe apes ey RL Rep gs a SIE py a Sn A ae eS 102

GENERAL APPENDIX.
The present status of military aeronautics, by Maj. George O. Squier, U.S.A. 117

Aviation in France in 1908, by Pierre-Roger Jourdain ..........-2.-.----.-- 145
Mirciess telophony, .by RK: A. Fessenden: 22:2. 2s-.ccsccceeeesoceceecacce 161
Muowrelepraphy, by ElenricArmagnat.. 2245082 252 cc Jactiserececiose cack See 197
The gramophone and the mechanical recording and reproduction of musical

Pema by evel Ni eddie aot kee ten sts Nl 5 Ian een ane 209
On the light thrown by recent investigations on electricity on the relation be-

meen matter and ether: by J.) Ji: Thomson’ =. 522.22 225 42eesc ene eee 234
Development of general and physical chemistry during the last forty years, by

ENCES fos pts ik hen eee CR een ae 2 AER a eae Rh 245
Development of technological chemistry during the last forty years, by O. N.

ABE NG ee ae eR A mtg eo AE REINS + TE Rc aN ny PONE a 255
Twenty years’ progress in explosives, by Oscar Guttmann...............___.. 263
Recent researches in the structure of the universe, by J. C. Kapteyn......_.- 301
Solar vortices and magnetism in sun spots, by C. G. Abbot..........-..._..- 321
Climatic variations: their extent and causes, by J. W. Gregory......-....--- 339
Pramumsand. peolopy: ‘hy Joba Joly= 2-2. << sss5.. eu se eee ocx a ee ee 355
An outline review of the geology of Peru, by George I. Adams ...._.-_- ea ee 385
Our present knowledge of the earth, by E. Wiechert ............- Soe Sore 431
The antarctic question— Voyages since 1898, by J. Machat................... 451
Some geographical aspects of the Nile, by Capt. H. G. Lyons...........-.-.. 481
Heredity, and the origin of species, by Daniel Trembly MacDougalee 2. 2 2ee 505
Cactaceze of northeastern and central Mexico, together with a synopsis of the

principal Mexican genera, by William Edwin Safford..................... 525
Angler fishes: their kinds and ways, by Theodore Gill..____............... 565
Ene pIros er india, by Douglas Dewar. ooo nues. oon scant cece eccces eee. 617
The evolution of the elephant, by Richard 8. Lull.......................... 641
Excavations at Boghaz-Keuiin thesummer of 1907, by Hugo Winckler and 0.

POUR PEIT toss oo ee aw Sie ee A eT Ee Ee yee Sy ee ee ee a 67
@rousriain Greece, by Ronald Rors\2. 625.2. -2-an-eucc en ecu ceo 697
Carl von Linné as a geologist, by A. G. Nathorst ........................... Tl
Life and work of Lord Kelvin, by Silvanus P. ROM pots core sateen eo aoe 745
LIST OF

MILITARY AERONAUTICS (Squier) :

Plates
Plates
Plates 5
Plates 7
Plates
late SrER20\ 2 a a eS
Plates
WIRELESS
den) :

TELEPHONY (TI essen-

Pigties a2 soa S. See ele
PATS RA elon ea pes oy
Plates 6-4
Plates
12h EW r(eks 8 Mts ree
Plates

THE GRAMOPHONE (Reddie) :
CDV aU eel iE le ee
Wlatem2 ee ses tee Oe eee be
PROGRESS IN EXPLOSIVES (Gutt-
mann):
Plates 1
Pate Swe aa ek es re eee
Plates 5
Plates 7
Bat eR Oates ee Se at
SOLAR VORTICES AND MAGNETISM
IN SuN Sports (Abbot) :
TAOS will) ea cht ae ae ee
TAGS eee a is a eed
TOS Ae by sales 2 at ie he
URANIUM AND GEOLOGY (Joly) :
late alka ek 68 ee BS
GEOLOGY oF PERU (Adams) :
Plates 1-5

PLATES.

ANTARCTIC QUESTION (Machat) :
(eae tele ones fal Se
GEOGRAPHICAL ASPECTS OF NILE
(Lyons) :
Plates 1, 2
Plates 3, 4

HEREDITY AND ORIGIN OF SPECIES
(MacDougal) :
Plate 1
CACTACEZ OF Mexico (Safford) :
2G We a ee as ee
TA Cte ete ea Os Set a
PAROS 3 Annee
Plates ie Gees 08d ane
PIAS aia rote ee Pee
Plate O Rha mieael ag nee

Pate Saal 2 elise See
PAAtES Ae iy Soe eS aes

EVOLUTION OF ELEPHANT (Lull):

EXCAVATIONS IN BOGHAZ-IKQrUI
(Winckler and Puchstein) :

Tarte eles Seette 28 ee ee

ACS igh pa ser te eee 2

BlatessG—O rsa Ses ee

IESE ait pil (ee ae ee ee ee 2

THE KELVIN (Thomp-
son):
1 BPI tel gs eee eae a a eA
WorK oF HENRI
(Broca) :
lente vel eee ceh eee eS

LECTURE

BECQUEREL
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JUNE 30, 1908.

Presiding officer ex officio—THroDORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United States.

Chancellor.—MELVILLE W. FULLER, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:

THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United States.

CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, Vice-President of the United States.

MELVILLE W. Futter, Chief Justice of the United States.

Eiinv Root, Secretary of State.

GEORGE B. CorTELYOU, Secretary of the Treasury.

WitiiaAmM H. Tart, Secretary of War..

CHARLES J. BONAPARTE, Attorney-General.

GEORGE VON L. MEYER, Postmaster-General.

Victor H. METCALF, Secretary of the Navy.

JAMES R, GARFIELD, Secretary of the Interior.

JAMES WILSON, Secretary of Agriculture.

OscarR 8S. STRAUS, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
Regents of the Institution:

MELVILLE W. Futter, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.

CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, Vice-President of the United States.
SHELBY M. CuLtom, Member of the Senate.
Henry Casor Lopcr, Member of the Senate.
A. O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.
JOHN DaALzeLL, Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES R. MAnn, Member of the House of Representatives.
WILLIAM M. Howarp, Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES B. ANGELL, citizen of Michigan.
ANDREW D. WHITE, citizen of New York.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, citizen of Washington, D. C.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES F. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.

Executive Committee —J. B. HENDERSON, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,

DALZELL,

Secretary of the Institution—CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Assistant Secretaries.—RicHARD RATHBUN; CyRUS ADLER.

Chief Clerk.—HARRY W. DORSEY.

Accountant and Disbursing Agent.—W. I. ADAMS.

Editor.—A, Howarpb CLARK.

Ix

JOHN
x THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Assistant Secretary in Charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative Assistant—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head Curators.—F. W. TRUE, G. P. MERRILL, OTIS T. MASON.

Curators.—Cyrus ADLER, Ray S. Basster, A. Howarp CLARK, F. V. COVILLE,
W. H. Datt, B. W. Evermann, J. M. Fuint, U. S. N. (retired), W. ET;
Hoimes, L. O. Howarp, RicHarD RATHBUN, Ropert Ripeway, LEONHARD
STEJNEGER, CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Associate Curators.—J. N. Rosr, DAvID WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art.—W. H. HoLMEs.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents.—RANDOLPH I. GEARE.

Superiniendent of Construction and Labor.—J. 8S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE.

Registrar._S. C. Brown.

BUREAU OR AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Chief—W. H. HOLMES.

Ethnologists—J. WALTER Frewkes, J. N. B. Hewitt, F. W. Hopcr, JAMES
Mooney, MatitpA Coxe STEVENSON, JOHN R. SWANTON, Cyrus THOMAS.

Philologist.—FRANZ Boas.

Tllustrator.—Dr LANCEY W. GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. |

Assistant Secretary in Charge.—CyrRus ADLER.
Chief Clerk.—k. V. BERRY.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER,
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. E. Fowte, Jr.

BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

Assistant Secretary in Charge.-—Cyrus ADLER.
Chief Assistant.—L. C. GUNNELL,
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1908,

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the oper-
ations of the Institution during the year ending June 30, 1908,
including the work placed under its direction by Congress in the
United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the regional bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the excavations on the Casa
Grande Reservation.

In the body of this report there is given a general account of the
affairs of the Institution, while the appendix presents a more detailed
statement by those in direct charge of the different branches of the
work. Independently of this the operations of the National Museum
and the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully treated in separate
volumes. The scientific work of the Astrophysical Observatory,
covering its researches for five years, is described in Volume IT of the
Annals of the Observatory, published during the year.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THE ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was created an establishment. Its statutory members are
“the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads
of the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice-President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex-officio members, three members of
the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

citizens, “ two of whom shall be residents of the city of Washington,
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of
them of the same State.”

It is with regret that I have to record the resignation of the Hon.
Richard Olney on January 20, 1908. Mr. Olney served on the Board
of Regents as a citizen of Massachusetts for eight years.

The following appointments and reappointments of Regents were
made during the year: By appointment of the Speaker, December
9, 1907, Representatives John Dalzell, James R. Mann, and William
M. Howard, to succeed themselves; by appointment of the President
of the Senate on January 14, 1908, Senator Augustus O. Bacon to
succeed himself; by joint resolution of Congress approved F ebruary
24, 1908, the Hon. Charles F. Choate, jr., 2 Massachusetts, 1 in place
of the Hon. Richard Olney, resigned.

The board met on December 3, 1907, January 22, 1908, and Febru-
ary 12, 1908. The proceedings of Hees meetings will be printed as
customary in the annual report of the board to Congress.

ADMINISTRATION.

With the aid rendered by the several experienced and efficient
staffs the administrative work of the Institution and the several
branches of the government service committed to its care has pro-
gressed in a satisfactory manner during the year. The affairs of the
Institution have received prompt administrative consideration, and
a united effort has been made to carry out vigorously and conscien-
tiously the fundamental purposes of the Institution, “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge.”

Under the general supervision of the Secretary the extended and
complicated operations of the National Museum have been efficiently
managed by the assistant secretary in charge of ~the National
Museum, Mr. Richard Rathbun. Dr. Cyrus Adler, assistant secre-
tary in charge of library and exchanges, has also rendered important
service in connection with the regional bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature and in the general business of
the Institution. The affairs of the Bureau of American Ethnology
have continued in charge of Mr. W. H. Holmes, Mr. C. G. Abbot
has advanced the work of the Astrophysical Observatory, and Dr.
Frank Baker has superintended the administration of the National
Zoological Park.

The Secretary has availed himself of the assistance of the officers
in charge of the various branches and conferred freely with them
during the year. Certain changes in the routine of business in the
Institution proper and in the several branches have been approved
upon recommendation of the committee on business methods.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

The routine work of the Institution proper and of the several
branches of the government service under its direction was examined
in detail during the year, including the methods of correspondence,
the handling of freight, the purchase and issuance of property and
supphes, the distribution of publications, the receipt and disburse-
ment of moneys, and rules and regulations affecting leaves of absence
and other matters relating to the personnel. In order that the most
modern advances in office methods might be applied to the Institution
where necessary, a subcommittee of the committee on business methods
was directed to visit the executive departments and local commercial
establishments, and the report of this subcommittee was of material
assistance in suggesting needed modifications in the transaction of
routine business under the Institution. Among the most important
improvements in this direction were certain changes in the accession-
ing of material received by the National Museum for examination
and report. The general effect of the recommendations of the com-
mittee has been to reduce the amount of work and to facilitate the
dispatch of business.

The advisory committee on printing and publication, appointed
in pursuance of executive order of January 20, 1906, which com-
mittee is composed of representatives from the Institution and its
branches, has rendered valuable assistance in scrutinizing manu-
scripts proposed for publication and blank forms used in the work
of the Institution and its branches.

Appointments to the staffs of the National Museum, the Inter-
national Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National °
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, and the regional
bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature have
been made from time to time as vacancies occurred, in accordance
with the civil-service rules and requirements; these establishments,
with the exception of the last named, having been placed under the
operation of the civil-service law on June 30, 1896, the International
Catalogue having later been subjected to the jurisdiction of the com-
mission. No important changes have been made in the routine
affecting appointments, except that by executive orders the rules were
modified to permit transfers of persons serving for a period of six
months ending within one year from the date of proposed transfer,
and the requirements of examination were allowed to be waived in
the discretion of the Civil Service Commission. The privilege of
making emergency appointments, pending the permanent appoint-
ment of eligibles through certification, was discontinued, likewise by
executive order, and all temporary appointments are required now
to be approved in advance by the commission. Such appointments
are no longer limited arbitrarily to six months, but may, under cer-
tain circumstances, be extended beyond that term. Recommendations
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

of appointing officers affecting the method of appointment to posi-
tions in the classified service are, by executive order of February 20,
1908, required to be forwarded, with a full statement of the reasons
therefor, through the Civil Service Commission, to the President.

The current business of the Institution has been conducted in a
prompt and effective manner, and it is gratifying to note that no
arrearages in the work of the government branches under its direc-
tion were necessary to be reported in the quarterly statements to the
President and in the annual statement which, in accordance with
law, accompanied the estimates transmitted to Congress.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

Begiuestwolismithsons WS4Gs ee oo. ee ee ee ee $515, 169. 00
ReENduaryecaCyIOL SNILENSON, slSOte= === = ae ans oe ee 26, 210. 63
WEHOSIL LOM Savings Ob INCOME I SOt == eee 108, 620. 3
Bequest of James Hamilton, WSio2=- 2-3 2 $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
——_——— 2, 000. 00
BeEquestnore Simeon Habel, 1 S808. lass ee eee 500. 00
Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881_.+__________________ 51, 500. 00
GitiwOhennomaseG. ELOd2Icin Saal Olle = aw ee eee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
DEPOSI rOMesaAyIn eS Of income 190322 ae eae ee ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins_____________--_-_______ 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury_______ 944, 918. 69

Held at the Smithsonian Institution.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Com-
pany (par value), part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins_______ 42, 000. 00

Mora permanente tundas=2-e ee a eee = apes 986, 918. 69

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$63,372.96, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent fund,
$58,262.52; proceeds from claims in litigation, $300, and from mis-
cellaneous sources, $4,810.44; all of which was deposited in the Treas-
ury of the United States to the credit of the current account of the
Institution,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

With the balance of $24,592.01 on July 1, 1907, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $87,964.97. The disbursements, which
are given in detail in the annual report of the executive committee,
amounted to $69,198.56, leaving a balance of $18,766.41 on deposit
June 30, 1908, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement of
the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1908:

IMtern a ton aieet xehan Ses 22 aati Se oe ee eee ee Pewee eS OU

PACTNY GT Gea Tm Us ETC] 0) yet le es CO ee See de 40, 000

ySNISHETECO) OY a 7SAU CEE (Q) SSN EN EEN 5 0 Cte a aS sp ye eM 13, 000
National Museum:

DESO RS NITH GST TS Css eNO TGS TOIT Si en a 20, 000

Featingnan Olio ht ime a eee RYE IES aL ok he 18, 000

Preservation of collections__________--_ fas Pa Apne ester WA cae 190, 000

J ERGO SS eee i el a ee ne 2, 000

VEX OKS EE Eg oY 2 RT a gE Pe ee et 500

FLeNtpeOL mWOLKSNOp Sas ee me eee ee ae ee Ta ee eRe als OS, a TE F 4, 580

TSS eT KO THTaVeS TREY OR ISS fe a a ee 15, 000

IND Ona AOOLOSiCalle ean ke = = ss Os Ee ee eee eae AO OOO

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__________________-_ 5, 000

Protection and excavation, ruin of Casa Grande, Arizona___________ 3, 000

iNew DULldine tor sNationall Minseuim sees os es eee eee 1, 250, 000

CUES EEN) | Sse at eae SG RN a ee ee ee ere ee 1, 703, OSO

Estimates.—The estimates forwarded to Congress in behalf of the
Government branches of the Institution and the appropriations based
thereon for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909, are as follows:

Estimates. ppUOuTes
HaTen ALON Alb CHANGES oem eee a4 saeco coe sm hase ce aa cee soem nev eer ations $32, 000 $32, 000
AMO Cane unin OLO Mess sea ne eee ees at a aee seis cackisceree ote ccs oancseee oes 52, 000 42, 000
Reimbursement Ota ell dc7COze ae saecrcieceroceoeenenitocecee ses cer sseeee scree O2D ile wsiercesstcoese
Astrophysical O DSCEV ALON: wc stents ese n= wacisl sc aiae <\eleisieieicie sie stele ctniesloceisige swicis = 20, 000 13, 000
National Museum:
Maciivumenat Gutx hres tesserae seias eee cee sel sam niseine ee nee seems eis ase Sele = 2200, 000 50, 000
Het hineanaliehtinss seo sts nce = obe clases sees ee cio ea caese ae seeine 25, 000 22, 000
PreservawonloLlcollectiOnsy=--po= see eee ee soe sos see aeons aacemoavees oss 190, 000 190, 000
BOOKS eae sete nc oa ere ele a ee ae eae eee we cate tecks see eesctwecbecics 2,000 2, 000
PEER Se oe re oS EE ra tiey ea Ned hit ke oe ie eas 500 | 500
RCH OL WOLKSNOpSaateo ete sees ae ae oe cee eaeee a Ac inn sae ise oe Sema s ce see 4,580 | 4,580
BUG SNC PAIES ee cen ewe eee pecciys cst ae ceases acecisiacleceaetiococessicee ce 15, 000 15, 000
Nations ueallenvwiol Arter ee sees saree sac catse cere anak cisoseesseccesuesceles GOOCON |S -eecaesacas
NeutionaliZoolopicaleParkces car cose can cent sacs secen lec tbe Somes ee cmoesnceccues 110, 000 | 95, 000
Readjustment of DOUNGaATIeS eet see cee resem eee seein sles mic wie teens cies < 40K 000A ies Semcon
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature ..............-----.---------+ 5, 000 5, 000
TCSII Ry ar Oe ea eR A ae eee a 2 ae | 756, 605 471, 080
|

“Owing to delay in completion of the new National Museum building the request was
made before the Appropriations Committee that $50,000 be appropriated under this item,
which was done,
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMi#THSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

One of the important questions that comes up for consideration
annually is that of submitting estimates to the Congress for the sup-
port of the several branches placed by the Congress under the adminis-
trative charges of the Smithsonian Institution. As the executive offi-
cer of the Institution it is my duty to give careful consideration to the
administration of the federal branches under its charge and to ascer-
tain as far as possible the needs of each branch, and to see that the
conclusions are clearly formulated in the estimates and later pre-
sented orally or in printing as the committees in the Congress may
desire.

In considering estimates there is necessarily a decided difference in
the point of view of the administrative officers in charge of the sev-
eral branches of the Institution and the members of the congres-
sional appropriation committees. The former see clearly what in
their judgment is needed to make the particular work or department
in their charge effective and a credit to the American people who own
and sustain it. The members of the committee have a general idea
of the character of the work being done and its relative importance
in comparison with similar work elsewhere, and time is taken for
hearings and consideration of individual objects. In deciding on the
amount to be appropriated the committee has also in mind the present
and prospective condition of the Treasury, the total amount that in
their judgment should be appropriated, and how much can be safely
assigned to each object to be appropriated for in the act under con-
sideration.

For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909, the estimates submitted
exceeded the appropriations by $285,525. Before the time of the
hearing by the subcommittee on appropriations it became evident
that the new National Museum building would not be completed in
time to make use of the estimated $200,000 for furniture and fixtures,
so at the hearing the committee was requested to approve of $50,000,
which was done. The items of $40,000 for the readjustment of the
boundaries of the National Zoological Park and $60,000 for altera-
tions in the Smithsonian building to provide for the exhibition of
the art collections of the Government were omitted by the committee
along with some minor increases in the estimates.

In making up the estimates for the fiscal year 1910 the Secretary
had to consider, among other matters, the following:

1. The estimates submitted by the officers in charge of the several
branches.

2. The reasons submitted for asking an increase in appropriations.

3. The rejection by the Congress of most of the increased estimates
for the fiscal year 1909.

4. His duty as an administrative officer to submit to the Congress
such estimates as in his judgment would be needed to properly pro-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

vide for carrying on the work of the federal branches of the Institu-
tion.

Not knowing the conditions or reasons for the rejection of certain
estimates for 1909, and feeling that the committees and the Congress
had approved of the general plan of operation of the several federal
branches of the Institution, I have prepared estimates for the fiscal
year 1910 on the basis of securing effectiveness in administration ;
creditable results both in exhibition, research, and publication; and a
natural development so as to compare favorably in the final result
with national institutions of the same type in other countries. For
instance, I have the feeling that if our Government undertakes to
establish and maintain a national zoological park at the capital city
it should not rank, as it does now, fifth or sixth among parks of the
same type elsewhere. A carefully considered plan has been formu-
lated for the development of the Zoological Park, and the estimates
have been made in accordance with it. The same has been done for
the National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology.

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

The resources of the Smithsonian Institution are at present too
limited to permit of large grants for extensive explorations or inves-
tigations, but as far as the income allows aid is given in various lines
of research work and it is sometimes found possible to engage in ex-
peditions likely to accomplish important results. If funds could be
obtained to be administered under the Institution, the scientific work
of the Government might often be supplemented by original re-
searches of a character that would hardly be undertaken by the
Government, and which would be of great service to humanity and
to science.

Through the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and the Astrophysical Observatory the Institution has been enabled
to carry on various biological, ethnological, and astrophysical re-
searches, which will be found fully described elsewhere in this report.

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY,

In my last report reference was made to studies of the older sedi-
mentary rocks of the North American Continent which I have been
carrying on for the past twenty years. This work was continued in
the Canadian Rockies during the field season of 1907. Early in July
a camp outfit was secured at Field, British Columbia, and work be-
gun on Mount Stephen. Subsequently sections were studied and
measured at Castle Mountain, west of Banff, Alberta; at Lake Lou-
ise, south of Laggan, Alberta; and on Mount Bosworth, on the Con-
tinental Divide near Hector, British Columbia. Upward of 20,000

88292—sm 1908——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMETHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

feet of strata were carefully examined and measured, and collections
of fossils and rocks made from many localities. It was found that
the Cambrian section included over 12,000 feet of sandstones, shales,
and limestones, and that the three great divisions of the Cambrian—
the Lower, Middle, and Upper—were represented in the Bow River
series and the Castle Mountain group. Characteristic fossils were
found in each division. At the close of the fiscal year papers were
in type® describing the sections measured and giving lists of the
faunas obtained at the various horizons. The field season of 1908
will be spent in Montana, British Columbia, and Alberta in an at-
tempt to correlate the pre-Cambrian formations of Montana studied
in 1905, with those described by Willis and Daly in the vicinity of
the Forty-ninth parailel.

AERIAL NAVIGATION.

Within the past year there has been a renewed interest in experi-
ments in aerial navigation, to which this Institution, through my pred-
ecessor, Mr. Langley, made notable contributions. Toward the end
of the year the demand for literature on the subject so entirely
exhausted the supply of papers on hand, that a special edition of some
of Mr. Langley’s more popular memoirs was issued. It is gratifying
to me to be able to say that his pioneer work in heavier-than-air
machines, resulting as it did in the actual demonstration of the possi-
bility of mechanical flight, has now received universal recognition.

Besides numerous popular papers, Mr. Langley wrote two technical
works relating to the general subject of aerodromics, which form
parts of an incomplete volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge. The record of his experiments from 1893 to 1905 was
kept by him partly in manuscript form and largely in the shape of
voluminous notes and wastebooks. These have been turned over to
his principal assistant in this work, Mr. Charles M. Manly, who has
been for some time engaged in preparing them for publication and
adding such necessary information, especially on the engineering
side, as comes within the immediate purview of Mr. Manly’s work.
It is a source of regret that the memoir has not yet been completed
for publication, but I hope that during this year it will be possible
for the Institution to issue the volume, thus bringing to a conclusion
a record of Mr. Langley’s original and epoch-making contributions

“Canadian Alpine Journal, Vol. I, No. 2, 1908, pp. 2832-248: Mount Stephen
rocks and fossils.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. LIII, Cambrian Geology and
Paleontology, No. 5, 1908, pp. 167-280: Cambrian sections of the Cordilleran
area.

> Bull. Geol. Soc. America, yol. 17, 1906, pp. 1-28: Algonkian formations of
northwestern Montana.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

to a science and an art which bid fair to engage the attention of man-
kind for many years to come.

METEOR CRATER OF CANYON DIABLO, ARIZONA.

An investigation of the remarkable crater-like depression at Coon
Butte, near Canyon Diablo, Arizona, made in 1907 by Dr. G. P.
Merrill, head curator of geology in the National Museum, aided by
a grant from the Smithsonian Institution, was briefly mentioned in
my last year’s report and a full account appeared in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections (quarterly issue) under date of January
27, 1908. The “crater” is some three-fourths of a mile in diameter
and 500 feet in depth in a region of undisturbed sedimentary rocks
and remote from volcanoes. The object of the study was to deter-
mine, if possible, whether the crater was caused by volcanic action,
as assumed by some investigators, or due to the impact of a mass of
meteoric iron as asserted by others.

From the available evidence Doctor Merrill concluded that the
crater could not have been formed by volcanic action, all the observed
phenomena being of a superficial nature. Some 300 feet of over-
lying limestone and 500 feet of sandstone have been shattered as
by some powerful blow, and the quartz particles in the sandstone
in part fused, indicating a very high degree of heat. The deeper-
lying sandstone, however, is entirely unchanged. These facts abso-
lutely preclude the formation of the crater by any deep-seated
agency, and forces the conclusion that it resulted from the impact
of a stellar body.

No record has been found of a meteoric fall comparable with this,
the largest known meteorites, such as that from Cape York, Green-
Jand, and the enormous irons from Oregon, having fallen under such
conditions as to scarcely bury themselves. The nearest approach to the
Canyon Diablo occurrence was that at Knyahinya, Hungary, where
a 660-pound stone penetrated the ground to a depth of 11 feet.
No meteoric mass of sufficient size to have made this enormous crater
has been brought to ight, but it is thought there still remains the
possibility of its having become dissipated through the heat developed
by its impact while traveling at a speed of many miles a second.

In his report Doctor Merrill goes very thoroughly into details. He
has secured many specimens of the meteoric irons and their associa-
tions from the locality, which are deposited in the National Museum.
The specimens include a hitherto unrecognized type of meteoric iron
and a peculiar form of metamorphism in the siliceous sandstone of
the region.

Mining operations carried on in the crater afforded special oppor-
tunity for this research. These operations were discontinued during
the winter, but their resumption in May, 1908, presented a second
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

opportunity for the observation of the unique phenomena at the
erater, and Doctor Merrill was authorized to proceed again to Ari-
zona to be present during this second, and probably final, series of
drillings. The greatest depth reached during his stay at the crater
was 842 feet, and the results of the examination of the ejectamenta
thus secured confirmed the former conclusion. Several boxes of
specimens bearing on the subject were forwarded to the Institution,
where they will be held for future reference and study.

ALASKAN EXPEDITION,

In my last report mention was made of an expedition to be made
to the Yukon country in Alaska for the collection of the remains of
large extinct vertebrates, particularly mammals. A Smithsonian
expedition had been made to this region in the summer of 1904 by
Mr. Maddren, the results of which were published by the Institution
in 1905. The present expedition of 1907 was in charge of Mr. C. W.
Gilmore of the National Museum. The results of the explorations
have been published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Mr. Gilmore was not successful in finding what was most desired,
a fairly complete skeleton of a mammoth, but the expedition was by
no means*barren of results. He found that scattered remains of
Pleistocene animals occur throughout the unglaciated region of
Alaska and adjacent Canadian territory in the black muck accumu-
lated in gulches and the valleys of the smaller streams, in the fine
elevated clays of the Yukon silts, and Kowak clays, and in the
more recent fluvial and alluvial deposits. Some of the specimens are
so well preserved that they could not have traveled far from the
original place of interment, while many bones are broken, abraded,
and waterworn. Mr. Gilmore gives a list of the various genera and
species of extinct vertebrates thus far reported from Alaska, followed
by a brief review with a number of illustrations. He believes that
when more perfect material is available it will be found, probably
in all instances, to be quite distinct from the living forms. The
skull of an Ovébos was found sufficiently complete to warrant its
separation from the living form O. moschatus, to which nearly all
musk-ox material from this region had previously been referred.

GEOLOGY OF THE ALPS.

The investigation by Mr. Bailey Willis of the current theories of
Alpine structure, under the grant approved in 1907, was successful
in offering opportunities for consultation with leading European
geologists, among whom were Rothpletz, Suess, Lugeon, Margerie,
and Saccord. In cooperation with several distinguished students of
the great problems of the Alps, Mr. Willis made detailed studies of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

critical districts, and was thus enabled to compare opposing theories
by object lessons on the ground. Mr. Willis’s full revort is expected
early in 1909.

ABSOLUTE MEASUREMENT OF SOUND.

Dr. A. G. Webster announces the approaching completion of his
research on the measurement of sound which has been in progress
for two years past. The investigation comprises an exhaustive treat-
ment of the theory of the production of sound, with a descriptien of
a standard source, the transmission of sound through the air as
modified by the effect of the ground, and its measurement by a
receiving instrument. A description of experiments confirming the
theory of Doctor Webster will be included in his finished report, with
several practical applications, such as the examination of the sounds
of speech, the diagnosis of deafness, the improvement of fog signals,
and the testing of materials for the insulation of sound.

RECALCULATION OF ATOMIC WEIGHTS.

In February, 1908, Prof. F. W. Clarke, chairman of the Interna-
tional Commission on Atomic Weights, was authorized to begin the
preparation of a third edition of his work on that subject, with the
aid of a grant from the Smithsonian Institution. The second edition
of Professor Clarke’s Atomic Weights was published in 1897, since
which time the data on this subject have so largely increased as to
render a new edition desirable. Some time will necessarily elapse
before the completion of the work.

PROPERTIES OF MATTER AT TEMPERATURE OF LIQUID AIR.

In October, 1907, a Smithsonian grant was approved on behalf
of Prof. E. L. Nichols, of Cornell University, for the continuation
of his experiments on the properties of matter at the temperature
of liquid air. Reports of the progress of this research are to be made
from time to time in the recognized journals of physics and, at the
completion of the research, a memoir describing the investigation
will be submitted to the Smithsonian Institution for consideration
as to publication. It is believed that the prompt announcement of
results in the way mentioned will be an immediate advantage to
students, and that their publication as a whole by the Institution
will also prove of great service.

BOTANICAL RESEARCHES IN CALIFORNIA.

A moderate grant has been made to Miss Alice Eastwood from the
Smithsonian fund for the critical field study and collection of the spe-
cies aud genera of the plants secured at the type locality, Santa Bar-
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

bara, Cal., by Thomas Nuttall, and published by him in 1888 to 1843.
Some of these species are now well known, but others have never been
collected and arranged since they were found by Nuttall, and several
are known to be misunderstood. The collection Miss Eastwood is
now making will be valuable for the series in the herbarium of the
National Museum.

DEEP-WELL TEMPERATURES.

A moderate Smithsonian grant was approved on behalf of Dr.
William Hallock, of Columbia University, to assist in the investiga-
tion of temperatures in a deep well near Oakland, Md., for purposes
of geological research.

INVESTIGATIONS UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

T have given a good deal of consideration to the use of that por-
tion of the Hodgkins fund devoted to the increase and diffusion of
more exact knowledge of the atmospheric air in relation to the wel-
fare of man. While much valuable work has been done under this
fund, it seems to me that it would be more in consonance with the
ideas of the founder, if at least a portion of it might be employed
in some way to aid in the knowledge of the prevention of disease
and its cure. I have been in correspondence with several specialists
and hope to be able to initiate some useful investigations along these

lines.
HODGKINS FUND PRIZE FOR ESSAY ON TUBERCULOSIS.

Under date of February 3, 1908, the Institution issued a circular
announcing a prize of $1,500 for the best treatise “On the relation
of atmospheric air to tuberculosis ” that should be offered at the inter-
national congress on tuberculosis, to be held in Washington from
September 21 to October 12, 1908. The circular reads as follows:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—HODGKINS-FUND PRIZE.

In October, 1891, Thomas George Hodgkins, esq., of Setauket, N. Y., made a
donation to the Smithsonian Institution the ingome from a part of which was
to be devoted to “ the increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge in regard
to the nature and properties of atmospheric air in connection with the welfare
of man.” In furtherance of the donor’s wishes, the Smithsonian Institution
has from time to time offered prizes, awarded medals, made grants for inves-
tigations, and issued publications.

In connection with the approaching international congress on tuberculosis,
which will be held in Washington, September 21 to October 12, 1908, a prize
of $1,500 is offered for the best treatise “On the relation of atmospheric air to
tuberculosis.” Memoirs: having relation to the cause, spread, prevention, or
cure of tuberculosis are included within the general terms of the subject.

Any memoir read before the international congress on tuberculosis, or sent to
the Smithsonian Institution or to the secretary-general of the congress before
its close, namely, October 12, 1908, will be considered in the competition.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

The memoirs may be written in English, French, German, Spanish, or Italian.
They should be submitted either in manuscript or typewritten copy, or if in
type, printed as manuscript. If written in German they should be in Latin
script. They will be examined and the prize awarded by a committee ap-
pointed by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in conjunction with
the officers of the international congress on tuberculosis.

Such memoirs must not have been published prior to the congress. The
Smithsonian Institution reserves the right to publish the treatise to which the
prize is awarded.

No condition as to the length of the treatises is established, it being expected
that the practical results of important investigations will be set forth as convine-
ingly and tersely as the subject will permit.

The right is reserved to award no prize if in the judgment of the committee
no contribution is offered of sufficient merit to warrant such action.

Memoirs designed for consideration should be addressed to either ‘“ The
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., U. S. A.” or to “Dr. John S.
Fulton, secretary-general of the international congress on tuberculosis, 714
Colorado Building, Washington, D. C., U. S. A.” Further information, if de-
sired by persons intending to become competitors, will be furnished on

application.
CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

As a committee to award this prize the following gentlemen have
consented to serve: Dr. William H. Welch, of Johns Hopkins, chair-
man; Dr. John S. Fulton, secretary-general of the congress; Dr.
Simon Flexner, director, Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research,
New York; Dr. George M. Sternberg, Surgeon-General, U. S. Army,
retired; Dr. Hermann Biggs, New York department of health; Dr.
George Dock, of the University of Michigan; and Dr. William M.
Davis, of Harvard.

FLOW OF AIR AT HIGH PRESSURE THROUGH A NOZZLE.

The inquiry to determine the cooling effect of the nozzle expansion
of air for large pressure differences, which has been conducted by
Prof. W. P. Bradley, of Wesleyan University, with the aid of a grant
from the Hodgkins fund of the Institution, is announced as nearing
completion. The investigation was intended specifically to determine
whether the cooling process is due to the Joule-Thomson effect or to
the performance of external work by the expanding air in pushing
back the atmosphere from before the nozzle. The results of the in-
quiry make it clear that pressure is an important factor and that the
cooling effect increases very rapidly indeed as the initial temperature
falls. Professor Bradley is now engaged in an exact mathematical
discussion of this research.

As to the apparatus employed, an interchanger of the Hampton
type was so constructed, in vertical sections, that the amount of
interchanger surface in actual use could be varied at will, from noth-
ing to more than enough to induce liquefaction. In this manner it
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

was possible to maintain the initial temperature constant, within one-
third of a degree, at any desired point between +20° and —120°, and
the final temperature similarly constant between +-20° and the tem-
perature of liquefaction. The temperatures were measured by resist-
ance thermometers placed close to the valves in the high and low
pressure circuits. The pressures employed range from 500 pounds to
3,000 pounds. The expansion was exclusively to one atmosphere.
The inquiry is of interest as related to the functioning of air
liquefiers in which the air is throttled by a valve and expands without
performing external work, in the usual sense of that expression.

STUDY OF THE UPPER ATMOSPHERE.

A further grant from the Hodgkins fund was made to Prof. A.
Lawrence Rotch, director of the Blue Hill Meteorological Observa-
tory, to aid in the completion of his experiments with ballons-sondes
at St. Louis. This was accomplished in October and November, 1907,
under the direction of Mr. S. P. Fergusson.

The object of these latest ascensions, 21 in number, was to supply
data for the high atmosphere during the autumn, a season when
there are few observations, and also to establish a comparison with
the results obtained simultaneously in Europe on the international
term days in October and November. Professor Rotch reports that
all but two of the instruments used in these ascensions were recov-
ered, and an examination of the record sheets indicates generally the
presence, at an altitude exceeding 8 miles, of the isothermal, or rela-
tively warm stratum, which was found somewhat lower in summer.
For example, on October 8 the minimum temperature of 90° F. below
zero was found at a height of 47,600 feet, whereas at the extreme alti-
tude reached—namely, 54, 100 feet—the “queens had risen to 72°
F. below zero. Similarly, on October 10 the lowest temperature of
80° F. below zero occurred at 39,700 feet, while 69° F. below zero was
recorded at 49,200 feet, the limit of this ascension, showing that the
temperature inversion had come down about 8,000 feet in two days.

The prevailing drift of the balloons during the autumn of 1907 was
from the northwest, while in previous years they traveled more from
the west. A description of the methods employed in launching 77
ballons-sondes from St. Louis and a discussion of the results obtained
will soon appear in the Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of
Harvard College.

ATR SACS OF THE PIGEON.

For several years there have been in progress under the general
direction of Prof. von Lendenfeld, of the University of Prague, aided
by grants from the Hodgkins find various investigations bearing
upon animal flight. The results of one of these investigations, on
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

“ The air sacs of the pigeon,” by Bruno Miiller, was published during
the past year in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. The au-
thor summarizes the conclusions of his studies as follows:

I do not consider the air sacs, including the air cavities of bones, as organs
having a positive and special function, but rather as a system of empty inter-
spaces. Their value lies in their emptiness—that is, in their containing nothing
that offers resistance or has an appreciable weight.

Flying is the highest form of locomotion, and as such only possible to a body
of high mechanical efficiency. Our most effective machines are by no means
compact and solid, but composed of parts as strong as possible in themselves
and arranged in the most appropriate manner. The interspaces between the
parts are left empty and taken up by air.

The Sauropsida, at the time they obtained the power of flight, became adapted
to its mechanical requirements, and thereby similar to the efficient machines
mentioned above; they divested themselves of all superfluous material, filling
the body spaces thus obtained with air sacs. While the body wall, adapting
itself to the mechanical requirement, became a compact, hollow cylinder serving
as a support for the organs of movement, the mobility of the parts was assured
by surrounding them with air sacs.

The lengthening of the neck, produced by quite a different adaptation, made
necessary an increase in the quantity of air moved during respiration. This
demand was met by air currents generated through a rhythmical change in
the volume of the air sacs. The connection of the air sacs with the lungs is a
consequence of their phylogenetic development, which is repeated in their
embryological development, and has no physiological significance other than
that the air sacs assist in renewing the air in the trachea.

MECHANICS OF THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE.

Prof. Cleveland Abbe, who has received a Hodgkins grant for the
preparation of a second volume of translations of important foreign
memoirs on the mechanics of the earth’s atmosphere, has about com-
pleted this work. The former collection of translations on this sub-
ject by Professor Abbe, published in 1891 as volume 34 of the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, has been widely used and recognized
to be of important service to those engaged in the study of modern
dynamic meteorology.

NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

For the past fifteen years the Smithsonian Institution has supported
a table at the Naples Zoological Station and offered its facilities for
study to biologists recommended by an advisory committee of emi-
nent specialists. During the past year I have been aided by the
prompt and helpful action of this committee, whose membership con-
tinues the same as heretofore.

The occupation of the Smithsonian table was approved on behalf of
Mr. J. F. Lewis, of Johns Hopkins University, for the month of
March, 1908. His actual stay, however, exceeded that period by some
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

two weeks. Mr. Lewis has submitted an outline of his work, in which
he says:

My work at Naples was in continuation of lines of investigation already under
way. It consisted mainly in the collection and preservation of material for a
cytological study of Rhodophyce, with a view to gathering evidence as to the
extent of the remarkable alternation of generations in this group of plants.
Material was collected and carefully preserved of Dudresnaya coccinea, various
species of Callithamnion, and other forms. My comparatively short stay at
Naples precluded my making at the time the careful cytological investigation
which must precede the drawing of any conclusions as to the presence or ab-
sence of alternation of generations in the forms studied. This investigation is
now in progress and should lead to definite results of some theoretical value.
During my stay at Naples I also investigated the periodicity in the production
in the sexual cells of Dictyola dichotoma. This subject has been investigated by
J. Lloyd Williams on the coasts of England and Wales, and by W. D. Hoyt on
our own Atlantic coast. In both cases it has been found that the production of
sexual cells bears a very definite relation to the changes of the tides. It was
thought, therefore, to be of special interest to find how Dictyola behaves in seas
where the tides are very slight and where tidal influences are almost negligible.
The results of this investigation are practically ready for publication.

Prof. F. M. Andrews, of the University of Indiana, received the
appointment to the table for the months of April and May, 1908,
going there from a period of research work with Professor Pfeffer,
at the University of Leipzig. At Naples Professor Andrews was
engaged on a problem in plant physiology, a summary of the results
of which will receive mention when submitted to the Institution.

Dr. C. A. Kofoid, associate professor of histology and embryology
in the University of California, and assistant director of the San
Diego Marine Biological Station, will occupy the table for three
months from January 1, 1909. While at Naples Doctor Kofoid pro-
poses a research on sexual reproduction among Dinoflagellata, as yet
unknown in marine forms. He will also study the Gymnodinide,
which can be done only in the living condition, as they resist all
attempts at fixing. In addition to these investigations, he proposes
some experimental work on autotomy in Ceratium, with reference
to temperature and vertical distribution in the sea.

The application of Dr. M. F. Guyer, professor of zoology in the
University of Cincinnati, has been approved for April, May, and
June, 1909. Doctor Guyer has contributed to various scientific publi-
cations articles already well known, describing his investigations, and
on the close of his term at Naples is expected to send a brief outline
of his work there to the Institution.

To avoid the complications which may arise from the overlapping
of the dates of appointees to the table, a longer time is at present
allowed between the approval of an appointment and the time of
occupation than was at first found practicable. It is hoped that this
plan will allow a wider choice in the selection of dates, and tend to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

make the table available for the use of a greater number of investi-
gators than could otherwise be accommodated.

In the past fifteen years only one instance has occurred in which
an investigator has applied for the Smithsonian seat after having
asked the privilege of occupying another table for the same period.
The confusion which necessarily results from such action will be
readily appreciated. To meet the wish of the director, a double ap-
pointment on behalf of the Institution, for even a limited time, is not
approved without inquiry as to the convenience of the station in the
matter. It should be again noted, however, that the director of the
station is always most courteously ready to arrange for the accommo-
dation of more than one appointee when, on being notified in advance,
he finds such action practicable.

PUBLICATIONS.

Three series of publications are maintained by the Institution
proper, (1) the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, (2) the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and (3) the Annual Reports
to Congress; while under its auspices there are issued Annual Re-
ports, Proceedings, and Bulletins of the National Museum, Annual
Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory.

The Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are restricted to
positive additions to human knowledge resting on original research,
unverified speculations being excluded therefrom. The Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections contain reports showing progress in partic-
ular branches of science, lists and synopses of species of the organic
and inorganic world, accounts of explorations, and aids to biblio-
graphical investigations.

Three memoirs of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,
which were in press at the close of the last fiscal year, have been com-
pleted and distributed. One of these is a memoir of 147 pages and 42
plates by Dr. William Hittell Sherzer, giving the results of his stud-
ies of the glaciers of the Canadian Rockies and Selkirks. Doctor
Sherzer explains the physiographic changes of the past and those
now in progress in these regions, and gives the results of his observa-
tions on the structure of glacial ice and movements of the glaciers.
The second completed memoir of 79 pages and 10 plates is by Prof.
K. A. Andrews, on “ The Young of the Crayfish Astacus and Cam,
barus,” and the third memoir of 231 pages and 13 plates is by Prof.
Hubert Lyman Clark, on “ The Apodous Holothurians, a Monograph
of the Synaptide and Molopodiide,” including a report on the repre-
sentatives of these families in the National Museum collections.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

To meet the continued demand for the memoir by the late Secretary
Langley on “The Internal Work of the Wind,” first issued in
1893, a new edition has been put to press, adding to the original a
translation of a “ Solution of a Special Case of the General Prob-
lem,” by Réné de Saussure, which appeared in the French edition of
the work in 1893.

Forty papers were published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections during the year, 32 of them aggregating 500 pages, in the
quarterly issue of that series, and 8 papers, 647 pages, in the regular
series. These papers cover a wide range of topics, as enumerated by
the editor in his report on publications.

There was published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
a paper on “ The Development of the American Alligator ” describ-
ing the results of investigations by Prof. Albert M. Reese, of Syra-
cuse University, who had been aided in his work by a grant from
the Smithsonian Institution. A brief paper recording the observa-
tions by Professor Reese on the breeding habits of the Florida all-
gator was published in the Quarterly Issue of the Miscellaneous Col-
lections under date of May 4, 1907.

A volume of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections will be
devoted to a series of papers by the secretary on Cambrian geology
and paleontology. Two papers of this series, No. 1, “ Nomenclature
of Some Cordilleran Formations,” and No. 2, “ Cambrian Trilobites,”
were published before the close of the fiscal year. Three additional
papers were in proof form at the close of the year, namely, No. 3,
“Cambrian Brachiopoda: Descriptions of New Genera and Species; ”
No. 4, “ Classification and Terminology of the Cambrian Brachio-
poda;” and No. 5, “ Cambrian Sections of the Cordilleran Area.”

The series of Smithsonian Tables continues to be in demand. <A
revised edition of the Meteorological Tables has been published, and
a revised edition of the Physical Tables was in preparation for the
printer when the year closed. To this series of Meteorological, Physi-
cal, and Geographical Tables, there will be added a fourth volume,
“Smithsonian Mathematical Tables: Hyperbolic Functions,” pre-
pared by Dr. George F. Becker and Mr. C. E. Van Orstrand. This
volume of between 300 and 400 pages is now in press. In the intro-
duction to the work the authors say:

The hyperbolic functions are named the hyperbolic sine, cosine, tangent,
cotangent, secant, and cosecant from their close analogy to the circular fune-
tions, the tangent being the ratio of the hyperbolic sine to the cosine and the
other three functions being the reciprocals of these, as in circular trigonom-
etry. They are usually denoted by adding h to the symbols of the circular
functions, as cosh w for the hyperbolie cosine of u, sinh w for the hyperbolic
sine of wu, etc.

The first and most important application of the functions now known as
hyperbolic was made by Gerhard Mercator (Kremer) when he issued bis map
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

on “ Mereator’s projection,” in 1559, or, as some say, in 1550, while Bowditch
gives the date as 1566. To this day substantially all of the deep-sea naviga-
tion of the world is carried on by the help of this projection, which has been
modified only to the extent of correcting the meridional parts for the ellipticity
of the meridian.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, published
under an allotment granted by Congress, continues to be the principal
medium through which the Institution disseminates scientific infor-
mation to the world at large. For nearly sixty years this report
has included an appendix recording progress in different branches
of knowledge, the articles being compiled largely from journals in
foreign languages and the transactions of scientific and learned
societies throughout the world, comprising material otherwise not
readily accessible. It is impossible to meet the popular demand for
this publication, even from the considerable edition authorized by
Congress, so that the distribution of the 7,000 copies at the disposal
of the Institution must therefore be largely limited to libraries and
institutions where the public may refer to them.

The 1907 annual report was in type, but presswork could not be
completed before the close of the fiscal year. This volume includes
29 articles on the customary wide range of topics.

The publications of the National Museum during the year included
the annual report and a large number of papers of the bulletins and
proceedings, mentioned by the assistant secretary in the appendix of
the present report.

The twenty-fifth annual report and three bulletins of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, as also a special publication on “Indian Mis-
sions ” were issued during the year, and a number of works were in
press when the year closed, including a bulletin on “ Unwritten
Literature of Hawaii,” and Part I of “ Handbook of American In-
dian Languages.” Part II of the “ Handbook of American Indians ”
is still in press, the critical character of the contents of this work
rendering rapid progress undesirable.

The first volume of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory
was published in 1902, and the second volume, recording the results
of investigations from 1900 to 1906, has now been published. The
research described in this volume is a continuation of observations on
the relations of the sun to climate and life upon the earth, a line of
investigation inaugurated by the late Secretary Langley.

In compliance with the acts of incorporation of the American His-
torical Association and of the National Society of the Daughters of
the American Revolution, the annual reports of those bodies were
submitted to the secretary of the Smithsonian and transmitted to
Congress. |

The Department of State has transmitted a number of reports by
American consuls bearing on the Indians of Peru, Education in For-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

mosa, and other topics, some of which have been printed in the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

The monograph on Landmarks in Botanical History, referred to
in previous reports as in course of preparation by Dr. Edward L.
Greene, is progressing satisfactorily and will be published by the
Institution when completed.

A bibliography of tin is in preparation by Mr. F. L. Hess, with the
aid of a Smithsonian grant; and under the Hodgkins fund a bibliog-
raphy of aeronautics is being compiled by Mr. Paul Brockett.

In accordance with the act of Congress approved March 30, 1906,
providing that the cost of printing and binding for the executive
departments and government bureaus shall be charged to specific
allotments for the departments and bureaus, and the further provi-
sion in the sundry civil act of June 30, 1906, that no appropriations
except those specifically for printing and binding shall be used for
such purpose, special allotments have been made to the Institution
and its branches for the year ending June 30, 1909, as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution for printing and binding annual re-

ports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes__________ $10, 000. 00
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general ap-

pendixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins

and proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which

shall not exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or mate-

rial not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented

to and acquired by the National Museum library________________ 34, 000. 00

For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and tor -miscellaneous printing and binding for the

DUI CBs tse Fok Ee Se ee ee ee 21, 000. 00

For miscellaneous printing and binding:
PTET ALOT aly EK CH avTN SC ee 200. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_______________ 100. 00
INGHAM Veo oleic Tehylte oo 200. 00
Astrophysical Observatory ~~ __ SPS i ee De eee eee 100. 00
For the annual report of the American Historical Association______ 7, 000. 00
Mota >So Ake £4 ee Sel. es le ee ee ee 72, 600. 00

The allotments to the Institution and its branches under the head
of public printing and binding during the past fiscal year were as far
as practicable expended prior to June 30. The protracted session of
Congress, however, prevented the completion of considerable work in
hand during the latter part of the fiscal year, making it impossible to
entirely use some of the allotments.

Continuing the policy established last year, an editorial assistant
has been engaged in abstracting such publications of the Institution
and its branches as could be put in popular language for the use of
newspapers throughout the country. A number of more general arti-
cles on the work of the Institution have also been distributed to the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. il

press. This has resulted in reaching millions of readers who would
not have ready access to the scientific information in the publications
of the Institution.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION,

In order that the practice of the Institution in the supervision of
its publication and those of its branches might correspond with that
of the executive departments, as prescribed by the President’s order
of January 24, 1906, the Smithsonian advisory committee on printing
and publication, appointed February 7, 1906, held 26 meetings during
the year and reported on 137 manuscripts and numerous blank forms.
The committee also considered various questions pertaining to print-
ing and binding.

The committee consists of the following members: Dr. Cyrus Adler,
assistant secretary, chairman; Dr. F. W. True, head curator of
biology, U. S. National Museum; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist, the
Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent,
National Zoological Park; Mr. C. G. Abbot, director of the Astro-
physical Observatory; Mr. W. I. Adams, of the International Ex-
changes; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians,
U.S. National Museum.

The printing committee formulated a series of rules for the abbre-
viation of scientific periodicals in publications of the Smithsonian
and its branches. These rules, which have been approved for the
use of the Institution and its branches, are given in full in the editor’s
report. They may be summarized as follows:

1. In-abbreviating words in titles, stop before the second vowel, unless the
resulting abbreviation would contain but one consonant, in which case stop
before the third vowel.

2. All articles, prepositions, and conjunctions are to be omitted, except and
and for, which may be retained when necessary for clearness.

3. In abbreviated titles, the words should follow strictly the order of the full
titles.

4. (a) Words of one syllable, (b) titles consisting of a single word, (c)
names of towns (except as indicated under rule 5), (d@) names of persons
(when unmodified), and (e) names of geological formations are not to be
abbreviated.

5. Whenever necessary for clearness any of the foregoing rules may be dis-
regarded, but in such cases words should not be abbreviated.

LIBRARY.

The accessions to the Smithsonian library during the year aggre-
gated 36,068 in volumes and parts, an increase by some 1,800 entries
over the previous year. Of these accessions 24,777 were placed in the
Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, which comprises in
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

itself the largest library of scientific works in this country; 3,317
were divided among the libraries of the Secretary’s office, the Astro-
physical Observatory, the National Zoological Park, and the Inter-
national Exchanges, as expedient for purposes of administration, and
7,974 were deposited in the United States National Museum hbrary.
Besides these, there were numerous additions to the brary of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, which is administered separately.
It is estimated that an equivalent of 6,560 volumes was transmitted
to the Library of Congress, comprising in actual numbers 25,524 pub-
lications in the form of parts of periodicals, pamphlets, and volumes.
These two counts do not include public documents presented to the
Smithsonian Institution, sent direct to the Library of Congress as
soon as received, without stamping or recording; or public documents
and other gifts to the Library of Congress received through the inter-
national exchange service, or publications requested to complete sets
in the Smithsonian deposit at the Library of Congress, which have
been transmitted separately.

As the result of a special effort to secure missing parts to complete
sets, 500 new periodicals were added to the lists and about 1,559 parts
lacking in the sets were received, which partially or entirely filled up
the various series of publications in the Smithsonian deposit. In
writing for the missing parts of publications needed to complete
these sets the library has had assistance from the international ex-
change service of the Institution. In addition the Institution has,
through the medium of the international exchatige service, sent out
requests for government documents and serial publications needed to
complete the sets in the Library of Congress, and with this end in
view letters have been written to Bavaria, the province of Buenos
Aires, Costa Rica, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Newfoundland,
Nicaragua, Japan, Russia, and Salvador. Over 3,300 publications
were issued during the year for consultation by members of the staff
and by various bureaus of the Government.

In addition to the regular work in the lbrary, the assistant libra-
rian has reconstructed the memorandum list of the engravings and
art collection of Mr. George Perkins Marsh, purchased in 1849, what-
ever catalogue may have been made having been destroyed in the fire
of 1866, and has been engaged in preparing a bibliography of aero-
nautical literature.

PRESERVATION OF ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES.

I have heretofore called attention to what had been done toward
the preservation of archeological objects on the public domain from
destruction by vandals and relic hunters and toward making these
antiquities accessible under proper rules and regulations. Under
the terms of an act of Congress approved June 8, 1906, uniform regu-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

lations for its administration were prepared by the Secretaries of the
Interior, War, and Agriculture, with the cooperation of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and were promulgated on December 28, 1906, in
the form printed in my last report to the Regents. Under rule 8,
applications for permits are referred to the Smithsonian Institution
for recommendation. During the past year I have acted upon several
such applications. The conservation of the nation’s archeological
possessions was regulated by law none too soon to prevent further
mutilation or useless destruction of interesting antiquities in many
places.

The President of the United States, by executive proclamation
during the year, made several additions to the list of national monu-
ments, including three of archeological interest: (1) the Tonto Na-
tional Monument in Arizona, where there are two cliff dwellings not
yet reported on; (2) the Gila Cliff-Dwellings National Monument in
the Gila National Forest in New Mexico, comprising a group of
cliff dwellings, and (3) the Grand Canyon National Monument,
which includes a large number of cliff dwellings, pueblos, dwelling
sites, and burial places in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado.

CASA GRANDE RUIN IN ARIZONA.

In 1906 Congress granted an appropriation of $3,000 to be ex-
pended under the supervision of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the preservation of the Casa Grande ruin in Pinal
County, near Florence, Ariz., and for the excavation of the reserva-
tion. An account of the work accomplished by Doctor Fewkes up
to June 30, 1907, was published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections under date of October 25, 1907. The work done during
the past fiscal year, under a second appropriation, is noted in Appen-
dix II of the present report. The largest structure excavated
at Casa Grande is a building 200 feet long with 11 rooms, the massive
walls inclosing a plaza. In the central room there is a seat called by
the Pima Indians “the seat of Montezuma.” The ruins at Casa
Grande are found to be very much more extensive than was antici-
pated, and their permanent preservation is of great archeological
importance.

MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK.

In addition to the work of excavation, preservation, and repair of
the cliff dwellings and other prehistoric ruins in the Mesa Verde
National Park in Colorado, which was intrusted by the Interior
Department to the direction of the Institution in February, 1908, a
moderate grant from the Smithsonian fund was approved this year
for additional general studies of the prehistoric culture of the Gila

§8292—sm 1908——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Valley, outside the Casa Grande Reservation. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes,
who directed the Mesa Verde explorations, has prosecuted this later
research also and will submit an account in detail of what he has
done, for publication by the Institution. The work thus far accom-
plished by Doctor Fewkes is briefly described in Appendix II of the

present report.
CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution, besides serving its purposes
in administration, furthers to a degree the second fundamental object
of the Institution, the diffusion of knowledge among men. Through
this department are received inquiries on the most varied topics
relating to almost every field of science, all of which, so far as prac-
ticable, are answered by a member of the staff familiar with the sub-
ject concerning which information is desired. The Institution
however, does not attempt to maintain a universal information bureau,
nor does it seek to answer queries of a commercial nature for in-
formation which may be secured from a professional advisor upon
payment of a fee. |

In addition to this general correspondence, there is carried on by
the several branches of the Institution a considerable correspondence
relating to the respective activities of each. All matters affecting
questions of policy, and all appointments, however, receive the
personal consideration of the secretary.

During the past year newer and more convenient cases have been
installed for filing letters, and certain improvements in methods of |
indexing and arranging letters have been made.

CONGRESSES AND CELEBRATIONS.

International Zoological Congress—The Seventh International
Zoological Congress met in Boston, August 19 to 25, 1907. Dr.
Richard Rathbun, assistant secretary, Dr. Theodore Gill, and Dr.
William H. Dall were delegates on the part of the Smithsonian In-
stitution; Dr. F. W. True, Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, and Dr. Harrison
G. Dyar on the part of the United States National Museum, and Dr.
Frank Baker on the part of the National Zoological Park. These
gentlemen were also designated by the Department of State as rep-
resentatives of the United States Government. In addition, Doctor
Gill served as delegate on the part of the Washington Academy of
Sciences and the Biological Society of Washington, and to represent
His Siamese Majesty. After the Boston meeting the congress paid
a visit to Washington from September 3-6, during which time the
members were entertained by a trip and luncheon in the National
Zoological Park and by an informal reception at the National Mu-
seum and the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

International Congress on Tuberculosis—In connection with the
Sixth International Congress on Tuberculosis to be held in the new
United States National Museum building in Washington, September
21 to October 12, 1908, the Institution has offered from the Hodgkins
fund a prize of $1,500 for the best paper “ On the relation of atmos-
pheric air to tuberculosis,” mention of which is made elsewhere in
this report.

The Secretary of the Institution is a member of the head committee
on International Congress on Tuberculosis.

Centenary, London Geological Society——The centenary celebration
of the Geological Society of London was held September 26, 27, and
28, 1907, at which the Smithsonian Institution and the United States
National Museum were represented by Dr. Arnold Hague. Doctor
Hague reported the gathering of a distinguished body of eminent
geologists from all parts of the world.

Mathematical Congress—The Fourth International Congress of
Mathematicians met at Rome, April 6-11, 1908. The Institution was
represented by Prof. Simon Newcomb.

Congress of Orientalists—At the fifteenth session of the Interna-
tional Congress of Orientalists, to be held in Copenhagen, Denmark,
August 14-20, 1908, Dr. Paul Haupt, of the United States National
Museum and Johns Hopkins University, has been designated to rep-
resent the Institution. Upon recommendation of the Institution the
following gentlemen have been designated by the Department of
State as delegates on the part of the United States Government:
Dr. Paul Haupt; Dr. C. R. Lanman, of Harvard University; Prof.
Morris Jastrow, jr., of the University of Pennsylvania; and Prof.
A. V. W. Jackson, of Columbia University.

Congress of Americanists.—The Sixteenth International Congress
of Americanists will be held in Vienna, Austria, September 8-14,
1908. Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University, has been named
to represent the Institution; and the Department of State, at the sug-
gestion of the Institution, has designated, besides Doctor Boas, the
following-named gentlemen delegates on the part of the United States
Government: Prof. Marshall H. Saville, of Columbia; Dr. George
Grant McCurdy, of Yale; Dr. Charles Peabody, of Harvard; and
Dr. Paul Haupt, of Johns Hopkins.

Fishery Congress.——In connection with the International Fishery
Congress, to meet in Washington September 22-26, 1908, the Insti-
tution made an allotment of $200 from the Smithsonian fund for the
best essay or treatise on “ International regulation of the fisheries on
the high seas; their history, objects, and results.”

Other congresses and meetings.—At the meeting of the National
Academy of Sciences in New York, November 19-21, 1907, your
Secretary presented a brief résumé of some of his special geological
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

researches in a paper entitled “Summary of studies of Cambrian
brachiopods.” At the First Pan-American Scientific Congress, to
meet in Santiago, Chile, December 25, 1908, to January 5, 1909,
Mr. W. H. Holmes, chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
has been designated by the Department of State, upon the recom-
mendation of the Institution, to represent the United States Govern-
ment in the section of anthropology and ethnology. Prof. Morris
Jastrow, jr., of the University of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Paul Haupt,
of the Johns Hopkins University, have been suggested by the Institu-
tion as delegates on the part of the United States to the Third Inter-
national Congress for the History of Religions, to meet at Oxford,
September 15-18, 1908. The Institution has subscribed to member-
ship in the First International Congress on Refrigerating Industries
to be held in Paris, October 5-10, 1908.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Hamilton fund lecture.—In 1871 a bequest was made to the Smith-
sonian Institution by Mr. James Hamilton, as follows:

I give one thousand dollars to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, located at Washington, D. C., to be invested in some safe fund,
and the interest to be appropriated biennially by the secretaries, either in
money or a medal, for such contribution, paper, or lecture on any scientific or
useful subject as said secretaries may approve.

The bequest was accepted, but the income was allowed to accrue
until it amounted to the principal, the interest of which now gives
biennally $240. The first use made of this fund was in 1905,
when Dr. Andrew D. White was invited to deliver a lecture on “ The
diplomatic service of the United States, with some hints toward its
reform.” Doctor White delivered this lecture in one of the halls of
the National Museum in Washington, and it was subsequently printed
by the Institution in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections and
widely distributed. The second lecture under the auspices of this
fund was delivered on Wednesday evening, April 22, 1908, at Hub-
bard Memorial Hall, Washington, by Dr. George E. Hale, on “ Some
recent contributions to our knowledge of the sun.”

Seismology.—The Institution has received during the year a num-
ber of letters and reports on earthquakes in various parts of the world,
and has communicated the information therein to Prof. Harry Field-
ing Reid, of Johns Hopkins University, the representative of the
United States on the International Seismological Association. In the
Congressional diplomatic ¢ appropriation for 1909 there was included
the item, “ For defraying the necessary expenses in fulfilling the obli-
gations a the United States as a member of the Taiciarunia sav Seis-
mological Association, including the annual contribution to the ex-
penses of the association, and the expenses of the United States dele-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oT

gate in attending the meetings of the commission, one thousand three
hundred dollars.” The publications of the Seismological Association
are distributed to American correspondents through the medium of
the International Exchanges.

Hayden Memorial Medal——tThere was presented to the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution on January 7, 1908, the Hayden memo-
rial geological medal. This gold medal was established by the Phila-
delphia Academy of Natural Sciences as a memorial of Prof. F. V.
Hayden, the eminent geologist and explorer, and was presented to
Doctor Walcott in these terms: “ In recognition of the value of your
individual contributions to geological science and of the benefits de-
rived from your able and conscientious discharge of the official trust
confided to you.”

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The operations of the National Museum showing the progress made
during the year and the present condition of the collections are dis-
cussed in the appendix to the present report and in a separate volume
by the assistant secretary in charge, and need not here be taken up in
detail.

Over 200,000 anthropological, biological, and geological speci-
mens were received during the year, including many objects of
extreme interest. The most important loan addition to the his-
torical collections was the American flag, nearly 30 feet square,
which floated over Fort McHenry during the war of 1812 and which
was the inspiration for the writing of the verses of the “ Star-
Spangled Banner,” by Francis Scott Key. Relating to ethnology
and biology, there were received, as in former years, many important
contributions from Dr. W. L. Abbott and Maj. Edgar A. Mearns.
Many zoological and botanical specimens have been deposited by the
Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of Fisheries, and other gov-
ernment institutions. In geology the most important accessions
included the Hambach collection of fossil invertebrates, purchased by
the Smithsonian Institution, some rare species of fossil reptiles and
mammals from South America, and fossil mammals from Alaska. I
may also mention a large series of Cambrian fossils collected by me in
British Columbia and Idaho. Specimens of rocks and ores, mainly
from the Geological Survey, were added to the collections; also a
number of rare minerals.

While the museum is the custodian of government collections, and
while to the public its main feature is the exhibition of character-
istic objects in its several divisions, yet the law demands that the
material shall be classified and properly arranged, a task which
involves a large amount of research work. The work during the
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

past year covered many fields, including prehistoric archeology in
Arizona and elsewhere, studies on the human skeleton of different
races, physiological and medical observations among the Indians of
the Southwest, fossil whales, reptiles of Japan, the Philippines, and
North America, corals of the Hawaiian Islands, the study of meteor-
ites from Canyon Diablo, Arizona, and other localities, besides ex-
tensive investigations on fossil invertebrates, mammals, reptiles, and
plants.

The museum has continued in the customary way to advance the
interests of teaching by distributing carefully labeled and classified
sets of specimens to educational establishments throughout the coun-
try. Twelve thousand specimens were thus distributed during the
year.

In conjunction with the Institution the museum participated in the
expositions at Jamestown and Bordeaux and much of the material
prepared for these occasions has since been incorporated in the
museum collections.

On the new building for the National Museum fair progress was
made during the year and at its close the walls had been entirely com-
pleted and the construction of the roof was well under way. The
fitting up of the interior, however, involves a very large amount of
work, since it includes the covering with suitable materials of some
10 acres of floor space.

An interesting loan collection of over 650 specimens of laces, em-
broideries, old and rare pieces of porcelain, enamels, jewelry, and
other artistic objects has been temporarily installed in the hall occu-
pied by the gallery of art. These objects were gathered and arranged
by an informal committee of ladies, with Mrs. James W. Pinchot as
chairman. It is hoped that this exhibit may be the nucleus of a per-
manent collection of objects of this class.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The paintings forming the nucleus of the National Gallery of Art
have been exhibited during the past year not under the most favor-
able circumstances, owing to the Congress not having provided an
appropriation for furnishing suitable quarters. Nevertheless, some
important donations of pictures were received. Mr. William T.
Evans made a number of additions to his collection of contemporary
American artists, a deposit of thirteen historical marine paintings by
the late Edward Moran was made, and several gifts of single paint-
ings were accepted. By act of Congress approved May 22, 1908, the
colossal marble statue of Washington by Horatio Greenough, which
since 1875 has occupied its well-known position in front of the Capi-
tol, was transferred to the custody of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

In order to maintain a proper standard of merit in the acceptance
of works of art an advisory committee of five artists has been desig-
nated. Three members of this committee were by request selected
by three leading art associations of the country and two members
were named by the Institution. The committee met at the Smith-
sonian Institution on April 16, 1908, and organized by the election of
Mr. Francis D. Millet as president and Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the
Smithsonian Institution, as secretary. The other members of the
committee are Mr. Frederick Crowninshield, of the Fine Arts Feder-
ation of New York; Mr. Edwin H. Blashfield, of the National Acad-
emy of Design; and Mr. Herbert Adams, of the National Sculpture
Society.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology has continued its investiga-
tions among the Indian tribes of the country begun over a quarter of
a century ago. While seeking to cover in the most comprehensive
manner the whole range of American ethnology, the bureau has taken
particular care to avoid entering upon researches that are likely to
be provided for by other agencies, public or private. The results
sought by the bureau are: (1) Acquirement of a thorough knowledge
of the American Indian tribes, their origin, relationship to one an-
other and to the whites, location, numbers, capacity for civilization,
claims to territory, and their interests generally, for the practical
purposes of government; and (2) the completion of a systematic and
well-rounded record of the tribes for historic and scientific purposes
before their aboriginal characteristics and culture are too greatly
modified or are completely lost.

Since it has not been possible to study all of the tribes in detail, a
sufficient number have been taken as types to stand for all. The
work accomplished in securing knowledge of these tribes has been
recorded in the annual reports of the bureau, and the results ob-
tained have been published, so far as circumstances will permit, in
bulletins of the bureau. Many manuscripts are preserved in the
archives of the bureau. To the present time there have been col-
lected data relating to some 60 families of linguistic stocks and
upward of 300 tribes. During the past year this fund of knowledge
was added to through researches carried on in Arizona, New Mexico,
Colorado, Texas, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, and Ontario. Investi-
gations in the field, however, were not as extensive as in some previous
years, on account of the necessity of retaining nearly all of the
ethnologic force in the office for the purpose of completing the
Handbook of American Indians, part 1 of which was published last
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

year. The handbook is in the nature of a summary of knowledge
gained thus far concerning the American Indians. The demand for
the part of the work published has been so great that the bureau
has found it impossible to supply even a third of the copies requested
by correspondents. The quota under control of the Superintendent
of Documents also was soon exhausted, necessitating the reprinting
of an edition of 500 copies (the limit allowed by law) to fill the
orders received. As the main body of part 2 was in type at the close
of the fiscal year, it is expected that this part will be issued in the
course of a few months. In editing the handbook during the year
the staff of the bureau was generously aided by upward of thirty
specialists throughout the country, who rendered all possible assist-
ance in their particular fields. A work of somewhat similar purpose
is a Handbook of American Indian Languages, the manuscript of
which was practically completed at the close of the fiscal year.

For the first time the study of native Indian music was seriously
taken up by the bureau in connection with certain investigations re-
lating to the grand medicine ceremony of the Chippewa on the White
Earth Reservation, Minn. The phonograph was employed in
recording the songs. Records of songs were also secured from mem-
bers of various Indian delegations visiting the capital.

This study and recording of the Indian tribes is not only of national
importance but urgent. The native American race, one of the four
‘aces of men, is fast disappearing, and the processes of obliteration
are sure. If authoritative investigations are not made now, they never
can be made with any like degree of accuracy or of thoroughness. It
is a work the nation owes to science, to the Indian race, and to itself.
It is a work worthy of a great nation, and one which can be carried
on systematically only by a nation. Through the researches of the
bureau the world is not only securing, while possible, a permanent
record of one of the great races of men now dying, but is gaining a
knowledge of the Indian for practical purposes of administration and
in the interest of humanity.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The promotion of literary and scientific intercourse between this
country and other parts of the world has been vigorously earried for-
ward during the past year through the system of international ex-
changes. The details of the regular work of the service are given in
full in the report on the exchange service and only the more important
matters are referred to here.

The growth of this service has been made possible through the
action of Congress and of our Government in negotiating treaties
with other nations to place the exchange of government, scientific,
and literary publications upon a definite, legal, international footing.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

Through an increase in the appropriation granted by Congress
it was possible during the year to inaugurate a system of work which
had long been in mind—that of actively seeking returns from foreign
countries for the exchanges sent to them by this Government and its
departments and bureaus. The result has already been more than
satisfactory, but the effort is so recent that its full fruition can hardly
be expected within the year. A number of most gratifying acknowl-
edgments have been received from various departments of the Goy-
ernment regarding this new work.

The transmission of packages has been much more prompt during
the past twelve months than during any like period in the history of
the service, shipments being made to all countries at least once a
month.

At the request of the Russian Commission of International Ex-
changes, en behalf of the library commission of the Douma, the
interchange of parliamentary publications has been entered into with
Russia.

The French Chamber of Deputies has also made a request, through
the Department of State, for the exchange of parliamentary docu-
ments, and the matter was communicated to Congress by the depart-
ment during the last session.

At the time the convention for the exchange of official documents
and scientific and literary publications was concluded at Brussels
in 1886, an agreement was also entered into between the United
States and several other countries for the immediate exchange of
official journals, etc., but in the absence of the necessary legislation
by Congress no steps have been taken by the Institution to carry this
agreement into effect. As the subject has now been brought to the
attention of Congress, it is hoped that a sufficient number of copies
of the Congressional Record may be set aside for this purpose.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of
the congressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901,
setting apart a certain number of documents for exchange with for-
eign countries, there are now sent regularly to depositories abroad
54 full sets of United States official publications and 32 partial sets,
China having been added during the year to the list of countries
receiving full sets and Montenegro and Liberia to the list of those
receiving partial sets.

As a result of correspondence between the Smithsonian Institution
and the diplomatic envoys from the Republic of Liberia, regarding
the establishment of a bureau of international exchanges in that
country and the interchange of official documents between that
country and the United States, the department of state at Monrovia
has been designated to act as the exchange intermediary between
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

the two countries, and the proposition to exchange official publica-
tions has been accepted by the envoys.

The total number of packages handled by the International Ex-
change Service during the past year was 203,098, an increase over
the number for the preceding year of 18,268. The weight of these
packages was 435,285 pounds, 70 per cent of which was in the interest
of the United States Government.

The Smithsonian Institution, through its system of exchanges, is
in correspondence with 60,123 establishments and individuals, 48,340
of which are exterior to the borders of the United States. These
correspondents are scattered throughout the world, and there are few
places, however remote, which do not profit by the service.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

By authority of the act of Congress approved April 30, 1890, estab-
lishing the National Zoological Park, “ for the advancement of sci-
ence and the instruction and recreation of the people,” collections of
living animals, now numbering 1,402 individuals, have been brought
together from all parts of the world, and housed as nearly as pos-
sible in surroundings natural to them. These collections at the close
of the fiscal year included 350 species: Mammals, 146; birds, 168;
and reptiles, 36.

By exhibiting the animals, properly labeled, the object of instruct-
ing and entertaining the visitors, of which there were 652,500 (in-
cluding 4,688 school children) during the year, was furthered, and
by study of the specimens the advancement of science was in a
measure attained. In September the park was visited by the Inter-
national Zoological Congress, about eighty members of which spent
a day examining the collections. As in previous years specialists
of the Department of Agriculture studying animal diseases were
offered opportunities for pathological investigations when animals
died, and such dead animals as might be useful to the national col-
lections were sent to the National Museum. This to a certain degree
was in keeping with the first purpose in establishing the park,
namely, “the advancement of science.” It has not as yet been pos-
sible, however, owing to the yearly present necessities, to fully carry
out plans in this regard formulated at the time of the organization
of the park.

Designs have been drawn for a much-needed laboratory and hospital
building, through the erection and equipment of which it is hoped not
only that the welfare of the Government’s animals may be even more
thoroughly guarded, but investigations of a zoological nature for
the increase of practical and scientific knowledge may be prosecuted.
With one exception no particular appropriation has been made for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

the erection of buildings for the animals in the park since its estab-
lishment. The wooden structures which originally sheltered the
animals could therefore be replaced only as strict economy in admin-
istration expenses permitted. As the appropriations for adminis-
tration for a number of years have been but little more than sufficient
to maintain the park, it can not now be said how soon the plans for
the new building may be carried into effect. There is also needed a
new aquarium building, since the present structure, originally built
in the most temporary manner for use as a hay shed, is fast falling
into decay, and a general aviary, antelope house, inclosures for sea
lions and seals, and a centrally located office building are much
desired.

Under the special appropriation allowed for the reconstruction and
repairing of walks and roadways the most notable improvements of
the year have been made, several long concrete approaches having
been constructed, and a considerable portion of roadbed having been
remade. As in previous years, particular attention has been devoted
to preserving the natural beauty of the grounds.

During the year there were 591 accessions, which included 6% gifts,
91 births, 397 purchases, and 32 exchanges. There were 382 losses,
by death, exchange, and return of animals. Total number June 30,
1908, 1,402.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory during the last fiscal
year has consisted (1) of solar observations on Mount Wilson, Cali-
fornia, and at Washington, (2) a solar eclipse expedition to Flint
Island in the southern Pacific, and (3) the final preparation and pub-
lication of the second volume of the Annals of the Observatory.

The Mount Wilson observations, continued from the summers of
1905 and 1906, were directed toward securing as many records of
intensity of solar radiation as possible for the study of solar changes.
As in former years, other kinds of measurements were made, notably
on the brightness of the sky and on the reflection of the clouds.
Since the observations as a whole have shown that the variation of
solar radiation is highly probable, and since numerous days suitable
for solar radiation measurements were found in the months from
May to November on Mount Wilson, it is proposed to erect, on a
small and well-isolated plot of ground leased for the purpose, a fire-
proof observing shelter to be occupied by Smithsonian observers each
year during the months mentioned. This will enable frequent obser-
vation of the “ solar constant ” during a period of years at least equal
to the sun-spot cycle, a research regarded as of great importance by
the late director, Mr. Langley. The work at Washington included
the observation, with improved methods, of the relative brightness of
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

different parts of the sun’s disk, and preliminary measurements, re.
quiring exceptional care, of the absorption of water vapor in long
columns of air, for the region of the spectrum where rays are chiefly
emitted by the earth.

The Smithsonian expedition to Flint Island in the southern Pa-
cific to study the solar eclipse of January 3, 1908, was made in co-
operation with Director Campbell, of the Lick Observatory, the party
being absent from Washington from November 5, 1907, to February
12, 1908. It was proposed to measure, with that extremely sensitive
electrical thermometer called the bolometer, the intensity of the
radiation of the solar corona, and to determine the quality of coronal
light as compared with sunlight. This is an observation that it is
very unlikely will ever be possible except during an eclipse. In
general terms the bolometric results indicate that the coronal radia-
tion differs but little in quality from that of the sun, and is in fact
far richer than the reflected rays of the moon in visible light,
although less rich than skylight. Observations as to the nature of
the corona were such as to lead at least to the suggestion that gases
are present along with solid and liquid particles. The exact con-
clusions reached are given fully in the report of the director.

The second volume of the Annals, issued in April, includes an
account of the work of the Observatory from 1900 to 1907. Com-
mendatory notices by letter and in the journals and requests for
copies of the work have been numerous. Speaking broadly, the
energy of the Observatory was devoted, during the period covered
by the volume, to an investigation of the intensity of the rays of the
sun and the dependence of the earth’s temperature upon the radia-
tion. The investigations have resulted in apparently definitely fixing
the approximate average value of the “ solar constant ” at 2.1 calories
per square centimeter per minute, and in showing decisively that
there is a marked fluctuation about this mean value sufficient in
magnitude to influence very perceptibly the climate, at least of the
inland regions, upon the earth.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERA-
TURE.

The organization known as the International Catalogue of Sci-
entific Literature has by means of the cooperation of all of the
principal countries of the world been publishing since 1901, in seven-
teen annual volumes, a classified author’s and subject index catalogue
of the current scientific literature of all the civilized countries of the
world. Each country collects, indexes, and classifies the scientific
literature published within its borders and furnishes to the central
bureau in London the material thus prepared for publication in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

annual volumes. The cost of preparation is borne by the countries
taking part in the enterprise, in the great majority of cases the sup-
port being derived through direct governmental grants. The entire
cost of printing and publishing is borne by the subscribers to the
catalogue, which include, besides individuals, the leading American
universities, libraries, and scientific societies.

That all sections of the civilized world are now represented in this
enterprise is shown by the following lst of regional bureaus now
established and regularly furnishing the London central bureau
classified citations of scientific papers published within their domains:
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary, India and Ceylon, Italy, Japan,
Mexico, New South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Poland (Austrian,
Russian, and Prussian), Portugal, Queensland, Russia, South Africa,
South Australia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United States of
America, Victoria, and Western Australia.

During the year there was combined with the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature the annual publication known as the
Zoological Record, which has been prepared for many years by the
Zoological Society of London. This, it is hoped, is merely prelimi-
nary to the association of a number of independent scientific bibli-
ographies and yearbooks with the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature.

Under the congressional allotment of $5,000 for the last fiscal
year, aS in previous years, 28,528 references to American scientific
literature were completed and forwarded to the central bureau in
London for publication.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary.
APPENDIX I.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908:

The ever-increasing crowded condition of the two buildings occupied by the
National Museum has made it more difficult each year to provide for the collec-
tions and to insure their safety and orderly arrangement. It is, therefore, but
natural that the completion of the large new building, with its greater con-
veniences, should be eagerly awaited, and it is hoped that the work of moving
in can begin before the close of another year. At the commencement of the
fiscal year the outer walls of this structure had been carried to the height of
the lintels at the top of the second story on the eastern section of the building,
but not so high on the western. Work on the two entrance pavilions had only
reached the top of the basement story, but the steel work and arches of the
second floor were in place, and the lecture hall in the basement had been
inclosed and partly vaulted.

Fair progress was made during the year, and at its close the walls had been
entirely completed except at the south pavilion, which is to contain the main
entrance and the rotunda, and the construction of the roof was well under way.
The fitting up of the interior, however, involves a very great amount of work, since
it includes the covering with suitable materials of some 10 acres of floor space,
the building of many partitions, the plastering of walls, piers, and ceilings, and
the introduction of boilers, machinery, and minor appliances for heating, venti-
lation, lighting, and various other purposes, besides the furnishings for the halls
and rooms.

The buildings occupied for many years have been kept in excellent condition,
and the museum building has been much improved by replacing its original
and imperfect roofs, which have always been a source of great annoyance. The
rebuilding of these roofs with tin, begun three years ago, was, with the exception
of that covering the rotunda, completed during the year. The latter, however,
has since been finished. It is interesting to note that this entire work was car-
ried on without closing any part of the building and without injury to any of its
contents. Some progress was also made in the isolation of the exhibition halls
by the closing of the large openings between them, as a precautionary measure
against the spread of fire.

The failure to secure, last winter, an appropriation for fitting up suitable
quarters for the nucleus of the national gallery of art has retarded the segre-
gation and arrangement of the collection of paintings, which is now exhibited
under very adverse conditions, not at all likely to attract the attention of those
who might gladly contribute to this popular branch of the museum. Notwith-
standing these circumstances, however, some important donations of pictures
were received during the year.

Mr. William T. Hyans has added to his collection of contemporary American
artists paintings by Hugo Ballin, George De Forest Brush, F. 8. Church, Henry
Golden Dearth, Charles Melville Dewey, Paul Dougherty, Ben Foster, Childe
Hassam, Ernest Lawson, Willard Leroy Metcalf, Robert Reid, R. M. Shurtleff,

36
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SV

John H. Twachtman, Henry Oliver Walker, Worthington Whittredge, Carleton
Wiggins, Irving R. Wiles, and Frederick Ballard Williams. Among other gifts
of paintings to the gallery may be mentioned the following: “Crossing the
Ferry,” by Adrien Moreau, presented by Mrs. James Lowndes in memory of
her father, Lucius Tuckerman; and “Indian Summer Day,” by Max Weyl,
presented by 30 of his Washington friends in commemoration of the seyentieth
anniversary of the artist’s birth.

The collection of 13 historical marine paintings executed by the late Edward
Moran during the later years of his life, have, through the courtesy of Mr.
Theodore Sutro, of New York, been temporarily deposited in the gallery, of
which they form a conspicuous feature. The titles of the several pieces of the
series are as follows: The Ocean—The Highway of all Nations; Landing of
Lief Erickson in the New World in the Year 1001; The Santa Maria, Nina, and
Pinta; The Debarkation of Columbus; Midnight Mass on the Mississippi Over
the Body of Ferdinand De Soto, 1542; Henry Hudson Entering New York Bay,
September 11, 1609; Embarkation of the Pilgrims from Southampton, August 5,
1620; First Recognition of the American Flag by a Foreign Government, in the
Harbor of Quiberon, France, February 13, 1778; Burning of the Frigate Phila-
delphia in the Harbor of Tripoli, February 16, 1804; The Brig Armstrong
Engaging the British Fleet in the Harbor of Fayal, September 26, 1814; Iron
versus Wood—Sinking of the Cumberland by the Merrimac, in Hampton Roads,
March 8, 1862; The White Squadron’s Farewell Salute to the Body of Captain
John Ericsson, New York Bay, August 25, 1890; Return of the Conquerors,
Typifying Our Victory in the Late Spanish-American War, September 29, 1899.

By act of Congress, appreved May 22, 1908, the colossal marble statue of
Washington by Horatio Greenough, completed in 1840, and since 1875 occupy-
ing its well-known position in front of the main steps of the Capitol, was trans-
ferred to the custody of the Smithsonian Institution. It is intended to remove
this work at once to the Smithsonian building, where it will be installed for the
present.

In accordance with the plan proposed the year before, with the object of
maintaining a* proper standard of merit in the acceptance of paintings and
works of sculpture for the National Gallery of Art, a committee of five artists
to act in an advisory capacity was designated in the spring of 1908. The
selection of three members of the committee was requested of three leading art
associations, the other two members being named by the Institution. This
committee held its first meeting, for the purposes of organization and prelimi-
nary considerations, at the Smithsonian Institution, on April 16, 1908. As
organized, it is constituted as follows: Mr. Francis D. Millet, president; Mr.
Frederick Crowninshield, representing the Fine Arts Federation, of which he
is the president; Mr. Edwin H. Blashfield, representing the National Academy
of Design; Mr. Herbert Adams, representing the National Sculpture Society,
of which he is the president; and Mr. William H. Holmes, of the Smithsonian
Institution, secretary of the committee.

In May, 1908, a number of the ladies of Washington, acting on their own
initiative but with the hearty concurrence of the Institution, effected an in-
formal organization looking to the building up in the National Museum of a
worthy collection of laces, embroideries, and other artistic objects of personal
adornment and utility. Having decided that the assembling of a loan collection
might best further their efforts by stimulating an interest in the subject, a
working committee, with Mrs. James W. Pinchot as chairman, was immediately
appointed, and during May and June a very large number of appropriate objects
was brought together. The installation, made by the members of the commit-
tee, filled twenty cases, which had unfortunately to be placed in the very
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

crowded hall occupied by the gallery of art. The character of the articles and
the very effective manner in which they were arranged has, however, made this
collection one of the most attractive features of the museum. The number of
exhibitors is 18, while the total number of their contributions amounts to over
650. Besides laces and embroideries, the exhibit contains many fans, minia-
tures, old and rare pieces of porcelain and china, enamels, ivories, silverware,
and jewelry. It is hoped that this beginning, which, it is understood, will be
extended during the coming winter, will go far toward accomplishing the result
so much desired.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

The total number of accessions received during the year was 1,391, comprising
approximately 219,505 specimens, of which 10,487 were anthropological, 176,263
biological, and 82,755 geological.

The principal accession in ethnology consisted of about 600 extremely inter-
esting objects collected among the natives of West Borneo by Dr. W. L. Abbott,
and by him presented to the museum, in continuation of his many valuable
contributions from the Malaysian region. Other important ethnological col-
lections from the islands of the South Pacific were also obtained, among which
may be mentioned material from the Philippine Islands presented by Maj. EH. A.
Mearns and Capt. Jesse R. Harris, U. S. Army; and from Guam, donated by
Mr. W. E. Safford. Noteworthy among the loans are a large number of art
objects in metal obtained by Gen, Oliver Ellsworth Wood, U. S. Army, during
a four years’ residence in Japan as military attaché, and a collection made by
Senator A. J. Beveridge during an extended trip to the Orient, including the
Philippine Islands, Japan, and China. As bearing upon the American Indians
there were added many specimens from the region of the northern cliff dwellers
of northwestern Arizona, the Taos and Zuni Indians of New Mexico, and the
Iroquois of New York and Canada. A small but valuable collection illus-
trating the industrial and social life of the little-known Tahltan Indians of
Stikine River, British Columbia, was received from the Bureau of American
Ethnology. Among the models from the Patent Office assigned to the division
of ethnology were many relating to fire making, heating, cooking, illumination,
eulture history, ete.

To Mr. Ephraim Benguiat, of New York, the museum is under deep ebliga-
tions for the addition of twenty-one objects to his already Jarge collection of
Jewish religious ceremonial objects on deposit in the division of historic re-
ligions. They include two finely embroidered synagogue veils, two silver-gilt
breastplates of exquisite workmanship, and a silver and brass hanukah lamp of
artistic design.

The division of prehistoric archeology obtained from the excavations con-
ducted by Dr. J. W. Fewkes at the Casa Grande ruins, Arizona, from October,
1906, to March, 1907, under a special act of Congress, an especially valuable
collection, comprising stone implements, pottery, articles of shell and bone,
wooden implements and timber, textile fabrics, and basket work, and a number
of human skulls and parts of skeletons. Important additions were also received
from other parts of this country, and from Mexico, Bolivia, Egypt, and India.

The additions to the division of physical anthropology were numerous and
from many sources, illustrating several races of the human family both living
and extinct. Dr. W. L. Abbott also contributed a large series of specimens
illustrative of the anthropoid apes and the monkeys of West Borneo and
Sumatra. Many photographs, facial casts, and measurements of the Indians
of North America were made in the laboratory. ;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

The division of technology was greatly enriched by the transfer from the
Patent Office of many models and original examples of inventions interesting
historically. The subject of firearms is most fully represented in the collec-
tion, which, however, also includes printing presses, sewing machines, type-
writers, electrical inventions, steam machinery, time bank locks, looms, spinning
and knitting machinery, ete. Another notable accession to this division con-
sisted. of about 150 pieces of apparatus devised and used by Dr. Alexander
Graham Bell in his earliest telephone experiments. To the War Department,
and also personally to Col. A. H. Russell, U. S. Army, the museum is indebted
for several interesting examples of firearms.

The collection in the division of history was increased by many valuable loans
and gifts. By far the most noteworthy object among the loans was the flag
which floated over Fort McHenry during its bombardment by the British fleet
on the night of September 13-14, 1814, and made famous as the ‘“ Star Spangled
Banner” by the verses of Francis Scott Key, an eyewitness of the fight. This
flag, retained by Col. George Armistead, the commander of the fort, descended
to his grandson, Mr. Eben Appleton, of New York, who has most generously
allowed it to be exhibited to the public. It is much tattered and worn, and
measures 52 feet .10 inches long by 27 feet 6 inches wide. A collection of 175
pieces of Lowestoft china and cut glass, used at Mount Vernon in the time of
Washington, was deposited by Miss Nannie R. Heth. Among the bequests may
be mentioned a gold-mounted sword and a silver pitcher presented to J.*Bank-
head Magruder by citizens of Virginia and Maryland, and a gold ring given
by Richard Somers to Stephen Decatur just before the heroic death of the
former on the Jntrepid in the war with Tripoli in 1804. The collections of the
Colonial Dames of America and of the Daughters of the American Revolution
were both increased by the addition of a number of interesting objects.

Miss E. R. Scidmore deposited 92 pieces of porcelains and some bronze, jade,
and lacquer objects. Fifteen musical instruments were presented, mostly of
primitive origin, though some are of historical interest. The principal addi-
tions in graphic arts were contained among the models from the Patent Office,
consisting mainly of early devices now of extreme interest in illustrating the
history of photography.

The department of biology received, as in former years, important contribu-
tions, chiefly of mammals and birds, from Dr. W. L. Abbott and Dr. E. A.
Mearns, U. S. Army, the former making collections in Sumatra and south-
western Borneo, the latter in the Philippine Islands. Especially interesting
for the purposes of comparison as well as for exhibition, was a series of 166
antlers and 26 scalps of the American elk, some of unusual size, from the
State of Wyoming.

In most of the other zoological groups the additions were extensive and
representative of many parts of the world. Mr. Robert Ridgway, who spent
about four months in Costa Rica collecting material and information for use
in connection with his monograph on the birds of North and Middle America,
brought back a large number of specimens. The Bureau of Fisheries made
important transfers of both fishes and marine invertebrates, largely obtained
during the explorations of the steamer Albatross in the Pacific Ocean. The
collection of insects was increased by about 53,000 specimens, mostly American,
although valuable contributions were also received from Europe.

Through recent acquisitions, the division of mollusks now possesses authen-
tically named specimens of 1,330 species of the land shells of the Philippine
Islands, of which about 1,500 species have been described. The transfer to
Washington from the museum of Yale University of the main part of the col-

88292—sm 1908S——4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

lections of marine invertebrates obtained during the early seacoast work of
the Bureau of Fisheries, and placed in the care of Prof. A. E. Verrill for
study and description, has added a large number of types and a still greater
number of species not previously represented in the museum.

The collection in helminthology has reached a position of much practical
importance, since it contains a great deal of material resulting from govern-
ment investigations on the diseases of man and of wild and domestic animals.
These specimens have been mainly obtained through the Marine-Hospital Servy-
ice, the Bureau of Animal Industry, and the Bureau of Fisheries. The rapid
growth and exceptionally fine condition of the collection are due to the efforts
of representatives of the two bureaus first mentioned, who are in charge of
the subject.

The division of plants received a total of about 25,000 specimens, mainly
collected in North and Central America, the largest accessions coming from the
Department of Agriculture. Much valuable material was also derived from the
explorations of Dr. J. N. Rose in the southwestern United States and northern
Mexico.

In the department of geology the most important accessions were of fossil
invertebrates, some of which were especially large and noteworthy. Among
them may be mentioned the celebrated Gustav Hambach collection, purchased
by the Smithsonian Institution; the Gilbert collection of Niagaran fossils from
northern Indiana; a very large series of Cambrian fossils, resulting from
explorations in British Columbia and Idaho during the summer of 1907 by
Secretary Charles D. Walcott; many recently described specimens deposited by
the United States Geological Survey; extensive collections from the Paleozoic
formations of Tennessee and Virginia, made by Doctor Bassler; and valuable
exchanges from Germany and France.

Of fossil vertebrates there were two especially important additions. One con-
sisted of a large number of rare species of reptiles and mammals from various
horizons in the United States and South America, obtained through exchange
with the American Museum of Natural History; the other of the remains of
several species of fossil mammals, in a more or less fragmentary condition, col-
lected by Mr. Gilmore on the Smithsonian expedition to Alaska. Among other
additions to the department were series of rocks and ores, mainly from the
Geological Survey, a number of rare minerals, and three meteorites.

CARE AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

As collections are received at the museum they are assigned to the divisions
to which they belong, and are at once labeled and recorded as to their origin,
in order to insure their identity and future usefulness. The work of classifica-
tion and systematic arrangement which follows requires the naming of the
objects or specimens, entailing extensive studies which often result in impor-
tant contributions to knowledge. The staff of employees directly connected
with the handling of the collections has always been much too small to per-
form this duty in a thoroughly satisfactory manner, and, while the safety of the
collections has been secured by constant vigilance, it can not be said that their
maintenance has been all that was desirable. These conditions may, of course,
be largely attributed to the inadequate quarters afforded, but many of the diffi-
culties arising from this cause might readily have been overcome with a greater
force of helpers.

The routine work of caring for the collections is the same from year to year,
and scarcely merits repetition in this connection. There was the customary
overhauling and cleaning of the dried specimens and of the drawers and cases
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4]

containing them; the frequent poisoning of many thousands of objects subject
to destruction by insect pests, and the renewal of alcohol on liquid prepara-
tions, or the filling up of tanks, jars, and vials from which the preservative had
more or less evaporated. The labeling and cataloguing of individual specimens
as identified went on continuously, and, besides, there was the preparation of
specimens for the reserve series and exhibition halls, the selection and arrange-
ment of duplicates for distribution, and the identification of material received
from several hundred persons, as happens every year.

Of investigations conducted during the year mention may be made of de-
tailed studies on the examples of basketry and traps contained in Doctor
Abbott’s collection from southwestern Malaysia by Prof. O. T. Mason, who
also prepared a paper entitled “ Vocabulary of Malaysian basketwork.”’ Dr.
Walter Hough completed a paper on the manufacture of pulque wine and began
a study of the Malaysian blowguns received from Doctor Abbott. The Jewish
ceremonial objects in the National Museum were described and illustrated by
Dr. Cyrus Adler and Dr. I. M. Casanowicz, and the latter has in progress an
account of the collection of rosaries. In prehistoric archeology investigations
were conducted by Mr. William H. Holmes and Dr. J. W. Fewkes. Dr. Ales
Hrdli¢ka continued his studies on the human skeleton of different races and
completed a manuscript entitled ‘“ Physiological and medical observations among
the Indians of the Southwest and northern Mexico.”

The principal researches based upon the collections in biology related to the
following subjects: The fossil cetaceans of North America; the birds of North
and Middle America; the reptiles of Japan, the Philippine Islands, and North
America; the mosquitoes of North and Central America and the West Indies;
the mollusks and brachiopods of the eastern Pacific Ocean collected by the
Fisheries steamer Albatross; crustacea from Hast Africa and the Antarctic
Ocean; the crinoid collection of the museum; the corals of the Hawaiian
Islands; animal parasites; and the cacti, ferns, and other groups of plants. In
addition to the above many collections were being studied for the museum by
specialists attached to other institutions.

The material obtained during his visit to Meteor Crater, Canyon Diablo,
in May, 1907, was the subject of investigation by Dr. George P. Merrill, ac-
cording to whose conclusions the well-known and peculiar depression existing
there was caused by impact, presumably of a large meteor. Studies were also
conducted on the meteorites in the museum collection by Doctor Merrill, assisted
by Mr. Wirt Tassin. Extensive investigations were carried on by Dr. R. S.
Bassler on fossil invertebrates, by Mr. J. W. Gidley on fossil mammals, by
Mr. C. W. Gilmore on fossil reptiles, and by assistants of the Geological Survey
on fossil plants.

EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS.

For some years past there has been no opportunity to increase the exhibition
collections, except in a very limited way, for in nearly all the halls the cases
are so crowded as to interfere with the circulation of visitors and objects can
not be viewed to advantage. This does not mean, however, that these collec-
tions require any less attention than before, since their maintenance demands
constant oversight and labor. Moreover, changes are often made by replacing
older collections with others more recently acquired and of greater present
interest.

From the new material obtained for the Jamestown Exposition and returned
during the winter, as many articles as possible were placed on exhibition.
The loan collections of General Wood and Senator Beveridge were installed in
-

42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

the west hall. The Abbott cases in the gallery of the same hall were rearranged,
and the entire Philippine collection, as far as it has been prepared for exhibi-
tion, was placed in the gallery of the Pueblo court. The objects of Jewish
religious ceremonial from Mr. Benguiat were incorporated in the collection
previously received from him. A special case of Egyptian antiquities and a
series of Egyptian (Coptic) textiles were arranged, and additions were made
to the Bible collection. In the divisions of technology and history places were
found for nearly all of the objects obtained. The interesting series of portraits
of distinguished physicians, prepared for the Jamestown Exposition; was in-
stalled with the collection of medicine, and the loan collection of Miss Scidmore,
on the ceramic gallery.

The principal additions to the exhibition series of the department of biology
consisted of a skeleton of Baird’s beaked whale, a rare species, and of a group
of polar bears obtained on the Ziegler arctic expedition and presented by Mrs.
Ziegler. The exhibit of insects, which has been in preparation for some time,
was completed to the extent permitted by the space available. In the exhibi-
tion halls of the department of geology comparatively few additions or changes
were made.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Duplicate specimens, mostly biological and geological, separated from the col-
lections during the progress of investigations were disposed of to the number of
about 26,000. About 14,000 of these were used in making exchanges with
establishments and individuals both at home and abroad, whereby the collec-
tions of the museum received new material to approximately the same extent.
The other 12,000 specimens were utilized in the customary way to advance the
interests of teaching, having been distributed in carefully labeled and classified
sets to educational establishments throughout the country. Besides the above,
over 9,000 specimens were sent to specialists for study, partly for the publica-
tions of the museum and partly to aid in work carried on under other auspices.

The total number of visitors to the public halls was about 300,000, a daily
average of over 960 persons. This is to be regarded as a large attendance, con-
sidering that the buildings are opened only on week days and during official.
hours. That the National Museum is not serving its full purpose in this direc-
tion, however, is evidenced by the experiences of museums in other large cities,
where evening and Sunday opening insures a very much greater attendance by
extending to the working people the opportunity of examining the collections.

The publications of the year comprised the annual report for 1907, volumes
32 and 33, and part of volume 34 of the proceedings, five volumes of bulletins,
and several papers belonging to the contributions from the national herbarium,
all of which, except the annual or administrative report, are descriptive of
museum collections.

The library of the museum contains 33,564 volumes, 52,112 unbound papers,
and a number of manuscripts, the additions during the year having consisted
of 3,257 books, 4,470 pamphlets, and 247 parts of volumes. This library is a
purely technical one, confined to that class of publications bearing upon the
subjects covered by the museum collections, but its means of increment are so
limited as to make it very difficult to keep up those studies which are essential
to the classification of the collections. The appropriation for the purchase of
books is entirely inadequate, and, in fact, the principal increase is effected
through exchanges and gifts.

During the summer of 1907 the museum, in conjunction with the Institution,
participated in the Jamestown Tercentennial Exposition, and the International
Maritime Exposition at Bordeaux, France, the arrangements for which were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

described in the last report. The exhibit at the former exposition was designed
to illustrate the aboriginal, colonial, and national history of America, while
the entire collection sent to Bordeaux by the Government was assembled,
installed, and maintained under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, ©
represented by Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, administrative assistant of the museum.
The display at Jamestown contained many new groups and series of objects
specially prepared or obtained for the purpose, which have since been incor-
porated in the museum collections.

Respectfully submitted.
RICHARD RATHBUN,

Assistant Secretary, in charge of U. S. National Museum.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX II.

REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the Bureau of American Ethnology for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908:

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

The operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1908, conducted in accordance with the act of Congress making
provision for continuing researches relating to the American Indians under
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, were carried forward in conformity
with the plan of operations approved by the Secretary May 25, 1907.

As in previous years, the systematic ethnologic work of the bureau was
intrusted mainly to the regular scientific staff, which comprises eight members.
This force is not large enough, however, to give adequate attention to more
than a limited portion of the great field of research afforded by the hundreds
of tribes, and the bureau has sought to supply the deficiency in a measure by
enlisting the aid of other specialists in various branches of the ethnologic work.
By this means it is able to extend its researches in several directions at a
comparatvely modest outlay. While seeking to cover in the most comprehen-
sive manner the whole range of American ethnology, the bureau has taken par-
ticular care to avoid entering upon researches that are likely to be provided for
by other agencies, public or private. The results sought by the bureau are:
(1) Acquirement of a thorough knowledge of the tribes, their origin, relation-
ship to one another and to the whites, location, numbers, capacity for civiliza-
tion, claim to territory, and their interests generally, for the practical purposes
of government; and (2) the completion of a systematic and well-rounded
record of the tribes for historic and scientific purposes before their aboriginal
characteristics and culture are too greatly modified or are completely lost.

During the year researches were carried on in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado,
Texas, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, and Ontario. Investigations in the field were
more than usually limited on account of the necessity of retaining nearly all of
the ethnologic force in the office for the purpose of completing the revision of
their various articles for the second part of the Handbook of American Indians,
and in preparing additional articles on subjects overlooked in the first writing
or that are based on data recently collected.

The chief remained in the office during nearly the entire year, dividing his
time between administrative duties and ethnologic investigations and writing.
The completion of numerous articles for the second part of the Handbook of
American Indians, the revision of reports and bulletins, and the examination of
various manuscripts submitted for publication especially claimed his attention.
Aside from these occupations, his duties as honorary curator of the division of
prehistoric archeology in the National Museum and as curator of the National
Gallery of Art absorbed a portion of his time. During the year much attention
was given to the collections of the division of prehistoric archeology in the
National Museum, especially to their classification with the view of removal in

44
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

the near future to the new National Museum building. In the same connection
the chief carried forward the preparation of his Handbook on the Stone Imple-
ments of Northern America.

In October the chief was called on to make an Official visit to the Jamestown
Exposition for the purpose of examining the exhibits of the Institution and
superintending necessary repairs. In April he was assigned the very pleasant
duty of visiting Detroit, Mich., in company with the Secretary, for the purpose
of inspecting the great collection of art works recently presented to the Smith-
sonian Institution by Mr. Charles L. Freer. On this occasion he availed himself
of the opportunity of examining the interesting collections of art and ethnology
preserved in the Detroit museum of art.

In June the chief was selected to represent the Institution as a member of the
delegation of Americans appointed by the Department of State to attend the Pan-
American Scientific Congress to be held in Santiago, Chile, beginning December
25, 1908, and he began at once the preparation of a paper to be read before the
congress, the subject chosen being “The Peopling of America.”

At the beginning of the year Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, was in the
office engaged in preparing reports on her recent researches in the field. Her
work at Taos, Santa Clara, and other Rio Grande pueblos was not so well ad-
vanced as to admit of final treatment, but progress was made in the classification
and elaboration of the data thus far collected. Principal attention was given while
in the office to the completion of papers relating to the medicinal and food plants
of the Zuni Indians, the pantheon of the Zufi religious system, the symbolism of
Pueblo decorative art, and the preparation of wool for weaving among the
Pueblo and Navaho tribes.

On May 28 Mrs. Stevenson again took the field in the Rio Grande Valley
with the view of continuing her investigations among the Taos, Santa Clara,
San Ildefonso, and other Pueblo groups, and at the close of the year she was
able to report satisfactory progress in this work.

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist, was engaged during the year on the Handbook
of American Indians, the editorial work of which has proved extremely arduous
and difficult. This work is in two parts: Part 1, A-M, was issued from the
press in March, 1907, and the edition became practically exhausted in a few
months. Indeed the demand for the work has been so great that the bureau
has found it impossible to supply even a third of the copies requested by cor-
respondents. The quota under control of the Superintendent of Documents
also was soon exhausted, necessitating the reprinting of an edition of 500
copies (the limit allowed by law) in order to fill the orders received. The
main body of part 2 was in type at the close of the fiscal year, and about
250 pages had been finally printed, though progress in proof reading was ex-
ceedingly slow on account of the great diversity of the topics treated and the
difficulty of preparing or of bringing to date numbers of articles relating often
to obscure tribes and subjects. It is expected that the second part will be
ready for distribution during the coming winter. In the editorial work Mr.
Hodge had the assistance of all the members of the staff of the bureau, and
especially of Mrs. Frances S. Nichols, who devoted her entire time to the task.
In addition the following specialists rendered all possible assistance in their
particular fields: Mr. S. A. Barrett, of the University of California; Rev.
W. M. Beauchamp, of Syracuse; Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University ;
Dr. Herbert E. Bolton, of the University of Texas; Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr.;
Dr. Alexander F. Chamberlain, of Clark University; Mr. Stewart Culin, of
the Brooklyn Institute Museum; Dr. Roland B. Dixon, of Harvard University ;
Dr. George A. Dorsey, of the Field Museum of Natural History; Mr. J. P.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Dunn, of Indianapolis; Mr. Wilberforce Eames, of the New York Public
Library ; Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U. S. N.; Dr. Livingston Farrand, of Columbian
University ; Miss Alice C. Fletcher, of Washington; Mr. Gerard Fowke, of St.
Louis; Mr. Merrill E. Gates, of the Indian Rights Association; Mr. William
R. Gerard, of New York; Dr. P. E. Goddard, of the University of California ;
Dr. George Bird Grinnell, of New York; Mr. Henry W. Henshaw, of the United
States Biological Survey; Dr. Edgar L. Hewett, of the Archeological Institute
of America; Dr. Walter Hough and Dr. AleS Hrdlicka, of the United States
National Museum; Dr. William Jones, of the Field Museum of Natural History ;
Dr. A. lL. Kroeber, of the University of California; Mr. Francis La Flesche,
of Washington; Dr. A. B. Lewis, of the Field Museum of Natural History ;
Dr. Charles F. Lummis, of Los Angeles; Dr. O. 'T. Mason, of the United States
National Museum; Mr. Joseph D. McGuire, of Washington; Rey. Leopold Oster-
mann, of Arizona; Mr. Doane Robinson, of the South Dakota Historical So-
ciety ; Mr. Edward Sapir and Mr. Frank G. Speck, of the University of Pennsyl-
vania; Mr. C. C. Willoughby, of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge; and Dr.
Clark Wissler, of the American Museum of Natural History. I take this occa-
sion to express the appreciation of the bureau for the valuable aid so gener-
ously rendered by these students, without which it would not have been pos-
sible to make the work either as complete or as accurate as it is.

Throughout the year Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained in the office,
occupied either in the preparation of articles intended for the second part of
the Handbook of American Indians or in preparing answers to ethnologic in-
quiries made by correspondents of the bureau. His principal work for the
handbook was an elaborate and detailed study of the numerical strength of the
aboriginal population north of Mexico from the time of their first contact with
the whites. This important foundation study of American ethnology has never
before been undertaken in a systematic and comprehensive manner, and the result
proves of much scientific interest. Contrary to the opinion frequently advanced
on superficial investigation, the Indians have not increased in number since
their first contact with civilized man, but have decreased by fully two-thirds,
if not three-fourths. California alone, the most populous large section during
the aboriginal period, contained probably as many Indians as are now officially
recognized in the whole United States. The causes of decrease in each geo-
graphic section are set forth in detail in chronologic sequence in Mr. Mooney’s
study. -

During the year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was occupied entirely
with work in the office, principally in connection with the Indian languages of
Louisiana and Texas. He finished the analytic dictionary of the Tunica
language and compiled similar dictionaries of Chitimacha, Attacapa, and Ton-
kawa. All the extant Comecrudo and Cotoname material, as well as the material
pertaining to related tribes contained in Fray Bartholome Garcia’s Manual
para administrar los sacramentos (Mexico, 1760), was similarly arranged, and
in addition a comparative vocabulary was constructed which embraces the last-
mentioned data as well as the Karankawa and Tonkawa. During the months of
May and June another dictionary was prepared, embracing all the Biloxi
linguistic material collected by Doctor Gatschet and Mr. J. O. Dorsey in 1886,
1892, and 1893. The material in this last work is exceptionally full and com-
plete. The Comecrudo and Cotoname, the material extracted from Garcia’s
catechism, and the Biloxi, are nearly ready for the press. The languages
referred to above, with the addition of the Natchez, include practically all of
those in the eastern and southern United States that are in immediate danger
of extinction, The information regarding most of them is very limited, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

in order that the precious material may not by any misadventure be destroyed,
it should be published at an early date.

Besides work strictly linguistic, Doctor Swanton had in hand a paper on
the tribes of the lower Mississippi Valley and neighboring coast of the Gulf
of Mexico. This can not be completed, however, until additional researches
among the tribes in question have been made.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, spent July and August largely in the
preparation of his report on the excavation and repair of the Casa Grande
ruins, Arizona, during the preceding fiscal year, which was printed in the quar-
terly issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Doctor Fewkes was in the Southwest from October 24, 1907, to the end of the
fiscal year. From November to the middle of March he was in charge of the
excavation and repair work at Casa Grande, for which there was available the
sum of $3,000, appropriated by Congress, to be expended under the direction of *
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The season’s operations at Casa
Grande began with excavations in Compound B, the second in size of the great
compounds which form the Casa Grande group. This was found to be a rec-
tangular area inclosed by a massive wall. Within this are many buildings, the
majority of which were once used for ceremonial and communal purposes. On
excavation it was ascertained that the two great pyramids in Compound B are
terraced and that they contain seven distinct floors. The remains of small,
fragile walled houses, resembling Pima jacales, were found upon the tops of
these pyramids, and in the neighboring plazas subterranean rooms, with cemented
floors and fireplaces, were unearthed under the massive walls. This compound
was thoroughly repaired with Portland cement, and drains were built to carry
off the surface water. A roof was built over the subterranean room, the de-
eayed upright logs that once supported the walls were replaced with cedar
posts, and other steps were taken for the permanent preservation of these
interesting remains. .

The walls of Compounds C and D were traced throughout; in the middle of
the latter compound is a large building, the ground plan of which resembles
Casa Grande. The most extensive structure excavated at Casa Grande is a
clan house, a building 200 feet long, with 11 rooms whose massive walls inclose
a plaza. In the middle of the central room of this cluster there is a seat, called
by the Pima Indians “the seat of Montezuma.” On the north side there is a
burial chamber, the walls of which are decorated in several colors. This room
contains a burial cyst in which was found the skeleton of a priest surrounded
by ceremonial paraphernalia. The bases of the walls of the clan house were
protected with cement, and drains were built to carry off water. For the con-
venience and information of visitors all the buildings excavated were appro-
priately labeled, and placards containing historical data were posted at various
points. Although the appropriation was not sufficient for completing the work
of excavation and repair of the Casa Grande group, the amount available made
it possible to present a type ruin showing the general character of the ancient
pueblo remains in the Gila and lower Salt River valleys.

At the close of the work at Casa Grande, Doctor Fewkes was able to make
a comparative study of the mounds in the neighborhood of Phoenix, Mesa, and
Tempe, and also of the ancient habitations on the Pima Reservation. Several
large ruins in the vicinity of Tucson were visited, and an extensive ruin, known
to the Pima and Papago as Shakayuma, was examined near the northwestern
end of the Tucson Mountains. Several ancient reservoirs, now called ‘‘ Indian
tanks,” situated east of Casa Grande, along the trail of the early Spanish dis-
coverers, were identified by their historic names. In a reconnoissance down
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

San Pedro River to its junction with the Gila a number of ruins were discovered
on both banks of the San Pedro and of Arayvaipa Creek. A visit was also made
to the imposing cliff houses, near Roosevelt dam, lately declared national monu-
ments by executive proclamation. Ruins near the mouth of Tonto River were
likewise examined.

At the close of April, by direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, Doctor Fewkes proceeded to the Mesa Verde National Park in southern
Colorado, where he took charge of the excavation and repair work of the
celebrated Spruce-Tree House. This ruin was thoroughly excavated and its
walls were repaired and put in good condition, in order that it might serve as
a type ruin of the cliff dwellings of the Mesa Verde National Park. One hun-
dred and fourteen rooms and eight kivas were excavated; two of the kivas
were furnished with roofs reconstructed like aboriginal kiva roofs in Peabody
House; an approach to the ruin was graded and drained, and labels were placed
at convenient points for the information of visitors. Several large rooms,
hitherto unknown, were unearthed, and the structure of the kivas was carefully
studied. In order to deflect the water that fell on the ruin from the rim of
the canyon, causing great damage, a channel 300 feet long was blasted out of
the rock on top of the cliff. Two collections of considerable size were made,
one at Casa Grande and the other at Spruce-Tree House. The former includes
many rare and several unique objects that shed much light on our knowledge
of the culture of the prehistoric inhabitants of the Casa Grande of the Gila;
the latter includes skulls, pottery of rare forms and decoration, stone and
wooden implements, basketry, cloth and other woven fabrics, sandals, and bone
implements of various kinds. The objects from the Spruce-Tree House will be
the first large accession by the National Museum of collections of objects from
the Mesa Verde ruins. Doctor Fewkes completed his work at Spruce-Tree
House on June 27.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, remained in the office during the entire year.
Much time was devoted to the collection and preparation of linguistic data for
a sketch of Iroquoian grammar as exemplified by the Onondaga and the
Mohawk, with illustrative examples from the Cayuga, Seneca, and Tuscarora
dialects, for the forthcoming Handbook of American Indian Languages. In
pursuing these studies Mr. Hewitt was fortunate in obtaining data which
enabled him to supply translations of a number of very important archaic
political and diplomatic terms in the native texts embodying the founding,
constitution, and structure of the government of the League of the Iroquois.
The meanings of these terms are now practically lost among those who speak
the Iroquoian languages. As time permitted, these texts were studied and
annotated for incorporation in a monograph on the above-mentioned phases
of the government of the League of the Iroquois, a work which hitherto has
not been seriously undertaken because of its cumbrousness, its extremely com-
plicated character, and the great difficulty in recording the native material
expressed in tens of thousands of words.

In addition to these studies Mr. Hewitt prepared for the Handbook of
American Indians descriptions of the early mission towns and villages of the
Iroquois tribes, brief biographical sketches of Red Jacket (Shagoyewatha) and
Thayendanegen (Joseph Brant), and wrote several articles on Iroquois subjects.

From time to time Mr. Hewitt was called on to assist also in preparing data
of an ethnologic nature for replies to correspondents of the office.

During the greater part of the year Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist, devoted
attention chiefly to the preparation of the catalogue of books and papers relat-
ing to the Hawaiian Islands. After the number of titles had reached about
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

4,000 the Institution’s committee on printing suggested some modification of
the plan of the catalogue which necessitated a change in the form of the titles
of periodicals—about one-third of the entire list. In connection with this work
Doctor Thomas made supplementary examinations of works in the libraries
of Washington, especially the Library of Congress and the libraries of the
Department of Agriculture and the National Museum, and in those of Boston
and Worcester. He carried on also, so far as time would permit, the prepara-
tion of subject cross-references.

Doctor Thomas continued to assist in the preparation of part 2 of the
Handbook of American Indians, furnishing a number of articles, especially
biographies, and assisting the editor in the reading of proofs, particularly
with the view of detecting omissions, lack of uniformity in names, ete.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES,

In addition to the systematic investigations conducted by members of the
bureau staff, researches of considerable importance were undertaken by col-
laborators of distinction. Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist of the bureau,
practically completed his work on the Handbook of American Indian Languages,
and at the close of the year a large part of the manuscript of volume 1 had been
submitted to the bureau. This volume comprises an extended introduction by
Doctor Boas, and a number of studies of selected languages, by special students,
designed to illustrate the introductory discussion. With the approval of the
Secretary the first of these studies—the Athapascan (Hupa)—by Dr. Pliny E.
Goddard, was submitted to the Public Printer, with the view of having it placed
in type for the use of Doctor Boas in preparing other sections for the press. The
highly technical nature of the typesetting made this procedure necessary. Field
work required in completing the handbook was limited to a brief visit by Doctor
Boas to the Carlisle Indian School in Pennsylvania and to certain investigations
among the remnant of the Tutelo tribe in Ontario, conducted by Mr. Leo J. F.
Frachtenburg.

Dr. Herbert E. Bolton continued his studies relating to the tribes of Texas, so
far as the limited time at his disposal permitted, but he was not able to submit
the first installment of manuscript at the close of the year, as was expected. An
outline of the work undertaken by Docton Bolton was presented in the last
annual report.

During the year for the first time the study of native Indian music was se-
riously taken up by the bureau. Miss Frances Densmore was commissioned to
conduct certain investigations relating to the musical features of the grand
medicine ceremony of the Chippewa on the White Earth Reservation, Minn.
The phonograph was employed in recording the songs, and after the close of
the ceremony and visits to other Indian settlements Miss Densmore was called
to Washington, where she reproduced her records and engaged successfully
in recording songs of members of the various Indian delegations visiting the
capital. A preliminary report was submitted by Miss Densmore, with the
understanding that it is not to be printed until additional researches have been
made in the same and related fields. The collection of phonographic records
thus far obtained is extensive and the investigation promises results of excep-
tional interest and scientific value.

During the year arrangements were made to accept for publication as a
bulletin of the bureau a report on certain explorations among the ancient
mounds of Missouri by Mr. Gerard Fowke. These explorations were under-
taken under the auspices of the Archeological Institute of America, but form
an appropriate addition to the work of the bureau in this particular field. A
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

part of the collections made by the explorer was presented to the National
Museum by the Archeological Institute.

It is proper that appreciation of the gratuitous labors of Dr. Nathaniel B.
Emerson in editing and proof reading his memoir on the “ Unwritten literature
of Hawaii,” accepted for publication during the year as Bulletin 38, and also
the important part taken in the preparation of the “ List of works relating to
Hawaii,” assigned to Bulletin 41, by Mr. Howard M. Ballou, should be ac-
knowledged in this connection.

PRESERVATION OF ANTIQUITIES,

The bureau maintained its interest in the antiquities of the country during
the year. Bulletin 35, The Antiquities of the Upper Gila and Salt River Val-
leys in Arizona and New Mexico, by Dr. Walter Hough, was issued. ‘The $3,000
appropriated by Congress for the excavation, repair, and preservation of Casa
Grande ruin in Arizona, and the $2,000 allotted by the Interior Department for
similar work among the cliff dwellers of the Mesa Verde National Park in
Colorado, were expended under the immediate auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution, the execution of the work being intrusted to Dr. J. Walter Fewkes,
ethnologist, as elsewhere reported.

Progress was made in the preparation of a catalogue of antiquities, and valu-
able data in this field were collected by Mr. W. B. Douglas, of the General Land
Office, whose official labors recently brought him into contact with the antiqui-
ties of southeastern Utah.

During the year, by executive proclamation, several additions were made to
the growing list of national monuments. Three of these are of especial archeo-
logical interest, namely, the Tonto National Monument, situated in the Tonto
drainage basin, Gila County, Ariz., including two cliff dwellings not yet reported
on in detail; the Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument, in the Gila National
Forest in New Mexico, comprising the group of cliff dwellings described in the
bureau’s Bulletin 35 (p. 30), and the Grand Canyon National Monument, com-
prising within its limits the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, in which are situ-
ated innumerable antiquities, including cliff dwellings, pueblos, dwelling sites,
and burial places. The cliff dwellings are found mainly in the walls of the
canyon, while the other remains are scattered along the margins of the plateaus.

COLLECTIONS,

The collections acquired during the year and transferred according to custom
to the National Museum are not equal in importance to those of the preceding
year. They comprise 14 accessions, the most noteworthy being collections of
stone relics from the Potomac Valley, by G. Wylie Gill and W. H. Holmes; a
collection of ethnologic material obtained from the Tahltan Indians of British
Columbia, by Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U. 8S. Navy; a collection of stone implements
from Washington State, by C. W. Wiegel; and relics and human bones from
ancient burial places in Missouri, by Gerard Fowke.

PUBLICATIONS.

During the year progress was made on the Handbook of American Indians,
and on the Handbook of American Indian Languages, as mentioned on other
pages.

The edition of the twenty-fifth annual report, containing papers by Dr.
J. Walter Fewkes on his explorations in the West Indies and in Mexico, was
received from the Public Printer in September; Bulletin 30, the Handbook of
American Indians, part 1, in March; Bulletin 33, Skeletal Remains Suggesting
or Attributed to Early Man in America, in November; and Bulletin 35,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

Antiquities of the Upper Gila and Salt River valleys in Arizona and New
Mexico, in February. The twenty-sixth annual report was in the bindery at
the close of the year. At that time Bulletin 34, Physiological and Medical
Observations among the Indians of Southwestern United States and Northern
Mexico, by Dr. AleS Hrdli¢ka, was for the main part in stereotype form, while
Bulletin 88, Unwritten Literature of Hawaii, by Dr. Nathaniel B. Emerson, the
manuscript of which was transmitted to the Public Printer early in the year,
was largely in pages. The manuscript of Bulletin 39, Tlingit Texts and Myths,
by Dr. John R. Swanton, and of a section of Bulletin 40, Handbook of the
American Indian Languages, was also transmitted to the Public Printer.

The distribution of publications was continued as in former years. Fifteen
hundred copies of the twenty-fifth annual report, and a like number of Bulletins
383 and 85, were distributed to the regular recipients, most of whom sent their
own publications in exchange.

There was a greater demand for the publications of the bureau than during
previous years. The great increase in the number of public libraries and the
multiplication of demands from the public generally, resulted in the almost
immediate exhaustion of the supply (3,500 copies) allotted to the bureau.
During the year the bureau received from outside sources a number of the
earlier issues of its reports and was thus able to respond to numerous requests
from Members of Congress for complete sets, except the first annual report, the
edition of which is entirely exhausted. About 1,000 copies of the twenty-fifth
annual report, as well as numerous copies of the other annuals, bulletins, and
separate papers, were distributed in response to special requests, presented
largely through Members of Congress.

LINGUISTIC MANUSCRIPTS.

The archives of the bureau contain 1,659 manuscripts, mainly linguistic.
The card catalogue of these manuscripts begun in the preceding year and
completed during the year comprises more than 14,000 titles, which give as
completely as possible the stock language, dialect, collector, and locality, as
well as the character and the date, of the manuscript. While it was not pos-
sible in every instance to supply all the information called for under these
heads, the catalogue is found to meet all ordinary requirements of reference.
There were several important additions to the collection of manuscripts during
the year, mainly through purchase. Prominent among linguistic students who
have recently submitted the results of their labors to the bureau are Mr. Albert
B. Reagan, who is making important investigations among the Hoh and the
Quileute Indians of Washington, and Mr. J. P. Dunn, a leading authority on
the Algonquian languages of the Middle West.

Owing to the number and bulk of the bureau’s manuscripts, it is not possible
to place them all in the fireproof vault, and about half the material is arranged
in file cases, convenient of access. These manuscripts may be classified as:
(1) dictionaries and vocabularies; (2) grammars, and (3) texts. By far the
greater number are vocabularies, of varying length and completeness. Usually
they give the Indian name and English equivalent without recording the deriva-
tion or current usage of the term given. Of greatest value are the several
dictionaries, among them a Dhegiha (Siouan) dictionary prepared by the late
Rey. J. Owen Dorsey, containing about 26,000 words; the Peoria dictionary of
Dr. A. 8. Gatschet; an Abnaki dictionary in three thick folio volumes, prepared
by the Rey. Eugene Vetromile, by whom it was deposited with the bureau;

and a dictionary, in five volumes, of the Choctaw tongue, by the Rey. Cyrus
Byington.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

In the division of illustrations 2,810 photographic prints were made for use
in illustrating publications, for correspondents, and for the cataloguing of
negatives, which is now well in hand. A large number of prints of Indian
subjects were acquired by purchase and filed for reference and for future use
as illustrations. The photographic work included the making of 366 negatives,
310 of these being portraits of Indians of visiting delegations. The importance
of the collection of portraits thus being brought together is indicated by the
list of tribes represented, and is especially emphasized by the fact that these
delegations usually consist of the best representatives of the tribes and hence
may serve as types of the race. The negatives are 63 by 8% inches in size.

The tribes represented are as follows: Apache (Apache proper, Arizona and
New Mexico; Chiricahua band. held as prisoners in Oklahoma); Arapaho of
northern Wyoming and southern Oklahoma; Cheyenne of northern Montana
and southern Oklahoma; Chippewa (White Earth, Red Lake, and Mille Lac
bands) ; Choctaw, Coeur d’Aléne; Creek, Crow, Eskimo of Labrador; Flathead,
Iowa, Kickapoo, Omaha, Osage, Oto, Pawnee, Pima, Potawatomi, San Blas
(Argona tribe, Rio Diablo, south of Panama); Shoshoni, Sioux, Teton Sioux
(including Brulé, Ogalala, Hunkpapa, and Sihasapa), and Yankton.

LIBRARY.

Good progress was made in accessioning and cataloguing the newly acquired
books, pamphlets, and periodicals. In all there were received and recorded
during the year 392 volumes, SOO pamphlets, and the current issues of upward
of 500 serials, while about 600 volumes were bound at the Government Printing
Office. The library now contains 14,022 volumes, 10,600 pamphlets, and several
thousand numbers of periodicals relating to anthropology, most of which have
been received by exchange. The purchase of books and periodicals has been
restricted to such as relate to the bureau’s researches.

Respectfully submitted.
W. H. HotmMEs, Chief of Bureau.

Dr. ‘CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX ITI.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the international exchange service during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908:

In addition to carrying out the second term of the clause of the will estab-
lishing the Smithsonian Institution—‘the diffusion of knowledge among
men ”—which was the occasion for the inauguration of this work in 1850, the
ever-increasing usefulness of the system of international exchanges continues
an important aid in the advancement of scientific knowledge throughout the
world. Hundreds of thousands of works, containing, among other matters of
importance, the details of the latest discoveries and inventions, are annually
brought to this country, while a knowledge of everything of like nature
originating here is, through this medium, disseminated abroad.

The growth of this system to its present comprehensive proportions has been
made possible through the action of Congress and of our Government in
negotiating treaties to place the exchange of government and scientific and
literary publications upon a definite, legal, international footing. A resolution,
approved March 2, 1867, provides that 50 copies of all documents printed by
order of either House of Congress, and also that 50 copies of all publications
issued by any department or bureau of the Government shall be placed at the
disposition of the Joint Committee on the Library for exchange with foreign
countries through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution. By a subsequent
resolution, which was approved March 2, 1901, the number of sets of documents
to be exchanged with foreign countries was increased to 100—the results of this
governmental exchange through the Institution to inure to the benefit of the
Library of Congress.

In addition to these two acts of the Congress of the United States, an im-
portant convention was signed at Brussels in 1886, which resulted for this
country in a treaty for the international exchange of official documents and
scientific and literary publications, ratified by the Senate and proclaimed by
the President in 1889. Many nations not parties to this convention have since
accepted its provisions and are conducting international exchange bureaus.

The appropriation by Congress for the service during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1908, was $32,200 (an increase of $3,400 over the preceding year),
and the sum collected on account of repayments was $3,352.69, making the
total available resources for international exchanges $35,552.69. Through this
increase in the appropriation it was possible to inaugurate a system of work
which has long been in mind—that of actively seeking returns from foreign
countries for the exchanges sent to them by this Government and its depart-
ments and bureaus. Heretofore, although there has been some effort on the
part of the Institution to secure proper returns, and the bureaus themselves
have taken the matter up from time to time, the United States has been almost
entirely dependent upon the good will of foreign establishments; but in Feb-
ruary, 1908, an active and definite campaign was entered upon to secure
reciprocal returns, the exchange bureau doing the work and bearing the ex-
pense. The result has already been more than satisfactory, but the effort is so
recent that its full fruition could hardly be expected within the year. A number

58
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

of most gratifying acknowledgments have been received from various depart-
ments of the Government regarding this new work.

The transmission of packages has been much more prompt during the past
twelve months than during any like. period in the history of the service. The
increased efficiency that this indicates is due in great measure to the practice
inaugurated during the year of making shipments to all countries at least once
a month. In carrying out this plan it has been necessary to expend consider-
ably more for freight and postage than during previous years, but as the good
results have been so obvious frequent shipments will continue to be made so
long as the appropriations permit of the extra expense.

A communication was received during the year from the Russian Commission
of International Exchanges, requesting, on behalf of the Library Commission of
the Douma, that the United States Government enter into an exchange of par-
liamentary publications with Russia. The matter was taken up with the Libra-
rian of Congress, and while it was considered that the exchange would be a most
desirable one, in the absence of legislation setting apart a copy of the Congres-
sional Record for this purpose permanent arrangements could not at once be
made. The Librarian of Congress, however, succeeded in obtaining a copy of
the Record for this purpose, and the interchange of parliamentary publications
was entered into with Russia in March. As such information as the Congres-
sional Record contains would be of more value if received without delay, send-
ings were made directly by mail, and this practice will be followed in the future.

It may be added in this connection that the French Chamber of Deputies has
also made a request, through the Department of State, for the exchange of
parliamentary documents, and that the matter was communicated to Congress
by the department during the last session. No action was taken, however,
though it is understood that the subject will be given consideration at a future
date.

At the time the convention for the exchange of official documents and scien-
tific and literary publications was entered into at Brussels, in 1886, an agree-
ment was also made between the United States and several other countries for
the immediate exchange of official journals, ete., but in the absence of the nec-
essary legislation by Congress no steps have been taken by the Institution to
carry this agreement into effect. As the subject has now been brought to the
attention of Congress, a sufficient number of copies of the Congressional Record
may be set aside for this purpose. I recommend, however, that the Smith-
sonian Institution seek to execute this agreement by legislation.

The Kingdom of Servia, which was one of the signatories to the Brussels con-
vention of 1886, has never established a bureau of exchanges, and it has been
necessary to forward transmissions to correspondents in that country through
some other medium. Article I of the convention provides that each of the con-
tracting States shall designate an office to take charge of the exchanges, and
with a view to having such a bureau established in Servia the good offices
of the Department of State have been solicited in bringing the matter to the
attention of the Servian officials. While the number of publications at present
exchanged between the United States and Servia is not large, it is hoped that
if Servia will designate some office to take charge of the work it will result in
a fuller interchange of publications between the two countries.

The arrangement of details concerning the shipment of a full set of govern-
ment documents to China having finally been perfected, the first consignment,
consisting of 16 cases, was, under date of February 20, 1908, forwarded to the
American-Chinese publication exchange department of the Shanghai bureau of
foreign affairs—the depository designated by the Government of China. It is
most gratifying to the Institution that after so many years of almost constant
endeavor on its part this interchange of documents has at last been effected.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

As a result of correspondence between the Smithsonian Institution and the
diplomatic envoys from the Republic of Liberia, regarding the establishment of
a bureau of international exchanges in that country and the interchange of offi-
cial documents between the Government of Liberia and the United States, the
department of state at Monrovia has been designated to act as the exchange
intermediary between the two countries, and the proposition to exchange official
publications has been accepted by the envoys. A partial set of United States
Government documents is being made up by the Library of Congress, and will be
forwarded to Liberia as soon as received at the Institution.

Negotiations conducted through diplomatic channels have enabled the United
States to enter into arrangements with the Government of Montenegro to ex-
change official documents, and the first sending of a partial set was made to that
country during September, 1907. The documents are deposited in the ministére
princier des affaires étrangéres de Monténégro, Cetinje.

A service of international exchanges having been established under the direc-
tion of the Biblioteca Nacional at Santiago, Chile, the Chilean exchange agency
has recently been transferred from the Universidad de Chile to that library.
The Institution desires to record its grateful acknowledgment of the services
rendered by the university during the past twelve years in the distribution of
packages in Chile.

At the request of the Museo Nacional at San Salvador, consignments for dis-
tribution in that country will henceforth be sent in care of the ministerio de
fomento at San Salvador.

The Institution has not yet been successful in prevailing upon an establish-
ment in Korea to act as the exchange medium between that country and the
United States. Transmissions to Korea, which were interrupted during the late
Russo-Japanese war, Have therefore not been resumed.

Through the wrecking of the steamship Newark Castle off the coast of south-
east Africa, the Institution suffered the loss of several packages of exchanges
destined for correspondents in Mauritius. So far as reported to this office, this
is the only instance during the past year in which packages were lost while in
transit. I am pleased to say that upon presenting the facts to the senders, dupli-
cate copies of all the lost publications were furnished for transmission to Mauri-
tius. ;

In continuation of the work inaugurated a few years ago, further steps have
been taken to reduce to a minimum the danger in case of fire in the rooms
occupied by the bureau. As a part of the plan of the Institution to divide the
basement of the building into several fireproof sections, metal doors were placed
in the exchange office and in the hall immediately adjoining. Several portable
fire extinguishers have also been procured and placed where they may be most
accessible in case of need.

INTERCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER
COUNTRIES.

The total number of packages handled by the international exchange service
during the past year was 203,098, an increase over the number for the preceding
year of 18,268. The weight of these packages was 435,285 pounds, a decrease
from 1907 of 34,251. This decrease in the weight is largely due to the reduction
in the size of the government documents received for transmission. It may be
added that this circumstance has resulted from the executive order issued
January 20, 1906. This order, in brief, provides for the appointment by the
heads of departments of advisory committees on printing and publication, whose
duty shall be to see that unnecessary matter is excluded from reports and publi-
eations; to do away with the publication of unnecessary tables, and to require

88292—sm 1908——5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

that statistical matter be published in condensed and intelligible form; to pre-
vent duplication of printing by different bureaus; to exclude unnecessary illus-
trations from department documents, ete.

The statement which follows shows in detail the number of packages ex-
changed between the United States and other countries:

Statement of packages received for transmission through the International
Exchanges during the year ending June 30, 1908.

Packages. Packages.
Country. Country.
For. From. For. From.

INIDYSSIMIG eset cece soe cise s oe ql eens Gibraltar cssasccsencecesce cies 13 it
IAN COTS soas.ccce see sien ese 118 Ady | WGOldi CoOastecs--cecceciecec= see Biiisteeceeme
ANP Ola seceesescaece see ee 3 AUN Greist ass Save eae) Plea Go lbeetensees
INSTARRTE) Ssogconcedenneo50500n Be |lcossossase Great Britain and Ireland...) 20, 562 8, 666
PATA Uacitsiwoce cian. cetie eos 28) | pecemesees Greeceiete-ccceohesccwarecens h lae3 5 (ee
PAT CONbIMN A oe coma sosecinsi 8, 044 AOS a nGreeniland na seecesaeetae Sel Ee seer
ATIStHia-MUNPAaTyicease sacs sas 7,490 224) Guadeloupeepcsecess-se-cece> 1) ES pee ee
IAZOLES Sacces scieuicesiceseisioas' ss 98 Vo conaso0bs Guatemalanes-ssoseese-ssce= ee 220 I Paeneas or
IBahamMas!s.-passccessicccecocs AGT evesteretoe Veith ee ost cease sewaiseceeeee nt) 0 eee eee
BarbadOsSescecceseccsisssiece OP bgncconeec | Hawaiian Islands ..........- OTE ie
TB AS UNOIGING aoosoooeadcusosne ee BS See Hon cums eeeeseere == seer AUT ES ed
BeiPayauos ceca cee selec sees acces 1B} WedSocosoac Honsikoneeeececessee sees eee TA Se tet aes 3
Beleiumeren eee eaisccre ea 4,184 PAHO Il WoT. .sogssoecos cossaeeose ANT A| sal sao
IBCLINUGAS eo ewieseeaeeeesccices Bhs) losogaaoaes INI ss. ctcocssae seseeesces 2, 495 121
Bismarck Archipelago...-.. ne Resear lelbaliyaaeesemencer seeeee nce ces 6,849 1, 287
LO har eS sepoaoae See SceesaSsee ‘ IPAS \ecascooons JAMAICH 5b ectanonesee sees 220M areeekteaee
IBOMCOs ..- coo ecc ciceimasmeiesne i \pelstssectstcie's JAPAN seo sssccsosaseies cee 3, 010 27
IBTAZ pepe er ese aes see eres 25 O00 6764 |'TAVaisasacccasme-scereeseciccce 243 169
IBTiLiISheAMMenicarencseeeeeeees 6, 604 704 || Kongo Free State. ........-.- oA eT ee
BritishPeurm pereeeeee-eeeeee Uhl Raceneeeta IOVS: wecsez vos cw sccacenesisiss FU Ieee
British East Africa..-----..- UD edosenasct WAP OSecsesoanc aie secs cisiseene 1 eon

BritiShiG ui snes seen eee Gil laaccoseues iberidms.s Janse cgaeeecee sects 6D Pes ereoce
British Honduras.........-- GO eacosasoce Lourenco Marquez ......---. 81 38
Bulvarigccetmccnisccs exe scee 166 140 Meee mip ure sae eeeriaaaseeterercs Sh Maasscee es
Cananyislandsee2oseseeeeeee AD: | eispeterere islet = Madagascar saac<cicieeaneiss 29) lS acho eee
CapeiColonyies sate sn---nclsecie 1, 469 On |PNEAC Cine eases eens slid esteee eee
Ceoylonnianns5-i-(5- sb eeceewse 199 a Mall tals coetnce cies er secriscsce ae SiS) Saee en ceee
Chiles ssscne ce eben = neem sie 2,128 BG} | WitewEnbANTOE OS Socacacascscceaus 1 Pee See
Chinas rec steeeewicecss ccc: 1, 302 210] eMaritiusi sacs seme =eeee sae 57 22
Colompineeeesee eee eee NpAGP | casesosse Mex COMsE a tos ce meee ee te seaee 1, 781 513
Costa mRicalssmesssticesccisa= see. 1, 494 29 || Montenegro .........-...-.-- CAN eeeAeooe
(CHOI GE) meSaqccoqgboosdeCEneebaode 1, 256 B34 [Il] WHOMH SOMITE sogcoonacennooosce We Se sesiceiee
(CUBTEKOE®) co gonccdeossacesseess Vy iaeicielete ete IMGROCCOMssss ee aeeeeee encase Bi Neascscoacs
(CAY OHO caossccccoocsescooseos Silas cekeeess IN alta es sia cieie c's wiere aisle raiatetersrere 194 2
MOMMA Ks cweistiseisss sees o[-/-1ac 1,810 OoTt sNethenlandssecermer sees cece 3, 360 1, 650
OMNI CHase maces ce eee icles ING ViSkivsuistewsimccaseee esses aU) eceaeenee
Dt hiG Milena. cece ores sicleer 26 Ss sen ee Newfoundland .......-----.- 131 128
MGMadOWencincteeac cect ns eces US eee ...- || New South Wales ..........- 2, 732 477
OVD Umer ieisios asics eccnioe 404 303) || New Zealandec-c- eee 1, 620 446
Falkland Islands.........-.. GW Beasaccaae NiCaTagU dae -screneeereeeeeas 207 1
MUTWS ANA Secale ieicice eae cie sss Pilea ea Norfolk Islands'2.s2-2---- <= TBE Caeeec come
TAN COrse see nidowe cee ceensase 12, 280 A649) || MNOLWEYe ae eeeeeeeeeee eee see 2, 299 287
French Cochin China.....-. SIG Pepae fee Orange River Colony.....-... TOG ale acctacateet
German East Africa. ........ Oh eee. Panama ice ereaeeomeecerer NGS} deca c=
GSLUI OI eerccatalelsiaielateiem clone el 23, 501 85285 iil) Paraguay ccs see e ee secta 143 100
7

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

Statement cf packages received for transmission through the International
Exchanges during the year ending June 30, 1908—Continued.

Packages. Packages.
Country, [aaa el Country.
For. From For. From.

Rersiasaseems sacesemecctases BG) oon ie | Sigmts=. ase seen saeco 208): eesecee ae
PETS aac cae ceals scree ee sce D432) ler oasiae | Sierra Weone az hone =2nccese 23h ae asa ee
Philippine Islands ........-. 168 Sn Society lslands=.--nssscece = LD) |e'seemeo sas
ROTO MI COnsE Ee eeaeecnee sees 9 LOR MSOUbh eA stral aes aaa acess 1,469 80
POTUOR Al 2 assenece seoeeeee 1, 512 G67 Gn ESPaING ce se ecees sakes eae se 2, 233 185
Portuguese West Africa ..... Po Nappoo ce aso | Straits Settlements .....-...- 189 i
Queensland! <2) sascc ce nine cee 1,374 ESOS SUG AME cae etary 27 2
RemHIONe seas saseeeee eee eee Ig aA Sumatra cos sein 52ers secs ee Oh cee ee
Telovoyo (Ns ae ee ee eee eee BD) |isieterse cease | SimeG en aas4 sagas sectors 7, 852 221
LOUD AIM secre ck cee eclomaes 386 (4 Switzerland. ot... s2a-o-55-26 3, 908 1, 667
RUSSIA eet Se cetaceans atoeie ek 4,811 WARD), ||| Mi Maksor ove Ss eee ceo nacae 1,159 2
SimOLOLSee sce seed cose ctw 5 A ee Se TRYamMsyaalls = senee cepeeese ses 1, 240 6
Stybelenatecsese.cecesecccen by eee sscs Trinidad! 25... s-sseessnossse ODS) erence =
Btemkaibtslses ocaeemaset ae cases Doi eeseeeeee IPUMNUS2 ocetsewie asics sisi sme pe tsi 33 2
Staliti Cia aes see asi be encee 4S eccn ses Munkeyis ses wsqceatosstaws sees 1 S78) eecackiea's
be Martini 222 55..2c20c¢s=. ses DON Eseeecatece Tums sland sieses cee cece UG Weapagagse
St. Pierre and Miquelon..... U5 \Seeccsacee Wnited!Statesssecsses--ecsee 44, 524 160, 850
St-ethomasrtonesicssacsnc ssc. TD: ARE Sains Wmusuayenststis- sosaec cee S739 | same seieaet
Ste vinCenthomssecescescsese2 P| Ropers aciee Venezuela: 2. -sstsesceeicecios a a 53 eee
Salivadorree se centscses a2 eer N6SM ee ec ee as WiC LODE pence ater ctecie arate 2,827 510
BBMOB. ss cess ascs es Seen = TBs isons aisisiei Western Australia........... 1, 270 449
Santo Domine Oe sasesces ace 19 (sys) \A7Ac aa Wall 0) 8 Oecd OeE reson We | cameanos =e
Sarawak.......-.------------ 3 |---------- Rotaliey. seesermss ses ~ 203, 098. "203, 098
Servis sacs nase osteeeecese 89 1

During the year there were sent abroad 1,909 boxes, of which 175 con-
tained complete sets of United States Government documents for authorized
depositories, and 1,734 were filled with departmental and other publications
for depositories of partial sets and for distrbution to miscellaneous corre-

spondents.
EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

The number of packages sent abroad through the international exchange
service by United States Government institutions during the year was 102,694,
an increase over those forwarded during the preceding twelve months of 2,580;
the number received in exchange was 16,853, an increase of 5,212. It is gratify-
ing to note that the increase in the number of packages received is greater than
the increase in the number sent out. This is due in large measure to the
special efforts made by the institution during the past year to obtain for the
Library of Congress and the several government departments and bureaus more
adequate returns for the publications sent to their foreign correspondents, to
which reference has previously been made. From the returns that have thus
far been received in response to the requests of the institution, I feel confident
that the exchanges from abroad will, during the coming year, be even greater
than during the past twelve months.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of the con-
gressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, setting apart a
certain number of documents for exchange with foreign countries, there are now
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

sent regularly to depositories abroad 54 full sets of United States official pub-
lications and 82 partial sets, China having been added during the year to the
list of countries receiving full sets and Montenegro and Liberia to the list of
those receiving partial sets,-the details concerning which have been given else-
where in this report. A list of the recipients of full and partial sets was given
in the report for last year and need not be repeated here.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The record of exchange correspondents at the close of the year contained
60,123 addresses, being an increase of 2,016 over the preceding year. A table
showing the number of correspondents in. each country was given in the last
report.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE TRANSMITTED.

Following is a list of bureaus or agencies abroad through which the distribu-
tion of exchanges is effected. Those in the larger and many in the smaller
countries forward to the Smithsonian Institution in return contributions for
distribution in the United States.

Algeria, via France.
Angola, via Portugal.
Argentina: Secci6n de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje de Publicaciones, Biblioteca

Nacional, Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores, via Portugal.

Barbados: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridgetown.

Belgium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Brussels.

Bermuda. (Sent by mail.)

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigracion, Estadistica y Propaganda Geo-
grafica, La Paz.

Brazil: Servico de Permutacoes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de

Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.?

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Bridgetown.
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Bulgaria: Institutions et Bibliothéque Scientifiques de S. A. R. le Prince de

Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canada. (Sent by mail.)

Canary Islands, via Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai. .

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,

Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.
Cuba. (Sent by mail.)

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.
Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Cairo.

France: Service Francais des Hchanges Internationaux, Paris.
Friendly Islands. (Sent by mail.)

«This method is employed for communicating with several of the British
colonies with which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Germany: Karl W. Hiersemann, K6nigsstrasse 3, Leipzig.

Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street,
Strand, London. J

Greece: Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens.

Greenland, via Denmark.

Guadeloupe, via France.

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, Guatemala.

Guinea, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest.

Teeland, via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale’ Vittorio
Emanuele, Rome.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo,

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea. (Shipments temporarily suspended.)

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Luxemburg, via Germany.

Madagascar, via France.

Madeira, via Portugal.

Mexico. (Sent by mail.)

Mozambique, via Portugal.

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

Newfoundland. (Sent by mail.)

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New Hebrides. (Sent by mail.)

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Public Library, Sydney.

New Zealand: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Portugal: Servico de Permutacées Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Board of Exchanges, Brisbane.

Roumania, via Germany.

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque In-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Saint Christopher. (Sent by mail.)

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores.

Santo Domingo. (Sent by mail.)

Servia, via Germany.

Siam: Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Depdsito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca General del Min-
isterio de Instruccién Piblica y Bellas Artes, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Switzerland: Service des. Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Bern.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.

Tunis, via France.

Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Zanzibar. (Sent by mail.)

RULES GOVERNING TRANSMISSION OF EXCHANGES.

The rules governing the transmission of exchanges have been slightly modi-
fied during the year, and under date of February 1, 1908, a new edition was
published, which is here reproduced for the information of those who may wish
to make use of the facilities of the service in the forwarding of exchanges:

In effecting the distribution of its first publications abroad, the Smithsonian
Institution established relations with certain foreign scientific societies and
libraries, by means of which it was enabled to assist materially institutions and
individuals of this country in the transmission of their publications abroad,
and also foreign societies and individuals in distributing their publications in
the United States.

In recent years the Smithsonian Institution has been recognized by the
United States Government as in charge of its official exchange bureau, through
which the publications authorized by Congress are exchanged for those of other
governments; and by a formal treaty it acts as intermediary between the
learned bodies and literary and scientific societies of the contracting states for
the reception and transmission of their publications.

Attention is called to the fact that this is not a domestic, but an international
exchange service, and is used to facilitate exchanges, not within the United
States, but between the United States and other countries only. As exchanges
from domestic sources for addresses in Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, Porto
Iiico, and other territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States do not
come within the designation ‘‘international,’ they are not accepted for
transmission,

Packages prepared in accordance with the rules enumerated below will be
received by the Smithsonian Institution from persons or institutions of learning
in the United States and forwarded to their destinations through its own agents,
or through the various exchange bureaus in other countries. The Smithsonian
agents and these bureaus will likewise receive from correspondents in their
countries such publications for addresses in the United States and territories
subject to its jurisdiction as may be delivered to them under rules similar to
those prescribed herein, and will forward them to Washington, after which the
Institution will undertake their distribution.

On the receipt of a consignment from a domestic source it is assigned a
“record number,” this number being placed on each package contained in the
consignment. <A record is then made of the entire list of packages under the
sender’s name, and the separate packages are entered under the name of the
person or office addressed. An account is thus established with every corre-
spondent of the Institution, which shows readily what packages each one has
sent or received through the exchange service. The books are then packed in
boxes with contributions from other senders for the same country, and are for-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

warded by fast freight to the bureau or agency abroad which has undertaken
to distribute exchanges in that country. To Great Britain and Germany, where
paid agencies of the Institution are maintained, shipments are made weekly;
to all other countries transmissions are made at intervals not exceeding one
month.

Transmissions from abroad for correspondents in the United States and ter-
ritory subject to its jurisdiction are distributed under frank by registered mail,
a record first having been made of the name of the sender and of the address of
each package.

The Smithsonian Institution assumes no responsibility in the transmission of
packages, but at all times uses its best endeavors to forward promptly to des-
tination exchanges entrusted to its care.

The rules governing the Smithsonian International Exchange Service are as
follows:

1. Packages intended for transmission through the Institution should be ad-
dressed ‘‘ Smithsonian Institution, International Exchange Service.”

2. The Institution and its agents will not knowingly receive for any address
purchased books; apparatus or instruments of any description, whether pur-
chased or presented; nor specimens of any nature except when special permis-
sion from the Institution has been obtained, and then only under the following
conditions : :

(a) Specimens in fluid will not be accepted for transmission.

(0) Botanical specimens will be transmitted at the rate of 8 cents per pound.

(c) All other specimens will be transmitted at the rate of 5 cents per pound.

3. In forwarding exchanges the sender should address a letter to the Institu-
tion, stating by what route the consignment is being shipped to Washington,
and the number of boxes or parcels of which it is composed.

4, Packages should be legibly addressed, using the language of the country
for which they are intended when practicable, and avoiding all abbreviations.
When packages are intended for societies and other establishments, names of
individuals should be omitted from labels in order to avoid any possible dispute
as to ownership.

5. Packages should be securely wrapped in stout paper and, when necessary,
tied with strong twine.

6. No package to a single address should exceed one-half of 1 cubic foot.

7. Letters or other written matter are not permitted in exchange packages.

8. Exchanges must be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents
with all charges paid.

9. If donors desire acknowledgements, each package should contain a blank
receipt to be signed and returned by the establishment or individual addressed ;
and if publications are desired in exchange, the fact should be stated on the
ecard or package.

In conclusion, mention should be made of the valuable services which are
rendered the Institution by those correspondents abroad who give their personal
attention and doubtless often expend private means in furthering the interests
of the international exchange service. The thanks of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion are also due Mr. Charles A. King, deputy collector of customs at the port
of New York, for his constant assistance in clearing exchange consignments
from abroad.

Respectfully submitted.

Cyrus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in charge of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX IV.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June 80, 1908:

ROADS AND WALKS.

The most significant advance made in the park during the year has been the
decided improvement in the means of access which was effected by means of a
special appropriation of $15,000 made by Congress for the reconstruction and
repairing of walks and roadways.

From this appropriation there were put in excellent condition the roadways
from the concrete bridge near the Quarry Road entrance and from the same
point to the ford near the Klingle road. A concrete walk was constructed from
the bridge to near the lion house, and a new permanent footway was begun to
replace the temporary wooden walk by which most visitors entering from the
Adams Mill road reach the animal houses. A steam roller was found to be
necessary for this work and also for general use in the park. An attempt was
made to hire one, but finding this impracticable, one was purchased, weighing
between 7 and § tons, at a cost of $2,280, and has proved an excellent investment.

When the roadbed was broken up it was found throughout a large part of
the extent to be in much worse condition than expected. The original macadam
pavement was in some places almost wholly gone, while in the creek valley
the roadbed had settled into the soft ground. Practically the entire body of
macadam had to be supplied. Potomac gneiss was used for the base and in
part for the middle layer. Limestone was used for the top layer and for a
considerable portion of the middle layer. The work was delayed very much
because of a difficulty in securing deliveries of stone. The large amount of
new construction and repair work that was going on upon the city streets
made such a demand for teams that contractors who supplied the stone for
the work in the park were unable to obtain them to do the hauling. The ex-
pense of putting these roads in proper order was therefore greater than had
been anticipated. The total sum expended, including the laying of gutters,
was $10,300.

The macadam walk extending from the Quarry-road entrance to the con-
course, which was in extremely bad condition, was replaced by a concrete walk.
The length of this walk was 1,100 feet, with a width of 10 feet throughout
most of the distance and of 12 feet from the entrance to the concrete bridge.
The cost of this walk was $1.324 per square yard, and the total was $1,936.46.

The walk from the Adams Mill road entrance to the bowlder footbridge
to take the place of the wooden walk is 560 feet in length, with an average
width of 9 feet. From the bowlder footbridge to the upper end of the walk
the rise is 102 feet. The difficulties of making this walk were considerable,
for in some parts of its course it was necessary to cut into the face of a steep
hillside. Great pains were taken to shape the bared surfaces and to plant them
with indigenous ferns and other plants, so as to present a natural appearance,

62
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

It is believed that this work was unusually successful. This walk was not
entirely completed at the close of the year, but will soon be finished. The
total cost will be about $2,000, of which $1,350 was expended during the year.

A concrete walk along the front and west side of the small mammal house,
for which a contract was made under the previous year’s appropriation, was
completed soon after the beginning of the year. This walk was extended to the
temporary bird house.

BUILDINGS AND INCLOSURES.

The outdoor cages on the west side of the small mammal house were com-
pleted and are now in use. ‘The floors of these cages have a base of stone, set
after the manner of Telford pavement, with from 2 to 3 inches of earth over it.
The fronts and top are constructed of three-eighths-inch round steel, and the
partitions are of wire netting with three-quarter-inch square mesh. This net-
ting is double, with a space of 4 inches between the two, so that animals in
adjoining cages can not injure one another.

The two additional bear yards built from the previous year’s appropriation
were completed early in this year, and occupied. A concrete walk 12 feet wide
was constructed in front of these and of the two yards previously built. Two
more yards, work on which was begun in April, have been constructed mainly
from this year’s appropriation. It is expected that the four yards required to
complete the entire series of ten will be completed during the year 1908-9.

Work was begun on inclosures for pheasants and other game birds, and this
will be completed early in the coming year.

A considerable amount of repair work has been necessary on buildings and
inclosures during the current year. The west wall of the antelope house and
a portion of the north end had to be rebuilt. Owing to lack of sufficient
funds for better construction, this building was originally constructed in the
cheapest materials, and the west wall was so much decayed that it was weak
and unsafe. Several other parts of the building had been repaired in previ-
ous years. The roof of the temporary portion of the lion house was leaking
badly and had to be repaired and the skylights thoroughly overhauled and re-
paired. The roof of the temporary bird house was also repaired. The fence
of the inclosures about the llama house was entirely rebuilt. The buffalo
fence also required repair and a considerable amount of new fencing, and con-
siderable repair work had to be done on various other wire fences.

The building occupied as an aquarium is rapidly reaching a state when it
must either be entirely rebuilt or wholly demolished. It will be remembered
that it was originally a hay shed built in the most temporary manner out of
Virginia pine lumber, and that constant repairs have been required to keep it
in a condition for occupancy. The foundations on which the tanks rest are
sinking and several of the larger plate-glass’ fronts have been cracked so that
they can not be used.

The gates at Adams Mill road and Quarry road entrances which had been
taken down in order to make way for changes in the street approaches, were
replaced and arrangements made to close the park at 9 p. m.

A considerable amount of planting was done during the year, the area about
the small mammal house and extending toward the lion house was brought to
the final grade, covered with soil, and planted. The banks near the flying cage
were also planted, and shade trees and shrubs were set.in various other places.
Nut-bearing trees and bushes were also planted to furnish food for squirrels.

Plans for a hospital and laboratory building were prepared during the year,
but construction of the building was deferred, as all availabe funds were heeded
for other purposes.
64 ANNUAL REPORT-SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

VISIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL CONGRESS,

A very noteworthy event of the year was the visit made to the park by
members of the International Zoological Congress, which occurred on September
4, 1907, after the general meeting of the congress held at Boston on August 15
to 24.

Arrangements were made by a local committee for their entertainment while
in this city, so that the park was at no expense. About 80 of the foreign visitors
came to the park and spent nearly the whole day inspecting the collection. A
luncheon was served them on the stretch of lawn extending along the bank of
the creek just above the lower bridge. They appeared to be much impressed
by the installation and appearance of the animals. Among the visitors were
three directors of foreign zoological gardens, viz, Messrs. J. Biittikofer, of
Rotterdam; W. H. D. Le Souef, of Melbourne, and R. F. Scharff, of Dublin.
M. G. Loisel, commissioned by the French Government to inspect foreign
zoological establishments, was also present.

ACCESSIONS AND LOSSES,

Gifts included a great anteater and two curassows, from Hon, H. G. Squiers,
American minister to Panama.

A fine mule deer buck, from James A. Carroll, superintendent, Indian School
at Mescalero, N. Mex.

A collection of 25 animals was received as an exchange from the Municipal
Zoological Garden at Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic. This included a pair
of alpacas, one llama, a pair of grisons, a pair of viscachas, a pair of Pata-
gonian cavies, a pair of common rheas, a Patagonian rhea, a Maguari stork, and
other mammals and birds.

Purchases.—The purchases included a male tiger from the Malay Peninsula,
as a mate for the female previously obtained from the same region, three
Alaskan brown bears, an orang, a pair of wanderoo monkeys, a pair of Kongo
harnessed antelopes, a gnu, a male nilgai as a mate for the female already in
the collection, a pair of guanacos, five American otters, a secretary vulture,
ete.

Births.—The births numbered 91 and included a Brazilian tapir, a yak, a
Barbary sheep, a Kongo harnessed antelope, deer of several species, a viscacha,
kangaroos, wolves, etc. Eleven wild turkeys were hatched, and various herons
and other birds nested in the flying cage.

Deaths.—The deaths included the lion Lobengula, presented by Mr. H. C.
Moore in 1894, which died from chronic interstitial pneumonia; a young
Steller’s sea lion and a young Alaskan brown bear, lost from pneumonia; a
black leopard from cirrhosis of the liver; and a great anteater from hemorrhagic
nephritis. An infection with a bacillus resembling that of hog cholera took
off 12 pigeons of various species. An outbreak of serious gastro-enteritis among
the cats, supposed to have been due to the meat used, resulted in 2 deaths; 5
animals were affected.

One hundred and seventeen autopsies were made by the pathologists of the
Bureau of Animal Industry and gave the following results:

Gastritis and enteritis, 26; hemorrhagic proctitis, 1; pseudo-membranous
colitis, 1; impaction of rectum, 1; impaction of rumen, 1; peritonitis with
intestinal obstruction, 1; peritonitis with hernia of large intestine, 1; ascaris
and trematode infestation, 1; tuberculosis, 18; pneumonia, 13; congestion of
lungs, 4; porocephalus infestation of lungs, 1; bacillus enteritidis, 12; proteus
vulgaris, 2; nephritis, 8; cirrhosis of liver, 1; fatty degeneration of liver, 1;
pericarditis, 2; dilation of heart, 1; hyaline degeneration of heart muscle, 1;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

internal hemorrhage from rupture of hematoma on gizzard, 1; hemistomiosis,
1; pyemia, 1; rabies, 2; carcinoma of uterus, 1; carcinoma of liver, 1; psoric
marasmus, 1; ruptured oviduct, 1; starvation (young coyotes), 4; congestion
of brain (from accident), 1; gunshot wound (puma killed because of curvature
of spine), 1; cause of death not found, 38; total, 117.

VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year was 652,500, a daily aver-
age of about 1,783. The largest number in any month was 109,240, in April,
1908—a daily average of 3,524.

During the year there visited the park 170 schools, Sunday schools, classes,
ete., with 4,688 pupils, a monthly average of 386 pupils. While most of them
were from the city and immediate vicinity, 29 of the schools were from neigh-
boring States; and classes came from Fairhaven, Fitchburg, Lexington,
Waltham, and Boston, Mass.

NEEDS OF THE PARK,

General aviary.—The temporary bird house is crowded during the winter far
beyond its proper capacity, and it is impossible to care for the birds satisfac-
torily. When it was built, and also at the time that additions were made, the .
funds available for the purpose were so small that it was necessary to build in
the cheapest manner possible, so that the house has already required consider-
able repair, and will very soon have to be largely rebuilt. The park has a good
collection of birds, including a number of rare, interesting, and valuable speci-
mens, sufficient to fill at once a large aviary and make one of the most im-
portant and attractive features of the park.

Antelope house.—The temporary building used for this purpose is quite inad-
equate, and, while it has served the purpose fairly well for the temporary hous-
ing of a few of these animals, it is far from satisfactory for long-continued use.

Inclosures.—Inclosures, with pools, for sea lions and seals. The park now
has on exhibition both the common California sea lion and the great northern
or Steller’s sea lion, also seals, but these animals now have only very small
pools, which were intended for other animals, and which are not large enough
to allow the activity which they need in order to keep in health and vigor.

Office building near the center of the activities of the park.

Public comfort places.—The present structures are unsightly in appearance,
inadequate, and becoming seriously in need of repair.

Restaurant.—There is now in use as a restaurant merely an inclosed plat-
form with roof and a small inclosed shed attached for cooking purposes, and
no place where visitors can take lunch with comfort, especially in cold weather.

Shelters for visitors are needed in various parts of the park.

The little hill, occupied by the condor cage and various small shelters, is
very unsatisfactory in appearance and arrangement, and should be rearranged
or cleared for something more suitable for so prominent a location.

The roads, which it was not possible to reconstruct from the special appro-
priation, are coming to be in very bad condition, and are seriously in need of
thorough repair. This should include paving the ford across the creek in the
line of the driveway which leads out to Cathedral avenue, and should also include
the extension of the guard wall at the side of the Adams Mill road along the
entire extent of the steep bank. Much of the macadam walk is in very unsatis-
factory condition and needs thorough repair, and a concrete walk should be
built about the flying cage.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

Aeccessions during the year:
JET ES (eat ECO Lt Se a pe
RVCCOIVEO LIN MON CHANG Ose siwe fc ee Be ee ee ee
IBUTehaSed: ieee aL oe ree a ee ee
IDEPOSite dhe t= Nene eee ee eee
Born and hatched in’ National Zoological Parlkk22==2222s)s)s=———
Capwred sin weNa tional’ Aoological Pay: xis eee ee ee

Presented.

White-throated capuchin, Lieut. H. F. D. Long, U. S. Marine Corps_______
Browhiecapuchin Hs. Melean===232= = ee
Ocelot, donor unknown, Trinidad, West Indies
IR@El Woe, IDL IES Wirowe, WWwRIoeA VOM, ID, Cis. a ae a
IR@ol ion, J8l5 VAG JOineay Os SO, \WWWESonbore on, ID) On a ee
(Cumin WIRE, 1B IL, siRelbiyZ, \WelSnubavento, IDS O22.
Americanwbadser, thereresidenta22= 2 se ee ee eee
Miulendeer James A. Carroll; Mescaleros iN Mex a aes ee eee
Angora goat, No. 8 Fire Engine Company, Washington, D. C
Comnrony Oat Co AG AMISS Wes iiy Sst rys 10) ops © eee
Grayesquirrel,;the: President= 2225 = as eee ee eee
Great ant-eater, Hon. H. G. Squires, minister to Panama_______________
@possumstheseresident = sess =a Ses eee ee eee aioe en ee
Opossum, Lee H. Smith, Washington. Up: @ tale see eee eee
OPossumysVir sh Wie LL OclswOOGs AW asi SCO Ti ele) SC eee ee
Double yellow-headed Amazon, Miss N. Morrison, Washington, D. C_____
Porto Rican parrot, August Buseck, United States Department of Agricul-

Parrakeet, August Busck, United States Department of Agriculture
RATE A KEE NEES Ate cA CLEC) VV Ge Sn Tn 150 15912) ey Oo a
IPRA do (Oh OME E olin, Wy yersiainoveqnorn, ID hy Owes
Red-tailed hawk, donor unknown, Washington, D. C
Great horned owl, Mr. Lee, Washington, D. C
Reyes ol Ohl, OMNES IOVS MVE Milopetoyol, IO), (Ces
keel Onl dig 19k \yvararsh alli, \Wwesiniayeqwoya, 1D, OL
3arn owl, janitor of Alabama Apartment House, Washington, D. C
Screechcow,. Vins. Moiese Wasim Som) Io) yO ete eee eeeeee
SeRazen Oy, Ls, ohio Kon, Weautaveqno 1D) Cho =
Curassow, Hon. H. G. Squires, minister to Panama
(Gweva, elo, Ish Ey Sonus iombonisinese (Wo) Jape
White-winged dove, Lieut. Paul D. Bunker, U. S. Army, Key West Bar-
vig 2 KG) ESP EP Nes van ae Sep eR RAN Beh Ts Nya ET ee pe he
TatitiaKexSVonyep I Dyes Ta dary yophoved(eiim Mopdionn aie et
Ringdove, Miss E. C. Day, Washington, D. C
SHE AURA LOGE Sy overt MWe ovuayeayoy ID), (Olas ee
AVA ESO MELON MLSS AVVCLIL., VV S INIT CGO ell) si (meee eee ee
Wihtstlinesswan, rami Io Tals svy/als tiny Ors oll) si © eae mec
Black-crowned night heron, J. N. Ruffin, New York City--______________
LIER Hirs Via bs 1s ebamichOleenalec obey (Ole ee a
NMI: MGA ds WG Le Kolbrora Yes aubeveqroyn, ID (Oe

Alligator, Georgetown Hospital, Washington, D. C

Bee PRP OQOHRP HHP NPP Pee

rote

to

HPHEHEH Hee

hoe Ht

ft 1 cd ft fet fet pe
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

lor)
=]

Banded rattlesnake, Smyth Brothers, Renovo, Pa

Mohayersnakerd. Belcones simperials © alle se ee 2
Hoo-nosed) Snakewh Os eAmMpler wEOMmer We Vaasa == OU Noe ed aft
‘Chicken snake, Armadillo Curio Company, Boerne, Tex_________________ 2
Garter snake, Armadillo Curio Company, Boerne, Tex__-_______________ 4
Garter snake, Armadillo Curio Company, Boerne, Tex__________________ il
Green snake, Armadillo Curio Company, Boerne, Tex________-_____-____ al
Mouse snake, Armadillo Curio Company, Boerne, Tex__-________________ 1
Summary:
ATHIMAlSROnMMAT Cer lyeelenalO Oem ees Le oe ee ee ee feal93;
PANIC CESST OM Ses Ch Udita Oe Ne sy Cen eee ee a ae ee eee D591
DKON oka Ss RE Se oper ER aE eee we Pa TONS NL Poe eT 1, 784
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals) ________ 382
Onward une rss Ose LO) Sree eee ee ae ee ed 2 1, 402
Species. | Individuals.
VESTN BIS oes eoe eS neces ae is oc cs Sana ae ae ase Gils otsias eesee eee Sains 146 565
EBT Sa sre eats ate aw ara Se ele a oe Cae rte Saar iats 5s cron Bie rem imncvarciaetaeae 168 713
MRE ptiles: eiseeisasisc.s ae a )sida/a ce sijaciclsa sa Sasaeleeelsioles ste cisisels sie cers se wie sieletidie See cee es 36 124
MiG taille eee reer ss Sayer one Sam ee ciate ara yee IS A AB fe 350 1, 402

Respectfully submitted.
FRANK BAKkeEr, Superintendent.
Dr. CHARLES D, WALCcoTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX V.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Str: During the past fiscal year there have been no alterations of the obser-
vatory buildings beyond slight necessary repairs. Some apparatus for research
has been purchased, the usual scientific periodicals have been continued, and a
few books of reference have been added to the library.

The personnel has remained practically unchanged. Miss M. L. Scott served
as additional computer from July 5 to August 10, 1907. Mr. J. C. Dwyer, who
had served faithfully and with fast growing general usefulness as messenger
for several years, died on January 25, 1908. Mr. Meyer Segal was employed as
messenger, beginning February 19, 1908, and Mr. L. B. Aldrich as bolometric
assistant from May 11, 1908, to the end of the fiscal year.

The work of the observatory may be considered under the following heads:
1. Publications; 2. Washington observations; 38. Solar eclipse expedition; 4.
Mount Wilson observations.

1. PUBLICATIONS.

As stated in last year’s report, the preparation of Volume II of the annals
had been nearly finished before the beginning of the fiscal year. But the com-
pletion of the computations, and the revising and rechecking of results contin-
ued to occupy the staff until the latter part of Ocober. The revision of proofs
continued intermittently until March, and the edition of 1,500 copies was re-
ceived in April. About 1,800 copies were at once distributed to libraries,
observatories, scientific periodicals, and men of science throughout the world.
Commendatory notices by letter and in journals, and requests for copies of the
work have been numerous.

2. WASHINGTON OBSERVATIONS.

The observation of the relative brightness of different parts of the sun’s disc
has gone forward as there was opportunity. Improved methods of observing
and reducing these observations have been adopted.

Preparations for observing the absorption of water vapor in long columns of
air, for the region of the spectrum where rays are chiefly emitted by the earth,
have been carried to such a state that preliminary measurements have been
made. Many difficulties attend this research, for the rays observed are wholly
invisible to the eye, and are very feeble, even in the emission of the hottest
bodies. In sun’s rays they are almost wholly absent, because of the absorbing
action of the water vapor encountered by the sun’s rays in our atmosphere.
Few substances are transparent to them, and even rock salt fails in transpar-
ency, for some rays are of very long wave-length, which are of considerable
importance in the spectrum of the earth. Stray radiation from the walls of
the room must be taken into account, and the straying of rays of less wave-
length from regions of the spectrum where the emission of hot sources is
plentiful is a troublesome difficulty. The investigation is being carried on with
a column of moist air about 400 feet in length. The work is under Mr. Fowle’s
direction.

68
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

3. SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITION—A BOLOMETRIC STUDY OF THE SOLAR CORONA.

The Smithsonian Institution was represented among observers of the eclipse
of January 3, 1908, by a small expedition including the writer and Mr. A. F.
Moore, of Los Angeles. Our charges were defrayed by the Institution, but we
went by invitation and with the cooperation of Director Campbell, of the Lick
Observatory, and shared in the benefits of the careful provision which he made
for the general welfare and success. The observations were made at Flint
Island in the South Pacific Ocean. My absence from Washington extended from
November 5, 1907, to February 2, 1908.

We proposed to measure, with that extremely sensitive electrical thermometer
called the ‘“ bolometer,” the intensity of the radiation of the solar corona, and to
determine the quality of coronal light as compared with sunlight.

In the year 1900 the first bolometric observations of the corona were made
by Smithsonian observers. From these observations it was inferred that, as
regards quality, the radiation of the inner corona was far richer than that
reflected from the moon in yisible light. In view of this consideration and
others, the inferences drawn by the writer from the bolometric study of the
corona made in 1900 were unfavorable to the view that the radiation of the
inner corona is produced mainly by the incandescence of matter heated to high
temperatures by reason of its proximity to the sun. The bolometric observa-
tions at Flint Island were designed to test the inferences above referred to and
to measure more definitely the quantity and quality of the coronal radiation.

Apparatus.—A concave mirror of 50 centimeters diameter and only 100 centi-
meters focus, mounted equatorially and driven by a clock, served to produce a
very intense image of the corona. A small guiding telescope was attached to the
mirror frame so that the observer might point toward any desired object. In
the focus of the mirror was placed the bolometer. <A glass plate 3 millimeters
thick was fixed close to the bolometer, between it and the mirror, so that the
radiation examined was thereby limited to wave-lengths less than about 3u.
About 10 centimeters in front of the bolometer was a blackened metal shutter,
which cut off the beam except when designedly opened. The opening of this
shutter, therefore, exposed the central part of the bolometer to such rays as
are transmissible by glass. Between the shutter and the glass plate, and close
to the latter, was a special screen composed of a thin stratum of asphaltum
varnish laid on one side of a plane parallel glass plate 3 millimeters thick.
This screen was held out of the beam by a spring, except when designedly inter-
posed. Its property, when used, was to cut off nearly all the visible part of
the radiation, while transmitting nearly all of the infra-red rays transmissible
by glass. By interposing this absorbing screen the proportion of the observed
radiation which lay in the infra-red spectrum could be roughly determined.

The equatorial was set up at Flint Island on the beach at about 12 meters
distance from the galvanometer used for observing the indications of the bolom-
eter. Two galvanometers were provided, exactly alike in resistance and general
construction, and arranged so that if at the last moment any accident should
happen to one the observer might pass at once to the other.? <A thatched hut,
shaded by palm trees, sheltered the galvanometers and their appliances, and
was found to give most satisfactory protection both from heat and rain. During
the eclipse a rise of temperature of one bolometer strip of about 0°.000,01 C.
would have produced 1 millimeter deflection of the galvanometer. It is possible
to detect temperature changes of 0°.000,000,01 C. with the bolometer, under
special conditions, but the sensitiveness employed was regarded as good for a
temporary installation.

@This prudent measure was suggested by Mrs. Abbot.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

The observations.—The approach of totality was uncommonly exciting on this
occasion. Early in the morning the sky was overcast with thin high clouds, but
these gradually grew thinner, so that after 9 a. m. the prospects indicated a
streaky sky, containing something almost too thick for haze, but almost too
thin for cirrus clouds. These prospects were fulfilled exactly during totality,
but in the quarter of an hour next preceding a thick cloud came up, rain fell
fast from 11 h. 8 m. to 11 h. 14 m., and the sky became clear of the low cloud
only fifteen seconds before totality at the Smithsonian station. The rapid
change from fair prospects to completely discouraging ones, and the return to
good conditions just at the critical time, will long be remembered. Our entire
immunity from rain during totality was due to the fact that our station was
about 1,000 feet north of the one occupied by the Lick Observatory.

The intensity and quality of sunlight was determined within twenty-five min-
utes of totality, both before and after, and during totality measurements were
made at five different regions of the corona and on the dark moon. A general
summary of the results of these and other observations follows:

Intensity of rays (observed through glass).
Intensity for unit

Source. angular area.
Sunpnearezenith, HMling. island 2222233 esse 10, 000, 000
Siky AO” sero Sony Woihine WMG ee 140
Sinyatalmeetromesun Hint asian dias ss eee 31
Skysaverace, Hint island 2-22... 22) ee eee 62
Skyaaveraze, MountsWilson) Cail’ 222 te ee 15
Moonvatmicht Klint Usland===52=2. 3 a AG?
MOOnMGUInINe eclipse; wh lint sland]

Coronal oeCACL US cir OTy ST ee ee ee ee 13
Corona Tadius fromsune. ==. 2552s eee eee 4
Coronas radius fromysun=—2 ==) =e eee 0

Proportion of rays which asphaltum transmits.

Determination.
Mean
Source. (weighted).
Mp i

Shohol SS sesehhossuiopen Wihen)ey paG Gn neocennonAG pa cocosnoaonooSODUSnDOCOadCGs. 0. 333 0.331 0. 332
(Coombe a waxshiGaixorea Mb OG 4 oe ocdcoadacsoacocaasnocgnanecoa oon oBNe 343 484 . 864
Corona snadiusiiromMlimp oeeceeee ae eeee che eec ee ee nee eee . 387 a, 323 , 862
Mooniat might: 22.5) sc6< ccos'e.c bis anin/s seis cis tne eleieiniapsisiste wa sievow isis cles oes sien [eee eee ne sel ecsaree oes .5
Sky izenithyG ays. cnwcccccccetscowe cence niememe tere ccm cete spice cemenise cme | sep aicie sisies (ee cieewsic «23

«This observation is entitled to only half the weight of the others.

Discussion of the results.

When we recall the extreme brightness of the sky within a single degree of
the sun, as compared with that 20° away, and consider also the figures just
given, it seems very unlikely that the corona will ever be observed without an
eclipse.

The nature of the radiation of the inner corona has been supposed by some
to be principally reflected solar radiation, by others to be principally due to
the incandescence of particles heated by reason of their proximity to the sun,
by others to be principally luminescence perhaps similar to the aurora, and by
some as a combination of all of these kinds of radiation.

The spectrum of the corona is mainly continuous, but has some inconspicuous
bright lines, and in its outer part has dark solar lines. Undoubtedly there is
sunlight reflected by the matter of the corona, and no less surely the corona
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. (ol

must be hot. As for the idea of Juminescence by electrical discharge, though
the streamers of the corona are a reminder of the aurora, one hesitates to ree-
ommend an explanation involving a thing so little understood, so that we will
here speak only of the incandescence and reflection of the corona as sources of
its brightness. The bolometric results indicate that the coronal radiation dif-
fers but little in quality from that of the sun, and is, in fact, far richer than the
reflected rays of the moon in visible light, although less rich than skylight.

These results indicate that if produced by virtue of high temperature, the
eoronal radiation must have come from a source almost as hot as the sun, which
is upward of 6,000° absolute. Such temperatures as this are too high for the
existence of any known solids or liquids, unless under high pressures not found
in the corona, so that if the light is due to the high temperature of the corona
itself, the corona must apparently be gaseous. But if it is gaseous, its spec-
trum should consist chiefly of bright lines, and this is not the fact. Hence it
would seem that the coronal radiation, if it is produced by temperature, has its
source in the sun itself, and is merely reflected by the matter of the corona,
like the light of our atmosphere. But if the coronal rays are reflected, they
would be bluer than sunlight, if the material there is gaseous, and as they are
not, the coronal material may be supposed to be composed of solid or liquid
particles to a considerable extent. But it is objected that only the outer corona
shows the characteristic dark lines of the solar spectrum, and that these are
absent in the region of the corona now being considered. May it not be that
the temperature of the inner corona is so high that gases are present there
along with the solid and liquid particles, so that the bright-line spectrum of
these gases may be present and be superposed upon the reflected solar spec-
trum? In this case the bright rays of incandescence would fall exactly upon
the dark lines of the solar spectrum and tend to obliterate them. At points in
the corona more remote from the sun the gases would cool to liquid drops, or
solid particles, or become excessively rare, so that the bright-line spectrum of
incandescent gas would fade away, leaving tne dark lines of the reflected solar
spectrum predominant.

This line of explanation seems to me to accord with the facts observed, but
I give it merely as a suggestion.

4, MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATIONS.

Great advantage having been found in 1905 and 1906 in making “ solar-con-
stant’? investigations on Mount Wilson as well as in Washington, and strong
evidence having been secured there of the considerable variability of the sun,
it was concluded to continue in 1908 the expedition to Mount Wilson in order
to secure as many observations of the “ solar constant”’ as possible for the study
of solar changes. As in former years, other kinds of measurements were con-
templated, notably on the brightness of the sky and on the reflection of the
clouds. The expedition, in charge of the writer, and including also Mr. L. B.
Aldrich, of Madison, Wis., reached Mount Wilson on May 11, 1908. “ Solar-
constant ” observations were begun on May 19 and have been made ever since
daily when the sky permitted. Unfortunately the sky has been less clear on
Mount Wilson than in other years, but nevertheless a great number of observa-
tions have been made.

The apparatus employed for observing the eclipse on Flint Island has been
erected on Mount Wilson on the tower built for the Smithsonian expedition in
1906, and with this apparatus some of the observations of the brightness of the
sky have already been made. It is expected to continue these measurements
and others on the reflecting power of the clouds during the stay of the expe-
dition.

88292—sm 1908——6
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908,

A new and greatly improved copy of the standard water-flow pyrheliometer
was constructed in Washington by the observatory instrument maker, Mr. A.
Kramer, and is being installed on Mount Wilson.

The frequent observation of the “solar constant” during a period of years at
least equal to the sun-spot cycle was regarded by the late director, Mr. Langley,
as a research of great importance. Having proved by the expeditions of 1905
and 1906 that the variation of solar radiation is highly probable, and also that
numerous days suitable for ‘‘ solar-constant”’ observations were found in the
months from May to November on Mount Wilson, it is now proposed to erect
on a small, well-isolated plat of ground leased from the Carnegie Institution a
fireproof observing shelter to be occupied by Smithsonian observers each
year during the months mentioned. This improvement of equipment there is
made necessary by the unsightly appearance and rapid deterioration of the
wooden sheds now occupied by the Smithsonian expedition and also by
the rapid development of electrical and other installation by the Carnegie solar
observatory too near the present location for the long continuance of good work.

It is strongly hoped that the way may become clear for the continuance of
“ solar-constant ’”’ observations in the months from November to May either by
the Smithsonian or other observers at a station equally as favorable for those
months as Mount Wilson in summer.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. ABBot, Director.

Mr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX VI.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Siz: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of the
library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908:

The accession book of the Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress, shows
that there have been recorded 1,744 volumes, 19,079 parts of volumes, 3,147
pamphlets, and 807 charts, making a total of 24,777 publications. The acces-
sion numbers run from 482,317 to 488,288. Of these publications a few needed
for the scientific work of the Institution have been held, while the larger number
has been sent to the Library of Congress.

In transmitting these publications to the Library of Congress 164 boxes have
been used, and it is estimated that they contained the equivalent of 6,560 vol-
umes. The actual number of publications sent, which includes parts of period-
icals, pamphlets, and volumes, was 25,524. These two counts do not include
public documents presented to the Smithsonian Institution, sent direct to the
Library of Congress as soon as received, without stamping or recording, or
public documents and other gifts to the Library of Congress received through
the international exchange service, or publications requested to complete sets
in the Smithsonian deposit at the Library of Congress, which have been trans-
mitted separately.

The records of the libraries of the office, Astrophysical Observatory, and the
National Zoological Park show that there have been received 889 volumes and
pamphlets, 2,428 parts of volumes and charts. making a total of 3,317 and a
grand total, including the publications for the Smithsonian deposit, of 28,094.

.The parts of serial publications that were entered on the card catalogue
numbered 32,454, and 1,310 slips for completing volumes were made, together
with 480 cards for new periodicals and annuals which were added to the per-
manent record from the periodical recording desk.

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received from univer-
sities at the following places:

Basel Heidelberg Rostock
Berlin Helsingfors Strassburg
Bern Jena Toulouse
Bonn Konigsberg Utrecht
Dorpat Leipzig Zurich
Erlangen Louvain

Giessen Philadelphia

The technical high schools at Berlin, Darmstadt, Dresden, and Karlsruhe
have also sent publications of the same character.

In continuing the plan to effect new exchanges and to secure missing parts
to complete sets, 2,161 letters were written, resulting in about 500 new periodicals
being added to the lists and the receipt of about 1,559 parts lacking in the sets
were secured, which partially filled up or entirely completed the various series
of publications in the Smithsonian deposit. In writing for the missing parts
of publications needed to complete these sets, the library has had assistance

73
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

from the international exchange service of the Institution. The replies to
these requests are now coming in, but it is too early to state definitely the
measure of success attained as a result of these efforts. In addition the Insti-
tution has, through the medium of the international exchange service, sent
out requests for government documents and serial publications needed to com-
plete the sets in the Library of Congress, and with this end in view letters have
been written to Bavaria, the Province of Buenos Aires, Costa Rica, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Newfoundland, Nicaragua, Japan, Russia, and Salvador.

In the reading room there were issued 20 bound volumes of periodicals and
3,285 parts of scientific periodicals and popular magazines, making a total of
3,305. The various bureaus of the Government have continued to use these
publications and those in the sectional libraries of the Institution. In the main
however, the consultations have been by members of the staff.

The mail receipts numbered 33,106 packages. The publications contained
therein were stamped and distributed for entry from the mail desk. About
4,372 acknowledgments were made on the regular form, which is in addition
to those for publications received in response to the requests of the Institution
for exchange.

The following changes were made in the routine of the library, commencing
with the first of the calendar year, in accordance with the secretary’s instruc-
tions:

The filing of letters was changed from the alphabetical arrangement to the
filing by number with a card-catalogue index. The recording of the purchase
of books on sheets was discontinued and the card record only was retained.
The record of exchange pubiications with booksellers heretofore kept in the
office of the correspondence and documents of the museum was transferred to
the Smithsonian library, and a book containing the debit and credit account
has been commenced.

The employees’ library.—The books added to the library were 398, and of
these 13 were purchased and 385 were presented by Miss Lucy H. Baird, of
Philadelphia, Pa. In this collection were a large number of the older standard
novels, together with bound volumes of periodicals, such as the Century,
Harper’s, Atlantic Monthly, etc., some of the sets being quite complete. The
number of books borrowed was 1,818, and the sending of a selected number of
books from this library to the National Zoological Park and the Bureau of
American Ethnology each month has been continued. ‘This library has been
fortunate for a number of years in having the volunteer services of Miss
Margaret C. Dyer, which were rendered in an intelligent and faithful manner,
but upon her resignation, which took effect on June 1, the care of the books
was transferred to Miss Elsie V. H. Baldwin, who volunteered her services.

The art room.—The work of cataloguing the collections of engravings in
the art room has been continued, but the greater part of the time was devoted
to separating the various collections and checking them on available memo-
randum lists.

In addition to the regular work in the library the assistant librarian, Mr.
Paul Brockett, has reconstructed the memorandum list of the collection of
engravings and works of art which were purchased by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in 1849 from Mr. George Perkins Marsh. Whatever catalogue may
have been made of this collection at the time of the purchase was destroyed
in the fire of 1866. The list as reconstructed gives the full title of almost
all the books and indicates the number of engravings that should be in the
collection. In addition to the reconstruction of this list, Mr. Brockett has
been engaged in preparing a bibliography of aeronautical literature which is
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

to include the indexing of papers in periodicals and proceedings of aeronautical
societies, together with books and separate pamphlets on the subject. The
work of indexing is nearing completion.

The American Historical Association.—The exchange of the annual reports of
the American Historical Association from the allotment agreed upon for that
purpose was continued, with the result that a large number of publications of
historical societies throughout the world have been received.

The museum library.a—The National Museum library has continued to
receive from Prof. Otis T. Mason and Dr. C. D. White many gifts of scientific
publications which are of great value to the museum library in completing sets
and filling in the series of authors’ separates. Mr. William Schaus has added
materially to the books in the sectional library of the division of insects, which
are needed in the work on his collections of insects presented to the museum.
Dr. Charles W. Richmond has presented another installment of books and
pamphlets, one of the collections in this gift being the Thunberg dissertations,
which are for the most part rare and difficult to obtain. He is making efforts
to bring together a complete set.

The library was unfortunate in losing by resignation the capable and valued
services of Miss Margaret C. Dyer, who had been assistant in the museum
library for a number of years.

The library of the museum has benefited by the plan adopted by the Interna-
tional Catalogue of Scientific Literature of sending to authors lists of their
scientific writings that have been entered in the catalogue and requesting any
that have not been cited, as the larger number of responses received are in the
form of separates from periodicals, journals, etc., which are no longer desired
for the Smithsonian deposit.

In the museum library there are now 383,564 volumes, 52,112 unbound papers,
and 108 manuscripts. The additions during the year consisted of 3,257 books,
4,470 pamphlets, and 247 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 1,000 books,
of which 89 belonged to the Smithsonian library; 2,257 complete volumes of
periodicals, and 4,056 pamphlets, of which 26 belonged to the Smithsonian
library.

Attention has been given to the preparation of volumes for binding, with the
result that 1,086 books were sent to the government bindery.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general
library amounted to 39,556, including 10,314, which were assigned to the sec-
tional libraries. This does not include, however, the large number of books
consulted in the library but not withdrawn.

The sectional libraries established in the museum have remained the same, the
complete list now standing as follows:

Administration. Geology. Paleobotany.
Administrative Assistant. | History. Parasites.

Anthropology. Insects. Photography.

Biology. Mammals. Physical Anthropology.
Birds. Marine Invertebrates. Prehistoric Archeology.
Botany. Materia Medica. Reptiles.

Comparative Anatomy. Mesozoic fossils. Invertebrate Paleontology.
Editor. Mineralogy. Superintendent.
Ethnology. Mollusks. Taxidermy.

fishes. Oriental Archeology. Technology.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

The following table summarizes all the accessions during the year except for
the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is separately administered :

Smithsoniansdepositpinauhe WMibrary, of Congress! ss 24, TTT

Office, Astrophysical Observatory, National Zoological Park, Interna-
HONA SH RCN ANCES! == te ST Pe ee ee eee By Ul Tl
Uhranraee) Siac INE EO aveh GIS esa Tb Oy ee eye 7, 974
TO Crea peti os at 5 ant Mg CSE ee _ 36, 068

Respectfully submitted.
Cyrus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in charge of Library and Hxechanges.
Dr. CHARLES D.. WALCOTT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX VII.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITHRATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908.

The organization known as the “ International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture” has by means of the cooperation of all of the principal countries of the
wor!d been publishing since 1901, in seventeen annual volumes, a classified
index catalogue of the current scientific literature of the world. Each country
collects, indexes, and classifies the scientific literature published within its bor-
ders and furnishes to the central bureau in London the material thus prepared
for publication in the annual volumes.

The cost of preparation is borne by the countries taking part in the work, in
the great majority of cases the support being derived through direct govern-
mental grants. The entire cost of printing and publishing is borne by the sub-
seribers to the catalogue. The bureau for the United States contributes yearly
about 11 per cent of the entire work.

The allotment for the present fiscal year made by Congress for this purpose
was $5,000, the same as for previous years. Five persons are regularly em-
ployed in the preparation of the classified index to American scientific literature.

During the year there were 28,528 references to American scientific litera-
ture completed and forwarded to the central bureau in London as follows:

TE AU PreS cozy DURA ON Bed OS 0 AA RG i SN ee ee es Sno eee 408
BAD tees reas Us TITS Cos em ©) (0) me aA ee a ee 523
AMOr tees sea Gy tad) Cc eee eee ee ks OS Sica i a cep a es 366
WHILE AG IEE CeO thet O ()A sake es eter em red ee Te eS ee es 8 ee 956
TEM UHSy Cea TONE ol OO) Oat ne ce ee eee eee 5,629
TOASTED UUM CON E TOOLS ee hy te ae PI ee ee eee (Pale
iteratunre. Ob 90 (esse ees ae Gi Weta Onder we est Rate Le ie 13,429

BE be a ee I a er 28,528

Twenty-one volumes of the catalogue were received and delivered to subscrib-
ers in this country, as follows:

Fifth Annual Issue—Mechanics, Physics, Chemistry, Meteorology, Mineralogy,
General Biology, Botany, Zoology, Anatomy, Anthropology, Physiology, and Bac-
teriology, completing the issue.

Sixth Annual Issue—Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy, Meteorology, Miner-
alogy, Geology, Geography, Zoology, and Anatomy.

All sections of the civilized world are represented in this enterprise, as shown
by the following list of the regional bureaus now established and regularly fur-
nishing to the London central bureau classified citations of scientific papers
published within their domains: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark,
Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary, India and Ceylon,
Italy, Japan, Mexico, New South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Poland (Aus-

77
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

trian, Russian, and Prussian), Portugal, Queensland, Russia, South Africa,
South Australia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United States of America,
Victoria, and Western Australia.

Much interest has attached to the consolidation of the famous zoological
yearbook known as the ‘“ Zoological Record” with the zoology volume of the
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. By an agreement with the
Zoological Society of London a plan was consummated whereby the Inter-
national Catalogue agreed to compile through its regional bureaus the index
to the world’s zoological literature; the Zoological Society of London under-
taking on its part to revise and edit the material thus furnished, the staff of
specialists previously intrusted with the preparation of the Zoological Record
being retained as editors. The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
assumed all responsibilities connected with the publication and sale of the
combined volumes.

If the amalgamation of interests above referred to meets with continued suc-
cess it is to be earnestly hoped that the numerous other independent scientific
bibliographies and yearbooks may gradually become similarly associated with
the International Catalogue, for great waste of energies and money result in
the production of similar publications covering identical fields.

Since the first volumes were published the bulk of the catalogue has been
increasing each year. The fifth annual issue aggregated 12,000 printed pages,
which is 2,000 pages larger than the fourth issue. At present the actual
expenses of the London central bureau for editing and printing alone so nearly
reach the total receipts derived from subscriptions that it has been found
necessary to limit the work strictly to its originally defined scope and also to
be most careful in the use of cross references in preparing the subject catalogue.

In order not to limit the usefulness of the index, condensation has to be most
earefully done, and more time is required in careful selection and specific
classification than would be the case if economy of printed space were not so
imperative.

However, this extreme care in classification is beneficial to both the pub-
lishers and the users of the catalogue, for it necessitates in the classifier a
most thorough grasp of the subject of each paper in order that a specific place
in the subject catalogue may be assigned, rigid!y excluding all unessential or
general cross references, thus, while printed space is economized, the users of
the work are saved all unnecessary labor in looking up general references
not directly treating the special subject in which they are concerned.

In the sundry civil bill approved May 27, 1908, $5,000 was appropriated to
earry on the work for the fiscal year ending June 380, 1909.

Respectfully submitted.

Cyrus ADLER,
Assistant Secretary, in charge of Library and Hachanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX VIII.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publications of
the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the fiscal year ending June
30, 1908:

There have been distributed a total of 5,624 volumes and separates in the
series of “Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” 25,SSS in the series of
* Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,’ 22,945 in the series of ‘*‘ Smithsonian
Annual Reports,’ and 4,989 in the series of ‘‘ Special Publications.” In addi-
tion thereto there were 499 publications not included in the Smithsonian series
that were sent out by the Institution, making a grand total of 59,895, an increase
of 17,974 over the previous year, and the largest number distributed during the
last five years with the exception of the year 1905.

I. SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE,

In the series of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, three memoirs,
which were in press at the close of the last fiscal year, have been published.

1692. Glaciers of the Canadian Rockies and Selkirks. Report of the Smith-
sonian Expedition of 1904. By William Hittell Sherzer, Ph. D. Quarto.
Pages xii, 135, with 42 plates. Part of Volume XXXIV.

In this memoir Doctor Sherzer discusses the indicated physiographic changes
in the region during the Mesozoic and Pleistocene periods; the question of
precipitation of snow and rain, and the effect of climatic cycles on glacial
movements; the structure of the ice as to stratification, shearing, blue bands,
ice dykes, glacial granules, and the possible methods of their development; the
theories of glacial motion as applied to these glaciers; and the cause of the
richness and variety of coloring of glaciers and glacial lakes.

1718. The Young of the Crayfishes Astacus and Cambarus. By EH. A. Andrews.
Quarto. Pages 79, with 10 plates. Part of Volume XXXV.

In this memoir there is described and illustrated the young of two kinds of
crayfishes, one from Oregon and one from Maryland, representing the two most
diverse forms in North America. ‘The first, second, and third larval stages are
determined, and there is described the hitherto unknown nature of successive
mechanical attachments of the offspring to the parent.

_1723. The Apodous Holothurians. A Monograph of the Synaptidse and Mo-
lopadiide. Including a report on the representatives of these families in the
collections of the United States National Museum. By Hubert Lyman Clark.
Quarto. Pages 231, with 13 plates. Part of Volume XXXV.

This memoir gives a summary of present knowledge of the two families of
sea cucumbers, which lack tube feet.

There was in press at the close of the year, to meet the increasing demand for
the work, a reprint of Mr. Langley’s memoir on “The Internal Work of the
Wind,” originally published in 1893 in quarto form as No. S884, Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge. To the present edition was added as an appendix
a translation of the “ Solution of a Special Case of the General Problem,” by
Réné de Saussure, which appeared in 1893 with “Le Travail Intérieur du
Vent” in Revue de l’Aéronautique Théorique et Appliqué, Paris, pages 58-68.

79
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Il, SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS,

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Volumes L and LII,
there were published 82 papers in the Quarterly Issue, Volume IV, parts 2, 3,
and 4, and Volume V, part 1. There were also published, in the regular series
of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 8 papers, appearing in Volumes
XGMIEXS Tal and!) Tie

In the Quarterly Issue series:

1724. The Air Sacs of the Pigeon. By Bruno Miiller. Published January 16,
1908. Octayo. Pages 365-414 (Volume IV, part 3), with Plates XLY—XLIX.
Hodgkins fund.

1725. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly Issue. Volume IV,
part 2 (containing Nos. 1726-17385). Octavyo. Pages 133-288, with Plates
XV-XXII. .

1726. Notes on a Small Collection of Mammals from the Province of Kan-Su,
China. By Marcus Ward Lyon, jr. Published July 9, 1907. Octavo. Pages
183-188, with Plates XV—XVI.

1727. Descriptions of New Species of Shells, Chiefly Buccinidse, from the
Dredgings of the U. 8S. S. Albatross during 1906 in the Northwestern Pacific,
Bering, Okhotsk, and Japanese seas. By William Healey Dall. Published July
9, 1907. Octavo. Pages 139-173.

1728. A New Larch from Alaska. By W. F. Wight. Published July 10, 1907.
Octavo. Page 174, with Plate XVII.

1729. The Lumpsucker; its Relationship and Habits. By Theodore Gill.
Published July 10, 1907. Octavo. Pages 175-194.

1730. New Plants of the Pacific Slope, with Some Revisions. By Charles
V. Piper. Published August 23, 1907. Octavo. Pages 195-202.

1731. Contributions to the Study of the Canyon Diablo Meteorites. By
George P. Merrill and Wirt Tassin. Published September 12, 1907. Octavo.
Pages 203-215 with Plates X VIII-XXI.

1782. Louis Agassiz. By Charles Doolittle Walcott. Published September 12,
1907. Octavo. Pages 216-218, with Plate XXII.

1783. Terrestrial Isopods of the Family Eubelids, collected in Liberia by Dr.
oO. F. Cook. By. Harriet Richardson. Published September 12, 1907. Octavo.
Pages 219-247.

1734. The Relations of the Chinese to the Philippine Islands. By Berthold
Laufer. Published September 18, 1907. Octavo. Pages 248-284.

1735. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume IV, part 2. Octavo. Pages 285-287.

1772. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly Issue. Volume IV,
part 3 (containing Nos. 1773-1779, and 1724). Octavo. Pages 289-418, with
Plates XXIII-XLIX.

1773. Excavations at Casa Grande, Arizona, in 1906-7. By J. Walter Fewkes.
Published October 25, 1907. Octavo. Pages 289-829, with Plates XXIJI-XL.

1774. Nopalea guatemalensis, a New Cactus from Guatemala. By J. N. Rose.
Published October 28, 1907. Octavo. Page 330, with Plates XLI-XLII.

1775. Pereskiopsis, a New Genus of Cactacee. By N. L. Britton and J. N.
Rose. Published October 28, 1907. Octavo. Pages 3831-834, with Plates
XLIII-XLIV.

1776. Two New Ferns of the Genus Lindsea. By Lucien M. Underwood and
William R. Maxon. Published October 28, 1907. Octavo. Pages 335-836.

1777. Five New Recent Crinoids from the North Pacific Ocean. By Austin
Hobart Clark. Published October 29, 1907. Octavo. Pages 337-842.

1778. New Genera of Recent Free Crinoids. By Austin Hobart Clark. Pub-
lished October 29, 1907. Octavo. Pages 343-364.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SI

1779. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume IV, part 3. Octavo. Pages 415-416.

1780. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly Issue. Volume IY,
part 4 (containing Nos. 1781-1788). Octavo. Pages i-viii, 419-558, with Plates
L-LXXV.

1781. New and Characteristic Species of Fossil Mollusks from the Oil-bearing
Tertiary Formations of Santa Barbara County, California. By Ralph Arnold.
Published December 13, 1907. Octavo. Pages 419-448, with Plates L-LVIII.

1782. On the Occurrence of Remains of Fossil Cetaceans of the Genus Schi-
zodelphis in the United States, and on Priscodelphis (7?) crassangulum Case.
By Frederick W. True. Published January 27, 1908. Octavo. Pages 449-460,
with Plates LIX-LX.

1783. The Meteor Crater of Canyon Diablo, Arizona; its History, Origin, and
Associated Meteoric Irons. By George P. Merrill. Published January 27, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 461-498, with Plates LXI-LXXYV.

1784. Notes on Gonidea angulata Lea, a Fresh-water Bivalve, with Description
of a New Variety. By William H. Dall. Published January 28, 1908. Octavo.
Pages 499-500.

1785. A New Species of Cavolina, with Notes on Other Pteropods. By Wil-
liam H. Dall. Published January 28, 1908. Octavo. Pages 501-502.

1786. A Preliminary Treatment of the Opuntioidee of North America. By
N. L. Britton and J. N. Rose. Published February 20, 1908. Octavo. Pages
503-539.

1787. Observations on the Mosquitoes of Saskatchewan. By Frederick Knab.
Published February 20, 1908. Octayo. Pages 540-547.

1788. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume IV, part 4. Octavo. Pages 548-550.

1789. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue, Volume IV),
Volume L. Octavo. Pages i—viii, 1-558, with Plates I-LXXV.

1792. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Quarterly Issue. Volume V,
part 1 (containing Nos. 1793-1802). Octavo. Pages 1-119, with Plates I-VIII.

1793. The Cretaceous Fishes of Ceara, Brazil. By David Starr Jordan and
John Casper Branner. Published April 29, 1908. Octavo. Pages 1-30, with
Plates I-VIII.

1794. Observation of the Total Solar Eclipse of January 3, 1908: A Bolo-
metric Study of the Solar Corona. By C. G. Abbot. Published April 30, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 31-48.

1795. Report on a Trip for the Purpose of Studying the Mosquito Fauna of
Panama. By August Busck. Published May 1, 1908. Octavo. Pages 49-78.

1796. Carl Ludwig Rominger. By George P. Merrill. Published May 1, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 79-82.

1797. Edward Travers Cox. By George P. Merrill. -Published May 1, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 83-S4.

1798. An Apparently New Protoblattid Family from the Lower Cretaceous.
By Evelyn Groesbeeck Mitchell. Published May 27, 1908. Octavo. Pages
85-86.

1799. Necessary Changes in the Nomenclature of Starfishes. By Walter K.
Fisher. Published May 27, 1908. Octavo. Pages 87-94.

1800. Identity of a Supposed Whitefish, Coregonus angusticeps Cuvier and
Valenciennes, with a Northern Cyprinid, Platygobio gracilis (Richardson). By
William Converse Kendall. Published May 27, 1908. Octavo. Pages 95-100.

1801. The Millers-thumb and its Habits. By Theodore Gill. Published June
18, 1908. Octavo. Pages 101-116.

1802. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume V, part 1. Octavo. Pages 117-118.
82 ANNUAL REPORT-SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

There were about to go to press in the Quarterly Issue at the close of the
fiscal year: Indians of Peru, by Charles C, Eberhardt; and the Nettelroth Col-
lection of Invertebrate Fossils, by R. S. Bassler.

In the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections the following
have been published :

1717. Report on the Crustacea (Brachyura and Anomura) Collected by the
North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 1853-1856. By William Stimpson. Octayo.
Pages 240, with Plates I-XXVI. Part of Volume XLIX.

This work, which was in press at the close of the fiscal year 1907, was edited
by Miss Mary J. Rathbun. Its scope and the causes for delay in its publication
were discussed in the report for last year.

1720. Samuel Pierpont Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
1887-1906. Memorial meeting December 3, 1906. Addresses by Doctor White,
Professor Pickering, and Mr. Chanute. Octayo. Pages 49. Part of Volume
XLIX.

1741. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Volume XLIX (containing Nos.
1584, 1652, 1717, 1720, and 1721). (Cover, title-page, advertisement, and table
of contents.) Octavo. Pages v.

1791. The Development of the American Alligator. By Albert M. Reese.
Octavo. Pages 66, with Plates I-XXIII. Part of Volume LI.

1803. The Taxonomy of the Muscoidean Flies, including Descriptions of New
Genera and Species. By Charles H. T. Townsend. Octavo. Pages 158. Part
of Volume LI.

1804. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 1, Nomenclature of Sdéme
Cambrian Cordilleran Formations. By Charles D. Walcott. Octavo. Pages
1-12. Part of Volume LIII.

1805. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 2, Cambrian Trilobites. By
Charles D. Walcott. Octavo. Pages 13-52, with plates 1-6. Part of Volume
Hentoliles

1807. Smithsonian Exploration in Alaska in 1907 in Search of Pleistocene
Fossil Vertebrates. By Charles W. Gilmore. Octayvo. Pages 38, with Plates
I—-XIII. Part of Volume LI. -

At the close of the fiscal year there were in press in the regular series of
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections the following papers, which continue the
studies of Cambrian Geology and Paleontology by Charles D. Walcott: No. 3,
Cambrian Brachiopoda: Descriptions of New Genera and Species; No. 4, Classi-
fication and Terminology of the Cambrian Brachiopoda; and No. 5, Cambrian
Sections of the Cordilleran Area. These papers will form parts of Volume
LIII of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collection, which it is proposed to
devote entirely to these studies.

There was also in press the Smithsonian Mathematical Tables: Hyperbolic
Functions, by George I’. Becker and C. EK. Van Orstrand.

Ill SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The annual report for 1906 was in type at the close of the last fiscal year, but
final printing, binding, and delivery were not completed until October.

The secretary's report for 1907, forming a part of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, was printed as usual in pamphlet form in No-
vember, 1907, for the use of the board, and a larger edition was afterwards
printed for public distribution, as follows:

1737. Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1907. Octavo. Pages 95.

The full report for 1907 was in type at the close of the fiscal year, though
only partly paged. ‘The general appendix contains the following papers:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

The Steam Turbine on Land and Sea. By Charles A. Parsons.

The Development of Mechanical Composition in Printing. By A. Turpain.

Some Facts and Problems Bearing on Hlectric Trunk Line Operation. By
Frank J. Sprague.

Recent Contributions to Electric Wave Telegraphy. By J. A. Fleming.

On the Properties and Natures of Various Electric Radiations. By W. H.
Bragg.

Progress in Electro-Metallurgy. By J. B. C. Kershaw.

Advances in Color Photography. By T. W. Smillie.

The Structure of Lippmann’s Heliochromes. By 8S. R. Cajal.

Bronze in South America before the Arrival of the Europeans. By A. de
Mortillet.

Some Opportunities for Astronomical Work with Inexpensive Apparatus. By
George E. Hale.

The Progress of Science as Illustrated by the Development of Meteorology.
By Cleveland Abbe. ;

Geology of the Inner Earth: Igneous Ores. By J. W. Gregory.

The Salton Sea. By EF. H. Newell.

Inland Waterways. By George G. Chisholm.

The Present Position of Paleozoic Botany. By D. H. Scott.

The Zoological Gardens and Establishments of Great Britain, Belgium, and
the Netherlands. By Gustave Loisel.

Systematic Zoology; its Progress and Purpose. By Theodore Gill.

The Genealogical History of the Marine Mammals. By O. Abel.

The People of the Mediterranean. By Theobald Fischer.

Ancient Japan. By E. Baelz.

The Origin of Egyptian Civilization. By Edouard Naville.

The Fire Piston. By Henry Balfour.

The Origin of the Canaanite Alphabet. By Franz Pretorius.

Three Aramaic Papyri from Elephantine. By Eduard Sachau.

The Problem of Color Vision. By J. M. Dane.

Immunity in Tuberculosis. By Simon Flexner.

The Air of the New York Subway. By George-A. Soper.

Marcelin Berthelot. By Camille Matignon.

Linnean Memorial Address. By Edward L. Greene.

IV. SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

AS a special publication there was issued for distribution to correspondents
the following:

1806. Classified list of Smithsonian Publications Available for Distribution,
May, 1908. Octavo. Pages 40.

There was also printed for general distribution, without a serial number, a
duodecimo pamphlet of 8 pages entitled ‘“ The International Catalogue of Sci-
entific Literature, Regional Bureau for the United States.” This pamphlet
gives the purpose, briefly describes the work, and summarizes the results of the
International Catalogue.

A similar pamphlet went to press at the close of the fiscal year: “Rules for
the Abbreviation of Titles of Scientific Periodicals in Publications of the Smith-
sonian Institution and its branches.”

Vv. PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (@) The annual report, form-
ing a separate volume of the Report to Congress by the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution; (0) The Proceedings of the United States National
84 ANNUAL REPORT. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Museum; (c) The Bulletin of the United States National Museum; and (d)
the Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The publications issued during the year are enumerated in the Report on
the National Museum. These included the Annual Report of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1907, part 2, National Museum, pub-
lished as serial number 1790 in the Smithsonian series; Volume XXNXITI of
the Proceedings; Bulletins 59, GO, and 61, and a reprint of Bulletin 39; Vol-
ume X, parts 5, 6, and 7, and Volume XII, parts 1, 2, and 3, of the. Contribu-
tions from the United States National Herbarium, including a special edition
of Volume XII, part 2. At the close of the fiscal year Volume XXXIV of the
Proceedings and Bulletin 62 were in course of preparation.

VI. PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology was
issued in September, and Bulletins 33, 35, and 56 in November, February, and
June, respectively, with the usual separates. A special publication was issued
in June under the title “ Indian Missions.” At the close of the year there were
in course of preparation, besides the twenty-sixth annual report, Bulletins 34,
Physiological and Medical Observations Among the Indians of Southwestern
United States and Northern Mexico (Hrdlicka); 88, Unwritten Literature
of Hawaii (Emerson) ; 39, Tlingit Texts and Myths (Swanton) ; and 40, Hand-
book of American Indian Languages, Part I (Boas).

VII. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Volume II of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, by C. G. Abbot
and F. E. Fowle, jr., was published in quarto form (pages xi, 245, with 29
plates). (Smithsonian serial No. 1738.) i

The preface of the volume states:

“The Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution was founded
through the efforts of the late Secretary Langley, who was its director until
his death. The research described in the present volume is a continuation
of the work on the relations of the sun to climate and life upon the earth, of
which he was a brilliant pioneer investigator.

“Mr. Langley expressed the hope that careful study of the radiation of the
sun might eventually lead to the discovery of means of forecasting climatic
conditions for some time in advance. It is believed that the present volume
will aid materially to show how far that hope may be justified, for it contains
eareful and comparable measurements of the solar radiation, extending over
several years. These indicate that the sun’s radiation alters in its intensity
from time to time, and that these alterations are sufficient to affect the tempera-
ture of the earth very appreciably.”

A short note on the “ Reflecting power of clouds” to accompany Volume II of
the annals was in press at the close of the year.

VIII. REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

Volume II of the annual report of the American Historical Association for
the year 1905, comprising a complete bibliography of the publications of Amer-
ican historical societies for more than a century, was issued in February. ‘The
annual report for 1906 had gone to press at the close of the fiscal year.

IX. REPORT OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The Tenth Report of the National Society of the Daughters of the American
Revolution was received from the society and submitted to Congress in accord-
ance with law on March 25,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

X. SMITHSONIAN COMMITTEE ON PRINTING.

The editor has served as secretary of the Smithsonian advisory committee
on printing and publication. To this committee have been referred the manu-
scripts proposed for publication by the various branches of the Institution, and
also those offered for printing in the quarterly issue of the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections. The committee has likewise passed upon blank forms for
current use in the Institution and its branches. The committee considered and
reported to the Secretary on various questions relating in general to printing
and publication. Twenty-six meetings were held during the year and 137
papers were reported on.

The committee formulated the following rules for abbreviation of titles:

RULES FOR THE ABBREVIATION OF TITLES OF SCIENTIFIC PERIODICALS IN PUBLICA-
TIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND ITS BRANCHES.

1. In abbreviating words in titles stop before the second vowel, unless the re-
sulting abbreviation would contain but one consonant, in which case stop before
the third vowel.

Haramples.
PANE EVD Gh Lay rg ses ie en SR Se ee Se ee ee AD
JENCENG (SS 0 ie at a a I a eee et Acad.
TBH SPEND ON ea an a ai a a ES Ty oe a ce ie ee Ber.

Eerplanations and exceptions.

A. The following words have irregular abbreviations to avoid confusion with
other words having the same beginning, but different termination, or for other
reasons:

AT oly iCale anaes Sane soe ek ee yee hes 2k ae oe Analyt.
ANTHEA EXC ALD URED A (CO) ei-Ta I) ) Eines OE eS he a eS ee ee ee Archit.
PASEO WY: S1CS is (COIS =a) [ees eww es ek od Astrophys.
1a oy liKoyeq ea 0) My? NORE Ce!) a ee ee Bibliogr.
College. (Not abbreviated.)

AS OL rea 1 evry ae a Re ae Se ee Pee Columb.
Hithnoenap hye (Omen) =e = ee ee ee eee eee Ethnogr.
EE Xaq Oe Tr mn teed ee ee ee eS pees Se Exper.
HVELAISS ee GNise. = Sota an = ee oo ee eee See ee Hrsg.
VETO (DES EV CU Ep fa oS RS a ae ee ee ey ee ee ee ee Indust.
MaMa churesm (OLIN) =a ees a ee eee ee ee Mfr.
Be Mg.
Omi yee ee eee os me Oe Sl a te ae Mo.

VE G5 aN Ee ae ee ee ee Ee ee Monogr.
hilo somhiva (OGc=1Call)\ eee we ee oe ee Philos.
DY SOO Sygn (O17 1 Callli) eae eee ee ee eee Physiol.
12 Mike ior ce a\nlaynNenavor0) 17) ue Oe es ee Pub.

PERS THES Tsk OPE NA eee ae ene Re ee he eee BEES Se Repert.
SEE TOS HU Oy aes ee re re ehh et hee ee ee ae Repos.
tsreneravere: (rales (enka yb Ve) ees 8 ESS OE en eee een Sci.

SS CCG greys 5 ate Se ee ei Se eee ae Sociol.
SSH PZU ISS CSUR (Cop 0 ser GtT) Me ae ea IN RS ee pe eee Statist.
Telephone ( Om iC) ae Se sel eat es eA lee ih ed De Teleph.

B. The following abbreviations in common use, also the ordinary post-office
abbreviations for States of the United States, are allowable: R. R. (rail-
road); C. R. (comptes rendus); k. k. (kaiserlich und koniglich); U. S.
86 ANNUAL REPORT.SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

(United States); N. S. W. (New South Wales); Lond. (London); Par.
Paris) ; Ber. (Berlin) ; St. Petersb. (St. Petersburg) ; Phila. (Philadelphia), etc.

C. Compound German, Norwegian, and Swedish words may be abbreviated
(a) by adding to the first component the consonant or consonants immediately
following, or (0b) by abbreviating each component according to rule 1 and
connecting them by hyphens.

Haxamples,
Monatsh els Chit2e ss ea ee ae ee Monatsb. or Mon.-Ber.
INatinvidenskabeliisti== a2 Sa eee Natury. or Nat.-Vid.
Iba GUM oe NaN Landh. or Land-Hush.

D. Numerals occurring in titles should be treated thus:

OE SDsT Ae Ci a a a ee eB 50th.
Tf CES TUT ee ne gee ee ee IAC REY So a2 a ee 5th
ED YS DB EY 00 2 eee eg en oP ley Deal ie mays wel PE ae ol en ve a ae 2me.
iene se 222 2 ee ee eee See eee Ate, ete.

2. All articles, prepositions, and conjunctions are to be omitted, except ‘‘ and”
and “ for,’ which may be retained when necessary for clearness.

Haamoples.

Bollettino dei Musei di Zodlogia ed Anatomia Comparata=Boll. Mus. Zool. ed
Anat. Comp.

Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia=Proc. Acad.
Nat. Sei. Phila. ;

Mémoires pour servir 4 l’Histoire Physique et Naturelle de la Suisse=Mém.
Hist. Phys. et Nat. Suisse.

3. In abbreviated titles, the words should follow strictly the order of the
full titles.
Haamples.

Proceedings of the Bivlogical Society of Washington=Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington; not Washington Biol. Soc. Proe.

Annales de la Société Entomologique de Paris=Ann. Soe. Ent. Paris; not Paris
Ann. Soe. Ent.

4. (a) Words of one syllable, (0) titles consisting of a single word, (¢) names
of towns (except as indicated under rule 5), (@) names of persons (when un-
modified), and (¢€) names of geological formations, are not to be abbreviated.

5. Whenever necessary for clearness any of the foregoing rules may be disre-
garded, but in such cases words should not be abbreviated.

XI. PRESS ABSTRACTS OF PUBLICATIONS.

Continuing the policy established in March, 1907, an editorial assistant has
been engaged in preparing abstracts of such publications of the Institution
and its branches as could be put in popular language for the use of newspapers
throughout the country. There have also been sent out a number of brief
accounts of current investigations and longer descriptions of the general work
of the Institution, including that of the International Catalogue, the Inter-
national Exchanges, the Astrophysical Observatory and other branches.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp CiarK, Hditor,

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

For THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1908.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the Institu-
tion, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and
the ruin of Casa Grande for the year ending June 30, 1908, together
with balances of previous appropriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1908.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

Bequest or smuithson, ISt62tsseas eens eh ct oth ke elu slosh lak. Coes $515, 169. 00
hesiduary lesacy of Smithson, 186/224. oss coe wee... oe ane eee 26, 210. 63
Wenosititrone sayinos OhiMcomes (SG 2 4045s lente sooo eee 108, 620. 37
Bequestof James Hamilton, 1875. .22'. 2.52. 4-ss scene cen: $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895 ..........-.-- 1, 000. 00
——__ 2, 000. 00
aquest omsmeon Habel; IS802e2. <\\s5 2225052205 Sess ele oes eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881................--.--.--- 51, 500. 00
trator, | Homes Gs Hodgins 189lure 02 sae koe Sok 5a yueaeeeeas 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894...............- 8, 000. 00
HWepariurom pavines OL wMCOMe, LO0a. 2-22. jas cec 5 le ose ek See ee 25, 000. 00
Resitiarylesacy of Thomas G: Hodgkins. 2.4. 5.22..5o...25 522 2secce 7,918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury............- 944, 918. 69

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Company,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value).......-.....----- 42, 000. 00

Potali permanent Une shoe ee de re ey oe ole 8 986, 918. 69

Also four small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton
Avery, of Washington, D. C.
88292—sm 1908——7 87
88 ANNUAL REPORT-SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States
bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of the act
of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution, and an act of Congress
approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore
Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate received
from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and yields only
a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1907, to June 80, 1908.

RECEIPTS.
Cash on deposit in the United States Treasury July 1, 1907............- $24, 592. O1
Interest on fund deposited in the United States Treasury, due
DilyeoOOtvand wanuary ls O0SS: Alisa eee od eee. $56, 582. 52
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds to January 1, 1908... 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, etc............---------- 4,810. 44
iProcecas irom! ¢laimsiin litigationes.--o-csss44ee- oes cee es 300. 00
—_——— 63, 372.96
87, 964, 97
DISBURSEMENTS.
IBulldines care and Tepairal asc. 242 sca see 2 ee cae yur a Aree Sees ea $5, 457. 35
RUE buUresan Get XbUPe see ae See ee eh ee en eS orate peat vey ae eee 1, 645. 84
General expenses:
PLAT CS Ase eek AEE Ae ei he Bete A ets eae be $17, 318. 53
LASS) NOY 2TS io learn aera ne ct el ng ES SR 8 246. 85
DEAtIONCHYy see as ee es eta hey, Pt et ent he nee emecvanne Ace 904. 07
Postage, telegraph, and telephones .---............---- 365. 90
IR reo bite aren ah: tee ANE io. LE Seed lee tere, ae 113.18
in Gidemtal sy years ees ase tase) meer ee ee ee Il, B33, 0
Stalblessree ssc w sos secs ee Se cle eine era eu ake Ae 2, 274. 57
————— 22, 356. 82
EVRA TY, Seer gs Seo ae alee ey Se Meehan ee act a ae 2, 351. 65
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellaneous collections!2.2-4--2 22 2 seces eee 6, 651. 46
Contributions tokknowledge. 5.2222... -05+ss<5-2 eee 4, 785. 63
RCD OTUS see.) seek ae eee aa ae are tae 561. 57
Special publications 4. ss= 6: eae eee ic cet ase meee 175. 10
hublicationtsupplies sence suas e seiee Sa ees eae 371. 85
SIT EW i s/s Ne eet SAO 9s) ERO ae Pe Oc a Beebe Meee a 5, 562. 75
— 18, 108. 86
iDxplorarons and sesearchesieceaacce ee coee ee esse aks een eee 8, 452. 25
Hodgkins specific fund, researches and publications. ...........-....-- 2, 629. 18
internationalexchangsesie nc cfnc eee oes tee cick ere mutes ace. CRE aE 4,142.49
LDryeq st Bey.g of eT Ce" gene ee, IPS hes a eae ed Oe eae OE Es 2, 923. 82
PAST DATAGLIS 2 tafe orcte Soca cle eee ane etch ars oes ee a 584. 95
Gallery Of7Art’ Us ccent Se cuccnteeocemce cet enews vs mcicieme ae eee 305. 85
68, 958. 56
lari tom fund so eee eee Stee ee an eB oc wc coats aE 240. 00
69, 198. 56

Balance, June 30, 1908, deposited with the Treasurer of the United States. 18, 766. 41
87, 964. 97
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 89

By authority, your executive committee employed Mr. J. E. Bates,
a certified public accountant, to audit the receipts and disbursements
of the Smithsonian Institution during the period covered by this report.
His certificate of examination supports the foregoing statement, and
reads as follows:

Wasuineton, D. C., October 1, 1908.
The Executive CommitTrEr, BoarpD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

GENTLEMEN: I certify that I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908, and find the following cash
statement to be correct:

Toby sloO/y amount On hans. ost. 55-2 sen a tase ese ae ee scence sass $24, 592. 01
RECEIPTS.
Total receipts for year ending June 30, 1908.-._-............-....-.... 63, 372. 96
SNS A ca a Ree nS a care Ee See Ee a 87, 964. 97
DISBURSEMENTS.
Total disbursements for year ending June 30, 1908--.........---....--- 69, 198. 56
umes sl90Sbalance:onuhand seen oes meses eee ese se ee eee tee 18, 766. 41

June 30, 1908, balance as per United States Treasurer’s statement after
deducting all outstanding checks unpaid ......-..-.---.-+-----.-<--- 18, 766. 41

Respectfully, yours,
(Signed) J. E. Bates,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income
during the year ending June 30, 1908, each of which bears the approval
of the secretary, or, in his absence, of the acting secretary, and a cer-
tificate that the materials and services charged were applied to the
purposes of the Institution, have been examined by the auditor in
connection with the books of the Institution and found correct.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress, and will be found in the printed
document.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appropria-
tions for the fiscal year 1908, intrusted by Congress to the care of the
Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations at the
beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June 30,

1908:
Available Balance
July 1, 1907. |June 30, 1908.
Smithsonian Institution, balance July 1) 1907 222. -22 62 -----.---c2n---0---- $24, 592. 01
Smithsonian Institution, receipts to June 30, 1908 .-...-........--..-..---- 63, 372. 96
87, 964. 97 $18, 766. 41
Appropriations committed by Congress to care of the Institution:
Imtermanonalexchang es 906 esa sae cere ces se iaciseice tere cece cence. 3.98 23.98
IMbernmahionalvexchanres: sl G07 seer sasee sere soe cscs aaa ceeeeecesee ce 22210 /6uliwces sree sete
imbernanonal exchanges, 1908 ceccce ssce cies ese ese esos ee asccdecssces 32, 000. 00 2,667.88 »
AMMericanvh thnologyaed 906 secceaseoeciccmace nce aceecee ee see cecieses crcl 9.51 a8,09
American Ethnology nal 90728 ce secre coe cceiaice nels cicieaselcencicmisimercinete 933. 80 10. 26
American Mthnology, L908 sascccassacees sc eecsoae chemo cedececeewcccson, 40, 000. 00 947. 64
Astrophysicali@pservatotys 1906 2. - sce ee sae eee elce sees aee 157. 26 261.86
AS trOphysicalyObServatonye 190755 seme see cisaec ee ee eos eeisiemer= = Boe 1, 937. 98 36. 50
AstrophysicaliObservyatony, 1908 ssesemcccee a= = cise asters sate esiciocice seine 18, 000. 00 2, 155. 35
internationaliGatalogiie: 1907s senses ce cscee seme oe ee ee Caeniceeice 120. 94 11, 24
ImtermationaliGataloriwe O08 -e-eaececcetie cs cieceerinciosie sa seeere = Basie 5, 000. 00 145, 37
Ruin of CasaiGran de; 190% 5. s.cs2ceessesb dc oeuc Gees wotetiost see ceseesce 53 53
RuinofCasaiGrande 1908 ~ocetennse see ceteciesiewincSeseceeeececoesenicsce 3, 000. 00 7.98
National Museum:
Furniture and fixtures, 1906 +. -2.--2.2ci2-seeceecs-esececcecvecee: 410. 93 a 410.93
HURMIUne ANG EXbuUres a OO je seems eece moc eater enone moans 8, 492. 34 1383. 79
Rurniture van di tixtunesss)908 — asereccestseecce emeciacecnics sees cee eee 20, 000. 00 1, 813. 83
Heatin sand Lighting G0GS. one cicc ececinccmc oo tetese ce sauce eerie 244, 38 a 244. 38
HMeatinovand igh tine i190 jaasecs saan eeeecaceacect se nec wee cae nee 1, 823. 80 137.70
Heatingianduishting 1908s sssases epee sae or aceemen arenes een 18, 000. 00 1, 345.14
ibreseryationyot collections, M906eesiss4- 2 oe eee sae ae ease eee nee 1, 025.19 a 927.48
iPresenvailonjior collections 1 90/easeaeen seneceseeccneoae eee eee 3, 689. 81 471.89
IRresenvanom or collections 100Smees sec ue eee eee cee ee eee eee eee 190, 000. 00 4,767.33
IBOOK Ay G06 sacs eee eee e Oat ce ate e eee e Suc cree meme: 58. 69 253.40
BOOKS; WOT ost assgedesecceees soecce casks s sei deseseececkemeaeeeesen 1,341. 70 Single
BOOKS, 1908 Fcc sderoes sone eee eae eee oetasnocet secs soaceemecee eee aes 2, 000. 00 935. 04
Postage, 1908) oi 2eteecaticsscec as cmiae oe ool Scie iiela ane» Sneeiieiciace ce DOK ORE sacecesoceses
Building repairs: 1906524. Sssscsdoseccescccs cee secas couse estes creas 105. 98 a 105. 98
Building repairs, 1907.2 se ssesceccace es cscs scenic seen decom 630. 54 35. 88
Building te pairs 1908 cee ciamttesiscie cele cies ce iclele wisrelstele ee eieisinsisisw cise 15, 000. 00 555. 90
Rent orworkshopssl G06 haere cece ciscieicseinacise neiseee emieeieteie sis siete ere . 08 a.08
Rent. Of workshops 190 7easasces sae ine se cise selene eee ele cele sekte cer 08 - 08
Rent.of workshops: L008 Stacie ceteecilsie sete ce soins oa asiseiseeiemiciesi=rs 4, 580. 00 - 08
Printingvan di binding 31908 sesssee sees seen eee eee eee ee 73, 500. 00 20, 814. 28
National: Zoolosicalvbark pl 906 teeeesce sermon es eeeee se oeerasee 512. 80 a 50.37
Nation alyZoolosicalbanks sS0 i teee see meee este attest cleista ela ise ie inicta 8, 258. 85 1.82
National’ZoologicalsParks wlO08 heen ccierictatceee ne ote eee eae a ieisincioe 110, 000. 00 4, 821.57
641, 509. 90

a Balance carried June 30, 1908, to the credit of the surplus fund, Treasury Department, under pro-

vision of section 8691, Revised Statutes.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 91

Statement of income from the Smithsonian fund and other revenues, accrued and pros-
pective, available during the year ending June 80, 1909.

Balance rane) 3 0G Smaak eee Lee ely oui e hath oman ioe cok $18, 766. 41
Interest on fund deposited in the United States Treasury, due July 1,
ho0S sandy January, leloug a wearer sane Sethe op Se Seas ae i oe 56, 695. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds due July 1, 1908, and January
NOD oars a Ny eee etna a NS Na eae eee ee aim 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, rentals, etc....-.-..----- 5, 000. 00
Total available for year ending June 30, 1909...--....-...----- 82, 141. 41

Respectfully submitted.
J. B. HENDERSON,
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
JOHN DALZELL,
Executive Committee.
Wasuineton, D. C.,
December 1, 1908.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSO-
NIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, 1908.

Ata meeting of the Board of Regents held March 12, 1903, the fol-
lowing resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That, in addition to the prescribed meeting held on the fourth Wednes-
day in January, regular meetings of the board shall be held on the Tuesday after
the first Monday in December and on the 6th day of March, unless that date falls on
Sunday, when the following Monday shall be substituted.

At the annual meeting of the board held on January 22, 1908, the
above resolution was amended as follows:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall
hold an annual meeting on the Tuesday after the second Monday in December and
another meeting on the second Wednesday in February.

In accordance with the first of these resolutions, the board met at
10 o’clock a. m. on December 3, 1907, and January 22, 1908, and, as
provided in the second, on February 12, 1908.

REGULAR MEETING OF DECEMBER 3, 1907.

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (chancellor) in the chair, Vice-
President Charles W. Fairbanks, Senator 8. M. Cullom, Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge, Senator A. O. Bacon, Representative John Dalsell, Rep-
resentative James R. Mann, Representative William M. Howard,
Dr. Andrew D. White, the Hon. John B. Henderson, and the secre-
tary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary presented his report on the operations of the Institu-
tion for the year ending June 30, 1907, including the report on the
National Museum for the same time.

On motion, the report was accepted.

AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS.

The secretary brought up the question of auditing the accounts of
the Institution, and after discussion the following resolution was
adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the accounts of the Institution shall be audited annually
under the direction of the executive committee.

92
PROCEEDINGS -OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 93
EMERGENCY SUPERINTENDENT OF CONSTRUCTION.

Referring to the action of the board at the meeting of March 6, 1907,
in providing for a continuation of the work on the new building for
the National Museum under certain contingencies, the secretary
explained that the same necessity existed at the present, and after dis-
cussion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That after this date, if the superintendent of construction of the new
building for the National Museum, whose services are provided for in the sundry
civil act approved March 3, 1903, shall become incapacitated for the performance of
his duties when the board is not in session, the secretary of the Institution, subject
to the approval of the executive committee, is hereby authorized and directed to
personally take charge of the work of construction on behalf of the board and to dis-
burse appropriations made for the same, or appoint some suitable person or persons
to take charge of said construction and disburse such appropriations.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

The secretary read a letter from Mr. Francis Peters Adams, brother
of the late Representative Robert Adams, jr., a regent of this Institu-
tion, acknowledging the action of the board in adopting resolutions
on the death of Mr. Adams.

ESTIMATES.

National Gallery of Art.—The secretary read as follows from sec-
tion 5586 of the act of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution:

Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their recep-
tion, all objects of art and of foreign and curious research * * * shall be deliv-
ered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them.

In this connection he called attention to the following statement of
a special committee of the Board of Regents, and to the resolution of
the board adopted January 26, 1847 (S. Doc., 29th Cong., 2d sess., No.
911, p, 26): &

The gallery of art, your committee think, should include both paintings and
sculpture, as well as engravings and architectural designs; and it is desirable to have
in connection with it one or more studios in which young artists might copy without
interruption, being admitted under such regulations as the board may prescribe.
Your committee also think that, as the collection of paintings and sculpture will
probably accumulate slowly, the room destined for a gallery of art might properly
and usefully meanwhile be occupied during the sessions of Congress as an exhibition
room for the works of artists generally; and the extent and general usefulness of
such an exhibition might probably be increased if an arrangement could be effected
with the Academy of Design, the Arts-Union, the Artists’ Fund Society, and other
associations of similar character, so as to concentrate at the metropolis for a certain
portion of each winter the best results of talent in the fine arts.

Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing the Institution,
and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson as expressed in his will, that
one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

collections of specimens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the
gradual formation of a library of valuable works pertaining to all departments of
human knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science,
literature, and art may be provided which shall excite and diffuse the love of learn-
ing among men, and shall assist the original investigations and efforts of those who
may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of knowledge.

The secretary went on to say that the Smithsonian Institution had
been known for many years as mainly interested in the development
of scientific research, but it had been also interested in art from the
very beginning in connection with the museum; the development of
the museum had been chiefly along the lines of natural history, geol-
ogy, and anthropology, because its first thirty years were coincident
with the period in which scientific men in the United States were
engaged in aiding practical men in the conquest of nature. Even in
this period, however, the fine arts, the decorative, and the applied arts
had received considerable attention.

The secretary explained that while the administration of the National
Gallery could very well be. carried on under the present scheme of
organization, it was desirable that a special advisory committee of
experts be formed to advise him on art matters.

He then called attention to the item in the estimates requesting an
appropriation of $60,000 for adapting the large upper hall of the
Smithsonian building to the purposes of the National Gallery of Art.
He explained that since the March meeting of the board a valuable
collection of paintings, fifty-four in number, had been given to the
National Gallery by Mr. William T. Evans, of Montclair, N. J.; that
within a few days a number of gentlemen in Washington had pur-
chased and presented one of the best paintings of Max Wey], a local
artist of distinction.

It was evident that provision of quarters for the paintings was
pressing. The Corcoran Gallery of Art, which had courteously pro-
vided space for the exhibition of the Evans collection, required the
place so occupied for loan exhibitions, and while the trustees had
expressed their willingness to care for this collection until the Insti-
tution could make provision for it, it was not desirable that this
should be long delayed.

After discussion, the following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution bring to the
attention of the Congress the urgent need for the provision of quarters for the
National Gallery of Art, and earnestly recommend the item of $60,000 submitted by
the secretary in the regular estimates for this purpose.

Resolved further, That the secretary be, and he is hereby, instructed to transmit to
the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and to the chairman

of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a copy of these
resolutions.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 95
SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

Request of the British consul-general at Genoa.—At the meeting of
the board held January 27, 1892, Secretary Langley reported that, at
the suggestion of the authorities of the English cemetery at Genoa, he
had deposited with the bankers, Granet, Brown & Co., the sum of
500 Italian lire ($147), the interest on which was to be used for the
keeping in order of the grave of James Smithson. As was known to
the board, the grounds of the cemetery had been expropriated by the
Italian Government, and the remains of Smithson brought to this
country and deposited in the Smithsonian Institution.

The British consul-general at Genoa had sent a circular letter to
those interested in the British cemetery at Genoa showing that a con-
siderable debt had been incurred in the necessary removal of the
eraves and chapel, and requesting, in view of the fact that the remains
of Smithson lay so long in the cemetery, that the $147 originally
deposited be used in whole or in part in paying off the debt of the
cemetery which, though British, was open to all Americans.

Under date of March 26, the secretary replied that he did not feel
authorized to decide upon the final disposition of the sum named, and
promised to lay the matter before the board at this meeting.

Mr. Dalzell then submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution authorize
that the sum of $147, deposited under the approval of the board with the firm of
Granet, Brown & Co., in August, 1891, by Secretary Langley, ‘‘for the upkeep of
Mr. Smithson’s grave,’’ be applied to the purposes of the British cemetery in accord-
ance with the request of the British consul-general at Genoa.

The Evans collection.—The secretary called the attention of the
board to the gift of the William T. Evans collection of paintings, and
stated that the advance made by the National Gallery of Art since the
last meeting of the board was briefly outlined on pages 31-33 of his
report, and that it would be more fully described in the report of the
assistant secretary in charge of the National Museum.

The secretary added that the only conditions or suggestions made
by Mr. Evans were that he wished to replace any inferior examples
with better ones, and further, that he desired to add to the collection
as opportunity offered, as embodied in the following paragraphs of
his letter of March 12, 1907, announcing the gift:

‘‘T have every reason to believe that you will like my selections,
but should any of the examples not hold up well, others can be substi-
tuted, as it is my desire to have every artist represented at his best.

‘‘As already intimated, I intend that the present gift may not be
considered as final. Additions may be made from time to time as
opportunities occur to secure exceptional works.”
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
be tendered to Mr. William T. Evans, of Montclair, N. J., for the generous gift
of his valuable collection of paintings to the National Gallery of Art; that the
Regents in accepting the gift recognize his public spirit and devotion to the highest
interests of the nation which prompted this splendid donation.

Courtesy of the Corcoran Gallery of Art.—Myr. Evans desired to
make an immediate delivery of his collection, but there was no place
of sufficient size in the Smithsonian or museum building which could
properly accommodate it. In this emergency the Corcoran Gallery
of Art courteously extended the use of its large atrium, pending the
preparation of a suitable gallery here, and the Secretary thought that
the board might wish to formally express its appreciation of this
attention.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
be extended to the trustees of the Corcoran Gallery of Art for their courtesy in pro-
viding temporary exhibition space for the William T. Evans donation to the National
Gallery of Art.

flodgkins fund.—The secretary continued: ‘‘I have given a good
deal of consideration to the use of that portion of the Hodgkins fund
devoted to the increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge of the
atmospheric air in relation to the welfare of man. While much valu-
able work has been done under this fund, it seems to me that it would
be more in consonance with the ideas of the founder if at least a por-
tion of it might be employed in some way to aid in the knowledge of
the prevention of disease and its cure. Iam now in consultation with
Prof. 5S. Homer Woodbridge, of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, sanitary engineer of the new office buildings for the Capitol,
Dr. William H. Welch, of Johns Hopkins University, and Dr. Elmer
Flick, of the Henry Phipps Institute for the Prevention and Cure of
Tuberculosis, at Philadelphia, and hope to be able to initiate some use-
ful investigations along these lines.”

Request of the Department of State that the Smithsonian Institution
take charge of the United States Government exhibit at the Bordeaux
Maritime Exposition.—The secretary stated that the Institution, under
the special authority of Congress, has participated for many years in
all international expositions at which the Government was represented,
but this year for the first time, and in compliance with a request of
the Department of State, it has had complete charge of an exhibit for
the United States. At the last session Congress passed an appropri-
ation of $15,000 to enable this Government to be represented at
Bordeaux. ‘The sum was very small and the time so short that the
task seemed impossible, but the secretary was glad to be able to say
that through the energetic labors of the museum staff, a display was
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 97

installed on July first which not only received high praise from many
quarters, but for which a grand prize was awarded.

Research work.—The secretary called attention to the condition of
the resources of the Institution, and stated that the balance of the
income from the parent fund available July 1, 1908, was too small a
sum to initiate any considerable work.

A number of minor investigations were now being carried on by
the Institution, which had met the approval of scientific men. Modern
research, however, requires a great deal of money, as it must start
from the stage of progress of science at the present. day, and this often
necessitated expensive apparatus, laboratories, and the work of many
hands.

If funds can be obtained to be administered under the Smithsonian
Institution, the scientific work of the Government can be often sup-
plemented by original researches of a character that would hardly be
undertaken by the Government, and which would be of great service
to humanity.

DEATH OF WILLIAM J. RHEES.

Mr. William J. Rhees, for many years chief clerk of the Institu-
tion, and later keeper of the archives, died on March 18, 1907.
Reference to the demise of this faithful official will be found in the
annual report. A clause in his will bequeathed $500 to the Institution.

ANNUAL MEETING OF JANUARY 22, 1908.

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (chancellor) in the chair; Repre-
sentative John Dalzell, Representative James R. Mann, Representa-
tive William M. Howard, Dr. James B. Angell, the Hon. John B.
Henderson, Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, the Hon. George Gray, and
the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The chancellor announced the following reappointments of Regents
under the terms of section 5581 of the Revised Statutes:

By the President of the Senate, on January 14, 1908, Senator Bacon,
of Georgia.

By the Speaker of the House, on December 9, 1907, Representatives
Dalzell, Mann, and Howard.

RESIGNATION OF REGENT.

The chancellor submitted the resignation of the Hon. Richard Olney
as a Regent, and on motion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the secretary of the Institution acknowledge the receipt of the tele-
gram from Mr. Richard Olney, tendering his resignation as a Regent of the Smith-
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

sonian Institution, and express to him the high appreciation of the members of the
board of his services as a Regent, and their regret at the termination of his official
connection with the Institution.

The secretary was instructed to transmit notice of the resignation
to Congress.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Mr. Henderson, as chairman of the executive committee, submitted
the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909,
be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the secretary,
with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on the part of the
secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Mr. Henderson, as chairman, presented the annual report of the
executive committee for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907.
On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

The permanent committee respectfully submits the following report
covering the period since the annual meeting of the Board of Regents
on January 23, 1907:

Hodgkins estate.—As reported to the board by the secretary, at its
meeting on March 6, 1907, the government bonds constituting the
residuum of the estate of the late Thomas George Hodgkins, and held
by the New York Life and Trust Company pending the final decision,
on appeal, of a suit in which the liability of the estate of Mr. Hodg-
kins on a warranty of title by him in the transfer of certain real
property in New York City was in question, were, in accordance with
a resolution by the Board of Regents, sold and the proceeds deposited
to the credit of the permanent Smithsonian Fund in the United States
Treasury. No other transactions occurred during the year with refer-
ence to the funds received by the Institution through the Hodgkins
bequest.

Andrews estate.—The hearing on appeal from the decision of the
supreme court of New York City, in May, 1906, sustaining the bequest
of Mr. Wallace C. Andrews for the establishment of the Andrews
Institute for Girls, at Willoughby, Ohio, took place at Albany, N. Y.,
on January 15, 1908, the Institution being represented by Mr. Frank
W. Hackett and Mr. Edmund Wetmore. It was argued by counsel
for the Institution that the Smithsonian does not wish to receive the
legacy involved, unless in so doing it is carrying out the wishes of Mr.
Andrews in the matter. The sum involved, as has been already stated
to the board, is estimated at more than a million and a half dollars.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 99

Avery estate.—The Institution is still in possession of four parcels
of real estate, to which it received title by the bequest of the late
Robert Stanton Avery. The recent improvements in their vicinity
have greatly enhanced the value of these properties.

Sprague and Reid bequests.—As has been previously reported to the
board, the residual legacies to the Institution under the terms of the
Sprague and Reid bequests are subject to the death of certain enu-
merated legatees, and it is probable that the Institution will not derive
any actual income from these estates for some years to come.

J. B. HENDERSON,
Chairman Permanent Committee,
Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution.
On motion, the report was accepted.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF BRITISH CONSUL-GENERAL AT GENOA.

The secretary brought before the board a letter from the British
consul-general at Genoa, conveying the thanks of the British cemetery
authorities for the action of the board taken at the meeting of Decem-
ber 3, 1907, in placing the sum of $147 at their disposal for the pur-
poses of the cemetery.

SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

Committee on National Gallery of Art.—‘‘In accordance with the
view discussed at the meeting on December 3, 1907, and as the result
of various conferences held in Washington and New York, I have
come to the conclusion that at the outset it is advisable to create an
advisory committee for the National Gallery of Art, composed of five
persons, two of whom shall be nominated by the Institution and the
other three shall be chosen by the National Academy of Design, the
National Sculpture Society, and the Fine Arts Federation, respec-
tively. This last organization is itself a representative body com-
posed of delegates from all of the art societies in New York. Of the
two members named by the Institution, one, I think, should be resi-
dent in Washington and the other should be an appointment at large,
as it were, a man who represents all art interests and is acceptable
to all.

‘‘It is my opinion that this committee should not be a permanent
one; that the members should hold their appointments for a period of
three years, and possibly not be eligible to immediate reappointment,
and that it should be so arranged that, say, no more than two would
leave the committee in any one year.

‘*T am satisfied that as a result of the conferences valuable advice
can be secured from the most eminent persons in this country, and
that this scheme will acceptably bridge over the time until a proper
100 ANNUAL REPORT- SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

staff can be secured and maintained. This plan is not new with the
Institution, as from the beginning the secretary has been advised by
committees, a majority of which were generally persons not connected
with the Institution.

‘*It is also my opinion that if the Institution takes this step now it
will be of importance not simply for the Institution itself, but for the
art interests of the entire nation, and that it will have its influence in
setting a proper standard of judgment and criticism in art matters.”

The new building for the National Museum.—Since the last meet-
ing of the board the outer walls of this building have been entirely
completed, except at the south or main pavilion, where they have
been carried slightly above the level of the second-story floor. The
delay at this place has been mainly caused by the failure of the quarry
to furnish stone as rapidly as required, but it does not interfere with
work elsewhere on the building, which, for some time, has been pro-
gressing rapidly and satisfactorily.

After careful consideration of all that remains to be done, there
seems no reason to doubt that if there are no unforeseen interruptions
the building will be ready for occupancy by January next, as was pre-
dicted some time ago by the superintendent of construction.

Expedition to observe a total eclipse of the sun.—Mr. C. G. Abbot,
the director of the Astrophysical Observatory, was sent on an expe-
dition in conjunction with Professor Campbell, director of Lick Ob-
servatory, to Flint Island in the South Pacific, about 400 miles north
of Tahiti, to observe a total eclipse of the sun occurring January 8,
1908.

It has been impossible for Mr. Abbot to make a full report as yet,
but cablegrams received indicate that he has had a most successful
expedition, the results of which will be communicated to the board
later.

Publicity bureau.—The secretary stated that in accordance with his
suggestion at the meeting on March 6, 1907, the articles published by
the Institution had been put in popular form and sent to a number of
newspapers for the wider dissemination than could be afforded in the
formal reports. Asa result the activities of the Institution had been
brought to public notice to a greater extent than heretofore; and it
was felt that one of the functions of the Institution, the ‘* diffusion”
of knowledge, was being enlarged and satisfactorily complied with.

Meetings of the Board of Regents.—The secretary brought up the
matter of a change inthe dates of the board meetings, and after
explanation and discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall

hold an annual meeting on the Tuesday after the second Monday in December and
another meeting on the second Wednesday in February.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 101

Casa Grande, Arizona.—Dr. J. W. Fewkes, of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, who has had wide experience as an archeologist, spent
last winter in the excavation and restoration of the first group of
remarkable ruins at Casa Grande, Arizona, under the appropriation
made to the Institution for that purpose.

Doctor Fewkes is now at Casa Grande investigating the second group
or ‘‘compound” of these ruins, and his reports indicate that much val-
uable information regarding the aborigines of this section will be
obtained from the investigations now in progress.

Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado.—At the request of the Secre-
tary of the Interior, Doctor Fewkes was directed on October 31, 1907,
upon the completion of the season’s work at Casa Grande, to assume
charge of the excavation, preservation, and repairs of the cliff dwellings
and other prehistoric ruins in the Mesa Verde National Park, which
has recently been set aside by the President as a national park on
account of the important ruins it contains,

In reply to a question the secretary explained the provisions of the
law for the preservation of American antiquities, which was intended
to prevent the destruction and waste of antiquities by unauthor-
ized persons or organizations, and cited several instances of such
depredations.

REGULAR MEETING OF FEBRUARY 12, 1908.

Present, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (chancellor) in the chair; Repre-
sentative James R. Mann, Representative William M. Howard, Dr. A.
Graham Bell, and the Secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

Adjournment.—There being no quorum present, the chancellor
declared the meeting adjourned, previous to which, however, there
was an informal discussion on matters in connection with the Institu-
tion and its branches.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ETC.

[Continued from previous reports. ]

[Sixtieth Congress, first session. ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENT: Fesolved by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy
in the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the class “ other
than Members of Congress” shall be filled by the appointment of Charles F.
Choate, junior, a citizen of Massachusetts. (Approved, February 24, 1908;
Statutes, XX XV, 567.)

SMITHSONIAN GROUNDS: For improvement, care, and maintenance of Smith-
sonian grounds, three thousand dollars. (Approved, May 27, 1908; Statutes,
XXXV, 355.)

PRINTING AND BINDING: For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and
binding the Annual Reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes,
ten thousand dollars; under the Smithsonian Institution, for the Annual Re-
ports of the National Museum, with general appendixes, and for printing
labels and blanks, and for the Bulletins and Proceedings of the National
Museum, the editions of which shall not exceed four thousand copies, and
binding, in half turkey or material not more expensive, scientific books and
pamphlets presented to and acquired by the National Museum Library, thirty-
four thousand dollars; for the Annual Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the
Bureau, twenty-one thousand dollars; for miscellaneous printing and binding
for the International Exchanges, two hundred dollars; the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature, one hundred dollars; the National Zoological
Park, two hundred dollars; the Astrophysical Observatory, one hundred dol-
lars; and for the Annual Report of the American Historical Association, seven
thousand dollars; in all, seventy-two thousand six hundred dollars. (Approved,
May 27, 1908; Statutes, XXXY, 383.)

SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT (LIBRARY OF CONGRESS): For custodian, one thousand
five hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars; messenger,
seven hundred and twenty dollars; messenger boy, three hundred and sixty
dollars; in all, three thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars. (Approved,
May 22, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 194.)

WASHINGTON STATUE: Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the statue of
President Washington, now located in the Capitol grounds east of the Capitol,
be, and the same is hereby, transferred to the custody of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. (Approved, May 22, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 576.)

102
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 103

For the transfer of the marble statue of Washington, by Greenough, from the
plaza in front of the Capitol to the Smithsonian Institution, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and the Superintendent of the
Capitol Building and Grounds, including the construction of a foundation and a
mimarble base, five thousand dollars. (Approved, May 30, 1908; Statutes, XXXV,
492.)

PATENT MODELS: For rent of rooms in the Union Building for Patent Office
model exhibit during so much of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and nine as
may be necessary, and for necessary expenses of removal and storage of said
exhibit, nineteen thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That a commission,
which is hereby created, to consist of the Secretary of the Interior, the Commis-
sioner of Patents, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, shall deter-
mine which of the models of the Patent Office may be of possible benefit to
patentees or of historical value, such models thus selected to be cared for in
the new National Museum building, the remainder of said models shall before
January first, nineteen hundred and nine, be disposed of by sale, gift, or other-
wise as the Commissioner of Patents, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, shall determine. (Approved, May 22, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 229.)

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between the United
States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, and the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, thirty-two thousand dollars. (Ap-
proved, May 27, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 323.)

NAvAL OBSERVATORY: For repairs to buildings, fixtures, and fences, furniture,
gas, chemicals, and stationery, freight (including transmission of public docu-
ments through the Smithsonian exchange), foreign postage, and expressage,
plants, fertilizers, and all contingent expenses, three thousand dollars. (Ap-
proved, May 22, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 221.)

or repairs to buildings, fixtures, and fences; furniture, gas chemicals, and
stationery ; freight (including the transmission of public documents through the
Smithsonian exchange), foreign postage, and expressage; plants, fertilizer, and
all contingent expenses, three hundred dollars. (Approved, May 30, 1908; Stat-
utes, XXXV, 500.)

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians and the
natives of Hawaii under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including
salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase of neces-
sary books and periodicals, forty-two thousand dollars, of which sum not ex-
ceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be used for rent of building.
(Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 323.)

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the purchase of neces-
sary books and periodicals, apparatus, making necessary observations in high
altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses,
thirteen thousand dollars. (Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 324.)

88292—sm 1908——8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

For the cooperation of the United States in the work of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, including the preparation of a classified index
catalogue of American scientific publications for incorporation in the Interna-
tional Catalogue, the expense of clerk hire, the purchase of necessary books
and periodicals, and other necessary incidental expenses, five thousand dollars,
the same to be expended under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.
(Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 8238.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhibition and
safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum, including salaries or
compensation of all necessary employees, fifty thousand dollars.

For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and telephonic service
for the National Museum, twenty-two thousand dollars.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the collections
from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Government, and from
other sources, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees,
and all other necessary expenses, one hundred and ninety thousand dollars, of
which sum five thousand five hundred dollars may be used for necessary draw-
ings and illustrations for publications of the National Museum.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in the
National Museum, two thousand dollars.

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, including all
necessary labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars.

For rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the National
Museum, four thousand five hundred and eighty dollars.

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Museum, five
hundred dollars.

(Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 324.)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water supply, sewer-
age, and drainage; and for grading, planting, and otherwise improving the
grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and inclosures; care, subsistence,
purchase, and transportation of animals; including salaries or compensation
of all necessary employees, and general incidental expenses not otherwise pro-
vided for, including purchase, maintenance, and driving of horses and vehicles
required for official purposes, ninety-five thousand dollars, one half of which
sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other
half from the Treasury of the United States. (Approved May 27, 1908; Stat-
utes, XX XV, 324.)

For defraying the expenses for witness fees, court costs, professional services
of physicians, and other necessary charges incurred in the defense of the suit by
Hannah Jackson against Frank Baker, superintendent of the park, one hundred
and fifteen dollars and seventy cents. (Approved May 30, 1908; Statutes,
XXXV, 492.)

PROTECTION OF ALASKAN GAME.
e * * * ok *

Src. 6. That it shall be unlawful for any persons, firm, or corporation, or
their officers or agents, to deliver to any common carrier, or for the owner, agent,
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 105

or master of any vessel, or for any other person, to receive for shipment or
have in possession with intent to ship out of Alaska, any wild birds, except
eagles, or parts thereof, or any heads, hides, or carcasses of brown bear,
caribou, deer, moose, mountain sheep, or mountain goats, or parts thereof, unless
said heads, hides, or carcasses are accompanied by the required license or coupon
and by a copy of the affidavit required by section five of this act: Provided, That
nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent the collection of specimens for
scientific purposes, the capture or shipment of live animals and birds for exhibi-
tion or propagation, or the export from Alaska of specimens under permit from
the Secretary of Agriculture, and under such restrictions and limitations as he
may prescribe and publish.

“Tt shall be the duty of the collector of customs at Seattle, Portland, and
San Francisco to keep strict account of all consignments of game animals re-
ceived from Alaska, and no consignment of game shall be entered until due
notice thereof has been received from the governor of Alaska or the Secretary of
Agriculture, and found to agree with the name and address on the shipment.
In case consignments arrive without licenses they shall be detained for sixty
days, and if a license be not then produced said consignments shall be forfeited
to the United States and shall be delivered by the collector of customs to the
United States marshal of the district for such disposition as the court may
direct.

* * * * * aS *

(Approved May 11, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 104.)
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.

The National Academy of Sciences is required, at their next meeting, to take
into consideration the methods and expenses of conducting all surveys of a
scientific character, and all chemical, testing, and experimental laboratories and
to report to Congress as soon thereafter as may be practicable a plan for con-
solidating such surveys, chemical, testing, and experimental laboratories so as
to effectually prevent duplication of work and reduce expenditures without
detriment to the public service.

It is the judgment of Congress that any person who holds employment under
the United States or who is employed by and receives a regular salary from any
scientific bureau or institution that is required to report to Congress should
refrain from participation in the deliberations of said National Academy of
Science on this subject and from voting on or joining in any recommendaton
hereunder. (Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 387.)

FIRST PAN-AMERICAN SCIENTIFIC CONGRESS, SANTIAGO, CHILE.

To enable the Government of the United States to be fittingly represented at
the first Pan-American Scientific Congress to be held at Santiago, Chile, during
the year nineteen hundred and eight, thirty-five thousand dollars, to be imme-
diately available and to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of
State. (Approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 380.)

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON TUBERCULOSIS,

To enable the Government of the United States suitably to participate in the
International Congress on Tuberculosis, which will convene at Washington,
September twenty-first to October twelfth, nineteen hundred and eight, twenty-
five thousand dollars. (Approved, May 21, 1908; Statutes XXXV, 179.)
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Whereas an International Congress on Tuberculosis will meet in Washington
in September, nineteen hundred and eight, the same being the Sixth Interna-
tional Congress on Tuberculosis, and the first to be held in America; and

Whereas seven of the nine departments of the Federal Government have
petitioned Congress for the authority and means to participate in this Con-
gress; and

Whereas the governors of twenty-eight States of the United States have
authorized the participation of their several States in this Congress; and

Whereas the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuber-
culosis has provided the necessary means and created a special committee to
secure the participation of voluntary and private interests in the coming Inter-
national Congress on Tuberculosis; and

Whereas preceding International Congresses occurring in other countries in
the past fifteen years have been held under governmental auspices, and dele-
gates from the United States have participated therein as guests of foreign
governments: Therefore be it

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That the Department of State be, and is hereby,
authorized to invite the governments of other countries, through their min-
isters, to send representatives to the International Congress on Tuberculosis,
to be held in Washington, September twenty-first to October twelfth, nineteen
hundred and eight. (Approved, March 6, 1908; Statutes, XXXYV, 568.)

That the President be, and he is hereby, empowered and requested to direct
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and the Secretary of Agriculture
to place at the disposition of the International Tuberculosis Congress, under
such terms and conditions as the President may authorize or prescribe, such
space, not now occupied, in the new National Museum and Agricultural build-
ings, respectively, as may be needed to properly provide for the meeting of
such International Tuberculosis Congress, including exhibits, to be held in
September and October of the present year, and the use of said buildings for
such purposes is hereby authorized; and permanent occupancy of such build-
ings, respectively, shall be postponed in so far as may be necessary to carry
out the foregoing provisions; and the sum of forty thousand dollars, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, to be expended in accordance with the
directions of the President for the payment of expenses in connection with the
suitable temporary preparation of said buildings for such purposes, is hereby
appropriated. (Apvroved, May 30, 1908; Statutes XXXV, 479.)

EXPOSITION AT QUITO, ECUADOR.

For the participation by the United States in an exposition to be held at
Quito, Ecuador, during the year nineteen hundred and nine, the sending of a
commissioner to the same, a Government exhibit, the necessary expenses of
transportation, and the erection of a building at the exposition, fifty thousand
dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be expended under the
direction of the Secretary of State. (Approved, May 27, 1908; Statutes
XXXV, 380.)

ALASKAN-YUKON-PACIFIC EXPOSITION, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON.

* + * * * * *
Sec. 11. That there shall be exhibited at said exposition by the Government
of the United States from the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum
such articles and material of an historical nature as will impart a knowledge
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 107

of our national history, especially that of Alaska, Hawaii, and the Philippine
Islands and that part of the United States west of the Rocky Mountains.
There shall be exhibited from the executive departments of the United States
such exhibits as will illustrate their principal administrative functions and their
educational value in connection with the development of commerce in the
countries bordering upon the Pacific Ocean; the preservation of forests; the
reclamation and irrigation of arid and semiarid lands; the improving and
enlarging of transportation facilities and the safeguards of navigation; and the
economic value of the investigations and operations of the Government with
reference to public health, geology, experiment stations, coast and geodetic
survey, and public roads. ‘To secure a complete and harmonious arrangement
of such government exhibit a United States Government board of managers is
hereby authorized to be appointed to be charged with the selection, purchase,
preparation, transportation, arrangement, safe-keeping, exhibition and return
of such articles and materials as the heads of the several departments, the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Superintendent of the National
Museum, respectively, decide shall be embraced in the government exhibit
herein authorized. The President of the United States may also designate
additional articles of peculiar interest for exhibition in connection with the
said government exhibit. Said government board of managers shall be com:
posed of three persons now in the employ of the Government, and shall be
appointed by the President, one of whom shall be designated by the President
as chairman of the said board and one as secretary and disbursing officer. The
members of said government board, with other officers and employees of the
Government who may be detailed to assist them, including officers of the army
and navy, shall receive no compensation in addition to their regular salaries,
but they shall be allowed their actual and necessary traveling expenses, together
with a per diem in lieu of subsistence, to be fixed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, while necessarily absent from their homes engaged upon the business
of the board. Officers of the army and navy shall receive said allowance in
lieu of the subsistence and mileage now allowed by law; and the Secretary of
War and the Secretary of the Navy may, in their discretion, detail retired
army and navy officers for such duty. Any provision of law which may pro-
hibit the detail of persons in the employ of the United States to other service
than that which they customarily perform shall not apply to persons detailed
for duty in connection with said Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition. Employees
of the board not otherwise employed by the Government shall be entitled to
such compensation as the board may determine, and such employees may be
selected and appointed by said board. The disbursing officer shall give bond
in such sum as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine for the faithful
performance of his duties, said bond to be approved by said Secretary. The
Secretary of the Treasury shall advance to said officer from time to time, under
such regulations as he may prescribe, a sum of money from the appropriation
for the government exhibit herein authorized, not exceeding at any one time
three-fourths of the penalty of his bond, to enable him to pay the expenses of
said exhibit as authorized by the United States Government board herein
created. The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to
place on exhibition, in connection with the exhibit of his department, upon such
grounds as shall be allotted for this purpose, one of the life-saving stations
authorized to be constructed on the Pacific Coast of the United States by
existing law, and to cause the same to be fully equipped with all apparatus,
furniture, and appliances now in use in life-saving stations in the United
States. The Secretary of Commerce and Labor is hereby authorized and
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

directed to place on exhibition, in connection with the exhibit of his department,
in such building or aquarium as shall be allotted for this purpose, a complete
exhibit of the fish and fisheries of the United States, paying special attention
to the fish and fisheries of the Pacific Ocean, with a view to demonstrating, in
the fullest manner possible, the economic value of such fish and fisheries:
Provided, That the cost of said exhibit herein authorized, including the selec-
tion, purchase, preparation, transportation, arrangement, safe-keeping, exhibi-
tion, and return of the articles and materials so exhibited, shall not exceed the
sum of two hundred thousand dollars, which sum, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, is hereby appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not other-
wise appropriated.
* ¥ * %* * * &
Sec. 14. That the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause suitable buildings to
be erected on the site of said Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition for said govern-
ment exhibit, including an irrigation and biograph building; also a fisheries
building complete, with mechanical apparatus; also buildings for the exhibits of
the district of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, and the Philippine Islands; also
buildings for such other purposes in connection with the exhibits herein author-
ized as in the judgment of the Secretary of the Treasury may be necessary.
Said buildings shall be erected from plans prepared by the Supervising Archi-
tect of the Treasury, to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to contract for
said buildings in the same manner and under the same regulations as for other
public buildings of the United States, but the contract for said buildings, in-
cluding the preparation of ground therefor and the approaches thereto, and the
interior and exterior decorative wiring and lighting thereof shail not exceed
the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, which sum, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated. The Secretary of the Treasury is author-
ized and required to dispose of said buildings, or the materials composing the
same, at the close of the exposition, giving preference to the State of Washing-
ton or to the Alaska-Yukon-Pacifie Exposition corporation or to the city of
Seattle to purchase the same at an appraised value to be ascertained in such
manner as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine.
% * * * * * #
Src. 17. That the United States shall not be liable on account of said exposi-
tion for any expenses incident to or growing out of the same, except for the con-
struction of the building or buildings hereinbefore authorized and for the pur-
pose of paying the expense incident to the selection, preparation, purchase,
installation, transportation, care, custody, and safe return of the exhibits made
by the Government and for the employment of proper persons as officers and
assistants by the government board created by this act, and for other expenses,
and for the maintenance of said building or buildings and other contingent
expenses to be approved by the chairman of the government board, or, in the
event of his absence or disability, by such officer as the board may designate,
and the Secretary of the Treasury, upon itemized accounts and vouchers.
* % * % * * *
Sec. 19. That nothing in this act shall be construed so as to create any lia-
bility upon the part of the United Statés, directly or indirectly, for any debt or
obligation incurred or for any claim for aid or pecuniary assistance from Con-
gress or the Treasury of the United States in support or liquidation of any debts
or obligations created by said United States Government board’ in excess of
appropriations herein made.
(Sundry civil act, approved May 27, 1908; Statutes, XX XV, 388-391.)
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 109

GREAT NATIONAL EXPOSITION, TOKYO, JAPAN.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and he is hereby,
authorized to accept the invitation extended by the Imperiai Japanese Govern-
ment to the Government of the United States to participate in the Great Na-
tional Exposition to be held in Tokyo, Japan, from April first to October thirty-
first, nineteen hundred and twelve. In accepting said invitation it is hereby
declared to be the purpose of the Government of the United States to partici-
pate in said Japanese National Exposition by erecting suitable buildings and
making an appropriate exhibit of arts, industries, manufactures, and products
of the soil and mines and as far as practicable of the functions of the General
Government of the United States and an exhibit of such other articles as the
President of the United States may direct: Provided, That such participation,
buildings, exhibits, and all expenses connected therewith, including salaries,
clerical, and other services and transportation of persons and exhibits shall
not exceed one million five hundred thousand dollars. -

Sec. 2. That the President be, and he is hereby, authorized, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint three commissioners-general who
shall, under the direction of the Secretary of State, take such steps as are
necessary to ascertain the general plan and scope of the said National Exposi-
tion, the character, size, and cost of the buildings to be erected by the United
States, and the extent and character of the exhibit authorized hereunder that
would best serve the interests of the United States and its citizens, and would be
best adapted to illustrate the growth and development of the country and the
character of our people. That thereafter, and as soon as practicable, said com-
missioners shall report fully to the President and to Congress the result of
such investigation, together with their recommendations and the estimated cost
of said participation in said exposition, within the foregoing authorization; and
it shall also be the duty of the commissioners-general to report to the Presi-
dent for transmission to Congress at the beginning of each regular session a
detailed statement of all expenditures incurred hereunder. That one of said
commissioners-general shall receive as compensation for his services the sum of
eight thousand dollars per annum; that the other two commissioners-general
shall receive as compensation for their services from and after January first,
nineteen hundred and nine, two thousand dollars per annum for the first year
and five thousand dollars per annum thereafter, together with the actual tray-
eling expenses of all of said commissioners-general, including sleeping-car
service and a per diem in lieu of subsistence of five dollars when actually
traveling in the discharge of their duties as said commissioners-general. That
the President shall also appoint a secretary at a compensation of five thousand
dollars per annum, together with his actual traveling expenses, including
sleeping-car service and a per diem in lieu of subsistence of five dollars when
actually traveling in the discharge of his duties as such secretary, who shall
act as disbursing agent and who shall perform such duties as may be assigned
to him from time to time by the commissioners-general, and who shall render
his accounts at least quarterly to the proper accounting officers of the Treasury
of the United States, and shall give bond in such sum as the Secretary of the
Treasury may require. And the said commissioners-general, subject to the
approval of the Secretary of State, shall appoint from time to time such clerical
and other assistants as may be necessary and as may hereafter be appropriated
for in connection with the preparation of the plan and other necessary services
as may be required in connection with the participation herein authorized.
110 ANNUAL REPORT-SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Sec. 3. That upon the request of the Secretary of State the Secretary of War
is hereby authorized to furnish free transportation on government transports
from San Francisco to Japan and return of all government exhibits and for
such officials or employees connected with the commission or in charge of any
or all government exhibits.

Src. 4. That the sum of fifty thousand dollars is hereby appropriated, out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of pay-
ing the salaries and all other expenses herein authorized and incurred in ascer-
taining the general plan of said National Exposition and the preparation and
report to Congress of the plan and extent of our proposed participation therein
and the estimate of the amount necessary to meet the expense thereof during
the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, to be immediately available.

(Approved, May 22, 1908; Statutes, XXXYV, 188.)

STATEMENT OF TRAVEL ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS.

Sec. 4. It shall be the duty of the head of each executive department and
other government establishment at Washington to submit to Congress at the be-
ginning of each regular session a statement showing in detail what officers or
employees (other than special agents, inspectors, or employees, who in the dis-
charge of their regular duties are required to constantly travel) of such execu-
tive department or other government establishment have traveled on official
business from Washington to points outside of the District of Columbia during
the preceding fiscal year, giving in each case the full title of the official or em-
ployee, the destination or destinations of such travel, the business or work on
account of which the Same was made, and the total expense to the United States
charged in each case. (Approved, May 22, 1908; Statutes XXXV, 244.)

AMENDING ACT RELATING TO PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING,

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That publications ordered printed by Congress,
or either House thereof, shall be in four series, namely: One series of reports
made by the committees of the Senate, to be known as Senate reports; one
series of reports made by the committees of the House of Representatives, to
be known as House reports; one series of documents other than reports of com-
mittees, the orders for printing which originate in the Senate, to be known as
Senate documents, and one series of documents other than committee reports,
the orders for printing which originate in the House of Representatives, to be
known as House documents. The publications in each series shall be con-
secutively numbered, the numbers in each series continuing in unbroken
sequence throughout the entire term of a Congress, but the foregoing provisions
shall not apply to the documents printed for the use of the Senate in executive
session: Provided, That of the “ usual number,” the copies which are intended
for distribution to state and territorial libraries and other designated deposi-
tories of all annual or serial publications originating in or prepared by an
executive department, bureau, office, commission, or board shall not be num-
bered in the document or report series of either House of Congress, but shall
be designated by title and bound as hereinafter provided, and the departmental
edition, if any, shall be printed concurrently with the ‘‘usual number:” And
provided further, That hearings of committees may be printed as congressional
documents only when specifically ordered by Congress or either House thereof.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. bt

Sec. 2. That in the binding of congressional documents and reports for
distribution by the superintendent of documents to state and territorial libra-
ries and other designated depositories, every publication of sufficient size on
any one subject shall hereafter be bound separately and receive the title sug-
gested by the subject of the volume, and the others shall be distributed in
unbound form as soon as printed. The Public Printer shall supply the super-
intendent of documents sufficient copies of those publications distributed in
unbound form, to be bound and distributed to the state and territorial libraries
and other designated depositories for their permanent files. The library edition,
as well as all other bound sets of congressional numbered documents and
reports, shall be arranged in volumes and bound in the manner directed by
the Joint Committee on Printing.

Sec. 5. That section two of an act to amend an act providing for the public
printing and binding, and so forth, approved March first, nineteen hundred
and seven, is hereby repealed.

(Approved January 15, 1908; Statutes, XXXV, 566,)
GENERAL APPENDIX

RO MEEEy

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1908

113
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Genera Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for thirty years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1908.

115
i ie
MiVdienezaaie
a

THE PRESENT STATUS OF MILITARY AERONAUTICS.
[With 23 plates.]

By Dr. Grorce O. Squier,?
Major, Signal Corps, U. S. Army.

It is a matter of first significance that The American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, composed of a body of highly trained and
serious-minded men, should be considering in annual meeting assem-
bled the subject of aerial navigation. Five years ago such a subject
could scarcely have had a place on the list of professional papers
on your programme. The present period will ever be memorable in
the history of the world for the first public demonstrations of the
practicability of mechanical flight. In fact, at the present moment
a resistless wave of enthusiasm and endeavor, sweeping away every
prejudice, is passing over the entire civilized world, fixing the atten-
tion of all classes upon the problem of flight. France, Germany,
and England are in a state of frenzied interest in this subject, and
each period of a single month sees some new step accomplished in the
march of progress. The universal highway is at last to be made
available for the uses of mankind, with its consequent influence upon
our modes of hfe and thought. * * *

There are two general classes of vehicles of the air, (a) those which
depend for their support upon the buoyancy of some gas lighter than
- air, and (6) those which depend for such support upon the dynamic
reaction of the air itself. These classes are designated—

(a) Lighter-than-air types: Free balloons, dirigible balloons or
airships.

(6) Heavier-than-air types: Aeroplanes, orthopters, helicopters, etc.

It should be remarked, however, that these two general classes
exhibit a growing tendency to overlap each other. For example, the
latest dirigible balloons are partly operated by means of aeroplane

“Reprinted by permission (abridged by author) from the Journal of The
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, New York, 1909, pp. 1571-1612.
> Presented at the New York meeting (December, 1908) of The American
Society of Mechanical Engineers.
117
118 ANNUAL REPORE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

surfaces, and are also often balanced so as to be slightly heavier than
the air in which they move, employing the propeller thrust and rudder
surfaces to control the altitude.

I. ABROSTATION.

Captive and free balloons, with the necessary apparatus and devices
for operating the same, have been for many years considered an essen-
tial part of the military establishment of every first-class power.
They played a conspicuous part in the siege of Paris, and were often
valuable in our own civil war. The construction and operation of
aerostats are too well understood to need further attention here.

SUCCESSFUL MILITARY DIRIGIBLE BALLOONS.
France.

Two types of dirigible balloons have been used in the French army—
first, the Patrie, and, second, the Ville de Paris.

The Patrie was developed by Jullot, an engineer employed by the
Lebaudy Brothers at their sugar refinery in Paris. A history of his
work beginning in 1896 is fully given in La Conquéte de l’Air.

THE PATRIE.

The Patrie, the third of its type, was first operated in 1906. The
gas bag of the first balloon was built by Surcouf at Billancourt, Paris.
The mechanical part was built at the Lebaudy sugar refinery. Since
then the gas bags have been built at the Lebaudy balloon shed at
Moisson, near Paris, under the direction of their aeronaut, Juchmés.
The gas bag of the Patrie was 197 feet long, with a maximum diameter
of 33 feet 9 inches, situated about two-fifths of the length from the
front; volume, 111,250 cubic feet; length, approximately six diameters.
This relation, together with the cigar shape, is in accordance with the
plans of Colonel Renard’s dirigible, built and operated in France in
1884; the same general shape and proportions being found in the
Ville de Paris.

The first Lebaudy was pointed at the rear, which is generally
admitted to be the proper shape for the least resistance, but to main-
tain stability it was found necessary to put a horizontal and vertical
plane there, so that it had to be made an ellipsoid of revolution to give
attachment for these planes.

The ballonet for air had a capacity of 22,958 cubic feet, or about
one-fifth of the total volume. This is calculated to permit reaching
a height of about 1 mile and to be able to return to the earth, keep-
ing the gas bag always rigid. To descend from a height of 1 mile
gas would be released by the valve, then air pumped into the ballonet
to keep the gas bag rigid, these two operations being carried on alter-
«AINLVd,, STGIDINIG HONSY4

“| 3LV1d yainbS>—'gQ6| ‘Hoday ueiuosyziWws
‘YVO JO SIIVLEG «!aluLvd,, aTgIDIYIG HONaY4

Oe SHIN)

ainbgS—'gQ6| ‘HWodey uriuosyyiws
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUITER. 119

nately. On reaching the ground from the height of 1 mile the air
would be at the middle of the lower part of the gas bag and would
not entirely fill the ballonet. To prevent the air from rolling from
one end to the other when the airship pitches, thus producing insta-
bility, the ballonet was divided into three compartments by imper-
meable cloth partitions. Numerous small holes were pierced in these
partitions through which the air finally reached the two end com-
partments.

In September, 1907, the Patrie was enlarged by 17,660 cubic feet
by the addition of a cylindrical section at the maximum diameter, in-
creasing the length but not the maximum diameter.

The gas bag is cut in panels; the material is a rubber cloth made
by the Continental Tire Company at Hanover, Germany. It consists
of four layers, arranged as follows:

Weight, ounces,
per square yard.

Outer layer of cotton cloth covered with lead chromate______ 2.5
ayersOr vulcanized) rubber sss a sts Seles Si a Pere 2.5
Mayveruols COLLOMEClOGNE Soa =ee ere a pre eee ee es 2.5
Innerplayersotavuleani zed) mubberess = so 2 es ee 2
Aislenewetatife) otc 's hike aks epic) ide Lh tai gt 9.71

A strip of this cloth 1 foot wide tears at a tension of about 934
pounds. A pressure of about one inch of water can be maintained in
the gas bag without danger. The lead chromate on the outside is to
prevent the entrance of the actinic rays of the sun, which would cause
the rubber to deteriorate. The heavy layer of rubber is to prevent the
leaking of the gas. The inner layer of rubber is merely to prevent
deterioration of the cloth by impurities in the gas. This material has
the warp of the two layers of cotton cloth running in the same direc-
tion and is called straight thread. The material in the ballonet
weighs only about 7} ounces per square yard, and has a strength of
about 336 pounds per running foot. When the Patrie was enlarged,
in September, 1907, the specifications for the material allowed a maxi-
mum weight of 10 ounces per square yard, a minimum strength of
907 pounds per running foot, and a loss of 5.1 cubic inches of hydro-
gen per square yard in twenty-four hours at a pressure of 1.18 inches
of water. Bands of cloth are pasted over the seams inside and out
with a solution of rubber to prevent leaking through the stitches.

Suspension.—One of the characteristics of the Patrie is the “ short ”
suspension. The weight of the car is distributed over only about 70
feet of the length of the gas bag. To do this, an elliptical shaped
frame of nickel steel tubes is attached to the bottom of the gas bag;
steel cables run from this down to the car. A small hemp net is
attached to the gas bag by means of short wooden cross pieces or
toggles, which are let into holes in a strong canvas band which is

88292—sM 1908——9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

sewed directly on the gas bag. The metal frame, or platform, is
attached to this net by means of toggles, so that it can be quickly
removed in dismounting the airship for transportation. The frame
can also be taken apart. Twenty-eight steel cables about 0.2 inch
in diameter run from the frame down to the car, and are arranged in
triangles. Due to the impossibility of deforming a triangle, rigidity
is maintained between the car and gas bag.

The objection to the “short ” suspension of the Patrie is the defor-
mation of the gas bag. A distinct curve can be seen in the middle.

Car—tThe car is made of nickel steel tubes (12 per cent nickel).
This metal gives the greatest strength for minimum weight. The
car is boat-shaped, about 16 feet long, about 5 feet wide, and 24 feet
high. About 11 feet separate the car from the gas bag. To prevent
any chance of the fire from the engine communicating with the hydro-
gen, the steel framework under the gas bag is covered with a non-
combustible material.

The pilot stands at the front of the car, the engine is in the middle,
the engineer at the rear. Provision is made for mounting a telepho-
tographic apparatus, and for a 100-candlepower acetylene searchlight.
A strong pyramidal structure of steel is built under the car, pointing
downward. In landing, the point comes to the ground first and this
protects the car, and especially the propellers, from being damaged.
The car is covered to reduce air resistance. It is so low, however,
that part of the equipment and most of the bodies of those inside are
exposed, so that the total resistance of the car is large.

Motor—tThe first Lebaudy had a 40 horsepower Daimler-Mercedes
benzine motor. The Patrie was driven by a 60 to 70 horsepower,
4-cylinder Panhard and Levassor benzine motor, making 1,000 revo-
lutions per minute.

Propellers.—There are two steel propellers 8} feet in diameter
(two blades each) placed at each side of the engine, thus giving the
shortest and most economical transmission. To avoid any tendency
to twist the car, the propellers turn in opposite directions. They are
“high speed,” making 1,000 to 1,200 revolutions per minute.

The gasoline tank is placed under the car inside. the pyramidal
frame. The gasoline is forced up to the motor by air compression.
The exhaust is under the rear of the car, pointing down, and is covered
with a metal gauze to prevent flames coming out. The fan which
drives the air into the ballonet is run by the motor, but a dynamo is
also provided so that the fan can always be kept running even if the
motor stops. This is very essential, as the pressure must be main-
tained inside the gas bag so that the latter will remain rigid and keep
its form. There are five valves in all, part automatic and part both
automatic and also controlled from the car with cords. The valves in
the ballonet open automatically at less pressure than the gas valves,

MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 121

so that when the gas expands all the air is driven out of the ballonet
before there is any loss of gas. The ballonet valves open at a pres-
sure of about 0.78 inch of water, the gas valves at about 2 inches.

Stability.—Vertical stability is maintained by means of fixed
horizontal planes. One having a surface of 150 square feet is attached
at the rear of the gas bag, and due to its distance from the center of
gravity is very efficient. The elliptical frame attached under the gas
bag has an area of 1,055 square feet, but due to its proximity to the
center of gravity has little effect on the stability. Just behind the
elliptical frame is an arrangement sinfilar to the feathering on an
arrow. It consists of a horizontal plane of 150 square feet and a
vertical plane of 113 square feet. To maintain horizontal stability,
that is, to enable the airship to move forward in a straight line with-
out veering to the sides, fixed vertical planes are used. One runs from
the center to the rear of the elliptical frame and has an area of 108
square feet.

In addition to the vertical surface of 113 square feet at the rear of
the elliptical frame, there is a fixed plane of 150 square feet at the
rear of the gas bag. To fasten the two perpendicular planes at the
rear of the gas bag, cloth flaps are sewed directly on the gas bag.
Nickel-steel tubes are placed in the flaps which are then laced over
the tubes. With these tubes as a base a hght tube and wire frame-
work is attached and waterproof cloth laced on this framework.
Additional braces run from one surface to the other and from each
surface to the gas bag. The rudder is at the rear under the gas bag.
It has about 150 square feet and is balanced.

A movable horizontal plane near the center of gravity, above the
car, is used to produce rising or descending motion, or to prevent an
involuntary rising or falling of the airship due to expansion or con-
traction of the gas or to other causes. After the adoption of this
movable horizontal plane the loss of gas and ballast was reduced to a
minimum. Ballast is carried in 10 and 20 pound sand bags. <A pipe
runs through the bottom of the car from which the ballast is thrown.

There are two long guide ropes, one attached at the front of the
elliptical frame and the other on the car. On landing, the one in
front is seized first, so as to hold the airship with the head to the wind.
The motor may then be stopped and the descent made by pulling
down on both guide ropes. A heavy rope, 22 feet long, weighing 110
pounds, is attached on the end of a 164-foot guide rope. This can be
dropped out on landing to prevent coming to the ground too rapidly.
The equipment of the car includes a “ siren,” speaking trumpet, car-
rier pigeons, iron pins and a rope for anchoring the airship, reserve
supply of fuel and water, and fire extinguisher.

After being enlarged in September, 1907, the Patrie made a num-
ber of long trips at an altitude of 2,500 to 3,000 feet. In November,
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

1907, she went from Paris to Verdun, near the German frontier, a
distance of about 175 miles, in about seven hours, carrying four per-
sons. This trip was made in a light wind blowing from the north-
east. Her course was east, so that the wind was unfavorable. On
Friday, November 29, 1907, during a flight near Verdun, the motor
stopped due to difficulty with the carburetor. The airship drifted
with the wind to a village about 10 miles away, where she was safely
landed. The carburetor was repaired on the 30th. Soon after, a
strong wind came up and tore loose some of the iron pickets with
which it was anchored. This allowed the air ship to swing broadside
to the wind; it then tilted over on the side far enough to let some of
the ballast bags fall out. The 150 or 200 soldiers who were holding
the ropes were pulled along the ground until directed by the officer
in charge to let go. After being released, it rose and was carried by
the wind across the north of France, the English Channel, and into
the north of Ireland. It struck the earth there, breaking off one of
the propellers and then drifted out to sea.

THE REPUBLIQUE.

This is the latest of the French military dirigible balloons, and
differs but shghtly from its predecessor, the Patrie. The volume has
been increased by about 2,000 cubic feet. The length has been re-
duced to 200 feet and the maximum diameter increased to 354 feet.
The shape of the gas bag accounts for the 2,000 additional cubic feet
of volume. The motor and propellers are as in the Patrie. The
total lifting capacity is 9,000 pounds, of which 2,700 pounds are
available for passengers, fuel, ballast, instruments, etc. Its best per-
formance was a 125-mile flight made in six and one-half hours against
an unfavorable wind.

The material for the gas bag of the new airship was furnished
by the Continental Tire Company. It is made up as follows:

Weight, ounces
per square yard.

Outer yellow" cotton layers eS Se ee es eee 3. 25
Mayer lot ViulGaniZedrr Wl Cres es ee eee ee 3. 25
AaverrO£ COLTON ClO this 2 Sse eS ee ee ee 3. 2D
IMM ersayver OL MU DOT eee ea ee Ee ee ee ee AAS

Total werent < 226-5 - 9. 2 = ee i ee ares Ceres 10. 48

It is interesting to note the changes which this type has under-
gone since the first one was built. The Jaune, constructed in 1902-3,
was pointed at the rear and had no stability plane there; later it was
rounded off at the rear and a fixed horizontal plane attached.
Finally a fixed vertical plane was added. The gas bag has been
increased in capacity from 80,670 cubie feet to about 131,000 cubic
feet. The manufacturers have been able to increase the strength of
«ANOMGNdSY ,, AIININIG HONSY4

to BUE/ala| srainbg>—'gQ6| ‘Vodey ueiuosyyiWS
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 4.

Fic. 1.—FRENCH DIRIGIBLE “LA VILLE DE Paris.”

Fic. 2.—GERMAN DIRIGIBLE “ZEPPELIN,’? WITH FLOATING HANGAR.
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 123

the material of which the gas bag is made without materially in-
creasing the weight. The rudder has been altered somewhat in form.
It was first pivoted on its front edge, but later on a vertical axis,
somewhat to the rear of this edge. With the increase in size has
come an increase in carrying capacity, and consequently a greater
speed and more widely extended field of action.

VILLE DE PARIS.

This airship was constructed for Mr. Deutsch de la Meurthe, of
Paris, who has done a great deal to encourage aeria! navigation. The
first Ville de Paris was built in 1902, on plans drawn by Tatin, a
French aeronautical engineer. It was not a success. Its successor
was built in 1906, on plans of Surcouf, an aeronautical engineer
and balloon builder. The gas bag was built at his works in Billan-
court, the mechanical part at the Voisin shop, also in Billancourt.
The plans are based on those of Colonel Renard’s airship, the France,
built in 1884, and the Ville de Paris resembles the older airship in
many particulars. In September, 1907, Mr. Deutsch offered the use
of his airship to the French Government. The offer was accepted,
but delivery was not to be made except in case of war or emergency.
When the Patrie was lost in November, 1907, the military authorities
immediately took over the Deutsch airship.

Gas bag—The gas bag is 200 feet long for a maximum diameter
of 344 feet, giving a length of about 6 diameters, as in the France
and the Patrie; volume, 112,847 cubic feet; maximum diameter at
about three-eighths of the distance from the front, approximately,
as in the Patrie. The middle section is cylindrical, with conical
sections in front and rear. At the extreme rear is a cylindrical sec-
tion with eight smaller cylinders attached to it. The ballonet has
a volume of 21,192 cubic feet, or about one-fifth of the whole volume,
the same proportion found in the Patrie. The ballonet is divided
into three compartments from front to rear. The division walls
are of permeable cloth, and are not fastened to the bottom, so that
~when the middle compartment fills with air and the ballonet rises
the division walls are lifted up from the bottom of the gas bag
and there is free communication between the three compartments.
The gas bag is made up of a series of strips perpendicular to a
meridian line. These strips run around the bag, their ends meeting
on the under meridian. This is known as the “ brachistode ” method
of cutting out the material, and has the advantage of bringing the
seams parallel to the line of greatest tension. They are, therefore,
more likely to remain tight and not allow the escape of gas. The
disadvantage lies in the fact that there is a loss of 334 per cent of
material in cutting. The material was furnished by the Continental
Tire Company, and has approximately the same tensile strength and
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

weight as that used in the Patrie. It differs from the other in one
important feature—it 1s diagonal-thread; that is, the warp of the
outer layer of cotton cloth makes an angle of 45° with the warp of
the inner layer of cotton cloth. The result is to localize a rip or
tear iy the material. A tear in the straight-thread material will
continue along the warp, or the weave, until it reaches a seam.

Valves.—There are five in all, made of steel, about 14 inches in
diameter—one on the top connected to the car by a cord operated
by hand only; two near the rear underneath. These are automatic
but can be operated by hand from the car. Two ballonet valves
directly under the middle are automatic and are also operated from
the car by hand. The ballonet valves open automatically at a pres-
sure of two-thirds of an inch of water; the gas valves open at a higher
pressure.

Suspension.—This airship has the “long” suspension; that is,
the weight is distributed along practically the entire length of the
gas bag. A doubled band of heavy canvas is sewn with six rows of
stitches along the side of the gas bag. Hemp ropes running into
steel cables transmit most of the weight of the car to these two canvas
bands and thus to the gas bag. On both sides and below these first
bands are two more. Lines run from these to points half way be-
tween the gas bag and the car, then radiate from these points to dif-
ferent points of attachment on the car. This gives the triangular or
nondeformable system of suspension, which is necessary in order to
have the car and gas bag rigidly attached to each other. With this
“long ” suspension, the Ville de Paris does not have the deformation
so noticeable in the gas bag of the Patrie.

Car.—This is in the form of a trestle. It is built of wood, with
aluminum joints and 0.12-inch wire tension members. It is 115
feet long, nearly 7 feet high at the middle, and a little over 53 feet
wide at the middle. It weighs 660 pounds and is considered un-
necessarily large and heavy. The engine and engineer are well to
the front; the aeronaut with steering wheels is about at the center

¥)

of gravity.

Motor.—The motor is a 70 to 75 horsepower “ Argus,” and is excep-
tionally heavy. | .

Propeller—The propeller is placed at the front end of the car.
It thus has the advantage of working in undisturbed air; the disad-
vantage is the long transmission and difficulty in attaching the pro-
peller rigidly. It has two blades and is 19.68 feet long with a pitch
of 26.24 feet. The blades are of cedar with a steel arm. The pro-
peller makes a maximum of 250 turns per minute when the engine is
making 900 revolutions. Its great diameter and width compensate
for its small speed.
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 125

Stability —This is maintained entirely by the cylinders at the rear.
Counting the larger one to which the smaller ones are attached,
there are five, arranged side by side corresponding to the horizontal
planes of the Patrie, and five vertical ones corresponding to the
Patrie’s vertical planes. The volume of the small cylinders is so
calculated that the gas in them is just sufficient to lift their weight,
so they neither increase or decrease the ascensional force of the whole.
The horizontal projection of these cylinders is 1,076 square feet. The
center of this projection is 72 feet from the center of gravity of the
gas. The great objection to this method of obtaining stability is
the air resistance due to these cylinders, and consequent loss of speed.
The stability of the Ville de Paris in a vertical plane is said to be
superior to that of the Patrie, due to the fact that the stability planes
of the latter do not always remain rigid. The independent velocity
of the Ville de Paris probably never exceeded 25 miles an hour.

Rudder.—The rudder has a double surface of 150 square feet
placed at the rear end of the car, 72 feet from the center of gravity.
It is not balanced, but is inclined slightly to the rear so that its
weight would make it point directly to the rear if the steering gear
should break. Two pairs of movable horizontal planes, one at the
rear of the car having 43 square feet, and one at the center of gravity
(as on the Patrie) having 86 square feet, serve to drive the airship
up or down without losing gas or ballast.

Guide ropes.—A 400-foot guide rope is attached at the front end
of the car. A 230-foot guide rope is attached to the car at the center
of gravity.

About thirty men are required to maneuver the Ville de Paris on
the ground. The pilot has three steering wheels, one for the rudder
and two for the movable horizontal planes. The instruments used
are an aneroid barometer, a registering barometer giving heights up
to 1,600 feet, and an ordinary dynamometer which can be connected
either with the gas bag or ballonet by turning a valve. A double
column of water is also connected to the tube to act as a check on
the dynamometer. Due to the vibration: of the car caused by the
motor, these instruments are suspended -by rubber attachments.
Even with this arrangement it is necessary to steady the aneroid
barometer with the hand in order to read it. The vibration prevents
the use of the statoscope.

England.
Miuitary Drricistre No. 1.

The gas bag of this airship was built about five years ago by
Colonel Templar, formerly in command of the aeronautical establish-
ment at Aldershot. His successor, Colonel Capper, built the me-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

chanical part during the spring and summer of 1907, with the assist-
ance of Mr. S. F. Cody, a mechanical engineer. It was operated
by Colonel Capper as pilot, with Mr. Cody in charge of the engine.
Several ascents were made at Aldershot. In October, 1907, they
made a trip from Aldershot to London, a distance of about 40 miles,
landing at the Crystal Palace. For several days the rain and wind
prevented attempting the return journey. On October 10 a strong
wind threatened to carry away the airship, so the gas bag was cut
open by the sergeant in charge.

Gas bag.—This is made of eight layers of gold beater’s skin. It
is cylindrical in shape with spherical ends. Volume, 84,768 cubic
feet; length, 1114 feet; maximum diameter, 314 feet.” The elonga-
tion therefore is only about 32. There is no ballonet, but due to the
toughness of the gold beater’s skin a much higher pressure can
safely be maintained than in gas bags of rubber cloth. Without a
ballonet, however, it would not be safe to rise to the heights reached
by the Patrie.

Valves—The valves are made of aluminum and are about 12
inches in diameter.

Suspension.—In this airship they have succeeded in obtaining a
“long” suspension with a short boat-shaped car, a combination very
much to be desired, as it distributes the weight over the entire length
of the gas bag and gives the best form of car for purposes of obser-
vation and for maneuvering on the ground. To obtain this combi-
nation they have had to construct a very heavy steel framework,
which cuts down materially the carrying capacity, and, moreover,
this framework adds greatly to the air resistance. This is the only
airship in Europe having a network to support the car. In addi-
tion, four silk bands are passed over the gas bag and wires run from
their extremities down to the steel frame. This steel frame is in
two tiers—the upper is rectangular in cross section and supports the
rudder and planes, the lower part is triangular in cross section and
supports the car. The joints are aluminum.

Car.—This is of steel and is about 30 feet long. To reduce air
resistance the car is covered with cloth.

Motor.—aA 40 to 50 horsepower 8-cylinder Antoinette motor is used.
It is set up on top of the car. The benzine tanks are supported above
in the framework. Gravity feed is used.

Propellers ——There are two propellers, one on each side, with two
blades each, as in the Patrie. They are made of aluminum, 10 feet
in diameter, and make 700 revolutions per minute. The transmission
is by belt.

Stability —This is maintained by means of planes. At the extreme
rear is a large fixed horizontal plane. In front of this is a pair of
hinged horizontal planes. Under this is the hexagonal-shaped rud-
*L ON aqgI9INIG HSIIDNA

°G 3LVI1d

‘deinbs>—g06| ‘Hoday ux;uosy})UIS
‘UVO SO STIVLAG «: NITadd3Z,, SISISIYIG NVWYaS

"9 3ALV1d syainbg>—gQ6| 'Hodey urluosyziws
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 17

der. It is balanced. Two pairs of movable horizontal planes, 8 feet
by 4 feet, each placed at the front, serve to guide the airship up and
down, as in the Patrie and Ville de Paris. These planes have addi-
tional inclined surfaces, which are intended to increase the stability
in a vertical plane. All these planes, both fixed and movable, are
constructed like kites, of silk stretched on bamboo frames. The guide
rope is 150 feet long. Speed attained, about 16 miles per hour. This
airship with a few improvements added has been in operation the
past few months. The steel framework connecting the gas bag to
the car is now entirely covered with canvas, which must reduce the
resistance of the air very materially. The canvas covering, inclosing
the entire bag, serves as a reinforcement to the latter and at the
same time gives attachment to the suspension underneath. It is re-
ported that a speed of 20 miles an hour has been attained with the
reconstructed airship.

A pyramidal construction similar to that on the Patrie has been
built under the center of the car to protect the car and propellers on
landing. A single movable horizontal plane placed at the front end
of the car and operated by the pilot, controls the vertical motion.

Germany.

Three different types of airships are being developed in Germany.
The Gross is the design of Major Von Gross, who commands the
balloon battalion at Tegel, near Berlin. The Parseval is being de-
veloped by Major Von Parseval, a retired German officer, and the
Zeppelin is the design of Count Zeppelin, also a retired officer of the
German army.

THE GROSS.

The first airship of this type made its first ascension on July 23,
1907. The mechanical part was built at Siemen’s Electrical Works
in Berlin; the gas bag by the Riedinger firm in Augsburg.

Gas bag.—The gas bag is made of rubber cloth furnished by the
Continental Tire Company, similar to that used in the Ville de Paris.
Tt is diagonal thread, but there is no inner layer of rubber, as they
do not fear damage from impurities in the hydrogen gas. Length,
1314 feet; maximum diameter, about 394 feet; volume, 63,576 cubic
feet. The elongation is about 34. The form is cylindrical with
spherical cones at the ends, the whole being symmetrical.

Suspension.—The suspension is practically the same as that of the
Patrie. A steel and aluminum frame is attached to the lower part of
the gas bag, and the car is suspended on this by steel cables. The ob-
jection to this system is even more apparent in the Gross than in the
Patrie. A marked dip along the upper meridian of the gas bag
shows plainly the deformation.
128 ANNUAL REPORF_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Car—tThe car 1s boat shaped, like that of the Patrie. It is sus-
pended 13 feet below the gas bag.

Motor.—The motor is a 20 to 24 horsepower, four-cylinder Daimler-
Mercedes.

Propellers.—There are two propellers 8.2 feet in diameter, each hay-
ing two biades. They are placed one on each side, but well up under
the gas bag near the center of resistance. The transmission is by belt.
The propellers make 800 revolutions per minute.

Stability.—The same system, with planes, is used in the Von Gross
as in the Patrie, but it is not nearly so well developed. At the rear
of the rigid frame attached to the gas bag are two fixed horizontal
planes, one on each side. A fixed vertical plane runs down from be-
tween these horizontal planes, and is terminated at the rear by the
rudder. <A fixed horizontal plane is attached on the rear of the gas
bag, as in the Patrie. The method of attachment is the same, but the
plane is put on before the inflation in the Gross airship, afterwards in
the Patrie. The stability of the Gross airship in a vertical plane is
reported to be very good, but it is said to veer considerably in attempt-
ing to steer a straight course.

The many points of resemblance between this dirigible and the
Lebaudy type are worthy of notice. The suspension or means of
maintaining stability and the disposition for driving are in general
the same. As first built the Gross had a volume of 14,128 cubic feet
less than at present, and there was no horizontal plane at the rear of
the gas bag. Its maximum speed is probably 15 miles per hour.
As a result of his experiments of 1907, Major Von Gross has this year
produced a perfected airship built on the same lines as his first, but
with greatly increased volume and dimensions. The latest one has a
volume of 176,000 cubic feet, is driven by two 75-horsepower Daimler
motors, and has a speed of 27 miles per hour.

On September 11, 1908, the Gross airship left Berlin at 10.25
p- m., carrying four passengers, and returned the next day at 11.30
a. m., having covered 176 miles in the period of a little over thirteen
hours. This is the longest trip to date, both in point of time and dis-
tance, ever made by any airship returning to the starting point.

THE PARSEVAL.

The Parseval airship is owned and controlled by the Society for the
Study of Motor Balloons. This organization, composed of capital-
ists, was formed practically at the command of the Emperor, who is
very much interested in aerial navigation. The society has a capital
of 1,000,000 marks, owns the Parseval patents, and is ready to con-
struct airships of the Von Parseval type. The present airship was
constructed by the Riedinger firm at Augsburg, and is operated from
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 129

the balloon house of this society at Tegel, adjoining the military bal-
loon house.

The gas bag is similar in construction to that of the Drachen bal-
loon, used by the army for captive work; volume, 113,000 cubic feet;
length, 190 feet; maximum diameter, 304 feet. It is cylindrical in
shape, rounded at the front end, and pointed at the rear. The mate-
rial was furnished by the Continental Tire Company. It is diagonal-
thread, weighing about 11.2 ounces per square yard, and having a
strength of about 940 pounds per running foot. Its inner surface is
covered with a layer of rubber.

Ballonets——There are two ballonets, one at each end, each having a
capacity of 10,596 cubic feet. The material in the ballonet weighs
about 81 ounces per square yard, the cotton layers being lighter than
in the material for the gas bag. Air is pumped into the rear ballonet
before leaving the ground, so that the airship operates with the front
end inclined upward. The air striking underneath exerts an upward
pressure, as on an aeroplane, and thus adds to its lifting capacity.
Air is pumped into the ballonets from a fan operated by the motor.
A complex valve just under the middle of the gas bag enables the
engineer to drive air into either or both ballonets. The valves also
act automatically and release air from the ballonets at a pressure of
about 0.9 of an inch of water.

In the middle of the top of the gas bag is a valve for releasing the
gas. It can be operated from the car, and opens automatically at a
pressure of about 2 inches of water. Near the two ends and on oppo-
site sides are two rip strips controlled from the car by cords.

Suspension.—The suspension is one of the characteristics of the
airship and is protected by patents. The car has four trolleys, two
on each side, which run on two steel cables. The car can run back-
ward and forward on these cables, thus changing its position with
relation to the gas bag. This is called “loose” suspension. Its
object is to allow the car to take up, automatically, variations in
thrust due to the motor and variations in resistance due to the air.
Ramifications of hen.p rope from these steel cables are sewn onto a
canvas strip, which in turn is sewn onto the gas bag. This part of the
suspension is the same as in the Drachen balloon. The weight is dis-
tributed over the entire length of the gas bag.

Car—tThe car is 16.4 feet long and is built of steel tubes and wire.
It is large enough to hold the motor and three men, though four or
five may be taken.

Motor.—The motor is a 110-horsepower Daimler-Mercedes. Suf-
ficient gasoline is carried for a run of twelve hours.

Propeller—The propeller, like the suspension, is peculiar to this
airship and is protected by patents. It has four cloth blades, which
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

hang limp when not turning. When the motor is running, these
blades, which are carefully weighted with lead at certain points,
assume the proper position due to the various forces acting. The
diameter is 133 feet. The propeller is placed above the rear of the
car near the center of resistance. Shaft transmission is used. The
propeller makes 500 revolutions per minute to 1,000 of the motor.
There is a space of 63 feet from the propeller blades to the gas bag,
the bottom of the car being about 30 feet from the gas bag. This
propeller has the advantage of being very light. Its position, so far
from the engine, necessarily incurs a great loss of power in trans-
mission.

The steering wheel at the front of the car has a spring device for
locking it in any position.

The 1908 model of this airship was constructed for the purpose
of selling it to the Government. Among other requirements is a
twelve-hour flight without landing and a sufficient speed to maneuver
against a 22-mile wind. A third and larger air ship of this type is
now under construction.

THE ZEPPELIN.

The Zeppelin airship, of which there have been four, differs from
all others in that the envelope is rigid. Sixteen separate gas bags are
contained in an aluminum alloy framework having 16 sides, covered
with a cotton and rubber fabric. The pressure of the air is taken up
by this framework instead of by the gas bags. The gas bags are not
entirely filled, thus leaving room for expansion.

The rigid frame is 446 feet long, 424 feet in diameter, and has
ogival-shaped ends. It is braced about every 45 feet by a number of
rods crossing near the center, giving a cross section resembling a
bicycle wheel. Vertical braces are placed at intervals the entire
length of the frame. The 16 gas bags are completely separated from
each other by partitions of sheet aluminum. Under the framework
is a triangular truss running nearly the entire length, the sides of
the triangle being about 8 feet. The total volume of the gas bags is
460,000 cubie feet, which gives a gross lift of about 32,000 pounds.

Suspension.—The two cars are rigidly attached directly to the
frame of the envelope and a very short distance below it.

Cars.—The two cars are built like boats. They are about 20 feet
long, 6 feet wide, 34 feet high; are placed about 100 feet from each
end and are made of the same aluminum alloy. To land the air-
ship, it is lowered until the cars float on the water, when it can be
towed like a ship. A third car is built into the keel directly under
the center of the framework, and is for passengers only.

Motors.—The power is furnished by two 110-horsepower Daimler-
Mercedes motors, one placed on each car. Each weighs about 550
pounds; sufficient fuel for a sixty-hours’ run can be carried.

MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 131

Propellers.—A pair of three-bladed metal propellers about 15 feet
in diameter is placed opposite each car, firmly attached to the frame
of the envelope at the height of the center of resistance, where they
are most efficient.

Stability—In addition to the long V-shaped keel under the rigid
frame, on each side at the rear of the frame are two nearly horizontal
planes, while above and below the rear end are vertical fins.

Steering.—A large vertical rudder is attached at the extreme end
of the rigid frame, and an additional one is placed between each set
of horizontal planes on the sides. For vertical steering there are
four sets of movable horizontal planes placed near the ends of the
rigid frame, about the height of the propellers. Each set consists of
four horizontal planes placed one above the other and connected with
rods, so that they work on the principle of a shutter. These horizon-
tal rudders serve another very important purpose, due to the reac-
‘tion of the air. When these planes are set at an angle of 15° and
the airship is making a speed of 35 miles per hour, an upward pres-
sure of over 1,700 pounds is exerted, and consequently all the gas
in one compartment could escape and yet by the manipulation of
these planes the airship could return safely to its starting point.

Its best performances were two trips made during the past summer
[1908]. The first, July 4, lasted exactly twelve hours, during which
time it covered a distance of 235 miles, crossing the mountains to
Lucerne and Zurich, and returning to the balloon house at Friedrichs-
hafen, on Lake Constance. The average speed on this trip was 32
miles per hour. On August 4 this airship attempted a twenty-four-
hour flight, which was one of the requirements made for its accept-
ance by the Government. It left Friedrichshafen in the morning
with the intention of following the Rhine as far as Mainz and then
returning to its starting point straight across the country. <A stop of
four hours and thirty minutes was made in the afternoon of the first
day on the Rhine, to repair the engine. On the return, a second stop
was found necessary near Stuttgart, due to difficulties with the
motors and the loss of gas. While anchored to the ground a storm
came up and broke loose the anchorages, and as the balloon rose in
the air it exploded and took fire, due to causes which have never been
actually determined and published, and fell to the ground, resulting
in its complete destruction. On this journey, which lasted in all
thirty-one hours and fifteen minutes, the airship was in the air
twenty hours and forty-five minutes and covered a total distance of
378 miles.

The patriotism of the German nation was aroused. Subscriptions
were immediately opened and in a short space of time $1,000,000
had been raised. A Zeppelin society was formed to direct the expendi-
ture of this fund. Eighty-five thousand dollars has been expended
132 ANNUAL REPORE_SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

for land near Friedrichshafen; shops are being constructed, and it
has been announced that within one year the construction of 8 air-
ships of the Zeppelin type will be completed. Recently the Crown
Prince of Germany made a trip in the Zeppelin No. 3, which had
been called back into service, and within a very few days the Km-
peror of Germany visited Friedrichshafen for the purpose of seeing
‘the airship in flight. He decorated Count Zeppelin with the Order
of the Black Eagle. German patriotism and enthusiasm has gone
further, and the German Association for an Aerial Fleet has been
organized in sections throughout the country. It announces its in-
tention of building 50 garages (hangars) for housing airships.

United States.

SIGNAL CORPS, DIRIGIBLE No. 1.

Due to unavailability of funds, the United States Government has —
not been able to undertake the construction of an airship sufficiently
arge and powerful to compete with those of European nations.
However, specifications were sent out January, 1908, for an airship not
over 120 feet long and capable of making 20 miles per hour. Con-
tract was awarded to Capt. Thomas 8. Baldwin, who delivered an
airship in August, 1908, to the Signal Corps, the description of which
follows:

Gas bag.—The gas bag is spindle shaped, 96 feet long, maximum
diameter 19 feet 6 inches, with a volume of 20,000 cubic feet. A
ballonet for air is provided inside the gas bag, and has a volume of
2,800 cubic feet. The material for the gas bag is made of two layers
of Japanese silk with a layer of vulcanized rubber between.

Car.—tThe car is made of spruce, and is 66 feet long, 24 feet wide,
and 24 feet high.

Motor.—The motor is a 20 horsepower, water-cooled Curtiss make.

Propeller—The propeller is at the front end of the car, and is con-
nected to the engine by a steel shaft. It is built up of spruce, has
a diameter of 10 feet 8 inches, with a pitch of 11 feet, and turns at
the rate of 450 revolutions per minute. A fixed vertical surface is
provided at the rear end of the car to minimize veering, and a hori-
zontal surface attached to the vertical rudder at the rear tends to
minimize pitching. A double horizontal surface controlled by a lever
and attached to the car in front of the engine serves to control the
vertical motion and also to minimize pitching.

The: position of the car very near to the gas bag is one of the
features of the government dirigible. This reduces the length and
consequently the resistance of the suspension, and places the pro-
peller thrust near the center of resistance.
“Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 7

SIGNAL Corps DirIGIBLE No. 1, IN FLIGHT, FORT Myer, VA., AUGUST, 1908.
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 8.

SIGNAL Corps DiriGiBLe No. 1, IN FLIGHT, FORT Myer, Va., AucusT, 1908.
"SANV1d ONINSANANVIA LNOYY JO STIVLSQ DSNIMOHS ‘1 “ON AT1SIDSIHIG SdHOD IVNDIS

"6 aLV1d

ainbs>—go6| ‘Hodey ueiuosy}iws
‘YvOd dO SIIVLAG SNIMOHS Sf) “ON STaIDSIYIG SdYOOD TVNDIS$

er

ES 3A SIT Se Migs TS EEF
Lge ae ea
ss » = Pee: 7

ae
|
i
i
j
|
i
4

SOL SEE Vale ainbg>—'g96| ‘HOday uRluosyyiWS
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 11

SIGNAL Corps DirRiciBLE No. 1, SHOWING DETAILS OF ENGINE.
‘USAN ‘VHVWO LYOY ‘LSOd SdYOD TVNDIS ‘LNVId DNILVYSNS5 NA90YH0AH ONV ‘YS1LSWOSV5 ‘ASNOH NOOTIVg 1331S

|

4
is
is

“OL ALV1d aInbS—-gQ6| ‘Hodey ueiuosyyiWS
MILITARY AERONAUTICS——SQUIER. 133

The total lifting power of this airship is 1,350 pounds, of which
500 pounds are available for passengers, ballast, fuel, ete. At its
official trials a speed of 19.61 miles per hour was attained over a
measured course, and an endurance run lasting two hours, during
which 70 per cent of the maximum speed was maintained.

Dirigible No. 1, as this airship has been named, has already served
a very important purpose in initiating officers of the Signal Corps
in the construction and operation of a dirigible balloon. With the
experience now acquired the United States Government is in a posi-
tion to proceed with the construction and operation of an airship
worthy of comparison with any now in existence, but any efforts in
this direction must await the action of Congress in providing the
necessary funds. * * *

IT. Avrarion.

This division comprises all those forms of heavier-than-air flying
machines which depend for their support upon the dynamic reaction
of the atmosphere. There are several subdivisions of this class de-
pendent upon the particular principle of operation. Among these
may be mentioned the aeroplane, orthopter, helicopter, etc. The only
one of these that has been sufficiently developed at present to carry
a man in practical flight is the aeroplane. There have been a large
number of types of aeroplanes tested with more or less success, and
of these the following are selected for illustration.

REPRESENTATIVE AEROPLANES OF VARIOUS TYPES.
THE WRIGHT BROTHERS’ AEROPLANE.

The general conditions under which the Wright machine was built
for the Government were that it should develop a speed of at least
36 miles per hour and in its trial flights remain continuously in the
air for at least one hour. It was designed to carry two persons hav-
ing a combined weight of 350 pounds, and also sufficient fuel for a
flight of 125 miles. The trials at Fort Myer, Virginia, in September
of 1908, indicated that the machine was able to fulfill the require-
ments of the government specifications.

The aeroplane has two superposed main surfaces 6 feet apart, with
a spread of 40 feet and a distance of 64 feet from front to rear. The
area of this double supporting surface is about 500 square feet. The
surfaces are so constructed that their extremities may be warped at
the will of the operator.

A horizontal rudder of two superposed plane surfaces about 15
feet long and 3 feet wide is placed in front of the main surfaces.
Behind the main planes is a vertical rudder formed of two surfaces
134 ANNUAL REPORE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

trussed together, about 54 feet long and 1 foot wide. The auxiliary
surfaces and the mechanism controlling the warping of the main sur-
faces are operated by three levers.

The motor, which was designed by the Wright brothers, has four
cylinders and is water cooled. It develops about 25 horsepower at
1,400 revolutions per minute. There are two wooden propellers, 83
feet in diameter, which are designed to run at about 400 revolutions
per minute. The machine is supported on two runners, and weighs
about 800 pounds. A monorail is used in starting.

The Wright machine has attained an estimated maximum speed of
about 40 miles per hour. On September 12, a few days before the
accident which wrecked the machine, a record flight of one hour
fourteen minutes twenty seconds was made at Fort Myer, Virginia.
Since that date Wilbur Wright, at Le Mans, France, has made better
records, on one occasion remaining in the air for more than an hour
and a half with a passenger.

A reference to the attached illustrations of this machine will show
its details, its method of starting, and its appearance in flight.

THr HERRING AEROPLANE.

The Signal Corps of the Army has contracted with A. M. Herring,
of New York, to furnish an aeroplane under the conditions enumer-
ated in the specification already referred to. Mr. Herring made
technical delivery of his machine at the aeronautical testing ground
at Fort Myer, Virginia, on October 13, 1908.

In compliance with the request of Mr. Herring the details of this
‘machine will not be made public at present, but the official tests re- -
quired under the-contract will be conducted in public, as has been
the case with other aeronautical devices. Opportunity will be af-
forded any one to observe the machine in operation.

This machine embodies new features for automatic control and
contains an engine of remarkable lightness per horsepower.

THE FARMAN AEROPLANE.

The Farman flying machine has two superposed aerosurfaces 4 feet
11 inches apart, with a spread of 42 feet 9 inches and 6 feet 7 inches
from front to rear. The total sustaining surface is about 560 square
feet. :

A box tail 6 feet 7 inches wide and 9 feet 10 inches long in rear of
the main surfaces is used to balance the machine. The vertical sides
of the tail are pivoted along the front edges, and serve as a vertical
rudder for steering in a horizontal plane. There are two parallel,
vertical partitions near the middle of the main supporting surfaces,
and one vertical partition in the middle of the box tail. A horizontal
rudder in front of the machine is used to elevate or depress it in flight.
“NOILONYLSNOD JO SIIVLAG *3NV1IdOH3Y «SYHSHLOYG LHOINAA

yl ae eval ct “aiInbDGS—'"gQ6| ‘Hoday ueiuosy}yIWS
"NOILONYLSNOD JO STIVLAG *S3NV1IdOYSY SYSHLOYG LHDIYM

‘pl aALV1d ‘ainbs>—'gQ6| ‘Wodey uRlUosYyIWS
‘M3IA YVAY ‘NOILONYLSNOD JO STivLag ‘SNV1d0usy ‘SHAHLOYG LHSIYAA

"GL aLVid

‘yainbS—'go6| ‘Hodey uejuosy}iWS
"S061 ‘6 HSEWALdaS “VA ‘USAIN, LYO4 ‘ANVIdOUSY SHSHLOUG LHOINAA

‘9, 3ALV1d sainbs—'gg6| ‘Hoday uejuosy}IWS
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 135

The motor is an eight-cylinder Antoinette of 50 horsepower
weighing 176 pounds, and developing about 38 horsepower at 1,050
revolutions per minute.

The propeller is a built-up steel frame covered with aluminum
sheeting, 7} feet in diameter, with a pitch of 4 feet 7 inches. It is
mounted directly on the motor shaft immediately in rear of the mid-
dle of the main surfaces.

The framework is of wood, covered with canvas. A chassis of steel
‘tubing carries two pneumatic-tired bicycle wheels. Two smaller
wheels are placed under the tail. The total weight of the machine
is 1,166 pounds. The main surfaces support a little over 2 pounds
per square foot. The machine has shown a speed of about 28 miles
per hour and no starting apparatus is used.

On January 13, 1908, Farman won the Grand Prix of the Aero
Club of France in a flight of one minute and twenty-eight seconds,
in which he covered more than a kilometer. It is reported that on
October 30, 1908, a flight of 20 miles, from Mourmelon to Rheims,
was made with this machine,

THE BLERIOT AEROPLANE.

Following Farman’s first flight from town to town, M. Blériot
with his monoplane aeroplane made a flight from Toury to the neigh-
borhood of Artenay and back, a total distance of about 28 kilometers.
He landed twice during these flights and covered 14 kilometers of
his journey in about ten minutes, or attained a speed of 52 miles an
hour.

THE JUNE Bue.

The June Bug was designed by the Aerial Experiment Association,
of which Alexander Graham Bell is president. It has two main
superposed aerosurfaces with a spread of 42 feet and 6 inches, includ-
ing wing tips, with a total supporting surface of 370 square feet.

The tail is of the box type. The vertical rudder above the rear
edge of the tail is 30 inches square. The horizontal rudder in front
of the main surfaces is 30 inches wide by 8 feet long. There are four
triangular wing tips pivoted along their front edges for maintaining
transverse equilibrium. The vertical rudder is operated by a steering
wheel, and the movable tips by cords attached to the body of the
aviator.

The motor is a 25-horsepower, 8-cylinder, air-cooled Curtiss. The
single wooden propeller immediately behind the main surfaces is 6
feet 2 inches in diameter and mounted directly on the motor shaft.
It has a pitch angle of about 17° and is designed to run at about 1,200
revolutions per minute.

88292—sm 1908——10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

The total weight of the machine, with aviator, is 650 pounds.
It has a load of about 12 pounds per square foot of supporting sur-
face. Two pneumatic-tired bicycle wheels are attached to the lower
part of the frame.

With this machine, Mr. G. H. Curtiss, on July 4, 1908, won the
Scientific American trophy by covering the distance of over a mile in
one minute and forty-two and two-fifths seconds at a speed of about
39 miles per hour.

SOME GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS WHICH GOVERN THE DESIGN OF AN
AEROPLANE.

The design of an aeroplane may be considered under the heads of
support, resistance and propulsion, stability, and control.

Support.

In this class of flying machines, since the buoyancy is practically
insignificant, support must be obtained from the dynamic reaction
of the atmosphere itself. In its simplest form, an aeroplane may
be considered as a single plane surface moving through the air.
The law of pressure on such a surface has been determined and may
be expressed as follows:

P = %cAV? sina (1)

in which P is the normal pressure upon the plane, % is a constant
of figure, o the density of the air, A is the area of the plane, V the
relative velocity of translation of the plane through the air, and a
the angle of flight.

This is the form taken by Duchemin’s formula for small angles
of flight such as are usually employed in practice. The equation
shows that the upward pressure on the plane varies directly with the
area of the plane, with the sine of the angle of flight, with the density
of the air, and also with the square of the velocity of translation.

It is evident that the total upward pressure developed must be at
least equal to the weight of the plane and its load, in order to support
the system. If P is greater than the weight, the machine will ascend ;
if less, it will descend.

The constant 4: depends only upon the shape and aspect of the plane,
and should be determined by experiment. For example, with a plane
1 foot square Ao = 0.00167, as determined by Langley, when P is
expressed in pounds per square foot, and V in feet per second.

Equation (1) may be written

P
OV ee

Q2ko sin «a

If P and a are kept constant then the equation has the form
AV? = constant. (2)
"8061 “6 YSaW31dag “VA ‘YSAW LYOJ ‘SNV1dONSY SYSHLONG LHOIUM

UP il, BUSA

bS—'g061 ‘Podey ueiuosy}iWS
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. — PLATE 18

WRIGHT BROTHERS’ AEROPLANE, FORT MYER, VA., SEPTEMBER 12, 1908.
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier.

PLATE 19.

WRIGHT BROTHERS’ AEROPLANE, ForT MYER, VA., SEPTEMBER 12, 1908.

Time of flight, 1 hour 14 minutes 20 seconds.
PLATE 20.

Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. ~_

|
H
|
|
i

WRIGHT BROTHERS’ AEROPLANE, FORT MYER, VA., SEPTEMBER 12, 1908.
Time of flight, 1 hour 14 minutes 20 seconds.
MILITARY AEKRONAUTICS—SQUIER. 137
PRINCIPLE OF REEFING IN AVIATION.

An interpretation of (2) reveals interesting relations. The sup-
porting area varies inversely as the square of the velocity. For
example, in the Wright aeroplane, the supporting area at 40 miles

per hour is 500 square feet, while if the speed is increased to 60 miles
=

‘ 000
per hour this area need be only 150: = 222 square feet, or less than

one-half of its present size. At 80 miles per hour the area would be
reduced to 125 square feet, and at 100 miles per hour only 80 square
feet of supporting area is required. These relations are conveniently
exhibited graphically.

It thus appears that if the angle of flight be kept constant in the
Wright aeroplane, while the speed is increased to 100 miles per hour.
we may picture a machine which has a total supporting area of 80
square feet, or a double surface, each measuring about 24 by 16 feet or
4 by 10 feet if preferred. Furthermore, the discarded mass of the
420 square feet of the original supporting surface may be added to the
weight of the motor and propellers in the design of a reduced aero-
plane, since in this discussion the total mass is assumed constant at
1,000 pounds.

In the case of a bird’s flight, its wing surface is “ reefed ” as its
velocity is increased, which instinctive action serves to reduce its head
resistance and skin-frictional area, and the consequent power required
for a particular speed.

Determination of k for arched surfaces.—Since arched surfaces are
now commonly used in aeroplane construction, and as the above
equation (1) applies to plane surfaces only, it is important to deter-
mine experimentally the value of the coefficient of figure /, for each
type of arched surface employed, especially as % is shown in some
cases to vary with the angle of flight a; 1. e., the inclination of the
chord of the surface to the line of translation.

Assuming a constant, however, we may compare the lift of any
particular arched surface with a plane surface of the same projected
plan and angle of flight.

To illustrate, in the case of the Wright aeroplane, let us assume

P = 1,000 pounds = total weight = W.
A = 500 square feet.
V = 40 miles per hour = 60 feet per second.
a = 7°, approximately.
1% 1,000
Whence a :

DAV? sina 2X 500 x 60? x4
= 0.0022 (V = foot-seconds)
= 0.005 (V = miles per hour).
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

Comparing this value of ko with Langley’s value 0.004 for a plane
surface V being in miles per hour, we see that the lift for the arched
surface is 25 per cent greater than for a plane surface of the same
projected plan. That is to say, this arched surface is dynamically
equivalent to a plane surface of 25 per cent greater area than the
projected plan. Such a plane surface may be defined as the “ equiva-
lent plane.”

Resistance and propulsion.

The resistance of the air to the motion of an aeroplane is composed
of two parts, (a) the resistance due to the framing and load; (0) the
necessary resistance of the sustaining surfaces; that is, the drift or
horizontal component of. pressure, and the unavoidable skin friction.
Disregarding the frame and considering the aeroplane as a simple
plane surface, we may express the resistance by the equation

R = W tana + 2fA (3)

in which R is the total resistance, W the gross weight sustained, a the
angle of flight, 7 the friction per square unit of area of the plane, A
the area of the plane. The first term of the second member gives the
drift, the second term the skin friction. The power required to
propel the aeroplane is

Jel == Jy

in which H is the power, V the velocity.

Now W varies as the second power of the velocity, as shown by
equation (1), and 7 varies as the power 1.85, as will be shown later.
Hence we conclude that the total resistance R of the air to the
aeroplane varies approximately as the square of its speed, and the
propulsive power practically as the cube of speed.

Most advantageous speed and angle of flight—Again, regarding
W and A as constant, we may, by equation (1), compute a for various
values of V, and find f for those velocities from the skin-friction table
to be given presently. Thus a, R, and H may be found for various
velocities of flight, and their magnitudes compared. In this way the
values in Table 1 were computed for a soaring plane 1 foot square,
‘weighing 1 pound, assuming iio = 0.004, which is approximately
Langley’s value when V is in miles per hour.
‘Iasuossud puw JYSIUAA O[[LAIQ “JARs oY] JOY Apvory

"S061 ‘SL YSANALdaS “VA ‘YSAI) LYOS ‘ANV1IdOYHSY «SHSHLOYUG LHDINMA

“lo dlv1d ainbsS—'gQ6| ‘Hoday uRrluosy}IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 22.

WRIGHT BROTHERS’ AEROPLANE, FORT MYER, VA., SEPTEMBER 12, 1908.

Oryille Wright and passenger. Time, 9 minutes 6 seconds.
Smithsonian Report, 1908.—Squier. PLATE 23.

Fic. 1.—FARMAN AEROPLANE.

Fia. 2.—‘ JUNE BUG” AEROPLANE, HAMMONDSPORT, N. Y.

Aerial Experiment Association.
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER.

139

TABLE 1.—Computed power required to tow a plane 1 foot square weighing 1
pound horizontally through the air at various speeds and angles of flight.

istance. i
r , : Angle eh am ee Tow-line eee
Velocity (miles per honr). of : power. hone
flight Driit. Friction. Total. power.
cS Pounds. Pounds. Pounds. | Ft. lb. sec. | Pounds.
Beer eee Sons Saree a ee aise 8.25 0.145 0.0170 0.162 718) wueu
SOP e eae foe mnie a rian ys siniee Pei ais 5.94 . 104 . 0226 . 1266 6.51 84,3
40 es eA ea ee ae Seeks hi 4,52 . 790 . 0289 . 1079 6.32 86.7
HN eee RB CLC ESE Se OE EEE 3.55 . 0621 . 0360 . 0981 6.39 86.1
BO eee en ea emaia eee micas 2.88 . 0500 . 0489 . 0939 6.89 80.2
GO seer re erin Soe sie ocala 2.03 . 0354 . 0614 . 0962 8.50 64.7
(os dost £2452 aE aA eee ore 1.47 . 0257 . 0814 - 1071 11.00 50.0
Sess eee ase eee oe se 1,12 - 0195 . 1045 . 1240 14. 56 35.8
SO eee oe aia aoe ss -88 . 0154 . 1800 . 1454 19.17 28.7
ROW R- 33S See ee ee eae ay . 0124 . 1584 . 1708 25. 00 22.0

Column two, giving values of a for various speeds,

from equation (1). Thus, at 30 miles per hour,

W

St OPN Va 5 Oe 004K 1. 307

whence a = 8.25°.

Ht

is computed

Column three is computed from the term W tan a in equation (3),

thus:

Drrtg —W tan a — 1>C tan: 3:25° = 0/145:

Column four is computed from the term 2/A in equation (3),
f being taken from the skin-friction table, to be given presently.

The table shows that if a thin plane 1 foot square, weighing 1 pound,
be towed through the air so as just to float horizontally at various
velocities and angles of flight, the total resistance becomes a minimum
at an angle of slightly less than 3°, and at a velocity of about 50 miles
per hour; also that the skin-friction approximately equals the drift
at this angle. The table also shows that the propulsive power for the
given plane is a minimum at a speed of between 40 and 45 miles per
hour, the angle of flight then being approximately 4.5°.

The last column of the table shows that the maximum weight

carried per horsepower is less than 90 pounds.

This horse load may

be increased by changing the foot-square plane to a rectangular plane
and towing it long side foremost; also by lightening the load, and
letting the plane glide at a lower speed; but best of all, perhaps, by
arching it like a vulture’s wing and also towing it long side foremost
as is the prevailing practice with aeroplanes.

Stability and control.

The question of stability is a serious one in aviation, especially as
increased wind velocities are encountered.

In machines of the aero-
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

plane type there must be some means provided to secure fore and aft
stability and also lateral stability.

A large number of plans have been proposed for the accomplish-
ment of these ends, some based upon the skill of the aviator, others
operated automatically, and still others employing a combination
of both. At the present time no aeroplane has yet been publicly
exhibited which is provided with automatic control. There is little
difference of opinion as to the desirability of some form of automatic
control.

The Wright aeroplane does not attempt to accomplish this, but
depends entirely upon the skill of the aviator to secure both lateral
and longitudinal equilibrium; but it is understood that a device for
this purpose is one of the next to be brought forward by them. Much*
of the success of the Wright brothers has been due to their logical
procedure in the development of the aeroplane, taking the essentials,
step by step, rather than attempting everything at once, as is so often
the practice with inexperienced inventors.

The aviator’s task is much more difficult than that of the chauffeur.
With the chauffeur, while it is true that it requires his constant atten-
tion to guide his machine, yet he is traveling on a roadway where he
can have due warning through sight of the turns and irregularities
of the course.

The fundamental difference between operating the aeroplane and
the automobile is that the former is traveling along an aerial high-
way which has manifold humps and ridges, eddies and gusts, and
since the air is invisible he can not see these irregularities and inequali-
ties of his path, and consequently can not provide for them until he
has actually encountered them. He must feel the road since he can
not see it.

Some form of automatic control whereby the machine itself
promptly corrects for the inequalities of its path is evidently very
desirable. As stated above, a large number of plans for doing this
have been proposed, many of them based on gyrostatic action, mov-
able side planes, revolving surfaces, warped surfaces, etc. A solu-
tion of this problem may be considered as one of the next important
steps forward in the development of the aeroplane.

III. Hypromecuanic RELATIONS.
SOME GENERAL RELATIONS BETWEEN SHIPS IN AIR AND IN WATER.

At the present moment so many minds are engaged upon the gen-
eral problem of aerial navigation that any method by which a broad
forecast of the subject can be made is particularly desirable. Each
branch of the subject has its advocates, each believing implicitly in
the superiority of his method. On the one hand the adherents of
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 141

the dirigible balloon have little confidence in the future of the aero-
plane, while another class have no energy to devote to the dirigible
balloon, and still others prefer te work on the pure helicopter princi-
ple. As a matter of fact, each of these types is probably of perma-
nent importance, and each particularly adapted to certain needs.

Fortunately for the development of each type, the experiments
made with one class are of value to the other classes, and these in
turn bear close analogy to the types of boats used in marine navi-
gation. The dynamical properties of water and air are very much
alike, and the equations of motion are similar for the two fluids, so
that the data obtained from experiments in water, which are very
extensive, may with slight modification be appled to computations
for aerial navigation.

Helmholtz’s theorem.—V on Helmholtz, the master physicist of Ger-
many, who illuminated everything he touched, has fortunately con-
sidered this subject in a paper written in 1873. The title of his
paper is “ On a theorem relative to movements that are geometrically
similar in fluid bodies, together with an application to the problem of
steering balloons.”

In this paper Helmholtz affirms that, although the differential
equations of hydromechanics may be an exact expression of the.laws
controlling the motions of fluids, still it is only for relatively few and
simple experimental cases that we can obtain integrals appropriate
to the given conditions, particularly if the cases involve viscosity and
surfaces of discontinuity.

Hence, in dealing practically with the motion of fluids, we must
depend upon experiment almost entirely, often being able to predict
very little from theory, and that usually with uncertainty. Without
integrating, however, he applies the hydrodynamic equations to
transfer the observations made on any one fluid with given models
and speeds over to a geometrically similar mass of another fluid
involving other speeds and models of different magnitudes. By this
means he is able to compute the size, velocity, resistance, power, etc.,
of aerial craft from given, or observed, values for marine craft.

He also deduces laws that must inevitably place a limit upon the
possible size and velocity of aerial craft without, however, indi-
cating what that limit may be with artificial power. Applying this
mode of reasoning to large birds he concludes by saying that “ It
therefore appears probable that in the model of the great vulture
nature has already reached the limit that can be attained with the
muscles as working organs, and under the most favorable conditions
of subsistence, for the magnitude of a creature that shall raise itself
by its wings and remain a long time in the air.”

In comparing the behavior of models in water and air he takes
account of the density and viscosity of the media, as these were well
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

known at the date of his writing, 1873; but he could not take ac-
count of the sliding, or skin-frictidn, because in his day neither
the magnitude of such friction for air, nor the law of its variation
with velocity, had been determined.

Skin-friction in ar.

Even as late as Langley’s experiments, skin-friction in air was
regarded as a negligible quantity, but due to the work of Doctor
Zahm, who was the first to make any really extensive and reliable
experiments on skin-friction in air, we now can estimate the magni-
tude of this quantity. As a result of his research he has given in his
paper on “ Atmospheric friction” the following equation:

Ff = 0.00000778 2°" o. . . (v=feet per second),
f= 9.0000158 2~-°% y®. . . (v=miles per hour),

in which / is the average skin-friction per square foot, and / the
length of surface.

From this equation the accompanying table of resistances was
computed, and is inserted here for the convenience of engineers:

TABLE 2,—Friction per square foot for various speeds and lengths of surface.

Average friction, in pounds per square foot.
Wind speed (miles per hour).
1-foot 2-foot 4-foot 8-foot 16-foot 32-foot
plane. plane. plane. plane. plane. plane.

Oe ee AS See ete te ee 0. 000303 0. 000289 0. 000275 0. 000262 0. 000250 0. 000288
LON a Sass ree lk saa ee . 00112 . 00105 . 00101 . 000967 . 000922 . 000878
DDD 5s Pe eee, Spores ie wae ee lae | . 00237 . 00226 . 00215 . 00205 . 00195 . 00186
20 se ot noe batecosnists ae Sees | . 00402 . 00384 . 00365 . 00349 . 00332 . 00317
DO epelos Sassen eee . 00606 . 00579 . 00551 «00527 - 00501 . 00478
SOR Ase ieieteeca i cise soe eceene . 00850 . 00810 . 00772 . 00736 - OO70L . 00668
BBY j5 oot fae of So ee . 01180 . 0108 . 0103 . 0098 . 00932 . 00888
AO ene etna Soe ae eee . 0145 . 0138 . 0132 . 0125 . 0125 . 0114
BOE Mee si) ane on ee | 0219 0209 0199 0190 0181 0172
GOB AR eit soscce oeesseeeern | . 0307 . 0293 . 0279 . 0265 . 0253 - 0242
1) Saco nee OceeCE toredeeesc . 0407 . 0390 . 0370 . 0358 . 0337 . 0321
SO ee: Sete a attes sueials cee . 0522 . 0500 . 0474 . 0452 . 0431 . 0411
UD cdnssead doseeeaaaseee ares . 0650 . 0621 . 0590 . 0563 . 0536 . 0511

HOO een enS.. Le echisleses koe . 0792 . 0755 .0719 . 0685 . 0652 . 0622

The numbers within the rules represent data coming within the
range of observation. These observations show that “ the frictional
resistance is at least as great for air as water, in proportion to their
densities. In other words, it amounts to a decided obstacle in high-
speed transportation. In aeronautics it is one of the chief elements
MILITARY AERONAUTICS—SQUIER. 143

of resistance both to hull-shaped bodies and to aero-surfaces gliding
at small angles of flight.”

Relative dynamic and buoyant support.—Peter Cooper-Hewitt has
given careful study to the relative behavior of ships in air and in
water. He has made a special study of hydroplanes, and has pre-
pared graphic representations of his results which furnish a valuable
forecast of the problem of flight.

Without knowing of Helmholtz’s theorem, Cooper-Hewitt has inde-
pendently computed curves for ships and hydroplanes from actual
data in water, and has employed these curves to solve analogous prob-
lems in air, using the relative densities of the two media, approxi-
mately 800 to 1, in order to determine the relative values of support
by dynamic reaction and by displacement for various weights and
speeds.

An analysis of these curves leads to conclusions of importance,
some of which are as follows:

The power consumed in propelling a displacement vessel at any
constant speed, supported by air or water, is considered as being two-
thirds consumed by skin-resistance, or surface resistance, and one-
third consumed by head resistance. Such a vessel will be about 10
diameters in length, or should be of such shape that the sum of the
power consumed in surface friction and in head resistance will be a
minimum (torpedo shape).

The power required to overcome friction due to forward movement
will be about one-eighth as much for a vessel in air as for a vessel of
the same weight in water.

Leaving other things out of consideration, higher speeds can be
obtained in craft of small tonnage by the dynamic reaction type than
by the displacement type, for large tonnages the advantages of the
displacement of type are manifest.

A dirigible balloon carrying the same weight, other things being
equal, may be made to travel about twice as fast as a boat for the
same power or be made to travel at the same speed with the expendi-
ture of about one-eighth of the power.

As there are practically always currents in the air reaching at
times a velocity of many miles per hour, a dirigible balloon should
be constructed with sufficient power to be able to travel at a speed of
about 50 miles per hour, in order that it may be available under prac-
tical conditions of weather. In other words, it should have sub-
stantially as much power as would drive a boat, carrying the same
weight, 25 miles an hour, or should have the same ratio of power
to size as the Lusttania.

M otors.—It is the general opinion that any one of several types of
internal combustion motors at present available is suitable for use
with dirigible balloons. With this type hghtness need not be ob-
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

tained at the sacrifice of efficiency. In the aeroplane, however, light-
ness per output is a prime consideration, and certainty and reliability
of action is demanded, since if by chance the motor stops the ma-
chine must immediately glide to the earth. A technical discussion
of motors would of itself require an extended paper, and may well
form the subject of a special communication.

Propellers —The fundamental principles of propellers are the
same for air as for water. In both elements the thrust is directly
proportional to the mass of fluid set in motion per second. A great
variety of types of propellers have been devised, but thus far only
the screw propeller has proved to be of practical value in air. The
theory of the screw propeller in air is substantially the same as for
the deeply submerged screw propeller in water, and therefore does
not seem to call for treatment here. There is much need at present
for accurate aerodynamic data on the behavior of screw propellers
in air, and it is hoped that engineers will soon secure such data and
present it in practical form for the use of those interested in airship
design.

Limitations —Euclid’s familiar “square-cube” theorem connect-
ing the volumes and surfaces of similar figures, as is well known,
operates in favor of increased size of dirigibles and limits the pos-
sible size of heavier-than-air machines in single units and with
concentrated loads.

It appears, however, that both fundamental forms of aerial craft
will likely be developed, and that the lighter-than-air type will be
the burden-bearing machine of the future, whereas the heavier-than-
air type will be limited to comparatively low tonnage, operating at
relatively high velocity. The helicopter type of machine may be
considered as the limit of the aeroplane when, by constantly increas-
ing the speed, the area of the supporting surfaces is continuously
reduced until it practically disappears. We may then picture a
racing aeroplane propelled by great power, supported largely by
the pressure against its body, and with its wings reduced to mere
fins which serve to guide and steady its motion. In other words,
starting with the aeroplane type, we have the dirigible balloon on
the one hand as the tonnage increases, and the helicopter type on
the other extreme as the speed increases. Apparently, therefore,
no one of these forms will be exclusively used, but each will have its
place for the particular work required. * * *

9
AVIATION IN FRANCE IN 1908.2

By PrerRRE-RoGER JOURDAIN,
Member of the Aero Club of France, General Secretary of the Aero Club of Vichy.

The science of aviation may be said to have originated with the
French. Itisnotanewscience. As far back as 1742 there is authentic
record of mechanical flight by man. In that year the Marquis of
Bacqueville, 60 years old, hurled himself from his house top, glided
a distance of 300 meters, and landed unceremoniously on a laundry
boat moored along the banks of the Seine. Later came the isolated
experiments by Blanchard (1753-1809) and by Degen, and aviation
was for the time forgotten.

Henson, in 1843, and Du Temple, in 1857, constructed the first fly-
ing machines of rational design. These embodied in embryo the main
features of some of our present machines, yet nothing was accom-
plished with either of them.

Then came the profitable agitation of the subject aroused in 1863
by Nadar, who, relying on the experiments of Ponton d’Amécourt
and of Lalandelle, revolutionized European ideas by his well-known
exposition of the science of aerial navigation. Nadar pointed out
that up to that time the balloon must be held responsible for the
lack of progress in mechanical flight, and that to actually fly it was
essential that the apparatus be heavier than air. In his researches he
had the support of M. Babinet, member of the institute. Then avia-
tion again dropped from public notice. Although forgotten by the
public, several investigators, among them Penaud, de Villeneuve,
Tatin, and Marey, were conducting the first series of scientific studies
on the flight of birds, which are still consulted with profit. Finally

“Conference under the auspices of the association of former pupils of the
Faculty of Sciences of Paris, in the large amphitheater of the Sorbonne, Decem-
ber 19, 1908, M. Appell presiding. Translated, with permission, from the Revue
Scientifique, Paris, February 18, 1909.

145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

came the experiments by Lilienthal, Maxim, Langley, and Chanute,
from 1892 to 1896.

Specifically, what is the problem of aviation? It consists in
launching a heavy body from the earth and in maintaining and
guiding it in the air through purely mechanical means. Aviation
has also been defined as the science of flying with machines heavier
than air, as distinguished from aerostation, the science of ballooning,
with apparatus lighter than air.

It is the solution of this difficult problem of flying that men have
sought for a number of years.

Three different solutions of the problem have been proposed: One
is in servile imitation of nature, that represented by the orthopter or
wing machine. The second is a purely artificial conception, that of
the helicopter or screw machine. The third is that of the aeroplane,
which may be considered as a compromise, or a combination of the
first two systems.

The wing machine is, as I have stated, a servile imitation of nature.
It is equipped with moving wings, and the machine is lifted by the
reaction from the flapping of these wings. One of the principal
representatives of this type is that designed by Blanchard even before
Montgolfier’s hot air balloon; and, if rumors may be believed, secret
experiments are now being conducted in Belgium with the La Hault
type of this machine.

In these wing machines the amount of force upon the air is normal
and applied directly, so as to raise the apparatus vertically. It is at
once evident that of the two motions in the flapping of the wings, the
downward stroke causes the machine to move upward, while the up-
ward stroke rather retards this movement. The attempt has been
made to overcome this difficulty by the use of valves in the wings
that open when the wing is raised and close when it is lowered.
None of these machines, however, has given satisfactory results.

The second type is the helicopter, or screw machine, a purely arti-
ficial conception. Paucton was the first to suggest the application
of the principle of the screw to aerial navigation, but it remained for
de Lalandelle and Ponton d’Amécourt to actually experiment with
this system and obtain the first practical results.

The principle of this system is that of a screw turning upon a
vertical axis, and it is the reaction of the air during the movement of
the screw that should balance or overcome the weight of the apparatus
and cause it to rise.

These machines are very complicated. Whenever a force is applied
to a medium such as air, there results a reaction equal to the action
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. TAs?

first brought to bear. The screw, and consequently the whole
machine, sustains from the air upon which it acts, a reaction equal to,
but in the direction opposite to, that which it exercises. If we havea
screw turning in a certain direction, the whole apparatus, upon the
stability of which we rely to force the turning of the screw against
the air, will tend to turn in the opposite direction as the result of a
reactive force equal to that exercised by the screw. To overcome this
tendency the attempt was made to increase the inertia of the machine
by attaching vertical planes or surfaces in such a manner as to retard
its rotative movement.

But these large surfaced vertical planes are cumbersome and heavy.
With laudable persistency investigators have devised a second method
more advantageous than the first, which consists in the use of two
screws turning in opposite directions, so that the effect of the reaction
of the air on one screw is neutralized by the reaction on the other.
Such an apparatus is capable only of lifting and sustaining itself in
the air; it can not move horizontally. For this movement it must be
supplied with a third screw, or propeller, mounted on a horizontal
axis. This forms still another complication, for the use of only two
sustaining screws is a minimum depending on the weight of the
machine. And since the size of the screws is limited by considera-
tions of strength their number must be increased, always in pairs, to
four, six, or eight.

M. Cornu in 1907 succeeded in lifting two passengers vertically.
To obtain a horizontal movement M. Breguet attached to his machine
cloth planes inclined at an appropriate angle, and it was through the
reaction of the air from the vertical displacement on these planes that
this apparatus was designed to move forward.

Let us now examine the third solution, that of the aeroplane, which,
as I have said, is a compromise or a combination of the first two
systems,

In the aeroplane the principal parts are comprised in an inclined
surface, and it is this inclined surface gliding at a certain speed
into the wind that sustains the machine. The total reaction of the air
upon this surface resolves itself into two components—the resistance to
horizontal advancement and the vertical thrust. These two forces
are proportional to the square of the speed of propulsion and the
area of the plane surface. Thus, if a given speed is doubled, we bring
to bear on a given surface area, a force equal to the square of the force
at the initial speed. This is the reason for the efforts to attain a
greater speed, a speed which depends upon the power of the engine
and screw of motor-propelled machines.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

ELEMENTARY THEORY OF AVIATION.
(After M. Armengaud, jr.)

w3nw ee = = SS ee

‘ V. Pressure
‘10f Wand

Ril eR ING
P
Fig. 1.

R = resistance of air per square meter.

S = sustaining surface.

V = speed, assuming horizontal displacement in calm air.

i = angle of attack.

P = weight to be sustained and driven forward.

Jf = horizontal component of the resistance or the force opposed to horizontal motion.

P’ = vertical component, or reaction making up the sustaining force, and equal
Ko) len

T =elementary work in the case of a plane.

‘© = total work.

K = coefficient of resistance of the air.

LAW OF VARIATIONS OF THE RESISTANCE OF THE AIR FOLLOWING THE ANGLE OF
ATTACK,

N; =Resistance of the inclined plane making the angle i.

Noo=Resistance of the perpendicular plane to advancement.

sin? 7 (Newton and Euler).
sin 2 (Marey).

t Lean 3 (Rayleigh).

NER rae: mae j (Gerlach).
ar (Duchemin).

sin 7 [a—(a—l) sin?7] (Renard).
FORMUL.

In the case of a narrow plane.

R=KSY? (plane perpendicular to V).
R;=KSYV? sin 7 (inclined on V).
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. 149

P=R; cos i=KSV? sin 7 cos i or $ KSV? sin 2i.
ier eas
KS sin 2i
f=R; sin 1=KSY? sin? 7.
122 ~

S=K8V? cos? i Saas = —— ae tems

7 V—KSYV® sin? 1.

_KS\4P*sin®i

7 WARES

Whence:
Pp?
T=KgvV cos’ i
By eliminating V we have—
ae So peniee
om cos i¥ KS ae

In case of the aeroplane.

F=total force of movement.
=force required to overcome resistance to advancement.
K’=coefficient of resistance of the air to advancement.
S’=ideal surface corresponding to framework, with motor, rigging, aviator and
equipment.
Jo be SON.
Fast’.
B=(FHINV.
— = 4Q/ 73.
To secure the minimum value of ‘6 the derivatives may be used with the following
result:

ve Pp? a
dv. KSV? cos? aeiets Tie) aes
Whence: fH3f".

Propulsion creates and accompanies sustenance.

In this connection I wish to make clear one frequently disputed
point in regard to aerial navigation—that is, as to the impor-
tance of the part played by the wind. As far as the aeroplane is
concerned this is reduced to a minimum. As a matter of fact, the
governing feature of an aeroplane is the speed of the machine itself
against the air. If the air produces a pressure that is negative, or
of no effect at all, it will influence only the horizontal displacement
of the machine; the vertical displacement will depend always on the
speed of the aeroplane itself. If the speed of the wind blowing
against the machine is equal to the machine’s own speed, the aeroplane
will rise but will not advance; it will fly and yet be stationary in
the air. If there is no opposing wind, the machine will move hori-
zontally at a rate equal to its own speed; if the wind blows in the
direction the machine is going, the rate of advance of the aeroplane
will be the sum of its own speed and of the speed of the wind.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

This solution of the problem is, a priori, better than that offered.
by the wing or screw machines. In fact, in applying the principle
of the inclined plane, instead of lifting directly the total weight of
the machine, it is necessary to, bring into play forces proportional
only to one-eighth or one-fifth of this weight.

I said this machine was in a way a compromise or combination.
We find in it, in fact, both an imitation of nature and an intervention
of artificial contrivances.

If we observe the great soaring birds, such as the vulture and the
sea gull, we see them often remain motionless in the air, their wings
stretched, or even glide forward without flapping their wings. This
is true only under certain circumstances, and is what we call “le vol
a la voile” (sailing flight). It is really an optical illusion, for if
we substitute for our eyes a cinematograph or instruments of study,
such as those designed by Marey, we should be able, so to speak, to
dissect the flight of the bird, and we should find that the tips of
the wings are slightly moved from time to time. These movements
of the tips of the wings are supplanted in the machine by the screw
propeller. The propeller furnishes the same propulsion as that
secured by the wings of the bird. Consequently, a machine con-
structed in this manner, with a plane suitably inclined, and a sys-
tem of motor propulsion, should be able to lift itself in the air. But
to lift itself is not enough; it-should be capable of sustaining itself
and of being guided; and there occurs the question, would such a
machine equipped merely in this manner maintain itself in the air?
No, it would not, for the air is essentially mobile; the wind, even
when it seems most constant, is made up of pulsations, of layers of dif-
ferent speeds, pressures, and densities. So, considering merely its re-
sistance to the advance of the machine, since this resistance varies
in proportion to the density of the medium, the aeroplane, subjected
to these incessant fluctuations of the wind, will tend momentarily
to change its state of equilibrium; it will undergo various move-
ments, forward and backward, to the right and to the left, and will
doubtless capsize. Furthermore, the steadiest atmospheric winds are
filled with counter currents. If there is one principal current flowing
in a definite direction, together with it are to be found accessory
currents, oblique winds, winds rising from eddies caused by obstruc-
tions of the ground, and the uneven slopes of the earth, trees, and
houses. These currents striking the large planes on the side would
tend to capsize the machine.

There are three movements to be guarded against in an aeroplane:
pitching, rolling, and a tendency to veer unexpectedly. We must be
able to guide the machine at will. This question of longitudinal and
transverse equilibrium has been a source of trouble to our aviators
for a long time. And during the present year, 1908, aviators have
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. 151

been divided into two schools, those who favor the system of gov-
erned longitudinal equilibrium and those who prefer automatic longi-
tudinal equilibrium.

The school of governed equilibrium is made up of those who rely
upon the pilot of the machine to overcome by constant maneuvering
any movements out of the line of perfect balance. Take for instance
the pitching. This movement, forward or backward, so familiar on
shipboard would tend to make the machine shoot up or down. To
overcome this pitching a movable horizontal rudder is used. This
part of the apparatus is composed simply of a miniature reproduction
of the sustaining plane and is usually placed in front quite a distance
from the center of gravity. This plane is pivoted on an axis and can
be inclined at the will of the pilot. If the machine tends to pitch
downward, the pilot, by merely increasing the angle of the plane,
lifts the front part of the machine; the whole apparatus follows
this movement and assumes a horizontal position, which is the posi-
tion of equilibrium.

To overcome rolling, the machines, even those whose longitudinal
balance is a governed one, generally have a certain arrangement
which we might call automatic, embodied in the angle made between
the two planes following the longitudinal axis of the machine. This
angle reduces to a certain extent the amplitude of the oscillation. To
overcome the rolling movement the aviator acts exactly as in the case
of pitching; he inclines the wing on one side or on the other. He can
incline either the whole wing by warping it, or perhaps only a portion
of it, the tip of the wing only being made movable. The governing
motion is the same; if the machine begins to fall to the right or to the
left, it is necessary only to give a greater inclination to the wing on the
side toward which the aeroplane is falling in order that it may right
itself.

To prevent unexpected veering, there is a tail in the form of a cross
which acts like the feathers of an arrow and insures true direction.

A machine of governed equilibrium thus composed of a plane and
a system of motor propulsion and of an arrangement to avoid pitch-
ing, rolling, and veering can rise and maintain itself in the air, but
it is a dangerous machine. To follow the very happy expression of
M. Painlevé, it is “a veritable thoroughbred of the air ” which needs
a jockey with plenty of nerve. The principal examples of this type
are the Wright, the Blériot, and the Robert Esnault-Pelterie ma-
chines. The Wright machine, however, although of governed equi-
hbrium, differs from the ideal type that I have just pictured in that
it is a biplane.

The real difference between a monoplane and a biplane, and the
reason why some aviators prefer the latter to the former is because,

88292—sm 1908——11
152. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

with equal surface areas, the biplane is much easier to construct,
especially when, as is the practice to-day, rigid surfaces are sought.
The biplanes are also more compact than the monoplanes, and permit
the use of an equal area of wing surface with only half the spread.
Furthermore, equilibrium is preserved much more easily in a biplane.
The underlying principles of these phenomena have not yet been
completely explained. I shall confine myself to recalling the ideas
of Chanute on the cellular forms (biplanes in compartments), ideas
apparently well founded. Chanute holds that an air current at high
speed confined by the walls or planes of the apparatus offers great
resistance to any lateral displacement. It is somewhat similar to the
action of the gyroscope, or rather the action is similar to that in a
hose from which water is rushing out at a great speed and which is
difficult to move. The same principles govern aeroplanes.

Another detail: We have said that aeroplanes are sustained in the
air by means of plane surfaces. This is not absolutely accurate, since
the sustaining surfaces, viewed in section, show a slight curve. This
curve is the result of experiment. It was found that the best flights’
were obtained when the wings cut the air squarely with their front
edges, and when the resistance of the air was used on surfaces inclined
gradually in greater degree. Air is so complex a medium and one
that we really understand so little that it is only by long and careful
experiment that the proper curve of the wings has been determined.
The Wright brothers and the Voisin brothers spent several years
determining this question. The Voisins experimented with a power-
ful electric fan, capable of generating a very swift current of air, in
front of which they placed linen surfaces mounted on frames with
various curves. They weighted these and then measured the reaction
of the air current on the surfaces. This method of experiment led
them to select the degree of curve adopted on all their machines, par-
ticularly those for Delagrange and Farman.

Let us now examine the working of the Wright machine. This
machine is of the type whose balance is governed by the pilot. The
aviator has in his hands two levers. The left one controls the front
balancing planes, or horizontal rudder, and this lever is constantly
in motion. They are movements of very short amplitude (85 centi-
meters forward and 35 centimeters backward, a total amplitude of
only 70 centimeters), and that is sufficient to govern the pitching
tendencies of the machine. The operation of this requires an atten-
tion so close that the least slip would be fatal. It is similar to oper-
ating the handle bars of a bicycle, moving to the right or left to
retain the balance. The right-hand lever controls the vertical rudder
and the warping of the wings. If the machine leans to one side,
the operator increases the inclination of the wing on that side and
this rights his machine. The simultaneous movement of the rear
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. 158

vertical rudder prevents the apparatus from changing its direction,
as it would tend to do on account of the greater resistance endured
by the wing that is warped.

Great fears of fatalities were expressed when experiments in
aviation were first undertaken, and I have frequently heard well-
meaning persons say: “ But there is no future for aviation, because it
is so dangerous. You can rise, but you can not descend; you may
ride in a machine sustained in the air only by virtue of its great
speed. To descend, you must slow down, and since the machine will
no longer be sustained in the air, you will fall. Even though you are
flying only at a moderate height a catastrophe will surely result. If,
on the other hand, by using your horizontal rudder, you should
approach the earth, your speed still being 70 or 100 kilometers an
hour, when you reach level ground your aeroplane will come in
violent contact with the earth, as an automobile would smash into a
wall. In any case there would be a catastrophe.”

Experience has proven the falsity of these fears: Neither one nor
the other of these methods of descent is relied on exclusively. The
angle of inclination of the planes is diminished at the same time that
speed is lessened, and thus descent is made gradually, until at the
last moment, with a slight luff up in the air, the machine alights
gently, like a bird, on the ground.

From the statements of M. Painlevé these landings have been quite
sure, quite gentle, and at the same time much more easily accomplished
than certain balloon landings of which I bear sad recollections.

The second school of experimenters, those who prefer automatic
longitudinal equilibrium, has as its principal exponents the Voisin
brothers, two men who may truly be ranked among the creators of
the science of aviation in France. The followers of this school have
taken upon themselves to produce a machine which by its form alone
will be stable and will automatically retain its position of equilibrium.
They have attempted to realize this ideal so far as longitudinal
equilibrium is concerned by the great longitudinal spread they have
given to their machines. To secure transversal equilibrium they have
utilized quite happily the ideas of Chanute and Hargrave, embody-
ing the use of compartments.

Santos Dumont, first of all, had an apparatus built composed of six
sustaining compartments and one compartment for steering and bal-
ancing, but the large number of vertical sides was superfluous, for
these serve only to make the machine more stable and do not aid in
sustaining it; consequently they are dead weight and useless. This
school has retained the general idea of Santos Dumont, but has
greatly simplified it. For instance, the principle of the compartment
is still found in the Voisin aeroplane, but the compartment is reduced
to useful dimensions, We likewise find the characteristic balancing
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

compartment, the question of the surface area of which is an impor-
tant one. Asin the Santos Dumont type, it is placed well to the rear
of the center of gravity, but it is fixed. It would appear that in this
class of machines there is secured perfect automatic stability. There
are no lateral oscillations. Even at speeds of 70 kilometers an hour
the balance remains perfect, since speed itself enhances the stability.
Some experimenters, however, still object that the compartment offers
a great resistance to the turning of the machine.

In this connection I beg leave to recall the following incident:

Wright is not the only aviator who has made flights with a fellow-
passenger. French aviators have carried passengers on several oc-
casions. Farman in particular, at Ghent, made a flight of 1 or 2
kilometers with M. Archdeacon, vice-president of the Ligue aérienne.
At Mourmelon Farman repeated this exploit in company with M.
Painlevé, although in this case, owing to lack of room, M. Painlevé
hung onto the frame and, as he says, nearly on M. Farman’s back.
In spite of the abnormal position of the passenger, however, the ma-
chine preserved a perfect equilibrium.

It is much easier to manage this machine than the one whose equi-
librium is controlled, since we have here only the front balancing
planes and the vertical rudder to manipulate. There are no levers,
but a simple automobile steering wheel moving in two directions—one
of rotation, which governs the vertical rudder, and a sliding forward
and backward in a groove of the whole steering gear to govern the
front horizontal rudder. There is nothing to do when sailing straight
ahead, and it is necessary to use the balancing planes only to rise.
To descend, one slows the engine.

This is a theoretical demonstration. In actual practice those who
have managed these machines have certainly evidenced great coolness
and have accomplished a very delicate task. The delicacy of the
task is caused chiefly by the poor action of our present-day motors.
-As soon as the ideal motor is attained the French aviators may secure
as satisfactory results as the Americans. It is hardly probable that
we shall witness any agreement between the two schools of aviators.
In fact, those who favor governed equilibrium have realized a machine
whose flight is analogous to that of a bird, while those who prefer
automatic equilibrium are arriving nearer the form of flight of an
arrow. [ach class of experimenters has striven toward a different
ideal, and each has secured a satisfactory result. One class should
not be criticised to the detriment of the other, but both should be
praised without reserve.

The Wrights and the Voisin brothers are not the only aviators, for
to-day in France they are so numerous that it is impossible here to
name them all. New experimenters come to the front daily, each
filled with laudable enthusiasm, Certain names, however, force them-
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. 155

selves upon our attention: That of M. Robert Esnault-Pelterie, well
known for his monoplane with warpable wings, and for his excellent
R. E. P. motor, and also the names of the untiring Blériot, of Gastam-
bide, of Pischoff, and of Zens.

Among those experimenting with biplanes I may mention Dela-
grange, Farman, Ferber, who with a 1904 machine nevertheless in
1908 won the third prize for the 200-meters contest at Issy-les-Moli-
neaux, Goupy with his triplane, and finally Moor-Brabazon, in whom
should be placed the greatest confidence.

The balance sheet for the year 1908 shows great advancement. It
was only on January 13 that the record for a kilometer was established
by Farman at Issy-les-Moulineaux, in one minute and twenty-eight
seconds. On March 21 he beat his record for 2,004 meters in three
minutes and thirty-nine seconds. Delagrange, on April 11, at Issy,
covered 3,925 meters in six minutes and thirty seconds. ‘Then he went
to Italy and twice in succession—on May 30 and June 22—flew for a
quarter of an hour. He returned to France, and after a well-earned
period of rest, during which Farman in his turn broke the record for
a quarter of an hour (prix Armengaud, in July), he covered—on Sep-
tember 6, at Issy—24,125 meters in twenty-nine minutes, fifty-three
and three-fifths seconds. How barely he missed a half hour!

Delagrange is a veteran aviator. He had his machine built in 1906.
On three occasions he has made flights of a quarter of an hour, even
before Farman, a half an hour at Issy, and since then he has on three
occasions flown for half an hour, twice breaking Wright’s record,
when Wright lengthened the time of his flights.

Wilbur Wright, as is well known, began his flights in France in
the middle of the summer of 1908, and in his first trials proved
himself a master. It is true that he has experimented a long time,
but we should bow before the commendable spirit he has shown and
admire his perseverance and courage. More recently Wright flew for
two hours, covering more than 100 kilometers.

The greatest honors at the end of the year 1908 will probably not
go to French machines, but they have accomplished so much, and
have made such rapid progress that we can well have confidence in
them. Delagrange covered 24,125 meters and Farman 27,000. We
may say, in general, especially since the two admirable flights of
Farman and Blériot, that aviation has now become a_ practical
science.?

*Since the first publication of this paper our prophecies have been amply
fulfilled. Although the Voisin biplanes have not succeeded in beating the
Wright records, they have at least proved their worth in daily flights varying
from 15 to 50 kilometers. The trials of Santos Dumont in his new small mono-
plane, La Libellule, should also be mentioned, as well as the remarkable flights
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

There are still, to be sure, certain important questions to be settled,
among others that of proper motors, a subject in which automobile
manufacturers have not as yet taken special interest. More attention
is now, however, being paid to motors in France, for the advent of
the motor used by the Wrights has roused us from our apathy. Thus
far we have only seen at work the Antoinette and R. E. P. motors.
Renault has built an air-cooled motor which still needs certain im-
provements. The Dutheil, Chamers, and Anzani motors are also de-
serving of mention.

Finally, at the exhibition this year there was opportunity to exam-
ine some new models, which in principle seem interesting, but of
which nothing can be said until we have seen them actually work in
the air. At present the motor question remains to be settled, and
surely will be in 1909. It is the weak point in French flying
machines. Ifa machine can fly for 24 kilometers, with a good motor
there is no reason why it should then stop, unless it be to renew the
supply of fuel, oil, or water. Our motors, however, so often fail
through a tendency to miss the spark, or through the breaking of a
valve, or the heating of a bearing. As soon as our motors for flying
machines are as perfect as those used in present-day automobiles, we
shall be able to fly at will.

And this is not all; we should likewise secure a more efficient use of
sustaining surfaces. We should keep constantly in mind, following
the advice of M. Tatin, the fact that the aeroplane is a projectile, and
should strive in every possible way to decrease resistance to progress
through the air. In the aeroplane of Santos-Dumont, built in 1906,
there was used a motor of 100 horsepower, Voisin had one of 50 horse-
power, Robert Esnault-Pelterie one of 35 horsepower, and Wright’s
engine is about the same power. Messrs. Koechlin and Pischoff have
succeeded in lifting a monoplane and its aviator with a motor of
only 16 horsepower. These men are now building in their shops an
aeroplane which should fly with a 12-horsepower motor. We can not,
however, be certain that it will rise, though the principle is correct.*
At any rate, it seems probable that the aeroplanes of the future will
be driven by motors of not more than 20 horsepower.

The use of such high power is at present not advantageous, for the
propellers are very difficult to construct, and they undergo a very fast
rotation at speeds generating a centrifugal force that occasionally

in May, 1909, at Chalons, of Latham, who, with his very successful monoplane
Antoinette, from the Levavasseur shops, accomplished flights of over an hour’s
duration, at an average speed of SO kilometers an hour, during rain storms and
heavy winds. His machine, of 50 horsepower, and carrying one or two pas-
sengers, is the most efficient machine we now have. Blériot at the present time
is trying out a machine for four passengers (June, 1909).

4 Since been tried at Jurisy without great success (June, 1909).
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. SY!

plays havoc with them. The circular traction, even in a light-weight
propeller may be enough to shatter it or to tear out one of its blades.
On the other hand, this circular traction gives a great rigidity to the
materials used, inasmuch as the speed of rotation, being considerable,
permits the use of propellers of very thin wooden blades, or of sheets
of aluminum so thin that at rest they are actually supple.

M. Chauviére has specialized in the study of this phase of the
question. He has built propellers of turned wood, that are quite
novel.

This, however, is not the whole problem. At present we are using
propellors with short pitch and a high speed, which do not give
good results. Judging from our experience with steamships, this is
because the short pitched propeller, turning too rapidly, creates a
neutral space or vacuum in front of it and therefore does not take
full hold of the medium in which it turns. In water it turns in
its place without hardly advancing; this is what is called in French
the phenomenon of “cavitation.” If the pitch be increased, there
is generated a reversing force which can not be neglected even with
the great inertia of aeroplanes. On the other hand, without altering
the pitch of the propeller the efficiency may be enhanced by increasing
its diameter, and the consequent volume of air upon which it acts.
But here we encounter still another difficulty that arises from the
necessary position of the driving apparatus in the flying machine, a
position determined by other mechanical considerations, and this diffi-
culty is embodied in the fact that a propeller’s diameter must be so
limited that it will not touch the earth when the machine is on the
ground.

M. Voisin, who is as well informed as anyone on this subject, has
mentioned having noticed in single long-pitched propellers, a partial
elimination of the reversing force by the reaction of the spiral of
air on the posterior compartment of the aeroplane; but nevertheless
there is a marked tendency among aviators, which will probably be
realized during the year 1909, to use two long-pitched propellers
turning slowly.

To come into popular use, the aeroplane should satisfy three neces-
sary conditions. It should be easy to manage, it should not be too
expensive, and finally it should be of some actual service.

We may already say that the machines are not extremely difficult
to manage, and that, therefore, is not a condition at which we should
stop. M. Delagrange is a sculptor; he had never had experience in
aviation and yet he quickly attained very satisfactory results. And,
if M. Voisin is to be believed, M. Moor-Brabazon made even more
remarkable a debut.

Apprenticeship must certainly be longer in the Wright machine.
Mr. Wright has undertaken to teach pupils in three months. One of
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

these pupils, the Comte de Lambert, now understands the working
of the apparatus, but always makes his flights in company with
Wright, who has not yet dared let him fly alone. It is true that
with this type of machine, there must be accuracy of manipulation
out of the ordinary to avoid ever-possible accidents. It is to be
noted also that the Wright machines have not yet flown elsewhere
than over open fields.

As to the cost of the machines, it is at once evident that aeroplanes
will be much less expensive than automobiles, for all that an aeroplane
needs are surface areas of cloth*or of aluminum, a motor, and a pro-
peller. There are no complicated gears made of special steel, for
changing the speed and the differential, and there are no expensive
pheumatic tires.

A machine of the Wright and Voisin model now costs 20,000 francs,
or about $4,000, but this price may be lowered. Competition will
contribute to reduce the cost and we already have manufacturers who
undertake to furnish machines to be delivered after trial for 5,000
francs, or $1,000.. I believe that this will be the common price for
most aeroplanes in the future. In order, however, that aeroplanes
may be of reasonable cost, there must be a demand for them, and to
create a demand there must be a need for them.

From now on, from the point of usefulness, it is evident that flying
machines will render extraordinary service. They will permit direct
and rapid transportation anywhere, and one need no longer hesitate
to visit lands that to-day are difficult of access2 * * * Direct
transportation is evident for there are no obstacles in the way; but as
to the possible speeds to be attained, that is an open question.

It is certainly possible to obtain very great speeds with an aero-
plane. The action of an illimitable force, that of gravity, is at our
disposal as soon as the machine is lifted above the ground, and
it is always possible to convert into speed the accumulated potential
energy, which is proportional to the weight of the machine and the
altitude attained.

At the present time the machines do not rise high enough to apply
this method of conversion of power. They move forward only
through the speed of their propellers. Blériot has thus reached 76
kilometers an hour, and Farman 78 kilometers an hour. These are
medium speeds. Blériot has attained on certain occasions speeds
greater than 100 kilometers an hour. During the year 1909 we shall
certainly realize the speed of 200 kilometers an hour, and ten years

“Tambert has since flown perfectly alone. Tissandier is a master and has
flown for more than an hour; Capt. de Girardville as well, and Delagrange is
learning.

6 Hubert Latham is learning aviation to explore Africa.—June, 1909.
AVIATION IN FRANCE—JOURDAIN. 159

from now 300 kilometers may be attained. These figures? are those
of M. Painlevé, member of the Academy of Sciences.

There remains to be considered one other important question. It
is not enough that machines be inexpensive, for if there be too great
risk to safety people will not make use of them. There must be a
certain degree of security. I have heard it said: “The aeroplane
has made trips all right, but you are at the mercy of your motor.
What will happen if your motor fails to spark, a thing which is possi-
ble at any moment? Suppose you are flying over a city, what would
you do?” The aeroplane, say some persons, should therefore fly only
above rivers, plains, and highways. What interest would there be
under such limitations?

As a matter of fact, if the motor stops accidentally, the aeroplane
does not fall; it descends as I have said, along the line of an inclined
plane, and the angle at which it will descend depends largely on the
perfection of the machine and the skill of the pilot. We can admit,
generally, that the ratio of the height of the fall to the course covered,
measured on a horizontal projection is about 1 to 7, and within a
year the ratio of 1 to 10 will surely be attained. Thus the aeroplane,
stopped at a height of 100 meters, has at least five or six hundred
meters to descend in, not only directly in front but to the right or
the left. The machine will therefore be in the center of a circle of
at least a kilometer in diameter. It would be quite extraordinary if
a suitable place to land could not be found within such limits. (I
do not include the hypothesis of soaring, which is beyond the scope
of this discussion.) The answer simply is, that if there is fear of a
failure of the motor in crossing over cities one should keep at a
reasonable height. * * *

“Not yet confirmed by experiments.—June, 1909.
nt

is

WIRELESS TELEPHONY.

[With 20 plates. ]
By R. A. FrESSENDEN.?

PREFACE.

The discussion of the theory, practical operation, and possibilities
of wireless telephony is facilitated by first briefly considering the
history of the development of wireless signaling generally.

BRIEF HISTORY OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF WIRELESS SIGNALING.

Introduction. preparing this note it has been considered best,
for the sake of accuracy, to refer to published results, such as scientific
articles or theses or patent specifications. For the sake of brevity,
references to work done in repetition of previously published work
have asa rule been omitted. So far as possible, the expression of per-
sonal opinion has been avoided in this section of the paper, the object
being to gather’ together in concise form the facts known in regard to
the development of the art. With the exception of Munk’s original
paper, which could not be obtained, all references have been verified
by consulting the original publications, a work of some labor, and
if any omissions or mistakes have been made, data for their correction
will be much appreciated.

ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF Op or DAMPED WAVE-COHERER Meriop
(eERIOD 1838-1897).

Joseph Henry, to whose work the development of wire telegraphy
owes so much, was the first (1838-1842) to produce high frequency

“Copyright, 1908, by A. I. E. E. Reprinted, by permission, from Proceed-
ings of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Vol. XXVII, No. 7, July,
1908, New York.

>A paper presented at the Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the American
Institute of Hlectrical Engineers, Atlantic City, N. J., June 29, 1908.

161
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1908.

electrical oscillations, and to point out and experimentally demon-
strate the fact that the discharge of a condenser is under certain con-
ditions oscillatory, or, as he puts it, consists “ of a principal discharge
in one direction and then several reflex actions backward and for-
ward, each more feeble than the preceding until equilibrium is
attained.” @

This view was also later adopted by Helmholz,’ but the mathemat-
ical demonstration of the fact was first given by Lord Kelvin in his
paper on “ Transient electric currents.” ¢

In 1870 Von Bezold discovered and experimentally demonstrated
the fact that the advancing and reflected oscillations produced in con-
ductors by a condenser discharge gave rise to interference phenomena.*

Profs. Ehhu Thomson and E. J. Houston in 1876 made a number
of experiments and observations on high frequency oscillatory
discharges.¢

In 1883 Professor Fitzgerald suggested at a British Association
meeting’ that electromagnetic waves could be generated by the
discharge of a condenser, but the suggestion was not followed up,
possibly because no means were known for detecting the waves.

Hertz’ discovered a method of detecting such waves by means of
a minute spark-gap, and before March 30, 1888, had concluded his
remarkable series of researches, in which for the first time electro-
magnetic waves were actually produced by a spark-gap and radi-
ating conductor and received and detected at a distance by a tuned
receiving circuit.

Hertz changed the frequency of his radiated waves by altering the
inductance or capacity of his radiating conductor or antenna, and
reflected and focused the electromagnetic waves, thus demonstrating
the correctness of Maxwell’s electromagnetic theory of light.

Lodge later in the same year read a paper on the “ Protection of
buildings from lghtning,”’” before the Society of Arts, in which
he described a number of interesting experiments on oscillatory
discharges.

Great interest was excited by the experiments of Hertz, primarily
on account of their immense scientific importance. It was not long,
however, before several eminent scientists perceived that the property

« Scientific writings of Joseph Henry, Smithsonian Institution.

6 Helmholz, ‘“ Erhaltung der Kraft,’ Berlin, 1847.

¢ Kelvin, Philosophical Magazine, June, 1853.

@Von Bezold, Poggendorff’s Annalen, 140, p. 541.

€ Journal Franklin Institute, April, 1876.

f Witzgerald, “On a method of producing electromagnetic disturbances of
comparatively short wave lengths.” Report of British Association, 1888.

9 Hertz, “ Hlectric waves.”

h Lodge, Society of Arts, 1888,
WIRELESS TELEPHONY—FESSENDEN. 163

possessed by the Hertz waves of passing through fog and mate-
rial obstacles made them particularly suitable for use for electric
signaling.

Prof. Elihu Thomson, in a lecture delivered at Lynn, Mass., on
“Alternating currents and electric waves,” in 1889, suggested
this use.

Sir William Crookes in the Fortnightly Review for February, 1892,
discussed the matter in some detail. I quote his statement in full,
as it shows what a clear conception he had of the possibilities and
obstacles to be overcome:

Here is unfolded to us a new and astonishing world, one which it is hard to
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
conceive should contain no possibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
Rays of light will not pierce through a wall, nor, as we know only too well,
through a London fog. But the electrical vibrations of a yard or more in wave
eonceive shonld eontain no nossibilities of transmitting and receiving intelligence.
