aie #6
Site Cet on

“gf 8 & &
“e As Cts fe te
r we fe fe ff K

NCR

i tf )
BC ‘sw BD eB
oka ras

See
Beet 8

Se ne 8

ras ananeeN
| e yf

_
ae ae i

whe) FOE

Be tee

"eb & Ay wy ,

&

LAA 2

feb & Pe ®

oe 5
Heat

D
fe %

7 . Mae ie
cata hes et ®

" ae. e tit e

Ls
oe
e

ft § .
be DY o a of Le oO, re

FP:
1

ony s

fh fe
iy ie

-

\f

war pf # * o ¥ ow wD
* fo oe le ® ® |

oe

ie
tS

A

%

“i
‘a

&

¥

‘*

ie : | »
ste ie oe a ¢ & ‘ ‘ a tg ee 8 le . ie :

ee a 2 *
YY FO Y f. a PG

y
os

*

\F

te

(

: 1,3)
ee ds en
aD aT a a
Pal: real ed Pa
OP ey Kee en,

arn! t

Vhs.
f
Ny

STUY at
Te tear 2)

ue oP ye "
pie a ;

We
aria
oA

‘

‘pun

ANA

Pram halt)
Nh WyAls wae

a yo

a)

| 4
t we

aA xn lit aa
ie Ney 3 Le
Why i r
rates

, hae

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1920

(Publication 2622)

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT RRINTING OFFICE
1922
: oe
|

GMA gATUTIAANIKS 2AOVTAAAIO.
MOITUTITEM] AHT YO WOITIGMOD
Of AVUL OUIGAA HAaY ART f08

i | ine AOTC OMITMRAS ‘CHaMHY

it. a

LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1920.

SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION,
Washington, April 13, 1921.
To the Congress of the United States:
in accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1920. I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D,. Watcort,
Secretary.
3
«ao POYEDAe TO CHACK BRT TO THOMA TAU
amak HE SCOT DUICUR Shaul iY OW MOLTO TETEUE

ey lhe , i : ¥ \

R00

NLL LOR
et)

CONTENTS.

Page,

Letter from the secretary, submitting the annual report of the Regents

iE) CCLON aS ES SR SN EE SN a OS SS PS RES ees SM he 3:

MOTLeCHESIOf ENG TCDORE-~ Maida sewet mene Be eg 5

PEELE aE CLE PSS Si SO ee 6 EES PE gre a te salt oD fs

Gener. Subiects of. the anneal Teport 2 ease) se 9

Onicralsiof, thenstitution and its branches..252¢2. 28-2) 1i

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Remit Esonian, Institution, — = ses 2 seem ie 8 eye eee Eee als!
ihe Ghste paSbMen Tes se. 3 ek eee A Se See 13
RhevBorrd. of Rerentg.a nc nes 3. bo bo oe 14
General considerations __________ Be NS 5 PR SE At eS Se a eee 14
LOE ECT AT G”eS Ge te eee ee ae eee ee oenes es weer <3 8: uae eee eee eee eee 16
Researches and explorations:

Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies_________-_____ 19
Paleontological nerd work 2.2 ee es EN ERS 19
The Collins-Garner French Congo Expedition___________________ 20
The! Smithsonian. African, Pxpeditions.{=-—-— =. — += ee 20
Australian “xpeditionys 5.95. 2e20 2 aes et Te 21
Anthropological researches in the Far East_-_---------__--___- er
Botanical, explonation sin ¢elaah, ae sete ga ge Ale
Botanieal expedition..to..British Guiana.) 23
Botanical exploration in Glacier National Park, Mont __________~_ 24
Botanieal explorationgin,.amaien,. 2 50405 ae Ae Pe 25
Ex DplOraALiens, iN, Santo. Omin gO = — Fp 5 oS ° seks a es 25
PPG GUO ya ew OE CE tt ee pa 40)
Cimehonar Botanical Stato: 2 ks aE ER od Ne hp a 26
Exhibition of South American historical documents______________-_- 27
Researeh in? Cropieal "AMerviCAa ress 2 | we Si ape epee a 27
DEALT Get EONS ose aa ee oe SE ge gee nce ee ge PA
ab eeaiyy hee De Eee 2 NP ae ene te ot ot 29

1 NCH RO 0S J LB BW STE a RE REO, Sy Wen OR 5 MSA UNS Tar ie Fe waned ee eae 29

Buream, ots American: Wthnolopy 26a. ARIES ee Pn 8 eae ge 31

LT SY OG Wy ay ce HAR Bhs) 0 0 2s ea RAS DS ieee ep gerne 32

NAtIOne pANOlO PI Gal Par lk = ss ee ae Eg So DRS one oe 33

SLO DNY SICH ODSEEVALOLY — = = be 2 py a ee ge 34

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________________ oD

BESS ESET NY ye a pee SE ee et 36

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum____---___-___ 37

2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology____-----_-__- ay §
3. Report on the International Exchanges____________________- 73
4, Report on the National Zoological Park __________-___--___~ 85
5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory__----------------- 101
6. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_ 108
Rese port ON neni phair = cnet eee eS ee ee 112
Se eporiy ON: PUD Mes iON sacs ek SO eee 117
6 CONTENTS.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND BEGENTS.

Page.
Report.of Hxecutive: Committees sso eee ee ae 123
Proceedings: OF Board Of sever CM tse eee eae ee ae eee 127
GENERAL APPENDIX.

Studying the sun’s heat on mountain peaks in desert lands, by C. G.
Jan) 0) 070) ISS eR Seg ESS ea rs mead Ra AN ee aN a ME yh ae AN 145
The habitability of Venus, Mars, and other worlds, by C. G. Abbot_______ 165.
(GALWAY PSTD OTH) oh dat & Kegel & BAe Db be 6) seaplane emia ricnectes «Leeman reper a asad a eal lk 173
A bundle of meteorological paradoxes, by W. J. Humphreys_____________ 188

The determination of the structure of crystals, by Ralph W. G. Wyckoff_ 199
Dr. Aston’s experiments on the mass spectra of the chemical elements,

Vy tel athe bat aLS VOLE Koy ove ontyenl Orval Craw] 0) 76 resent lle see Nh as tL a a eee aS Lid bes 2238
VATE barat Se) ON i Agee Dead & BT oy bret ogy oVeeree ne ame ene eA POL SDNY Bes ES ARE URS plan Ned ae os 241
Soil acidity—its nature, measurement, and relation to plant distribution,

| ON fuel Svc ee ead mh 4k WY) i eve a a cage eat lef a al a 247
The chemistry of the earth’s crust, by Henry S. Washington ___________ 269
Major causes of land and sea oscillations, by E. O. Ulrich_____________ 321
HEALY OZO0a, OL MOSS ANLMELS. Dy ks SA SSLe Tae ae aeeinee eeeeteene Lae eens 339
ithe horned dinosaurs, by Charles WW. Gilmoress2= 2s es ee 381
Rhythmemn nature: bya ho W.-Wleatteliy ses se ae eae nate eee tee eee ee 389
Parasitism and symbiosis in their relation to the problem of evolution,

fig ernie Ci a ey Ss a ah ne ee eee 399
Local suppression of agricultural pests by birds, by W. L. McAtee________ 411
The oceult Senses in birds, by Herbert HW. Beck#2- 22> =a 4389
Adventures in the life of a fiddler crab, by O. W. Hyman_______________ 443
aHe | SCHSES OL IMSECES Dy INT Li, MCI OOS es ee en ee er ee 461
The resplendent shield-bearer and the ribbed-cocoon-maker: Two insect

inhabitants of the orchard, by R. E. Snodgrass_____-______-_-__-___- 485
The origin of insect societies, by Auguste Lameere____________________- 511
The botanical gardens of Jamaica, by William R. Maxon___-____________ 523

Narcotic daturas of the Old and New World; an account of their remark-
able properties and their uses as intoxicants and in divination, by

ACAD DES Wo aig] DAGNST 0a 05 G(0 Pielipasanelaslealg brutes pe dadic a aerate ta ISTE NLD bea fe ee 5387
Effect of the relative length of day and night on flowering and fruiting

of plants, by" W.-W. Garner and: El. AsAlior d=! sees Saree ee eee 569
Fire worship of the Hopi Indians, by J. Walter Fewkes_____-__-_________ 589
Racial groups and figures in the Natural History Building of the United

States National’ Museum, by Walter Hougche=— 611
Notes on the dances, music, and songs of the ancient and modern Mexi-

GAULT By ANY ers Ge) Gy a ne a a a ee ee ee 657

The Ralph Cross Johnson collection in the National Gallery at Wash-
ington, Ds Cp by Georges .: OSes eae ee tee a Sa eee ee eens 679
LIST OF PLATES.

Tracing page.
Secretary’s Report:
2) Sy ee Le Eee ee Are 50
Sun’s Heat (Abbot):
Le LEEW WoT 7 lash ele ha Sele anal crea 148
PI Geme eee ee eee Ree eR! 154
ites, fei eee 156
EASY ey gf a ae IRS a 158
TONS Gee ee es 160
Venus, Mars, and Other Worlds
(Abbot) :
LEE ICS: 1 Pea Be RIP ae eae 165
12 GTUSS Eta ee 168
Structure of Crystals (Wyck-
off) :
PANE. et sea 200
iste (a4 Sets Ei ere cided hte 206
PASTeMG eS = Ba ee ee 210
le Gh eh Ge ed abe ee eae ae 213
Mass Spectra (Aston) :
LEAT P'S sdk Boke eh agree ee i 235
Soil Acidity (Wherry) :
| EUG ced ee ae ne oe en 252
CSE SAA BNR a re eR 268
Bryozoa (Bassler) :
Ge S gla eee ee 380
Horned Dinosaurs (Gilmore) :
PLATES) AEs wo! Ak ea 388
Suppression of Pests by Birds
(McAtee) :
erate dye. sateen Pou ke 414
ate Sa es 422
PR ash ena sil Yl 430°
Fiddler Crab (Hyman):
2A ri} es in (et ee ee 450
SANT Pei, RIES oe ee ee 452
LET ETW etsy 71 2 Conon aaa a Mane 456
Senses of Insects (McIndoo) :
21 eM Le eae See ene we ee 466
Two Orchard Insects (Snod-
grass):
12 NISC ps (5 eo se Rae re EN 510

Facing page.

Botanical Gardens of Jamaica
(Maxon) :
PIaLeS Al 20 isa ee es
Daturas (Safford) :
Plates! fais ee 2 a oa
Effect of Light on Plants (Gar-
ner & Allard):

| 2) EM te A te Sore el | Rene A
PlteSr oOo 6) ek, eee
PAT OSS Parga ce ea
Plates Qa0) Sees sa Ae
Plates 23 see eet
Racial Groups (Hough):
| Sills 2s Bea Ee pa ee PS
PATS ieee ee ee
IRTATESTO: DIE: Se nya eee
PER eS la Grae eee
Plates 7=20 tee ie 1 tae ay
PISteS 22 Spa ee
Plates 29-3
PIStES SO; co O ee eee
WEP AMIEC Gy, Robes Soe et
Plates: 39-43 8.0 ee
Plates 43-48 see ee
tates 40-52) eee
PIateShOo He eee ee
Plates HOG 2
Plates Go-682 2222 es
Plates: 69-74 2 is
PIRES (bs Oss 32-2 Ba ae
PISteR ie OO jee ave ke ae
Plates (SiIS87 220. 2-8 2b ee
Mexican Dances (Genin):
Plates =10 23 a ee
Johnson Collection (Rose) :
Pintes i204) 22 A ee a

536

568
op ged y ie oy

ieSet yt eed

+f eonye WL)

$
reset

as ne ine

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1920.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1920, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for the
year ending June 30, 1920.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1920.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous me-
moirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1920.

i]
TAA.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

June 80, 1920.

Presiding officer ex officio—Woopvrow WILSON, President of the United States.
Chancellor—Epwarp DouGctAss WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Woovrow WItson, President of the United States.
THomaAs R. MArsHArt, Vice President of the United States.
Epwarp Douerass WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
BAINBRIDGE Corpy, Secretary of State.
Davin F. Houston, Secretary of the Treasury.
NEWTON DIEHL BAKER, Secretary of War.
A. MiTcHELL PALMER, Attorney General.
ALBERT SIDNEY BurLESON, Postmaster General.
JOSEPHUS DANIELS, Secretary of the Navy.
JOHN BARTON PAYNE, Secretary of the Interior.
Epwin THomAS MEREDITH, Secretary of Agriculture.
JOSHUA WILLIS ALEXANDER, Secretary of Commerce.
Wit1t1aAmM BaucnHop WILsoN, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Epwarp DoucLass WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
THOMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Henry Casot Loper, Member of the Senate.
CuaArtes §. THomaAs, Member of the Senate.
Mepirtt McCormick, Member of the Senate.
LEMUEL P. PApGeTt, Member of the House of Representatives.
FRANK L. GREENE, Member of the House of Representatives.
Joun A. Eiston, Member of the House of Representatives.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES F’, CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Henry WHITE, citizen of Maryland.
Rosert S. BrRookines, citizen of Missouri.
Executive committee—GroRGE GRAY, ALEXANDER uu BELL, Henry WHITE.
Secretary of the Institution—CHARLES D, WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—C, G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—HaArry W. DORSEY.
Accounting and disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMs.
Editor—wW. P. TRUE.
Assistant librarian.—PavuL BROCKETT.
Property clerk.—J. H. Hii. :

11
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926.
THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio -—CHARLEs D. WALcorTT, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Administratiwe assistant to the Secretary, in charge.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WIti1AmM H. Hotmers, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL:

Curators.—PAUL BartscH, R. S. Basster, T. T. BELoTE, AUSTIN H. CLARK,
I’. W. CLARKE, F. V. CoviLtgE, W. H. DaLt, WALTER Houcn, L. O. Howarp, ALES
HrpiiéKa, Nein M. Jupp, FREDERICK L. LEwTon, GERRIT S. MILLER, Jr., CARL W.
MiITMAN, RoBert RIDGWAY.

Associate curators—J. M. ALpRicH, C. W. GILMORE, W. R. MAxon, CHARLES
W. RicHmon»D, J. N. Rose, WALDo L. Schmitt, Davip WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. Hotmes.

Chief of correspondence and documenis.—H. 8S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent—W. I. ADAMS.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—QJ. S. GOLDSMITH.

Hditor.-—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—n. P. ScuppDER.

Photographer.—ArtTHuR J. OLMSTED.

Property and shipping clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

BUREAU Ok AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ciief—J. WALTER WEWKES.

Hihnologisis—JoHN P. HaArrineton, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francis LA FLESCHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES Moonry, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Hditor.— STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian. ELLA LEARY.

fliustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTHRNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief cleri:—C. W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. ©

Superintendent—NEp HOLLISTER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBorT.
Aid.—¥F. E. Fowtez, Jr.
Assistant.—L. B. ALpRIcH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—LEoNARD ©. GUNNELL.
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Cuartes D. Watcortrt,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1920.

To the Boarp or Recents oF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the annual re-
port on the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
and its branches during the year ending June 30, 1920. An account
of the affairs of the Institution itself, together with a summary of
the work of the several branches, are given on the first 26 pages of
this report, while the appendixes are devoted to more detailed ac-
counts of the operations during the year of the National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchange Service,
the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the
Smithsonian Library, the International Catalogue of Scientific Lit-
erature, and an account of the publications of the Institution and its
branches.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The. Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore con-
stituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the Presi-
dent, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

18
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.
THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of the
House of Representatives, together with six other persons other than
Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the city of
Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State,
but no two of them of the same State.” One of the regents, usually
the Chief Justice, is elected chancellor by the board, and a suitable
person is chosen by them as secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

During the year Senator Medill McCormick was appointed a regent
to succeed Senator Hollis, whose term as Senator had expired.
Representative John A. Elston was appointed to succeed Representa-
tive Scott Ferris. Representatives Padgett and Greene were reap-
pointed as regents, and Charles F. Choate, jr., was reelected a citizen
regent by the Congress. The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal
year was as follows: Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor; Thomas R. Marshall, Vice President of the
United States; Henry Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; Charles
S. Thomas, Member of the Senate; Medill McCormick, Member of
the Senate; Lemuel P. Padgett, Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives; Frank L. Greene, Member of the House of Representa-
tives; John A. Elston, Member of the House of Representatives;
Alexander Graham Bell, citizen of Washington, D. C.; George Gray,
citizen of Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of Massachu-
setts; John B. Henderson, citizen of Washington, D. C.; Henry
White, citizen of Maryland; and Robert S. Brookings, citizen of
Missouri.

The board held its annual meeting on December 11, 1919. The
proceedings of that meeting, as well as the annual financial report of
the executive committee, have been printed as usual for the use of
the regents, while such important matters acted upon as are of public
interest are reviewed under appropriate heads in the present report
of the secretary. A detailed statement of disbursements from the
Government appropriations under the direction of the Institution
for the maintenance of the National Museum, the National Zoological
Park, and other branches will be submitted to Congress by the secre-
tary in the usual manner in accordance with the law.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The usual routine operations of the Institution in the “increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men” were continued during the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

year, including a mass of correspondence with individuals and scien-
tific establishments throughout the world. It is becoming increas-
ingly difficult for the Institution with its extremely limited funds,
in the face of greatly increased costs in every phase of its activity,
to carry on effective work. However, in spite of the fact that the
Institution’s endowed funds have never been materially increased, it
has been possible in some measure to advance knowledge and publish
the results of scientific work, as noted in the following report on the
year’s activities.

It is my sad duty to note here the death during the year of Mr.
Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, an irreparable loss to the art interests
of the country. As stated in previous reports, Mr. Freer presented
his unrivaled collections of American and oriental art to the Smith-
sonian Institution in 1906, and provided $500,000 (later increased to
$1,000,000) for the erection of a suitable building to house the collec-
tion. This building is now practically completed and nearly ready
for the installation of the collections. That Mr. Freer did not live to
see the fulfillment of his splendid art gift to the Nation is greatly to
be regretted. An interesting article by Miss Katharine N. Rhoades
on the recent additions to the Freer Collections appeared in Art and
Archeology, October, 1919.

In addition to allotments for the maintenance of the Smithsonian
solar observing station at Calama, Chile, several small grants for
original research have been made from the Hodgkins fund of the
Tnstitution—one to Dr. L. G. Hoxton, professor of physics at the
University of Virginia, for research on the Joule-Thomson effect in
various gases; another to Mr. Alexander Wetmore, of the Biological
Survey of the United States Department of Agriculture, for carrying
on investigations of the body temperatures of birds; and a third to
the Austrian Meteorological Association for the purpose of aiding in
continuing the publication of the Meteorologische Zeitschrift and
for the support of the meteorological observatory on the Sonnblick.
Both of these were in danger of being discontinued on account of
lack of funds, and their cessation would have been a great loss to
meteorology.

Working also under a grant from the Hodgkins fund, Prof. Robert
H. Goddard, of Clark College, continued his researches on a multiple-
charge rocket for reaching great altitudes mentioned in last year’s
report. The early results of his experiments were published during
the year by the Institution under the title “A Method of Reaching
Extreme Altitudes,” in which Prof. Goddard showed that it would
be perfectly possible by means of his new type of high-efficiency
rocket to send recording instruments to the hitherto unknown upper
layers of the atmosphere and to provide for their safe return, thus
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

obtaining new data of the greatest interest and scientific value to
meteorology and solar physics. Prof. Goddard also showed that it
was theoretically possible to send a mass of 1 pound of flash powder
outside the earth’s attraction and to the dark surface of the new
moon, where, on impact, the flash would be visible through tele-
scopes on the earth. This interesting speculation aroused great
popular interest throughout the country, almost to the exclusion of
the immediately apparent scientific value of the experiment, namely,
the exploring of the unknown upper layers of the earth’s atmosphere.
Prof. Goddard was working on the further development of his re-
searches at the close of the year.

An important event in the art development of the country will be
the creation of the National Gallery of Art as a separate adminis-
trative unit under the Smithsonian Institution, to take effect at the
first of the coming year, instead of, as at present, a division of the
National Museum, which action is made possible through a small
appropriation in the sundry civil bill for 1921. Mr. W. H. Holmes,
at present head curator of the department of anthropology in the
Museum, will be appointed director of the National Gallery.

FINANCES.

The investments of the Institution are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States under authority
fa © OME TOSS a a Ea Bas ahi stage ae Bee tle a ee $1, 000, 000. 00

CONSOLIDATED FUND.

American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 4 per cent collateral trust

hondsi due July de sl929 2 Fe Ser ee ee ee ee 15, 680. 00
Province of Manitoba 5 per cent gold debentures, due Apr. 1,

ODD se vee eee oe eee AS ok peed hy cons pe De oo ey Ep eRe 1, 935. 00
West Shore Railroad Co. guaranteed 4 per cent first-mortgage

HONS GUC TA DOG Me ee ee ie i 5S Ne ee eee 37, 275. 00
Cleveland Electric [luminating Co. first-mortgage 5 per cent gold

bonds dtesA pe! FAG aoe t — ae Pee ee ee ee 9, 430. 00
United: Statesrfirst Biberty loan ee. tess ioe ee 200. 00
United! States second Wiberty loan =] - = aera ee eee 100. 00
United States third Liberty loane=s vise ale ee eee ee 10, 150. 00
UnitedsStates:tourth (iberty: loans.) 50. 00
WniltedeS tates: Victory Oana. a Sie ee ae 4, 341. 64
United States war-savings stamps, series of 1918_______________ 100. 00
Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co. 5 per cent notes, due July 1, 1918___ 3, 500. 00
Redeemed bonds, excess cost over par____----~------~___--___- 134. 88

25) Pe OE AE ee Ree eee ae eee ee 82, 896. 02
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

The sum invested for each specific fund and the manner in which
held is described as follows:

Pn. [vain] Commated: | rot

MEE IIEN rare Oe Cost cots os teens tana ce mere $727, 640. 00 $1,304. 00 $728, 944. 00
ighel inn. pot oho 04 os ce ae geeecen tS obdes cd 900.005] s25e. poasckiebs 500. 00
[DTA DON a ee ee sae ee See 2,500. 00 500. 00 3,000. 00
PRIpRTAS PENCPAUIING . $< oe. nt cone wc eamancas es 116,000. 00 37,275. 00 153, 275. 00
MEMOS PPCHIC TING =~. 0 oa cejc coo Soee- ao sae ake renee 100,000.00 | svassesSe<c\55-< 100, 000. 00
DUEL T SHU SS CLO Lege Seem ee ae wares oe OS eee. oe eee 590. 00 117.00 707.00
Pe EUMEPSSID ht Be ei ee sae wc eRe See tle ae 14,000. 00 16, 898. 84 30, 898. 84
ERLE SCHOO cece as emai Snel 11,000. 00 2,150. 00 13,150. 00
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund-................... 26, 670. 00 4,968. 00 31, 638. 00
Georverk Sanford fand:|. 22.222 222 3ecdh ec Se ae boo. 1,100.00 221.00 1,321.00
RGHSEMOE AIT) LING as whore se Sade hE we sess Sosa se sees Hee ESE 10, 000. 00 10,000. 00
UR BIEESMR ESTERS SUTIN CNS Bo or a a Se ea a ee 8,355.93 8, 355. $3
MMR RUPE AING SEO «oo oe ayo cin loa tiae Sogn s an earings nal nea joe EE 1,106. 25 1,106. 25

PE SN Oren eee ones ee mane et can ceva cis 1,000, 000. 00 82, 896. 02 1, 082, 896. 02

The $3,500 par value of the 5 per cent gold notes of the Brooklyn
Rapid Transit Co. are still held in the hands of receivers, no plan of

reorganization of the company having yet been decided upon.

Mr. B. H. Swales, honorary custodian, section of birds’ eggs, has
contributed an additional $300 to the Institution for the purchase of
specimens, making a total contribution of $600 since January, 1919.

Several small lots of unimproved Jand near Lowell, Mass., have
been sold, and $440.07 was realized therefrom and invested for ac-
count of the Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund.

Dr. William L. Abbott has contributed $4,000 during the year to
the maintenance of a field party, the purpose of which is to procure
archeological and natural history specimens in Australia. This sum
is in addition to an unexpended balance which Doctor Abbott had
previously furnished for similar work in Borneo and Celebes.

The Institution has received for specific activities valuable con-
tributions from Mr. John A. Roebling and the Rockefeller Founda-
tion, the amounts being $11,000 and $2,500, respectively.

Current funds not immediately required for expenditure are, when
conditions will permit, deposited on time in local trust companies and
draw 3 per cent interest per annum. The interest received in this
manner during the year amounted to $1,320.60.

The income during the year, amounting to $171,788.35, was derived
-as follows: Interest on permanent investments and other sources,
$65,651.37; repayments, rentals, publications, etc., $14,525.09; con-
tributions from various sources for specific purposes, $41,171.82; bills
receivable, $50,000; proceeds from sale of real estate, $440.07.

42803 °—22——2
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Adding the cash available July 1, 1919, $2,122.78, the total resources
for the year amounted to $173,911.13.

The disbursements, which are described in the annual report of the
executive committee, amounted to $160,606.79, leaving a balance on
deposit with the Treasurer of the United States, in cash and in bank,
amounting to $13,304.34,

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1920:

PAternAabional: exchanges] Saree we 2 tow cles seek ae Sa ee oe $45, 000
VATINE LT CAI AI EETT OUR yn Noe ee re ered ies ee atte Rew EOEMORE Opel mCi lists RAP ee 42, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______________________ 7, 500
AStrODHYSi¢al T ODSELV ato ny, 22s eg Ses ees pee I 13, 000
National Museum:
Migimitunenamaadi xt Resse els eb ale Ee 20, 000
Heating! sae Woh tiie NE ae Se 69, 715
Preservationvot collections— 224222.) ee ee Oe 300, 000
BuilGina veya sees ere a ee eed ee ae ee era oe ee 10, 000
PR OOKS eee eee Sree el gra CRE 2 A A es eee 2, 000
BROS TA Le Peat ae Diya Bs a Sa cake a A eS ey SE 500
Heating -equipment,.Airdraft ;Building S22) 9s) aia soer Tyee 14, 000
National, Zoological Parkw 5  tys ee eee 115, 000
Imerease ot compensation (Gngefinite)) 220 2) oe ee eee
Rotal ‘sfucia te ren pteany  een ha tos) we we eel eat pene EE 638, 715

In addition to the above there was included under the general ap-
propriation for printing and binding an allotment of $76,200 to
cover the cost of printing and binding the Smithsonian annual report
_and reports and miscellaneous printing for the Government branches
of the Institution.

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

Every year the Institution sends out or participates in, so far as
its limited means will permit, expeditions for the purpose of increas-
ing scientific knowledge in various parts of the world which have
been previously but imperfectly known to science. In former years
every continent and nearly every country on the globe has been vis-
ited by Smithsonian scientific explorers, and the result has been the
accumulation of a valuable mass of information on the people, fauna,
flora, geology, geography, ethnology, etc., of the various regions
visited. Many of the more important results of these expeditions
have been published by the Institution, and thereby have the chief
objects of the Smithsonian as laid down by its founder, “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men,” been carried out.

While the prevailing universal high costs have considerably re-
duced the effectiveness of the Institution’s funds for research and
exploration, nevertheless several expeditions were in the field during
the past year, and the activities of some of these are here briefly
described.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATION IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES.

Geological field work in the Canadian Rocky Mountains was con-
tinued by your secretary during the field season of 1919, with the
following objects in view: (1) The discovery of an unmetamor-
phosed, undisturbed section of the Upper Cambrian formations north
of the Canadian Pacific Railway; and (2) the collection of fossils
to determine the various formations and to correlate them with the
Upper Cambrian formations elsewhere. The region selected for
examination was the area about Glacier Lake, which was reached
through Bow Pass, down the Mistaya Creek to the Saskatchewan
River, and thence up to the headwaters of the Middle Fork.

The geological section measured is of such interest that I will de-
scribe it briefly. The rocks exposed in the highest cliffs of Mount
Forbes and Mons Peak belong to the great Carboniferous system of
rocks of this region. Below this series is a belt 1,000 feet or more
in thickness comprising the Devonian rocks, beneath which are the
strata of the Sarbach formation of the Ordovician system. Under
these again are the five formations of the Upper Cambrian series, and
at one place near Mount Murchison is a low ridge formed of strata
of Middle Cambrian age.

Special attention was given to the glaciers of which there are many
fine examples in the region. Beautiful photographs of some of these
were obtained, one showing a complete glacier from its névé to its
foot. A preliminary examination of the fossils in the formations
studied correlates them with the Upper Cambrian formations of
Wisconsin and Minnesota and the Upper Cambrian section in south-
ern Idaho, and to a lesser extent with that of the central belt of

Pennsylvania.
PALEONTOLOGICAL FIELD WORK.

Two short field trips were taken during the year by Dr. R. S. Bass-
ler, curator of paleontology, for the purpose of securing certain
specimens of fossils and rocks required for the Museum exhibition
series. During the previous year some excellent exhibition specimens
had been located in southeastern Indiana, but owing to the impos-
sibilty of securing help to get them to a freight station, it had been
necessary to leave them. This year, conditions being the same, they
were carefully wrapped in burlap and padded with a quantity of
weeds and laboriously dragged along the rails to the nearest station.
The same methcd was used in transporting to a station the specimens
found this year along a creek in the same locality, where heavy spring
freshets had uncovered some richly fossiliferous layers of rock. One
of these specimens, a slab several feet in length and width, was
crowded with impressions of the branching fossil seaweed Burtho-
trephis, and with excellent examples of the dumb-bell seaweed Ar-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

thraria. A specimen showing an assemblage of these ancient plant
remains had long been needed in the fossil-plant exhibition series in
the Museum.

Later in the year, Dr. Bassler proceeded to Dayton, Ohio, to pre-
pare for shipment to. Washington the largest entire American tri-
lobite so far discovered. The trilobite was uncovered by the pick of
a workman in the excavations for the Huffman conservancy dam,
6 miles east of Dayton. Mr. Arthur E. Morgan, chief engineer of
the Miami conservancy district, recognized the scientific value of the
fossil animal and presented it to the Institution, where it now forms
a most unique and instructive exhibit in the hall of invertebrate
paleontology of the National Museum. The specimen is of special
value since it has become the type of a new species, /sotelus brachyce-
phalus, described by Dr. August F. Foerste, of Dayton, Ohio.

THE COLLINS-GARNER FRENCH CONGO EXPEDITION.

The “ Collins-Garner expedition in the interests of the Smithsonian
Institution,” which had been ‘collecting biological material in the
Trench Congo since the summer of 1918, returned to this country
early in 1919, but the collections resulting from the expedition were
incorporated into the Museum series of African material during the
past fiscal year. Mr. C. R. W. Aschemeier, who represented the
Institution, collected and turned over to the Museum some 2,500
mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates, an invaluable
addition to the Museum collections.

THE SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION,

Last year it was announced that an expedition to Africa had been
organized to collect plants and animals needed by the Museum to sup-
plement the magnificent collections made on that continent by Col.
Theodore Roosevelt and other explorers. This expedition, under the
title of the “ Smithsonian African expedition, under the direction of
Edmund Heller in conjunction with the Universal Film Manufac-
turing Co.” sailed on July 16 on the steamship City of Benares,
arriving in Cape Town August 13. Besides Mr. Heller, the Institu-
tion was represented by Mr. H. C. Raven, who has in former years
made collections for the Smithsonian in Borneo, Celebes, and other
regions.

In the vicinity of Cape Town, Mr. Raven was able to collect only
insects and invertebrates, and from there he went to the Addo Bush,
where 19 days were spent in collecting small mammals and birds.
Going through Durban and Johannesburg, Mr. Raven spent two
weeks collecting at Ottoshoop in the Transvaal, after which he pro-
ceeded to Victoria Falls, and from there he and Doctor Shantz, who
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

was representing the United States Department of Agriculture, left
for the Kafue River region, where they camped for severa! weeks.

After spending some weeks along the Congo, they reached Lake
Tanganyika, where camp was made for about a month. The next’
stop of any length was in Uganda, where a few days over a month
was spent in collecting in the Bundogo Forest. As the whole forest
was in the sleeping-sickness area, it was necessary to get a special
permit from the district commissioner to enter it, and the native
boys engaged by Mr. Raven had to be examined by a doctor before
entering the area and again on leaving it. At the close of the year,
Mr. Raven was at Masindi, in Uganda, preparing to return to the
United States.

Only one shipment of material had been received by the end of the
year, consisting of 239 mammals and birds from southern Africa,
which, with the remainder of the specimens still to be received from
Mr. Raven, will be of great value in working up the African material
already in the Museum collections.

AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITION.

Through the continued generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, the Insti-
tution sent Mr. Charles M. Hoy to Australia for the purpose of col-
lecting vertebrates, especially those which are in danger of extermina-
tion. As the Museum at present contains only about 200 specimens of
the remarkable Australian mammal fauna, this expedition is of the
utmost scientific importance, especially since in the future it will be
impossible to secure an adequate representation of the fauna owing
to their rapid extermination.

Mr. Hoy began work in Australia about the 1st of June, 1919, and
by the close of the past fiscal year one shipment had been received at
the Museum, consisting of 240 mammals and 228 birds. The follow-
ing passages from reports and letters received from Mr. Hoy give
an idea of the conditions under which the collecting was carried on:

Nine weeks were spent in the Wandandian region (19 miles southwest of
Norwra, New South Wales), with the result of but 181 mammals and 124 birds
collected. Among the mammals 10 genera and 12 species are represented in my
collection.

The greatest agent working toward the extermination of the native animals is
the fox ; next comes the cattle and sheep men, who distribute poison by the cart-
load in the effort to reduce the rabbits. This has also caused or helped to
cause the extermination of some of the ground-inhabiting birds. Another great
agent is the bush fires which sweep over the country. These are often lit in-
tentionally in order to clear out the undergrowth and thus increase the grass.

The extermination of the native mammals has apparently gone much further
than is generally thought. Many species that were plentiful only a few years
ago are now almost, if not altogether, extinct. Diseases have also played a
great part in the extermination. The native bear died in thousands from a dis-
ease which produced a great bony growth on their heads. A mysterious disease
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

also spread through the ranks of the native cat, Dasyurus viverrinus; the
domestic cat also played a great part in their extermination. Hven adult speci-
mens of Dasyurus were often dragged in by the family cat.

It is the killing and burning of the brush by the cattlemen that does the most
to kill off the animals, and they are yearly reaching farther and farther away
from the railroads. One thing that was very noticeable was the great abun-
dance of the introduced rats. They seem to have driven out or killed off prac-
tically all the native rats, and I found them everywhere.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN THE FAR EAST.

Dr. AleS§ Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, National
Museum, made an extended trip to the Far East in the interest of
his researches on the origin of the American Indian and the peopling
of eastern Asia. While in China he assisted with the organization
of anthropological research in connection with the Peking Union
Medical College in China.

During this trip, which occupied over five months, Doctor Hrdlicka
visited Japan, Korea, Manchuria, northern China, and the border
of southern Mongolia, examining the local collections as well as the
actual populations. The results of the journey have contributed
very materially to the solution of the problems for which the trip
was made, in addition to which it was possible to arrange for ex-
changes of material, and especially to organize a nucleus for an-
thropological investigation in China.

Doctor Hrdlitka returned by way of Hawaii, where a two weeks’
stop was made for the study of the natives and of Hawaiian problems
in general.

While at Peking Doctor Hrdlitka consulted prominent foreigners,
as well as Chinese scholars, on the advisability of establishing in
Peking, or of taking steps toward the establishment there of a
“China Museum of Natural History,” which, like the United States
National Museum, would include the departments of geology, biol-
ogy, and anthropology, and which would serve as a center for inves-
tigators in these lines in China and the Far East. Before his de-
parture the opportunity was given him by representatives of several
of the ministries and other officials to make the proposal more for-
mally, with the result that a committee was to be organized for con-
sideration of the project.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN HAITI.

Through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, for many years a
benefactor of the Institution, it was possible to detail Mr. Emery C.
Leonard, aid in the Division of Plants, United States National
Museum, as botanical collector to accompany Doctor Abbott to Haiti
upon his last visit of exploration in that country, from February to
————

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

July, 1920. A collection aggregating 10,000 specimens, representing
about 2,700 collection numbers, was secured by Mr. Leonard in sev-
eral characteristic regions. This material will prove of exceptional
value and interest from the fact that, little botanical collecting hay-
ing been done in Haiti, the flora is in consequence very imperfectly
known. The field work may be summarized as follows:

After completing their outfit at Port au Prince, the point of arrival, Dr.
Abbott and Mr. Leonard proceeded by railroad to St. Mare, thence by native
fishing schooner to Gonave Island, lying a short distance off the coast. This
island, which is about 30 miles long from east to west and 10 miles broad, is
entirely of coral formation, which decomposes to form a very rich reddish soil.
Work was carried on principally upon the northern side. A low mountain range
forms the backbone of the island, intersected by occasional sharp ravines, in
which are found a very few springs. The coast is bordered by an almost un-
broken fringe of mangroves, back of which is a belt of bare saline flats. Next
in succession is a region of low arid foothills, from which the mountains rise
rather abruptly. The hills and slopes are covered with thorny thickets, chiefly
of leguminous shrubs and low trees, with cacti interspersed, but the uplands
(called La Table) open in large grassy areas, with only scattered trees and
shrubs, which afford rich pasture. About three weeks were spent on the north
side of the island, working from Anse Galette and Etroite, and somewhat later
a week on the south shore, with the small village of Pickney as base.

The second part of the exploration covered the region west and south of
Lake Saumatre. Access was easily gained by railroad from Port au Prince to
Etang, on the west shore of the lake. After a week’s collecting in the vicinity
of Etang the party traveled by boat to Fond Parisien, on the southeast shore,
and, procuring donkeys, proceeded overland to Mission, in the midst of the La
Salle Mountains, where an altitude of 2,000 meters was reached. From this
elevation down to 900 meters the slopes were sparsely covered with pines, and,
where protected from fire, with dense thickets that sheltered a luxuriant growth
of ferns. About two weeks were spent in collecting in this region.

The final portion of the field work was carried on in the region of Furcy,
which lies a short distance south of Port au Prince. The collections here were
made mostly on the wooded ridge east of Furcy on the trail to Grande Touraine.
The region is well watered and has a delightful climate, but the country about
Furcy itself has been almost entirely cleared of forests.

Of the plants collected perhaps one-third are ferns, the remaining portion con-
sisting of shrubs and herbaceous plants, among which are a considerable number
of grasses and cacti. The cacti appear to be of special interest.

BOTANICAL EXPEDITION TO BRITISH GUIANA.

Through the cooperation of the United States Department of Agri-
culture, the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University, and the New
York Botanical Garden, a trip to British Guiana was made by Dr.
A.S. Hitchcock, custodian of the section of grasses, National Museum,
Doctor Hitchcock reports:

I left New York October 4 and arrived at Georgetown, British Guiana, October
22, visiting on the way down the islands of St. Thomas, St. Croix, St. Kitts,

Antigua, Guadeloupe, Dominica, Martinique, St. Lucia, and Barbados. On the
return trip in February the islands of Trinidad and Grenada were visited. Col-
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

lections of grasses were made on all the islands. In British Guiana a general
collection of flowering plants was made, a set going to each of the contributing
institutions.

My headquarters were at Georgetown, the capital and only large city of the
colony. Here there is a good botanical garden and a herbarium of British
Guiana plants, known as the Jenman Herbarium. Prof. J. B. Harrison, the
director of science and agriculture, is in charge of the scientific activities of
the colony and rendered me very efficient aid.

The greater part of British Guiana is covered with virgin forest. The vast
savannas of Venezuela extend into the southern part of the colony. The tempera-
ture is high, 75° to 85°, according to the season, and the rainfall at Georgetown
is about 90 inches. The settlements are mainly along the coast, and travel in
the interior is by boat along the numerous rivers. The country for some dis-
tance back of the coast is low and wet. The chief industry is the raising of
sugar cane. The health of the colony is fairly good, though there is much
malaria.

The botanical results were very satisfactory. About 1,200 numbers of plants
were collected. Especial attention was given to the grasses, of which 171 species
are now known to grow in the colony,

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONT.

Mr. Paul C. Standley, assistant curator in the Division of Plants,
United States National Museum, spent about 10 weeks, from July to
September, 1919, in Glacier National Park, Mont., under the au-
thority of the National Park Service, for the purpose of studying the
vegetation of the region. A large series of photographs and about
4,000 specimens, representing over 900 species of plants, were ob-
tained, which will serve as the basis of a popular illustrated account
of the plants to be published by the Park Service, and a more com-
plete technical paper on the flora, in process of publication by the
National Museum. ‘The zonal distribution of the plants, which is of
extreme interest, is discussed briefly by Mr. Standley, as follows:

The Continental Divide, which traverses the park, has a marked influence
upon plant distribution. On the east slope, whose drainage is partly into the
Missouri River and partly into Hudson Bay, the flora is of the Rocky Mountain
type, like that of Wyoming and Colorado; while on the west slope, whose
streams drain into the Columbia River, the flora is more obviously related to
that of the Pacific coast. The forests about Lake McDonald are very dense
and are composed of unusually large trees. Although not nearly so extensive,
they are much like those of the humid regions of Oregon and Washington.

In the vegetation there are represented four of the life zones recognized by
biologists. The transition zone is indicated on the west slope by small areas of
yellow-pine timber, and east of the park are the prairies of the Blackfoot
Indian Reservation, which extend also within the park boundaries along the
stream valleys. The plants here are chiefly herbs, with a few shrubs, and they
belong mostly to species which have a wide distribution over the Great Plains.
By far the largest portion of the park is covered with the characteristic vegeta-
tion of the Canadian zone, which is the heavily forested area. Above the
Canadian zone, around timber line (6,000 to 7,500 feet), lies a narrow belt
belonging to the Hudsonian zone. The trees here are mostly low and stunted,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

and their branches frequently lie prostrate upon the ground. Above this belt,
and occupying the highest exposed slopes, lies the Arctic-Alpine zone, whose
vegetation is composed chiefly of small herbaceous plants, with a few dwarfed
shrubs, mostly willows. Many of the species of this zone are widely distributed
in alpine or arctic regions of North America, and some of them occur also in
similar situations in Europe and Asia.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN JAMAICA.

Mr. William R. Maxon, associate curator in the Division of Plants,
United States National Museum, accompanied by Mr. E. P. Killip,
aid, was detailed to field work in Jamaica in February last for the
purpose of making botanical collections in general and of securing
fern material for use in connection with a projected volume upon
the ferns of Jamaica. Over two months were spent in the island, in-
cluding a pericd of three weeks in the Blue Mountain region, with
the Cinchona Botanical Station as base. Other regions covered in-
clude Mount Diablo, Montego Bay, Mill Bank, and Seamens Valley,
and the southern border of the peculiar “cockpit country ” above
Ipswich, a wooded area of limestone “sinks.” Upward of 10,000
specimens were collected, representing about 1,700 collection num-
bers. In addition to the series to be retained by the National Museum,
nearly uniform sets of the ferns and flowering plants have been
distributed to the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University, the New
York Botanical Garden, the Field Museum of Natural History, and
the University of Illinois, all of which contributed equally to the field
expenses of the work. Sets of the woody plants and orchids have
been sent also to the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, and
to Mr. Oakes Ames, respectively, in return for similar assistance.
The lower cryptogams of the collection are in process of identifica-
tion and wil be distributed shortly.

EXPLORATIONS IN SANTO DOMINGO.

During the first three months of the fiscal year Dr. W. L. Abbott
continued his scientific investigations in Santo Domingo, stopping
at Sosua, on the north side of the island, where a search was made
for certain birds needed to fill gaps in the series already collected.
The Samana Peninsula was then explored, after which Dr. Abbott
visited the islets of Saona and Catalina, off the southeastern corner
of Santo Domingo, and concluded his investigations with a few days’
work at Lake Enriquillo.

The material collected on this trip and the previous trip ending
just before the beginning of the fiscal year was varied in character,
embracing the several groups of vertebrates as well as mollusks, in-
sects, and plants, with a plentiful series of archeological objects from
caves in the Samana district. Of birds alone, 278 study skins, 87
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

alcoholics and skeletons, and 56 eggs were collected, including birds
representing four species not hitherto possessed by the Museum and
three or four other species not previously known to occur on the
island.

LECTURES.

Hamilton fund lecture-—The Hamilton fund was placed under the
administration of the Institution by the Rev. James Hamilton in
1875, the interest to be used for “ lectures on scientific or useful sub-
jects.” Under the auspices of this fund an interesting lecture was
delivered on April 13 in the auditorium of the National Museum by
the Rev. Charles E. Jefferson, D. D., on “The old order and the
new,” in which Dr. Jefferson gave his views as to the causes which
led the world into its present unsettled condition and of the solution
of the problems presented.

Lectures for the Y. M. C, A—At the request of Dr. W. C. Little,
field secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association, a series of
lectures on scientific subjects written in a style to be instructive and
entertaining to a general audience was prepared by members of the
staffs of the Institution and its branches, for use in the educational
extension work of the association. The scheme was to have these
lectures delivered in rotation by volunteer lecturers in many different
localities in the United States, thereby reaching a large number of
people interested in keeping in touch with the advance of science
and progress in general. The lectures prepared by members of the
Smithsonian staff were as follows:

The Sun, by C. G. Abbot.

Cave Dwellings of the New and Old Worlds, by J. W. Fewkes.

The Primeval Life of North America, by R. 8. Bassler.

A Visit to the Races of Man, by Walter Hough.

In the Land of the Great Natural Bridges, by Neil M. Judd.

The Progress in Land Transportation, by Carl W. Mitman.

Antiquities of the Bible, by I. M. Casanowicz.

Strange Facts in Nature, by Austin H. Clark.

Flying Animals, by Austin H. Clark.

Interesting Animals and Birds from East Africa, by Austin H. Clark.

Hxtinct Monsters of North America, by Charles W. Gilmore.

Mammals of Ancient North America, by James W. Gidley.

CINCHONA BOTANICAL STATION,

In my report last year it was stated that negotiations had been
begun with the Government of Jamaica to renew the Smithsonian’s
three-year lease on the Cinchona Botanical Station which was can-
celed during the period of the war. This was successfully arranged
in January, 1920, and the renewed lease dated from January 1.

The station is maintained by the subscription of a number of insti-
tutions in this country for the purpose of enabling accredited inves-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oT

tigators to study the rich and interesting flora of the region. From
January 1 to the close of the year the following botanists planned
to avail themselves of the privileges of the station: Messrs. W. R.
Maxon and E. P. Killip, of the United States National Herbarium,
for work on the taxonomy of ferns and flowering plants; Mr. Fred-
erick Boughton, of Pittsford, N. Y., for collecting fungi; Dr. J. M.
Thompson, of Glasgow, for work on the ferns; and Prof. R. E.
Danforth, of Rutgers College, also for work on the ferns.

EXHIBITION OF SOUTH AMERICAN HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS.

From July 28 to August 9, 1919, there was held in the Smithsonian
Building an exhibition of South American historical documents
brought together by Sefior Don Jorge M. Corbacho, a member of the
Peruvian Parliament and delegate to the Pan American Congress.
The collection, containing official documents signed by the Spanish
conquistadores, the viceroys at Lima and the revolutionary leaders
during the wars for independence, was one of inestimable value and
was shown at the Smithsonian for the first time in North America.

RESEARCH IN TROPICAL AMERICA.

In June 1920, the National Research Council, of which your
secretary is a vice chairman, held a conference on the project of incor-
porating an institute for promoting research in tropical America,
including exploration and the establishing of laboratories and re-
search stations, and of effecting cooperation between the institutions
interested in tropical research and exploration. The membership of
the proposed institute was to consist of representatives (one each)
from institutions interested in such research, and these institutions
were invited by the Research Council to appoint representatives, but
at the close of the year replies had not been received.

PUBLICATIONS.

The Institution and its branches issued during the year 95 volumes
and separate pamphlets. Of these various publications there were
distributed a total of 143,290 copies, which includes 157 volumes and
separates of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 24,949 vol-
umes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 16,720
volumes and separates of Smithsonian Annual Reports, 81,936 vol-
umes and separates of the various series of the National Museum,
16,761 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1,958
special publications, 19 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 23 reports on the Harriman Alaska expedition, and
564 reports of the American Historical Association.
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Through its publications the Institution carries out one of its
principal objects, the “ diffusion of knowledge.” The Smithsonian
series, except the annual report, are printed from Smithsonian funds
in smal] editions for distribution principally to libraries and scien-
tific and educational establishments throughout the world. The
annual report, containing a general appendix consisting of a num-
ber of articles illustrating recent advances in nearly every branch
of science, is printed by congressional appropriation in editions of
10,000 copies and is in great demand throughout the country. The
Museum and Bureau of Ethnology publications are discussed in
detail in the reports of those branches appended to this report.

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 14 numbers were
issued, among which may be mentioned 2 papers by your secretary
on his researches in Cambrian geology and paleontology, a paper
showing the relations between the variations in solar radiation and
in the weather, based on the work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory on the solar constant of radiation, and a fourth revised
edition of the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, for which there
is a continued demand.

Allotments for printing—The congressional allotments for the
printing of the Smithsonian report and the various publications of
the branches of the Institution were practically used up at the close
of the year. The allotments for the coming year ending June 30,
1921, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution: For printing and binding the

annual reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendices,

the editions of which shall not exceed 10,000 copies______________ $10, 000. 00
(Provided, That the unexpended balance of the appropriation of

$10,000 made for this purpose in the sundry civil act approved .

July 1, 1918, is hereby reappropriated and made available during

the: fiseal “year 1920)... -* - a Ss eee ee 5, 220. 99
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-

dices, and for printing labels and blanks and for the bulletins and

proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall

not exceed 4,000 copies, and binding in half morocco or ma-

terial not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented

to or acquired by the National Museum library__-_______-_______ 37, 500. 00
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Hth-

nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau_ 21, 000. 00
For miscellaneous printing and binding:

Internationa lb Chan ees a2 ee ee ea 200. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________ 100. 00
National Zoological Park: 231 3a0 CHUN Ly Se ee ee 200. 00
Astrophysical ‘Observatory2c_-2 2 _ tert eee ater oi SN Opes 200. 00
For the annual report of the American Historical Association______ 7, 000. 00

COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The function of the Smithsonian advisory committee on printing
and publication is to consider all manuscripts offered for publication

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

by the Institution or its branches. During the year 10 meetings were
held and 93 manuscripts were passed upon. The membership of the
committee is as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of
biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, National Museum; Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief,
Bureau of American Ethnology; Mr. N. Hollister, superintendent,
National Zoological Park; and Mr. W. P. True, editor of the Smith-
sonian Institution, secretary.

LIBRARY.

The Smithsonian library received during the year 6,995 volumes
and pamphlets, distributed as follows: To the Smithsonian deposit
in the library of Congress, 4,019; to the Smithsonian office, Astro-
physical Observatory, and National Zoological Park libraries, 428;
and to the National Museum library, 2,548.

Continued use of the library’s collection of works on aeronautics
has been made by students of aeronautics, both of the United States
and of foreign countries. Forty titles were added to the collection
during the year. In the De Peyster collection, author cards have
been made for the Napoleon series and for the works on British, Ger-
man, and Italian history.

The work of the library has suffered from the fact that the appro-
priation for binding has not kept pace with the greatly increased
cost. This has reduced the number of books bound during the year
to 737, as compared with 1,322 in 1919 and 1,706 in 1918.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The congressional appropriation for the maintenance of the
Museum has remained practically the same for many years, and as a
result of the great increase, both in size and importance, of the
collections, not only has it been impossible to undertake desirable
new lines of work, but also existing work has been greatly hampered
by the necessity of observing the strictest economy. The two most
serious handicaps to the Museum in extending its usefulness to the
people of the country are lack of space for proper exhibition of its
valuable collections and an insufficient staff of expert curators. This
last has in several cases necessitated grouping wholly unlike divi-
sions under one curator, with the result that the sections in which
there is no specialist in charge must remain practically at a stand-
still.

In June, 1920, a small congressional appropriation made possible
the establishment of the National Gallery of Art as an independent
bureau under the administration of the Smithsonian Institution, in-
stead of being as previously a part of the Museum, the change to take
- effect on July 1, 1920. Mr. W. H. Holmes, head curator of the
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

department of anthropology in the Museum, will become director of
the National Gallery at the beginning of the year.

The Freer Gallery of Art was brought nearly to completion dur-
ing the year, and arrangements were made with the Office of Public
Buildings and Grounds for the construction of driveways and the
improvement of the grounds around the building. The collections
have begun to come in from the executors of Mr. Freer’s estate and
are being stored in the building until the installation can be begun.

During the past year the Museum acquired a total of 216,871 speci-
mens, classified as follows: Anthropology, 15,254; zoology, 101,554;
botany, 35,211; geology and mineralogy, 22,400; paleontology, 40,000 ;
division of textiles, 1,716; mineral technology, 627; mechanical tech-
nology, 97; and National Gallery of Art, 12. Four hundred and
ninety-five lots of material were sent to the Museum for examination
and report by members of the staff, and 4,306 duplicate specimens
were distributed for educational purposes.

The great mass of material for the Museum’s collection of objects
relating to the World War filled the space allotted to it in the Arts
and Industries Building and overflowed into the Natural History
Building and the Aircraft Building. This great collection, made pos-
sible through the hearty cooperation of the War and Navy Depart-
ments, contains material relating to practically every phase of the
war, both on land and sea. The Navy furnished much interesting
material relating to submarine warfare and other naval activities
during the war, and the War Department assembled and deposited in
the Museum exhibits illustrating military operations in every branch
of the service, including the Air Service, Ordnance, Chemical War-
fare, Quartermaster, Engineer, Medical, and Signal Corps. A full
account of this valuable and instructive collection is given in the re-
port of the administrative assistant in charge of the Museum, in an
appendix to this report.

Additions to the collections in the division of history include 226
complete uniforms of the types worn in the United States Army from
1776 to 1909; miscellaneous scientific apparatus used by Joseph
Henry (1799-1878) during the latter part of his life, the gift of his
daughter, Miss Caroline Henry; watches owned by Maj. Gen. George
B. McClellan, United States Army; swords and other military relics
of Maj. Gen. John R. Brooke, United States Army; and many other
objects of historical interest and value.

In anthropology the most noteworthy accessions were some valu-
able ethnological material collected during the period of military oc-
cupancy of the Philippines; collections made by members of the staff
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and transferred to the Mu-
seum; and a collection of nearly a hundred objects of Christian and
Buddhist religious art in wood, copper, bronze, and silver.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

The department of biology showed very gratifying results both in
number of specimens and in the scientific importance of the material
received. Through the liberality of Mr. B. H. Swales, no less than
163 species of birds new to the Museum’s collections were among the
year’s accessions and, with the continued assistance of Dr. W. L. Ab-
bott, 240 mammals and 228 birds from Australia were received as a
first installment of a collection being made there by Mr. Charles M.
Hoy. A large number of specimens were received during the year
as a result of the Collins-Garner French Congo expedition. The
divisions of insects and mollusks received important additions, and
the botanical material accessioned during the year included valuable
collections from all over the world.

In geology there was a decided increase over the previous year,
both in number of specimens and in their scientific value, including
many thousands of specimens of minerals and invertebrate fossils
received from the United States Geological Survey. The collection
of gems was overhauled and reweighed, and a handbook and cata-
logue of them prepared, which was in press at the close of the year.
One hundred sets of 85 specimens each of ores and minerals for dis-
tribution to schools were prepared.

The divisions of textiles and mineral technology received impor-
tant additions, and the division of mechanical technology was en-
tirely rearranged during the year in accordance with a new ae for
making the exhibits more instructive to visitors.

The usual large number of meetings and lectures were held in the
auditorium of the Natural History Tualdeace including the annual
meeting of the National Academy of Sciences. The total number of
visitors during the year at the Natural History Building was 422,984
and at the Arts and Industries Building 250,982. The Museum
library received during the year 1,932 volumes and 1,581 pamphlets,
bringing the total number up to 56,617 volumes and 88,690 pam-
phlets. The publications of the Museum for the year were 3 volumes
and 33 separate papers of the Proceedings; Bulletins 106 (text), 107,
108, and a small edition of 103; volume 21 of Contributions from
the National Herbarium, and the annual report for 1919.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The purpose of the Bureau of American Ethnology is to contribute
to our knowledge of racial culture and advance our appreciation of
racial accomplishment with respect to the American aborigines and
the natives of the Hawaiian Islands. Inasmuch as the material from
which we may secure this knowledge is rapidly disappearing or being
absorbed into modern life, it is urgent that the bureau carry on in-
tensive work among the American Indians to preserve for posterity
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

the unwritten literature, languages, customs, and material culture of
these most interesting people. The results of these researches are
published by the bureau, and its policy with regard to publications
is that they should be of such a nature that they may be studied with
profit by all intelligent persons and not so technical as to be of value
only to a few specialists.

Among researches along special lines conducted by the staff of the
bureau may be mentioned the study of the various fibers and foods
used by the Indians with the view of discovering a possible adapta-
tion of some of these aboriginal resources to the use of the white man.
A series of researches and publications on the habitations of the In-
dian has been inaugurated in order that they might be better known
and an accurate knowledge of them disseminated. Researches on the
music of the Indians have been carried on with gratifying results,
the themes having been incorporated in certain cases by modern
musicians in their compositions. In cooperation with the National
Park Service the bureau is engaged in the excavation and repair for
permanent preservation of prehistoric ruins and cliff dwellings of
the Indians in the national parks and other Government reservations,
such as the Mesa Verde in Colorado. These reclaimed Indian dwell-
ings and other structures have proved to be of the greatest educa-
tional value and popular interest. During the past year the bureau
excavated and repaired two. of these prehistoric structures on the
Mesa Verde, known as Square Tower House and Painted House,
which have already cast considerable light on the ethnological prob-
lems of the region.

Work was continued by members of the staff during the year on
various publications in varying degrees of completion from manu-
script to final proof, and in addition field work was carried on
among the Oneida Indians, the Seneca, the Tanoan and Kiowan, the
Fox, the Pawnee, the Papago, the Apache, and other tribes. Also
a number of archeological researches were conducted, especially in
Texas and in the southwestern United States.

One annual report and 4 bulletins were issued during the year,
while 14 publications were in press in various stages of completion.
The library of the bureau, to which 820 books were added during
the year, now numbers over 23,000 volumes and 14,000 pamphlets.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The number of packages handled during the year by the Interna-
tional Exchange Service was 369,372, weighing 496,378 pounds, an
increase of 98,512 packages and 204,460 pounds in weight over the
preceding year. This large increase is due to the fact that ship-
ments have been resumed to several countries with which relations
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

were suspended during the war. Nevertheless the number of pack-
ages handled exceeded by over 27,000 the total during 1914, the last
year before the World War.

Shipments are still suspended to certain countries where internal
conditions are unsettled or with whom peace treaties have not yet
been ratified by the United States. An exchange of publications
has been inaugurated with the Czechoslovak Republic, and, as soon
as conditions warrant, it is expected to take the same step with the
Polish Government. The prompt dispatch of foreign exchanges was
considerably hampered at times during the year by freight em-
bargoes and marine strikes. Later, however, the official character of
the exchange shipments put them among the classes of freight ex-
empt from the embargoes.

The Exchange Service continues to be of use in securing for es-
tablishments in other countries collections of scientific or other docu-
ments in this country. As an instance of this service, considerable
material bearing on American universities and on the methods of
government in American municipalities was collected and forwarded
to the counselor in charge of foreign relations of the municipality
of Prague, at his request.

For transmission to foreign countries there were received during
the year 56 full sets of United States official publications and 37 par-
tial sets, in exchange for which this country receives the official
publications of these various countries. Two new depositories to
receive the official documents were added during the year, Czecho-
slovakia to exchange full sets and the State of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, partial sets.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The congressional appropriation for the maintenance of the Na-
tional Zoological Park was the same for the past fiscal year as for
the preceding year, and with the constantly increasing cost of prac-
tically all supplies used at the park it was impossible to spend more
than a smal] part of the amount for repairs and improvements.
Only the most urgent of the needed improvements were completed,
among them a public-comfort station at the Harvard Street entrance;
nine new inclosures of iron framework covered with heavy mesh wire
for strictly outdoor animals, such as pumas, leopards, lynxes, and
others; and some necessary minor improvements, such as new con-
crete steps, drainage gutters, and new fences.

Popular interest in the park continues to increase, the total number
of visitors during the year being 2,229,605, the largest yearly attend-
ance ever recorded. The educational value of the zoological collec-

42803 °—22——3
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

tion is emphasized by the fact that 98 schools and classes, comprising
about 9,000 individuals, visited the park during the year.

The number of animals in the collection at the close of the year
was 1,427, representing 419 species. Of this total, 496 were mam-
mals, 847 birds, and 84 reptiles. While this number is 124 under the
record year, nevertheless the monetary and scientific value of the col-
lection is much greater than ever before. Specially interesting
among the 127 animals presented to the park during the year were a
number of accessions from South America, including the rare black-
headed ouakari monkey, two snowy egrets, a scarlet ibis, a specimen
of the rare matamata turtle, a white-backed trumpeter, the most 1m-
portant addition to the bird department during the year, a Mexican
kinkajou, and other rare South American species. The most inter-
esting among the animals born in the park is a hippopotamus, which
attracts much attention from visitors.

It is gratifying to be able to report that the sundry civil act for
1921 carries an appropriation of $80,000 for the purchase of a front-
age of 625 feet on Connecticut Avenue, which will enable the park to
have a dignified approach at this important entrance without the
danger of encroachment by private dwellings or other buildings.
Among the important needs of the park the superintendent mentions,
in an appendix to this report, a suitable public restaurant for the
increasing number of visitors, the purchase of a narrow strip of land
between the park boundary and Adams Mill Road near the south-
eastern entrance, outdoor inclosures for lions, tigers, and certain
other animals, and increased compensation for certain of the em-
ployees, particularly keepers and policemen.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the observatory at Washington consisted largely of
preparation of tables of results for publication in Volume IV of the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and of reducing the 1919
observations made at Mount Wilson and comparing them with those
obtained by the Smithsonian observers in Chile. The agreement be-
tween the two sets of results, after allowing for systematic errors,
was excellent, the average deviation of the two stations for 50 values
obtained on corresponding days being only 0.013 calories, or 0.65 per
cent. A remarkable confirmation of the variation of solar radiation
on the earth was given by photo-electric observations on the planet
Saturn by Dr. Guthnick, of the Berlin-Babelsberg Observatory. Va-
riations in brightness of that planet were shown which were found to
be in almost exact correlation with variations of the solar radiation
on the earth as observed at Calama, Chile. This comparison indi-
cates that the variation of the solar radiation is due to rays from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

the sun of unequal brightness, which, rotating with the sun, strike
the various planets successively in the order of their longitudes,
and fall one after the other upon the earth as the sun by rotation
brings them into line with us.

A new instrument for measuring nocturnal radiation, devised by
Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich and constructed at the observatory in-
strument shop, was successfully tried during the year. It is provi-
sionally called the “honeycomb pyranometer.” ‘The instrument is
almost as sensitive as a flat blackened strip and, moreover, has the
valuable property of being fully absorbing, which a strip has not.
It is an instrument of great promise for standard measurements of
various kinds of radiation.

Through the generosity of Mr. John A. Roebling, of New Jersey,
it was made possible to move the Smithsonian observing station pre-
viously located on the plain near Calama, Chile, to a near-by moun-
tain above the interference of dust and smoke. With the remainder
of Mr. Roebling’s grant it is proposed to establish a new observing
station on the Harqua Hala Mountain, in Arizona, one of the most
cloudless regions in the world. The establishment of these two sta-
tions so widely separated from one another will make it possible
to obtain nearly every day in the year check observations of the solar
constant of radiation, laying a firm foundation of solar observa-
tions from which meteorologists will be able to determine whether
the variations in the sun are of value, as present results indicate, in
forecasting weather conditions. However, with the limited funds at
his disposal, Doctor Abbot found it necessary to transfer apparatus
from the Mount Wilson station to the new Harqua Hala station, and
he urges in his report that Congress appropriate sufficient money to
provide for independent observing equipment for both stations and
for needed improvements to the Arizona station.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The United States Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature is intrusted with the duty of collecting, in-
dexing, and classifying titles of all scientific papers published in
the United States to form part of the International Catalogue issued
by a central bureau in London.

The enterprise was begun in 1900, and published annually 17 vol-
umes up to 1913. Fifteen volumes for the year 1914 have been
printed, and much of the material for the fifteenth issue is now in
the hands of the central bureau, its publication being delayed by
financial difficulties brought about by the war. <A conference has
been called by the Royal Society in London, September 28 next, to
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

consider the future of the catalogue and to discuss means for meet-
ing this financial deficit.

The aim and purpose of the International Catalogue was to meet
the demands of scientific workers for an annual authors’ and subject
catalogue to the current literature of science. A general revision of
the classification schedules which form the key to the subject cata-
logues is now needed and, in view of the present apparent demand
for abstract journals, it is to be hoped that when these improvements
are considered arrangements may be made to cooperate with the
bodies now preparing and publishing abstracts to scientific
literature.

It would seem that the pressing demand for such abstract journals,
now evident in the United States, should be recognized internation-
ally. This institution would, therefore, favor any feasible plan to
bring the present influential organization of the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature, already recognized and supported by
practically all the countries of the world, into close cooperation with
existing abstract journals and to encourage the establishment of
abstract journals covering those branches of science not already
represented.

NECROLOGY.

STEPHEN C. BROWN.

Stephen C. Brown, who for more than 40 years had held the posi-
tion of registrar of the National Museum, died on July 11, 1919. At
a meeting of his associates in the Smithsonian and Museum, held the
following day, many of Mr. Brown’s friends expressed the high
esteem and admiration in which he had been held and their sorrow at
his loss. .

R. LUTHER REED.

R. Luther Reed, an employee of the Institution since 1880, died on
April 26, 1920. He was foreman of the Museum carpenter shop until
the Zoological Park was established, where he served until brought
back to the Institution by Secretary Langley to work on his aero-
dromes. Mr. Langley has expressed in his publications his appre-
ciation of Mr. Reed’s skill and efficient service in that connection.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuartes D, Watcort, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States National Museum during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1920.

The year witnessed very little change in the organization of the
United States National Museum. The congressional appropriations
for the maintenance of the Museum remaining practically stationary
for many years has not only prevented the Museum from engaging
in new lines of work offering exceptional opportunities at this time
but has allowed it to carry forward existing work only by the use
of the strictest economy. The Museum has been unable to add even
a few of the experts needed to assist in the classification of specimens
in the recently organized department of arts and industries as well
as in the long-established natural history departments, nor has it been
able to make any general advancement of salaries though greatly
needed. ‘The insufficiency of funds precludes separate staff officers
for the various sections or divisions of the work, these various activi-
ties having of necessity to be placed under those curators in other
lines best qualified to also handle the subjects. Thus, for instance,
for administrative purposes only, the division of medicine and the
section of wood technology are under the general supervision of Mr.
F. L. Lewton, who is the curator of textiles, and Dr. Walter Hough,
curator of ethnology, has general oversight of various other coliec-
tions where there is no paid staff, especially the art textiles, ceramics,
musical instruments, and the period costume collections. This ar-
rangement is far from ideal, but it holds collections together until
means are available for the needed additional experts. The item for
preservation of collections, from which the scientific and clerical
staffs, the watch and cleaning force, freight and cartage, and pre-
servatives are paid, was last increased 10 years ago, just as the Mu-
seum was taking possession of the Natural History Building. Since
then approximately 3,000,000 specimens have been added to the
Museum.

After the death of Mr. S. C. Brown the position of registrar of |
the Museum was abolished and a reorganization of the work made.
The records relating to accessions, material for examination and
report, and to distribution of specimens were transferred to the office

37
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

of correspondence and documents, where the files of the Museum are
kept, and the duties of shipping clerk were combined with those of
property clerk.

The collections of echinoderms were removed from the division of
marine invertebrates, a separate division of echinoderms being es-
tablished and Mr. Austin H. Clark promoted from assistant curator
of marine invertebrates to curator of echinoderms and placed in
charge. As he had devoted much time to the onychophores, they
were included in the new division. At the close of the year the
division of graphic arts was transferred from the department of
anthropology to that of arts and industries.

The sundry civil bill for 1921 carries a small appropriation for
the National Gallery of Art. [or economic reasons the gallery has
up to now been administered as an integral part of the Museum, the
scientific and administrative staffs of which have cared for the gal-
lery in addition to their own regular Museum duties. This appro-
priation will permit of the gallery being separated from the Museum
on July 1, 1920, and organized as an independent bureau under the
Smithsonian Institution, and to it will be transferred the fine art
collections of the Museum which have heretofore been administered
under the curator of the National Gallery of Art. The gallery will
for the present, however, continue to be housed in the Natural His-
tory Building of the Museum.

The year has witnessed the bringing together here of large war
collections, made possible by the hearty cooperation of the War and
Navy Departments. Besides supplying the objects, they transported
them without cost to the Museum, set them up in the Museum build-
ings, and in many instances detailed officers and men to assist in
labeling and otherwise preparing them for exhibition.

COLLECTIONS.

The total number of specimens acquired by the Museum during
the year was approximately 216,871. Received in 1,480 separate ac-
cessions, they were classified and assigned as follows: Department of
anthropology, 15,254; zoology, 101,554; botany, 35,211; geology and
mineralogy, estimated, 22,400; paleontology, estimated, 40,000; tex-
tiles, woods, medicines, foods, and other miscellaneous animal and
vegetable products, 1,716; mineral technology, 627; mechanical tech-
nology, 97; and National Gallery of Art, 12. Loans and deposits
for auhibidion added 8,348 more, chiefly in the division of history,

war collections.
_ Material to the extent of 495 lots was received for sebcin examina-
tion and report. While this free identification of material sent in
from all parts of the country requires considerable time on the part
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

of specialists, it is not without advantage to the Museum in furnish-
ing occasional desirable specimens and in recording new localities.

The distribution of duplicates for educational purposes, mainly
to schools and colleges, aggregated 4,306 specimens.

Material sent out to specialists for study on behalf of the Museum
amounted to 13,838 specimens, mainly biological.

War collections —Through cooperation of the Navy and the War
Departments, the stream of material reaching the Museum illus-
trative of the World War filled the quarters assigned to the division
of history in the Arts and Industries Building, overflowing into the
Natural History Building and the Aircraft Building.

Prior to July, 1919, very little material had been received illus-
trating the work of the Navy during the World War, with the ex-
ception of some uniforms of the Marine Corps and the insignia of
its various branches. At that time it was decided to assign the ro-
tunda of the Natural History Building for this purpose, and Lieut.
Commander L. P. Warren was designated on the part of the Navy
Department to take charge of this work. A number of exhibits were
received during the year, the most important of which are a para-
vane, which is a device attached to battleships for the purpose of de-
stroying mines; an anti-aircraft gun and a Y depth charge gun for
destruction of submarines; a collection of British naval airplane
bombs, a large number of relics from the sunken battleship J/aine, a
1-pound gun, a German torpedo 18 feet long, a Davis gun for air-
planes, a naval range finder, and the large 6-inch naval gun which
fired America’s first shot in the World War. Owing to its great
weight this gun was placed on the east driveway, where it makes a
most impressive exhibit.

The War Department continued its generous cooperation by con-
tributing material illustrating the military activities of the United
States, the Allies, and the enemy countries in the following branches:
Air Service, Ordnance, Chemical Warfare, Quartermaster, Engineer,
Medical, and Signal Corps. The material was selected especially for
the Museum with a view to illustrating graphically the military his-
tory of the war for the benefit of the public and for historical and
scientific research.

From the Air Service came military airplanes showing types of
machines used by the United States, France, and Germany, including
a De Haviland, tractor biplane of type originally developed by
England and later adopted by the United States for observation and
day bombing purposes; a Le Pere tractor biplane of type developed
by the United States Air Service during the war for fighting pur-
poses; a Martin bomber, twin tractor biplane of type developed by
United States Air Service for bombardment purposes; a Spad, XVI,
tractor biplane of type developed and used by French for recon-
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1920.

naissance purposes; another Spad, XIII, tractor biplane of type
developed and used by France (this airplane, which was part of the
Twenty-second Aero Squadron, Air Service, American Expedition-
ary Forces, has seven victories to its credit, and is of the same type
as those with which the famous French flyers Fonch and Guynemer
and the American flyer Rickenbacker made a great part of their
records) ; and a Fokker, D-VII, tractor biplane developed and used
by the German air service for pursuit purposes. This plane was cap-
tured at Verdun by Capt. H. McLanahan and Lieuts. E. Curtis and 8.
Sewall, of the First Pursuit Group, Ninety-fifth Aero Squadron,
United States Army, Capt. J. Mitchell commanding.

The Ordnance Department and the Quartermaster Corps supplied
ordnance equipment of the type used by the various armies for
offensive and defensive purposes, small arms of type used by the
United States during the war, rifles, pistols, and swords illustrating
the types of weapons used during the World War by the various
armies, including the rifles used by the armies of Austria, Belgium,
England, France, Japan, Italy, Germany, Russia, Roumania, and
Serbia. Of more than passing interest were specimens of silk car-
tridge cloth used by the United States Army for powder bags for
loading the large guns and samples of the same material adapted for
civilian use.

Of enemy material the Ordnance Department transmitted a large
and interesting collection of German and Austrian equipment cap-
tured by the American Expeditionary Forces. This included field,
machine, anti-aircraft, and anti-tank guns; field kitchen; various
other vehicles, and miscellaneous commissary, infantry, artillery,
cavalry, and signal equipment, some made of paper.

From the Chemical Warfare Service came offensive and defensive
equipment used in the chemical warfare by both the armies of the
allied and enemy countries, including shells, bombs, projectiles, smoke
producers, masks, special clothing, and alarm; in each case also nearly
complete series showing the development of such objects from their
earliest form to the most recent.

The Corps of Engineers contributed a collection illustrating the
important part played in modern warfare by that branch of the
Army, including examples of tools and small equipment and of the
large instruments peculiar to the work of the corps which so greatly
aided in winning the war. Particularly interesting are a parabolic
listening device; sound and flash ranging sets for locating the posi-
tion of enemy batteries; examples of the high-intensity electric-arc
and the open-type searchlights; models showing the use of camou-
flage material in trench warfare with dummy silhouettes of soldiers
to draw machine-gun fire; representation of standard type trench
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

and shelter-cave chamber; models of bridges, pontoon boats, and
wagons, and a camouflaged-gun position.

Other contributions, through the Quartermaster Corps, added uni-
forms and insignia fully representing the uniform and individual
personal equipment worn by officers and enlisted men of the fol-
lowing countries and the colonial possessions of each: Belgium,
France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, Austria, Germany, and Tur-
key. This series forms a marvelously complete collection, and will
be a priceless source of information for historical purposes.

The Medical Department completed the extensive series begun last
year of objects illustrating the work of that branch of the United
States Army, and it was duly installed this year under the supervision
of Mr. F. L. Lewton. The field equipment included first-aid kit
and emergency belt worn. by all enlisted men in the Medical Corps,
field operating table, instruments, dressings, and other supplies,
complete portable and the emergency dental outfit for carrying
in hand, field kitchen, disinfector, sterilizing outfits, litters, am-
bulances, etc. The base hospital material for exhibition. was grouped
as follows: The X-ray laboratory, showing all important fixed
and movable types of X-ray equipment; the hospital ward of three
beds, with various equipment; general operating room of a mili-
tary hospital; anesthesia room; eye, ear, and throat clinic; frac-
ture room; dental clinic; sterilizing room; bacteriological labora-
tory; serological laboratory; pathological laboratory; and chemical
laboratory.

The pictorial material of the war collections was increased by a
series of nearly 500 drawings and paintings by the official artists
of the American Expeditionary Forces, which were installed in
rooms 45, 46, and 47 of the Natural History Building. To the
numismatic section of the war collections was added a collection
of representative war decorations and medals of Great Britain,
France, Italy, Germany, Austria, and Turkey, and a series of
bronze and silver commemorative medals issued by Belgium, France,
Great Britain, Greece, Holland, Italy, Montenegro, Rumania, Russia,
and Serbia in commemoration of notable events during the war.

The National Society of the Colonial Dames assisted also in build-
ing up the war collections by lending a very interesting and striking
series of uniforms of the types worn by American women members
of war organizations. ’

The space assigned to the war collections was increased early in
the year by two large ranges on the ground floor of the Natural
History Building. In one was installed the collection of foreign
uniforms, insignia, and decorations worn by the armies of the Allies
and the enemy countries and the captured German military equip-
49 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

ment, for which the Museum was indebted to the Quartermaster
General of the United States Army, Maj. Gen. H. L. Rogers. In
the second range were placed the collections of chemical warfare
and ordnance material. The west and central portion of the foyer
of this building was given over to the Corps of Engineers for its
exhibit; a portion. of the foyer and three rooms on the east to the
exhibit of the Medical Department; and the walls of three rooms
on the west of the foyer to the pictorial material. In the Arts and
Industries Building were placed on display captured German ord-
nance material, small arms of the Allies and enemy countries, Ameri-
can ordnance equipment, and the collection of uniforms worn by the
women’s organizations. Out of doors, on the west side of this build-
ing, were placed the German field guns, and the airplane exhibit is
being assembled in the Aircraft Building.

The War Department rendered great assistance in putting this
material on display, without which the Museum could have made
little progress, the small force of the division of history being en-
tirely inadequate to the huge task. Special credit is due to Capt.
J. J. Hittinger, of the Quartermaster Corps, who continued on detail
to the Museum throughout the year, giving general supervision to the
assembling and installation of material; to Maj. John McLaren in
connection with the ordnance section; to Capts. E. W. Jepson and
J. E. Costello and Sergt. Burns A. Stubbs under Lieut. T. N. Ellman
as to material from the Corps of Engineers; and to Capt. A. P.
Mooradian, who planned and supervised the wiring and setting up of
the equipment of the X-ray laboratory in the exhibit of the Medical
Department, all of which is operative.

History.—In other lines than the war collections the Museum ac-
quired much material of value and interest. In American history the
additions included a large collection of uniforms of the types worn by
the armies of 23 foreign countries prior to the World War; 226 com-
plete uniforms of the types worn in the United States pee from
1776 to 1909; material relating to the career of Cyrus W. Field and
the laying of the first Atlantic telegraph cables; miscellaneous scien-
tific apparatus used by Joseph Henry (1799- _1878) during the latter
part of his life, the gift of his daughter, Miss Caroline Henry;
watches owned by Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan, United States
Army ; swords and other military relics of Maj. Gen. John R. Brooke,
United States Army; mementoes of Susan B. Anthony and objects
illustrating the history of the women’s suffrage movement in the
United States from 1848 to 1919; and for the series of costumes of
mistresses of the White House, a black velvet dress worn by Mrs.
Woodrow Wilson, and a lace flounce completing the inaugural dress
of Mrs. James A. Garfield. The philatelic material was increased by
5,872 specimens, of which 4,345 were transferred from the United
eo

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

States Post Office Department, and of these 2,475 are exam-
ples of new issues reaching that department from the International
Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.

Anthropology—The small number of accessions received in the
division of ethnology shows markedly the rapid decline of Indian
material and a corresponding though less rapid disappearance of
material from races less modified by contact with the white man.
The receipts included western Indian baskets donated by Miss Ella F.
Hubby; valuable material collected during the period of military
occupation of the Philippines received as gifts from Mrs. Thomas F’.
Dwyer and Miss Kline, Gen. Joseph C. Breckenridge and the late
Lieut. Col. Duncan Elliott, United States Army; and pottery and
objects in silver, pewter, and brass bequeathed to the Museum by
Miss Elizabeth S. Stevens.

The division of American archeology reports its yearly increase
due largely to contributions from the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, including collections made in Arizona, Utah, and Colorado
by Dr. Walter Hough; in Texas by Dr. J. W. Fewkes and Prof. J. E.
Pearce; in Missouri by Mr. Gerard Fowke; and in Utah by the cura-
tor, Mr. Neil M. Judd. The bureau also transferred a collection of
archeological specimens obtained by it as a gift from the Otto T.
Mallery expedition.

The collections in Old World archeology benefited, too, by the
bequest of Miss Elizabeth S. Stevens, receiving nearly a hundred
objects of Christian and Buddhist religious art in wood, copper,
bronze, and silver. Other additions included ancient coins from
Capt. Clarence L. Wiener; casts of engraved antique gems from
Dr. William H. Dall; and casts of oriental seals made in the Museum
from originals owned by Mrs. Talcott Williams. The collection of
Bibles was supplemented by the two copies of the New Testament in
English from which Thomas Jefferson cut the English version of his
The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth, the so-called Jefferson
Bible, donated by Miss Bertha Cohen and her nieces.

In physical anthropology the most important accessions were
skeletal material, as follows: From New Mexico, gift of the Museum
of the American Indian, Heye Foundation; from Nevada, donated
by Hon. William Kent; from Tennessee and Kentucky, partly gift
and partly a loan from Mr. W. E. Myer; from Missouri, col-
lected by Mr. Gerard Fowke; and from Arizona, collected by Dr.
Walter Hough, transferred to the Museum from the Bureau of
American Ethnology. A Neolithic skull was received in exchange
from the University of Liege, Belgium, and a plaster bust represent-
ing a form of early man by purchase. The trip of the curator, Dr.
AleS Hrdlicka, to the Far East added to the collections some 2,000
portraits of peoples of that locality.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Mr. Hugo Worch contributed three pianos and a harpsichord to
the series he is building up here representing the history of the
pianoforte, and from Mrs. J. Ryan Devereux came a noteworthy
collection of 81 musical instruments of various types.

The additions in graphic arts included a collection of several
hundred specimens of wood engravings, mezzotints, aquatints, etc.,
donated by Mr. Earle W. Huckel; miniature mosaics from Mr.
Stockton W. Jones, showing a method of making pictures not here-
tofore represented in the division; sephiograph reproductions from
the Crane Lithograph Co.; and American-made vellum from Mr.
George A. Hathaway. The section of photography was enriched by
photographie apparatus used by Edward Muybridge in his study of
motion in animals, presented by the Commercial Museum of Phila-
delphia.

In the ceramic gallery loans were credited from Miss E. B. Lowe
of old English porcelain, and from Miss Eliza Ruhamah Scidmore
of Japanese porcelain and bronze.

Biology—The additions to the biological collections aggregated
approximately 136,765 specimens. Not only was the year numerically
a very prosperous one, but the reports of the curators show a gratify-
ing increase in the scientific importance of the material received.
This is particularly true of the division of birds, in which no less
than 163 species new to the collection were among the accessions.
This splendid result was to a great extent due to the liberality of Mr.
B. H. Swales, of Washington, D. C., who placed a fund at the disposi-
tion of the Museum for this particular purpose. No less important
was the material received through the continued generosity of Dr.
W. L. Abbott. Impressed by the importance of securing for the
Museum an adequate representation of the fast disappearing higher
vertebrate fauna of Australia, he granted the means to send Mr.
Charles M. Hoy to that Continent for the purpose of collecting
especially mammals and birds. No less than 240 specimens of the
former and 228 of the latter from a region hitherto very poorly repre-
sented in the national collection are contained in this first installment.
Dr. Abbott’s personal explorations in Haiti have also yielded very
important additions. A third expedition was of particular interest
as supplementing our African collections, which were hitherto con-
fined chiefly to the eastern side of the Continent, viz, the Collins-
Garner expedition to the French Congo. More than 2,350 mammals,
birds, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates were thus added, among
them 2 gorillas, 2 chimpanzees, 2 buffalos, etc. The first installment
from another African expedition, carried out by the Institution in
conjunction with the Universal Film Co., contained 239 mammals
and birds from southern Africa, still further contributing to the
excellency of our series from the dark continent,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

Among the large collections of insects acquired, the following are
especially noteworthy: Mr. B. Preston Clark presented 5,500 lepidop-
tera of the Hawaiian Islands and South America. Similarly Dr.
William Barnes donated 2,000 moths, including 60 types, and: 150
butterflies. From Dr. W. M. Mann, through the Bureau of Ento-
mology, the Museum received 6,000 insects of various orders, collected
by him in Honduras, and similarly from Dr. E. A. Schwarz a collec-
tion made in Florida of 5,770 miscellaneous insects. Besides 6,930
specimens transferred by the Department of Agriculture, numerous
accessions were received from Costa Rica, Australia, South Africa,
Mexico, ete.

The mollusk collection was the recipient of two particularly val-
uable and important gifts, namely, the collection of Hawaiian marine
shells donated by Mr. D. Thaanum and a part of the William F.
Clapp collection of New England land and fresh-water mollusks,
about 10,000 specimens purchased and presented by Mr. John B.
Henderson. The former, consisting of about 5,000 specimens col-
lected by Mr. Thaanum and Mr. J. B. Langford, has long been known
as the best existing collection of authentically located marine Ha-
walian shells. As in previous years, the Bureau of Fisheries forms
one of the chief sources of our material of marine invertebrates, in-
cluding specimens collected during the cruises of the Albatross and
the Bache reported on by Mr. Sasaki, Dr. A. L. Treadwell, and Dr.
Hi. B. Bigelow. Numerous other accessions from collectors and col-
laborators were remarkable for the great number of types of new
species added during the year.

The botanical collections accessioned included highly valuable mate-
rial from all over the world. Besides important North American col-
lections, there are represented plants from Mexico and Central Amer-
ica, Colombia, British Guiana, Brazil, Argentina, Europe, Africa,
China, Sumatra, etc. The Department of Agriculture transferred
8,190 specimens, mostly the result of field work of the Bureau of
Plant Industry. The Forestry Commission of the Mexican State of
Sinaloa transmitted 887 specimens from little known parts of that
State. A large number of plants were obtained in exchange, the
largest lot consisting of 2,398 specimens received from the New York
Botanical Garden, mostly plants collected in Colombia by Rusby
and Pennell. Likewise in exchange there were acquired from the
Botanical Museum of the University at Copenhagen, 923 specimens
of Mexican and Central American plants, chiefly material collected
a long time ago by Liebmann and Oersted, and therefore of unusual
historical interest and value.

Geology.—The additions to the collections in the department of
geology during the year were 180 lots against 135 for the year previ-
ous, with a decided increase in the number of specimens and their

~
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

scientific value. Of these accessions, 111 were gifts, 32 transfers, 25
exchanges, 2 were collections by members of the force, 1 received as a
deposit, and but 9 acquired by purchase. Among those of greatest
importance were gifts comprising ores of the rare metals, particu-
larly tungsten and molybdenum, secured chiefly through Mr. Frank
L. Hess, of the United States Geological Survey, an honorary cus-
todian in the Museum. The donors included Mr. C. W. Purington,
Vladivostok, Siberia; Mr. J. G. Hibbs, Denver, Colorado; the Home-
stake Mining Co., Lead, South Dakota; the R. & S. Molybdenum Co.,
Questa, New Mexico; and the Molybdenum Mines Co., Denver. Other
important additions were made by Dr. J. Morgan Clements, of New
York, traveling in China in the interest of the Federal Trade Com-
mission, and Mr. M. L. Patterson, manager of the Thabawleik Mines,
Mergui, Burma.

An excellent series of crystallized native copper and silver minerals
from the Lake Superior region was acquired by purchase and gift,
and a large slab of native copper, simulating in outline the continent
of South America, was received from the Bolivian delegates to the
Second Pan en Financial Conference.

‘The meteorite collection was enriched by examples of the following
stones: Colby, Wisconsin, 3,642 grams; Bjurbole, Finland, 2,500
grams; Washington Gounty; Raeeas 2,003 grams; Kesen, Japan, 1,397
grams; and Appley Bridge, 598 grams. In addition there was ac-
quired 3,320 grams of an iron from Yenberrie, Australia.

Valuable collections in the form of minerals and invertebrate fos-
sils, comprising many thousands of specimens, were received from
the United States Geological Survey, as was also a large series of
igneous rocks from the Yellowstone National Park, described by Dr.
J. P. Iddings in volume 32 of its monographs.

Large collections from the West Indies, particularly from the
Dominican Republic, have been added to the series of invertebrate
fossils, which have been further augumented by some 10,000 specimens
from fae Upper Cambrian of Wasconsin,

To the exhibition series have been added a large and unique speci-
men of trilobite, the largest American form in existence, which was
found during excavations in connection with the conservancy dam
at Dayton, Ohio; a mounted skeleton of the large, extinct mammal,
Brontotherium hatcheri,; the sea-living lizard, Tylosaurus proriger;
and a diminutive camel Stenomylus: hitchcochi. The study collec-
tions in vertebrate paleontology were augumented by a considerable
number of type specimens, deposited by the Maryland Geological
Survey, which, though fragmentary, are of primary interest. Of
equal importance are gifts of Pleistocene bones and teeth from a
cave near Bulverde, Texas, donated by Dr. O. P. Hay, and similar
material from Cavetown, Maryland, gift of Phillips Academy, Ando-
ver, Massachusetts.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

The gem collection has been thoroughly overhauled, reweighed,
and recatalogued, and a handbook and catalogue of the same pre-
pared, the manuscript of which is now in the hands of the Govern-
ment Printer.

The work of preparing 100 sets of 85 specimens each of ores and
minerals for distribution to schools, mentioned in the report of last
year, has been completed and the sets are now ready as occasion shall
demand.

Teatiles—The coliections under the supervision of the curator of
textiles, which, besides textiles, embrace medicine, food, wood tech-
nology, and miscellaneous animal and vegetable products, were in-
creased by many gifts and by transfer from other Government
bureaus amounting to about 2,000 objects. The most important of
these are as follows: The division of textiles received for exhibition
from the Department of Ordnance, War Department, specimens of
the silk cartridge cloth which was so essential in the preparation of
separate Joading ammunition for all the large guns taking part in
the World War; also examples of this same fabric showing the re-
sults of the experiments made to demonstrate the value for civilian
uses of the 11,000,000 yards sold as surplus material. There were
added by gift many specimens of knitted fabrics contributed by
American manufacturers, and made from artificial silk, wool, and
mohair.

Medicine—The collections in the division of medicine were en-
larged by a series of pharmaceutical preparations illustrating the
various forms in which medicinal substances are prepared for ad-
ministration, a series of essential oils, and an addition to the materia
medica collections of a large number of inorganic chemicals. The
exhibits planned to illustrate the basic principles of different schools
of medicine were increased by many gifts, and the one devoted to
homeopathy completed. The section of pharmacy received many
documents and publications bearing on the history of the United
States Pharmacopoeia and the complete series of written and printed
records of the last revision of this important work, amounting to
many thousands of pages.

Wood technology—tThe exhibition collections of the section of
wood technology were much improved by a transfer from the Forest
Service of 25 colored transparencies and 48 colored bromide enlarge-
ments specially prepared for the National Museum, representing
typical forest scenes, methods of lumbering, and forest industries,
and by the gift of exhibit materia] illustrating the use of wood waste
and wood pulp.

Animal and vegetable products—Many specimens of edible and in-
edible oils developed as a branch of the meat-packing industry, and
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

samples of the official tea standards used from 1915 to 1920 to con-
trol the quality of the foreign teas imported by the United States
were added to the collections of animal and vegetable products.

Mineral technology.—In the division of mineral technology the
principal addition was a working model of a salt works, donated by
the Worcester Salt Co., being a replica of that company’s operations
near Warsaw, New York. A system of circulating water is caused to
mine the native salt, bring it in solution to the surface, and finally
to surrender it, the whole taking place before the visitor’s eyes. The
National Lead Co. contributed 26 large transparencies and about 600.
exhibition samples needed in completing the comprehensive exhibit
illustrating the lead industry undertaken several years ago and
which now lacks only competent technical direction in installation.
The work of the division was largely at a standstill by the transfer
elsewhere in the Museum at the beginning of the year of one of the
members of its scientific staff and the resignation soon afterwards
of the remaining two members. Mr. Gilbert, after severing active
relations, continued under appointment on an honorary basis to give
advisory supervision over these collections, all of which had been
developed under his direction. It is hoped another year will find this
division manned and again to the front, as it was so signally during
the period of the war.

Mechanical technology.—FProbably the most important addition
to the collections of the division of mechanical technology during
the year was a 12-cylinder Liberty airplane motor, the gift of the
Lincoln Motor Co., various portions of which are cut away to show
the interior parts in operative relation. Another accession of note
was a replica of the original typographer, invented and patented by
William Austin Burt in 1829, donated by his grandson, Mr. Hiram
Austin Burt. As representative of the early beginnings of the
American typewriter this forms a very important addition to the
exhibit, showing the development of the typewriter. The time-
keeping collections were enhanced by the gift of two watches from
Mr. George W. Spier, honorary custodian of watches. In the sec-
tion of marine transportation there was added a model of one of
the freight ships built at Hog Island Shipyard in 1919, received
from the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, through
Senator Wesley L. Jones, chairman.

Early in the year plans for the future development of the division
of mechanical technology were formulated, the end in view being
a museum of engineering. Accordingly, the collections in care of
the division were first rearranged in the halls, the basis of rear-
rangement being the kind of object rather than the source; thus,
one hall now includes all objects relating to land and aerial trans-
7: EE =

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

portation; another hall, marine transportation; and another hall,
metrology and mechanical transmission of intelligence.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The National Gallery of Art—the department of fine arts of the
Museum—continued in charge of Dr. W. H. Holmes, as curator, the
collections occupying mainly the central skylighted hall on the first
floor of the north wing of the Natural History Building. The addi-
tions while not numerous comprised works and objects of very con-
siderable museum value, not, however, comparable in importance
with the accessions of the year before. Of the works of painting and
sculpture added, the most noteworthy, perhaps, was a statue in white
marble of the Earl of Chatham (William Pitt), by Francis Derwent
Wood, R. A., the gift of the Duchess of Marlborough and other
American women in Great Britain.

During the year four paintings were purchased from the Henry W.
Ranger fund, two of which, Grey Day, by W. Granville-Smith, N. A.,
and Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel, N. A., are now
on view in the gallery; the others are The Rapids, by W. E. Schofield,
N. A., deposited in the Brooklyn Museum, and the Orange Bowl, by
Anna Fisher, the assignment of which has not yet been announced.
It is gratifying to know that by this bequest the gallery is assured
of a number of worthy additions each year.

During the year the Rev. Alfred Duane Pell continued to add to
his collection of art objects presented and lent to the Museum and
installed in the long room at the north end of the gallery. The in-
stallation was not complete at the close of the year.

The preparation of a catalogue of the gallery bringing the record
up to date was carried to practical completion. The last issue of the
catalogue, prepared by Assistant Secretary Rathbun, is dated 1916,
and it is regarded as important that a new edition be printed as soon
as practicable. i

It is a matter of particular felicitation that in June Congress
granted a fund sufficient to permit the organization of the Gallery as
a separate unit of the Smithsonian foundation and to provide a
modest curatorial staff, thus relieving the Museum of a rapidly grow-
ing burden and at the same time affording the long-delayed oppor-
tunity of laying the foundation requisite to a reasonable and sym-
metric development of the Nation’s Gallery of Art.

FREER COLLECTIONS.

The death of Mr. Freer this year is a great loss to the art interests
of the country. In presenting his collections of American and orien-
tal art to the Smithsonian Institution in 1906, Mr. Freer stipulated

42803°—22——4
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

that they should remain in his possession during his life, and at that
time he provided in his will $500,000 for the erection by the Smith-
sonian Institution of a suitable building for housing them, near the
National Museum. He reserved the right to add to the collections,
and in the intervening years he has about tripled the number of
objects originally transferred by title to the Institution. Increasing
the building fund to $1,000,000 and waiving the original conditions,
Mr. Freer in 1915 decided upon the early erection of the structure
and the transfer of the collections to Washington. The building,
now nearing completion, was accordingly begun in the autumn of
1916. That Mr. reer was not permitted to see the consummation
of his plans for the development of the art interests of the country
is greatly deplored. His experience and advice would be invaluable
in inaugurating this independent unit of the National Gallery of
Art which he so generously provided. The building and collections
represent an outlay of some six or seven million dollars and consti-
tute one of the most important and valued donations which any indi-
vidual has ever made freely and unconditionally to the Nation.

During the year the building for the Freer collections was brought
nearly to completion, despite delays now characteristic of the build-
ing business. The central court was carefully laid out with walks,
gardens, and fountain. Arrangements were made with the officer in
charge of public buildings and grounds for laying out the driveways
to the building and otherwise improving the grounds immediately
surrounding it.

The Peacock room, that celebrated decoration executed by Whist-
ler as a setting for his painting La Princesse, was transferred from
the residence of Mr, Freer, in Detroit, and set up complete in a room
specially designed for its reception at the southeastern corner of the
building. By the close of the year the executors of Mr. Freer’s es-
tate had commenced to ship to Washington other portions of the
Freer collections, which will be stored in the various storage quarters
in the building until the structure is entirely completed and the in-
stallation of the collections can be undertaken.

THE LOEB BEQUEST.

Prof. Morris Loeb, the eminent chemist, who died on October 8,
1912, left a bequest of $25,000 to the American Chemical Society, to
be held as a special fund, the income of which should be used for the
establishment or maintenance of a chemical type museum, either in
connection with the Chemists’ Club of New York City, or the Na-
tional Museum in Washington, or the American Museum of Natural
History in New York City, preference to be given in the order
named. The chief object of the museum was to be the preservation
“LYV dO AYATIVS Y¥Sq5dus SHL

ie 3

ate LS

igo aR ISTSS Da

"| 3LW1d ‘Wodey s Auejes09aS—'OZ6L ‘Hodey uBlUuOSYyIWS
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

of all new substances described as the result of chemical research,
either by obtaining the same by gift or purchase from the diseoverer
or by causing the Scie to be prepared in sufficient quantity accord-
ing to the discoverer’s published directions—all for the purpose of
facilitating comparison by subsequent observers.

The Chemists? Club of New York accepted the trust, but bi
unable to comply with the conditions in the Loeb will, offered too"
up their claim, and the Institution indicated its +?" renlese to necept
the responsibility, through the Netiesa1 Museum. The fund should
hereafter yield a» ausuual income of about $1,155, though the amount
for the calendar year 1920 will be slightly less.

By means of this income from the Morris Loeb fund, the Smith-
sonian Institution proposes to build up in the National Museum “ the
Loeb collection of chemical types,” a permanent reference or study
collection of new substances and original material resulting from
chemical research. Steps will be taken to secure a competent advisory
committee composed of eminent chemists of the country to advise
on the policy to be pursued in dealing with investigators desiring the
use of portions of type material in the Loeb collection.

The general scheme has the sanction of various governmental
chemists, and the Bureau of Chemistry, Department of Agriculture,
favoring the establishment of such a collection under the Museum as
the proper place for a national collection, offers hearty cooperation,
placing at the Museum’s disposal in developing this project any of
the bureau’s resources in the way of personnel, equipment, and
supplies.

It is hoped shortly to reorganize the division, or section, of chem-
ical industries, in the department of arts and industries, begun in
1886. Insufficiency of funds prevents this being done at once. In
the meantime the Loeb collection, as well as other chemical specimens
which the agitation of this subject will doubtless bring to the
Museum, will be cared for under the direction of one of the curators
in arts and industries.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT.

The first deficiency act for 1920 included an item of $5,640 for
placing the Natural History Building in the same condition as it
was when occupied by the Bureau of War Risk Insurance in October,
1917. This permitted the pointing up of the damaged plastered
walls and the painting of walls, ceilings, and floors in the area occu-
pied by the bureau from October, 1917, to March, 1919.

Other improvements in this building from the regular Museum
appropriation included repairs of settlement cracks in Venetian floors
in exhibition halls, the pointing up of cracks and painting the walls
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

=e ceilings of these halls, painting walls and ceilings of comfort
room and rooms 223 and 224 on third floor, painting floors in west
north and west ranges, repointing open seams in the granite courses
and ledges on exterior and court walls and the stone steps at south
entrance, the painting of exterior surface of metal window frames of
first roa second stories, and painting gutters. The building in the
ves court was paid for use as a laboratory.

In the Arts «4 Tdustries Building the exterior woodwork of the
windows was painted; a Nutr of walls in the exhibition halls,
offices, and laboratories were repainted, inCluding the café; and an

additional dark room was constructed in the photographic Inboxahorg.

An improved system of ventilation was installed in the mascerating —
room in the south shed.

The deficiency act above referred to also provided the sum of
$14,000 to enable the regents of the Smithsonian to heat and fit up for
the exhibition of aircraft and accessories the temporary metal struc-
ture erected in the Smithsonian Grounds by the War Department,
with the understanding that the custody and control of the building
be transferred to the regents of the Institution by the Secretary of
War. Immediately after the building was turned over to the Insti-
tution in November, the old heating equipment was condemned and
sold and arrangements made to heat and light the building from the
power plant of the National Museum. Steam pipes were run from
the Arts and Industries Building, and electric lights were provided
for use on dark days and for police purposes at night.

To make the interior of the building suitable for exhibition pur-
poses, a concrete floor was laid in place of the wooden floor, which
had deteriorated to an extent that made its use impossible. The
entire ceiling and side walls were sheathed, covered with wall board,
and painted. Ventilators were installed at either end of the build-
ing, a concrete platform constructed at the east end of the build-
ing, and a glazed vestibule built at this end to be used as a public
entrance. A combination storage, workroom, and office was parti-
tioned off in the southeast corner and a new comfort room constructed.
The doors on the north side were closed, two doors on the west side
remodeled as emergency exits, and the exterior of the building was
painted.

The additions to the furniture this year included 30 exhibition cases
and bases, 229 storage cases and pieces of laboratory and office furni-
ture, 198 standard unit drawers, 602 insect drawers, and 388 special
drawers.

The power plant was closed for two months and eight days, during
which time electric current for light and power was purchased from
the Potomac Electric Power Co., under special contract made by the
Treasury Department,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

The changes and repairs to the plant consisted of the installation
of the forced oil-feed system for the engines purchased the previous
year; the purchase and installation of asbestos covers for the four
boiler drums, together with the repairing of the covering on the pipes
and smoke breeching in the engine room, and the purchase and in-
stallation of a new pump for removing water of condensation from
the main exhaust pipe. For the first time since the installation of the
plant, in 1909, it became necessary to replace the tubes in two of the
boilers and also to have the main bearings of two engines rebabbitted.
Though the entire plant has been operated under pressure, the de-
terioriation is, in the opinion of the engineer, largely due to the in-
ability of the Museum to secure competent and reliable men as stokers,
firemen, and assistant engineers at the very small salaries paid.

MEETINGS AND CONGRESSES.

The annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences was
held again this year in the Museum, on April 26, 27, and 28, the
auditorium and committee rooms being used, respectively, for the
presentation of the scientific papers and the business sessions. On
the first evening the William Ellery Hale lecture in the form of a
discussion by Dr. Harlow Shapley, of Mount Wilson Solar Observa-
tory, and Dr. Heber D. Curtis, of Lick Observatory, on the scale
of the universe, was followed by a conversazione in the National Gal-
lery of Art and the adjoining halls of the Museum.

Governmental, scientific, and educational organizations making
use of the auditorium and the committee rooms included: The Na-
tional Women’s Trade Union League of America, for the First
International Congress of Working Women; the Delaware River
Shipbuilders’ Council, for a conference of workers in various navy
yards and shipyards of the United States in reference to the Gov-
ernment’s shipbuilding and shipping program; the American Asso-
ciation of Anatomists, for its annual meeting; the American Asso-
ciation of Ichthyologists, for its annual meeting; Southern Socio-
logical Congress; the American Association of Museums, for its
fifteenth annual meeting; the United States Department of Agri-
culture, for a meeting of fertilizer manufacturers in connection with
an investigation of fertilizer prices; the States Relations Service of
that department, for various gatherings of its employees, including a
seven-day conference of its farm-management demonstrators from
all parts of the country and the annual meeting of the Potomac
Garden Club organized under its auspices; the Bureau of Plant
Industry, for a phytopathological seminar; and the Federal Horti-
cultural Board, for a public hearing to consider the advisability of
quarantining the States of Texas and Louisiana on account of the
pink bollworm of cotton; the War Department, for the closing exer-
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

cises of the Army Medical School session 1919-20; for the fourth
Hamilton fund lecture by the Rev. Dr. Charles E. Jefferson on
“The old order and the new”; the National Research Council, for a
lecture by Dr. John J. Carty on the wireless telephone, illustrated
by talking motion pictures; the District of Columbia Minimum Wage
Board, to bring together the women employed in hotels, restaurants,
apartment houses, and hospitals of Washington, that they might
select representatives to serve on the minimum-wage conference
for this industry; the public schools of the District, for lantern-slide
talks on trees, birds, and gardens by Mrs. Susan Sipe Alburtis before
children of the public schools of south Washington; the Southern
Society of Washington, for a lyceum on five Wednesday evenings
during the winter and spring; the Anthropological Society of Wash-
ington, for its gatherings of the 1919-20 season; the Anthropological
Society and the Washington Academy of Sciences, for a lecture by
Dr. W. H. R. Rivers on ethnology, its aims and needs; the Wash-
ington Society of the Archeological Institute of America, for a
lecture by Sir Bertram Windle on the megalithic monuments of
Great Britain; for a special exhibition of motion pictures of national
forests before delegates to the annual convention of the American
Pharmaceutical Association; the Audubon Society of the District
of Columbia, for its annual meeting, with lectures by Dr. Paul
Bartsch on the birds of the District of Columbia, and again for an
illustrated lecture by Dr. William L. Finley on wild game; the Wild
Flower Preservation Society; the Consumers’ League of the District
of Columbia, for addresses by Hon. William B. Colver and Mrs.
Florence Kelley on the cost of living from the consumer’s standpoint;
the committee in charge of “ Be-kind-to-animals week,” for an illus-
trated lecture by Mr. Ernest Harold Baines on the part played by
animals in the war, and again for organizing a “ Good-to-animals
society”; the U. S. S. Jacob Jones Post No. 2 of the American
Legion, to celebrate its first anniversary; the Association of Appoint-
ment Clerks; the Smithsonian Auxiliary of the District of Columbia
Chapter of the American Red Cross; the Smithsonian Relief Asso-
ciation, for its annual meeting; for awarding the prizes for the
Evening Star Army enlistment essays; the Washington Society of
Engineers for a discussion of the preliminary report of the engineer-
ing council’s committee on classification and compensation of Govern-
ment engineers; and the Washington section of the American Society
of Mechanical Engineers.

The work of the Congressional Joint Commission on Reclassifica-
tion of Salaries created great activity among the civil employees of
the Government in Washington, and the Museum afforded a meeting
place for the scientific-technical section of the Federal Employees’
Union No. 2, to complete the organization of the section, for a sym-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

posium on the principles involved in fixing salaries, and for addresses
by Prof. Irving Fisher on the purchasing power of salaries and by
Doctors McClung and Howe on the work of the National Research
Council; for the Smithsonian branch of the Federal Employees’
Union No. 2, and for various other groups of civil employees for
organizing, preparing data, and otherwise helping toward the class}-
fication of the Government forces in Washington, including Federal
workers interested in bookkeeping, accounting, and auditing, the
clerical force of the Department of Agriculture, the Federal pho-
tographers, the marine and stationary operating engineers, the sub-
committee on personnel of the reclassification committee, and mem-
bers of the Museum’s scientific staff.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Under the auspices of the Arts Club of Washington, a special ex-
hibition of illustrations of the famous bell towers of the world was
held in rooms 46 and 47 of the Natural History Building from Octo-
ber 2 to 31, inclusive. The Arts Club has undertaken to enlist the
cooperation of all lovers of freedom in furthering a plan to erect at
the Nation’s Capital a national peace tower with the largest and finest
carillon that the most expert bell founders of the world can provide,
as a tribute to the heroic resistance of Belgium, in recollection of our
dead and those of our allies, and in enduring commemoration of the
great victory won over imperialism.

An exhibition of drawings, photographs, and paintings illustrat-
ing the activities of the Air Service of the United States Army at the
front and in America was opened to the public from October 4 to
October 29, 1919, in the west north range, ground floor, Natural His-
tory Building. Capt. Otho Cushing was in charge of the exhibit.

The Museum library was increased by 1,932 bound volumes and
1,581 pamphlets, mainly obtained by gift and exchange, bringing the
total in the library up to 56,617 volumes and 88,690 pamphlets and
unbound papers. While there were no exceptional pieces contributed,
there was a collection of special importance—the personal library of
Dr. Charles D. Walcott. His intimate association with the paleon-
tological collections of the Museum makes the Museum sectional
libraries of vertebrate and invertebrate paleontology difficult of
duplication.

The publications for the Museum for the year consisted of the An-
nual Report for 1919; volumes 54, 55, and 56 of the Proceedings;
volume 21 of Contributions from the National Herbarium, Bulletins
Nos. 106 (text), 107, and 108, a very small edition of Bulletin No.
103, and 42 separate papers. The total distribution of Museum publi-
cations aggregated 81,936 copies.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

The number of visitors to the Natural History Building aggregated
321,568 for week days and 101,416 for Sundays. At the Arts and
Industries Building, which is open only during the week, the total
attendance was 250,982. The Smithsonian Building is ordinarily
only open to visitors on week days, but an exception was made for
a few Sundays in March and April, 1920, when there was on exhibi-
tion a series of exquisite water color paintings by Mrs. C. D. Wal-
cott of wild flowers, the attendance being 84,223 on week days and
1,790 on the five Sundays.

The most pressing needs of the Museum are those for additional
space for the ever-increasing collections and additional funds for
their classification and maintenance. Another year has only made
more acute these needs. Preliminary steps are being taken looking
to securing the erection of another building to house the great his-
torical collections of the Museum and the collections of the National
Gallery of Art. It will nevertheless be some years before relief can
be hoped for in this direction, even under the most favorable circum-
stances. The appropriations for the maintenance of the Museum for
1921 remain practically the same as those for 1920. Never were there
so many openings for advancement in industrial as well as scientific
lines, but under existing conditions the Museum is helpless. It is
not only prevented from developing collections in the various direc-
tions now offering exceptional opportunities, but it carries forward
existing work only by exercising the strictest economy.

Respectfully submitted.

W. peC. Ravene.,
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary,
In charge United States National Museum.

Dr. Cuarues D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2.

REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Str: In response to your request I have the honor to submit the fol-
lowing report on the field researches, office work, and other opera-
tions of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1920, conducted in accordance with the act of Con-
gress approved July 19, 1919. The act referred to contains the
following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including necessary employees and the purchase of necessary books
and periodicals, $42,000.

Ethnology is the study of man in groups or races and aims to
contribute to our knowledge of racial culture and advance our appre-
ciation of racial accomplishment. The researches of the Bureau of
American Ethnology deal with the aborigines of the United States
and the Hawaiian Islanders.

The material from which we may secure this knowledge is rapidly
disappearing or being absorbed into modern life. The culture of the
aboriginal inhabitants has in a great measure vanished, but modern
survivals still remain, and it is one object of the bureau to record
these survivals while this is possible, thus rescuing what remains as
a partial record of the culture of the race. This is essential in order
that our knowledge of the North American Indian may neither be
distorted by prejudice nor exalted by enthusiastic glorification.

In linguistics the necessity of recording those languages that are
in danger of extinction is urgent. Several of these are now spoken
only by a few survivors—old men or women—and when they die
this knowledge which they possess will disappear forever. Our
Indians had a large literature and mythology, which on account of
their ignorance of letters they did not record. This is rapidly being
lost, and it is our duty to secure the information at once before it
loses its aboriginal character. The lexical and grammatical structure
_ of the different Indian languages, their phonetic peculiarities, and
their relations to each other also require intensive studies, which
have been industriously pursued by the linguists of the bureau.

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

It is believed that the publications of the Bureau of American
Ethnology should be of such a nature that they may be studied with
profit by all intelligent persons and not so crowded with technicali-
ties as to repel all readers except a few specialists. While the bureau
publications should not be devoted solely to popular articles, they
fail to advance and diffuse ethnological knowledge if they are so
technical that they appeal only to one class of readers. The policy
of the bureau is to publish a limited number of technical papers, the
popular demand also being given due weight.

Important researches have been conducted by members of the staff
on the material culture of the Indians, one aim being to ascertain
the various fibers and foods used by them with a view to discover
hitherto unused aboriginal resources that might be adopted with
profit by the white man.

In order that the character of the habitations of the Indian might
be better known and an accurate knowledge of them disseminated,
illustrations of aboriginal buildings found in early maps and docu-
mentary records are being gathered and a series of publications on
this subject has been inaugurated. These, when available, are ac-
companied by the original descriptions of the buildings and inci-
dentally identifications of the sites of the larger villages so far as
possible.

The bureau has continued researches on the music of the Indians
with good results, as the past publications on this subject have at-
tracted the attention of musicians who are making practical use of
this knowledge in their compositions. There is a great demand for
strictly Indian music.

Archeology has been one of the important lines of research by
members of the bureau during the past year. Although the methods
of research of this science are somewhat different from those of the
ethnologist, the goal is the same.

It is urgent to gather all possible data regarding the ethnology of
the Indian prior to the advent of the white man, and where written
history is silent on this subject, leeends, monuments, and other pre-
historic remains are the only media to supply the unknown chapters
of history. As the national parks, like the Mesa Verde, and national
monuments, like the Chaco Canyon, containing the best examples of
this evidence, have been reserved for permanent protection, the bu-
reau is engaged in the scientific study of these remains in cooperation
with the National Park Service.

The function of the Bureau of American Ethnology is both to ad-
vance knowledge of ethnology and archeology by researches and to
disseminate information on all subjects concerning Indians. Much
of the time of the chief and the members of the staff is occupied in
replying to letters requesting this information. This in many cases
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

requires special knowledge of experts or extended studies in the
library. The administration and routine duties of the office have
also occupied much of the time of the chief.

The Great War has enlarged our view of the practical value of
ethnological studies. As our country has become a world power and
has entered into political and commercial relationships with many
other races whose ethnology is little known, it is desirable that the
ethnological researches of the bureau be enlarged in order that we
may better appreciate these foreign peoples. From necessity we
have limited our researches to the American Indian and the natives
of Hawaii. There is, however, an urgent call for more extended
studies of all peoples whose amalgamation will constitute the future
American.

In addition to purely official duties, the chief has devoted con-
siderable time to field work and the preparation of reports on
archeological researches. In the course of the year two visits were
made to the Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado—one in August
and September, 1919; the other in June, 1920. These researches, in
accordance with the above-mentioned act of Congress for the excava-
tion and repair of archeological remains, were in continuation of the
cooperative work of the Smithsonian Institution and the National
Park Service of the Department of the Interior, and were made with
an allotment from the latter for the excavation and repair of cliff
houses and other ruins on the Mesa Verde.

In the summer and autumn of 1919 the chief excavated and re-
paired Square Tower House, formerly known as Peabody House, one
of the most picturesque cliff dwellings of the park. The excavation
of smal] house sites situated among the cedars on top of the mesa
near the trail to Square Tower House was carried on simultaneously
by Mr. Ralph Linton, under the direction of the chief.

The work at Square Tower House has enlarged our knowledge of
the structure of cliff dwellings; that on small house sites contributes
to theoretical discussions of their genesis and evolution. The small
house sites on top of the mesa were interpreted as prototypes of kivas
in the large cliff buildings and are thought to be the ancient stages
in their development. The whole history of the evolution of hori-
zontal masonry can be followed by studies of various types of build-
ings on the Mesa Verde..

The two unique characteristics of Square Tower House are a
square tower situated in the middle of the ruin and the well-pre-
served roofs with beams intact on two of the ceremonial rooms, or
kivas. The repair of the tower was timely, as it had been feared for
many years that it would fall, since it has long been tottering. As
all friends of our antiquities would regard the destruction of this as
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

a calamity, it was strengthened and put in a condition for permanent
preservation.

The roofs of two of the eight kivas in Square Tower House were
almost intact and show the best specimens of aboriginal carpentering
in the park. Almost all of the original beams are still preserved,
and their arrangement shows how the aboriginal builders constructed
a vaulted roof. Especial care was exercised in repairing Square
Tower House to protect these roofs and preserve the beams in place
for examination by archeologists and visitors.

Small house sites are very numerous on top of Mesa Verde among
the dense growth of cedars, and two of these situated above Square
Tower House were chosen as types of the remainder for excava-
tion. The rooms uncovered on these sites may be called Earth
Lodges, and had sunken floors, with roofs now fallen in but origi-
nally constructed of logs covered with earth. One of these rooms,
called Earth Lodge A, was completely excavated, and in order that
the style of the most ancient habitation on the park might be seen
by visitors it was protected from the elements by a shed. Another
form of Earth Lodge, subterranean and probably of later construc-
tion, had stone pilasters like a cliff-house kiva for the support of a
domed roof, but its walls were made of adobe plastered in the earth.
It shows three periods of occupancy: (1) The original excavation, a
subterranean room constructed on the lines of the unit type of
kiva; (2) its secondary use as a grinding pit, by the introduction
of vertical slabs of stone making three grinding mills, the metates
of which were in place; and (3) a depression filled in with débris
containing human skeletons and other bones. It may thus have
served distinct purposes at different times.

The theoretical importance of Earth Lodge A is that it represents
not only the archaic type of building on the mesa but also resembles
those widely distributed habitations of nonpueblo tribes. It points
to the conclusion that when the ancient colonists came to the Mesa
Verde they differed only slightly from nomadic tribes and that their
descendants developed the craft of stonemasons long after Earth
Lodge A was inhabited.

Archeological work was renewed on the Mesa Verde in June, 1920,
and the work of excavating was begun on a ruin called Painted
House and:a neighboring cliff dwelling. The result of this work was
of great significance, for it brought to light a large cliff building
that showed no evidence of having been formerly inhabited. It
was not a cliff dwelling, but built for some other purpose. Its char-
acter points to the conclusion that this purpose was a temple for the
celebration of fire rites, or possibly the conservation of that fire from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

year to year. While there was found no evidence that anyone ever
lived in it, an adjacent cliff dwelling afforded every indication that
it was inhabited by at least two clans. New Fire House belongs to
the same group of ceremonial buildings as Sun Temple, except that
it is situated in a cliff and not on top of the mesa.

The features that have led to the identification of this ruin as one
devoted to New Fire rites are the large walled fire pit full of ashes
in the middle of the court and the resemblances of phallic and other
pictures on the walls of the rooms to those still surviving among the
Hopi in the New Fire cult.

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained in the office throughout
the year, engaged chiefly in the elaboration of material relating to
the Heraldry of the Kiowa and the Peyote Cult of the Southern
Plains tribes.

In connection with the preparation of the Denig Assiniboin man-
uscript for publication, a correspondence was carried on with mem-
bers of the Denig family and others for the purpose of gathering all
available information concerning the history and personality of the
author. A valuable complement to the Denig work is the German
manuscript journal of the Swiss artist, Friedrich Kurz, who visited
the upper Missouri in 1851-52, spending some months with Denig
at Fort Union. A copy of the original journal, now in the museum
of Bern, was made some years ago by direction of Mr. David I.
Bushnell, jr., who sold it to the bureau.

The usual amount of correspondence in answer to requests for va-
ried ethnologic information received attention. Among these may
be noted requests from the War Department for Indian designs for
regimental flags for two newly organized regiments.

In the latter part of October and throughout November, 1919, Dr.
John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was at Anadarko, Okla., where he
recorded about 270 pages of text in the Wichita language and 100
in Kichai, besides considerable vocabulary material in both. It
should be remarked that the Kichai language is rapidly becoming
extinct, being now spoken fluently by not over a dozen persons.

During the summer preceding this expedition he was engaged in
the extraction and card-cataloguing of words from his Natchez texts,
and after his return he prepared a grammatical sketch of the
Natchez language, complete as far as the material on hand will
permit, but withheld from publication for a final review with the
help of Indian informants. This language is now spoken by only
three persons.

He also completed a sketch of the Chitimacha language, the rough
draft of which had already been prepared, and began the extraction
and recording of words from his texts in the Koasati language,
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Part of his time has been occupied in correcting the proofs of his
Bulletin 73, on the Early History of the Creek Indians and Their
Neighbors.

Several hundred cards have been added to his catalogue of mate-
rial bearing on the economic basis of American Indian life.

Doctor Swanton completed reading the proofs of Bulletin 68, A
Structural and Lexical Comparison of the Tunica, Chitimacha, and
Atakapa Languages, and the bulletin was issued in December 1919.

The sketch of the Chitimacha language mentioned above, along
with a similar sketch of Atakapa previously prepared, is ready for
publication. Doctor Swanton has a much longer paper on the social
organization and social customs of the southeastern Indians, which
requires a little work for completion, but is withheld until the bulle-
tin, which it naturally follows, is through the press.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, took up the critical analysis and
constructive rearrangement of the three differing versions of the
Eulogy of the Founders of the League of the Iroquois, obtained by
him, respectively, from the late Seneca Federal chief, John Arthur
Gibson; the late Mr. Joshua Buck, Onondaga shaman, of Onon-
daga-Tutelo extraction; and chief emeritus Abram Charles, of the
Cayuga tribe—all of Ontario, Canada.

This Eulogy of the Founders is a very long chant and one of
marked difficulty to render accurately. In his report for last year
it was stated that the long-standing disruption of the several tribes
composing the league had led to the breaking up of the parts thereof
and loss of traditions concerning the principles and structure of
the league; hence there are differing versions of most important
rituals. In the tribal organization the Federal chiefs were organ-
ized into several groups with definite political relationships, which
differing relationships implied naturally corresponding differences
in duties and obligations for the several persons so politically
related.

But since the disruption of the political integrity of the tribes
of the league and of the league itself by the events of the war of
the American Revolution these relationships have become more or
less confused in the minds of the people, and hence the great diffi-
culty in determining from the informants of to-day the correct
sequence of the names and the exact political relationships subsist-
ing among the several chiefships. This accounts for the difficulties
encountered in editing the three variant versions of the eulogy.

In view of works recently published on the genetic relationship
of certain linguistic stocks of California and other North American
linguistic stocks, and as a result of a conference of the staff of the
bureau early in December on late linguistic work in California
Mr. Hewitt critically examined the methods and the evidences for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

relationship relating to the Yuman, the Serian, the Tequistlatecan,
Waicuran, the Shahaptian, the Lutuamian, and the Waiilatpuan,
claimed in recent publications by Doctor Radin and Doctor Kroeber.
In no instance did he find that these authors had proved their case.

Mr. Hewitt continued the preparation for publication of the second
part of Iroquoian Cosmology, Part I having already appeared in the
Twenty-first Annual Report of the bureau. He spent considerable
time in reading the manuscript dictionary and grammatical sketch of
the Chippewa language prepared by Father Chrysostom Verwyst, in
order to ascertain its value for publication and to enable him to assist
the author in a revision of the work; and prepared much data for use
in reply to requests by correspondents, often requiring considerable
time and most exacting work.

In June, 1920, Mr. Hewitt visited the Oneida Indians, residing in
the vicinity of Seymour and Oneida, Wis.

The purpose of this visit was to ascertain what information, if any,
these Indians retained concerning the principles and structure of the
League of the Five (later, Six) Nations, or even concerning their own
social organization, or the mythic and religious beliefs of their an-
cestors, which has not already been recorded by him, from other
sources. He found that these Indians had forgotten the great prin-
ciples and the essential details of the organic structure of the league,
of which the Oneida before their disruption by the events of the war
of the American Revolution were so important a member, due to the
adoption of lands in severalty about 1887, and the administration of
their public affairs under the laws of the State of Wisconsin.

He discovered that these Oneida spoke a dialect markedly different
from that of the Oneida with whom he was already acquainted and
succeeded in recording a text relating to hunting wild pigeons (now
practically extinct) at the time of “ roosting.”

From the Wisconsin Oneida Mr. Hewitt went directly to the Tona-
wanda Reservation to consult with Seneca chiefs, after which he pro-
ceeded to the Grand River grant of the Six Nations, near Brantford,
Ontario, Canada, and there obtained an interesting text in the Onon-
daga language, with a free English translation. This text embodies
an old Tutelo tradition of the manner in which the assistant to the
chief was established, and is reminiscent of the early raids of the
warriors of the Five Nations into the southern home of the ancient
Tutelo.

Information relating to the internal structure of the tribal organi-
zation of the several tribes was carefully revised, especially the place
of the several clans with regard to the symbolic council fire, and
therefore their membership in either the male or the female side of
the tribal organization. Certain sentences placed after every Federal
title throughout the Eulogy of the Founders—originally 49 in num-
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

ber—can not be understood without this definite knowledge of in-
ternal tribal organization, as there is constant danger of confusing
tribal with Federal relationships. The internal tribal organization
differed among the Five Nations and the knowledge of one or two is
not sufficient.

With the aid of Mr, Asa R. Hill as Mohawk interpreter and in-
formant, the work of the textual criticism of the Mohawk text of
the league material originally collected by Mr. Seth Newhouse, a
Mohawk ex-federal chief, was revised. Knowing that Mr. Newhouse
is a fine Mohawk speaker, Mr. Hewitt induced him to translate his
material back into the language from which he had rendered it into
indifferent English. This translation was not desired for publication
but to obtain the correct Mohawk terminology or diction for the ex-
pression of the ideas embodied in the material.

During the year Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, devoted
most of his time to the task of preparing for publication the manu-
script of the first volume of his work on the Osage Tribe. In Febru-
ary the text of the first volume was finished and the manuscript
placed in the hands of the Chief of the Bureau of American
Ethnology.

The volume contains two elaborate ancient rituals, the first of
which is entitled “ Ga-hi’-ge O-k’o", Ritual of the Chiefs”; and the
second “ Ni’-ki No®-k’o", Hearing of the Sayings of the Ancient
Men.” These rituals are rendered in three forms: First, in a free
English translation; second, the recited parts, also the words of the
songs, as given by the Indians themselves in their own language into
the dictaphone; third, a translation from the Osage language into
English as nearly literal as can be made. Owing to the peculiar
modes of expression used in the rituals by the Indians, such as
metaphors, figures of speech, tropes, and archaic terms, it is impossi-
ble to give an absolutely literal translation. Furthermore, much of
the language used in these rituals is in ceremonial style and not that
in daily use among the people.

On the completion of the manuscript of the first volume, Mr. La
Flesche took up the task of preparing for publication the manu-
script of the second volume.

Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, spent the months of July, Au-
gust, and September, 1919, on field duty in New Mexico in pursu-
ance of his studies of the ethnology and linguistic relationship of
the Southwest Indians. These studies resulted in a large amount
of most carefully heard textual, grammatical, and lexical material
from the Tano-Kiowan family of languages, the elaboration of more
than 750 pages of which was completed for publication before the
close of the fiscal year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

Important discoveries in connection with this work are that Zufian
is definitely added to the Tano-Kiowan-Keresan-Shoshonean stock ;
and that the religious-ceremonial words of Tanoan are largely bor-
rowed from Zufiian.and Keresan. This last discovery has proved one
of the most interesting features of the work, for, just as it can be
shown that the watermelon and muskmelon, for example, are not
native to the Tanoan Indians because designated by Spanish loan-
words or by mere descriptive terms, so it can be also demonstrated
linguistically that the Tanoans have adopted many features of the
Zufian and Keresan religion. Even such fundamental conceptions
as Wenima, the abode of the dead, and Sipapu, the entrance to the
other world, have been taken over by the Tanoans, e. g., as Tewa
Wayima and Sip’o phe.

At the close of September Mr. Harrington returned to Washing-
ton and was engaged during the remainder of the year in the elabo-
ration of his material. Mr. Harrington also performed various
office duties during this period.

In August, 1919, Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, renewed his
researches among the Fox Indians, which consisted exclusively of
working out a grammatical analysis of the Indian text of his manu-
seript on the White Buffalo Dance, in order to make a vocabulary
for the same. He returned to Washington near the middle of Sep-
tember, when he resumed his work on the Indian text, as well as the
vocabulary. The manuscript was submitted in March, 1920,

During the winter Doctor Michelson worked on the manuscript of
the White Buffalo Dance; he also spent some time on a rough transla-
tion of an autobiography of a Fox Indian woman written in the cur-
rent syllabary. This translation was based on a paraphrase in Eng-
lish written by Horace Poweshiek. In the middle of June he left
for Tama, Iowa, to restore the syllabary text phonetically, to further
work out a grammatical analysis to enable him to add a suitable
vocabulary, to elucidate a number of ethnological points, and to cor-
rect the translation in a number of places. By the close of the fiscal
year he entirely restored the text phonetically.

Tn addition, Doctor Michelson has furnished data for official corre-
spondence.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES,

Tn addition to the work of members of the staff mentioned in their
reports above, the bureau has employed others in ethnological and
archeological researches.

Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American archeology in the United
States National Museum, was detailed in June to complete a report
on his work for the bureau in previous seasons in southeastern Utah.
At the time of writing no report on this work has been received.

42803°—22——_5
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Miss Densmore resumed work on the Pawnee songs on September
1, 1919. Transcriptions and analyses of 58 Pawnee songs have been
submitted during the year. These comprise songs of the Morning
Star ceremony and of the Buffalo dance, the Bear dance, and the
Lance dance. In April, 1920, she visited the Pawnees a second time
and was permitted to enter the lodge during the Morning Star
ceremony and to see the contents of the “sacred bundle.” This
bundle is opened once a year. (It is said that only one other white
person has been permitted to enter the ceremonial lodge.) This
ceremony afforded an opportunity to hear certain interesting rituals
which are sung only at this time. cM 3

Three manuscripts on Pawnee music hile ns submitted during
the year. In addition to the ceremonial material above mentioned
these papers contain songs of war and of a game, as well as miscel-
laneous songs and those connected with folk tales. The Pawnees
were selected as representative of the Caddoan stock, according to
the plan of comparing the songs of the various linguistic stocks. +

About the middle of February, 1920, Miss Densmore began a study
of the Papago Irdians as a representative of the Piman stock. For
more than a month she lived at San Xavier Mission, a Government
station, among the Papago near Tucson, Arizona, and recorded more
than 100 songs, 25 of which have been transcribed, analyzed, and
submitted. Three subjects were studied—treatment of the sick, cus-
toms of war, and ancient stories. As examples of the psychology
revealed by musical investigation it may be noted that the Papago
state that all sickness has its origin in the anger of a mythical
“creator,” and that many of the songs used in treating the sick are
said to have been received from spirits of the dead.

Miss Densmore considers the chief points of the year’s investiga-
tion to be the evident contrast of songs of different linguistic stocks
and the increasing evidence that rhythm in Indian song is more
varied and important than melody. It is interesting to note that
the songs recorded by an individual Indian doctor showed similarity
in melodic material and formation, but a wide variety in rhythm.
The poetry of the words of Papago songs is of an unusually high
order.

In April, 1920, Miss Densmore visited the “ Mohave” Apaches
living at Camp MacDowell near Phoenix, Ariz., with a view to
recording songs among them next season, taking the Apache as the
representatives of the Athapascan stock.

In July, 1919, Miss Densmore visited the Manitou Rapids Reserve
in Canada to obtain data on the customs of the Canadian Chippewas
for comparison with the tribe in the States. She found an inter-
esting contrast in bead patterns and collected considerable informa-
tion on their general culture, August 14 to 30, 1919, she worked on
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

the botanical section of the book on Chippewa Arts and Customs,
this section comprising the use of plants as food, medicine, and
charms.

Mr. David I. Bushnell, jr., continued the preparation of his manu-
script for the Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Rocky
Mountains, and in the course of his work has prepared a bulletin
entitled “ Native Villages and Village Sites East of the Mississippi”
which has been published as Bulletin 69. He has also written Bulle-
tion 71, on “ Native Cemeteries and Forms of Burial East of the Mis-
sissippi,” the final proofs of which have been sent to the printer, but
the work has not yet been delivered to the bureau. The favorable
reception of these bulletins, as indicated by the many applications
made at the office for them, is gratifying.

Mr. Bushnell also gathered notes, maps, and pnotographs to be
used in the preparation of two manuscripts for the bureau. One
is to have the title, “ Villages of the Algonquian, Siouan, and Cad-
doan Tribes West of the Mississippi”; the second, “ Burials of the
Algonquian, Siouan, and Caddoan Tribes West of the Mississippi.”
The former is nearing completion, and both should be finished dur-
ing the next fiscal year.

The results of the archeological work in Texas under Prof. J. E.
Pearce, for which a special allotment was made, are important.
Reconnoissance work has been done in the eastern, middle, and west-
ern parts of the State. Indian mounds at Athens, in eastern Texas,
have yielded pottery akin in form and technique to that of the Mis-
sissippl, suggesting cultural connections which have as yet not been
completely traced. In western Texas the group of pictographs at
Paint Rock has been given especial attention. They are little known,
as they are at present seldom visited by tourists. This series of rock
pictures is important enough to be protected by law. The present
owner of the ranch upon which they are situated, recognizing their
importance will prevent vandalism.

The work was mainly on the antiquities of central Texas, where
intensive work was much to be desired. Professor Pearce, who has
charge of this work, believes that the mounds in this part of the
State are kitchen middens and that they were connected with the
first men who came into this region. He is also of the opinion that
the culture which they represent was much cruder than that of the
historical Indians; that they knew nothing of polishing stone or of
pottery making; and that for thousands of years they were the only
occupants of the open prairies and plains of central and west Texas;
and finally, that their life was little modified during the entire period
of the formation of the mounds, Professor Pearce’s report is so
promising of results that work in Texas will be continued another
year.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Although the aboriginal monuments called mounds and _ stone
graves of the Cumberland Valley have been investigated by several
well-known archeologists, it appears from the researches of Mr.
W. E. Myer, of Nashville, that much remains to be discovered in this
region. Under his guidance the chief visited the aboriginal mounds
on the Harpeth River at Oldtown, Castalian Springs, and elsewhere.
Tt was seen that while many of the smaller mounds have been plowed
down by cultivation of the land the larger ones still bear mute evi-
dence of the industry of the builders of these structures and the mag-
nitude of the population.

Mr. Myer has transmitted to the bureau a manuscript on the an-
tiquities of the Cumberland Valley, Tennessee, the results of a life-
long devotion to the subject.

Mr. Otto Mallery has presented to the bureau a valuable pueblo
collection from the Chama region, New Mexico, made by Mr. J. A.
Jeancon, who had charge of the work, and has transmitted a report
which is now being prepared for publication.

Mr. Gerard Fowke was given a small allotment for an archeo-
logical reconnoissance of the Hawaiian Islands. He began work in
May and reports important results which it is too early to detail at
this time.

MANUSCRIPTS.

The following manuscripts, exclusive of those submitted for publi-
cation by members of the staff of the bureau and its collaborators,
were purchased:

“ Wawehock Texts,” by Frank S. Speck.

“ History of the Jesuit Mission in Paraguay.” The original manu-
script, being an English translation by Dr. George Spence, from the
original French manuscript of the Abbé Jo. Pedro Gay, Curé de
Uruguayana. 2 vols., 4to. Circa 1880. 275 pp.

“A New Guarani Grammar,” the original manuscript complete,
being a translation into English by Dr. George Spence from the
French manuscript of the Abbé Jo. Pedro Gay, Curé de Uruguayana.
2 vols, 4to.

“Manuel de Conversation en Francais, en Portugues, en Espafiol,
en Guarany Abafieeme par le Chanoine J. P. Gay, Curé de Uru-
guayana,” arranged in four columns.

“ Nouvelle Grammaire de la Langue Guarany et Tupy, etc., par le
Chanoine J. P. Gay, Curé, etc.” 188 p., folio.

“Mappa geographico da republica do Paraguay pelo conego Joao
Pedro Gay, pelo engenhiero Falix Alx. Grivot.” 1881.

A copy of “Manuel de Conversation en Francais, en Portugues,
en Anglaise en Espafiol, en Guarany Abafeeme.” Arranged in five
columns. No date.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

In addition to those purchased Mr. Edward M. Brigham has sub-
mitted for publication a valuable manuscript with many plates on
“The Antiquities of the Marajo,” Brazil; and Mr. W. E. Myer, of
Nashville, Tenn., a manuscript on “The Antiquities of the Cumber-
land Valley of Tennessee.” “A Chippewa Bible History in manu-
script in four volumes. 8vo. A. D. 1896-1901,” was presented by
Fr. Chrysostom Verwyst, O. F. M.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS.

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances 8. Nichols. The status of the publications is presented in
the following summary:

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED,

Thirty-third Annual Report.—Accompanying papers: (1) Uses of Plants by
the Indians of the Missouri River Region (Gilmore) ; (2) Preliminary Account
of the Antiquities of the Region between the Mancos and La Plata Rivers in
southwestern Colorado (Morris); (3) Designs on Prehistoric Hopi Pottery
(Fewkes); (4) The Hawaiian Romance of Laie-i-ka-wai (Beckwith). 677
pp. 95 pls.

Three separates from the Thirty-third Annual Report.

Bulletin 60—Handbook of Aboriginal American Antiquities (Holmes).
3880 pp.

Bulletin 68.—Structural and Lexical Comparison of the Tunica, Chitimacha,
and Atakapa Languages (Swanton). 56 pp.

Bulletin 69.—Native Villages and Village Sites East of the Mississippi
(Bushnell). 111 pp. 17 pls. ;

Bulletin 70.—Prehistoric Villages, Castles, and Towers (Fewkes). 79 pp.
335 pls.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION,

Thirty-fourth Annual Report.—Accompanying paper: Prehistoric Island Cul-
ture Areas of America (Fewkes). 7

Thirty-fifth Annual Report.—Accompanying paper: Ethnology of the Kwa-
kiutl (Boas).

Thirty-sizth Annual Report——Accompanying paper: The Osage Tribe (La
Flesche).

Thirty-seventh Annual Report——Accompanying paper: The Winnebago Tribe
(Radin).

Thirty-eighth Annual Report.——An Introductory Study of the Arts, Crafts,
and Customs of the Guiana Indians (Roth).

Bulletin 67.—Alsea Texts and Myths( Frachtenberg).

Bulletin 71—Native Cemeteries and Forms of Burial East of the Mississippi
(Bushnell).

Bulletin 72—The Owl Sacred Pack of the Fox Indians (Michelson).

Bulletin 73.—EHarly History of the Creek Indians and their Neighbors (Swan-
ton). :

Bulletin 74.—Excavations at Santiago, Ahuitzotla, D. F., Mexico (Tozzer).
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Bulletin ——Archeological Investigations in the Ozark Region of Central
Missouri (Fowke).

Bulletin —.—Northern Ute Music (Densmore).

Bulletin ——Mandan and Hidatsa Music (Densmore).

. Bulletin —.—Handbook of the Indians of California (Kroeber).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS.

The distribution of publications has been continued under the
immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted by Miss Emma B.
Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

Annal reports and Separates. 6.2. 24 ee ee 3.3%
Bulletins and; Sevaraves.——— ee ee ee ee ee 12, 886
Contributions! to (North ‘American ‘ethnology 2) 2 2) = were te ee 32
Miscellancous publications. 222—. . 2225) os os SA ee eee 572

Motels Fle 2,1 Th gens on wero hnn aye eel iree ge sow ee ERE 16, 863

As compared with the fiscal year 1919, there was an increase of
5,380 publications distributed. Fourteen addresses have been added
to the mailing list during the year and 28 dropped, making a net
decrease of 14.

ILLUSTRATIONS.
Mr. De Lancey Gill, with the assistance of Mr. Albert E. Sweeney,

continued the preparation of the illustrations of the bureau. A
summary of this work follows:

Photographic prints for distribution and office use___-_____-----___-_-_--_ 500
Negatives of ethnologic and archeologie subjects_______=~_____+-+_-_____ 300
Negative films developed from field exposures___-___~__-___-_--___-=__=+_ 100
Photostat prints made from books and manuscript____----_____________- 250

ILLUSTRATIONS PREPARED AND SUBMITTED FOR PUBLICATION.

Photographs retouched and” otherwise: 22-2 ee 350

Tine rand: (colorugra wines ee ae Ae as es ee 215

MGSirahOn) POOLS COIL a= = on seme ee Oe eae tid PERN gh eS 1, 400

Lithographie proofs examined at Government Printing Office_______-_____ 5, 200
LIBRARY.

The reference library continued in the immediate care of Miss
Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Charles B. Newman.

During the year 820 books were accessioned, of which 140 were
acquired by purchase and 680 by gift and exchange. Volumes made
by binding serials are included in these figures. The periodicals
currently received number about 800, of which 35 were obtained by
purchase, the remainder being received through exchange. The
library has also received 260 pamphlets. ‘The catalogue of the bureau
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. iL

now records 23,380 volumes; there are about 14,508 pamphlets and
several thousand unbound periodicals.

Successful effort has been made to complete the sets of certain pub-
lications of scientific societies and other learned institutions. For the
use of the members of the staff there has been prepared and posted
copies of a monthly bulletin of the principal accessions of the library ;
also information has been furnished and bibliographic notes compiled
for the use of correspondents.

During the year the work of cataloguing has been carried on as
new accessions were acquired and good progress was made in cata-
loguing ethnologic and related articles in the earlier serials.

Attention has been given to the preparation of volumes for bind-
ing, with the result that 502 books were sent to the bindery. The
number of books borrowed from the Library of Congress for the
use of the staff of the bureau in prosecuting their researches was
about 400.

A pressing problem is the congestion of books on the shelves.
For some time the library has been overcrowded and we are now
taxed to find room for the current accessions.

The library is constantly referred to by students not connected
with the bureau, as well as by various officials of the Government
service.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections acquired by members of the staff of the
bureau, or by those detailed in connection with its researches, have
been transferred to the United States National Museum:

Archeological objects collected in Cottonwood Canyon, Kane
County, Utah, by Mr. Neil M. Judd, during the sities of 1919.
Accession 63841, 257 specimens.

Archeological objects (748) and skeletal remains (24) collected
for the bureau by Mr. Gerard Fowke from Miller’s Cave, Missouri,
during the spring of 1919. Accession 64150, 772 specimens.

Archeological collection, including human bones, from Sell’s and
Bell’s Caves, Pulaski County, Missouri, forwarded by Mr. Gerard
Fowke. Accession 64198, 83 specimens.

Archeological material from Texas, gathered from the surface by
eS. W. Beas and Prof. J. KE. Pearce i in the autumn of 1919. Ac-
cession 64248, 165 specimens.

Sei tasad. stones of Huastee culture, presented to ihe bureau by
Mr. John M. Muir, of Tampico, Mexico. Accession 64249, 5 speci-
mens.

Three fine hardwood bows and three ceremonial clubs from Brit-
ish Guiana, and a blanket of the Cowichan Indians (Salish), North-
west Coast. Accession 64327, 7 specimens.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Collection of archeological objects (262) and skeletal material (16
specimens), together with ethnologica of the Apache Indians (4
specimens), obtained in Arizona by Dr. Walter Hough during the
spring of 1919. Accession 64603, 282 specimens.

Collection of archeological objects (212) and two human skulls,
gathered by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, at Square Tower House and con-
tiguous ruins on the Mesa Verde National Park, Colo., in cooperation
with the National Park Service of the Interior Department in 1919.
Accession 64646, 214 specimens.

Archeological objects (446) and skeletal material (5) collected by
Mr. J. A. Jeancon in an ancient ruin near Abiquiu, New Mexico, for
Mr. Otto T. Mallery during the summer of 1919, and presented to
the bureau by Mr. Mallery. Accession 64885, 451 specimens.

PROPERTY.

Furniture and office equipment was purchased to the amount of
$162.73.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Personnel—The position of Honorary Philologist, held for sev-
eral years by Dr. Franz Boas, has been abolished.

Clerical.—The correspondence and other clerical work of the
office has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief.
Mrs. Frances 8S. Nichols assisted the editor.

There has been no change in the scientific or clerical] force.

Respectfully submitted.

J. Water Frewxes,
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology.
Dr. Cuartes D. Waxcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1920:

The congressional appropriation for the support of the service
during the year was $45,000, an increase of $10,000 over the amount
of the regular appropriation for 1919. This increase was made
necessary in order to meet the cost of transportation at the prevail-
ing high ocean freight rates on shipments of accumulated publica-
tions for certain countries. The usual allotment of $200 for printing
and binding was allowed by Congress. The repayments from de-
partmental and other establishments aggregated $4,992.96, making
the total available resources for carrying on the system of exchanges
during the fiscal year 1920 $50,192.96.

During the year 1920 the total number of packages handled was
369,372—an increase over the number for the preceding year of
98,512. These packages weighed a total of 496,378 pounds—a gain
of 204,460 pounds. These increases in the number and weight of
packages handled are accounted for by the fact that during the year
shipments were resumed to several countries with which exchange
relations were suspended during the war, concerning which a state-
ment will be made later in this report. It is gratifying to state that
the work of the office during the past year exceeded by 27,705 pack-
ages the number handled during the fiscal year 1914, just prior to the
outbreak of the World War.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
indicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight.
Sent. (Received.| Sent. |Received.
||
Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad..........- Sb i ht ae i O25 te eee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents...|.......... ZOU Ac oe ester 11,431
United States departmental documents sent abroad...........- 123 3345*(s5 52s. = 0G S020 1 Sa one a
Publications received in return for departmental documents... .|.......... STO |b ee ee 9,116
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad - . 56,484 |....2.. SR EM25, FSP OR ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States..................)-.---.-... ATpES4. odes. Lee 53, 940
| es
pee eas See oe ee ee eee en. Se 345, 120 24,252 | 421,891 74,487
RP SUTCCOUE eden eee ee Need oe ie  Se ee EN. Ay de 369, 372 496,378

73
74. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

Packages from foreign countries frequently contain more than one
publication. The returns from abroad, therefore, are larger than
would be supposed from a casual glance at the figures in the table.
Even allowing for this, there is still a disparity between the number
of publications sent and those received through the International
Exchange Service. This apparent one-sidedness, however, is largely
offset by the number of publications received by governmental and
other establishments in this country directly through the mails from
abroad. Several years ago (1907) the Institution brought this sub-
ject to the attention of the various bureaus of the Government and
offered to make a special effort to secure for them more adequate
returns for the publications sent by them through the Exchange
Service to foreign correspondents. While several offices took ad-
vantage of this offer, and a large number of foreign publications
were received for them by the Institution, many of the bureaus
stated that the quantity and value of the publications received, either
through the International Exchange Service or direct by mail, were
considered an equivalent for the documents sent abroad. Quota-
tions from some of the letters are given below:

Coast and Geodetic Survey.—Not all of our publications forwarded to foreign
addresses are sent. in anticipation of exchanges to be received by this bureau.
Many are sent to individuals from whom no return is expected. I take it that
in like manner many individuals, citizens of the United States, are favored with
publications of interest to them put out by foreign Governments. I think we
are now receiving all of the publications of other Governments in which we are
interested. Many of these reach us through the mails.

Weather Bureau.—lIt is believed that the bureau already receives adequate
returns from its foreign correspondents, most of whom send their publications
by mail direct.

Office of the Chief of Staff—Many of the exchanges are received by the War
Department from our military attachés abroad, all of whom have pouch service
through the Department of State, which probably accounts largely, if not en-
tirely, for the lesser number of packages received than sent.

Nautical Almanac Office—The Ephemeris, being issued every year, makes
the volume of our publications larger than that of most observatories, and on
that account anything like an equality in the number of packages exchanged
can not be expected.

Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.—The cause of the excess of
packages sent by this bureau through your exchange as compared with those
received for it is, as you are probably aware, that this department has no
adequate appropriation for the payment of postage on packages sent abroad
and is therefore obliged to avail itself of the lesser expense of sending them
through your Institution, while foreign Governments in most cases pay the
postage on exchanges and mail them direct to this bureau.

Surgeon General's Office, War Department.—The yolumes of the Index Cata-
logue, the only publication of this office now sent through the Smithsonian
Hxchange Service, have been forwarded annually to the libraries of the most
important medical and other scientific institutions in foreign countries—includ-
ing the universities in France and Germany—receiving, in return, the theses
and dissertations of the universities and such publications as the other insti-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

tutions issue. A very large number of exchanges are also received through
our agents in London, Paris, and elsewhere. The aid received from the Smith-
sonian Institution in forwarding and receiving these exchanges can not be
overestimated, but it is believed that we are receiving a full return for the
exchanges that are now being sent out.

United States Patent Ofice—yYour offer to endeavor to increase the foreign
exchanges of this office through your Institution is appreciated, but it is re-
ported to me by the librarian that we now receive all the publications which
are considered to be of value in the work of this bureau which can be secured
in that way.

Comptroller of the Currency.—The packages from this bureau sent through
the Smithsonian Institution are annual reports of the comptroller, practically
all of which are addressed to individuals or corporations, from whom no re-
turns are expected.

Bureau of Navigation, Department of Commerce—The bureau receives ample
return for its publications sent abroad. Indeed, in cost and in numbers our
foreign exchanges exceed considerably our publications sent abroad. I have
noticed, however, that it is the practice of our foreign correspondents to send
their packages, pamphlets, etc., directly to this bureau through the mails.

In my last report I stated that the service had not been put on
a prewar basis so far as the forwarding of consignments abroad was
concerned. Shipments are still suspended to Austria, Germany,
Montenegro, Roumania, Russia, Serbia, and Turkey. The opinion
was expressed in last year’s report that it was not advisable to for-
ward consignments to the above until the peace treaties with the
enemy countries were finally ratified by the United States and the
internal conditions in the other nations became more settled. Trade
relations having been resumed with Germany, Austria, and Hungary,
the Institution took steps to reopen exchange relations with them,
and just before the close of the year shipments to Hungary were
resumed. Montenegro and Serbia now form part of the Serb-Croat-
Slovene State, and the Institution has taken’up with the authorities
of that State the question of the interchange of publications. Inter-
nal conditions in Roumania having improved, the Roumanian author-
ities have been asked if they are ready to renew the exchange of
publications with the United States. Nothing can, however, be done
concerning the reopening of exchange relations with either Russia
or Turkey until conditions in those countries reach a more normal
basis.

The Bulgarian foreign office, in reply to a letter from the Institu-
tion concerning the reestablishment of exchange relations, writes,
under date of July 3, that the Bulgarian Government eagerly accepts
the proposal of the Institution. Shipments to that country will,
therefore, be resumed in the early part of the next fiscal year.

An exchange of publications was inaugurated during the year with
the Czechoslovak Republic, and the Polish Government will be
approached concerning the exchange of publications as soon as con-
ditions in that country become more settled.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Before the war shipments of international exchanges were made
to Finland through the Russian exchange commission at Petrograd.
Now that Finland has become an independent State, consignments
are being forwarded directly to that country.

The prompt dispatch of exchange consignments to foreign coun-
tries was greatly interfered with during the year, owing to railroad
freight embargoes and marine strikes. ‘Transportation of boxes to
New York was further interrupted, owing to the severe winter. Dur-
ing the latter part of the year railroad freight became very much
congested, especially in the vicinity of New York, which necessitated
the placing of a general embargo on all freight. This required the
suspension of the Institution’s shipments for over a month. The
official character of the work carried on by the exchange service was
brought to the attention of the railroad authorities with the request
that a permit be issued granting the Institution permission to for-
ward its material to New York for transmission abroad. When the
railroads began to exempt certain classes of freight from the embargo,
the Institution was given authority to send its consignments.

The Institution has, in a few cases, rendered aid to various estab-
lishments in procuring publications relating to some particular sub-
ject in which especial interest was manifested. I may refer to one
instance in this connection: The counselor in charge of foreign rela-
tions of the municipality of Prague wrote to the American Legation
in that city that he wished to establish better cultural and intellec-
tual relations between the University of Prague and the various
American universities, and that with that end in view he was desirous
of receiving catalogues giving the courses offered by those universi-
ties. The counselor also expressed a desire to receive documents con-
cerning the functioning of the governments of American munici-
palities and their methods of solving economic, social, and political
problems. ‘The matter was brought to the attention of the more im-
portant American universities and of the governments of the larger
cities in this country, from whom considerable material bearing on
the subject was received and forwarded to Prague.

In March, 1920, a letter was received from Dr. S. G. de Vries,
director of the Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque
de Université, Leyden, stating that on account of the condition of
his health he was unable to retain the management of the Dutch
Central Scientific Bureau (the Netherlands Exchange Agency), and
that Dr. H. H. R. Roelofs Heyermans, director of the Bibliotheque
de Académie Technique, Delft, had succeeded him in the manage-
ment of the Dutch bureau. Shipments for the Netherlands are there-
fore now forwarded to Delft. Doctor de Vries had been head of the
Dutch scientific bureau for 18 years, during which time the inter-
change of publications between the Netherlands and the United’
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 77

States was conducted in a most efficient manner, and I desire to
record here the Institution’s appreciation of his services in promoting
the interchange of publications between the Netherlands and the
United States.

The National Committee of the United States for the Restoration
of the University of Louvain in Belgium, which work is being con-
ducted under the direction of Dr. Herbert Putnam, Librarian of Con-
gress, collected and sent to the Institution for transmission to that
university up to March, 1920, over 12,000 publications. The forward-
ing of these publications required 102 boxes, measuring 767 cubic
feet and weighing 25,423 pounds. That shipment was the largest
single consignment ever forwarded through the Exchange Service
to any address at one time. It was greater than the combined bulk
of the shipments sent abroad during the entire year 1871. The Insti-
tution is still receiving books for the University of Louvain, and these
will be forwarded at a subsequent date.

Occasionally complaints are received from foreign correspendents
that transportation charges are made on packages sent to them
through exchange channels. Such a complaint was recently received
from an Egyptian correspondent. The subject was taken up with
the Government Publications Office at Cairo—the Egyptian Exchange
Agency—which replied that henceforth that office would deliver all
packages under Government frank free of expense to the recipients.
This action on the part of the Government Publications Office is very
gratifying, as one of the principal provisions of the Brussels Ex-
change Convention of 1886 would be defeated if any transportation
charges were exacted from consignees. While not all countries were
parties to that convention, most of them adhere to its provisions.
I may add in this connection that packages received from abroad for
distribution through the Smithsonian Exchange Service are sent to
their destinations by mail under Government frank.

During the latter part of the year a letter was received from the
Victorian Exchange Agency stating that the 16 boxes (Nos. 852-863,
9739-9740, 9794-9795) sent in its care under date of December 29,
1919, were lost at sea when the steamship M/arne was wrecked off the
coast of Panama. Four of these boxes contained the regular series
of United States governmental documents for deposit in the public
library of Victoria and in the library of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. Duplicate copies of these publications were forwarded to take
the place of those lost. The contents of two of the boxes were for the
Commonwealth War Memorials Library, and the Library of Con-
gress, the sender, has taken steps to duplicate the material. The re-
maining 10 boxes contained miscellaneous publications for various
addresses in Victoria. On account of the difficulty of determining the
contents of the packages contained in these latter boxes, it was deemed
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

best to let the matter rest until requests for the missing publications
are received from the addressees.

During the year 2,359 boxes were used in forwarding exchanges
to foreign agencies for distribution, being an increase of 1,556 over
the number for the preceding 12 months. While this is a very large
increase, the total number of boxes represents about the quantity
used during a normal year.

Of the total number of boxes forwarded, 342 contained full sets
of United States official documents for authorized depositories and
2,017 included departmental and other publications for depositories
of partial sets and for miscellaneous correspondents.

The number of boxes sent to each foreign country is given in the
following table:

Consigninents of exchanges for foreign countries.

{
Country. pny Country. ince
PAT PONG So ate cleima iain oi- Geis hae oe alse =e BO" PAMBICH -~ sence oan ciecee Sete oo se oe ee 5
Belgium tie. ERR eo Ol I 239 |||: Fapaml et eee eS see tes gae 95
BoOlivie.s: ost con pte boenee et eile ee Boil} MlOre8. eves dese hth dence teeeeg 2
BAZ oS eae = apes ators moses Seek 39) Mexico.) -ccesigecce rere at scaoter seme 6
PS IMUISCOIOMIOS «Soe eee eee cyt ane 9 |} Netherlands............-... sg seca detrah 64
BritishiGuignas: yuk ete. eee Boe 2')|| New South Waless2 V0.2. 222g 2s. et) 47
Canada anf. es astt Bia Se oe A SES 24.1) New ZealanG .. ter pe 238 te tee de 43
(C1rt) CEE RS SOne ae cote aaee Seem eee ae Zee || Nicaragua. son sa seee ena desc ee gee eee 5
(G1 aT ppc geen aah) ad Prec Bol PANOFWayoecce soc seeecc cnn cen ose Some 40
Colombis! LIAR ta Ge. PS 23) MParapiayocse. bt tet Pee Seay RE L
COSTA TRIGA cd ree tok SP Ri hee pe DCS a | 2d =) 2) ee nee ees See, OP ee ee Pee De 16
Cli ek APR R gee Sa See San emcee ep ere Gil Portugal. oS eee eee eee 26
WWGMIMAr Kt Sock oleae eee es see ee eee bam Queenslander a= -reseeee soe ee a eae noes 21
Ditch Guians fe HSE SIS AES 2H Salvatore See SI ee a,
(TEE: 10) Bae ee RRR LD SEY ONS OA STATS Sc hn cast at ech see ae le 4
1 BFA] 0) PIE ye eae aR ees Cs i a ie 104i |MSyo Thales Se SP See a ae eee nla 44
1 Ra EN Go pA A eee Str te A a LOM | Swedene os se sae Jags ores cee ae eee 87
ners cess Pete. Fete Lae. Sea Hera 253;:||sSwitzerland -3:22u4: . Sag ss: esi Ae 57
Great Britain and Ireland............... 48] Tasmania. jisc5 de oo a. oe OE ae ll
( CARES VETS Ry Sepa a i ot aD Sl aS 247 Sith AUSUL alas. Pt or ance eee 31
Guatemalatseg20- See 8. ee ore ee Gr | rinidad sosen 2 Lae eee eae 1
VAG. 21 Pye tb ceytr eas ee athe ke 8 || Union of South Africa... -....2 2.222.220. 39
IEROMQUTAS . Stee on eg ae 7 Mi | al O fie bal be ye See en pe ek ee eee See 21
1 AO EY ERT 7 RN Pa i a 1D) {| WVOUBZUGlasso2 26 mee ttecinds sees aeenie 17
Unda Fs sp Ses eae sesh eee ones 59] OVictoria Sas Lee See Nats: SESE YS Eee 66
Ltaly2t ge 21-8 eee aeeariees 2 at 110;}\ Western Australia’ . 23 ss¢eeb32- fee - 10

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of
the congressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901,
setting apart a certain number of documents for exchange with for-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

eign countries, there are now received for distribution to depositories
abroad 56 full sets of United States official publications and 37 par-
tial sets, two depositories having been added during the year, as
referred to below.

An arrangement for an exchange of a full set of official documents
between the Governments of Czechoslovakia and the United States
was entered into in the summer of 1919, but the details of transmis-
sion were not perfected until near the close of the fiscal year, and
the first shipment to that country will be made during the month of
July, 1920. It might be added as a matter of record that the con-
signment will consist of 25 boxes containing governmental docu-
ments received at the Institution since January 27, 1919, the Czecho-
slovak Government being requested to send to the United States
copies of its own documents covering the same period. It is under-
stood that the publications from this country will be deposited in
the Ministére de ]’Instruction Publique at Prague.

In August, 1919, the State of Rio de Janeiro was added to the list
of those countries receiving partial sets. The documents are de-
posited in the Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado do
Rio de Janeiro in Nictheroy.

Since Alsace-Lorraine has been restored to France the Biblio-
théque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg has been designated
as the depository of the partial set sent to that province.

The depository in Finland since that country established its inde-
pendence has been changed from the Chancery of Governor to the
Central Library of the State, Helsingfors.

A complete list of the depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AusTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AustTrRIA: Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

BaveEN : Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of Baden.)

Bavaria: Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Brucium : Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BraziL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. {(Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Cutie: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

Cruina: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bu-
reau of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLoMBiA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Deposito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cupa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana,
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Ministére de l’Instruction Publique, Prague.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Grascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Hairr: Secrétaire d’Etat. des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Huncary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

Inp1A: Imperial Library, Calcutta.

TretaAnp: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Iraty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Hmanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MAnttornaA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Bibliotheek van de Staten-Generaal, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Publie Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PortTuGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

PrusstA: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quersec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russta: Public Library, Petrograd.

Saxony: Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Srerpii: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

SourH AustrALtA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

Swepen : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwiITzZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale Centrale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TuRKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrortA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WtrrreMBerc: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA : Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg, Stras-
bourg.

Botivi1A: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiartigen Angelegenheiten.

British CotumBiA: Legislative Library, Victoria. ;

BritisH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara,

Butcarta: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

Cryton: Colonial Seeretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Co-
lombo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Heyer: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Central Library of the State, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hameure: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiartigen Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liserta: Department of State, Monrovia.

LourENcO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Ltseck : President of the Senate.

Mapras, Province oF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Marra: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

MonvTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NIcARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NorTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Prince EpwaArp IstAnp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RoumMAntA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

SatvaApor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Srrairs SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupH: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

Vienna: Biirgermeister-Amt der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS.

In the early part of the fiscal year the immediate exchange of the
official journal was entered into with the Government of Czecho-
slovakia. A complete list of the countries now-taking part in this
immediate exchange is given below:

Argentine Republic. France. Queensland.
Australia. Great Britain. Roumania.
Austria. Greece. Russia.

Baden. Guatemala. Serbia.

Belgium. Honduras. , Spain.

Bolivia. Hungary. Switzerland.
Brazil. Italy. Transvaal.

Buenos Aires (Province). Liberia. Union of South Africa.
Canada. New South Wales. Uruguay.

Costa Rica. New Zealand. Venezuela.

Cuba. Peru. ; Western Australia.
Czechoslovakia. Portugal.

Denmark. Prussia.

42803 °—22——6
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

It will be noted from the above that there are at present 37 coun-
tries with which this exchange is conducted. To some of the coun-
tries two copies of the Congressional Record are sent, one to the
Upper and one to the Lower House of Parliament, the total number
transmitted being 43.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES.

Since Finland became an independent State the president of the
Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors, has
offered the services of that delegation as the Finnish exchange
agency.

This offer has been accepted and consignments intended for that
country are now forwarded in care of the delegation.

Dr. Julius Pikler, of Budapest, whose services as Smithsonian
agent for Hungary were, owing to the war, discontinued June 30,
1917, until further notice, was reappointed Hungarian exchange
agent, to take effect July 1, 1920.

The Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais—the Dutch exchange
agency—formerly under the Bibliotheque de V’Université, is now
under the Bibliotheque de Académie Technique at Delft.

A complete list of the foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is
given below. Shipments to those countries marked with an asterisk
were still suspended at the close of the fiscal year.

ALGERTA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA : ComisiGén Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Lavalle 1216, Buenos
Aires.

AUSTRIA :* Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

AZORES, Via Portugal.

BELGIUM: Service Belge des Nchanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.

BouiviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

BrAzit: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BRITISH CoLonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial! Society, Georgetown.

BritisH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuLeariaA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CuHinA: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CotomsBiA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa RicA;: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutTcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.
Ecyrt: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Bulaq, Cairo.
FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.
France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.
GERMANY :* Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London.
GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
GREENLAND, via Denmark.
GUADELOUPE, vid France.
GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.
GUINEA, via Portugal.
Harti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huneary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Févarosi Telekértéknyilvantart6 Hivatal (City
Land Valuation Office), Kézponti Varoshiz, Budapest IV.
ICELAND, via Denmark.
InprA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.
Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.
JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
JAVA, via Netherlands.
KorEA: Government General, Keijo.
Liseri1A: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.
LourENco MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco, Marquez.
_ LuxemeBure, via Germany.
MADAGASCAR, via France.
Mapeira, via Portugal.
MonTENEGRO :* Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.
MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.
NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Acadé-
mie technique, Delft.
New Gurnea, via Netherlands.
New SoutH WaAtgEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.
_ Nicaracua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.
PanaMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Servicio de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones Seccién Consular
y de Comercio, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.
Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.
Perv: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.
PorTUGAL: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.
~RouMANIA:* Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Russ1a:* Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque, Pub-
lique, Petrograd.
SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Serpra :* Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bel-
grade.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Sparn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

SweEpDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwitzERLAND: Service des Bechanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale
Centrale, Berne.

Syrra: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TuNIS, via France.

TURKEY :* American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Union or SourH AFRICA: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrortA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture,
Bridgetown, Barbados.

Shortly after the close of the fiscal year, at the request of the Eco-
nomic Liaison Committee of the State Department, Mr. C. W. Shoe-
maker, chief clerk, and Mr. F. E. Gass, correspondence clerk, of the
service, appeared before that committee to give information concern-
ing the workings of the International Exchange Service.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Agsor,
Assistant Secretary,
In Charge of Library and Hachanges.

Dr. Cuaries D, Watcorr,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 4.

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1920:

The appropriation allowed by Congress in the sundry civil act for
the maintenance of the park was the same as for the preceding year,
$115,000, with the usual additional allotment of $200 for printing
and binding. With the cost of almost all of the supplies necessary
for the maintenance of such an establishment increasing constantly,
only a comparatively small part of this amount could be used for
repairs and improvements of any kind. Such permanent improve-
ments as were effected were made possible by the purchase of much
of the necessary material during the preceding year. The grounds,
roads and walks, buildings, and inclosures have, however, been kept
in good condition by the regular force of employees, although many
much needed repairs not actually urgent have been postponed. The
number of animals in the collection shows an increase over that of

last year; and the attendance reached a new mark of over 2,000,000

visitors.
ACCESSIONS.

Gifts—Animals to the number of 127 were presented by friends
of the park or were placed on indefinite deposit. It is gratifying
that the park is becoming more and more appreciated as the natural
depository for pet or captive wild animals no longer desired by their
owners. Many important specimens, including parrots and other
cage birds, reach the collection as gifts. The owners of such ani-
mals fee] that their pets will not only enrich the national collections,
but that they will have the most expert care and kindly treatment.

Most noteworthy among the gifts for the year are four accessions
from tropical America, which included several species: new to the
collection. Mr. W. J. La Varre, jr., of Washington, D. C., during
an extended trip up the Amazon River and some of its tributaries
collected a number of desirable animals, which he presented to the
park. Mr. La Varre’s collection included a specimen of the rare

_ black-headed ouakari monkey (Cacajo melanocephalus), a species

, 85 .
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

never before represented in the collection. This monkey is a mem-
ber of the only genus of short-tailed monkeys inhabiting the New
World, and is very seldom seen in captivity. The species is, un-
fortunately, like some others of the more delicate American monkeys,
very difficult to keep, and this specimen survived only two months
after its arrival in Washington. Other animals in the La Varre
collection were a brown capuchin monkey, two titi or squirrel mon-
keys, an ocelot, two margay cats, two snowy egrets, a scarlet ibis, an
orange-winged parrot, two yellow-winged paroquets, and four tui
paroquets. Mr. La Varre also brought to Washington with him
from Manaos, Brazil, a large specimen of the rare and curious mata-
mata turtle, presented to the National Zoological Park by his friend,
Mr. A. T. S. Hore, of Manaos.

A second accession from Brazil was from Mr. Edward B. Kirk,
American consular agent at Manaos. ‘This lot included three large
American egrets, a white-backed trumpeter, and two brocket deer.
The quarantine regulations in force at the time unfortunately pro-
hibited the landing of the deer, and these were returned to Mr.
Kirk’s place in Brazil. The white-backed trumpeter (Psophia
leucoptera) is very unusual in collections and is the most important
addition to the bird department made during the fiscal year.

Dr. W. M. Mann, of the Bureau of Entomology, during a short
stay in Honduras, collected a number of valuable and interesting
Central American animals, which he brought to the park on his
return. Included were a Mexican kinkajou, a mantled howler
monkey (Alouatta palliata), a paca, a Honduras squirrel, two
speckled agoutis, a Centra] American cooter, and a fine specimen of
Rossignon’s snapping turtle. Howler monkeys are exceptionally
difficult to keep in captivity, and this specimen, a young example,
did not long survive; but the remaining animals in Dr. Mann’s
collection are all in excellent condition.

Among the parrots received as gifts during the year were two
species never before shown in the park. These were the lesser
white-fronted parrot, presented by Mr. Alex Gregory, and the
blue-backed parrotlet, from Mrs. Samuel Spencer, Washington,
D.C.

Sixty individual donors contributed to the collection this year.
The complete list is as follows:

Mr. John L. Barr, Washington, D. C., red-winged blackbird.
Mr. Bert Brooks, Washington, D. C., two alligators.
Mr. John A. Buckley, Fairfax, Virginia, woodchuck.

Mr. Granville Christman, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mrs. E. L. Conn, Washington, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.
Capt. Robert G. Cook, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Col. J. A. Crane, Washington, D. C., cockateel.
Mr. F. I. Cusick, Washington, D. C., two barn owls.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

Mrs. C. E. Dornheim, Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

Mr. John W. Dudley, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Mr. D. L. Du Pre, Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Mr. W. A. Eaton, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. A. F. Enquist, Washington, D. C., two canaries.

Mr. Victor J. Evans, Washington, D. C., gray coatimundi.

Mr. Raymond T. Faunce, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Enos Ferguson, Washington, D. C., six starlings.

Dr. A. K. Fisher, Washington, D. C., chuck-walla.

Mr. H. Fitzinreuter, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Mr. R. F. Funkhauser, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Julian Greene, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Alex Gregory, Washington, D. C., lesser white-fronted parrot.

Miss Harriet Hackett, Baltimore, Maryland, double yellow-head parrot.

Mrs. Edith S. Hawes, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. F. K. Heindrich, Washington, D. C., two gray foxes.

Mr. A. T. S. Hore, Manaos, Brazil, matamata turtle.

Mr. C. J. Hornberger, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. L. M. Humphrey, Glen Echo, Maryland, queen snake.

Mr. Perry H. Jacob, Washington, D. C., Cooper’s hawk.

Mr. Hiram F.. Johnson, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. James S. Kerkendall, Louisville, Kentucky, ferret.

Mr. Edward B. Kirk, Manaos, Brazil, white-backed trumpeter and three Ameri-
can egrets.

Mr. J. A. Krentzlin, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Mr. W. J. La Varre, jr., Washington, D. C., black-headed ouakari, brown capu-
chin, ocelot, orange-winged parrot, scarlet ibis, two titi monkeys, two margay
cats, two yellow-winged paroquets, two snowy egrets, and four tui paroquets.

Mr. T. P. Lovering, Wilmington, North Carolina, coach-whip snake.

Mr. George Mackle, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Miss Genevieve Magee, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Dr. W. M. Mann, Washington, D. C., Mexican kinkajou, mantled howler monkey,
Central American paca, Honduras squirrel, Rossignon’s snapping turtle, Cen-
tral American cooter, and two speckled agoutis.

Mrs. A. D. Marks, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. J. C. Meyer, Washington, D. C., five canaries.

Mrs. Joseph F. Miller, Washington, D. C., soft-shelled turtie.

Mr. W. L. Peak, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Mrs. Winnie Harward Phillips, Washington, D. C., three chameleons, four
horned toads, and five whip-tailed lizards.

Mrs. Sylvanus Billings Pond, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mr. C. D. Reeder, Lorton, Virginia, barred owl.

Mr. B. H. Roberts, Washington, D. C., woodchuck,

Mr. Henry Roberts, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Washington, D. C., spotted turtle and two box tortoises.

Mrs. R. W. Shufeldt, Washington, D. C., painted turtle.

‘Mrs. Samuel Spencer, Washington, D. C., four blue-backed parrotlets.

Rear Admiral Benjamin Tappan, Altha Hall, Virginia, cardinal, red-and-blue-
and-yellow macaw, and blue-and-yellow macaw.

Mr. B. M. Taylor, Houston, Tex., two ringed turtledoves.

Miss L. F. Thompson, Washington D. C., alligator.

Mr. Richard E. Tiller, Washington, D. C., wood duck.

Maj. G. O. Totten, jr.,. Washington, D. C., Yucatan jay, cedar waxwing, blue
grosbeak, two Yucatan cardinals, two nonpareils, and three indigo buntings.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Mr. Titus Ulke, Washington, D, C., painted turtle.

Mr. Edward L. Weikert, Dickerson, Maryland, banded rattlesnake.
Mr. H. J. Wildeman, Titusville, Florida, barn owl.

Mr. Thomas Williams, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. W. N. Williams, Washington, D. C., chameleon.

Miss H. D. Wise, Washington, D. C., fish crow.

Births —F¥ifty mammals were born and 72 birds were hatched in
the park during the year. This record includes only such animals
as are reared to a reasonable age, no account being made in these
published statistics of young that live but a few days. The births
include 1 hippopotamus, 1 Indian water buffalo, 1 yak, 3 llamas,
1 guanaco, 1 tahr, 2 Indian antelopes, 2 American elk, 5 European
red deer, 1 barasingha deer, 1 hog deer, 4 Japanese deer, 1 fallow
deer, 3 Virginia deer, 8 raccoons, 4 prairie dogs, 2 Peruvian wild
guinea pigs, 3 great red kangaroos, | great gray kangaroo, 1 rufous-
bellied wallaby, and 4 rhesus monkeys. No record was kept of the
humerous domesticated guinea pigs and rabbits born during the
year. The birds hatched were of the following species: Florida
cormorant, black-crowned night heron, Canada goose, mallard, black
duck, wood duck, redhead, peafowl, and bob-white quail.

The hippopotamus was born on May 31; it is a thrifty male, and
is the second young from this same pair of animals. The nesting of
the redhead duck is the first record of the breeding of this species in
the park,

Hachanges.—In exchange for surplus animals born in the park
there were received during the year 7 mammals, 133 birds, and 5
reptiles. The mammals included a zebu and a Burmese stag from
the gardens of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, and 2 black
spider monkeys, 1 chacma baboon, 1 Canadian porcupine, and a snow
leopard from miscellaneous sources. Of particular interest among
the birds are many of the characteristic species of Europe: Wood
pigeon, blackbird, robin redbreast, bullfinch, hawfinch, yellowham-
mer, goldfinch, siskin, greenfinch, bramblefinch, and jackdaw. Neo-
tropical birds received in exchange include the black-necked screamer,
upland goose, roseate spoonbill, white ibis, seedeater, yellow-backed
cacique, Yucatan jay, blue tanager, red-crowned parrot, and Mexican
green macaw. Species new to the collection from Asia are the
Baikal teal and the silver-eared hill-tit. One of the most valuable
birds received in exchange is a fine example of the single-wattled
cassowary, which is apparently referable to a little-known species,
Casuarius philipi, of New Guinea. Five specimens of a large South
American lizard, 7upinambis teguixin, were also added to the col-
lection.

Purchases.—The lack of sufficient funds for the purchase of ani-
mals made it impossible to add to the collection many desirable
species offered for sale from time to time. Four young harbor seals,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

a Brazilian ocelot, and a collared peccary from Texas were the only
mammals bought during the year. A few waterfowl were pur-
chased for the North American lake, including 2 blue geese, 4
Hutchins’s geese, 1 canvasback duck, 3 lesser scaups, 2 gadwalls, and
4 male shoveller ducks. A few native birds of prey and a single
pine snake were also purchased.

Transfers—The Biological Survey of the Department of Agricul-
ture contributed to the collection some important animals taken for
various purposes by its field agents. 'The most valuable of these is a
lot of 6 little brown cranes (Grus canadensis), a species not hitherto
exhibited in Washington. Other animals transferred from the
Biological Survey were 9 western box-turtles from the Chiracahua
Mountains, Ariz.; 2 great horned owls from Long Island, N. Y.;
and a collection of small mammals, including species of Peromyscus,
Microtus, and Perognathus. In. cooperation with the State Live-
stock Board of Utah, the survey also contributed, through Mr.
George E. Holman, 2 young gray wolves from Grand County, Utah.

Captured in the park—Two Virginia opossums and 30 small
birds, captured in the park, were added to the collection. Among
the more interesting birds so taken are examples of the European
starling and Baltimore oriole.

Deposited —The most interesting specimens received on deposit
during the year are a fine male Brazilian brocket from Mrs. Lindon
W. Bates, New York City; and an American marten from Mr. Ernest
Thompson Seton, Greenwich, Conn. Eighteen alligators were car-
ried over winter for the Pan American Union.

REMOVALS.

The surplus animals sent away in exchange during the year num-
bered 54, of which 29 were mammals and 25 birds. The exchange
value was $3,017.50, as compared with $3,240.70 worth of animals ex-
changed in 1919. Most of the surplus animals were born in the park,
and the shipments included 6 bison, 3 barasingha deer, 3 red deer, 5
Japanese deer, 1 hog deer, 4 llamas, 2 guanacos, 2 gray wolves, 3 red
kangaroos, 4 peafowl, 3 golden pheasants, 10 Canada geese, 1 Man-
darin duck, 1 bald eagle, and 6 black-crowned night-herons. A num-
ber of animals on deposit were returned to owners.

The death rate during the year, while slightly above that of 1919,
was nevertheless very low, and was approximately equal to that of
1918. The specimen of the rare brown hyena (Hyena brunnea) de-
posited in the park by Mr. E. S. Joseph in September, 1917, died of
acute pneumonia on November 14, 1919. The male Philippine deer
(Rusa philippinus) presented to the park October 17, 1904, by Ad-
miral Robley D. Evans, died of senile cachexia October 22, 1919.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

This animal was at least 4 years of age when it arrived at the park
and was therefore fully 19 years old at the time of its death. The
Grevy’s zebra stallion, presented by Emperor Menelik, of Abyssinia,
to President Roosevelt, which reached the park November 24, 1904,
died, after over 15 years of life in Washington, on December 4, 1919.
A pair of Japanese monkeys, received August 4, 1904, fully adult at
the time, died during the year, the female on December 7, 1919, and
the male on January 21,1920. Autopsies in both cases showed splenic
tumor as the immediate cause of death. A California lynx died
from pyemia on September 23, 1919, almost 14 years after the date
of its arrival, October 19, 1905. A female coyote, received April 26,
1906, was mercifully killed on June 10, 1920, as it was virtually
helpless with disabilities of old age. An aged female Florida otter,
received July 20, 1907, died on March 20, 1920, almost 13 years after
its arrival in the park. Among birds long in the collection, a dem-
oiselle crane, received July 2, 1903, was accidentally killed October
18, 1920; a crowned crane, received on May 25, 1905, died from en-
teritis December 26, 1919; and a red-and-blue macaw, received Janu-
ary 26, 1907, died on September 8, 1919.

Other serious losses during the year include a wombat, from
pneumonia, August 5, 1919; the waterbuck, killed as unfit for ex-
hibition, on November 5, 1919, after nearly 10 years of life in the
antelope house; a hornbill, from enteritis, August 19, 1919; and our
last specimen of the blue-headed quail dove, January 16, 1920.

Post-mortem examinations were made by the pathological division
of the Bureau of Animal Industry and, in two cases, by the Army
Medical Museum. The following list shows the results of autopsies,
the cases being arranged by groups:

CAUSES OF DEATH.
MAMMALS.

Marsupialia: Pneumonia, 1; tuberculosis, 1; pyemia, 1; peritonitis, 1; multiple
tumors in lungs, 1.

Carnivora: Pneumonia, 2; gastroenteritis, 6; pyemia, 1; metritis, 1.

Rodentia: Tuberculosis, 1; enteritis, 1; hepatitis and nephritis, 1.

Primates: Pneumonia and gastroenteritis, 1; enteritis, 1; gastroenteritis, 1;
colitis, 1; dysentery, 1; tumor of spleen, 2.

Artiodactyla: Tuberculosis, 2; colitis, 1; fermentation colic, 1; senile cachexia, 1.

Perissodactyla: Acute gastroenteritis, 1.

BIRDS.

Ciconiiformes: Septicemia, 1; impaction of proventriculus, 1; accident, 2.

Anseriformes: Tuberculosis, 4; enteritis, 5; impaction of proventriculus, 1;
anemia, 2; septicemia, 4; pericarditis, 1; no cause found, 2.

Falconiformes: Tuberculosis, 1.

ee a ee ee eee er a - mae

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9]

Galliformes: Inflammation of rectum and cloaca, 1; anemia, 1; pyemia, 1;
necrosis of ceca, 1; sarcoma, 1; accident, 1; no cause found, 2.

Gruiformes: Tuberculosis, 1; enteritis, 1; no cause found, 1.

Charadriiformes: Catarrhal enteritis, 1.

Psittaciformes: Tuberculosis, 1; enteritis, 3; gastritis, 1.

Coraciiformes: Enteritis, 1; no cause found, 1.

Passeriformes: Tuberculosis, 1; catarrhal enteritis, 1; no cause found, 4.

. REPTILES.
Serpentes: Enteritis, 1.

Thirty-nine specimens, including 15 mammals, 21 birds, and 3 rep-
tiles, of special scientific importance were transferred after death to
the United States National Museum for permanent preservation.
Two monkeys, especially desired for study, were sent immediately
after death to the Army Medical Museum. Skins of birds to the
number of 25 were added to the collection of “ dealers’ cage birds”
kept for reference in the office of the superintendent, National Zoo-
logical Park.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920.

MAMMALS,
MARSUPIALIA. CARNIVORA—Continued.

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virgin- Florida bear (Ursus floridanus)_ ~_-__ 2
a Ell SN ee SG gee ee 3 | Glacier bear (Ursus emmonsii)___—-_ 1
Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus  har- Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) _____ 1
25 ecg ae na a a ea 2 | Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus)___---~ 1
Australian opossum (Trichosurus vul- Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus)___ 2
ae 7) Sat Ss Ee a al 3 |} Dingo, (Canis. dingo) __.______--__+- 1
Dusky phalanger (Trichosurus fulig- Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris)__~____ 2
LE TSS SS hel ll I AG SI a 2) Gray wolf (Canis. nubilua)_._-.___ =~ 10
Brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale Southern wolf (Canis floridanus) —-___ 1
PAR TURE MERSEECL ot ee ne Ne ee 3 | Woodhouse’s wolf (Canis frustror)_—__~ 2
Black-tailed wallaby (Macropus Dil- Coyote (Canis. latrans) 2... 2. 2
RANTS) le et eet 5 Red fox, ( Vaipes, fulva) 22 5
Parma wallaby (Macropus parma) -_-_-~ 1 | Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) _ 6
Black-tailed wallaby (Macropus bi- Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus)____ 2
ET) Ee EE Ce ee ee eee 4; || Raccoon (Procyon totor) —_2-22=s-+= 15
Great gray kangaroo (Macropus gigan- Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)____ 2
(LHI E)) ) ot ee SR Eee eS Ba Seer PE 4 Kinkajou (Potos flavus)._.2.5-—-5.— 2

Black-faced kangaroo (Macropus mel- Mexican kinkajou (Potes flavus az-
CEA) eS CA ee ae ee ey 2 LECUS) oe ee > ee ee 1
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)—_____ 1 Marten (Martes americana)_________ 1
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) 3 | Herret “(iustela“furo)= 2-2 === ese 1
Tayra, (Payra, barbara) 2) — == see 1
CARNIVORA. Skunk (Mephitis nigra)___________u 1
American badger (Yaridea tavus)--__ 2
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorfi)..._ 1 | European badger (Meles meles)_____ 1

Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas)_. 2 | Florida otter (lutra canadensis
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli)_~________ 1 VUGG) =a awa ee ee 2
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi)~-___~ 2 | African civet (Viverra civetta) __--_ 1
European bear (Ursus arctos)—~------~ 4 | Genet (Genetta genetta)____________- |
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis)______ 2 | Spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) —---_ 1
Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) —~~_--__ 1 | Striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena) ~_---- 2
Himalayan bear (Ursug thibetanus)__ 1 | African cheetah (Acinonyzx jubatus)__ 2
Black bear (Ursus americanus) ______ 3 lon Ch elis. (eo) == ee ee 4
Kenai black bear (Ursus americanus Bengal tiger (felis tigris)___._._____- 1

Mmerniger) == = Oe SEE 2 8 een 1 | Manchurian tiger (Felis tigris longi-
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus MAIR G ye oS oe ees et ed 2

GUInGNOMUMN) == sao ee ce wnt

bo
3
S
©
5
a
~«~
yy
Es)
~~
aS
3
Ss
3
7
=
a
~"
92

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920—Continued.

MAMMALS—Continued.

YARNIVORA—continued.

East African leopard (Felis pardus

RUCHEUCO) 2 Fae a eee es
Japuar. (Melis .onea) 25 = eo
Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalis brasil-

AONSAR es Se ee ee
Margay cat (Felis. tigrina) --_____-_--
Snow leopard (felis uncia) __---~----
Mexican puma (felis azteca) —~__-__-
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes)_——_~
Canada lynx (Lyna canadensis) —~~--~~
Northern wild cat (Lynw winta)—-~--~
Bay lynx (UOyneenus)—e— ae

PINNIPEDIA,

California sea lion (Zalophus califor-
AONE ss EAE eee SS 2 ee ee
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina)—___--~-~

RODENTIA,

Woodchuck (Marmota monar)_—__-___~
Dusky marmot (Marmota flaviventris

OUSCULG) —— 2 ee
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) __
Honduras squirrel (Sciurus boothie_)_
Fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) —~----_~
Albino squirrel (Sciwrus carolinensis) —
Dusky pocket mouse (Perognathus

flavescens. perniger) — oe
American beaver (Castor canadensis) —
White-footed mouse (Peromyscus leu-

copus~ noveboracensis) ~~ L222

Montana white-footed mouse _ (Pero-
myscus leucopus aridulus)_—_-_-~--~
Nebraska white-footed mouse (Pero-
myscus maniculatus osgoodi)_---__-
Canadian porcupine (Hrethizon dorsa-
LALIT Ea OEE SRE AE ee ee er
Yellow-haired porcupine (Hrethizon
Cpigant hun) aa See eee 2 ee
Coypu (Myocastor coypus)——~--__----
Paca —(Cuniculus. paca). -
Central American paca (Cuniculus
DUC VEO OTS) en er eer he
Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta meai-
COVE) yaa Stine woe 1 NN AA es Me
Speckled agouti (Dasyprocta punec-
LTO II Ay ayer Se pe ly ey Le ghee NE Se

Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azarae) ___
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) _—
Peruvian guinea pig (Cavia tschudii

5 IYER EG IST 23 Jesper ee eet ane asia meget nll
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) ~—-_~
Capyvbara (Hydrochoerus hydrochae-

LAGOMORPHA,

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-
Twa ae ah es etree

ee

NWwWNHNNHHeH

hm bo

A

Nore De

bo bo bo co

|

Virginia

PRIMATES.

Black spider monkey (Ateles ater) __~
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoff-

DOUG) ee es kp
White-throated capuchin (Cebus capu-

Cialis) 22 oe ee | eget SEER
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatwellus) __~
Margarita capuchin (Cebus marga-

Hamadryas baboon (Papio hama-

COTY GS Ade SL ee oe ee eee ee
Mandrill (Papio sphinaz)__--___---__
Drill (Papio leucopheus) ----_-____--
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus mau-

Brown macaque (Macaca speciosa) —__
Burmese macaque (Macaca anda-

MOaNENSIS) 2 ee ee ee eee ee Sees
Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) _——~__~
Bonnet monkey (Macaca sinica)_—--~~
Javan macaque (Macaca mordagr)____

Philippine macaque (Macaca sy-
4ECTUT G)) a ae we RA Sd es SNe eee
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligin-
OB US) RE Pe en Oo west a A eR es
Green guenon (Lasiopyga  callitri-
ChUS) eee ee en eee
Vervet guenon (Lasiopyga pyge-
PYLRTA) See Se ee a ee
Mona (Lasiopyga mona)___--_______
Roloway guenon (Lasiopyga_ rolo-
OO ya a ae ae a

Patas monkey (Hrythrocebus patas) ——
Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) ______

ARTIODACTYLA.

Wild boar (Sus-s¢rofa).- eee
Wart hog (Phacocherus e@ethiopicus) —_
Collared peccary (Pecari angulatus)_—
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus am-

DheGiis)). We ee) POTEET ee eer
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius )-—
Guanaco (Lama huanachus) —~~-~___~
Elama...(Lamae\gtama) &ete ee ee ae
Alpaca. (Lama pacos) 222 = oie eh ee
Vicuna (Lama vicugna)__—_________—
Fallow deer (Dama dama)___-------
Axis deer: (Azis aris) 22> eee
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus)__--~
Sambar (Rusa: unicolor) —~+ == ~_
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii)___
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii) —____~
Japanese deer (Sika nippon) ~~~--~-~-~
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)___—-____
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglu)_—-—-~
Bedford deer (Cervus xranthopygus) —~
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ——~
deer (Odocoileus  virgin-

i wi

ee

Noe

ee pe

Rhee

tod
DAR OHEPANANOR RRP RH OW pd &

ho

——
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920—Continued.

MAMMALS—Continued.

ARTIODACTYLA—continued.

Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus)—--~
Black-tailed deer (Odocoileus colum-
(ity TS) a is 2 eee sence © ee
Brazilian brocket (Mazama_ simplici-
Para pene eae, So eh, BT a ae
Prong-horned antelope (Antilocapra
REPINGHROUMAL oso a
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons)——~--~~
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnou)_
Indian antelope (Antilope — cervi-
MCORT AMER) axes Soe FAS tga Ree ty
Nilgai (Boselaphua tragocamelus) ——_-
Hast African eland (Taurotragus
orya livingstonii) —~— = _—-—~-----—
Angora goat (Capra hircus) ~-------~-
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus) ~---~-~
Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) -------~--
Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis cana-
7.7 Ee ee ee aes ae
Arizona mountain sheep (Ovis cana-
ARR GALLON OL) oe
Barbados sheep (Ovis aries) -----_--_-~

RATITS.

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
tralis)
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
phanes)
Rhea (Rhea americana) _____---__---
Sclater’s cassowary (Casuarius phil-
COTS feet ea SIE eam Ea RS se ea nS
Emu (Dromiceius novehollandie)

CICONIIFORMES.
American white pelican (Pelecanus
BULRTOTnRYNChoOs) —2——-——
European white pelican (Pelecanus
OROCTOLHLUS) (2. et a eS

Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ~~~
Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspic-

illatus)
Brown pelican

talis)
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoragr au-

ritus floridanus),.__2 2.22.
Great white heron (Ardea occiden-

talis)
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) —_~
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath) ___-_--~
American egret (Casmerodius egretta) —
Snowy egret (Egretta candidissima) —
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticoragr

nycticoraz nevius).______.__._...._—
Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius) __--
White stork (Ciconia ciconia)____---_
Black stork (Ciconia nigra)__-_---~-
Straw-necked ibis (Carphibis  spini-

OIG) anes eee Ste Res Ser” AIT

(Pelecanus occiden-

o>

ARTIODACTYLA—continued.

Yebu (Bes widicus)y a2 - Pisa. Henin
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)_—______-
American bison (Bison bison)____--~_
Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)_____

i
PERISSODACTYLA.
1
1 | Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) —_
1 | Mongolian horse (Lquus przewalskii) —
Grant’s zebra {Equus burchelli granti)—
8 | Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi)_-----~
2 | Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus_ grevyi-
cabalius) — === Se
3 | Zebra-ass hybrid (Hquus grevyi-asi-
z NUS) oS ee
3
1 PROBOSCIDMA.
5 | Abyssinian elephant (Lewxodonta afri-
CONG, OTUOLIS) «= SoS — ot Bot
1 Sumatran elephant (EHlephas sumatra-
5 MUS) eee toe ot her Ree
BIRDS.
CICONIIFORMES—continued.
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis ethiopicus)-—
4 | White ibis (Guare alba) -__-_--_----~-
Scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) ----------
1 | Roseate spoonbill (Ajaia ajaja)_---~-~-
2 | European flamingo (Phenicopterus
AO SCIES fe eee ee ee ee
1
2 ANSERIFORMES.
Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) —~---~~
East Indian black duck (Anas platy-
PTTCILOS, VOR 3) ae se
9 | Black duck (Anas rubripes) _--_____-
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus)——~
2 | Huropean widgeon (Mareca penelope) —
2 | Baldpate (Mareca americana) _----~-~
Green-winged teal (Nettion  caro-
2 ERTECTUSC ot eee er ee ee
European teal (Nettion crecca) —~---__
2 | Baikal teal (Nettion formosum)_____-
Blue-winged teal (Querquedula dis-
20 COP eae ee ee ee ee
Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) —
1 | Cinnamon teal (Querquedula cyan-
1 Ey NG gb 3) Ce pe et ol ita Hi aaa
1 | Ruddy sheldrake (Casarca ferruginea)
3 | Shoveller (Spatula clypeata) _-------~-
a} Pintail (Dafila’ acuta)—__——_——~
Wood duck (Aiwv sponsa) _-__________
30 | Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galeri-
2 CUTGLG)\. ee ee ee
2 | Canvasback (Marila valisineria) ----~
1 | Redhead (Marila americana) _-------
Ring-necked duck (Marila collaris) —~~
1 | Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis)_--

93

eb

HO

he
aon

Seow o
94

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920—Continued.

BIRDS—continued.

ANSERIFORMES—continued.

Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-

8000) a te eee seta
Snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) —~---~
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus

AD OILS) (2 Rieke aoe ee
Blue goose (Chen cerulescens) ~------
White-fronted goose (Anser albifrons) —
American white-fronted goose (Anser

albifrons gambelt)\ 22-228 Soles
Bar-headed goose (Hulabeia indica) —-
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) ~~
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis

hutchinst): 22s ee ae ee lees
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis

Minima)» s=28eneohe ee seee cetera lS
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra) —
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) —~_--
Spur-winged goose (Pleetropterus gam-

bensis)
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna

autumnalis)
White-faced tree duck (Dendrocygna

TULLE CE) | ee a eS Se a ne See Se ae
Coscoroba swan(Coscoroba coscoroba) —
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)---------
Whistling swen (Olor columbianus) ~~
Trumpeter swan (Olor buccinator) ——-
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)_------

FALCONIFORMES.
South American condor (Vultur
GEDA Se ne ere ee
California condor (QGymnogups cali-

fornianus)
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) —----
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu)—----
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) ——-
Secretary bird

tarius)
Griffon yulture (Gyps fulvus)_------
Cinereous vulture (Aegypius mona-

Cooper’s hawk (Accipiter cooperi) ---
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audaz)—
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) ----~
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) —
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leucece-

DRGUES _CLaSCOnts) == ee
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) ----
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius)—---

GALLIFTORMES.

Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu)-—--
Mexican curassow (Craa globicera) —_
Chicken-guinea hybrid (Gallus X Nu-
mida)
Wild turkey (WVeleagris gallopavo sil-
vestris)

(Sagittarius serpen- —

bw

[os i)

te wa be

>)

C2 me Hee OO

bo bk RB ce Lad

me

GALLIFORMES—continued.

Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) i-—-
Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron bical-

CONOHUM ) eer tS ee Le
Silver pheasant (Genneus nyctheme-

Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus tor-

OUQUUS) npn ee on ol
Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) _—~---
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) ___
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyx gambelii)—
Valley quail (Lophortyx californica

vallicola)

GRUIFORMES.

American coot (Fulica americana) —--

South Island weka rail (Ocydromus
QUBTEEIS Soe = en Oe ee
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus
OF ACT DECTILS) a ee

Earl’s weka (Ocydromus earli) -------
Whooping crane (Grus americana) —--
Sandhill crane (Grus mewicana) _-----
Little brown crane (Grus canaden-

SOB) chien Sl ee
White-necked crane(Grus leucauchen) —
Indian white crane (Grus leucogera-

NUs)
Lilford’s crane (Grus lilfordi) _.----~
Australian crane (Grus rubicunda) —-~
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) _
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) —
White-backed trumpeter (Psophia leu-

CODECIG) ) Seces s Bp ha ce
Cariama (Cariama cristata) __-_-_-----

CHARADRIIFORMES.

Great black-backed gull (Larus mari-
nus)
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)—----
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) _--_-_-
Australian crested pigeon (OQcyphaps
lophdtes)\y eee Sh ee eee
Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps chalcop-
tera) See. Ae ey eee
Wonga-wonga pigeon
picktay azar kee eh ee eee
Wood pigeon (Columba palumbus) ~~
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) _------~
Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia hwmer-
alis)
Inca dove (Scardafella inea) _---___--
Ringed turtledove (Streptopelia ri-
soria)

PSITTACIFORMDES.,.

Kea (Nestor notabilis) ____-.--~..--.
Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe roseica-
pilla)

Dee

BOP HE FEO

a

ia

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920—Continued,

BIRDS—continued.

PSITTACIFORMES—continued.

Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoe gym-
MODUE eee). SOT Re _ OSS S _
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Kakatoe lead-
peatert) LO et Bho mse. Jets

White cockatoo (Kakatoe abla)__----

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe
Gmterie@) SOG seh Emme A ee
Great red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe
motuocenis). 2. Se a ae

Mexican green macaw (Ara mevicana) —
Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara ararauna)
Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara

MNGLO) aa = ae ee eee
Red-and-blue macaw (Ara_ chlorop-
COTE ee Bie P it yy Tee Re
Thick-billed parrot (Rhynchopsitta
Machyrnuncna) —= ~~ oS ==
Haitian paroquet (Aratinga chlorop-
IID a Se ee ee
Yellow-winged paroquet (Tirica vires-
ema) emer a is airs en tN) ste eh Sot

Tui paroquet (Brotogeris stthomae)—-—
Blue-backed parrotiet (Psittacula viv-
ida)
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auwro-
CTT 170 )) Lo CPE eS
Yellow-cheeked parrot (Amazona au-
PADIRTICIRS) 2s Abin eee kW Ne
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona ama-
zonica)
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona viridig-
enalis)
Double yellow-head parrot (Amazona
oratriz)
Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona ochro-
CONILGIG ) ie SEP. 8 SAAD 2d oeryey tse,
Yellow-shouldered parrot (Amazona
barbadensis)
Trestive parrot (Amazona festiva)_-__
White-fronted parrot (Amazona albi-
Fe 0 CL NY Ae oe eee a
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona
MID TONS) NANG) ———
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ven-
COME) ae oe EE I OS yl a a
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Gray parrot (Psittacus erithacus) —---~
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Black-tailed paroquet (Polytelis mela-
nura)
Ring-necked paroquet
quatus)
Grass paroquet (Melopsittacus undu-
NTO) | | ee ee

(Conurus tor-

CORACIIFORMES,

Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas)_-----
Short-keeled toucan (Ramphastos pis-

Ciworus brevicarinatus) ________-__
Barred owl (Strix varia) _._~-----_-~-

BRE to

CORACIFORMES—continued.

Screech owl (Otus asio) ---~__---_---

Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Western horned owl (Bubo virginianus
pallestens) ooo ee eee
American barn owl (Tyto perlata prat-
incola)

PASSERIFORMES.

Silver-eared hill-tit (Mesia argentau-
ris)
Red-billed hill-tit (Liothriz luteus) —--
Black-gorgeted laughing-thrush (Gar-
rulan HEclorans js Vee eee
White-eared bulbul (Otecempsa leuco-

European robin (Hrithacus rubecula) —
Hermit thrush (Hylocichla gutiata pal-

European blackbird (Turdus merula) ——
Robin (Planesticus migratorius) ~~~

Western mockingbird (Wimus  poly-
glottos leucopterus) ~~ ee
Cedar waxwing (Bombycilla  cedro-
PUN) voter PA Oe fea ei eat

European raven (Corvus corar) ~~~
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides)_
Fish crow (Corvus ossifragus) —~~--~~
Jackdaw (Corvus moneduia)_---_-__~
Yueatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) __—
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) ~----~_~
Green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa) ——_—_—~
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea

cinere@yoe os. seein ae
Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) ~~---_--—
Crimson tanager (Ramphocelus dimidi-

Napoleon weaver (Pyromelana afra) ——
Madagascar weaver (loudia madagas-

CUVROUSES \i = CASE ss ra SRA ee ee.
Strawberry finch (Amandava aman-

COD) ae ee ee ee
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata) ——-~
White-headed nun (Munia maja) —---~-
Java finch (Munia oryzivora)———___-~
White Java finch (Munia oryzivora) ——
Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila

gouidie)
Zebra finch (Teniopygia castanotis) ——
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) —-
Vera Cruz red-wing (Agelaius phani-

Ceus richmond) =. en eee
Baltimore criole (Icterus galbula) —-_~
Purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) —~
Black-tailed hawfinch (Hophona meta-

Bullinech (Pyrrhula pyrrhula)——----~
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris)---------
Yellowhammer (HLmberiza citrinella) —-

95

=]

oO

2A De eee

°
i

_

bo

_

ab bv ae W bt CO CO © OU co

awn eH
96

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1920—Continued.

BIRDS—continued.

PASSERIFORMES—continued.

European goldfinch (Carduelis car-
QUCUS) ane oe a
Chaffinch (Fringilla celebs) ----_-----
Bramblefinch (Fringilla  montifrin-
SEY a a a

European siskin (Spinus spinus) —~---~
Mexican goldfinch (Astragalinus psal-

UTED: 7 NODUCAINUS) 3 eee ee
House finch (Carpodacus meazicanus

frontalis)
Purple finch (Carpodacus purpureus) —
Canary (Serinus canarius) ~~-__---_--
Green singing finch (Serinus icterus) —
Slate-colored junco (Junco hyemalis) —
Tree sparrow (Spizella monticole) ____
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia

albicollis), 72 oS ee ee

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) __
Teguexin (Tupinambis teguivin) ____
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) —
Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) —
Rock python (Python molurus) ~~~ _~
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) -__-_-_—
Boa constrictor (Constrictor constric-

tor)
Blacksnake (Coluber constrictor) ____
Chicken snake (Hlaphe quadrivittata) —
Water snake (Natrix sipedon) —_____~
Queen snake (Natrix septemvittata) __
Garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis)_——
Moccasin (Agkistrodon piscivorus) ~~
Ground rattler (Sisitrurus miliarius) —_-
Snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) —
Rossignon’s snapping turtle (Chelydra

rossignoni)

=

mm Oe OOD

>

PASSERIFORMES—continued.

Song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) ____
San Diego song sparrow (Melospiza

melodia coopert) &—242220-- 2552s
Fox sparrow (Passerella iliaca) ______
Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) ___
California towhee (Pipilo crissalis) ___
Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola)_______
Seed-eater (Sporophila gutturalis) —-__
Nonpareil (Passerina ciris) ~--_--__-~
Indigo bunting (Passerina cyanea) ___
Blue grosbeak (Guiraca ce@rulea)_____
Red-erested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

lata)
Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) ~___~
Yucatan cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis

yucatanicus) 2222... Hasso. tees

REPTILES.

30

mw wD oO

NEE DH Ree

1

Spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata) —____
Box-tortoise (Terrapene carolina) ____
Western box-tortoise (ZJerrapene or-

Painted turtle (Chrysemus picta)____
Cooter (Pseudemys scripta)_—___.___~
Florida cooter (Pseudemys floridana) _—
Central American cooter (Pseudemys
ornata)
Gopher’ turtoise
MUS) ea Ae iF) chew Bee. Nemes meee
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo
cphippiwm) & ea ouer _ be yee et Tey ai
Albemarle Island tortoise (TVestudo
DECI) Sway De Seyret ees Purr aeh see
Matamata turtle (Chelys fimbriata) ~~
Soft-shelled turtle (Amyda ferov) ~--_

(Gopherus polyphe-

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.

m CO em bo Oo Ol et tO OT

|

be

ee

th

Mam-

ae Birds. | Reptiles.| Total.

Presented: CoP so Dre PEE SE Bey Eg se ceo 21 65 41
Born and hatched in National Zoological Park..-.............. 50 OA Rae Pyles
Received inl eGxChangess ssc teee oh ee eae ete ks eee aber 7 133 5
Purchased a6. pe wetter cea wien sae saa aie ese ee cane Sane 6 33 1
Transferred from other Government departments........-....- il 8 9
Captured in National Zoological Park.............------------- 2 304] 5 <tenwaaws
Deposited: ys a A. atetaa: sve reetees a set aces 5 1 18

Bab Ae oasis soe CE ER ee es ie era Me ieee ae 102 342 74

518

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

SUMMARY.

OE SSeS ke 0) en en ee Se Se ee eee. a re ee Ef Deke 1,336
Gee GG pighe Ua Go eee eee Sono | A? es ee oe ee FS eT tose kOe errs 518
MosiFeciimalsteidiad!: ...xasloin®).:p1OPOe sation ind geS Ae, lel 1, 854
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and return of animals on deposit). ---........-..-.----.--+---+-+++- 427
Aimnals on iand June dO ploy 2 Fos 2h pa ete cpt di hcles ociae £2 a ta oesehh Chats 2S Ssie 1,427
Class. Species. |Individuals.

LJBILTIE Ooh gS Se ee SE SSRSE. 0 oe cose g oe anor ac ep eee, & Serre See ae 166 496
COSY ES wo ha aS bee etek Sea ese am a ap laa SSE eS fate ah ye th eh 225 847
OG TGS oak 1 Ee Sees ee BEE ERE 9° COSC Cr © Sots TIC NC CEE t 3 Seas sae eee g 28 84
OLE TE aS TSP Ue Ee Ee onan OOS OC ATG S CRS OU AS SHES One aie - 419 1,427

It will be interesting at this time to submit figures showing the
comparative size of the collection at the close of each fiscal year since
the foundation of the park. The years and numbers of animals are
as follows:

Geos) ont to tive jeur tins eh agg7ssotignooy INO Lo WOLs 1, 193
Met ere ere eau clei dor to 35 Solr 1908101 baer eouun deel ott) 1, 402
ee ie ty 510 1900 -anedpicee oft pont jd 1, 416
_) 7 Ae arr teri See a Pe eee eee 1, 424
epee. ot ae 553 | 1911__ A haa Ae I Ph
ee DEL ye OTNY UES BOTH Ted suer nen, Wile Deseret 1, 551
men Od io sient L034 10 bas? og i). WAG OF b,  J BON At 1, 468
Maeperaws Aldlalyotisos bon . 615 Mito hw ow seer Viegas 1, 362
RD cle orice non l) ¥, $904,195). cow add ci ernocy we 1, 397
RY dg) I eet pat pgs eR nee 1, 383
Spall eaa en Ce re ab (LTC ete MERA Na II ORGIES 1, 223
em eat Bet ne OH POG 1 AS LS arene 1, 247
ADA BOS ATH ASO) 1, SEP TTIG1 GOZO) A TAGOON WOM 9. 1, 336
190525_222. tot haiqobs tsot4mme2n0 oo ad'l  toodad 8 1, 427
Mee elena la wenig wilte- 1, 272

The number of animals is now 124 under that of the record year
(1912), but is greater than has been maintained since 1913. The
monetary and scientific value of the collection is, however, very much
greater than ever before.

VISITORS.

The attendance for the fiscal year, as determined by count and
estimate, was 2,229,605, a daily average of 6,108. This is the first
time that the official records have gone above 2,000,000. The
greatest number of visitors in any one month was 402,403, in April,
1920, an average per day of 13,413. The largest single day’s attend-
ance in the history of the park occurred in this month, on Sunday,
the 11th, when 95,000 people were admitted to the gates. The other

42803 °—22——-7
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

three Sundays in April show attendance records of 25,000, 87,000,
and 55,000.

The attendance by months was as follows: In 1919: July, 125,700;
August, 230,255; September, 268,941; October, 205,398; November,
204,944; December, 74,161. In 1920: January, 55,547; February,
27, 099; March, 203,803; April, 402,403; May, 265,604; June 165,750.

Ninety-six schools and classes visited the park during the year,
with a total of 8,959 individuals. As usual, these came largely from
the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia; but several were
from States as distant as Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.

IMPROVEMENTS.

The most needed improvement completed during the year is the’

‘public-comfort station at the Harvard Street entrance. This build-
ing is set into the steep hillside just inside the gate, and is so nearly
hidden by the natural growth of trees, especially by the low-sweeping
branches of some fine beeches, that comparatively little planting
was necessary to improve the ground around it.

The row of old wooden cages, along the hill just north of the bird
house, the first cages used in the park, some of which were originally
brought from the Smithsonian grounds when the park was first
occupied, were replaced by nine new inclosures for strictly outdoor
animals, especially for the medium-sized carnivores not requiring
artificial heat. The new cages are made of iron framework, covered
with heavy mesh wire, with cement floors, and comfortable, sanitary
retiring rooms in the rear. The largest of these new cages, 20 by 20
by 12 feet in size, is now occupied by the Mexican pumas. The other
eight, from 10 by 16 by 9 feet to 14 by 16 by 10 feet in size, are used
for the snow leopard, lynxes, certain of the Canide, and a large
chacma baboon. The type of construction adopted for these cages
has proved exceedingly satisfactory, and the airy, cleanly quarters
are much admired by the visitors.

The quarters occupied by the chimpanzee in summer having
proved unsatisfactory since this animal became mature, it was de-
cided to prepare outdoor cages for his use adjoining his winter home
in the lion house. The hyena cage next to his indoor quarters was
therefore remodeled and connected with his main apartment, and two
spacious outdoor yards prepared for his use. He now has two com-
fortable indoor rooms and two outdoor yards, which makes the
problem of his care much more simple, as it is not necessary with the
new arrangement for his keepers to work while he is in the same
room or outdoor cage. ,

Among minor improvements completed during the year are wide
concrete steps connecting the walk in front of the bears with the
walk on the lower level along the sea-lion and beaver pools; new

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

drainage gutters at antelope house; new fence along hilitop below
children’s playground and sand boxes near the Adams Mill en-
trance; and repairs to road between Klingle entrance and the upper
ford. The reconstruction of the old outdoor chimpanzee cage into
quarters suitable for a grizzly bear and the re-covering of the large
outdoor cage for the California condors were both well under way,
and would have been completed before the close of the fiscal year
but for the fact that the cement and wire needed in the work could
not, at that time, be obtained in Washington.

Alteration of the western boundary.—This item has been consid-
ered in the annual report for many years, and it is therefore espe-
cially gratifying now to be able to report actual progress on the
purchase of the land necessary to protect the western entrance.
The sundry civil act for 1921, approved during the past year, carries
an appropriation of $80,000 for the purchase of all the land between
the western boundary of the park and the unnamed street connecting
Cathedral Avenue with Klingle Road, excepting one small lot at the
southern end, together with 300 feet each side of Jewett Street front-
ing on Connecticut Avenue. All of Jewett Street, which now con-
nects the park with Connecticut Avenue, and the included portion
of the unnamed street running parallel with Connecticut Avenue are
to become a part of the National Zoological Park, and a 50-foot
roadway at each end of the area to be purchased will be taken over
by the District of Columbia to connect the unnamed street with Con-
necticut Avenue. The area appropriated for includes 209,050.5
square feet, and the park will now be bounded at this point by
public highways instead of privately owned property. The frontage
on Connecticut Avenue, including the former Jewett Street, will be
625 feet—ample for all purposes.

IMPORTANT NEEDS.

Restaurant.—As mentioned in the last annual report one of the
most urgent needs of the park is a suitable public restaurant. The
present refreshment stand, entirely inadequate and in a bad state of
repair, is unsuited to the present-day crowds of visitors. It is be-
lieved that an up-to-date building on the present site, 50 by 100 feet in
size, and of two floors, one opening onto the lower slope to the west,
would meet the requirements and would pay the Government a fair
income in rent. Preliminary plans for such a building have been
made by the office of the municipal architect; the present estimated
cost of construction is $65,400.

Alteration of the southeastern boundary.—The District government
has now opened Adams Mill Road from the southeastern entrance of
the National Zoological Park to Harvard Street and a narrow strip
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

of land, between the park and this new roadway, between Clydesdale
Place and Ontario Road, still in private ownership, should become
Government property. This narrow strip of land is of very little
use, except possibly for garages, and its close proximity to the en-
trance to the park makes its public ownership of great importance.
The amount required for its purchase is comparatively small and its
acquisition by the park or by the District of Columbia should not long
be delayed. The cost should not exceed $4,000.

Outdoor quarters for mammals—Provision should be made for the
exhibition of lions, Siberian tigers, and other mammals now occupy-
ing quarters in certain buildings, in outdoor inclosures with warm
but unheated shelters. ‘The animals themselves would be greatly im-
proved by such conditions and the space they now occupy in buildings
would become available for animals actually requiring heated quar-
ters in winter. It is proposed that, when funds may be obtained for
the purpose, large inclosures of this type be constructed on the space
between the lion house and the monkey house now utilized as a pad-
dock for ostriches.

The most urgent need of the park at the present time is increased
compensation for certain of the employees, particularly the keepers
and policemen. While the rate of pay for these and other employees
has been slightly increased during the past four years, the increase
has in no measure kept pace with the cost of living, and it is becoming
more difficult all the time to retain valuable and trained men in the
service.

Respectfully submitted.

N. Houuistser, Superintendent.

Dr. Cartes D. Watcorr,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.

APPENDIX 5.

REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Str: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the fol-
lowing passage of the sundry civil act approved July 19, 1919:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory,
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants, pur-
chase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, making necessary obser-
vations in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscella-
neous expenses, $13,000.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within an
inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian ad-
ministration building at Washington, and also a cement observing
station and frame cottage for observers on a plot of 10,000 square
feet leased from the Carnegie Solar Observatory, on Mount Wilson,
Calif.

The present value of the buildings and equipment is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace the
outfit for the purpose of the investigation.

WORK OF THE YEAR.

At Washington—Much labor was expended on the preparation
of tables of results for publication in Volume IV of the Annals of
the Observatory.

Under Mr. Fowle’s direction, the Mount Wilson observations of
1919 were reduced and compared with those obtained by Smith-
sonian observers in Chile. An experiment had been made in using
rolled stellite instead of cast stellite to prepare new spectroscope
mirrors for the South American work. As these mirrors were not
quite finished when Director Abbot went south to observe the eclipse
of May 28 (as related in last year’s report) he took with him the
Mount Wilson spectroscope mirrors, intending that the new ones
should replace them on Mount Wilson. Unfortunately, they proved
unsuitable owing to a gradual alteration of figure after completion,
but were nevertheless used on Mount Wilson by Mr. Aldrich for the
experiments of 1919.

The matter is mentioned here because the defective mirrors intro-
duced stray light in the spectrum, which led to a systematic error of 2

101
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

per cent (in defect) in the Mount Wilson solar constant values of
1919. Considerable additional labor was required in the reductions
on this account. Furthermore, the sky was unusually hazy and
streaky on Mount Wilson in 1919, which also added to the labor and
anxiety of determining the best values from the observations.
Agreement of Mount Wilson and Chilean work.—However, the re-
sults when finally worked out proved to agree excllently, except for
the systematic error above mentioned, with the results obtained in
Chile. Both stations showed simultaneous and nearly equal fluctua-
tions of solar radiation through a range of about 5 per cent. After
allowing for the aforesaid 2 per cent systematic error of Mount Wil-
son, the average deviation of the two stations was but 0.013 calorie,
or 0.65 per cent from all the values, about 50 in number, obtained on
corresponding days. Omitting five values very discordant, when
the Mount Wilson sky was very hazy and streaky, the average devia-
tion of the remaining days was about 0.008 calorie, or 0.4 per cent.
Solar variation confirmed by observations of Saturn.—F rom corre-
spondence with Dr. Guthnick, of the Berlin-Babelsberg Observatory,
a most interesting confirmation of the solar variability has appeared.
Variations of brightness of the planet Saturn from January to May,
1920, were shown by Dr. Guthnick’s photo-electric observations which
could not be accounted for after allowance for all known sources of

variability. These outstanding variations were found to be in almost _
exact correlation with fluctuations of the solar radiation as observed |
at Calama, Chile. One per cent increase in solar radiation was found ©

to accompany 1 per cent increase of Saturn’s brightness.

These results, however, were only derived in connection with one of |

two possible interpretations of the nature of solar variation. The

sun might vary in such a manner that its changes would be observed |
simultaneously in all directions and so would occur on identical days’
on all the planets. This hypothesis does not fit the available observa- |
tions of the sun and Saturn. On the other hand, the solar radia- —
tion may be unequal in different directions. Such inequalities are, |

in fact, indicated by the ragged raylike structure of the solar corona.
On this hypothesis a change of solar radiation would occur as ray
after ray strikes the earth in the course of the sun’s rotation upon
its axis. These same unequally intense rays would reach the planet
Saturn either before or after they reached the earth, according to
the relative heliocentric longitudes of the earth and Saturn. The
sun rotates about 14° a day, so that the angular difference in posi-

tion of the two planets is to be divided by 14° to indicate the number |

of days allowance to be made between the dates of corresponding
solar and Saturnian measurements.

Proceeding on this second hypothesis, extraordinarily close corre-
spondence between the variations of the sun and Saturn was found.

———

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103

Further work of the kind is to be done at Saturn’s next opposition.
It will be noted that this second hypothesis of the nature of the solar
variation relieves us of the great difficulty of understanding how so
immense a body as the sun could vary in radiation so rapidly as our
observations indicate. We have now only to suppose that there
are inequalities of radiation in different directions which may be due
to the absorption or scattering of the rays in the coronal regions
near the sun. These inequalities may persist with little alteration
for weeks. We, however, note them as variations of solar radia-
tion as they sweep by us in the course of the sun’s rotation on its
axis.

The honeycomb pyranometer.—Myr. Aldrich constructed two copies
of a new instrument devised by Abbot and Aldrich for measuring
“nocturnal radiation.” We call it provisionally the “honeycomb
pyranometer.” In this instrument a long thin ribbon of “ therlo” re-
sistance metal about one-half inch wide and one one-thousandth of an
inch thick is bent in such a way as to make up into 200 cells of trian-
gular cross section all included in a total cross-sectional area of about
1 inch square. The corners of the cells are electrically insulated with
baked shellac so that a current of electricity can be caused to flow
from end to.end of the ribbon and thus all around each cell, Radia-
tion which enters the front of the cells from any source, if not ab-
sorbed there is reflected to and fro within the cells till it reaches their
rear ends. There its remnant emerges upon a silvered mirror in-
clined at a small angle so as to throw back the rays to make a second
course to and fro toward the front. Thus by repeated absorptions
the rays are at length almost wholly converted into heat. The de-
vice is, in short, a “black body.” But unlike other “ black-body ” re-
ceivers, its central cells are protected from losses of heat to the sides
by reason of the nearly equally warmed ceils surrounding them.
Thus the instrument is almost as sensitive as a flat blackened strip,
but possesses the valuable property of being fully absorbing, which
a strip does not. The temperature difference between the central
cells and the case of the instrument is indicated by thermoelectric ele-
ments. By passing a proper electric current through the “therlo”
ribbon the same temperature difference can be produced as by radia-
tion. The known energy of the electric current becomes the desired
measure of the energy of radiation, as in Angstrom’s pyrheliometer.
Also the constant of the apparatus is calculable from the known di-
mensions of it. It is possible, too, to observe the solar radiation with
this instrument, and so to calibrate it. Measurements of this kind
check very closely with the computed values.

Messrs. Aldrich and Abbot made a series of measurements with
the honeycomb pyranometer on various sources of radiation, includ-
ing comparisons with the ordinary pyranometer on incandescent
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

lamps of different kinds, and also observations on large hollow radia-
tors at different constant temperatures. Values of the constant of
the fourth power law of radiation differing by only 1 per cent from
the best accepted value were readily obtained in this latter work.
On the whole the “honeycomb pyranometer” is an instrument of
great promise for standard measurements.

Heperiments on the constant “ sigma.”—In collaboration with Dr.
C, E. Mendenhall, a new attempt was begun to devise means to
measure the constant of radiation with greater certainty. Apparatus
was devised and constructed in the Observatory shop for this pur-
pose. There was not time to try it before the departure of Messrs.
Abbot and Aldrich into the field, so that the apparatus was loaned to
Dr. Mendenhall for trial at the University of Wisconsin.

Field work at Mount Wilson.—Mr. Aldrich continued observing on
Mount Wilson until October, 1919. As said above, the year was un-
favorable both by reason of a defect in equipment and by reason of
much haze, cirrus cloud, and streakiness of sky. Also on many days
a curious wandering of the galvanometer needle occurred. This
phenomenon has been noted at Mount Wilson occasionally in former
years, but was unusually pronounced in 1919. By anticipation, it
may be remarked that it occurred also very markedly in late July
and in August, 1920. The march of the galvanometer spot in these
wanderings is relatively slow. A centimeter or two back and forth
upon the scale in one to two minutes is the usual magnitude. It
occurs with the galvanometer unconnected to the bolometer. Reasta-
ticising of the needle system till it turned in the earth’s field at the
same rate as the supporting quartz fiber failed to cure the trouble.
The Mount Wilson expedition was renewed in June, 1920, by Messrs.
Abbot and Aldrich.

Proposed station in Arizona.—The prevailing cirrus cloudiness
and haziness at Mount Wilson in all recent years, greatly exceed-
ing that which obtained from 1905 to 1910, when the station was new,
has been very discouraging. Furthermore, the station is quite un-
suitable for “solar-constant” work in winter and spring months
owing to cloudiness. It is urgently desirable to observe the solar
radiation daily, as far as possible, in the United States, in order to
check the results which are being obtained by Smithsonian observers
in Chile.

Accordingly it seemed best to set up a station in the most cloud-
less region of the United States, where the work could go on during
the entire year. Chief Marvin, of the Weather Bureau, obligingly
caused investigations to be made of various proposed sites in Cali-
fornia, Nevada, and Arizona. The one of highest promise appeared
to be on the Harqua Hala Mountain (elevation about 5,800 feet) near
Wenden, Ariz. Congress was urged to appropriate $25,000 for the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 105

establishment of a first-rate “solar-constant”’ observing station at
the best site, but the appropriation failed.

At this juncture Messrs, Abbot and Marvin held a long discussion
by correspondence and verbally as to the reality of the supposed solar
variability, and its availability as a forecasting element, in view of
the use being made of the Smithsonian solar observations in Chile
by the Argentine and Brazilian weather bureaus. The discussion
brought out very clearly the urgency of obtaining corroborative
observations of the solar radiation daily in the United States.

Fortunately the proposed new station obtained private financial
support in the lack of congressional action, Mr, John A. Roebling,
of Bernardsville, N. J., at Dr. Abbot’s solicitation, made a grant of
$11,000 for promoting measurements of solar radiation. Mr. Roeb-
ling made the condition that so much of this sum as necessary should
be devoted to removing the Smithsonian station from the plain near
Calama, Chile, to a mountain site above the reach of dust and smoke.
Any balance remaining after this improvement of the Chilean station
could be used for the removal of the Mount Wilson equipment to the
Harqua Hala Mountain in Arizona, or for such other purpose as Dr.
Abbot might prefer for the advance of the study of solar radiation.

At a cost of between $4,000 and $5,000 the Calama station was re-
moved to a mountain about 10 miles south of Calama, where skies of
extraordinary purity have been experienced. The removal was com-
pleted and first observations made at the mountain shortly after the
close of the fiscal year.

Dr. Abbot visited Wenden, Ariz., and the Harqua Hala Mountain
in the last week of June, 1920, Contracts were made for the erection
on the summit of a stone and adobe building of two stories, a lower,
partly underground, for observing, and an upper for quarters of ob-
servers. This is to be ready for occupancy by September 15, 1920,
when it is proposed to remove the “solar-constant ” observing equip-
ment from Mount Wilson to Harqua Hala.

The purpose of these improvements is to enable us to obtain nearly
every day in the year first-rate check observations of the “ solar con-
stant” of radiation at two stations remote from one another in the
two hemispheres. Only thus is it possible to lay a firm foundation
of solar observations extending over a considerable interval of time,
which will enable meteorologists to determine if the sun’s variations
are really of value as a weather-forecasting element. In view of the
results published by Mr. H. H. Clayton, of the Argentine weather
service, there is sufficient evidence that this may be the case to war-
rant the expense and discomfort attending the continuous occupation
of two desert mountain observatories like Marqua Hala and the
Chilean station.

106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Great appreciation is due Mr. John A. Roebling for his generous
aid in stepping into the breach at this time when it proved impossi-
ble to obtain public support for the urgent need. Only the most
primitive equipment has, it is true, been possible on the Harqua Hala
Mountain with the means available. Unfortunately, too, it means a
considerable restriction of other interesting investigations under way
or proposed, owing to the partial dismantling of the Mount Wilson
station. This is greatly to be regretted. It is recommended that
Congress be urged to appropriate the money needed to complete the
independent equipment of Harqua Hala, so as to permit needed
apparatus to return to Mount Wilson. The Harqua Hala station
should also be relieved of its limitations of water, of accessibility, and
of communication, and the buildings made more commodious. Other-
wise it will be only at such personal sacrifice of comfort as few can
be found willing to make that its work can go on.

PERSONNEL.

Miss Inez Ensign resigned as computer on September 22, 1919.
Miss F. A. Graves returned as computer from leave for overseas work
in France on September 4, 1919. Miss Gladys Thurlby, computer,
married, on May 8, 1920, Mr. Albion M. Bond, but remained in the
service of the Observatory.

SUMMARY.

The year has been marked by the practical completion for publi-
cation of Volume IV of the Annals, but no appropriation is yet
available for its publication. Close agreement in solar variation was
found for 1918 and 1919 between results of Mount Wilson, Calif.,
and Calama, Chile, 4,000 miles apart. A further remarkable con-
firmation of the solar variation comes from a comparison of Smith-
sonian observations in Chile with photo-electric observation of the
brightness of Saturn by Dr. Guthnick, of the Berlin-Babelsberg Ob-
servatory. This comparison indicates that the nature of the rapid
solar variation, consists in the rotation with the sun of rays of unequal
brightness which strike the different planets successively in the order
of their longitudes and fall one after the other upon the earth as
the sun by rotation brings them into line with us. A new nocturnal
radiation instrument, provisionally called the “honeycomb pyrano-
meter” on account of its cellular structure, and which employs the
well-known hollow-chamber principle of the “absolutely black”
body, but without loss of sensitiveness, has been successfully con- |
structed and tried. By the generosity of Mr. John A. Roebling, of |
New Jersey, it has been possible to remove the Chile station to a |

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

mountain above the dust and smoke of its former plateau location, and
also to erect a building on the Harqua Hala Mountain, in Arizona,
to which the Mount Wilson solar-constant work will be removed in
September, 1920.
Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Asgor, Director.
ir, CO! DY W atcorr,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE,

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1920.

At the beginning of the war six volumes of the eleventh issue were
still to be published, and only one volume ofthe twelfth issue had
appeared.

In spite of the evident financial difficulty ahead of the Catalogue,
the Royal Society decided that publication should be continued
through the fourteenth issue, covering the year 1914. The deficit
has since been met by generous contributions from the Royal Society,
the Carnegie Corporation of New York, and other sources. All of
the volumes of the thirteenth and fourteenth issues have now been
published excepting those for Geology and Physiology of the four-
teenth issue, which are both in advanced stages of preparation.
Much of the material for the fifteenth and later issues is now in the
hands of the Central Bureau awaiting only authority for its publi-
cation.

On account of the general upheaval felt among all international
organizations as soon as war began, it became impossible for the
International Catalogue to continue its work in the satisfactory
manner which up to that time had characterized the enterprise. A
brief review of the history and aims of the international organi-
zation may be repeated in order that the future aims and plans may
be better understood. |

When the publication was begun in 1901 it was for the purpose of |
satisfying a recognized demand for a complete authors’ and subject —
index of all current scientific literature. This demand was to be met
by publishing in annual volumes, one for each recognized branch of —
pure science, a complete authors’ and subject index to its current liter-
ature. Each branch of science was to be covered by volumes contain- —
ing complete citations of the author, title, and source of every original

paper, comprising first an authors’ index and second a classified sub-
108

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

ject index so arranged by means of classification schedules that the
literature on any subject in any of the sciences might be readily
found. The schedules were issued prior to the publication of the first
volumes of the Catalogue and were prepared in every case by special-
ists who were careful to take into consideration the needs of scien-
tists as well as of librarians and students. Provision was made to
include new subjects and introduce new methods of reference as the
demand arose, in recognition of the fact that practically all of the
sciences are in a constant state of transition and that a plan satisfac-
tory at one time would probably be inadequate to meet the needs of
a later period.

Omitting the greater part of the intervening history of the work,
‘it may be said that in 1910, at a conference held in London to discuss
the affairs of the Catalogue, it was recognized that although changes
had been made in many of the schedules, a general revision was neces-
sary and a committee was appointed to superintend this revision.
Authority was given to this committee by a resolution which reads
as follows:

That a committee be appointed to revise the schedules and to make such other
alterations aS may be necessary in the form of issue of the Catalogue. That it
May be an instruction to the committee that, so far as possible, the subject
index be confined to abbreviated titles and authors’ names and numbers to serve
as references to the authors’ index.

Tt will thus be seen that plans were in preparation to greatly in-
crease the usefulness of the Catalogue, but before they were put into
effect the war came and all progress was necessarily checked, and
although the war is now over, financial conditions still prevent the
introduction of new and improved methods. In spite of the fact that
the publication of the Catalogue was begun under financial diffi-
culties, as no working capital was available, by 1914, when the war
began, the receipts and expenditures practically balanced.

The delay in the publication of the annual volumes is recognized
as the most serious defect in the enterprise, but with this remedied,
as it would have been but for the war, and with the schedule re-
_ vision in effect as provided for in the resolution above quoted, it is
undoubtedly true that the International Catalogue would now meet
all practical requirements of an annual authors’ and subject cata-
logue to the literature of pure science.

A résumé of the condition of the work at present can not better be
given than by quoting a statement made by Prof. Henry E, Arm-
strong, who as dean of the enterprise and chairman of its executive
committee, is of all persons connected with the Catalogue the one
best fitted to report on its affairs.

The progress made in the publication of the International Catalogue since its
foundation in 1900 is nothing short of remarkable, Two hundred and forty-
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

two volumes have been published, indexing the scientific literature of the period
1901-1914, An extraordinarily broad, sound foundation has been laid and much
helpful experience gained. ‘The difficulties that were expected to arise have
either been nonexistent or were easily overcome. To have established so
complete an organization on a thoroughly successful working basis is in itself
a feat of no mean order and most creditable to all concerned, not only to the
staff of the Central Bureau but also to the various regional bureaus.

The real difficulty by which the work has always been hampered is want of
a working capital; this has affected both the Central and the regional bureaus.
Had funds been always available, publication would have been far more rapid
and the work might have been more fully developed. Almost every criticism
that has been leveled at the Catalogue involves its extension, and therefore
additional expenditure,

The International Catalogue was established primarily to meet
the demands of scientific workers by furnishing an annual authors’
and subject catalogue and index to the literature of each of the recog-
nized branches of science; but as it is now evident that a general
revision of the methods of production will be necessary, as soon as
international affairs become stabilized, it would appear advisable
when this revision becomes operative to establish some form of co-
operation with the many existing abstract journals and, so far as
possible, to encourage and aid the establishment of abstract journals
in sciences not already represented. This need for abstract journals
is now pressing for recognition, especially in the United States, and
the preparation and publication of abstracts is so akin to that of
scientific yearbooks that economy of effort in the production of both
branches of bibliography evidently demands a very close cooperation.
These abstract journals, organized and directed by workers in the
several sciences represented, would, when published, form the basis
of the annual volumes of an authors’ and subject index similar to
the present International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, pref-
erably by the reorganization of that international project which
already receives official recognition and support from practically
all of the countries of the world, acting through some 30 regional
bureaus.

By some simply organized method of cooperation between the
abstract journals and the Catalogue, both branches would mutually
aid one another to a very great extent and would in practice act as
one organization. The abstracts and citations published in the ab-
stract journals would form the basis of the Catalogue, thereby
greatly simplifying the work of the regional bureaus, which in turn
would aid the abstract journals in many ways and relieve them of
the necessity of publishing annual indexes, at present quite an ex-
pensive and laborious undertaking. The abstract journals and annual
indexes would together furnish to scientific investigators, librarians,
and others interested in scientific subjects all that they severally
require.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 111

Owing to the financial difficulty which has involved the Inter-
national Catalogue since war began, the Royal Society, which since
the beginning of the undertaking has been the financial sponsor of
the Catalogue, has issued invitations to scientific academies and
institutions to send delegates to a special conference to open on Sep-
temper 28, 1920, in London to discuss the future of the International
Catalogue. As the need for a catalogue of scientific literature is
universally acknowledged, and as the present organization of the
International Catalogue up to the time of the beginning of the war
was meeting this demand in a more satisfactory manner than ever
before, and as the present organization has behind it the official sup-
port of all of the principal countries of the world, it appears obvious
that every effort should be made to continue and improve the work
rather than abandon it simply on account of temporary financial
troubles and later have to reestablish the organization to cover the
same ground. Many projects are now being promoted to publish
abstracts, indexes, and catalogues of scientific publications, but the
question of finance seems to be a common paramount difficulty, and
it will certainly require less money to assure the success of the present
organization than it would to organize and finance a new project.

Very respectfully, yours,
Leonarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7.

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1920:

The receipts of publications compare most favorably with those
of preceding years. Packages withheld from the mails during the
war have begun to come in, and war regulations limiting exchanges
have been largely removed. Although many societies were forced
to limit distribution or to suspend publication during the war, it is
expected that the receipts will continue to increase when shipments
through the international exchanges may again be made between

the United States and the Central Powers. The receipts for the |

year ended were 28,810 packages, 22.495 of which were received by

mail and 1,315 through the international exchanges. Eight hundred |

and eighty volumes were completed and 14,273 entries were made.

The library has suffered, however, from a lack of cataloguers to |
carry on the work. The question of salaries for cataloguers in the |
library is a serious one, as those doing similar work elsewhere are _
receiving at least 33 per cent more. One desk has been vacant for |

practically the entire year, and as the staff already was very small
this has been a serious handicap.

SMITHSONIAN MAIN LIBRARY.

Publications for the Main Library, after entry on the records, are
forwarded to the Library of Congress for deposit in. the Smith-
sonian Division. The accession numbers for the year extended from
532,003 to 534,618, the accessions including 3,634 volumes, 186 parts,
157 pamphlets, and 42 charts. -

The cataloguing covered 2,332 volumes and 32 charts; 848 volumes:
were recatalogued ; 2,280 cards were typewritten and 618 cards from |
the Library of Congress, for publications deposited there by the In- |
stitution, were filed in the catalogue; 3,756 public documents were |

112

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 113

presented to the Library of Congress in accordance with the estab-
lished practice.

Dissertations were received from the Universities of Toulouse,
Paris, Utrecht, Lund, Ghent, Helsingfors, Bonn, Basel, Lausanne,
Zurich, and Geneva.

The securing of publications in exchange for the completion of
sets has been continued, with the following results:

Number of want cards received from Library of Congress:

Hrom Smithsonian: Divisions: !) fain mrewy Sort vrais reels oath 176
Miron eeriodical: Division: Res N es $e eee ele oe ee 79
SUPP Lo PSS] Bi C0 ee i gs 5 no cemeruhe A er lee , > or 5 ee eae a ee seer: 30
Petals te Sigel syste set Oy RT aS SR POT OE Tes 285

Number of publications secured for Library of Congress:

Hareamiinsoni nO iviSiON 222 2 ne ee ee 313 316
HoniPaniodical DivasionGs +o SAREE 20 TOURER Fi OS 11 66
MOMOnderoD i wisione Po. 82 25s oh hk RAT Seid “SEs 13 36

nS Sc det oes tet AA lei ic wines tel i aed Eoiemeasenian Be Na TI 5 337 418

Number of sets completed, 73.

With exchanges to the Central Powers still suspended, shipments
delayed, and many societies suspending publication, the time for se-
curing missing parts has been far from favorable. It is worthy of
note, however, that in spite of the unfavorable conditions a larger
proportion of the wants have been secured in exchange than in years
previous, as may be seen by the following table:

Want cards| Sets com-

pecan. received. pleted. Per cent.
eo a oa sw hn ic icin ene pin > ea eee Soe = 387 82 21.0
BT oe PS Oe Se Re ei ee ee ae 996 186 18.6
al 28 SE RSE SS Re Shoe oe ee 8 a et ee ek See a 514 134 26.0

Requests sent out for missing parts, it will be seen, are more effec-
tive by 5 per cent than those sent out before the war. It is hoped
that when shipments to the Central Powers through the Interna-
tional Exchange Service are resumed and overseas shipments can be
delivered more promptly that still better results can be secured.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE LIBRARY.

The accessions for the office library amounted to 300 volumes and
7 pamphlets, not including the set of publications of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, numbering more than 300 volumes, which
has been placed on deposit by Secretary Walcott. In order to pro-
vide adequate shelving space for these volumes it was necessary to

42803 °—22——8
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

rearrange the books already in the reference room, and as a result
practically all of the shelving space is now occupied. The circula-
tion of books in the reference room was 218 volumes.

Aeronautical collection—The aeronautical collection, as in the
past, has been consulted by students of aeronautics of foreign coun-
tries as well as those of the United States. Additional cases in the
hall of the Smithsonian Institution have been set aside for the accom-
modation of this collection, so that it is now more accessible to the
public. Forty new titles were added during the year.

De Peyster collection.—Author cards for the Napoleon series, num-
bering more than 1,200 volumes, have been made, and the books have
been arranged in regular order in the cases in the hall of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Author cards have been made also for the series
in British, German, and Italian history.

Reading room.—The number of magazines loaned during the year
from the reading room was 2,907, a decrease of 233, as compared with
the preceding year. The service has suffered from the fact that no
binding could be done, owing to the exhaustion of the funds avail-
able for this purpose.

Employees’ library—The increased use of the employees’ library
is noteworthy. Six hundred and forty-one volumes were loaned, as
compared with 332 last year.

MUSEUM LIBRARY.

There have been no additions to the Museum library of exceptional
importance. Valuable material has been contributed, however, by
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Mr. W. R. Maxon, Maj. Gen. John R.
Brooke, Dr. A. J. Boving, Dr. F. H. Knowlton, Dr. J. M. Aldrich,
Dr. W. H. Holmes, Dr. Mary J. Rathbun, Dr. W. H. Dall, Dr. O.P.
Hay, Mr. William Schaus, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. Austin H.
Clark, Dr. Walter Hough, Mr. A. N. Caudell, and the Knab estate.

Accessions.—Two thousand five hundred and forty-eight accessions
were received during the year, including 1,932 completed volumes and
1,581 pamphlets. The number of books in the library is now 145,307;
including 56,617 volumes and 88,690 parts of volumes and pamphlets.

Periodicals —Vhirteen thousand four hundred and thirty-two pe-
riodicals were entered during the year; 2,619 section cards for periodi-
cals and 858 section cards for volumes were made. The number of
new cards for periodicals was 351.

Cataloguing —The number of catalogue cards added was 2,748;
744 books and 1,529 pamphlets were catalogued.

Loans—The number of books loaned out was 9,802. Of these,
2,145 books, including 1,951 from the Library of Congress, were bor-
rowed from other libraries. Fully as many volumes were consulted,
but were not taken out.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 115

Binding.—Owing to the increasing cost of binding, the library’s
funds allotted for that purpose were exhausted in January, 1920.
As will be seen by the figures below, the library’s allotment for bind-
ing has not kept pace with the increases in cost. As a consequence
the number of books sent to the Government bindery has been
steadily decreasing. Following are the number sent during the past
three fiscal years:

otis HS NSS Ee AL ee ees s,s res RU 1, 706
1 Ee aera 20 eft ool | he ES, ae ee 1, 322
a Drees Sree IE ee ee 737

With a constantly increasing supply of volumes and many pub-
lications received during the present and past fiscal years still un-
bound, the library is greatly handicapped and is unable to render
the service that it should.

Technological series—Additions to the technological library dur-
ing the year, exclusive of duplicates, number 200 bound volumes,
2,983 pamphlets, and 2,576 periodicals; 2,245 cards have been added
to the scientific depository catalogue. A special effort has been made
to complete the files of publications, especially United States Gov-
ernment documents. The books and periodicals loaned during the
year were 200.

Sectional libraries—-Following is a complete list of sectional
libraries:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Materia medica.
Anthropology. Mechanical technology.
Biology. Mesozoic fossils.
Birds. Minerals.

Botany. Physical anthropology.
Comparative anatomy. Prehistoric archeology.
Editor’s office. Property clerk.
Ethnology. Registrar’s office.
Invertebrate paleontology. Reptiles and batrachians,
Mammals. Superintendent’s office.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY.

A report of the operations of the library of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology will be found in the report of that bureau. This
library is administered under the direct care of the chief of the
bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY.

Further additions to the library of the Astrophysical Observatory
number 87 volumes, 10 parts of volumes, and 16 pamphlets.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY,

To the National Zoological Park library there were added six
volumes and two pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The accessions during the year, with the exception of those in the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized
as follows:

To the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts

toscompleté sets: 2205. os ae eee eee 4, 019
To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and National
Zodlorical, Park! libraries. fo a2. been areca nl Se oe ty eet Ee ais a 428
To; the United States National Museum library______-__-______-.___+_ = 2, 548
Motels 2 = 2a eel se See Ne eee aes eee 6, 995

Respectfully submitted.
Pau. Brockert,
Assistant Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcorr,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Se

APPENDIX 8.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during
the year ending June 30, 1920:

The Institution proper published during the year 14 papers in
the series of Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report and pam-
phlet copies of 20 articles in the appendix to the report, and 1 special
publication. The Bureau of Ethnology published 1 annual report
and 3 separate papers from the same report, and 4 bulletins. The
United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 3 volumes
of the proceedings, 33 separate papers forming parts of these and
other volumes, 5 bulletins, and 9 separate parts of bulletins.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the In-
stitution and its branches was 148,290, which includes 157 volumes
and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 24,949
volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Miscelianeous Collections,
16,720 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports,
81,936 volumes and separates of National Museum publications,
16,761 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1,958
special publications, 19 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 23 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and
564 reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS,

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 67, 2 papers were issued ;
volume 69, 2 papers; volume 70, 3 papers; volume 71, 5 papers; vol-
ume 72, 2 papers; in all, 14 papers, as follows:

VOLUME 67.

No. 5. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. IV, No. 5. Middle Cambrian
Algae. By Charles D. Walcott. December 26, 1919. Pp. 217-260, pls. 43-59.
(Publ. 2542.)

No. 6. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. IV, No. 6. Middle Cambrian
Spongiae. By Charles D. Walcott. April 21, 1920. Pp. 261-364, pls. 60-90.
(Publ. 2580.)

ak
(118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

VOLUME 69.

No. 1. Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. August 19, 1919. 261 pp. (Publ.
2498.)

No. 5. Mammals of Panama. By Edward A. Goldman. April 22, 1920. 309
pp., 89 pls. (Publ. 2498.)

VOLUME 70.

No. 2. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1918,
July 15, 1919. 122 pp., 127 figs. (Publ: 2535.)

No. 3. Archeological investigations at Paragonah, Utah. By Neil M. Judd.
July 15, 1919. 22 pp.,15 pls. (Publ. 25386.)

No, 4. Temperature variations in the North Atlantic Ocean and in the atmos-
phere. Introductory studies on the cause of climatological variations. By
Bjorn Helland-Hansen and Fridtjof Nansen. Hodgkins Fund. April 17, 1920.
408 pp., 48 pls. (Publ. 2587.)

VOLUME 71.

No. 2. A method of reaching extreme altitudes. By Robert H. Goddard.
December 30, 1919. 69 pp., 10 pls. (Publ. 2540.)

No, 8. Variation in solar radiation and the weather. By H. Helm Clayton
(introductory note by C. G. Abbot). January 15, 1920. 53 pp., 5 pls. (Publ.
2544. )

No. 4. The brightness of the sky. By A. F. Moore and L. H. Abbot. Hodgkins
Fund. February 4, 1920. 36 pp. (Publ. 2545.)

No. 5. Observations of the total solar eclipse of May 29, 1919. By C. G.
Abbot and A. F. Moore. January 31, 1920. 12 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 2578.)

No. 6. New species of piper from Panama. By Casimir de Candolle. Feb-
ruary 12, 1920. 17 pp. (Publ. 2579.)

VOLUME 72.

No. 1. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1919.
May 8, 1920. 80 pp., 77 figs. (Publ. 2581.)

No. 2. Two new East African primates. By N. Hollister. January 22, 1920.
2 pp. (Publ. 2582.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

REPORT FOR 1917.

The complete volume of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents for 1917, together with pamphlet copies of the papers in
the general appendix, was received from the Public Printer during
the year.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1917. xii+674 pp., 241 pls. (Publ. 2502.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

Projectiles containing explosives, by Commandant A. R. 16 pp. (Publ.
2503. )

Gold and silver deposits in North and South America, by Waldemar Lind-
gren. 27 pp. (Publ. 2504.)

—ae
if

i

7

"

;

a

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 119

The composition and structure of meteorites compared with that of terres-
trial rocks, by George P. Merrill. 14 pp., 9 pls. (Publ. 2505.)

Corals and the formation of coral reefs, by Thomas Wayland Vaughan. 88
pp., 37 pls. (Publ. 2506.)

The correlation cf the quaternary deposits of the British Isles with those of
the continent of Europe, by Charles E. P. Brooks. 99 pp. (Publ. 2507.)

Natural history of Paradise Key and the near-by everglades of Florida, by
W. E. Safford. 58 pp.,.64 pls.. (Publ. 2508.)

Notes on the early history of the pecan in America, by Rodney H. True. 14
pp. (Publ. 2509.)

Floral aspects of the Hawaiian Islands, by A. 8. Hitchcock. 14 pp., 25 pls.
(Publ. 2510.)

The social, educational, and scientific value of botanic gardens, by John

' Merle Coulter. 6 pp. (Publ. 2511.)

Bird rookeries of the Tortugas, by Paul Bartsch. 32 pp., 38 pls. (Publ.
2512.)

Catalepsy in Phasmidae, by P. Schmidt. 5 pp. (Publ. 2513.)

An economic consideration of orthoptera directly affecting man, by A. N.
Caudell. 8 pp. (Publ. 2514.)

An outline of the relations of animals to their inland environments, by
Charles C. Adams. 28 pp. (Publ. 2515.)

The National Zoological Park—A popular account of its collections, by N.
Hollister. 51 pp., 46 pls. (Publ. 2516.)

The sea as a conservator of wastes and a reservoir of food, by H. F. Moore.

14 pp. 8 pls. (Publ. 2517.)

Ojibway habitations and other structures, by David I. Bushnell, jr. 9 pp., 6
pls. (Publ. 2518.)

National work at the British Museum—Museums and advancement of learn-
ing, by F. A. Bather. 15 pp. (Publ. 2519.)

Leonard Fuchs, physician and botanist, 1501-1566, by Felix Neumann. i3
pp., «7 pls. (Publ. 2520.)

In memoriam—Hdgar Alexander Mearns, 1856-1916, by Charles W. Richmond.
12 pp., 1 pi. (Publ.’ 2521.)

William Bullock Clark. 4 pp. (Publ. 2522.)

REPORT FOR 1918.

The general appendix to the report for 1918, which was still in
press at the close of the year, contains the following papers:

. The discovery of helium, and what came of it, by C. G. Abbot.
. An account of the rise of navigation, by R. H. Curtiss.
. The tornadoes of the United States, by Robert DeC. Ward.
. Wind power, by James Carlill.
. A tribute. Samuel Pierpont Langley: Pioneer in practical aviation, by
Henry Leffmann.
6. Modern physics, by R. A. Millikan.
7. The experiments of Dr. P. W. Bridgman on the properties of matter when
under high pressure. Introductory note by C. G. Abbot.
8. The problem of radioactive lead, by Theodore W. Richards.
9. Sphagnum moss; war substitute for cotton in absorbent surgical dress-

OR & be

ings, by George E. Nichols.

10. History of military medicine and its contributions to science, by Col.
W. P. Chamberlain,
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

11. Some problems of international readjustment of mineral supplies as indi-
cated in recent foreign literature, by Eleanora F. Bliss.

12. Reptile reconstructions in the United States National Museum, by
Charles W. Gilmore.

13. A Pleistocene cave deposit of western Maryland, by J. W. Gidley.

14, Paleobotany: A sketch of the origin and evolution of floras, by Edward
W. Berry.

15. The direct action of environment and evolution, by Prince Kropotkin.

16. The law of irreversible evolution, by Branislav Petronievics.

17. The fundamental factor of insect evolution, by S. S. Chetverikov.

18. The psychic life of insects, by EK. L. Bouvier.

19. Sexual selection and bird song, by Chauncey J. Hawkins.

20. Marine camoufleurs and their camouflage: The present and prospective
significance of facts regarding coloration of tropical fishes, by W. H. Longley.

21. Foot-plow agriculture in Peru, by O. F. Cook.

22. Sun worship of the Hopi Indians, by J. Walter Fewkes.

23. The League of the Iroquois and its constitution: A constitutional league
of peace in the Stone Age of America, by J. N. B. Hewitt.

24, The problem of degeneracy, by H. IF. Tredgold.

25. History in tools, by W. M. Flinders Petrie.

26. The background of Totemism, by E. Washburn Hopkins.

27. A great naturalist: Sir Joseph Hooker, by Sir E. Ray Lankester.

REPORT FOR 1919.

The report of the executive committee and proceedings of the
Board of Regents of the Institution and report of the Secretary, both
forming part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to Con-
gress, were issued in pamphlet form in November, 1919.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1919. 18 pp.
(Publ. 2548.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1919. 106 pp. (Publ. 2547.)

The general appendix to this report was in preparation but did
not go to the printer until shortly after the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publication was issued:

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between October 16, 1918
and July 16, 1919. August 12,1919. 1p. (Publ. 2541.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual re-
port to Congress: (6) the proceedings of the United States National
Museum; and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum,
which includes the Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested in Dr.
Marcus Benjamin.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 121

During the year ending June 30, 1920, the Museum published 1
annual report, 3 volumes of the proceedings, 33 separate papers form-
ing parts of these and other volumes, 5 bulletins, and 9 separate parts
of bulletins.

The issues of the proceedings were as follows: Volumes 54, 55,
and 56.

The issues of the bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 103. Contributions to the geology and paleontology of the Canal Zone,
Panama, and geographically related areas in Central America and the West
Indies. Prepared under the direction of Thomas Wayland Vaughan.

Bulletin 106 (text). North American early Tertiary Bryozoa, by Ferdinand
Canu and Ray S. Bassler.

Bulletin 107. Life histories of North American diving birds. Order Pygopodes.
By Arthur Cleveland Bent.

Bulletin 108. A revision ef the nearctic termites, by Nathan Banks, with notes
on biology and geographic distribution, by Thomas E. Snyder.

Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, volume 21. Flora
of the District of Columbia and vicinity, by A. S. Hitchcock and Paul C.
Standley.

Of the separate papers of bulletins, the following were issued:

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
adjacent regions. Volume 1, part 6: The relationships of the genera Cal-
earina, Tinoporus, and Baculogypsina as indicated by recent Philippine mate-
rial, by Joseph A. Cushman. Volume 2, part 3: Pyrosoma—A taxonomic study
based upon the collections of the United States Bureau of Fisheries and the
United States National Museum, by Maynard M. Metcalf and Hoyt S. Hopkins.

Bulletin 103. Contributions to the geology and paleontology of the Canal Zone,
Panama, and geologically related areas in Central America and the West
Indies. Pages 189-524: Fossil corals from Central America, Cuba, and Porto
Rica, with an account of the American Tertiary, Pleistocene, and recent coral
reefs, by Thomas Wayland Vaughan.

Of the remaining separates, 4 formed parts of volume 20 and 2 of yolume
22, contributions from the United States National Herbarium, while 1 was
from volume 55, 16 from volume 56, and 16 from volume 57 of the proceedings.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are described in detail in Appendix
2 of this report. The editorial work of the bureau is under the
direction of Mr. Stanley Searles, editor.

During the past year four bulletins, the Thirty-third Annual Re-
port, and three separates from this report were published, as follows:

Bulletin 60. Handbook of Aboriginal American Antiquities. By W. H. Holmes.
380 pp.

Bulletin 68. Structural and Lexical Comparison of the Tunica, Chitimacha,
and Atakapa Languages. By John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 69. Native Villages and Village Sites East of the Mississippi. By
David I. Bushnell, jr. 111 pp., 17 pls.

Bulletin 70. Prehistoric Villages, Castles, and Towers. By J. Walter Fewkes.
79 pp., 33 pls,
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Thirty-third Annual Report—Accompanying Papers: (1) Uses of plants by
the Indians of the Missouri River region (Gilmore); (2) Preliminary account
of the antiquities of the region between the Mancos and La Plata Rivers in
southwestern Colorado (Morris); (3) Designs on prehistoric Hopi pottery
(Fewkes) ; (4) The Hawaiian romance of Laie-ika-wai (Beckwith). 677 pp.
95 pls. :

Three separates from the Thirty-third Annual Report.

There were in press at the close of the year five annual reports and
nine bulletins. The bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 67. Alsea Texts and Myths (Frachtenberg).

Bulletin 71. Native Cemeteries and Forms of Burial East ef the Mississippi
(Bushnell).

Bulletin 72. The Owl Sacred Pack of the Fox Indians (Michelson).

Bulletin 78. Early History of the Creek Indians and their Neighbors (Swar-

ton).
Bulletin 74. Excavations at Santiago, Ahuitzotla, D. F. Mexico (Tozzer).
Bulletin —. Northern Ute Music (Densmore).
Bulletin —. Mandan and Hidatsa Music (Densmore).
Bulletin —. Handbook of the Indians of California (Kroeber).
Bulletin —. Archeological Investigations in the Ozark Region of Central

Missouri (Fowke).
REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
of the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume 2 of the report for 1916 was published during the year,
and the reports for 1917 and 1918 were in press at the end of the year.

RHPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Twenty-second Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution was
transmitted to Congress according to law in June, 1920.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEER ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication
passes upon all manuscripts offered for publication by the Institu-
tion or its branches and considers all forms of routine, blanks, and
such other matters as pertain to printing and publication. Ten meet-
ings were held during the year and 93 manuscripts were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. Tron, /'ditor.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1920.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the insti-
tution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum, the international exchanges, the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, etc.,
for the year ending June 30, 1920, together with balances of previous
appropriations :

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1920.

The sum of $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United
States under act of Congress is a permanent fund, having been ac-
cumulated by the deposit of bequests from time to time. Subsequent
bequests and the income therefrom are invested in approved securi-
ties. The several specific funds so invested are now constituted as
follows and classed as the consolidated fund:

Haein SCNeErAL Unde Ree ee a ee ee Bee $37, 275. 00
CONE SSI TUTE GSS SES aE a Degree ee Bee SD Mc, OP ae Oe Ps 117. 00
RESET MpseT TANG ees COPE Mn. Meany POAT UES ag 4s ke ES a ie 16, 898. 84
oe SECIS 1 Teed DEIR BES P5 Is 5 00 Oe ee ee a Oe ea ee coer Sete DED vee oe 2, 150. 00
icv anduGeorge W. Poore fund2. +22 4 eae 4, 968. 00
Pe RCe TIS SATLEOR, GUNG 82 a ee oe a ee 221.00
LGTY (BSL ICG Ua Ne al aa la te A ile ibece me stale irene at 8 1, 304. 00
(CoV ETRE, Sete bin eee ga ee Ed a SS DT A 2 acne 10, 000. 00
Ese TEL SVEE EV E)ST> R06 SIN A NB a TPC erg ee §, 355. 93
CADET RLY RO TE oT 0 EL LI" hg a peed SL hails 500. 00
Lucy H. Baird fund__-_-- ern, ae enedete rip vn tn RPS a SPADE en Eee

SPCR eCOHSOLGACOG TUNGes ne oan ee ee 82, 896. 02

Several lots of unimproved land near the city of Lowell, Mass.,
forming a part of the legacy known as the Lucy T. and George W.
Poore fund, were sold during the year and the sum of $440.07 was

realized and invested.
123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1919, to June 30, 1920.

RECEIPTS.
W@ash.an-deposit: and in sate July. 1910.2 ee ee $2, 122. 78
Interest on fund in United States Treasury $60, 000. 00
@ther- Interest) = ae eee ee Se ee eee 5, 651. 37
$65, 651. 37
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete_________________ 14, 525. 09
Contributions for specific purposes____________________ 41,171. 82
Bills receivables 2-2 Sa ee a ee eee 50, 000. 00
Proceeds from sale of real estate___.__________________ 440, 07
——————— 171, 788. 35
173, 0V1 13
DISBURSEMENTS
Buildings; .care\and yrepa ies ody a hp og hs 9, 618. 05
MUrNIbEre\ An Hx hUTOS ss to8 Fai ee 2 ea, es care ye 1, 599. 44
General expenses:
i) Gig CaF a Sa Pde Seated Ve ad ag he a ON Me aS oi 0 eg ea 21, 124. 74
IM eG 1A ft SERRE a Ce GR CSRS AERA Aas 124. 00
Stationenyae-stce bd it cay som boy Le ie sapere 648. 09
Postage, telegraph, and telephone_________________ 736. 34
Mrercipe2s 2a. ES See ee ea EEO a ers eee 72. 82
Incidentals, fuel, and jightst2yses ys yes peer eriee 885. 93
CGE ey sien Simin a aoe bd aR A ante TS BON oc ial irene s Mewes Scere, Bi 1, O79. 29
——__—_—_——_ 24, 671. 21
1 EAT 0 P21 cae nae a ee erp Seer Se RP Mops Mn aR SIA NOR ls Ret neon eae 2, 888. 03
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellaneous. 7collechions: -2 = = Ss pan. Bie es 9, 277. 60
REPOGESTE. 225 20a Dut aa See Se Se ae NEL ee 151. 19
SPeCIAN PUD NCATIONS! 2 et a. aetna eee ee 10. 50
Publication supplies aus sd Sods Fe) Pa eee bee Zt. oo
Salariesecers sopare. cede. robes Pret. eu EEE, EEG 7, 246. 82
Harriman “publications cheese eo ery lp) ee 38. 82
16, 942. 32
Keplorations andi aresear eh eg. sua 5 ee eins ee Stes Ee eee 5, 784. 95
Hodgkins specific fund, researches, and publications_______________ 10, 044. 32
International-exchan veg 22) 722 2 Se Ue eee ee ae ee ce ee ee 1, 900. 37
Consolidated fund “Cinvested) a oa Ree eS ee 6, 995. 39
Bilissreceivable;-time-certifieatess= 2-4 se ee ee ee 40, 000. 00
Interest accrued, consolidated fund______--_-_-_-_-_-_»_-__ 78. 99
Advances-for field “expenses -et@z222 £2 aes ea eee 40, 088. 72
160, 606. 79
Deposited with Treasurer of the United States and
Tra gt OE gp RSI I REN ON SE SS AN ee Regine 18, 104. 34
SSD Sri Te eee ee ee Ne See ee ee 200: 00
——————— 13, 304. 34
13; OLS

The itemized report of the auditor confirms the foregoing state-
ment of receipts and expenditures, and is approved. A summary
of the report follows:

t

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 125

Capitat AupitT Co.,
Pusiic ACCOUNTANTS & AUDITORS,
Washingion, D. C.
Executive Committee, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution.
Sm: We have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1920, and certify the following to
be a correct statement:

bare EECCN ts et Ebel Seek wi Ee Ben seem Re SY ah Ae tied = bet oe ONE RO $171, 788. 35
Sere aR DSRS CUTIETI GG oo ee eee ere rene eee sae teens TIS REST o Se 160, 606. 79
Excess of receipts over disbursements______-_--___________ 11, 181. 56
PMRPTNG TRON! cP ULY L, LO en ae et re a Be a: En - Pee EI Ppl LA hdl yea
Balaneevon: handJjume:30; 19202202 2 et ek RO eh rete 13, 304. 34
Balance as shown by Treasurer’s statement as of June 30, 1920____ 14,696. 41
RES TOUbsconcine; Cheeks.) sos eo EAST Fe SE oko ye al 5, 139.16
LESTU RD PPPEIES RRS, Bie a I ab tN EAI ath epee GE neh 2 ENIAC ek 9, 557. 25
fence American National Bank: *_-* =" 2 Es! Sek 3, 547. 09
PeemaeeeniT Mic Ta eens sees ST SS 2 SEN Se NT, ts es pt aed es. 200. 09
alange Wane sO. 102052 2. 2 eee es 13, 304. 34

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during
the year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary or, in his absence,
of the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charzed
were applied to the purposes of the institution, have been examined in con-
nection with the books of the institution and agree with them.

CapiraL AupiT Co.,
By Wit1iiAM L. YArcEr, President.

All payments are made by check signed by the secretary of the
institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account, except in some in-
stances small deposits are now made in bank for convenience of col-
lection and later are withdrawn in round amounts and redeposited
in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven highly satisfactory. During the year the interest de-
rived from this source has amounted to $1,320.60.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1920 intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on
June 30, 1920:
126

International Exchanges, 1918
Intermational:Exchah ges if0105. is SY SeLE | 0g, ose. Pets aay LR
J Liat sya af} oy oS) Ws Dip ch aks ha eg <1 Pann 17 tee a le ky le mit eta a Sa,
American MEBnology;, 1918s 22 tse mies Src Sa ae ee Beco ene tee ee eels
AMOR can Jt OTOLOP Ys; LOL0 3 <n -tore cias seinicisce da acilac ue oesties tenet eee eee
‘Ain GnicanvE hn olopy. 1020. secs ses hace eta < Soe e accion. cbine sinner seas
Intemational Catalogue, 1918: oi2. so.cis2 econ. mi tyeesse esis ebeth: oes. wie
intemational Oatalorie; 1919... ee wes heck cee eo acon cee mae nee Seen
International talopie: TOR0n Si ak su bel ve/e olseieeieie ie ceteie re erate mints
Astrophysical Observatory, 1918. oc nce came ciscm cca teen seme See eed
Astrophysical Observatory, 1919
Astrophysicai Observatory, 1920. ....-.-- PR_SR SORIA eh EPA
Observations, Eclipse of Sun, 1918
National Museum:
PT NEUre an deetines tat Ose ace ence ee Sree eae ee ae ane eae
Furniture and fixtures, 1919:..¢.ccc eet hee Re
HEREUILULS ATIC TEXGUTES MODS a meee stem ee ote ite ee Se ae eee ar
Heating and lighting, 1918
Heating and lighting, 1919
Heating and lighting, 1920
Presenvatiomoncollectionss LOR jie a geen tie en cmos Senge
Preservation of collections, 1919....-...-. aaa cise h ern bard Staidta le Sel eee acl
GTESENVALLON Of COMCCTIONS  LO20 «co.cc oo aisniainin tein eater Bp de cinsechise wes ie ye
IOUS LON ae amend Saou nedene isee Be ESS dohiceaaeeh nucineaneebeabedek Jesee
BROOKS TOL O occa = erate et ate aid clo ete tet aie ara ee ett eee aie tate
Teaco) essed M0 fear 2 eae oS ae ee Aer Ree oreo anne bee
HZOS HAPS HALO ane yale he = obey hfe Me Aw x oletele fale xlolam cle satare =! Sletni=)ats=imlwlaialalcel =
Tay eed Cobuayeg ney or rhea ON he ea eo eee sete sa Soe Sein cid ie Ain
Building repairs, 1919
Building repairs, 1920
Heating and equipping aircraft building, 1929...-..:...:.....--....----
Nationa OOlLOpICAlUb enka h OMe oi oe oe ciate aaah ete em reine leis ee isin iae le
National Zoological Park, 1919......-. AAMON SRS SPLUIERE SILL. WP Abe) Bn
National Zoological Park, 1920 442:¢))42- 49jd23 - £85 - LEP s5 EO. OE
Increase of compensation, 1920 (indefinite)

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Available
after July 1,
1919.

$893. 24
3, 794. 55
45, 000.00
430. 21

5, 885. 29
42, 000.00
585. 10

1, 186.75
7, 500. 00
230. 67

2, 663. 21
13, 000. 00
1, 455. 33

48.14
910.99

20, 000. 00
372. 78

6, 245.76
55, 000. 00
4, 943. 88
33, 383. 19
300, 000. 00
292
1,356
2,000.
500. 00
46.37

3, 530. 84
10, 000. 00
14, 000. 00
2.53
10, 534. 95
115, 000. 00

36
00

Balance
June 30, 1920.

1$4.38
11.99
9, 883. 06

1 353.56
722.75
6, 495. 68
1 220. 43
910. 34

80
i 440.95
1, 442. 15

1,365.70
1 168. 67
94.61
770. 34
1191.20

1 48.14
188. 98
2,022. 26
1110.13
291.11
20, 426. 49
1 4, 358. 03
24, 998. 73
7, 792. 65
1137.47

1,190.13
12.53
6.13

7, 868. 67

katte honda et

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.

Statement of estimated income from the Smithson fund and from other sources
accrued and prospective, to be available dwring the fiscal year ending June

30, 1921.
Gash ‘balance;aduner30; 1920 2b44eres teey NOOT won Tanah itd eed $18, 304. 34
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
due July/is 1920) Name sian 1O21 oS ee ee $60, 000. 00
PERU SCO Viet ee sa een aS ee ee 20, 000. 00
Interest from miscellaneous sources_______---___--____ 6, 036. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of
ICY AMNCCS EC Cre ee a ee ey ee ee ee 10, 861. 35
Depositsor Specific purposes] ae eee 12, 000. 06
—————— 108, 897. 35
Total available for year ending June 30, 19212 == 122, 201. 69
Respectfully submitted. Guo, Gray,

Henry Wuite,
Executive Committee.

4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE
30, 1920.

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 11, 1919.

The board met at the institution at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; The Hon. Thomas R. Marshall, Vice
President of the United States; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Rep-
resentative Lemuel P. Padgett; Representative Frank L. Greene;
The Hon. George Gray; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; Mr. Charles
F. Choate, jr.; Mr. John B. Henderson; and the secretary, Mr.
Charles D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the appointment, by joint resolution of
Congress, approved by the President January 7, 1919, of Mr. Robert
S. Brookings, of Missouri, as a citizen regent to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of the Hon. Charles Warren Fairbanks.

Also that the Hon. George Gray, of Delaware, had been reap-
pointed by joint resolution approved by the President February 26,
1919.

Also that Senator Medill McCormick had been appointed by the

Vice President on December 2, 1919, to succeed Senator Hollis, whose

term as Senator had expired.
CHAIRMANSHIP OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

On motion, it was

Resolwed: That the Hon. George Gray be reelected a member of the executive

- committee, and that he be continued in the position of chairman of the com-

mittee.
RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Judge Gray, chairman of the executive committee, submitted the

_ following resolution, which was adopted:

¥.
A

Resolved: That the income of the institution for the fiscal year ending June

; 380, 1921, be appropriated for the service of the institution, to be expended by

the secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion

on the part of the secretary as to items,

127
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Judge Gray presented the Annual Report of the Executive Com-
mittee showing the financial condition of the institution for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1919, which was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Judge Gray presented the annual report of the permanent com-

mittee as follows:
DECEMBER 11, 1919.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: Your permanent committee submits herewith its report for the ©

past year on the matters under its supervision:
Hiodgkins fund.—At the last annual meeting of the board, held December 12,

1918, your committee reported that $15,000 had been allotted from the Hodgkins ~
fund to Dr. Charles G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory, for —
the purpose of carrying on researches in solar radiation at a station to be ©

established in the Argentine Republic. It was explained that war conditions

prevented this, and that instead, work had been done in North Carolina and at ;
a station established at Calama, Chile. The latter work is now under way, ~

and additional allotments amounting to $8,200 have been made.

Under the allotment of $5,000 previously reported, Dr. R. H. Goddard, of 7
Clark College, Worcester, Mass., has continued his work in developing certain —

devices to be used in connection with the study of the temperature of the
higher atmospheric strata.

Avery bequest.—One lot only, No. 140 East Capitol Street, remains to be dis- |

posed of to close up the Avery estate, which now totals $28,874.74.

The Poore bequest.—Since the last report several of the lots belonging to this |

property, situated in Lowell, Mass., have been sold. With these additions and
the earnings of the fund to date the bequest now amounts to $29,780.10.

The Bruce Hughes bequest to be used for the founding of the Hughes Alcove,
now totals $9,797.12.

Freer Art Gallery fund.—The condition of the fund is as follows:

Recempts.:tt. bt ead a bee ee a OY ee Deh Poe ae $1, 349, 251. 48 |
TESS DESIG NEED Se 1, 091, 467. 69

BBS Wb: 5) OX C= aaNet sos ten Ma Od mee a Dae se oh lA cee 257, 783. 79

1,549, 251. 48

Consolidated fund.—The consolidated fund of the institution, which consists
of investments in excess of the permanent fund of $1,000,000 deposited in the
United States Treasury, now totals $71,554.38.

On motion, the report of the permanent committee was accepted.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE USE OF THE MUSEUM BUILDINGS.

In the absence of Mr. Henry White, chairman, the following report
was presented by Senator Lodge:
DECEMBER 11, 1919,
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
GENTLEMEN: In the absence of the chairman, Mr. Henry White, I submit the

fellowing report:

|

|

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 129

At the last annual meeting of the board, your committee reported upon the
occupancy of the Natural History Building of the National Museum by the
Bureau of War Risk Insurance, showing that 138,600 square feet of its first
and second floors had been allotted to the purposes of the bureau, accommodat-
ing over 5,000 of its employees. To provide this space, the building had been
closed to the public in compliance with the request of the President.

It was the understanding that the bureau would remove to its own quarters
at Vermont Avenue and H Street upon the completion of the building then in
course of construction, and return to the National Museum the space it had
occupied there in the same condition in which it had been turned over to the
bureau. The bureau vacated the museum in the latter part of March, but for
lack of funds was unable to fulfill its obligations as to repairs; and it was
not until April 22 that the Museum, out of its limited funds, could prepare the
building so as to be reopened.

Your committee is pleased to report, however, that the deficiency act of No-
vember 4, 1919, carries an item of $5,640 which the Bureau of War Risk Insur-
ance iS authorized to pay to the National Museum on account of the repairs
and other expenses incident to the bureau’s occupancy.

Respectfully submitted.
(Signed) H. C. Lopes,

Member of Committee.
On motion, the report was accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary submitted his annual report for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1919, which was accepted.

THE SECRETARY’S SUPPLEMENTAL STATEMENT.

Needs of National Museum.—The pressing needs of the National
Museum are additional space for the accommodation of its collec-
tions and the increase in its scientific and technical staff, the space
congestion especially rapidly becoming more pronounced and em-
barrassing. It is evident that if the museum is to keep reasonable
pace with the development of the country, these needs must be met.

The Natural History Building was designed exclusively and is
needed entirely for the natural history collections. It has been
necessary, however, to make provision in this building for the
National Gallery of Art, one large hall in the first story being
devoted to that purpose. Further crowding has resulted from the
utilization of the west and northwest ranges and the foyer with
adjoining rooms in the ground story and the rotunda in the first
story in the assembling of the war collections.

In the Arts and Industries Building conditions are even more
serious. By 1917 the building was overcrowded owing to the devel-
opment of the various divisions in arts and industries, particularly
textiles and mineral technology. The great increase in the collec-
tions for the Division of History is due largely to the acquisition

42803 °—22——_9
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

of the material for the War Museum, which has necessarily increased
the crowded condition of all of the halls.

The museum quarters in the Smithsonian Building are also con-
gested. The laboratory space of the division of plants, the National
Herbarium, has become so inadequate that it will be necessary to
ask for the erection of a new gallery. This, however, would only
provide for its normal growth for possibly five years.

In 1917 the Congressional Public Buildings Commission was in-
formed that the museum would require two new buildings to properly
accommodate its collections, and that the prompt erection of one
for immediate needs was urgently necessary. Conditions have ma-
terially changed since then, making additional housing still more
imperative. The close of the war, the attendant revival of the in-
dustries and the arts, and particularly the development of the war
collections, have all brought to the museum greatly increased collec-

tions of vital interest and value.
Square feet

exhibition.
The National Gallery of Art now needs.2=--. ..--- e5-s2- 254 at 90, 000
To care for its reasonable growth for next 10 years not less than_____~_ 150, 000
The historical collections. now. need.=-——-~--=--..--+.+.....----_--_.. 100, 000
To care for their reasonable growth for next 10 years not less than____ 200, 000

The National Gallery of Art received in 1919 one collection valued
at $400,000. With the present inadequate facilities, gifts and loans
are being rejected because we have absolutely no space for exhibiting
these objects, nor can we properly care for such gifts in storage.
This condition of affairs is so thoroughly understood throughout
the country that those who would present their art treasures to the
National Gallery of Art are forced to place them in civic and private
institutions.

The following floor space is now occupied by the museum in the

three buildings:
Square feet.

Natural History Building--_______----- Tipe Ee ae es pL 1 peer 468, 118
SD Xvi ego 0 0 Ug Wa G RUSE eed SYS purd ex OU TO HD eta laa So lS sp nd Mata iad ree tna Rea 143, 488
Smithsonian Building (portion used by the museum) ---~------______ 34, 236
ig WC) 72 ara Ey a ee NR ee WINS Sheen Ae ip Sao 645, 842

The war collection —During the period which has elapsed since
July 1, 1919, the collection of material designed to illustrate the his-
tory of the recent war and known as the Museum War Collection has
received many very large and notable additions. Of particular in-
terest are the following: A 37-millimeter infantry field gun, a 75-
millimeter American made French gun representing the type of
ordnance most used by the Allies during the war, three types of
trench mortars, namely, a 38-inch, 6-inch, and 9.45-inch, with mounts
and accessories. There have also been added to the ordnance ma-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 131

terial many types of shells, a number of which are sectionalized show-
ing the methods of manufacture and the character of the interior of
these important implements of war. The Museum has just put on
exhibition a rare German message shell, deposited by Maj. Gen. H. L.
Rogers, Quartermaster General of the Army. As far as known, this
shell is one of only two in America, the other being in the possession
of the Chief of Ordnance. The message shell was used, toward the
end of the war only, to send a message from one body of German
troops to another where all lines of communication had been
destroyed.

On the end of the shell was a colored fuse, red or yellow, depend-
ing on the importance of the message. The fuse was ignited, the
time being set for the proper distance, and at the desired point in
the flight of the shell the end of the shell was thrown out, releasing
an inner container and an immense cloud of black smoke covering an
area of 300 yards. This smoke cloud both indicated the location and
‘afforded a screen under which the German was enabled to leave his
trench and pick up the container with message. A sample of the
paper, on which the message was written with two carbon copies,
is shown with the shell.

The shell was presented to Gen. Rogers by Lieut. John J. Raezer,
Quartermaster Corps, who found it with salvaged property. This
shell is shown in the Museum in connection with a large number of
- other interesting German relics of the war. Of special interest in
this connection is a collection of materials used in trench warfare,
including offensive and defensive grenades, gas grenades, signal
flares, and other objects of the same character.

The Engineer Department has added a complete set of para-
phernalia used by that department during the war. This collection
includes giant search lights, motor trucks, complete sets of engineer
tools, and examples of delicate instruments used by this branch of the
Army.

In addition to the material of this character illustrating the activi-
ties of our own Army the Museum has received from France, through
the assistance of Gen. Rogers, a large collection of material illustrat-
ing the work of the allied armies and also of those of the enemy coun-
tries. This collection includes uniforms and personal equipment of
the officers and enlisted men, chemical warfare material, ordnance
material, aviation material, Signal Corps material, engineer material,
medical material, and various other paraphernalia used by the
Belgian, British, French, Italian, and also the German, Austrian, and
Turkish armies. ;

The artistic and sentimental side of the great conflict which the
war collection illustrates will also be well represented in this col-
lection. In this connection the Museum has received, through the
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

courtesy of the General Staff of the United States Army, all of the
paintings and drawings made by the official artists of the American
Expeditionary Forces in France, and showing in a graphic and
striking manner the activities of the United States Army from the
entrance of America into the war until the signing of the armistice,
November 11, 1918. Besides these pictures, a large and most im-
portant collection of paintings executed by various artists on behalf
of Liberty loan work and formerly exhibited in New York City, has
been added to the collection.

The Museum has already received as complete a collection of
Liberty loan posters as it is possible to make at this time.

The numismatic features of the collection have also received many
interesting additions, including about 200 medals, issued in the allied
and neutral countries during the progress of the war to commemo-
rate notable events, and especially to perpetuate allegorical designs
in connection with the various stages of the conflict.

The war collection as a whole has grown so rapidly and has
attracted so much material of historical and intrinsic value to the
Museum that its continued development is assured.

The great problem remaining is to supply adequate facilities for
the installation of this priceless aggregation of material, which
should be installed as a unit in suitable cases amid appropriate sur-
roundings in a new building erected exclusively for the purpose.

RESEARCH WORK OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Astrophysical Observatory—The work of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory is closely related to meteorology. The researches carried
on there relate to the quantity of heat received by the earth from
the sun, the effect of the atmosphere to diminish and alter the quality
of the solar radiation, and, on the other hand, the determination of
the outgoing radiation of the earth and the effect of the atmosphere
to hinder it and to alter its composition.

The work of the observatory from 1905 to 1912 established the
standard scale of solar radiation measurements, determined the in-
tensity of the sun’s radiation as it is outside the atmosphere, and
measured the transparency of the atmosphere for solar rays under
a great variety of circumstances—at sea level and at various altitudes
up to that of Mount Whitney, the highest mountain in the United
States. These researches also showed that the sun is probably a
variable star, having a variation both of long period associated with
the variation of other solar phenomena like sun spots and also a
variation in short periods of a few days or weeks. The magnitude
of these fluctuations in the solar heat appeared to amount to several
per cent and could reasonably be expected to affect the temperature
and rainfall of the earth.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 133

Since 1912 the Astrophysical Observatory has confirmed the vari-
ability of the sun by several independent methods and has perfected
and improved the means of determining it in several ways. A
notable improvement was made this year at the time when Dr.
Charles G. Abbot, the director, was visiting the Smithsonian Ob-
servatory at Calama, Chile, which is maintained under the Hodgkins
fund. He found that by taking into account the brightness of the
sky around the sun the transparency of the atmosphere for solar
rays could be inferred so accurately by means of measurements
extending over about only 10 minutes that the determination of the
solar heat could be made as accurately as by the older fundamental
process of Langley, which requires several hours of observing. The
computations by the new method are also much abbreviated, so that
now it is possible to determine the intensity of the solar radiation
for the given day within 2 or 3 hours instead of by methods which,
as heretofore, required the equivalent of 15 hours of work for one
observer. The new method of observing is being steadily applied
at the Smithsonian Observatory at Calama, Chile, and the founda-
tion for its application at Mount Wilson, in California, has been
laid.

Studies are being made by officials of Argentina and Brazil on the
dependence of the temperature and rainfall of those countries on
the variations of the sun as reported to them by the observing sta-
tion at Calama. The Smithsonian Institution has now in press a
report by Mr. H. H. Clayton, principal forecaster of the meteoro-
logical service of Argentina, in which he gives investigations tending
to show that all the outstanding departures from normal which con-
stitute the weather as contrasted with the climate of a place depend
on variations of the sun. Without as yet fully accepting this star-
tling conclusion at least the importance of the observations of the
solar variability are greatly enhanced by these studies of Mr. Clay-
ton. Accordingly investigations are being made to determine the
best site for a proposed observatory for measuring solar variation
in the most cloudless region of the United States. This appears to
be a little north of Yuma, Calif. Plans are also being considered for
establishing such an observatory in Egypt, which is the most cloud-
less region of the world. -As in every research, the drawback is the
lack of funds. It is greatly to be hoped that in some way means may
be found for establishing two or three of the special observatories
required for measuring the variation of the sun in the most cloudless
region of the earth. It is only in this way that a satisfactory basis
ean be laid for further progress in world-wide weather forecasting
depending upon these measurements.

In regard to the dependence of the weather on the terrestrial radia-
tion outward to space and the effect of the atmosphere upon that, re-
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

searches are also in progress at the observatory. Although this field
is more difficult even than that of the dependence of the earth’s tem-
perature on the incoming solar radiation, yet good hope of progress
is entertained.

The director is largely occupied with the preparation of Volume
IV of the Annals of the Observatory, which will include the results
obtained from 1912 to 1919 in the studies of solar and terrestrial
radiation.

EXPEDITIONS.

The Collins-Garner Congo expedition returned to this country in
May, after having spent more than two years in the collecting of
natural-history material in French Congo. Mr. C. R. W. Asche-
meler, who represented the Smithsonian Institution, brought back
with him a valuable addition to the museum collections, consisting
of about 2,500 birds and mammals.

Borneo-Celebes-Australian expeditions.—The collection of natural
history and archeological specimens in Borneo and Celebes was
commenced under the direction of Mr. Harry C. Raven in 1912 and
was concluded in 1918, resulting in the addition of many thousands
of specimens to the museum collections. The expedition was financed
by Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, who contributed a total of
$21,000 for this purpose. He has quite recently made an additional
contribution of $4,000 for the purpose of outfitting and maintaining
an expedition to Australia under the direction of Mr. Charles M.
Hoy, who is already in the field, and who reports excellent progress
in the collection of the fast-disappearing Australhan mammals and
birds.

African expedition—During the early summer an expedition to
Africa was arranged by the Smithsonian Institution and the direc-
tors of the Universal Film Manufacturing Co. to make general ex-
plorations and collections of natural-history material and to take
motion pictures. The expedition was to start from South Africa and
work northward through the entire length of the Continent. The
Institution had not the means to pay the expenses of its representa-
tives, but a few friends of the Institution raised the necessary funds.
Mr. Edmund Heller, who accompanied Col. Roosevelt to Africa, and
Mr. H. C. Raven, who spent six years in Borneo and Celebes col-
lecting for the Smithsonian, were selected as the Institution’s repre-
sentatives. '

Word was recently received of a railroad accident in which two
members of the expedition lost their lives; but fortunately neither
Mr. Heller nor Mr. Raven was in the accident.

Saskatchewan expedition.—The secretary gave a brief description
of his work in the Saskatchewan region of the Canadian Rocky

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 135

Mountains during the past summer, whére he discovered a section
6,700 feet in thickness of rocks that had never been studied. Much
new material was secured for the collections.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The researches of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the
past year have been directed to a study of the Indian languages,
especially of those that are rapidly becoming extinct; and a deter-
mination of native American food resources, textiles, and other ma-
terials which were used by the Indians, some of which, like the potato
and Indian corn, were long ago adopted by the white man. The
bureau also studied the prehistoric records of the Indians, and a
concrete example is illustrated by results of archeological investiga-
tions pursued at the Mesa Verde National Park in conjunction with
the Department of the Interior, where in continuation of the work
of previous years, there has been excavated and repaired a large ruin
known as Square Tower House. The age of this ruin can not be de-
termined, but it was deserted before the beginning of the fifteenth
century A. D.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Attendance——Although the attendance for the last fiscal year
reached nearly 2,000,000, there is every indication that this year’s
record will exceed all previous years, as over 900,000 persons have
visited the park since July 1.

Recent accessions —Among the most important accessions recently
received may be mentioned a Brazilian brocket, one of the smallest
of South American deer, presented by Mrs. Lindon W. Bates; a
white-backed trumpeter, the first of its kind to be exhibited at the
park, brought by the American consular agent at Manaos, Brazil,
Mr. Edward B. Kirk; a number of new varieties of ducks, and a very
rare species of cassowary. Many European birds have also been
received. Births since July 1 include a llama, tahr, elk, yak, Indian
antelope, and two great red kangaroos.

Baby elephants—During the year an opportunity presented itself
to secure two young Sumatran elephants, which were in quarantine
in New York. They were held at $2,500 each, and, as no Government
funds were available, Mrs. Charles D. Walcott undertook to secure
$5,000 by private gifts. Sixty-nine subscriptions, amounting to
$5,025 were obtained, and the elephants are now on exhibition at
the park.

NEW BUSINESS,

Charles Lang Freer—The secretary announced the death, in New
York City on September 25, 1919, of Charles Lang Freer, aged 63
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

years, and said that the history of Mr. Freer’s great gift of art ob-
jects to the Smithsonian Institution was so well known that he would
give here only a brief outline of it.

The Freer collections—Mr. Freer assembled his collections with
a definite purpose, and he has made the American people the posses-
sors of a unique series of the finest existing examples of oriental art.
The collections comprise superb specimens of Egyptian, Mesopo-
tamian, Persian, and far-eastern pottery, ancient Egyptian colored
glass, Persian and Hindu miniature painting, and the paintings,
bronzes, and sculpture of China and Japan.

Mr. Freer felt that American artists had interpreted the spirit of
oriental art, which led him to add some masterpieces of T. W. Dew-
ing (26 oils; 11 pastels; 3 silver points) ; Abbott H. Thayer (12 oils;
1 water color); Dwight W. Tryon (34 oils; 36 pastels; 2 water
colors) ; and last and most important, a great collection of etchings,
sketches, paintings, etc., by Whistler. The number of these is as
follows: 63 oil paintings; 44 water colors; 37 pastels; 113 drawings
and sketches; 3 wood engravings after designs by Whistler; 396
etchings and dry points, of many of which there are from two to five
impressions, making a total number of pieces 625; 166 lithographs
(194 impressions) ; 38 original copper plates. Also, the complete
wood work, including all the decorations, of the Peacock Room, the
famous creation of Whistler.

The Peacock Room has recently been brought from Detroit and is
now ready for installation in the Freer Gallery of Art.

The collections also include paintings by the American artists,
Winslow Homer, Childe Hassam, J. Gari Melchers, John S. Sargent,
Joseph L. Smith, J. H. Twachtman, Willard L. Metcalf, George de
Forest Brush, and J. Francis Murphy; and bronze sculptures by
Augustus Saint-Gaudens.

At the time of the making of the offer by Mr. Freer to present his
collection to the Smithsonian Institution in 1904, it consisted of over
2,250 objects. In succeeding years this number has been more than
doubled by additions of objects from both the Orient and the Occi-
dent, the total number of objects in 1918 being 6,274. By reason of
later unrecorded additions the present total will not be known until
the collections are brought on from Detroit and installed in the gal-
lery, which will be ready to receive them in the spring of 1920.

Mr. Freer was not a mere collector, as his methods were selective
after full study rather than accumulative. He visited the East
many times, and being in full sympathy with oriental peoples he
imbibed a profound understanding of their artistic sentiments and
aspirations. He was. the only great collector in our country who
sought and seized opportunities in China, and his collection will give

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 137

students an. opportunity to study the choicest specimens of ancient
Chinese and Japanese painting for the first time in this country.
The collection takes the lead in Chinese art in America and will form
the basis for important research work. The late Prof. Fenollosa, in
an article on the Freer collection, published in 1907, said that Mr.
Freer was then probably the greatest living expert in artistic pottery,
and that in Chinese and Japanese painting he was probably the most
inwardly appreciative of their artistic and educational value.

Freer Building.—Steady progress has been made on the building,
and it is hoped that the gallery will be ready for the collections in
March, 1920. The secretary added that the formal opening was
expected to take place by the date of the next annual meeting of the
board, in December, 1920.

A statement of the condition of the fund provided by Mr. Freer
for the erection of the building to house his collections had been
given in the report of the permanent committee.

The Freer will—Briefiy, the Freer will provides as follows:

The executors are to provide and pay for casing, packing, and
transportation to Washington of all collections, cases, racks, and
furniture; also for taking down the woodwork and decorations of
the Peacock Room, and for casing, transporting, and reerecting them
in the Freer Building in Washington.

The executors are to continue to employ Katherine N. Rhoades
in an advisory position until the collections have been deposited in
the Freer Building in Washington.

The income of $200,000 is to be used solely by the Regents for the
pay of a curator.

The income of $200,000 is to be used by the Regents for the crea-
tion of ornamental gardens in and about the Freer Building, and
for the purchase of American statuary for the building; concerning
this, Mr. Charles A. Platt is to be consulted.

The income of $50,000 is to be used solely for the care and main-
tenance of gardens and statuary of the building and grounds.

The income of $50,000 is to be used in perpetuity for adding to
the knowledge and appreciation of oriental art, primarily by re-
search and publication.

The codicil to the will states, after providing for meeting certain
exigencies, should they arise, that such income from the residual
estate as the Regents may determine is to be used for the study of
the civilization of the Far East, the remainder of the income to
be used for the purchase of examples of oriental, Egyptian, and near
eastern fine arts, and the purchase of works of painting, sculpture,
and pottery of American origin, the same to be deposited in the
United States National Gallery of Art.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

Senator Lodge then offered the following resolutions, which were
adopted :

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution has learned of

the death, on September 25, 1919, of Charles Lang Freer, of Detroit, Mich. :

Resolved, That the board desires to place upon record an expression of its ©
sorrow at the passing away of this distinguished patron of the arts, whose ©

generous gifts of paintings, sculptures, and bronzes to this institution for the
benefit of the Nation, and of funds for the erection of a suitable building for
their study and exhibition have earned the gratitude of the world and a con-
spicuous position in the history of the country’s great benefactors.

Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted by the secretary to —

the family of Mr. Freer.

The secretary went on to say that very naturally many mat-

ters of importance would be coming up in connection with the Freer |
Gallery and the collections which it would be impossible for the —

board to consider as a body, and he desired to suggest that authority

to act for the board be delegated either to the permanent committee

or to a committee to be appointed by the board.
On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
authorizes and directs its permanent committee to represent the board in all :

matters pertaining to the receipt and installation of all gifts from the late
Charles Lang Freer and in carrying out the provisions of his will, dated May 13,

1918, and of the codicil thereto, dated May 4, 1919, so far as they relate to the ©

Smithsonian Institution.
THE NATIONAL ART COMMITTEE.

The National Art Committee was formed about a year ago, of
which Mr. Henry White, of this Board of Regents, is honorary chair-
man, and Mr. Herbert Pratt, of New York, secretary and treasurer.

The purpose of the committee is to secure portraits of the military,
civil, and religious leaders in the Great War, which are to be ex-
hibited in various cities of the United States, and later placed in the
eare of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.

The committee took up its work vigorously, sending several of the
foremost American artists abroad to execute the various commissions
allotted to each, and a recent report received at the institution indi-
cates that the following portraits have been completed:

Miss Cecelia Beaux: Cardinal Mercier, Admiral Beatty, and Premier Clemen-
ceau.

Douglas Volk: Lloyd George and the King of the Belgians.

Edmund ©. Tarbell: Gen. Le Man and Marshal Foch.

Charles Hopkinson: Premier Bratiano, Premier Pachitch, and Saionji.

John C. Johansen: Field Marshal Haig, Marshal Joffre, Gen. Diaz, and

Premier Orlando.
Irving Wiles: Admiral Sims,

ee

ee a ee

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 139
FINANCIAL STATUS OF THE INSTITUTION.

The secretary gave a statement of the extent of the Smithsonian
fund, showing that it was far too small for present needs. He sug-
gested that the Regents bear this in mind, and if opportunity offered
while in conversation or correspondence with persons desirous of
making some disposition of their fortunes for the betterment of man-
kind to speak of the institution and its work, in the hope of inducing
such persons to make the institution their beneficiary.

NATIONAL ACADEMY BUILDING.

The secretary spoke of the proposed new building for the National
Academy of Sciences, the funds for which had been provided by the
Carnegie Foundation on condition that the academy acquire a lot
upon which to erect the building, which has been done.

It was suggested that probably the Carnegie Foundation might be
of aid in carrying out some of the projects of the institution, now
held in abeyance owing to lack of means.

Dr. Bell asked the opportunity to express his high appreciation of
_ the importance of the work of Dr. Charles G. Abbot, assistant secre-
tary of the institution and director of the Astrophysical Observatory,
whose researches in solar radiation were of great value.

ADJOURNMENT.

There being no further business to come before the board, on mo-
tion the meeting adjourned. The Regents then viewed a number of
exhibits illustrating certain phases of the institution’s work.
at Bahiitc af lols v

aili to sastza od? Yo tnomotat eer.

ae Pag
| beastie, vias ma baie

Fo ghouirah,
aeane te ai i!
giivisbett he ago ada phtow esi: Hest wr ste ; nee vit

‘siatiadl  cenbobansd “Hiatt noiiinisent walt pasit oF Saowtonts Lott

s! — Cas! ar Bourtt sta: Beet hehe iecinrs.
Mey Revie Ta A © orenaie Wiese A RkMOrR A a hy che nceeialtg
landge® gritaet yntbliud was boeogorq of o nea atonal
adds 7d hebivarey deed bnd doidn, sot ehayt dds, coongin®: ho .aseb ate
ies & i qetrobane ot dadt) aoitibaog, wo :sottabaveh cigs #0
ears: mtd £6 donsideeok, aba. earl, doidw »yatbiind edi doors ot.dotdye, 2 TAGs
Cor. o sides tek aaisshaud i atgornas!) pli: yidedorg, ded} } boseaupue, es LT, i
oan won wots sieas.ont to, 2dseforq. ont ty, ammge dro yaberiss ai bin 3 ;
ane WiGhtice, dle. foo; ng ama ty. abal, ol. unheo sonnyeds ai bfed
ee becinniigies: rage dyid aid erie] ot oy ie eats alt beden Hott ,
| gee Inele (an: jodds. ) aalts ‘to ato adi to sf etI0C
ame pangs daotay, deorniads gilt. ‘s somertie bia: aoiduditesti,edd tig
mineko Canam digesroi ere an meeegret aaloz the vole eo

Mee, atk ce fe Loe mg fe 4 Chany pel ont
ayertt wins Biel tas diys MAMMA TOVCR

3
-~oor 20 ,b1aod alt Sidhed Binds és Reendadd oat on gaied otedT F

to. nedawee & hewaty aad) ainaged od. omsojbs. paiisou ods soit
airy BR ‘goniigieat 9} to Coe ARBTIS9, Baiap dal arilidy

cer uy
Pat has Tei

tne
- t

5 ‘
Pa6? oud oe na
jes f ne mn ay
MS PERM et a a) TEE
é bs
% & J
.
+ ie
Ut ae:
‘ 297
7
af +
4 j ?
: j
|
“es >
¢
$ ny F a eG La? by!
4 rE
arth i iy

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1920

141
tee é ‘2 PS eR ey Pee Re ee ee , - ‘ +.
wae 3 i
: ’ y
?
; oat
aces
’

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Genera ArreNnprix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the an-
nual report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the
more remarkable and important developments in physical and bio-
logical discovery, as well as showing the general character of the
operations of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the
greater part of its history, been carried out largely by the publica-
tion of such papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by
scientific progress.

In 1880 the Secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of
an annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had
been issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared
by competent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report

for 1920.
143
ry
; f
j
f
; r

wii asinoedtimne

ar)

1 TO WHetToorgs
rod lerecs me
i
Y Sen rtod UT

teal opinoadsione
y yu “r Lettie

ic estensd sTonre
rooeih [sores

1°70 OWRISCOD

‘OER FTO)

ra more to none

ino Wis riots !
Rm Sa
re gh

: 1 LF ‘i

UP b>) {

T i

H + Ets |

:

; . VOC TCT 1

, x ioe 8 8 | |

poe : |

: Pin |

; : ¥ / f ais |

h

STUDYING THE SUN’S HEAT ON MOUNTAIN
PEAKS IN DESERT LANDS.

By C. G. ABBOT.

[With 7 plates.]

As a little boy it used to please me greatly to see the potatoes in the
cellar toward spring begin to stretch out long sprouts which had to be
rubbed off from time to time. Sometimes one of the potatoes would
fall through some crack where it became inaccessible, and its sprouts
would grow and grow, sometimes a yard or more, till they came to a
little streak of light, always white until the light was reached, but then
tending toward green. Again it was a pleasure at the time, and is now
a greater pleasure, to look back upon the march of the seasons with the
northward and southward excursions of the sun, which changed the
New England landscape by a gradual progress from the glories of
winter to the beauties and fruitfulness of spring and autumn.

In a world where the very life of all the plant kingdom depends
upon sunlight, and where the existence of the temperature fit for
all life of the animal kingdom depends upon the sun’s rays, it may
seem an extraordinary statement that until the beginning of the
twentieth century no exact measurements of the intensity of the solar
radiation on which all things depend had ever been obtained. Some-
times one hears the inquiry as to whether the sun’s beams are gradu-
ally losing their strength and the sun declining toward the condition
of a cold body devoid of life-giving energy. It is impossible to answer
this question other than to refer to the fact that the crops which were
raised in Egypt and Syria in the most ancient recorded times were
substantially identical with those that are raised there now, so at least
the decline of the sun’s radiation has been very little in the last 6,000
years. The ancients, although having much astronomical knowledge,
never measured, so far as we know, the intensity of the sun’s radiation,
so that there are no accurate measurements to fall back upon in order
to answer this question.

42803 °—22——-10 145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

It was not until the time of Sir John Herschel and Pouillet,in the 7
decade 1830-1840, that attempts were made to get accurate measure- J
ments of the heat of the sun. And it was not until the decade 1900-
1910 that the methods and apparatus for this purpose attained such
perfection that results accurate to the order of 1 per cent were ob-
tained. Inquirers who may live 1,000 years hence can, we hope,
refer to the measurements of the Smithsonian Institution begun in
1902 in order to settle the question whether the sun’s heat has gradu-
ally declined in the millennium intervening.

If we could set up a tube reaching to the outer limit of the atmos-
phere and large enough to see through it the whole of the disk of the
sun, and exhaust the air from it entirely, then the measurements of
the sun’s intensity of radiation would be very simple. But situated as
we are underneath an ocean of air charged with dust, clouds, water
vapor, carbon dioxide, and even, we may say, of the molecules them-
selves, such solar researches are very difficult. In order to minimize
these difficulties as far as possible, such studies are best conducted in
the most dry and cloudless regions at high-altitude stations.

In the course of the work carried on by the Smithsonian Institution
measurements have been made at Washington, sea level; Bassour,
Algeria, 3,600 feet; Hump Mountain, North Carolina, 4,800 feet;
Mount Harqua Hala, Arizona, 5,600 feet; Mount Wilson, California,
5,800 feet; Calama, Chile, 7,500 feet; Montezuma, Chile, 9,500 feet;
Mount Whitney, California, 14,500 feet; and finally from a free
balloon which was sent up from Omaha, Nebraska, carrying automatic
recording instruments, to an altitude of about 15 miles. The accuracy
of these measurements has depended on the able cooperation of my
colleagues, Messrs. F. EK. Fowle, L. B. Aldrich, A. F. Moore, L. H.
Abbot, and others, observers; Mr. A. Kramer instrument maker; and
Miss F, A. Graves and others, computers. They have been made, some
in summer, some in winter, some in clear skies, and others in skies
made hazy by the dust from the gigantic eruption of Mount Katmai,
Alaska, in 1912, but their results are in substantial agreement and give
the mean value of the intensity of solar radiation to a probable ac-
curacy of 1 per cent. I say the mean value because the investigations
have shown that the sun’s output of radiation is not constant, but
varies from year to year and even from day to day within the year.

The solar variations of long interval seem to be associated with the
general activity of the sun, so that higher values of the sun’s emis-
sion are found when sun spots, prominences, faculae, and other solar
phenomena are more than usually marked. At such times, strangely
enough, the temperature at most weather stations on the earth aver-
ages below the normal. This paradox of increased solar heat and de-
creased terrestrial temperature may perhaps be explainable on the
basis that increased cloudiness occurs at times of sun-spot activity.

SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 147

It has long been known that the aurora borealis, or northern lights,
have been particularly active at times of sun-spot maximum, and as
these lights are electrical disturbances in our atmosphere, it has come
to be believed that the sun furnishes not only light rays but also
bombards us with electric ions. Electric ions are known from labora-
tory experiments to promote the formation of clouds. Hence, it is
quite possible that the electric bombardment of the earth by the sun,
being more vigorous at times of sun-spot maximum, tends to promote
cloudiness; which in turn indirectly, by reflecting away solar radia-
tion, actually diminishes the amount available to warm the earth,
although the direct tendency of increased solar activity is to increase
the earth’s supply of radiation.

The short irregular fluctuations in the sun’s radiation amount
sometimes to 3 or even 5 or 7 per cent within a few days. Although
they seem to be slightly associated with the rotation period of the
sun, as if rays at different strength were sent out by the sun in differ-
ent directions which, after a full rotation of the sun accomplished in
26 or 27 days, come round again in the direction of the earth, yet in
general these fluctuations are nonperiodic and accordingly not pre-
dictable. Lately their cause has received a very unlooked-for but
probable explanation by comparison of the solar observations of the
Smithsonian Institution at Calama, Chile, with photometric observa-
tions of Doctor Guthnick of the Observatory of Berlin, Germany.
Employing a photo-electric cell, Doctor Guthnick compared the
brightness of the planet Saturn with the star Regulus during Janu-
ary, February, March, April, and May, 1920. Shining by reflected
sunlight, Saturn must vary if the sun varies. Doctor Guthnick, how-
ever, on comparing his results with those reported from the Smith-
sonian Institution on the brightness of the sun, could see no corre-
spondence between the small solar and planetary fluctuations which
occurred. In his comparison, however, he assumed that whatever
changes might occur in the sun would make themselves felt in all
directions simultaneously. This is not necessarily so, for if the sun
should be surrounded by an obscuring atmosphere thicker in some
directions than others, rays of different intensity would go out to
different quarters; so that the earth, being in a certain direction from
the sun, might receive rays of a different strength from those which
were emitted in the direction of the planet Saturn. As the sun ro-
tates upon its axis once in about 27 days (the actual time differs for
different parts of the sun), the ray which reached the earth would
sweep around perhaps in one, two, or three days to or from the posi-
tion of Saturn at the time of Guthnick’s measurements, so that one
would expect Saturn’s reponse to the change noted in the solar radia-
tion perhaps two or three days later, or two or three days earlier,
exactly according to the relative positions of the two planets.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Starting from this hypothesis, the two kinds of observations were ;
found to have come into complete accord, so that 1 per cent change ~
in the sun corresponded with 1 per cent change in the brightness _
of Saturn, just as it ought to do. We may then look upon the sun’s
variation as of twofold origin. First, the long-period changes, as-
sociated with sun-spot activity, depend upon increased general tem-
perature of the sun’s surface, due to the increased circulation of
the hot, dense gases of which the sun is composed. On the other
hand, the short-period, irregular fluctuations are to be regarded as due
to the inequality of the sun’s radiation in different directions, per-
haps caused by the presence of an obscuring atmosphere of different
thicknesses from place to place.

MOUNT WHITNEY,

Tt is now almost 40 years since the late Doctor S, P. Langley, third
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, made his picturesque and
famous expedition to Mount Whitney, California, to observe the
radiation of the sun. The expedition was made possible by the gen-
erous aid of the late William Thaw, of Pittsburgh. It went forward
in a special car, carrying the observers and the whole equipment.
Mount Whitney, 14,500 feet elevation, is by a few feet the highest
mountain in the United States, exclusive of Alaska. In 1881 the
region about it was but little settled and Indians were frequently met
with. Accordingly, a detail of soldiers accompanied the expedition
through the desert from. the stopping place of the car to the little
town. of Lone Pine, where the experiments were begun.

Doctor Langley has often told me of the tremendous heat en-
countered in the small tent where the spectrobolometer was set up
at Lone Pine. The indications of the bolometer, that electrical ther-
mometer capable of detecting temperature changes of the millionth
of a degree, are recorded by a sensitive galvanometer. In the very
unfavorable conditions of the little tent Doctor Langley told me
that the spot of light from the galvanometer mirrer used to rush
off the scale a meter long in a single minute of time, so that the ob-
server there read and called out the position of the spot on the scale
as fast as he could do so without knowing what sun rays, or if any,
were being observed by the bolometer. All of these thousands of
readings were graphically plotted and reduced with almost infinite
labor to obtain the results of the solar observations.

A little later the whole apparatus was moved nearly up to the Ha
of Mount Whitney, where, on the shore of a beautiful mountain
lake, at more than 12,000 feet elevation, the work was repeated.
A few partial observations were made by the expedition on the very
summit of Mount Whitney, but conditions there were found to be

*ASUNLIHMA LNNOIA] NO SYSAYHRSEO HOS YALTISHS

EON M3 Noqayvy—N76| ‘WWodeyH uBIUOSUJIWS
SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 149

too trying to warrant the labor of carrying the heavy apparatus up
the last 2,000 feet over rugged rocks and precipices.

In these experiments a new region of the spectrum was found
lying beyond that which was previously recognized by Doctor Lang-
ley in his work at Allegheny, and I have heard him describe the
thrill of discovery as he roughly mapped out this new region lying
far down beyond the visible end of the red.

Almost 30 years later, at the reeommendation of Director Campbell,
of Lick Observatory, and the writer, the Smithsonian Institution
erected on the summit of Mount Whitney a stone and steel building
of three rooms, so as to enable observers who, for any reason, require
the high altitude for their work to carry it on under conditions of
comparative comfort.

The first to occupy the new observing station was Director Camp-
bell’s expedition of 19091 to determine the quantity of water existing
in the atmosphere of the planet Mars. At the same time the writer
observed there, with special spectrobolometric apparatus, to deter-
mine whether measurements of the sun’s heat outside the atmosphere,
which had been carried on at Washington and Mount Wilson, would
have yielded different results had they been made at a station very
much higher in altitude.

The following selection from a letter of the writer shows how
little the second “solar constant” expedition to Mount Whitney was
able to compete in impressiveness with the famous one of Doctor
Langley:

Mount WItson, Catir., September 14, 1909.

Dear Sir: I left Pasadena about 9.30 p. m. August 19, and took the 11.30
p. m. train at Los Angeles for Mojave. I slept occasionally but with great
fear lest I should be earried by Mojave, and at length reached there a little
late, at 4.30 a. m. The train for Little Lake, mostly a freight train, left at 7
a. m., and, after stopping all along the way to shift and unload freight cars,
reached Little Lake, 3} hours late, at6 p.m. I got supper there and started by
auto stage at 6.15 p.m. Having three boxes of delicate apparatus, one of which
I felt it necessary to carry in my arms, the ride of 50 miles from Little Lake
- to Lone Pine was not altogether pleasant. Two automobiles started together,

but the one I was in stopped near Olancha, and nearly two hours of work failed
to start it, so that all the passengers crowded into the other. We reached
Lone Pine at 11.30 p.m. At 8.30 a. m. August 21, with Mr. William Skinner, of
Lone Pine, as guide, and with a driver and animals to carry my baggage, I
started for Mount Whitney. We camped at about 4 p. m. with Mr. Robinson
and his packers at Big Meadow; elevation about 10,500 feet. I found that
nearly all the material for the house had gone up to the top, and my boxes were
at Robinson’s camp. Mr. Skinner and I left camp at 6 a. m. and arrived on
the summit of Mount Whitney about 11 a. m. August 22. We found Mr. Marsh
with four workmen. The walls of the building were done except gables and
partitions, and the frame of the roof was up. The masons were laying the

1A Shelter for Observers on Mount Whitney, by C. G. Abbot, Smithsonian Misc. Coll.
(Quarterly Issue), vol. 52, pt. 4, pp. 499-506. 1910.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

walls of the little stone hut for my work, and they finished it, including the
roof, that day. Several 6 by 6 tents had been loaned by Professor Campbell,
and in these we cooked, ate, and slept. Ham, bacon, Mulligan stew, and flap-
jacks were the staple foods.

I had set up my apparatus mainly by Thursday night, August 26. Friday it
snowed a little, but the house was finished Friday afternoon, August 27.

Mr. Campbell, with Messrs. Albrecht, McAdie, Doctor Miller, Hoover, and
Skinner, came about noon on Saturday, August 28. They arrived in a thunder-
storm of sleet. Lightning struck near by just as they reached the door. It
became partially clear on the following Wednesday, and Campbell secured good
observations on Wednesday and Thursday nights. My own preparations were
set back by the storm, so that I only got ready Thursday afternoon, September
2. Friday morning was beautiful, and I think my observations of that fore-
noon were satisfactory. I took two bolographs also about 2 and 5 p. m. of
Friday afternoon between clouds. On Saturday it snowed 4 inches. Mr.
Campbell and party went down. They almost lost one mule among the rocks
(had to leave the mule behind after two hours’ work, but it went down the
trail the following Wednesday), and three others slid off of the ice on the east
side*of the range and rolled a hundred feet or so. The Smithsonian has been
so fortunate as not to have had any of the animals in its employ injured during
the whole operations. After waiting several days without much improvement
in the weather Mr. Marsh and I left on Wednesday, September 8. I hope it
will be possible for me to complete my work up there next July or early August,
when the weather will probably be better.

In August, 1910, the writer again ascended Mount Whitney with
Mr. Marsh, and in the course of 10 beautiful days there again set up
the spectrobolometer and obtained excellent “solar constant” ob-
servations.

Simultaneous measurements made in 1909 and 1910 at Mount
Wilson and Mount Whitney agreed within about 1 per cent and
within the error of the determinations. Similar agreement had been
obtained before that between simultaneous measurements at Wash-
ington and Mount Wilson, so that there appears to be no effect on the
“solar constant” results depending upon differences of altitude, at
any rate up to 14,500 feet.

MOUNT WILSON.

With the establishment of the Carnegie Institution in 1902, many
plans for work in all branches of science were submitted, among them
one by Doctor Langley, then Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, on the measurement of solar radiation. He entertained the hope,
which has since come very close to fruition, that a knowledge of the
sun’s radiation, the losses which it experiences in passing through our
atmosphere, its possible variability from time to time, would be such
a boon to meteorological science as to be a basis for forecasts of long
range such as might even parallel those of Joseph, who forecast the
seven lean years and the seven years of plenty.

;
;
|

SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 151

The outcome of his recommendations did not lead to the establish-
ment of this kind of work by the Carnegie Institution itself, but did
lead to the most cordial cooperation on the part of their new Mount
Wilson Solar Observatory through its director, Dr. George E. Hale,
with Doctor Langley in the furtherance of his favorite investigation.
On Doctor Hale’s invitation, an expedition from the Smithsonian
Institution was prepared and went forward in charge of the writer in
1905 to Mount Wilson, California, where temporary buildings were
erected and occupied each year except 1907 from 1905 to 1910, when a
more suitable observatory was constructed of cement blocks. In 1913
a tower telescope was added to the equipment of the Smithsonian
observatory on Mount Wilson, so that the whole now appears as in the
illustration, plate 4. Just above the observing station is a cot-
tage occupied as quarters for the observers. The situation is remark-
able for its boldness, standing on the edge of an almost precipitous
ravine which falls away almost immediately nearly a thousand feet.
It overlooks the valley cities of Pasadena and Los Angeles and the
ocean on the one side, while to the east lie the Sierra Madre Ranges
with the 10,000-foot mountains San Antonio, San Bernardino, San
Gorgonio, and San Jacinto plainly visible on clear days.

A little nearer the summit of the mountain lies the wonderful
Mount Wilson Solar Observatory of the Carnegie Institution where
apparatus of the greatest ingenuity, power, and extreme size has been
accumulated year by year, culminating in 1919 in the completion of
the 100-inch reflector with its dome 100 feet in diameter. As one con-
templates this collection of splendid astronomical instruments and
compares them with the little telescope with which Argelander made
his famous “ Durchmusterung” of the northern heavens, it seems as
if some of the dinosaurs had come to life and were disporting among
the little lizards which snap up the flies in the sun on Mount Wilson.

From 1905 until 1920, with the single exception of the year 1907,
measurements of the solar radiation were made on Mount Wilson
during the summer and autumn months by the Smithsonian observers.
This body of observations, published in the Annals of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, Volumes II, ITI, and forthcoming Vol-
ume IV, is the basis of our knowledge of the radiation of the sun, its
variability and its relation to our atmosphere and to terrestrial tem-
peratures.

A hint of the existence of variations in the sun’s radiation had been
obtained in 1903 at Washington. Errors associated with the work in
such a cloudy and smoky atmosphere as that of this eastern city are
so large that the result could not be at all certain. Beginning with
the observations on Mount Wilson in 1905, every year has added some-
thing to the certainty of the variation of the sun as well as to the
accuracy of the methods of observation and the number of special
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

pieces of apparatus developed for use in the investigation. Early in
the work it was recognized that a standard instrument for precision
measurements of the sun’s heat was required. By 1910 there was de-
veloped the standard water-flow pyrheliometer. This instrument is a
hollow chamber of a test-tube like form having hollow walls in which
circulates in a spiral channel a current of water. The sun’s rays enter
this chamber through a vestibule of constant temperature. Just before
reaching the chamber they pass through a circular aperture of known
area and shine upon the blackened wall at the chamber’s extreme rear.
Any remnant not fully absorbed by the blackened wall is reflected to
and thrown upon other parts of the chamber wall until fully absorbed.
In the flowing water current, just at the mouth of the chamber, are
found the arms of a platinum electrical thermometer, by means of
which the rise of temperature of the water due to the heat absorbed
from the sun-rays within the chamber is measured. The water which
has flowed through the apparatus is collected and weighed from time
to time so as to determine the rate of flow. Thus the intensity of the
sun’s heat is measured in terms of the rise of temperature of a known
weight of water caused by the absorption of solar rays over a known
area ina giventime. In order to get a check upon the accuracy of the
measurement, known quantities of electricity are caused to flow over
coils within the chamber and the heat thus developed is measured, as
if it were solar heat, by the flowing water.

Comparisons of this instrument with other special devices for
measuring solar heat have been made from time to time for the past
10 years. No change in the scale of measurement has been detected
within this interval. Thus we may regard the whole body of Mount
Wilson data as an homogeneous system of measurements of that fun-
damental quantity, the intensity of the solar radiation available to
warm the earth.

Over 30 copies of the secondary so-called “silver-disk pyrhelio-
meter,” figure 1, also devised for the investigation, have been prepared
and standardized at the Smithsonian Institution and supplied at cost
to observers over all the earth. Thus the Smithsonian standard scale
of radiation measurements has become widely diffused.

RESULTS ACCOMPLISHED UP TO 1910.

The chief results accomplished in the research up to 1910 had been
as follows:

1. The processes for determining the intensity of the sun’s radia-
tion outside the earth’s atmosphere had been perfected and the whole
inv Me anes reduced to a well-organized routine.

2 A standard scale of radiation measurements had been oan
lished by the invention and construction of the standard water-flow
pyrheliometer. The silver-disk secondary pyrheliometer had been

perfected and had proved fully satisfactory for the daily observa-
tions.

’ SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 158

3. Several simultaneous determinations of the solar constant of
radiation had been made at Washington, Mount Wilson, and Mount
Whitney. No difference in the result, depending upon the elevation
of the station, had been revealed, and the mean value for the solar

Fic. 1.—Abbot silver disk pyrheliometer.

per minute had been obtained. This in itself was a great step for-
ward, for now a reference point had been established which in future
times would be available to determine the question of possible secu-
lar variation in the radiant energy of the sun.

4. The results had strongly indicated the short period variability
of the solar radiation. This discovery, if confirmed, bade fair to

ha a

| constant of radiation of about 1.95 calories per square centimeter
3

-_

a

have important consequences for meteorology.

—
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

5. The distribution of energy in the solar spectrum had been closely
determined, and thereby our knowledge of the sun’s temperature and
nature had been materially increased.

6. Various by-products of the investigation, such as relating to the
transparency of the atmosphere under different circumstances of
humidity and haziness and for different altitudes from sea level up
to the level of Mount Whitney, the study of the dependence of the
temperature of the earth on radiation, the temperature of sun spots
as compared with other parts of the sun’s disk, and many other
matters, had been investigated.

BASSOUR, ALGERIA.

By far the most interesting of these results of the investigation
was the supposed short-period variability of the sun. Although the
values of the “solar constant” did not appear to depend upon the
altitude of the observer above sea level, yet the apparent variations
of the sun were so little greater than the probable errors of the
observations that it seemed essential to strengthen the discovery of
the solar variability by some other independent check. The most
obvious procedure was to equip another observing station in a favor-
able region far removed from Mount Wilson, and to carry on for a
considerable period of time duplicate measurements of the “solar
constant” at the two stations.

Preparations were made to go to Mexico for this purpose, but the
breaking out of revolution there made it undesirable to set up the
station in Mexico. Accordingly, the expedition was diverted to
Algeria, in North Africa, a country under the stable government of
the French, where good conditions with regard to cloudlessness might
be expected. The expedition went forward in 1911, employing the
same apparatus that had been used on Mount Whitney, although
with decided improvements in many respects. The expedition was
in charge of the writer, who was accompanied by Mrs. Abbot and
assisted by Professor Brackett, of Pomona College, California.
After discussion with the United States vice consul at Algiers, the
director of the observatory there, and others, a site was selected at a
little hamlet called Bassour, about 50 miles south of Algiers.

With the exception of a few French neighbors, the people in the
vicinity were all Arabs, and there was a great deal of interest in
observing their customs and methods of working, which are nearly
identical with those of the times of Abraham. The most important
Arab in the neighborhood was a caid, who took a great interest in
our work and assisted it by keeping his curious neighbors from inter-
rupting it.

As a boy I had sometimes wondered at the story in the Book of
Ruth, which says that Boaz slept upon his threshing floor. On our
farm in New Hampshire we sometimes threshed small lots of grain

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot, PLATE 2.

1. Mr. ANGSTROM AND THE SOLAR-CONSTANT APPARATUS AT BASSOUR,
ALGERIA.

2. OBSERVING STATION AT BASSOUR, ALGERIA.
‘
.
:

SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 155

or beans upon the floor of the great barn, and I had imagined Boaz
as going out to sleep upon his barn floor and wondered why he pre-
ferred doing so to sleeping in the house. Our experience in Algeria
solved this mystery, for it appeared that the threshing floor was
a hard level place upon the ground where Boaz slept under the
light of the stars. The reason why he did so was doubtless the same
that induced our French neighbor to take his double-barreled shotgun
and his dog and go out and sleep on his grain pile, with the dog tied to
his ankle—to prevent his neighbors from stealing the grain. Many
other sights and customs reminded one continually of passages in the
Bible, among them especially the driving of the oxen round and
round upon the wheat to tread out the grain. As they took a mouth-
ful now and then, one remembered that it says in the law: “Thou
shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.”
Unfortunately the year 1911 proved to be a little unfavorable to the
comparison of results between Algeria and California, owing to the
unusual prevalence of cirrus clouds at both stations. Although the
results appeared to support the view of the sun’s variability, they

qeeacaceneccerseee® versed beset a Qe caR += fay A ROPE CE ere
Inrra-Reo INFRA-REO Biue-Green UctRaMOLer?
Arh S5e de .9864 Me Ae.503 2.37

Fic. 2.—Brightness distribution along sun’s diameter fer different colors.

were not wholly conclusive and the expedition to Algeria was re-
newed in June, 1912.

We were still pursued by unfortunate circumstances as far as in-
vestigating the variability of the sun was concerned, for the great
voleanic eruption of Mount Katmai, in Alaska, which took place
about June 6, filled the atmosphere of the whole northern hemisphere
with volcanic dust, which spread to Algeria and California within
less than three weeks after the eruption, and, growing more and more
abundant, so much obscured the sun’s rays that a falling off of 20 per
cent of their intensity at midday was found not unusually the case in
July and August, 1912. Notwithstanding these untoward circum-
stances, the results of 1912 taken in combination with those of 1911,
strongly confirmed the reality of the variation of the sun—so much so
that thereafter we had no doubt of the reality of this discovery.

SOME DEVELOPMENTS OF THE RESEARCH IN THE INTERVAL BETWEEN THE
ALGERIAN AND SOUTH AMERICAN EXPEDITIONS.

The matter received a further confirmation, however, in 1913,
by the introduction on Mount Wilson of the tower telescope and the
investigation of the distribution of radiation over the sun’s disk.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

As shown by the illustration, figure 2, the sun is not equally
bright along its diameter, but falls off rapidly toward the edges of
the disk. This contrast in brightness between the center and edge
of the solar disk is much greater for violet and ultra-violet rays than
it is for red and infra-red ones, but what is particularly interesting,
the contrast of brightness which had been determined in Washing-
ton in 1907 was found to be less when it was redetermined at Mount
Wilson in 1913. Not only was this result found, which confirmed
the existence of the variability of the sun in the term of years, but
the experiments at Mount Wilson show that the contrast of bright-
ness varied from day to day in association with the variations of the

“solar constant.” This result, taken in connection with the experi- .

ments in California and Algeria in 1911 and 1912, fully confirmed the
existence of the short-period variations of the sun.

VISIT TO AUSTRALIA,

In most countries the seat of government is fixed at some promi-

nent city, but the United States and Australia are alike in that a

special place was selected to build the capital. In the United States,
although the streets were well laid out, no particular care appears

to have been taken in regulating the character of buildings in Wash-

ington, so that, apart from the great public spaces and some fine
buildings for Government purposes, the city presents the ordinary
up and down happy-go-lucky appearance of almost all of the Amer-
ican cities. In Australia, however, a competition was established to
plan a model city for the new capital at Canberra. Amongst the in-
stitutions embraced in the plan of public buildings was to be an ob-
servatory. In 1914 the British Association for the Advancement of
Science met in Australia. In connection with it, various scientists
were invited by the Australian Government, and amongst them the
writer was asked to attend and to take the opportunity to present to
the Government and to Australians and others interested the story
of the solar researches which have been mentioned above, in order
that if possible plans might be made for the inclusion of the “solar
constant” work in the program of the proposed new Government
observatory at the capital city of Canberra.

Accordingly, the writer -sailed to Australia in 1914, but as he
arrived at Sidney came the news of the outbreak of the great Euro-
pean war. Accompanied by the astronomer royal of England, Sir
Oliver Lodge, the former premier of Austrdlia, and other men of
ereat weight, the writer waited upon the premier at Melbourne and
presented the case of the “solar constant” work as had been ex-
pected. But it was felt that owing to the unexpected participation
of Australia in a great war the time was unpropitious for promoting
any new projects, although much interest was taken in the work de-

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot. PLATE 3.

1. OBSERVATORY AND COOKHOUSE, HUMP MOUNTAIN, N. C.

2. A. F. MooRE REDUCING OBSERVATIONS WITH SLIDE-
RULE MACHINE.
Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot.

PLATE 4.

OBSERVING STATION OF ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY ON MOUNT WILSON WITH
NEW TOWER TELESCOPE.

Photograph by Abbot.
SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 157

scribed, not only in Australia but also in New Zealand. Later on,
within the last year or two, further inquiries have come from Austra-
lia in regard to the work and it may be possible that even yet this
kind of observing may be undertaken there.

The writer felt that the regular observation of the solar radiation
at several first-class cloudless stations remote from one another in
different quarters of the world ought to be undertaken, now that the
variation of the sun in short irregular periods had been established.
This conviction was much strengthened by the painstaking work of
Mr. H. Helm Clayton, chief forecaster of the Argentine Weather
Service, who about 1914 began to discuss all the measurements made
at Mount Wilson with a view to determine if the apparent changes in
the sun appeared to be correlated with the climatic conditions of
Argentina and other parts of the world. His computations from the
first seemed to point to interesting correlations, so that the desirability
of making a better groundwork of “solar constant” observations for
the use of meteorologists was strongly indicated.

SOUTH AMERICAN EXPEDITION,

In 1917, Secretary Walcott, of the Smithsonian Institution, decided
to employ a part of the income of the Hodgkins fund, which had been
bequeathed to the Smithsonian Institution for the advancement of
knowledge of atmospheric air, to promote these “solar constant”
studies. The entrance of the United States into the war prevented the
sending of an expedition immediately to South America as had been
expected, and it was temporarily located at Hump Mountain in North
Carolina. Here under the charge of Mr. A. F. Moore, assisted by Mr.
L, H. Abbot, the measurements were made from June, 1917, to March,
1918. On one occasion observations were carried through successfully
with an average air temperature of—5° F. Mr. Abbot froze fingers
and feet in making the pyrheliometric observations on this occasion.
The results of this day of work did not, however, differ from those
obtained under more comfortable auspices, but still further widened
the variety of circumstances which seem to have no influence on the
accuracy of the resulis.

In March, 1918, the expedition was removed to Calama, Chile, on
the farther edge of the Atacama nitrate desert. Here it was hoped to
obtain cloudlessness equal to any which could be found in the whole
world. The rainfall in that region is almost nil. Calama, a city of
several thousand inhabitants, is situated on the bank of the River Loa,
about 10 miles from Chuquicamata where the Guggenheim Co. has a
great copper mine, and where is collected a colony of several hundred
_ Americans engaged in the mining operations, in addition to the 10,000
_ or more Chileans and Bolivians employed there. The officials of the

158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

mining company were very kind and helpful to the Smithsonian ex-
pedition under the charge of Mr. Moore, assisted by Mr. Abbot, and
placed at their disposal a building at Chorillos, near Calama, along
with furniture and other equipment which materially aided in the
establishment of the station.

Observations were begun at Calama on July 27, 1918, and continued
there for exactly two years. The station proved to be not quite so
favorable as had been hoped, owing to the dust and smoke coming
from the city and from the mine which occasionally interfered with
the purity of the atmosphere. Nevertheless remarkably accordant
and satisfactory results were obtained there.

In May, 1919, the writer, with Mrs. Abbot, visited the observers at
Calama, and with Mr. Moore went on to La Paz, Bolivia, where
they observed the total eclipse of the sun of May 28, 1919, under
extraordinary conditions. The sun rose partly eclipsed over a range
of snow-covered mountains over 20,000 feet high and was observed
under beautifully favorable conditions from the temporary station at
an altitude of nearly 13,000 feet, at El] Alto, so-called, on the rim of
the tremendous canyon above the city of La Paz. Excellent photo-
graphs were secured, and also measurements with the pyranometer of
the brightness of the sky before and during the eclipse.

On the return to Calama, Mr. Moore and the writer visited the
Argentine Weather Bureau station at La Quiaca, Argentina, where
they met Mr. Wiggin, chief of the Argentine Weather Service, and
Mr. Clayton, chief forecaster, and discussed with them the applica-
tion of solar radiation measurements to forecasting of weather.
Great progress had been made by Mr. Clayton and his colleagues in
the computation of the correlations between variations of the sun
and variations of temperature, rainfall, etc. So much so, that Mr.
Clayton and his chief had become fully convinced of the value of
solar variation work as a forecasting element. Already in Decem-
ber, 1919, the Argentine Weather Service had arranged with Mr.
Moore, director of the Smithsonian observatory at Calama, for a
daily telegraphic report of the “solar constant” value obtained at
Calama. In order to furnish this daily report, Messrs. Moore and
Abbot had been obliged to work with the greatest rapidity, accuracy,
and devotion in the computations. Observations for determining the
“solar constant” required several hours of observing, the develop-
ment and washing of a photographic plate, the reading of six bolo-
graphic curves at nearly 40 different places corresponding to 40
different wave lengths of radiation, and a great mass of computa-
tions such as formerly used to require nearly three days altogether.
Owing, however, to the introduction of a special slide-rule graphical
reduction machine, the work had been greatly shortened, and further
improvement was made by the use of the theodolite to determine the

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot. PLATE 5.

I. CARNEGIE SOLAR OBSERVATORY, MOUNT WILSON, CALIF. [60-FooT TOWER
AND 60-INCH DOME.

2. SOLAR OBSERVING STATION AT CALAMA, CHILE.
SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 159

altitude of the sun, and thereby the mass of air traversed by its
beam, instead of to determine this by time observations as had
always been the case at Mount Wilson. Nevertheless, the work of
determining the “solar constant” on the same day as the observation
was extremely arduous and tedious to the two observers. Their en-
thusiasm was naturally extremely aroused by the favorable reports
which were found in the conference of Messrs. Moore and Abbot with
Messrs. Wiggin and Clayton in Argentina.

On their return to Calama the writer and Mr. Moore aiscussed the
possibility of determining the “solar constant” by a short method,
and after a considerable computation and trial such a method was ob-
tained. It depends upon the fact that the transparency of the sky
is closely related to its brightness. It is easy to see that when the
sky is hazy the transparency will be diminished and the brightness
near the sun greatly increased. The amount of haze depends upon
the humidity in the air and also upon the amount of dry dust which
has been carried up by the wind, or by volcanic eruptions, or other-
wise. It was possible to effect a combination of the measurements of
the brightness around the sun by the pyranometer, and the humidity
of the air determined by Fowle’s spectroscopic method by a single
bolograph, so as to obtain a function which could give the coefficient
of transparency with a high degree of accuracy. This short method
was thereupon introduced at Calama and proved in extensive prac-
tice to be highly satisfactory. It is possible thus to obtain the
“solar constant” several times in each day, where one observation
before had been all that was usual. This new method is continually
checked against the older and fundamental one, and up to the present
time has shown very satisfactory and complete agreement, except
that the new method with its several observations is regarded to be
the more accurate of the two.

TRANSFER OF MOUNT WILSON AND CALAMA STATIONS TO BETTER SITES,

Early in the year 1920 the writer had an extended conference
_ verbally and by correspondence with Professor Marvin, Chief of
_ the United States Weather Bureau, as to the applicability of solar
_ radiation measurements for forecasting purposes in general, and in
_ the United States in particular. Mr. Marvin felt that the experi-
mental basis so far available from the results at Mount Wilson
and at Calama was not adequate to warrant much investigation of
_ this question. Feeling strongly the justice of this view; the writer
_ urged upon Congress at the hearing of the Smithsonian Institution
_ before the Appropriations Committee in February, 1920, that a suit-
able appropriation should be made to erect on an isolated mountain
in the most cloudless region of the United States a special observing
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

station for this work. In the then straitened condition of the Goy-
ernment finances the appropriation was not made. Feeling, how-
ever, the urgency of the matter, the writer arranged to lay it before
Mr. John A. Roebling, of Bernardsville, New Jersey, who had
already shown a great deal of interest in the work carried on by
the Institution in South America. Mr. Roebling expressed the
warmest appreciation of the work and suggested that there would
be few found who would take so much interest as he in it, and be
willing to support improvements in a foreign country, but that many
would be glad to associate themselves with the proposed observing
station in Arizona or southern California. However, as attempts
had already been made to secure support for that new station, and
as the immediate establishment of it was urgent, Mr. Roebling at
length proposed to give a certain sum of money on condition that the
station in Calama should be removed to a mountain site above the
turbidity of the atmosphere caused by the smoke and dust of the
mines of Chuquicamata and the town of Calama. Any balance
remaining from the gift might then be used for the establishment
of a station in Arizona or in the most favored locality, or for any
other purposes which might relate to the investigation at hand. He
proposed to give $8,000 toward these objects, but later generously
increased this amount to $11,000. Mr. Moore was immediately tele-
graphed to in regard to the removal of the station from Calama to
a mountain site. Aided by his colleagues, but with his extraordinary
devotion, enthusiasm, and energy, Mr. Moore was able to select a
most favorable site about 10 miles farther south than the one hitherto
occupied, to award contracts for the construction of the observing
station and observers’ quarters, and to remove the outfit, with a
loss of less than 10 observing days, from Calama to the new moun-
tain station called Montezuma, where observations were resumed on
August 5, 1920.

The whole cost of this transfer of the observing station, under
Mr. Moore’s economical management, amounted to but little more
than $4,000. In his subsequent reports Mr. Moore has dwelt with
‘the utmost enthusiasm on the improvement due to the removal to
Montezuma. He considers this to be, in regard to the purity of the
atmosphere, the freedom from clouds, the absence of winds, the
accessibility to the town, and in other respects probably the most
favorable station which could be found in the whole world.

Measurements are going on daily at Montezuma, sometimes by
the new short method but often by the longer fundamental method
as well, and it is expected to continue the work there for a period of
years. Mr. Moore having been in South America for two and a
half years, has now returned to the United States and will continue

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot. PLATE 6.

|. OBSERVATORY ON MOUNT HARQUA HALA, ARIZ.

2. COELOSTAT AND PYRHELIOMETER, MOUNT HARQUA HALA.
—-

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot. PLATE 7.

|. MONTEZUMA SOLAR OBSERVING STATION, CHILE. COELOSTAT AND PYRHE-
LIOMETRIC APPARATUS.

2. MONTEZUMA SOLAR OBSERVING STATION. THE PEAK ON WHICH THE
OBSERVATORY IS LOCATED.

SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 161

the observations in the new station in Arizona. He is succeeded
as director in South America by Mr. L. H. Abbot.

ARIZONA STATION,

The remainder of Mr. Roebling’s gift was available to transfer
the solar radiation outfit hitherto at Mount Wilson to a new locality
chosen with regard to its cloudlessness on Mount Harqua Hala,
Arizona. The choice of the station resulted from an investigation
undertaken by the Weather Bureau through its local chief of opera-
tions at Phoenix, Arizona, Mr. Fletcher. ‘This officer made an inves-
tigation of many proposed sites in California, Nevada, and Ari-
zona, and at length the choice narrowed down to the vicinity of
Bagdad and Cima, towns in California, and to the vicinity of Wen-
den, Arizona. Special cloud observations were undertaken by
observers in these localities, which after six months of observing
indicated a preference for the region of Wenden, Arizona. Accord-
ingly, the writer, on the way to Mount Wilson, in June, 1920, let
contracts in Wenden for the construction of a building on Mount
Harqua Hala, situated about 12 miles to the east of Wenden at an
altitude of 5,600 feet. The building, with walls a foot thick of
adobe, and having the lower story, partly underground, reserved for
the apparatus while the upper was designed for observers’ quarters
and the computing room, was completed by the end of August and
occupied late in September.

The “solar constant” apparatus, which had been employed on
Mount Wilson from 1905 to 1920, was then removed and set up for
use on Mount Harqua Hala. The first observations were made on
October 2, and it is proposed to continue them for several years on
every favorable occasion.

The weather on Mount Harqua Hala has hitherto proved more
favorable than was expected, so that in the first 65 days of occupa-
tion more than 70 per cent proved favorable for observing. Little
difference in the transparency between morning and afternoon has
been noted, which is a great improvement over the condition upon
Mount Wilson, where the change of the wind from land to ocean
breezes brings up a mass of haze from the humidity, dust and smoke
of the cities of Pasadena and Los Angeles.

The conditions of living on a desert mountain remote from any
town are, to be sure, rather remarkable. Mount Harqua Hala has
no trees, but only shrubs and plants. There is no water at the top
except what falls in the slight rainfall of from 5 to 10 inches which
prevails there, mostly in the months of January and July. Com-
munication with the town of Wenden is made by using the Morse
code with a strong light at night or with sunlight by day, and

42803°—-22——11
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

orders for supplies and carrying of mail are given in this manner;
also telegraphic messages may be communicated by this heliographic
method. The merchant in Wenden, who receives the message, car-
ries out the supplies and mail to the foot of the trail, 11 miles, by
auto. A neighbor, Mr. Ellison, a mining prospector living about 1
mile beyond the observing station on Mount Harqua Hala, has three
burros which browse about upon the mountain when not in use. On
suitable notice, Mr. Ellison, after several hours’ search, will bring in
his burros and make the trip of 5 miles to the foot of the trail to
bring up the supplies and mail. This is done about once in 10 days,
so that a single round of communication by letter may be delayed
for nearly three weeks en route.

The water for the establishment is also brought by Mr. Ellison with
his burros from his camp a mile distant. It is brought about once
in four days, and naturally a great economy in the use of it prevails.
Hitherto the observations which have been under the writer’s charge,
assisted by Mr. F. A. Greeley, have been carried on with a water
supply of about 30 gallons a week. This serves for drinking pur-
poses, washing the dishes, the washing of clothes, baths, and washing
of photographic plates.

The two observers, besides carrying on the observations and a large
portion of the reductions from them, do their own household work,
such as the cooking, preparation of meals, washing of dishes, and the
washing of clothes. The life is very healthful in that clear, pure air
and has many points of pleasure, such as the glorious sunrises and
sunsets which are often observed. It is beautiful also to watch the
stars from this mountain, which is the highest one for many miles
around. For recreation the observers are accustomed to throw the
horseshoe, play the graphophone, read books, and to play games,
but nearly all of the time from sunrise to bedtime is devoted entirely
to the work.

PRESENT STATUS OF THE INVESTIGATION.

Thus, thanks to Mr. Roebling’s generosity, we have now two first-
rate solar-radiation observing stations, about 4,000 miles apart, which
by rigid economy it is hoped to be able to keep in operation continu-
ously for some years to come. In this way a strong basis of solar
observations will, it is hoped, be maintained which may be compared
hereafter with weather conditions in all parts of the world and serve
to establish whether or not measurements of solar variability are
essential elements for weather forecasting. Meanwhile, the Gov-
ernment weather services of Argentina and Brazil have become so
fully impressed with the value of these data that they employ our
telegraphic daily reports from Chile regularly in their official fore-

.

a

SUN’S HEAT—ABBOT. 163

casts. Our own weather bureau is investigating the relations of the
more complicated weather conditions of the United States to the radia-
tion of the sun, and with results which tend to raise the hope that
here also the solar-radiation values will be of interest and importance
in weather forecasting. Thus the outlook indicates that Doctor Lang-
ley’s prophetic hope may be to a considerable extent fulfilled, and
that knowledge of the sun may help to foretell the climatic conditions
of the world.

If it should prove, from the results now being obtained in the New
World, that this element is a valuable one for forecasting, it must fol-
low that additional solar-radiation stations will be established in the
most cloudless regions of the Old World to joinin securing strong daily
values of the intensity of the solar beam. Such stations might prop-
erly be located in Egypt, South Africa, Australia, or India, or all of
these regions. Not less than four solar-radiation stations, all oper-
ating under a common procedure and homogeneous in all respects,
would be necessary for the satisfactory observation of the sun on every
day of the year.

The cost of such observatories is not large. Two are already estab-
lished. Four others could be established and continued by an annual
outlay of $50,000. The cost of the war for a single hour of time,
if it could have been diverted to this fundamental research, would
haye carried it on forever,
‘ehiahsntottdy alge ‘bho B10 sik shana

Toe a Site Sanit E egg
Mae Mi td Laibala ita eee 1 ey ik
28 Seago He eabid ute ‘tte {foe iat alld dean 1.

( epssqeet fui anbatohonitod bida“oibhWob ae
i Mes Ho te lh to noHhitvanito to Hi i Aish Yaak 45%
Hin ae

Bia tT, ty ‘ é

bs ecknaiid ser: aaaan daira Ae ibeO!

Tisch etbt yd hevaiinos bas bodeildases sd hlsoo etoilto se b
batts 16 Aiod stgaia hot Yew BAF! 405! HHT” Pepiaviert

Pebtisdw’ idbitindn hehehe a ity of ‘pahavib “Hoge” ai? b 1b
yoni. Saud to 92 boPtisg)

Py FULT ANE Y) it

eh ss the c ys
deat | Thea lite is verv hontai 2 TR A
oh yes, Ua mlocious cH

ti aM overhn taek fy bat’s ey

UE ae
ae
» Weta ee

‘ wa ne
apeh Oth. Tat ae ae

(5 hee tes: ecb

Li AR! EOE RRR RL:

CLises fio: Paya CATR aS tie

Beye SIN i ate a Le a

Lie hg 2 Rte

y A oie Lee's detente 4-9 MIB WE TI,
WOO rAilee prt; “hie

rr “e F
HEMET, MORO AKAD

BMA OLN: cookin

"te BL Ag ‘hypetat at stale i
pride fhayaiee ey bE 54 aae i iA oN very bes CLINT) PE ES
ATI TIE AT) MLE TU ie eve ees werd iit, ee

Coty Wate: Crete
bheey tage rt ep Wie Py rder DANE N NT Ene at ey ane VAT

; roxocastinay: Maia! (hte roe

vhiga vad Tidak bart eae

Tohen' eraqate ¢ hay OLE 4

¢ My aod ”
Chile ene Tatiiede’ gethweat

Keith SHER | ay AY

Smithsonian Report, 1920—Abbot. PLATE |.

SOUTHERN PORTION OF THE MOON AT LAST QUARTER.

Photograph made at the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory with the Hooker Telescope.

THE HABITABILITY OF VENUS, MARS, AND
OTHER WORLDS.

By C. G. ABBOT.

[With 3 plates. ]

In considering the probability of the existence of intelligent life
on other heavenly bodies than the earth, it will be convenient to
take up these heavenly bodies in several groups, dealing first with
those in which conditions are so very different from ours that the

existence of life seems impossible.

THE MOON, THE SUN, AND THE OUTER PLANETS,

The moon is our nearest neighbor and coplanet with ourselves.
Astronomers usually call the earth the planet and the moon merely
a satellite. Except for unequal size one is as much a planet and

‘as much a Satellite as the other. They revolve together around the

sun, and rotate together about their common center of gravity. But
as the earth is of 4 times as great diameter as the moon, and is 81
times as massive, it is the controlling member of the partnership,
and swings the moon as the big boy at school does the little one in
the game of “crack the whip.”

At 240,000 miles distance the moon is beautifully seen and studied
by the aid of a telescope. It is a waterless, airless, mountainous
desert. There is no probability whatever that intelligent beings can
be there.

What of our great benefactor, the sun? No living thing, scarcely
even the hardiest chemical compound, can exist there because of the
intense heat. On earth the hottest thing is the electric arc, which
not only melts but turns into gas every substance. The spectroscope
and the heat-measuring appliances show that the solar temperature
is nearly twice as great as that of the are. Hydrogen would not
burn in pure oxygen on the sun, but water, if it could ever reach
there as steam, would be instantly separated into these component
pases.

Circling the sun, beyond the orbit of the earth, lie five great
planets: Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Within the

earth’s orbit there are two; Venus and Mercury.
165
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

The planets naturally divide into two equal groups whose members
differ significantly in density. The four inner planets, Mercury,
Venus, Earth, and Mars are not very unlike in this respect. Of the
four outer planets, Jupiter, the most dense, is only 1.3 times as heavy
as an equal volume of water. We have hardly any earth, stones, or
metals so light as this. It is most probable that these four planets
are mainly gaseous. For this reason alone it would be unreasonable
to think of them as proper abodes of intelligent life, but we have
also to consider the temperature conditions which probably prevail
in the outer planets.

The following table gives the principal data on which tempera-
ture estimates (given in the last column) have been based with re-
gard to the moon and to all the planets. The estimated temperature
of the sun depends upon the distribution of its radiant energy in
the spectrum; that of the earth is well known from numerous ther-
mometric measurements. The temperature of the sunlit surface of
the full moon, which has been investigated by Langley, Very, and
others, appears to be probably between freezing and boiling points
of water. The dark side appears to be exceedingly cold. The esti-
mates here given of the temperatures of the other planets are based
upon the approximately known temperatures of the earth and moon
with consideration of the relative reflecting powers and solar dis-
tances of the planets as compared with those of the earth and moon.
The values given, although rough, are yet sufficiently indicative of
the conditions in the other planets.

Solar

‘ ‘ : : Reflect- | Probable
Diame- | Density, Mass, Gravity, | distance = Z

ter. |water=1.) earth=1. |carth=1. Gahien Day. | Year. é far. 2 hid a

Miles. Hours.| Duys. |Per cent.) ° F.

ah ede We 5, 000 1. 4 /332, 800. 276i) | serene OC AE ic TN gh +12, 000
Mercury..... 3, 030 4.4? - 045 2? 36. 0 (?) 88 7{ + 450
VENUS). 2c cee 7, 700 4,9 . 816 8 67.2 (?) 225 59} + 68
Barth sccee 7, 918 5.5 1. 000 1.0 92.9} 24.0 365 44) + 59
Moone .eou.0% 2, 163 3.4 . 012 16 92.9 | 656.0 365 + 50
Mars 2 pno. os 4, 230 3.9 - 107 4 141.5 | 24.6 687 15) — 60
Jupiter... 22- 86, 500 1.3 317.0 2.6 483.3 9.8 4,332 — 270
Saturn... 70, 000 7 94,8 1.2 886.0} 10.3 10, 759 63} — 330
Uranus.....- 31, 500 1.2 14.6 9 1, 781.9 (?) 30, 687 63 — 380
Neptune.....} 34, 800 isal 17.0 9 2,791.6 (?) 60, 181 73} — 400

From this we see that if the sun is the sole source of heat and
light, the supposed inhabitants of Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, and
Jupiter would probably be much more unfavorably situated than the
Eskimo in their climatic conditions. The mass and volume of the
planets is not such as to warrant us in the belief that they can still
have, at their immense ages, sources of heat within themselves which
can supplement to a useful degree the sun as the supporter of life,
unless possibly such might be the case with Jupiter. On the whole,

VENUS, MARS, AND OTHER WORLDS—ABBOT. 167

the probabilities of intelligent life on the four outer planets can not
be regarded as considerable.

WORLDS AMONG THE STARS.

As is well known, the stars are but suns and the sun our nearest
star. Hence the tremendous temperature which prevails in the sun
and prevents us from supposing for a moment that the sun is capable
of being an abode for intelligent life, must be regarded as an equally
effectual bar against the existence of life upon the other stars. But,
just as the sun has a train of planets and satellites which revolve
about it, one might assume that the other stars should be similarly
attended. To be sure no such planetary trains have been reported
by telescopic or spectroscopic observers, but that would not be ex-
pected. The distances of the stars are so immense and the disparity
of brightness between a body, like the sun, and a body shining by
reflected sunlight, like one of the planets, is so enormous that it is
not to be supposed that a single one of these supposed starry worlds
would be visible even if they existed in almost countless numbers. In
illustration of the enormous difference in light-giving powers, it
may be remarked that at equal distances the sun would be roughly
1,500,000,000 times as bright as the earth.

The spectroscope, as readers well know, is sometimes capable of
indicating the presence of bodies that are invisible to the telescope.
Thus there are large numbers of binary and multiple stars in which
the components of the system are so close together that the telescope
can not see them separately but which, on account of their rotation
about a common center, give slight displacements of the spectrum
lines owing to motions in their orbits toward and from us in line of
sight. It is not even necessary that the component bodies should
both be light giving. It has been actually observed in the case of
binary stars whose orbits lie in such a plane that the two bodies
alternately eclipse one another, that one may be light giving and
the other quite dark, yet in the revolution of the light-giving com-
ponent around the center its spectrum lines are shifted, and of course
a variation in its light is caused when it is partly eclipsed by its com-
panion. Without even partially eclipsing the companion, one of these
dark bodies may yet, by its gravitational attraction, cause such a
rapid motion in the bright star as to indicate its presence by the
shifting of spectrum lines. This, however, can only be detected when
the dark companion is large enough to produce an orbit of some con-
siderable dimensions.

In the case of our planetary system, the attractions of any and all
of the planets are not sufficient to displace the sun appreciably to such
spectroscopic observations. Such would probably be the case with
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

other stars. It seems certain that an immense number of dark plane-
tary bodies may exist as companions to the stars without our being
able to detect their existence by the powerful spectroscopic and tele-
scopic means at our command. Indeed we can not conceive that any
increases of our observational apparatus will ever enable us to de-
cide whether or not such bodies exist. The probability is that they
do so, and in such immense numbers that among them there may well
be many suitable for abodes of intelligent life. This subject, of
course, opens the door wide for speculation, but this field les so far
from the realms of certainty that it is not my purpose to enter upon
it here.

ARE MERCURY, VENUS, AND MARS HABITABLE?

To us the question has narrowed itself to this: Are Mercury, Venus,

and Mars fit for habitation? The answer requires us to consider
for a moment the most important requisites of life. Animals live
on plants. Plants require warmth, light, water, carbon compounds,
and certain inorganic salts. But are we justified in supposing that
in a climate where water would be changed to ice or steam, life would
be impossible? It is difficult to conceive that water in the rigid form
of ice could serve a living being as a prime part of his make-up.
Where would be the flexibility of motion required to circulate the
food and carry on the functions of the body? It may, indeed, be
urged that other liquids might take the place of water. But the
properties of water are unique. An almost universal solvent, its
solutions possess electrical and chemical properties so far more won-
derful than any others that comparison is impossible.
* Aside from water, one must insist on the element carbon as indis-
pensable to life. The spectroscope teaches us that all the heavenly
bodies are of the same chemical elements. Our earth has samples of
all of the star-building materials and we know well their combina-
tions. Among all these elements there is none that has the versatility
of carbon. Its compounds are innumerable and of the most bewilder-
ing complexity. It only can be the basis of life, which seems to
require the most complex of the mysterious intricacies of carbon
chain building for its simplest creatures. ‘These complex life sub-
stances, however, are broken down by temperatures like that of
steam, and are mostly rigid at temperatures like that of ice. Within
this temperature range, from freezing to boiling, we must believe
lies all the theater of animal and vegetable life.

Light, too, is necessary, but its requirements are more elastic.
Plants grow and animals thrive where the light is a thousandfold
less than daylight, and the full sun is far from being too strong for
most of them. All three of our planets would satisfy the require-

HL LV NAXVL SYVIA) LANW1d AHL 40 SHdVYDOLOHd

*AHOLVAUSSEO YV1OS NOSTIM LNNOW 4

6G ALV1d "JOQqGYV—'0Z6l ‘Hodey uB!UuOSY}WS

*AYOLVAYSSEO
YVv10S NOSTIM LNNOW SHL NI HdVYDOLOSdS NIVYDASSVD HLIM 3d09SSISL DNILOATSSY HON|-ALXIS

gascene 2

'§ aLlvid "JOQGV—0Z6l ‘Hodey uBIUOSYWS
VENUS, MARS, AND OTHER WORLDS—ABBOT. 169

ments as to light. We must test their qualifications as to tempera-
ture and moisture. In so doing we ought not to lose sight of the
influence of moisture on temperature. The water vapor and clouds
in the earth’s atmosphere seem to be responsible for maintaining our
average temperature fully 50° F. above what it would be if, notwith-
standing their absence, the sun shone no more intensely on the earth
than now. Besides this, the range of temperature between day and
night, shade and sunlight, would be enormously increased if the
moist atmospheric blanket were removed, as all who live in deserts
know.

Referring to the table given above, we see that, considering the
distances and reflecting powers of the planets, the sunlight available
on Mercury, Venus, and Mars is, respectively, of 12, 1.1, and 0.6
times the intensity of that which is available to us upon the earth.
As shown by the reflecting power, Mercury, like the moon, is an
airless, waterless waste, and being, besides, baked by a twelvefold
torrid heat, there can be no thought of life upon Mercury.

Many popular writers have claimed great things for Mars as the
abode of life. I can not accept this view. Director Campbell, of
Lick Observatory, in two widely different and extremely beautiful
and thorough researches, satisfied astronomers that the water vapor
in the Martian atmosphere is less than one-fifth of the trifling quan-
tity which prevails over Mount Hamilton in the coldest clear nights
of winter. Thus, without the earth’s moist atmospheric blanket, and
with only 0.6 the solar heat, the average Martian temperature should
be 60° below zero Fahrenheit. Telescopic observations reveal no
clouds on Mars. Its most talked-of features are dimly visible mark-
ings called fancifully by some “canals,” but by observers like Bar-
nard, Hale, and others, studying under ideal conditions, regarded
merely as irregularities in the planet’s contour and soil composition,
which at the immense distance are on the limit of telescopic vision
and take on one shape or another according to the observer’s inter-
pretation.

In the Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
April, 1918, Doctor Campbell has confronted in parallel columns the
descriptions, sketches, and conclusions of the two most prominent ob-
servers of Martian “canals.” There is apparent such widely con-
tradictory testimony as would be expected of two persons who should
try to describe the landscape of the moon without ever having used
a telescope. In view of the immense distance, and the equal inad-
equacy of the telescope for Mars and the naked eye for the moon, it
is probable that both of these Martian accounts are as remote as
theirs would be from the truth. All observers, of course, are agreed.
as to the existence of markings and shadings of color on Mars, but to
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

suppose that we see there the engineering works of intelligent beings
is merely fanciful. As for the polar caps which form and melt with
the Martian seasons, the best opinion is in doubt whether these may
be thin deposits of hoar frost from the traces of water vapor in the
atmosphere, or frozen carbonic acid gas, which, in view of the low
temperature of Mars, is perhaps as probable.

Mercury being surely uninhabitable, and Mars most certainly in-
hospitable, there remains only Venus among the planets as a prob-
able abode for intelligent life. Here we must be struck by the favor-

able prospect. <A twin planet to the earth in size and mass, its high |

reflecting power seems to show that Venus is largely covered by
clouds indicative of abundant moisture; probably at almost identical
temperatures to ours, our sister planet appears lacking in no essential
to habitability.

Some writers have said that owing to the supposed period of rota-
tion of Venus on its own axis being equal to its period of revolution
around the sun, just as occurs in the case of the moon with respect to
the earth, Venus must always present the same side toward the sun,
and that therefore the one-half would be in extremest cold and the
other in a most blistering heat. Dr. A. Graham Bell has pointed out
to me in conversation, however, that this view of things is most
improbable. The reflecting power of Venus has been carefully
determined and, as given above, lies in the neighborhood of 60
per cent. So high a reflecting power demands apparently the exist-
ence of clouds, and these clouds can hardly be of any other substance
than water. If it were a fact that the rotation period of Venus is
equal to its period of revolution around the sun, all of the water
would be distilled from the hot side to the cold side and these clouds
would disappear. These evidences alone seem to me to be sufficient to
overcome the observational evidence which indicates the equality of
periods of rotation and revolution. That is dependent on spectro-
scopic observations to some extent, and these are not competent to in-
dicate more than that the period of revolution is large as compared
with our day. They are not accurate enough to show that the period
is 225 days, equal to the year of Venus, but it may be anything above
10 of our days, as far as the present spectroscopic observations would
be accurate enough to indicate. As for the reported observation of
markings upon the planet which were said to rotate in 225 days, this
observation can only be regarded with the greatest doubtfulness.

It is only because the clouds have always prevented a telescopic
view of its surface that Venus excites no popular interest like that
aroused by Mars. If it should be reserved for the early future to
exchange intelligence with our nearest planetary neighbor after the

eS sa nat ee

VENUS, MARS, AND OTHER WORLDS—ABBOT. rth

moon, the popular apathy would naturally be changed to the most
lively interest.

It will be recalled that a good deal of discussion has appeared in
the press as to the possibility of communicating with other planets
by wireless telegraphy and even accompanied by the suggestion that
we are already receiving wireless signals from intelligent beings
outside of the earth which may in time be interpretable. The best
information seems to be that the wireless indications referred to are
merely disturbances introduced by solar or terrestrial causes as yet
imperfectly understood and not the work of intelligent beings trying
to communicate with us. At the same time, computations have been
published which seem to make it within the limits of possibility that
wireless communications might be exchanged with the nearer planets,
if it were worth while to do so, although at immense cost.

Proposals have also been made from time to time of communi-
cating by searchlights or mirrors in the ordinary methods of helio-
graphing. To me, these latter proposals seem altogether too san-
guine. Certainly for a planet like Venus which is almost wholly
covered by fogs the chance of a beam of sunlight or a searchlight
beam penetrating to the surface where it could be observed by the
supposed inhabitants, notwithstanding the glare of their own atmos-
phere and the glare of the whole relatively immense surface of the
earth as compared to the surface of the reflectors or searchlights
employed, is quite beyond probability. If it were a case of com-
municating with the moon, there would be little doubt but that it
could be accomplished. If it were Mars or one of the still more
distant planets that was being considered, there seems to be not the
slightest probability of success by the use of lights. So far as we
know, then, any communications which can be made with other in-
telligent beings, if there are any, must be by means of wireless teleg-
raphy or some as yet undiscovered means of communication.

If we could talk freely with intelligences existing on another
world, having a history, social customs and laws, and religious faiths
developed absolutely independently from those of this world our
conversation would be not only one of surpassing interest to science
and the humanities, but what a guide it might prove to statesmen and
sociologists !

1As this paper is in press private advices come that St. John’s spectroscopic studies
of Venus throw doubt on the existence of water vapor there. If this is confirmed the
habitability of Venus would seem highly improbable. It is difficult, however, to under-

stand the high reflecting power of the planet if clouds are absent, and we must await
further information.
GIANT SUNS.’

By Pror. H. H. Turner, D: Se,’ D.C: ., F. Rv S., F. R. ALS.

We have all been fascinated by giants, from the times we read of
Jack the Giant Killer in our childhood to those more recent when we
read of the exploits of Lieutenant Warneford and his successors in
their fights with the giant Zeppelins.

I make no apology for shortening my title a little from what
astronomers might expect. I might have chosen “ Giant and Dwarf
Stars,” but stars are suns, as we shall see presently, and though I
shall include “ dwarf” suns, the real dwarfs of science are the tiny
atoms at the other end of the scale of investigation—or rather, the
electrons into which they have been broken up.

How shall we gauge the size of a star to see whether it is a giant?
We must know two things: First of all, the apparent size of its disk,
and secondly, its distance. In the old days it was thought that the
size of the sun could be estimated from one of these only—from the
size of the disk. Lucretius,? following Epicurus, believed that the
sun was a small body. He arrived at this conclusion by neglecting
entirely the consideration of the distance and judging by the appear-
ance to our senses.

Now, without attempting to decide whether the sun is the size of
a soup-plate, or of a threepenny-bit, or what is the size that it seems
to be, we may remark that it seems to be about the same size as the
moon, and that by Lucretius’ principle the sun and moon ought to be
of the same actual size. However, we now know that the sun is 400
times bigger than the moon, because its distance is 400 times greater.
We have measured the distance of the sun and found it to be nearly
100,000,000 miles, and we have measured that of the moon and found
it to be nearly one-fourth million; and since the disks appear of about

1 Reprinted by permission from Proceedings of the Weekly Evening Meeting of the Royal
Institution of Great Britain, Jan. 31, 1919,
2“‘Nee nimio solis major rota nee minor ardor
Esse potest, nostris quam sensibus esse videtur.”’
Lucret., De Nat. Rer., v. 564-5.

173
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

the same angular size (viz, about one one-hundredth part of the
distance in each case), we know that the sun must be about 1,000,000
miles in diameter and the moon only about 2,500 miles, using round
numbers throughout for simplicity.

Thus the sun is a veritable giant compared with the moon, in spite
of the similar apparent size of the disks; but this we discover only
when we have measured the distances.

The sun and moon present to us large disks which we can study
in detail, and the study of the disk of the sun by means of the spectro-
heliograph has had new triumphs which, owing to the war, have
not yet been seen in this room, so that I may be pardoned for exhibit-
ing one.

But when we come to the stars there is no disk. If one seems to
see disks for these objects, the appearance comes through the im-
perfections of the telescope. Hence it would seem to be superfluous
to inquire about their distance. When Mark Twain had been roughly
handled at Niagara Falls, and the doctor reported that only 16 of his
wounds were mortal, he said “he did not care about the others.” In
the same way we might argue that since the stars have no appreciable
disks we need not care about their distances.

That, however, was not the attitude of men of science. They went
to work to measure their distances, and though the difficulties were
heart breaking they were attacked and overcome. Here is a table
' showing a sensible fraction of the life work of an eminent Scotsman,

Sir David Gill, observing at the Cape of Good Hope. It includes the

famous « Centauri, the first star to have its distance measured at all,
which again was by a Scotsman, Henderson, also observing at the
Cape of Good Hope.

Gill’s parallaxes of bright stars,

_ | Distancein Distancein
Star. Parallax. light-years. Star. Parallax. |); ght-years.
” wr
Sips Sa G Rte ANE 0.37 g A Contauristi2.s. fee 0.03 100
CaO piisy ee ice weitere (2) GICTUICIS ere ee aa 05 64
SOE TT TCU Ne 00 (2) Spicach, AMARA | 00 (?)
COMuAnln tee coaaccle s 75 4 a Pise: Aust: oe 13 25
a Uridanti.: file Aiy. 5! 04 80 £ Crucis. tii. eee es | 00 (7)
|

Sir David Gill was accustomed to describe the difficulties of de-
termining that distance by saying that it was like trying to measure
the size of a 3-penny bit 2 miles off; and we remember his delight
when his chairman, on one occasion asked, “ Who but a Scotsman
would care about a 3-penny bit 2 miles away ?”

But you will see that this star is the nearest and therefore easiest
of all; while some even of these brightest stars gave no result even

GIANT SUNS—TURNER. 175

to a patient Scotsman. Those that are measurable show that they
are so far off that light takes years to come to us from them—from
some four years; from others hundreds of years; from those with no
measurable result, thousands of years at least.

Thus we began to obtain a little knowledge of the distance of the
stars. The method used for these measurements was the usual
method of parallax, which we may illustrate by two searchlights
trained on the same Zeppelin. Knowing their distance apart and the
angles at which they are sending their beams of light, those working
the apparatus can draw the triangle to scale and thus tell the height
of the Zeppelin.

Now, replace the two searchlights by two telescopes—one on one
side of the earth’s orbit round the sun, and the other on the other
side; they can not be there simultaneously, but the star will wait six
months for us to move round or even longer. The angle at the
Zeppelin becomes, however, woefully small as we suppose it to mount
to the stars. It is twice the angle which seems to separate earth and
sun as seen from the Zeppelin, and it is this angle which is repre-
sented by the diameter of “a 3-penny bit 2 miles away.” From the
distance of the nearest star the sun and earth might appear as a close
double star, of which there are many examples in the heavens, though
our little earth would probably be too faint to be seen, even from the
nearest star spectator.

There would be no such difficulty in seeing the sun, but since his
diameter is only one one-hundredth part of the distance between
earth and sun, which has itself shrunk to almost imperceptible di-
mensions, it is easy to realize that the disk of the sun would have
disappeared completely, as does any disk of the stars to us, even with
our largest telescopes.

Since we have imagined ourselves to mount far upward to «@
Centauri, whence the sun and earth would represent a close double
star, let us retain the conception a moment longer in order to note a
useful fact. Watching long enough we should see the pair moving
across the heavens, while at the same time the earth would revolve
round its mighty companion. The sun would proceed therefore very
much more steadily than the earth. The sun’s path is nearly
straight, while the earth takes a wavy path, or more correctly a cork-
_ screw path. If the masses of the two bodies were more nearly equal,
the two paths would be more nearly alike, and both wavy.

By observing such movements (for we can observe the movements
of stars) we infer whether one component of a double star is more
massive than the other or whether they are nearly equal; and it is
found that there is never any very great disparity in mass between
the components. Their masses are closely similar, like those of peb-
176 ‘ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

bles on a beach. But this tells us nothing about the sizes of the
minute disks. Have I gone too far perhaps in saying there is no
disk visible in any star? Nebule do show disks, and though they are
nebule and not stars they may become stars. The new secrets
wrested from the stars have chiefly come, not from the increase in
size of telescopes, but from the new appliances attached to them, such
as the photographic plate, the spectroscope, and by this time many
others. The lines in the spectra of stars tell us what the stars are
made of, how they may be classified accordingly, how fast they are
moving, how bright they really are (this is an amazing recent dis-
covery), and by inference how far away, and may yet have other
surprises in store. For the moment we are chiefly concerned with
the classification. The Harvard system gives us a number of classes
denoted by the capital lettersO BA FGKMRN. The fact that
the order is not quite the same as that of the alphabet represents a
revision of early ideas, chiefly due to the gradual accumulation of
intermediate types, which make a nearly continuous series.

Now a series of stars in order is probably a representation of
growth; just as the growth of trees may be illustrated by selecting
various stages from the same wood, an illustration originally given
by Sir W. Herschel. But we have seen a tree grow, and we know
independently that it grows up from the acorn through the sapling
to the giant oak; while we have not had time to see a star grow and
were thus in ignorance whether the changes are from B toward M
or from M toward B, though by this time we have an immense
number classified. The classification has been largely the work of an
American lady, Miss Cannon. I am told that there is a man who
can deftly straighten rifle barrels—he gives a glance along the barrel,
a tap with a hammer, and lo! it is straight. His value is recognized
at some £15 a week. Miss Cannon has the same deftness with
spectra—but I fear that (to judge from the report of the Board of
Visitors of Harvard Observatory) her great skill is not so appro-
priately rewarded.

Now, it is obviously important to find out, if we can, which is
the direction of a star’s growth, and we seemed to have an important
clue when the spectral classification was connected with the tempera-
ture of a star, or rather its surface temperature, which is all we can
get at. The outside is the coolest, just as the edges of a plate of
porridge are the coolest, as most of us have learned by early and
rather painful experience. And yet the outside of a star is hot
enough. The temperature is again estimated from the spectrum,
though this time not from the lines but from the relative intensities
of its parts, and the O B A end is undoubtedly hotter than the other.
We may give as illustrations 15,000° for B, 5,000° for G, and

GIANT SUNS—TURNER. 177

2,500° for M. Does this settle the matter?’ We know that there
is a general tendency for all bodies to cool which points to the
direction O B—M N as the order of events; but it was also
known that under the stress of gravitation a star might rise in
temperature, in which case the growth might be the other way. Still
the former alternative commended itself more generally; and when
Prof. W. W. Campbell found that the velocities of stars (also deter-
mined with the spectroscope) were smaller for type B than for type
M, the facts were interpreted to mean that a star moved more quickly
with advancing age (because M stars were older than B). The idea
that the life of a star was spent in passage down the series O B—M
was indeed pretty firmly established at the time when the revolution
came.

The revolution began with the advent of a young American
research student, Mr. H. N. Russell, to Cambridge in 1904-6. It is
to the credit of Mr. A. R. Hinks that he made so much of this
brilliant young student, setting him on the way to determine the
distances of a number of stars by photography with the instruments
which he (Mr. Hinks) has spent much time and labor in perfecting.
This was the first element in his success. The next was that on his
return to America he got from the Harvard Observatory—that store-
house of astronomical facts—the spectral types of his stars; and
combining these with the measures of distance (which told him the
intrinsic brightness or luminosities of the stars) he found that stars
of the same spectral type M fell into two distinct groups separated
by an interval. There were very bright stars, now called giants, and
there were very faint ones, now called dwarfs, but none of inter-
mediate stature.

The same was true in minor degree for stars of other types, but
as the B end of the series was approached the gap gradually dis-
appeared much in the way that the gap between the legs of a step-
ladder gradually lessens as we approach the top. Indeed Russell’s
diagram of his results is very like a stepladder, the top representing
the B stars followed by A, F, G, K, M, in descending order, and the
gap between the two legs of the ladder representing the difference
in luminosity, as the intrinsic brightness of a star has come to be
called. Russell brought this diagram with him when he came to
attend the meeting of the Solar Union at Bonn in 1913. It is sad
to remember the occasion, for the most friendly relations seemed to
have been permanently established between the various nations
assembled. We remember with especial regret the trip on a great
steamer on the Rhine which ended the meeting, and, alas! was the
end also of our hopes of a permanent friendliness, for before the
year had passed the great war had shattered them all. It was on

42803 °—22 12

178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920,

his return from Germany through England that Russell showed us
his stepladder diagram at the Royal Astronomical Society, and
expounded his views on the evolution of a star, which were that
its life began at the foot of the upright leg, the ascent of which
signified that the star was growing continually hotter and changing
its spectral type meantime from M upward toward B, that at B
the increase of temperature was arrested and after a time cooling
began, carrying the star down the inclined leg of the ladder through
changes in the reverse order. The only weak spot in the evidence
arose from the small number of observations. To determine the
actual or intrinsic brightness of a star we must know, its distance,
and there are not many stars of which the distance can be easily
measured, and though Russell had himself increased the number, the
total was still not large. To get further evidence he had recourse to
indirect estimates of distance, especially those of clusters of stars.
We have lately become more and more aware of the association of
stars in clusters represented by their common movement, somewhat
in the way that the movements of a flock of birds migrating from
one place to another are associated. If we may accept this evidence,
and if we can determine the distance of any one star in the cluster,
the distances of the others can be inferred. In Russell’s skilful hands
this evidence was collated and found to strengthen his conclusions.
Let us pause here for a moment to reflect on the inherent proba-
bility of the suggestion. Is it not after all much more likely that a
star first rises in temperature and then falls rather than that it
should be permanently either rising or falling? Now that the idea
‘has been put forward, and that there seems to be not only good
evidence of this change in the sky, but, as we shall presently see, also
good theoretical reason for it, we wonder why the idea was not the
most natural one to adopt from the first. But curiously enough it
was not the one adopted by astronomers, with the notable excep-
tion of Sir Norman Lockyer, who made the same suggestion as
Russell’s (though on different grounds) many years before. May I
give a crude illustration from our ordinary life of the mistake that
was made by many of us? It is as though we had taken the amount
of hair as an indication of the age of a man. In very early life
the amount of hair is small, it increases with age up to a certain
point, but then it begins to decrease until a very old man often has
as little hair as a new-born baby. We could give Shakespeare’s
seven ages of man according to the amount of hair in the same
diagrammatic form as Russell’s stepladder, beginning with the baby
at the foot of the upright leg, ascending to the man in the middle life
with maximum hair (corresponding to the maximum temperature),
and placing the greater ages down the inclined leg till we arrive

|
}
4
i
|
{

GIANT SUNS—TURNER. 179

again at a bald pate. Shakespeare reminds us with his phrase about
the voice “ turning again toward a childish treble” that not only the
hair but the voice goes through changes which show a reversal after
middle life. We were practically confusing the baby stars with the
old-man stars until Russell called our attention to the fact; and now
it seems quite easy to make the distinction. But there was some hesi-
tation before the new views were accepted at all, chiefly on account of
the lack of sufficient measures of distance, which left room for doubt.
Recently the evidence has been reinforced in a remarkable way by a
totally new and unexpected method for inferring the distances of
stars, due to Mr. W. S. Adams, of the Mount Wilson Observatory in
California. His discovery is that if we have two stars, one of which
is very bright intrinsically and the other faint, but both of the
same spectral type, we can find two lines of the spectra which have
different relative intensities: let us call them A and B. In the
bright star A is more intense than B, in the faint star B will be
more intense than A. Now observe that this difference will persist
however far we may remove the stars from us. By altering the
distances we may make the brighter star appear the fainter, but we
can pierce its disguise by noting simply that the line A in the
spectra is the more intense, so that if the star appears faint we see at
once that this must be due to its greater distance. In fact we can
infer the distance from the relative intensities of the lines A and B,
so that Adams has really given us a new method of inferring dis-
tances. The new method has the further advantage of requiring far
less labor than the old method of parallax; in fact, when once the
spectrum has been photographed the further labor required is quite
small, so that by this time Adams has been able to give us the
luminosity of hundreds of new stars, and by this overwhelming
evidence confirms Russell’s results derived from merely a few. In
reply to a request he has sent me specially for this lecture the
following table of results, and I am sure you will appreciate his kind-
ness.

[In the lecture the results were represented diagrammatically ;
here Adams’s actual figures are reproduced on the next page.
To see the “stepladder” hold the table sideways, so that the column
' of absolute magnitudes is at the bottom. The upright leg is then
represented by the two rules across the page. It will be seen that
the majority of intrinsically luminous stars are contained between
these lines. The sloping leg is easily seen from the le of the figures.
That there are very few faint stars of class M does not mean that
there are few in the heavens, but that they are the most difficult to
observe from their faintness. |
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

W. S. Adams’s results up to Nov. 8, 1918.

Abs. Mag.) Meto Md.| Ky to K».| Go to K3.| Fo to Gg. |} Az to Fs.

— 2.8 rie ae i EER, AP ge 1
—~ 23 ig? EET STII FRI BS es, 2
Baie apna LSE ae Pe 2 3
Shes 1 4 i 3 2
— 0.8 5 34 12 7 5
= 13 rs 36 33 33 7
+ 0.2 35 11 70 44 3
RE og Cy ieee ae 72 34 12
1D ey PE ES 22 21 13
Lay TEEN ARET SIE 12 8 5
Was: ere 1 a tal 7 2 1B
A eh eRe SL el eg 3 5 15
EOS pl ara ae ie pean =e 4 2 17
OV a Gatien uae 8 1 7 FOE Ld
Ee ke ee) OP eae P 3 u 35
Berghe RR: SE TN 3 28 22
RU Rie. i 4 21 18
HS 27h Deas sat 0 8 a Mes
Be Bad oak aR 3 38 Sot Lae 3 8
BS gy TAN | ret 15 qiiopal oy
ye Weed eae 13 Senha Me Hie toe
Te ES 5 gen Aye E32 Gt ae”
a S90 1h. Sh BERLE SAREE, Oe po
Les aieny | har Seta 1 dail ele LANA
2 CRN Meee CORE LIOGR - gene femtene a 1h aan
49.7 3 a eee a ME SE
+10,2 ee eR eon ee lig Re nc eitna Nee
+10.7 tee aa Dae ah Sal bila eat emicoe Sau)iosice 52 ose
411.2 AE, Fe ee Plage ay ag gaa Wie at aie
SF Or el Meese REA Pach AM SACOG ey
AIDUD ale ce cdl, et Mee a tl ets en eer ee
BIS TN POA OSE SE NE SE cd ae SEMEL
413.2 1 og Be |e ki: aah leype Eat eco Bbr ne

Total.| 99 145 | 321 290 193

|

In addition to this confirmation by new observations we have had
an independent confirmation by the brilliant theoretical work of
Professor Eddington, who has attacked the problem of the life of a
star mathematically. He supposed a mass of gas first of all to be
simply under the action of its own gravity. It will consequently
contract, and owing to the contraction will rise in temperature; but
Professor Eddington soon found that this simple hypothesis would
not answer—it led him to impossible results. Clearly something else
besides gravity must be at work, and he was driven to the further
hypothesis that the radiation-pressure inside the star played an
important part in its history. Radiation-pressure (or if we like
to call it so, light-pressure) is what makes the tail of a comet. Asa
comet approaches the sun it begins to feel the effects of the fierce
light, which is known to be able to drive away very small particles
from the head of the comet, much as we can blow away chaff from
wheat. In consequence of this action the small dust-like particles
which may exist in the head are believed to be driven outward to
form the tail. But this force is not merely in existence on the
outside of the sun; it permeates its whole body. A. particle inside
the sun is of course receiving radiation-pressure from all its sur-
roundings, but the pressure will naturally be greater on the hotter

GIANT SUNS—TURNER. 181

side, i. e., on the side of the sun’s center. Working out the problem
afresh with the addition of this new factor Professor Eddington has
obtained results which agree satisfactorily with the observed effects,
and indeed the closeness of the agreement is startling. He is able to
utilize the fact noticed earlier in the lecture, that the masses of the
stars are not very different, so that it is easy to take three repre-
sentative cases—let us say one in which the mass is equal to that of
our sun, one in which it is five times greater, and one in which it is
five times less—and by following these three cases in detail he can
show the distinctive features of different stars. Briefly, the step-
ladder is highest for the star of greatest mass, which may get hotter
and hotter until it reaches type O; a star of intermediate mass like
our sun is arrested at a lower height and may not reach higher than
type F, or at best A, before it begins to fall down the inclined leg,
while a star of small mass may reach no higher than type K at any
time. The golfers in the audience may be reminded of their handi-
caps. Those who are destined to be scratch players (probably, how-
ever, not because of their great mass) improve very rapidly until
they reach the highest pitch of excellence, and it may even be only
in old age that they begin to travel downward; but then there are
others of long handicap who, although they may improve a little at
first, never get beyond the fatal 18 at their best and on whom
declining years soon begin to leave their mark.

One of the most remarkable suggestions of Professor Eddington’s
work gives a reason for the close resemblance in mass of the stars.
There is a certain mass for which the radiation-pressure pressing
outward nearly balances the force of gravitation pulling inward,
and it is clear that for stars as large or larger than this a break-up
sooner or later is to be expected. This assigns very obviously the
upper limit to the masses—we can easily see why there are no stars
larger than a certain limit. But how about the lower limit? Are
there no stars very much smaller than this? Certainly there are,
We are living on one of them. Our earth is smaller by some thou-
sands of times; but then it is not a star in the full sense, for it is
not shining with its own light. If it did ever so shine the light
must have been feeble at best and have only lasted for a very short
time. There may, in fact, be many small stars, but we do not see
them, and accordingly have not reckoned them in saying that the
masses of the stars are closely similar.®

I can not give you a better idea of the value of Prof. Eddington’s
work than by quoting a few words from a letter written to me by

3On reading this again I realize that it does not do full justice to Eddington’s sug-
gestion for the lower limit. He shows a definite difficulty in the formation of small stars,
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1920.

Mr. Russell, again specially in response to a request mentioning this
lecture

What appeals to me as the big thing is Eddington’s work on radiative equi-
librium (MN 77, p. 16 and p. 596). The importance of this can hardly be

exaggerated; it is not too much to say that it is the first rational theory of
stellar constitution.

Eddington has in fact given us a rough attempt at tracing the
history of a star of given mass. By way of illustration let us con-
sider our own sun. He is now a “dwarf star,” on the descending
leg of the ladder, of spectral type G, and with a surface temperature
of about 5,000° C., and an absolute magnitude 5.1. Looking back
into the past he was at one time much hotter and of type I’, and
probably never rose much higher than this on the ladder. Before
that his history lay on the ascending leg, and there was a time when
his spectral type was just as at present, but his absolute magnitude
was near zero, five magnitudes greater than at present. This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means
that the total light was 100 times es than tale and since the

auwnfann wad in a camilawn vac ia Hixrn hhawan Lhaan_ tA t4maa

was near zero, five magnitudes preater’ than” at “present, This means

eects 2a clei eo

eects 2a clei eo

