: 2, j iz
, . ‘ i
L J ’. . ’ ae * }
Phu La » ow ‘ ng } ‘,
x a J ad ie = AM as 4
ts - . + ie ie 4
» - 4 t "
we “et gh be” *y
2 d a ’ f P 1
< P” % f bi
F ®, : f

—
i)
3 ed eee : =.
ae ee, 5 ss re Seage & oR an as
: = 4 —.. ware. F - . a
* 5 es % = : $ j : meses ee = .
eh ee be <= — mae
aes ee ee aS a
wa
Sard
MeF
Se
we.

= =~, ; : ; 2, : " 4
= = : a wet nes OS, =.
S35 ee 3) ee 1 . " . = Pad
= = iia oe a ; i. 7 F
Z a . Aggie 9) af > —
a yp es eg a tio »
s Neem? 3 eae - ol 7

= "an pa. z P
nee E te ae 4
Tea - a eo) ~ * oe
_ = J = “
- ee ° ¥
. rae : : oe ae 5 et 4
ad c -- Ot eee Ss
= - SI a ie =
. “es = =
" os % ~ oc m _ wf ——
= ms a abe ie. ies
2 Pty : “a

ee ie ee cs re iy, ‘3 Pi Pe a an

es tains y ri in a vee” tee et y dM a! i ie ae me .
A aps a? # us ay iy ay iY ? ~~, i bp de he Pe a
Ow ee eee ra Tie :
: r 4, ae A au ‘» i ,
pee ay I Oy We YS

| "§ Ke a ‘ fo y hee \y - o, * i
or Ree? ( tp _ _; — " 4
oe
Le I Le

S a ee ee eee
LIBRIS:

for bowel lefts to tae 5 pia to nid hed
Giuenty bokis Lelaad in blak ar red
Of Aristotle & his philosa-phie
g han aes ruche or sh e or ae ps

Ks SOO eee

ee
it oe a

~-s-

ee

>
7

he ae

.— Se ee ee. SS oe ee ee

ie eH

bt

ay ‘
Buhay
ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

1S.8 9. i) oD
; on wey pd r
a lay a a er Aes
/ Pen re ' in
i ute

= ae? : 4 im P
re aie 4 nae vy
i gy tact Tard Os
’ ite, Ue a

fo}

FIFTIETH CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION,

Concurrent resolution adopted by the House of Representatives July 28, 1888, and by the
Senate October 1, 188.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That there be printed
of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National Museum forthe years
ending June 30, 1886 and 1887, in two octavo volumes for each year, 16,000 extra copies
of each, of which 3,000 copies shall be for the use of the Senate, 6,000 copies for the
use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian
Institution.

II
The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1886, consists of two parts, viz:
PART I.—Report of the Smithsonian Institution proper, showing its

operations, expenditures, and condition.
II.—Report of the United States National Museum, showing its
progress and condition.

il
iv
ae
,

—
—-

oo
a7

5 ss ba
pe ae

“4 Ba j
Pd 1 ae '
t ot) hate. "x J
iehartie:
. i ot one ue oy
aeons
,

ile
bao ae
‘ 6 4) th

iy
7 |
th

| ’. ‘
GN.
‘y ok we |
Wy had
\ eae ae
”) +N Drea § 7 in

i
ay
i

Oa
a) asda

RAP ORT

OF THE

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

UNDER THE DIRECTION OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886.

REPORT OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886.

SUBJECTS.

Part I.—Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution upon the condition and progress of the Museum.
I1.—Reports of the Curators.
IIIl.—Reports upon special collections in the National Museum,
and papers illustrative of the collections.
IV.—Bibliography.
V.—List of accessions.

VE
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,
Washington, February 1, 1887.
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the Museum, and upon the work accomplished in its vari-
ous departments during the year ending June 30, 1886.
Very respectfully,
G., Brown GOODE,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
in charge of U.S. National Museum.
Prof. SPENCER I’. BAIRD,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

VII
ee
Bec. 4 flit a oh.

he om athe seat Hilla shige anpiccnbe
ne ree, BSH a Mt,

rt a ; a a:

a)
\ pe Gad. "

hae ay i
ers: one “ +]

Ae ee yy i
an a ft 7 a Dae ’

j ie rks

Sy ie i! Hoe AY

Pale

' Oa wee!

Ou 5A eee af

my Paes } ”
Pon 6%
\ dy ae nt ;

ee in) , iit xh

ee A
A si i ’ -
ae j < an F he
ie ra 7 thted ‘ P aly tinea We a Mes AY wD,
; " e tad OeTiit [ Pc wey,

“eee if Fh, rh eae ee NN A

=
ome
——,
oa
a
i hy
—- +
in
— .
=
a
—_-:
a
2
=.
?

“ aah) vil are eG Wr ny pa VOle as ele Ty pop Ga fe
‘ ro Ne bagless f (A a es fare, | on | 5
vp i a ay | W idk fe teen My ais Vee nt ae 7 Ni a 1)
j ‘aa ‘

. an ae * a “4, ‘ & 4) > \ aly,

hd 1,
a aan
realy) 4 | Ae ROT ean
a J a 4 tA :
ae oy oly Gaeta as vert
a. a ’ APA) wre liye «
. | eos
er, (Ae a
Bee age
J

ear) A rs a
ASS

a io ed a: ws Zit bey yi dh; vit Wee
ie reer sa Bae cee)

ier

a A

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

SUBJECTS Rees Le Ristelelaintt wie ae « s\hielete veweee Orem ce cee e eee acess sone ~ Be a) 9 emeai= es
ENTRODUCTOR WUE DUBR.... 202 ace eee ew Soeceeed. cae wce es tile eee. «a eee VIL
EABIEIOK CONLTENTS\ cos 2. ..s cot. 9 ae3. Te ea on ein, et ee Ae, Fire RS Cee x
ParT I.—REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY IN CHARGE OF ‘THE Na-
TIONAL MUSEUM.
Condition and progress of the U. S. National Museum, 1886 _.......22.......- 3
eee DHCMERSGUTN BUG - Ah sgarle se creas ooescw tess tsa dinhe oo clade ee ie ede
B.—The condition of the collections ........-. Festal ESET ete SoS A os tee ee 7
Consus. Of COLLECTIONS ti <de'uis acase aes ue ate p= ote eae ee ey eee 8
Catalorue entries: -<5.425 see Satine coclwase le Mae ee Bese oe eee 5
C.—Review of the year’s work in the scientific departments:
Division of Anthropology :
ATie ABC IN@USUTLES L6 2. ieee oa ck ob Le tian Sale cine eae eees 10
DieaORY Sees eo ees oe nae te tales 2 cece 3. peice ie Srey Siotete 13
Aboriginal American Pottery ....-. 02.2 s.2.20 Sees cecen pees 13
AC Wee OOM Yee eas 3 steele aortas Sa clen a5 hae aie ee ee , 14
Division of Zoology:
Manuals Soe aa. sateanss se cece seek se srne fa Sees Se 15
Birds, 2226-555 Be aacbe Seo ee eae Pete sche aeyvacia Jas a ee ee 15
Bees I ae te ee ce vine flee? acini as mine ae aa oe 16
Reptiles and Batrachians .. 22.225 2.522. sa aleanc kbs i6
Sea Seo is re in NO al ee gee 16
Mollusks (including Cenozoic Invertebrate Fossils) 2... ..-- 17
MISE CUS! S-Pa oage Pe She rai ete as fre ts cece roe ee ae 18
Marme\Invertebratess. fe 22055 420i oe ceels b.. eee ee ee 20
yomparative: ANALOMy: weer. So: soles t: ooe Soe aaoeee eee 26
Invertebrate Fossils, Paleozoic... -.......0.2.1-- 2s -ee enc bee 21
Invertebrate Fossils, Mesozoic ...........-..-.-.-. .-- Jeet 21
Invertebrate Fossils, Cenozoic .-.... ...2 22.2 eee wee nee 2]
Division of Botany:
MOSSileh IANS 27.2665 Fo oS o ne asa el floc ca eeee cen ee 21
Recent Plants. ..-.-- Sie aha aapentarotsisigceate sestatts, Mente ena tae ee eee 21
Division of Geology:
BEIM CERI p te 2. 6 oe a oh, Sb areas ncaa cape heat eae 22
Lithology and Physical Geology. .-.....-.-. 2.2. ..--2- -o-s-e 22
Metallurgy and Economic Geology ......-...-.-...--...--- 23
D.—Review of the administrative work of the year:
1. Progress of general and incidental work ...................-...-- : 25
i) IGE OR SEN ei ans, rica licen natn hela == Sean aio oa se Mee et ee 25
(b) Exchanges and distribution of duplicates ......-.-...---- 26
(c) Publications’ .....----..---- ot acnnn ese Swope oie) = Siclah ae age ate 29
(7D) NAGI Ie Meee ah he EBS oRe Gap SOE Perc Sr cuae riseoe cei 32
(é)potudenta and lectures: =: "(te - 9-4 ooo sic e oa a nous we ate oe
(f). Meetings of societies. ..---.-------..-..-..-- EEE ne es 34
xX TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Page
D—Review of the administrative work of the year—Continued.
2. Current administrative work: .
(a) Buildings and labor; police and public comfort ........-. 38
(CO) MBleGtric seRvice soe Shoe e mae mec e,s oie ciateala aoe ee ee ore 41
(¢c) Cases and fixtures!..--.2.2-2-.... mA Sas AG yee Oa 42
(@)y-Propertyand 'puppliosjes sate se i ekicceee a-ak See eee eeeeee 42
(@) Correspondence andireporis i... ceases. 22s eae eee ener 44
G/)sPreparationlonh labele\csecec 2 ommeeces anc cs eee 44
3. The work of the Museum preparators :
(0) Raxidermists sate -sceetae sas Sy-saaeepe sci ole aetna eee 44
(Gh) Osteolosical preparavor 2): oo coeeeeeme sine se .4 sear See AT
(e)MModplersie aeeeercn wei: 22 cs sence eee ote ae eee 48
(d) Photographer ...-..-- eae cid 5p ale ene eee ats aon ea an te 48
(@)icAr ist aes R aa Asta ss 2.2 Same pere ee cai aie ee 49
(f) Preparator in the Department of Arts and Industries...... 49
Av ACCESSLONSsCO) CHE MINSO MD ie- elena 2 einer tee eee ee arene 49
Geovraphical Review of the accessions. .-_+.- 2.5.2.5 32-------:- 50
5. Co-operation of the Departments and Bureaus of the Government-. 65
6. Report upon the participation of the Smithsonian Institution in the
New Orleans, Pxpositione 5... d22.0 a serae eee eee 70
PakT IJ.—REPORTS OF THE CURATORS.
4a
GH TOLO Dyer oO Tsp VEASON Rs cits cle mee eniele Vota cicmts octe ssn terete eee 87
American Aboriginal Pottery. William H. Holmes ...... ... ee Pree sen yee es 97
ATEN BOlLOTY ep OHarlOs rd re anise tio mse Senate see seine kien lene uae nee see eee 101
Foods and Textiles. Romyn Hitchcock .---.......... Pe eee adn Messy se sea nF 113
Steam Transportation. J. Elfreth Watkins. ..-.-. 22.222. .220. Jolcce ocean eed 119
Materia vlediea) JEl.AG.beyer MieD., Man aNios cose> wlccceocinccce sh enime a 8 a 143
ATOM ALS pe LOC OLIC A WaMhEUO lo aacit treason ccticieiaele chance ila em neers eee meee 147
aS PODER DRC OWA. smo smsamises en e's once ec laiai is che meric apae ee este enerae eles 153
BILdseh vos Cap bee cre DenGInes Wh ists soca el-are ioe eect cea e ee meer 163
Reptiles and Batrachians. H.C. Yarrow, M. D., U.S. A....--..---..-...---- 165
PUSHES Ss AUATIOTON EG CAND Sime mol oie no keeles cai ssiatiete ss eee) ae eeiee nie te ee 167
Mollusks, including Cenozoic Invertebrate Fossils. William H. Dall.--...--... 173
rotaces ei ios Wiskeilegy oPos * enw, com Seek LUT. Rin AO Mae cients Mistaietsie 181
Manne lnivertebrapes. Richard Rathbun. 220-324 eee ee mene cie ener eee 199
Comparative Anatomy. . Frederick W. True 2225-2 - nce. cojcsione et aewes mec seek 209
Invertebrate Hossils (Paleozoic): C.D: Walcoth: -oe2> .2o. sc ccben cece soemee 215
Invertebrate Fossils (Mesuzoic). C. A. White ...-.. 2-22.22... 2.22 eo ee see o eee 229
Bossul-Plants:, “ Lestemaehi Wald -- <0 98 odscccecnc/ense acca onde eee eee eae 231
Recenv-Plants!)) Lester By Ward)... sac -150 tue aee ease one so cic c= Soe Re ee mere 233
Mineralsin | shaw Clarke eo 2s eee SSS at hata oc cis ie ae Ee ees 237
Lithology,and Physical Geology. George P. Merrill ..........-............-. 239
Metallurgy and Econumie Geology. Fred. P. Dewey---.--.--..--.------------ 245

Part III.—REPORTS UPON SprciAL COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND
PAPERS ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE COLLECTIONS. ’

I. The Meteorite Collection; a Catalogue of Meteorites represented Novem-

ber 1886; By haw. Clarke i./522 sae ste See oOo ae eee Ree ie 255
i. Phe: Gem:Collection.. By George F. Kung 2-2-2028 os0.s = lat gene ee 267
III. The Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones; a Hand-book and Cat-
alorue;¢With index.)’ (By Georre-Po Mernllon.< j22h 2 se eee ee 277
IV. The Collection of Textiles; List of Fibers and Fabrics. By Romyn Hitch-
COO Raion see eile pL en ince a ne ie ke eee thie oho ee err Purest 649
*
TABLE OF CONTENTS.

«

V. Preparation of Microscopical Mounts of Vegetable Textile Fibers. By

Romiyn) Hitchcock. s.'2-.--2< = es Aid OR eR ea rie a ae ee ee ee
VI. How to Collect Mammal Skins for Purposes of Study and for Mounting.

Eyeing ts WEL ODM CAN ee Soe cei See ae 2 SE ce are eter dower Soe anloe
Part I[V.—BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.
i PupWGatrons OL une WkaseUIn 2 2222.2 ab 5. ek os ab oboe os Se dee Sth e

II. Papers by officers and other investigators whose writings are based di-
rectly or indirectly on Museum material ............-.-----+------.-

Part V.—List oF ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

ist of accessions, arranged numerically. .:--...---....---.s--- Re ee RT n ee,
inpEx A;—Arranced ly locality 1.2.20 ahs. <<ice< 2 -cccie ee cece see ein ane nctceses
InDEX B.—Arrangediby departments ..---..--.--....--- ee eee at teeta
INDEX C.—Arranged hy name of sender..............--..--- Byeyactave see che ereae tae
General index to report .---- A sieaee s Seco cciscmoie see Sete coe serece aoe SS eae
,
.
.
3

Page.
"1, ; ie
sm cd
§ a only Let Jean

> . "4 7 y ia
Suton ea
ot Ae

‘ net ead ’ he 5 t+ 1
’ Coe ya? v1 ee
oat tic ae an Bie va Or i
\ ipl eMail . ta! ey Mg 5”)

‘, a : ia ae eae 4 ie
*.. oy = 7 “ ; ¥ } =
ag har pis ty ‘ ashy ty) shh rs ah i on ; . ;

‘ i ‘ ‘ Fe t

RN |i gy ce oh es Ay OR Sate - Ths He ee ey Ds"

- ho a ; ~- ‘ op i wae ye ? 7%

‘y pen pe 4 ‘ ah 4) af by par & RV y ae
| (ie a Bare h i Cuore |e anya ue ae ay Sent Te mAt iy" i I
A Se 5, eh ‘ i BATRees 4 Pe '

" a 7 04 : b ip a) if Vr lg } s* on Nak Ty LA . i ,

a eS a a i ' iy =| ore

» ¢ y i , ‘ ‘ " 7 “a
_ Peis: yy Pons 4 HM ” ry Ie hi ; ie f

4 ey oy be hen hi hat 5
. 1 + ee ay) ; ay a ASKS hale i aD be: vA, ye ri hed
4 , . : j ¥

ied. any aie. oy) i ea 4 bie 4 we a6
Be Wid yee f° acetates hes) is dad py 1
i eae hi Se ee on ele Eien. «i kim aa Mae ee 4
Fi ‘ee ir Lb © t Pathe nN nae ah fs Vy Xu ‘a . ’
are ee set wer ee Sanity Poni j i
a ih: ws me i a as oe eae r
Bie. Rae pe ean NE
aaa ay j ae Ki NG, os Diy ne lie

ane a) ds . aka waae ie ee 4a) A .

=

t

a

a Bs oma.
vt iu c

Pak, }

ee Oe mecca

vr!

I 4
, ®

al" A eee weary

fe oy! . fi 4 ‘ y wall
y Rath

* ; i
zis hep 1

eae

REPORT

UPON THE

CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1886.

BY

G. BROWN GOODH,

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSON AN INSTITUTION, IN CHARGH OF THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

é

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2-———1 1
LIST OF ERRATA.

Page 33, for ‘‘ Berdell,” read ‘‘ Rerdell.”

Page 56, for ‘‘T. T. Lamb,” read “T. F. Lamb.”

Page 56, for “‘H. M. Meling,” read ‘‘ H. M. Malling.”

Page 60, for ‘‘ Prof. I. H. Morrison,” read ‘ Prof. J. H. Morrison.”
Page 108, for “J. U. Johnson,” read ‘‘ J. W. Johnson.”

Page 253, for ‘‘Rufus W. Deering,” read ‘‘ Romyn Hitchcock.”
Page 432, for “ diaBvorc,” read ‘ dca Sacre.”
REPORT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE UNITED ee
NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
1886,

In the report now presented, which relates to the year ending with
June 30, 1886, it was my intention to have presented a general review
of the history of the Museum, and of its several departments. The
publication of this historical sketch will, however, be reserved for pre-
sentation at some future time.

The name NATIONAL MUSEUM was used in the Smithsonian Reports
as early as 1868, though it was not until after the erection of the new
building had been determined upon that this designation seems to have
been actually adopted by Congress. It was without doubt the pur-
pose of Congress, as early as 1846, that a national museum should be
established in Washington, and that it should be placed under the ad-
ministrative direction of the Smithsonian Institution, then just organ-
ized. Such was manifestly the intention of the act of incorporation
passed in that year, by which it was provided that “all objects of art
and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history,
plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or here-
after to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Wash-
ington,” should be delivered to the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, and, together with the new specimens obtained by exchange,
donation, or otherwise, should be so arranged and classified as best to
facilitate their examination and study.*

It was not until 1858 that the actual custody of the ‘“‘ National Cabi-
net” was assumed by the Regents, and appropriations were made by
Congress for its maintenance. During the twenty-three years which
followed, the collections were greatly increased and were made the
subjects of numerous important memoirs upon the natural history and
ethnology of America. The public halls, with their arrangements for
the exhibition of a portion of the collections, also received a due share
of attention, and a reasonable amount of instruction and pleasure was
afforded to visitors. The appropriations however were small, the space
limited, and the staff so inadequate, that little could be done except to
keep the collections in a good state of preservation.

* An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution ‘‘ for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” (Approved August 10, 1846; Revised Statutes, Title LXIII,
sections 5579-0594.) See also Revised Statutes, section 5586, and Statutes Forty-
fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182, p. 894.

3
4 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

The Exhibition of 1876 in Philadelphia was an event of great educa-
tional importance to the people of the United States; and not the least
of its benefits were the lessons it taught as to the possibilities for good
in public museums. The objects which were given to the United States
for its National Museum, at the close of the Centennial, were of much
intrinsic value, but were still more important, in that they led to the
erection of a large building for the expansion of the museum itself.

From 1876 to 1881 was a period of incubation. The museum embryo
was developing, but it was within ashell of store-houses. From 1881 to
1886, another period of five years, its growth has been rapid, though
the organism is still in its infancy. These five years have been years
of experiment, but it is hoped that it is now evident to the people and
to Congress that the young museum is now ready to begin a promising
progress toward maturity.

Among the most important features of the work, up to the present
time, certain definite stages of progress have been attained, among the
most important of which may be mentioned :

(1) An organization of the Museum staff has been effected—efficient
for present purposes and capable of expansion and extension as occa-
sion may require.

(2) Through the agency of this staff, the materials in the Museum,
the accumulations of nearly half a century, have been examined, classi-
fied, and brought under control.

(3) The collections have been more than doubled in extent.

(4) A beginning has been made toward the development of a thor-
oughly labelled exhibition series, available for the instruction of the
public.

(5) A thorough study of the organizations and systems of classifica-
tion in other museums throughout the world has been made, the results
of which are beginning to appear in the work of the Museum staff. A
report upon the great museums of the world is in preparation and will
soon be published.

(6) Many new methods of installation have been deéveloped by experi-
ments in the Museum, and in the expositions in which the Museum has
participated. These are finding favor, and are being adopted in many
similar establishments at home and abroad, and will certainly add to
the economy and success of our own administration.

(7) Science has been forwarded by the publication of many hundreds
of papers deseribing the materials in the Museum, while the work of
specialists in the production of these papers has greatly improved the
significance and value of the collections.

It is, L think, possible to show that Washington may readily be made
the seat of ene of the greatest museums in the world. It will perhaps
be neither practicable nor desirable to gather together in Washington
collections of ancient and medieval art, such as those which adorn the
capitals of Europe; but a representative series of such objects will un-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5

doubtedly grow up, which shall tend to educate the public taste, and to
promote, so far as possible, the study of the elements of art and the
history of civilization, as weil as to forward the growth of the arts of
design. This having been accomplished, the attention of the Museum
should be directed mainly toward the exhibition of the geology and
natural history of America, and its natural resources, to the preserva-
tion of memorials of its aboriginal inhabitants, and to the exposition
of the arts and industries of America.

In referring to the industries of America it is not intended to recom:
mend that anything similar to what is generally understood as an “ in-
dustrial exhibition” should be attempted. The element of competitive
display should not be admitted, and no two objects of precisely similar
import should ever be placed side by side.

As early as 1851, the scope of the Museum was considered to be a
question of great importance; but even now it is perhaps too early to
speak definitely in regard to the nature of its fature development. The
first Secretary of the Institution, Professor Henry, was opposed to the
accumulation of extensive collections at the expense of the Smithsonian
fund. He didnot underrate the importance of great collections, but, on
the contrary, deemed it the duty of the Institution to point out the means
‘by which they might be made, and to aid in this work by utilizing all
opportunities for procuring specimens for distribution, by facilitating
exchanges, and by assisting explorations. He considered the formation
of a general collection, although beyond the means of the Institution at
that time, an object which ought to engage the attention of Congress,
and was firmly convineed that in accepting donations of specimens,
preference should be given to those of importance for use in scientifie
research, the study of which was likely to produce new and interesting
results. Professor Baird, taking up the same administrative problem
at a later period, and finding the conditions greatly changed, has
forwarded enthusiastically the progress of the National Museum, sup.
ported as if now is by direct grants of money from the general Gov-
ernment. With the experience of these years it has become evident
that the National Museum of the United States will of necessity have
features peculiar to itself, developed in response to the peculiar needs
of the people of this continent. It should be remembered that the na-
tional collections of *every principal European nation are divided into
several groups, each under separate administration, though often within
the general control of some central authority. In France, for instance,
most of the museums are under the Ministry of Public Lnstruection, and
in England, to a less extent, under the Department of Science and Art.

In London, in Paris, in Berlin, and in Vienna the public collections
are scattered through various parts of the city, in museums with dis-
tinctive names, and independent in their organizations. Much of the
work which should properly be done by such museums is omitted, be-
cause no one of them has seen fit to undertake it; while, on the other
6 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

hand, much labor is duplicated, which is perhaps equally unfortunate,
collections of similar scope and purpose being maintained in different
parts of the same city. One of the chief objections to such division of
effort is, that much of the value of large collections in any department is
lost by failure to concentrate them where they may be studied and com-
pared side by side. In Washington the national collections are all,
without exception, concentrated in one group of buildings. The Army
Medical Museum will soon oceupy a building side by side with those
under the control of the Smithsonian Institution, and this proximity,
in connection with the long-established policy of co-operation between
the two organizations, will cause them to be, for all practical purposes,
united in interest.

It is possible that, in the future, museums of specialties, occupying
buildings of their own, may grow up under the control of other Execu-
tive Departments of the Government, but it is to be hoped that they
will not be very remote from the chain of museum buildings already
in process of formation, and that a harmonious system of co-operation
will always be found to be practicable.

The National Museum is now approaching an important crisis in its
history. Its future will depend upon the action of Congress in granting
it an additional building, for without more room its growth can not
but be in large degree arrested. From this time forward it will be im-
possible to develop the collections satisfactorily without additional
space. The laboratories and workshops are already entirely inadequate
for the storage of the unexhibited collections and the accommodation
of the preparators and mechanics, and the exhibition halls do not afford
suitable opportunity for the display of the materials already in order
for public examination. Each collection, and above all each depart-
ment, should have a hall of its own, more or less completely isolated
from those which adjoinit. ,It is evident that when several collections
are placed side by side in the same department, much is lost in respect
to effect and convenience of study, not*to mention the still greater dis-
advantage of overcrowded space.

A.—THE MUSEUM STAFF.

Several changes have been made in the arrangement of the scientific
staff during the year. The collection of Cenozoic Fossils is now in the
custody of the Curator of Moliusks, the Department of Invertebrate
Paleontology having been divided into three groups, corresponding to
the three principal periods of geologic time, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and
Cenozoic. Mr. John B. Smith was appointed Assistant Curator of the
Department of Insects on August 1, 1885, Mr. Romyn Hitchcock,
Curator in the Department of Arts and Industries, was granted leave
of absence for two years to visit Japan for scientific exploration, and,
haying received from the Japanese Government an appointment as
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. q

Professor in the University of Osaka, departed on his mission in July,
1886.

Mr. W. V. Cox was designated Chief Clerk in December, 1885, Mr.
Kt. I. Geare has been placed in charge of Correspondence and Reports ;
and Mr. A. Howard Clark is Assistant in charge of Publications, Sta-
tionery, and Labels. Mr. S. C. Brown, as Registrar, has charge of
Transportation, Registry, and Storage. Mr. John Murdoch has been
designated Assistant Librarian.

By the death, March 19, 1886, of Mr. James Templeman Brown, the
Museum suffered the loss of an enthusiastic worker, who had rendered
efficient service in the development of the Museum. Mr. Brown had
made an exhaustive study of the whale fisheries of the world, and the
collection formed by bim to illustrate the history of the New England
whale fishery, will always be a prominent feature in the fisheries court.

The Museum staff, as now organized, consists of two classes—the
scientific officers or curators, and the administrative officers.

There are at present 28 curatorships, some of which are divided, so
that the number of heads of departments or sub-departments is 26,
and the total number of men in the scientific staff 30, of whom 13 are in
the pay of the Museum, and the others are honorary (or unpaid), some
being detailed for this duty by the Director of the Geological Survey,
by the Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, others by the Commis-
sioner of Fish and Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the Navy, while
two are volunteers. These details are in every instance made in the
interests of co-operation by those Bureaus of the Government engaged
in work closely connected with that of the Museum. The paleontol-
ogists of the Geological Survey have found it to be so much to their
advantage to have access to the paleontological collections of the Mu-
seum and the use of the laboratories, storage cases, and general ad-
ministrative appliances of the Museum, that they are permitted by
the Director to assume the responsibilities of curatorships and perform
a general work of supervision. It isintended, however, that the Museum
shall provide paid assistants, to relieve the honorary curators of most
of the routine work of their departments.

B.—THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The reports of the curators indicate that the collections under their
charge are in an excellent state of preservation.

The perishable objects, such as skins of birds and mammals, the in-
sects, certain ethnological materials, and the objects preserved in spirits,
have in most cases been provided with improved case accommodations,
and a decided advance has been made in the methods of preventing in-
sect ravages.

During the year the coliection of aboriginal American pottery in the
northwest court has been opened to the public, and a series of casts of
8 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

reptiles has been placed on exhibition in the west range of the Smith-
sonian building. Almost the entire lower hall in the Smithsonian build-
ing has been devoted to the bird collection, though the Department of
Mollusks still retains some of its specimens in the table cases between
the bird cases in the alcoves. A small series of insects* has been in-
stalled in the southeast court of the Museum building, and the osteol-
ogical collection has been largely extended. The collections acquired
by the Museum at the close of the New Orleans Exposition have been
received and assigned.

In connection with the administration of the collections, three hundred
and twenty-two paperst have been published, of which a tabulated
statement, by subjects, is given under the heading of ‘‘ Publications.”

In the report for 1884, when the last census of the collections was
reported, the number of specimens in the Museum was estimated at
1,471,000. During the last eighteen months{ the increase has been, as
shown by the following table, 949,934 specimens:

CENSUS OF THE COLLECTIONS.

Estimated number of specimens in the several depariments of the Museum, June 30, 1886.

Department of Arts and Industries: No. of specimens.
Ma beria Me diGd in) 2. tices ee cans Sek cet ss epee nigniae tome eee ee 4, 850
MoextAleyIndnsiries SnssccSecos sacs Scat ee eee Eee ee eee 3, 064
DAYS] 013) ul e's |e pte 4 ea NE en RS a pap ae Miyahara at en eR aah ones eA 9, 870
Animal products yso-c-s Soce sae e cs co meas bocm Ree ee Ree eae eee eee 2, 792
HW OOM ST oss: occ cue cnbiaberccew caemeuibos ae Sine se eat ee ae eee eee 822
Bistorical relies ss c28 fs ee eee ote See ee 1, 002
Paints an@idyestiecs-s2 Geoweees tac e be cee eeenee Cee ee eee 77
The CatliniGallery << sae See pare an ee oe Se he ate tee eee 500
Physical apparatus .<ccccee2 cuenceacemisscen eee epee tecec eae eee 250
Oilsjand’oumiss isc eseme cas coe et oe eet ae teen cee eee ee 197
Chemical products}: <3. ss he sca cee ase eee cee See eee eee 659
Musical instruments \). 025s). 2222 7 le Seep ees eee ee ee 400
Modérn pottery )ic26-) tee tbass occ s Sat emer ees Se 2,278
Coins and medals, paper money, etc .....------.----------------- 1, 055

Ii.“(a) Department of Bthnology 2.25: x. .ccene-c weonae oon sae kee eee § 500, 000
II. (b) Department of Prehistoric American Pottery.....-.------------- 25, 000
_IIl. Deparment of Prehistoric Anthropology .-.. .- Se ese eet Ss Soe 65, 314
IV. Department of Mammals (skins and alcoholic specimens) ..----.----- 7, 451
Vi (Departmentiof Birds... ook debe ook caw cocsk « Soe See eee 55, 945
Vien) Department Of Binds hers. so a-ha a8 oc. 5 eee eee eee 44, 163
VI. Department of Reptiles and Batrachians.....-.... «2200. 0s-6se-n-s 25, 344
VIL. Department) of Mishes. 25). 4c «hocccs dace ---» -c paren ee 75, 000
IX. Department of Mollusks (including Cenozoic fossils) .-..------------ 460, 000
x. Department of Tnseetes\ 2.5 {cosa ees 2c. 2k 2, eee eats 500, 000

* Perhaps one-fourth of the material on exhibition formed the exhibit prepared for
the New Orleans Exposition.

t Ninety-five of these papers were prepared by investigators not officially connected
with the Museum.

¢ January, 1885, to Julyy1886.

§ Estimated.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 9

No. of specimens.

XI; Department of Marine Invertebrates. .<....- 2... cc20-s sees. a. eo =-- *350, 000
XII. Department of Comparative Anatomy .......--.-------- ..---------- 10, 210

SIG LOLO LIS aa = et ee ee Ot ie StS ala cee’ a) aimra wie ay aioe Sioa s, wajee= 1, 987

SPU ee a a Bee a Se ee 6, 581

IATGILOLS). da acs See ete Scicie aiwlainiaolssaiaicielesiato eee 89

@asts Of DraMmssesee see meets ce ceases cecces se ccseieancess 34

IBIEAS? SUCLI. ke = a ita eo eects da eet me Soc taste, Saw ees L619
XII. (a) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Palezoic) ..,--..---------- 80, 482
XIII. (b) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic) ..---.----------- 69, 742
PROVee Denaniiment OL MOSS Plants eee sas 22 ncie onc see aee cane mista 7,429
MVE Department or Recent Planteseeee >. -\\<<6:s-in<o2< se case eenaaccansee +30, 000
MVE Depinument of Minerals: ....eeeasemcces a5 -2 <= Sacelse since ceccs= 1s, 401
XVII. Department of Lithology and Physical Geology ..--...-----.------- 20, 647
XVIII. Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology .-..-.--.--------- 48, 000
ADO Ue ne 570 OE oo RE EES ee ee 2, 420, 944

There have been no important changes in the assignment of exhibition
space since the last report was prepared. In the hall devoted to the
display of the materia medica collection, a portion of the collection of
food substances has been arranged, and in a corner of the north hall are
exhibited a few of the objects collected for the section of steam trans-
portation. A few cases in the north hall have also been filled with
coins and medals. The east end of the northeast balcony in the Smith-
sonian building has been occupied by the department of Ethnology
in arranging the collection of weapons. There are still several depart-
ments to which no exhibition space whatever has been assigned, on
account of lack of room, and the only remedy is a new additional build-
ing. <A great mass of material is at present stored in the Armory Build-
ing, and must remain there until Congress has provided more spacious
accommodations for the collections.

CATALOGUE ENTRIES.

The number of entries made during the year in the Museum regis-
ters of the several departments is 52,115, are indicated in the following
tabie:

Arts and Industries:

MEAGSLI BECO Cais. oa eye re eee Onc Saminins a ates sa debe cee cece 409

RES GUSTS) 2 Se so See 624

LO OLS MEISE bron o.oo beers Ee Shi a rt ac eee wit soe co Meeeee 274

Historical Relics, Coins and Medals, and Modern Pottery -.----- 1, 507

EUS AOe D) VCS 3-2 sc Soseaaee sels ct oh te obec wos ale ceisas's eacc,s 41

@Stamnlale Gunns! soos ce St is ko ow Salloec ee Soce sks eae cmos eee 112

Clemiicals Products’... cocoa ics cas ocecisctccowoeces sclacteslnccs 38

Hisheries and: Animal Products).o.< J-22--2----ceecece Seecce cess 226

—. S23

LOT 5) ce Se, SO Re on, ee ee ae oe a ee a 1, 344
Pe eaee TO MIShOLIC: POLLEE Wai ake oe nc os ath oheni sc cccic '<a\slgw ou cicpicies elem aecin aie 3, 235
PIECES eee eet 4) =). Me MRO Ee Cee ed eo kuin a asetee Casa On'cd mata 647
IVIGOTKLTNL al Secrets |- + tl eR kL ie ee as oS od aca de rola 407
SCO eee ee tha ee ae Ne ht SCs Abe 2 cies ceeedueee 4, 147

* Duplicates not included. ; t Exclusive of Professor Ward’s collection.
10 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Tey KA OU Bea MeO e Ee aO Oe maa CO asia S SASe Sanne eB eAeEESS Bos Se oe 253
Repiilestand Batachians << sac--ecclne es si-heem aie ca sees = n> eo eee aes , 444
IMS BRS ee SER aeoO non oSceac css S55 ofc 55 LAS SO SERRE pecan 2 SoSe dese 662
Mollusks (including Cenozoic Invertebrate Fossils). ‘Lhe total number of en-
tries is made up from nineteen different series) .-..-. ..-.-.-----2.---- =. 18, 638
WNSCCUS Sace ee tae Sean Ue tee Cee es Ree ate eRe ame eset o ols ae ee oe eee en tame 1,400
Marine Invertebrates (excepting Mollusks) :
CORTE REN eyety OF i a ey ta Se ol SRR ES tes 1, 483
WO TLTB os Seat ie mote aie eta tte teil === ae ee 238
PONICAtES ANG Oly OZOae se seein cetee so) |e 2 setae ee ote 284
R@dTaAbes) cn coed Selec ec eee en Se eee 6 wc SE Soe ae ole antes 3, 741
Sponges and Protozoa. ...------2.-.-.--- eos senna = so eene --=- 1, 323
a gO
Comparative Anatomy :
Wharnniall Sere cmete ete ieeinte weicinire se aioe cok a ce ene ep Ne mtellnthes a aera 407
DDR V ee HAREM OCECOs Bem MOS REESE D Ree SECA B or Soke on Sao Base 283
TMI Nays os Ne foo oe ON ASAI eee ae Cmca aden cin see 137
IRepDULESs AMO BAUTACNANS = <0 ceric ce clean a eel aseinle eeminte = eee 185
z ——— USC lz
Inverisvrate LOssilsS—EaleOZOlerscas\s cc cence came sae sls ane eet a eects 610
Imyertebrate Possils—Mesozoie- - 225 thoes2- oe sence he pee lace na ieeeelaceiaele 1,563
ossillPllantse aces cee cai ee orice: cetecee can eee sae ela sala a ela iemeteietar te ae eras 15
Recent Plants... scss oss ee eeee cle cele e ome aise Stem aes eaten eines Aiea tee tetainete 40
Mim er als apieyes sis caeite see eetnaimer ats ob ia ei sera eb aie etes niet toe ean «raat eee 17:
Mitholoey and Physical Geolorya 2: nses-.)-cscnee con aee sae ae ore eee eens *1, 021
Metallurgy and Economic Geology... -.-. 222. 22-200 e200 none ----- 2 oon e one 5, 506
52, 116

C.—REVIEW OF THE YEAR'S WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC
DEPARTMENTS.

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY.
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES.

The collection of textiles is installed in the northeast court of the
Museum, and is provided with printed labels and illustrative diagrams: _
it includes a very full series of the animal and vegetable fibers of the
world, together with devices for spinning and weaving, and the various”
products of the textile industries.

Much of the material intended for exhibition can not be installed in
the now limited space available, and is stored away in boxes until in-
creased space will warrant its display.

A few cases containing food specimens are on exhibition, and the
composition of the human body is graphically illustrated, together with
its daily expenditure of tissues, and the manner in which this is com-
pensated for by daily rations of food. This collection is exhibited upon
the plan of the famous collection of similar character prepared by Dr.
Lankester and others for the Bethnal Green Museum in London. It is,
however, based upon an entirely new series of analyses and a revised
pian prepared by Prof. W. O. Atwater, of Wesleyan University.

The section of materia medica is under the charge of Dr. H. G. Beyer,
U.S. Navy, who has been detailed for this work by the Surgeon-Gen-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ib

eral of the Navy, under whose supervision the collection has been in-
stalled. Its increase during the year has been greater than during any
previous year except the first, when the nucleus of the collection was
formed from the collections received from different national departments
at the Centennial Exhibition, and by the gifts of W. TH. Schiefilin & Co.,
of New York, which were remarkable for their interest and value.

Among the most important accessions received during the year, were
those presented by the Governments of Jamaica, Japan, and Mexico;
the collection of Dr. Edward Palmer, from the States and Territories of
the Southwest; and the gifts of F. Stearns & Co., of Detroit, Mich.,
and W. 58. Thompson, of Washington, D.C. The curator has devoted
much time to completing his arrangement of the collection, and has ear-
ried on several important investigations on the physiological action of
drugs. Seven original papers embodying the results of his investi-
gations have been published and are given in the bibiiography, and two
more are in press; others are in progress. The exhibition series now
contains 3,326 specimens, and nearly half of these are provided with
printed labels. The whole collection now includes 4,850 specimens, and
409 entries have been added to the catalogue during the year. A de-
scriptive catalogue is now in preparation.

There has been a constant improvement in the condition of the fish-
eries collection, which, since its inauguration in the east north range in
1884, has been under the curatorship of Mr. R. E. Earll. The nucleus for
this collection was obtained from the Philadelphia Exhibition in 1876.
The fisheries of North America are now so thoroughly represented that
there can be but little necessity for extending this portion of the de-
partment, except by keeping it abreast of the time, by exhibiting mod-
ern improvements in apparatus, and the building up of certain special.
subjects rather of local importance, such as the Chinese fisheries of
the Pacific coast. Important contributions have been received from
the Government of Siam through Minister Haldeman, from the Gov-
ernment of Japan, and the collections from Great Britain, Sweden,
Spain, France, Holland, and Greece, acquired at the close of the Lon-
don Exhibition, in 1853, have been incorporated in the exhibition series.
The necessity of more exhibition space is very apparent. The fish-
cultural objects are almost entirely crowded out, and many of the objects
are now hung against the wail at such a height as to render them,
and the labels attached to them, at least partially invisible.

The coliection of animal products is also under Mr. Karll’s charge.
The nucleus of this collection was obtained at the Philadelphia Exhibi-
tion in 1876, and was greatly extended by the addition of material pre-
sented from the New Orleans Exposition. There are now on exhibition
nearly 1,600 specimens, illustrating the applications of the products of
the animal kingdom in the arts and industries.

In the north hall of the Museum are displayed several hundred ob-
jects relating to the history of soldiers and statesmen, and a large num-
12 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

ber of relics of important events. Here are the Washington relics,
transferred in 1883 from the Patent Office, and which include much
that is interesting in connection with the domestic and field life of
Washington. Among other relics may be mentioned the gifts of for-
eign Governments to President Jefferson, Commodore Perry, General
Ripley, General Grant, and others; as well as memorials of many of the
Arctic expeditions sent out by the United States and English Gov-
ernments during the last forty years, including those in charge of Sir
John Franklin, McClintock, Kane, Hall, and De Long. During the
year a large number of objects illustrating the history of the Southern
Confederacy have been contributed; and it is hoped that the collec-
tions to dlustrate the participation of the North in the war of the Re-
bellion may be similariy increased.

The arrangement of a collection of coins and medals has been begun,
and about 2,000 specimens have already been placed on exhibition. A
series of medals illustrating the history of the United States, including
bronze copies in duplicate of all the medals that have been struck at
the Mint since its organization, has been deposited in the Museum by
the Director of the Mint. The coin series is increasing, and progress
has been made in classifying and labelling about 2,000 specimens of
ancient Greek and Roman coins recently presented to the Museum, and
of the numerous foreign medals at various times presented to the
Smithsonian Institution.

A section devoted to the history of transportation was organized un-
der the supervision of Mr. J. E. Watkins in 1885. The exhibit, which
is at present small, includes the engine “John Bull” imported from
England in 1833 for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and some
objects illustrating the beginnings of the American railroad system.
The report of Mr. Watkins presented in Part I{, contains an exhaustive
plan in connection with the development of this section, and it is hoped
that it may be practicable to carry it out.

A collection of some two hundred and fifty scientific instruments,
consisting for the most part of apparatus used by Priestley, Henry, and
Hare, is temporarily exhibited in the north hall, as well as the original
Morse telegraph instrument deposited by Stephen Vail.

There are included in this department a great many other collections
which at present have no organized supervision, and to which additions
are not at present specially sought for several reasons. Among these are
the collections of musical instraments, modern pottery, and porcelain,
lacquer, and the various processes used in the reproductive industries.
It is expected that the lithographic and allied exhibits will be shortly
developed.

Four large and valuable tapestries, depicting scenes in the life of
Alexander the Great, and executed by Jan Leyniers, a celebrated Flem-
ish weaver who was born in 1627 and died in 1686, have been deposited
by General P. H. Sheridan.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY.

Prof. Otis T. Mason, curator of Ethnology, has been constantly en-
gaged in the preliminary classification of the immense collections of
material under his charge, with special reference to their final installa-
tion, devoting his attention chiefly to certain classes of objects, such as
weapons of war and the chase, implements of agriculture, and other
primitive industries. In addition to these great series classified ac-
cording to function, other groups of objects have been arranged with
reference to ethnical considerations.

In the classification of the numerous groups of objects in this de-
partment, such as basket work, throwing-sticks, sinew-back bows, arch-
ery, transportation, and the several handicrafts of the various tribes of
Indians, an effort is being made to introduce the strict methods of classi-
fication and nomenclature which are already applied in the other depart-
ments of natural science.

The Eskimo collection has been arranged in table cases in one of the
exhibition halls in accordance with the ethnic idea, although inthe minor
details of classification function and form as well as geographical dis-
tribution have been followed.

In November, 1885, Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, having been
detailed for service in the National Museum by the Secretary of the
Navy, was assigned to duty in this department.

The number of specimens in this department is estimated by the
curator at 500,000, During the year 1,344 entries were made in the
catalogues.

The interest of this department is constantly increasing under its
present energetic management, and its value to visitors has been greatly
enhanced by the extension of the system of descriptive labels.

SECTION OF ABORIGINAL AMERICAN POTTERY.

The accessions to this section during the past year have been numer-
ous and very important, especially those received from the Bureau of Eth-
nology. The material belonging to this department, together with the
collections of South American aboriginal pottery, and of the extensive
collections from the mounds, which have for many years been accumu-
lating in the archeological hall of the Smithsonian building, and have
now been transferred to the custody of this department, have com-
pletely filled the northwest court.

A special feature of this exhibitiou hall is the case, 260 feet long and
4 teet 8 inches deep. This is in two compartments throughout, that in
the rear being used for the storage of the duplicate and unassorted col-
lection of American pottery.

The value of these collections is practically inestimable, since even
the modern tribes, who are still making pottery similar in its general
character to that which is here preserved, have deteriorated to such a
14 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

degree in their artistic capacity or skill, that their products are not
therefore an exponent of their original artistic capabilities. So exhaust-
ive and monographic is this collection that any thorough study of Ameri-
can aboriginal pottery must of necessity in great part be based upon
this collection.

In addition to his administrative work, Mr. Holmes, the curator, has
been engaged in the preparation of a monograph of a number of collec-
tions from the Province of Chiriqui, in Colombia, and in investigating
the influence of textile decoration upon the ornamentation of pottery.

The collections made under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology
in the Mississippi Valley by Dr. Cyrus Thomas are deserving of special
mention, as well as those of Col. James Stevenson and Mr. E. W. Nel-
son in the Pueblo country of the Southwest.

The number of specimens in the collection is estimated at 25,000, and
during the year 3,234 entries were made in the catalogues,

DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY.

The system of classification in this department is (1) by material, all
objects of stone being placed together, as also of copper, shell, horn,
clay, bone, and wood; (2) by form and function, thus, stone pestles,
arrow-heads, knives ete., are placed together; (3) by development, in
order to show the gradual progression from the crudest to the most
perfect form.

The total number of accessions has been 2,751, and the more impor-
tant of these are treated of on a geographical basis in the report on this
department.

The reserve series includes more than 40,000 specimens.

In addition to the general collection, there is a special or “ local”
collection, in which sets of objects obtained from separate localities, such
as a single grave, mound, or village site, are installed together.

During the year one hundred and nineteen of these special collec-
tions have been placed on exhibition. This form of special collection
is becoming of great importance in the department.

Through the co-operation of the Bureau of Ethnology a large amount
of valuable material has been obtained from West Virginia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Ohio, Illinois, Tennessee, Wisconsin, and Arkansas.

Dr. Rau is engaged upon the preparation of an illustrated work on
North American pre-historic relics, whichis designed to serve as a guide
for visitors to the department, and as an explanation of the terminology
of North American archeology. This will bear the title “A Classifica-
tion of the North American Pre-historic Relics in the U.S. National
Museum.”

No less than 3,667 specimens have been added to the exhibition and
study series during the year, making a total of 40,281 specimens in this
series. The duplicate collection numbers nearly 9,000 specimens. Dur-
ing the year 647 catalogue entries were made,

,
od

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 1)

DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY.
DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS.

The administrative work of the department has been directed mainly
to the preparation for an entire re- arrangement of the exhibition series.
Twenty new specimens have been placed on exhibition during the year.
There have been made 407 entries in the catalogue of the department,
the majority of the accessions having been received from the Central
Park Menagerie, in New York City, the Zoological Gardens at Phila-
delphia, and Barnum’s Menagerie.

The entire collection, with the exception of the shrew-mole (Soricide),
has been studied and identified, and a card catalogue of the skins and
alcoholic specimens, which now amount to 7,451, has been completed.
A repert was prepared during the year upon the mammals collected by
i. W. Nelson and C. L. McKay in Alaska. Mr. F. W. True, curator, has
in progress extensive investigations on American cetaceans, and is at
present engaged upon a revision of the dolphins. During the year Mr.
True visited various points on the coast of North Carolina, to study the
dolphin and porpoise fisheries. He has continued his studies upon the
toothed whales, and in connection with the comparison of skulls of the
American species of lynx discovered cranial differences between Lynx
canadensis and Lynx rufus. He has also made a new study of the kan-
garoo rats.

In the spring of 1886 Mr. William T. Hornaday, chief taxidermist,
was sent by the Smithsonian Institution to Montana for the purpose of
obtaining skins and skeletons of buffalo, now on the verge of extinction.

DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS.

An important part of the administrative work of this department has
been the extension of the collections by means of exchange. Two thou-
sand five hundred and eighty-one specimens have been sent out through
exchange, and a full equivalent has been received. Altogether 4,147
specimens have been added to the collection during the year, the largest
contribution having been made by the Fish Commission steamer Alba-
tross, in the Bahamas, consisting of 1,000 specimens and about 75 species,
5 of which were new to science. Exchanges have been completed with
the Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, in Paris, representing 86 specimens, 79
species, from Madagascar and Cochin China; with the British Museum,
235 specimens, 179 species, from India and Europe; with the Mexican
Geographical Exploring Expedition, 135 specimens, 75 species; and with
Count Hans von Berlepsch, of Miinden, Germany, 60 specimens, 50
species, of South American birds.

More than half of the mounted collection has been transferred to ex-
hibition stands of the improved standard recently adopted. The final
labelling of the exhibition series has been deferred by delays at the
Government Printing Office, and advantage has been taken of the delay
to revise the labels in order that they may accord with the order of
16 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

classification adopted by the American Ornithologists’ Union, which is
described in the report of the curator, Mr. hidgway.

Many important groups have been received for special critical revis-
ion, notably the various Procellarian genera distrelata and Puffinus,
and the genera Collinus, Larus, Lagopus, and Empidonax. Dr. Stejne-
ger has continued his revisions of Japanese ornithology.

An important research completed during the year was that upon the
birds of Mexico, made by Professor Ferrari-Perez, of the Geographical
Exploring Expedition of Mexico, who brought to Washington for the
purpose the entire collection of birds in the National Museum of Mexico.
Professor Ferrari-Perez’s report was based upon the studies of the two
national collections, and has been published in the Proceedings of the
National Museum.*

There are now 55,945 specimens in the collection, of which 7,000 have
been set apart for exhibition. The exhibition series might advantage-
ously be made to include 15,000 specimens if space permitted

SECTION OF BIRDS’ EGGS.

Much has been accomplished during the year by Capt. C. EK. Bendire,
U.S. Army, honorary curator, in the classification and arrangement of
the collection of eggs and nests. The collection includes about 44,000
speczmens, of which 1,491 are on exhibition, 31,124 are in the reserve
series, and 11,548 are duplicate. More than 2,550 additions, in 253 lots,
have been made during the year. It is to be hoped that before long
it may be possible to give more space to this crowded collection. Cap-
tain Bendire has, as heretofore, made generous contributions from his
private collection.

DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS.,

The collections in this department are very inadequately provided
with space, either for reserve or exhibition purposes. The collection,
still under the honorary curatorship of Dr. H. C. Yarrow, U.S. Army,
includes about 25,350 specimens, which represent nearly every species
of North American reptiles and batrachiauns.

Prof. EX. D. Cope has in preparation, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, a report on the reptiles of North America, and has
made a large number of identifications and deseriptions. He has also
completed his report on the Batrachia of North America, and identified
all the undetermined batrachians in the collection.

During the year 444 entries, including 1,705 specimens, were made
in the catalogue of the department.

DEPARTMENT OF FISHES.
The curator, Dr. I. H. Bean, has re-examined the entire collection, now

including some 75,000 specimens. No less than twenty-five barrels of
alcohol were used in refilling’the bottles and replacing the old alcohol.

* Vol.. 1x, pp. 125-199.

.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. LT

Nearly 15,000 specimens have been set aside for arrangement into sets
for distribution and exchange. During the year, 662 entries have been
made in the catalogue, bringing the total number of entries up to 37,-
393.

Muceh of the curator’s time has been consumed by his work as editor
of the Proceedings and Bulletins, and during the year Bulletins 23, 28,
29, 30, and 31, were sent to press under his editorial supervision.

The customary amount of special research has been carried on, and
several reports upon special collections have been made. Considerable
time has been devoted by Dr. Bean and myself to the preparation of
a report upon the extensive deep-sea collections of the U.S. Fish Com.
mission, aud those obtained by Mr. Alexander Agassiz in connection
with the work of the U. 8S. Coast Survey.

The work of this department was, during the months of August and
September, 1885, transferred to the Fish Commission headquarters at
Wood’s Holl, where all of the deep-sea collections were concentrated,
overhauled, classified, and catalogued, and a considerable amount of
systematic investigation carried on, a portion of the results of which
have already been made public, and the remainder, it is hoped, will soon
appear in &@ monograph of the deep-sea fish fauna of the Eastern At-
lantic, now for some years in preparation.

The ease with which this extensive collection was handled in the large
rooms which were available for the purpose at Wood’s Holl, offers an
illustration of the great need for the better accommodation of the fish
collection in Washington. Work was finished in a few weeks at Wood’s
Holl which would have occupied four or five months in the cramped
work-rooms in the Museum.

DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS (INCLUDING CENOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS).

Under the curatorship of Mr. W. H. Dall, the department of mollusks
has made extensive progress during the year, especially in the matter
of cataloguing and arranging material which has accumulated in past
years. The number of catalogue entries was 18,638, representing be-
tween fifty and sixty thousand specimens. Oniy about four times as
many entries had been made during the preceding twenty years.

The classification and systematic arrangement of accessions received
in previous years, especially the Jeffries and Stearns collections, have
received special attention.

Among the named species received, which were found to be of more
than ordinary interest, were 71 from Bering Sea, a small series of land
and fresh-water shells from Manitoba, and a very fine series of Mada-
gascar land shells. As in previous years, the U. S. Fish Commission
made by far the most important contributions to the collection.

A beginning has been made in public exhibition, by placing on view
an experimental case containing the chief types of Cephalopods, pearls

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2——2
18 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

and pearl formations, cameo shells, and sections showing the internal
structure of various large and ornamental species. A provisional dis-
play of the principal economic mollusks of North America has also been
made. Under the supervision of Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, adjunct curator,
an exhibit of the edible mollusks from the Atlantic and Pacific, of or-
namental species from tropical seas, and of land and fresh-water spe-
cies, has been installed. There is no room at present for the exhibition
ef the general collection.

The work of the curator and his assistants has consisted chiefly in
the identification of specimens for teachers and others in various parts
of the United States; the identitication and classification of the recent
or living mollusks of the Atlantic coast of North America, as well as
those of the Antillean-Caribbean region ; and the arrangement of land,
pond, and fluviatile gastropods, as well as the fresh-water Acephala,
for the purposes of comparison and investigation in the matter of geo-
graphical distribution and variation of species as related to and affected
by environmental conditions.

Among the most important cmeestications in progress is that of Mr.
Dall upon the deep-sea mollusks and his studies upon the Quaternary
mollusean fauna of the United States; and the continuation of pre-
vious investigations by Dr. Stearns on the geographical distribution
of the land and fresh-water mollusks of North America and the varia-
tion of the same, as related to and affected by the physical characters of
their environment.

DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS.

This department was organized three years ago, but little has hitherto
been attempted beyond the preservation of the collections; Dr. C. V.
Riley, the honorary curator, having been without an aid. An assistant
curatorship, to which Mr. John B. Smith has been appointed, was estab-
lished at the beginning of this year, and additional accommedations in
the laboratory and exhibition hall have been provided, thus permitting
an important extension of the study and exhibition series.

In October Dr. C. V. Riley formally presented to the Museum his ex-
tensive private collection of North American insects, containing over
115,000 pinned specimens, representing over 20,000 species. This col-
lection is the result of his labors in collecting and study for more than
twenty-five years.

It is estimated that there are now at least 500,000 specimens in the
collection.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19

The following table shows the estimated numbers of the pinned and
mounted specimens in the collection:

soxes. | Specimens. | Species.

ELV MECNOPLOla, .o- sae cece ones scrieeclsscoen <cccess ~~ 66 24, 796 2, 650
WOlEOM relay cases a nee selec ae cccjceteneciesiessa!sese> 127 43, 613 6, 558
TSS MICO Plena oats selena a cee ater anta aye sas a 12 338, 17, 098 2, 308
PONCE <= 2 cae aaa. < ons mals we clo eaeietse ts seciss.crciese 21 5, 646 699
ISI OU) 0 RAS 66 GE OS ReeeIeR BBO oS OCOmOS COCR eS 59 8, 862 1,184
Orphopterass sso sq onic 5.012 t coe eeeeecse ss Soecc- 64 6, 903 560
INGUTOD UCLA = eee scieicios osini~ cid «= — ce eeeeieee ec sie oe oe 5 14 868 169
Arachnidaand Myriapoda-= 2. tence cscces wasecccia.s 2 425 110
IMS0GU- ALCDILECLUIC! x25. 2.2 sc5 fal R soe 50s nc.0 c's 16 1, 080 178
Miscellaneous (not yet arranged). ..---.-----..----- 28 1,610 178
Callsrandecall insects -5.- .22.u Joe ee aM oes oie noe 31 4,152 734

Pity ed pee terre oe we aoc Salem seein atte |e cern 766 115, 053 15, 328

In addition to these pinned specimens, the collection contains some
nineteen large boxes of alcoholic material, chiefly of the adolescent
states of insects, comprising some 2,850 vials, in many cases several
species being contained ina single vial. The collection contains a large
number of undescribed species in all orders.

The early states of the minuter insects are mounted in balsam on slides
(1 by 3 inches), of which the collection contains upward of 3,000, most
of the slides holding the contents of three cover glasses.

The mounted material is contained for the most part in double-folding
boxes in book form, about 32 by 22 by 8 centimeters, lined on both sides
with cork and paper.

A certain proportion of the boxes are less than 7 centimeters wide, and
are lined only on one side. There are also two cabinets, one with sixteen
large, glass-covered drawers, and another (now at Dr. Riley’s residence)
of sixty glass-covered drawers. The specimens are all duly classified
and labeled, and in excellent order and preservation. The labels in-
clude notes as to locality and food habit, and are also in many cases
numbered to correspond to detailed notes as to adolescent states and
habits.

The collection was begun twenty-five years ago, and represents Dr.
Riley’s continuous collectings since, including his own types and many of
other authors received inexchange. Itembraces few exotic species, and
is more particularly rich in biological material, containing more blown
and alcoholic larves and pupe in connection with their imagos than per-
haps any other collection of North American insects. Including the
unarranged and alcoholic material not connected with the pinned speci-
mens, there are over 20,000 species in the collection.

The curator has continued his work in re-arranging and perfecting
different families in several orders, particularly among the micro-lepi-
doptera.
20 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES,

By far the largest part of the material received by this department
was obtained by the U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, while en-
gaged in making extensive explorations along the entire eastern coast
of North America from the Grand Bank of Newfoundland to southern
Florida and the Bahamas. The results of this exploration were of great
value, since a large part of the region visited had never been systemati-
cally investigated before. Over two hundred and fifty successful hauls
were made with the dredge and the trawl-net. Among important dona-

_tions from other sources were a fine series of deep-sea soundings from
the Southern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, made by the U.S. steamer
Enterprise, and large collections from the western and northwestern
coasts of America and Siberia. A most interesting series of microscopi-
cal preparations of nearly two hundred species of British sponges, mainly
described or identified by Dr. Bowerbank, was supplied by the Rev. A.
M. Norman, a distinguished English naturalist.

The collection of Echini, or Sea Urchins, has now been completely
identified and arranged for reference and study. Of this group the
Museum possesses 152 species, many of which are represented by ex-
tensive series of specimens covering a wide range of distribution.

The curator has continued his studies of the parasitic copepoda of the
Atlantic coast. He has also revised the collection of star-fishes, and
thorovghly overhauled the species collected by the U.S. Fish Commis-
sion on the Atlantic coast north of Cape Hatteras.

Work upon the collection of Ophiurans has been continued by the
Hon. Theodore Lyman, who is at present engaged in studying the ma-
terial obtained by the Albatross south of Cape Hatteras, and that from
the western coast of North America, including Alaska.

The number of catalogue entries during the year has been 7,074, a
single entry often representing hundreds of specimens. The total num-
ber of specimens at present in the collection is estimated at 550,000.

DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.

The development of the osteological collection has been the chief
work undertaken by the acting curator, Mr. True.

Mr. Lueas has rendered most efficient service in the development and
arrangement of the collection. It has been the desire of the curator,
to obtain a series of skeletons of thoroughbred domestic animals, and”
several specimens representing the important breeds of dogs have been
obtained.

The number of catalogue entries during the year, embracing birds,
mamunals, fishes, reptiles, and batrachians, was 1,017. The total num-
ber of specimens in the collection is now 10,210. A card catalogue of
the skeletons of the mammals has been completed.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ya

.
DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (Paleozoic).

This department is under the charge of Mr. C. D. Walcott, of the U.
S. Geological Survey. The collection now includes over 80,000 speci-
mens, of which perhaps one-third has been transferred by the U.S.
Geological Survey to the Museum. During his connection with the
Museum Mr. Walcott has thoroughly arranged this material. A very
interesting series has been selected for exhibition, although up to the
present time it has been impracticable to place any material upon view.

The curator has been engaged in a special research, in behalf of the
U.S. Geological Survey, upon the stratigraphy and paleontology of
the Cambrian system of North America.

Prior to the year 1854 the increase in the material of this depart-
ment had been irregular, owing to the lack of time and means at the dis-
posal of the curator; during that year, however, Mr. Walcott intro-
duced a thorough system of classification, and began the formation of a
systematic collection of Cambrian fossils.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (Mesozoic).

The principai accessions to the collection have been those received
from the U. S. Geological Survey. The curator, Dr. C. A. White, re-
ports that a total number of 1,563 entries were made in the catalogue
during the year. Among the accessions of special interest was a col-
lection of Cretaceous fossils froin Mexico, and another of Lower Creta-
ceous and Jurassic from France. The total number of specimens in the
collection at present is 69,742.

Steady progress has been made in the work of arrangement and
classification ; and the collection is now accessible for purposes of study.
The provisional arrangement which has been adopted, is purely strati-
graphical; though a broad biological classification under each geological
period has been attempted. Mr. J. B. Marcou has re-identified all the
type specimens, and has published a catalogue of these in the Proceed-
ings of the Museum.*

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (Cenozoic. )

Since the transfer of Mr. W. TL. Dall from the Coast Survey to the
U.S. Geological Survey, in which he is now serving as paleontologist
in charge of the later formations, this department has been organized.
It is, nowever, really inseparable from the department of mollusks, of
which Mr. Dall has long been curator.

DIVISION OF BOTANY.
DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL AND RECENT PLANTS.

The attention of the curator of these two departments, Prof. Lester
I’. Ward, of the Geological Survey, has been directed chiefly toward
the study of the fossil plants: his sketch of the history and present

* Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vu, 1825, pp. 290-344.

22 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

e

condition of fossil botany, published in the Fifth Annual Report of the
Director of the Geological Survey, gives an excellent idea of the char-
acter of the work which he has undertaken to accomplish in connection
with the National Museum collections.

The work of classification and arrangement has progressed, and the
herbarium of recent plants is now estimated at not less than 30,000
specimens: while that of fossil plants includes 7,439 specimens.

Dr. IF. V. Havard contributed large and valuable collections of plants
from Texas and the adjacent States and Territories, containing the
types of his report on the “Flora of Western and Southern Texas,” pub-
lished in the Proceedings of the National Museum.*

A card catalogue of the Joad collection of plants from the Old World,
recently acquired from the Royal Botanical Garden at Kew, has been
completed. This collection contains over 10,000 species, 9,000 of which
were new to the Museum.

DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.
DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS.

Under the direction of Prof. F. W. Clarke, the department of minerals
is now making rapid progress. During the year exchanges have been
carried on with private collectors and with a number of public mu-
seums, among which may be mentioned the Ecole des Mines, at Paris;
the Musée @’Annecy, in Savoy; the University of Sydney, Australia ;
and that of Amherst College. The total number of specimens received
during the year was 800.

Nearly 4,500 of the 18,401 specimens constituting the collection of the
Museum, are now on exhibition. Especial attention has been devoted
to the development of the collection of gems and ornamental stones.

In connection with his official duties as chemist of the Geological
Survey, the curator has been. enabled to accomplish much scientific
work upon the Museum collections. He has made a study of the min-
erals received from Litchfield, Me., and the turquoise from New Mexico,
and is at present investigating the chemical structure of the silicates
and preparing a revision of the borates, and is also making a full series
of analyses of tourmaline.

DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY.

Although the increase of material in this department has not been
very great, during the year the number of catalogue entries has been
1,021.

The exhibition series has increased, and all the available cases are
now filled. Much attention has been devoted to the preparation of the
exhibition series and accompanying labels and to the completion of the
study series.

*Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1885, pp. 449-533.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. yi

Among the more important accessions have been several relief maps
received from the Geological Survey, a collection of rocks and building
stones from Mexico, a series of the rocks of Continental Hurope, and a
series of typical marbles and building stones from South Carolina, ete,

There are several groups of exhibition specimens in process of prepara-
tion, among them being a structural series, a lithological series, and a
series of building and ornamental stones. These are in part on exhibi-
tion, though not in their proper places in the systematic collection.

The curator, Mr. Merrill, is engaged in investigations upon the min-
eralogy of the District of Columbia, the origin and nature of fulgurites,
and the durability of building stones, besides carrying on studies on
local petrography; and has just completed a catalogue of the collection
of building stones now in the Museum.

The total number of specimens in the collection is estimated at
20,647, of which 17,647 belong to the reserve series. Of the latter num-
ber 5,313 are on exhibition, 2,730 being specimens of building and orna-
mental stones, and 1,829 belonging to the educational series of rocks
and rock-forming minerals. There are, also, in the collection 3,400
thin sections of rocks prepared for microscopic study. Of these nearly
200 have been added during the year.

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY.

Owing to the fact that so great a mass of material is already assignod
this department, which is under the curatorship of Mr. F. P. Dewey, it
has not been considered wise to solicit additional collections, although
much has been received Quring the year.

The specia! attention of the curator has been given to the arrange-
ment and classification of the mass of material received from the Insti-
tute of Mining Engineers, part of which arrived during this year.

The preparation of the exhibition series has been going steadily for-
ward, and a portion has been placed on exhibition as a preliminary dis-
play. The curator has commenced the preparation of a descriptive cata-
logue of the systematic collections, to serve as a guide to visitors.

Yor three years past the curator has been employed in an investiga-
tion of the physical properties of coke, and has published a paper upon
the porosity and specific gravity of different kinds of this material.

The total number of specimens in the collection is estimated at 48,000,
of which 17,000 are on exhibition. During the year 5,506 entries were
made, including 8,552 specimens.
24 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

D.—REVIEW OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WORK OF THE
YEAR.

It will be evident from what has already been said that marked -
progress has been made in the arrangement and identification of the
material in the custody of the staff curators. At no time in the history
of the Museum has classification and installation received so much
attention. For the past five years the Museum staff has been overbur-
dened with the preparation of exhibits for Berlin, London, New Orleans,
Louisville, and Cincinnati, and although much valuable material, which
would otherwise have been lost to the Museum, has been obtained, it is
equally true that during those years the progress of the Museum ae
proper has been necessarily made subservient, and has been seriously
impeded.

The reports of the curators indicate that better progress has been
made in the development of the exhibition series in the past than in
any previous year. The systematic arrangement of many of the collec-
tions has been commenced, and although much yet remains to be done
in the installation and labelling of specimens, the general appearance of
the public halls is far more satisfactory than ever before. In the three
geological departments this advance is especially manifest; as well as
in that of comparative anatomy.

The Museum may well be congratulated upon this progress, for there is
no reason to doubt that the systematic arrangement of all the collections
will, during the next fiscal year, make still greater headway.

The advance of the work has given an opportunity for much experi-
ence in methods of installation and labelling, and the principles of ad-
ministration which have been tentatively laid down in previous reports
have been brought still further into experimental practice. It is still the
belief of our administrators that there are certain cardinal principles
which must be considered in the arrangement of collections in public
museums. Each object should illustrate an idea, and no two objects
should be shown, which illustrate the same idea in a similar manner.
Further than fe: the idea to be illustrated should be explained on the
label in such a manner that any intelligent visitor, without previous
special knowledge of the subject, may ke able to learn why the object
is shown and what lesson it is intended to teach. The objects, also,
should be so carefully classified that their relations to each other may
be recognized by the visitor, so that, taken together, they suggest cer-
tain general conclusions; and in arriving at them the visitor should be
aided by certain general or collective labels, which should be supple-
mented, where practicable, by guide-books and manuals containing all
the information upon the labels, arranged systematically and illustrated
by engravings of the more important objects.

The study series includes those specimens which are not placed upon
exhibition, but are retained in the laboratories or stored in the unit tables
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Pag)

in the exhibition halls. This series is kept for purposes of comparison
and study, oras a basis for the preparation of monographic treatises.
Numerous applications have been received for the loan of specimens in
the Museum, constituting types of the species, and as on several occa-
sions in previous years type specimens have been lost or otherwise de-
stroyed whilst in the hands of the borrower, it has been found absolutely
necessary to impose very strict limitations upon the sending away of
type specimens... Free access is allowed to specialists in the examina-
tion of these specimens in the laboratories, but no type specimens are
now sent toindividuals. Formalapplications by the authorities of other
museums are always, when possible, favorably responded to. In this
connection a circular (No. 35) has recently been issued. It reads:
Type specimens will in future not be sent outof the National Museum
for purposes of study, except to officers of scientific institutions or so-
cieties who shali charge themselves with the responsibility of their safe-
keeping and return.

This action on the part of the Museum is in no way intended to act
asan obstacle to those engaged in scientific pursuits, but is a necessary
step in order to insure the finding of any given types when desired for
study.

1. PROGRESS OF GENERAL AND INCIDENTAL WORK.
LIBRARY.

The work of the library has been carried on without any important
changes from the methods employed in the previous year: it is, how-
ever, becoming yearly more serviceable to the scientific staff of the
Muuseum, as is shown by the fact that the number of books borrowed
during the year is greater than ever before.

The total number of books and pamphlets received during the year
was 2,424 (exclusive of regular periodicals). Of these, 1,372, or more
than one-half, were books selected from the extensive accessions of the
Smithsonian Institution te be retained at this library, while the rest
were sent to the Library of Congress.

As usual, the chief contributor has been Professor Spencer F. Baird,
to whom the library is indebted for 37 volumes, 192 pamphlets, and 2
maps.

Another important gift was that of Mr. J..C. Brevoort, of New York,
which consisted of 16 volumes and 144 pamphlets, almost entirely on
ichthyological subjects, and many of them of great value. Among
other contributions the most important are those from Mr. Robert
Ridgway, U. 8. National Museum, 52 pamphlets; the Smithsonian
Institution, 5 volumes, 25 pamphlets; the Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences, 10 volumes, 20 pamphlets; and the U. 8S. Geological Survey,
9 volumes and 2 pamphlets.

The periodical department of the library contains more or less com-
plete sets of 570 periodicals, chiefly the proceedings of learned societies
26 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

and scientific serials. A systematic effort is being made with the co-
operation of the Smithsonian Institution to fill up incomplete files and
add new periodicals by means of exchange.

A slight change has been made in the method of keeping the record
of books lent and returned. The “ledger by borrowers” has been
discontinued, and, in place of it, the receipts or ‘ call-cards,” signed by
the borrowers, are carefully filed, thus serving to show what books each
borrower has in his possession. On the return of a book, the card is
returned to the borrower, and the entry on the “ ledger ef books issued”
is cancelled. This plan has been found more efficacious than the old
system, since by substituting two entries for three, one possible source
of error is eliminated. The number of books borrowed during the year
was 3,867.

The card catalogue, by authors. has been continued as in previous
years. The total number of books catalogued during the year was
2,923, of which 553 were volumes of more than one hundred pages, and
the remainder pamphlets.

The library is especially rich in scientific pamphlets, particularly
authors’ “extras” of their publications in scientific periodicals ; and it
is particularly important that this collection should be extended.

The work of putting the pamphlets into covers was begun in Mareh;
and at the end of the year, 1,706 pamphlets had been thus bound.

The library is still in great need of money for the purchase of the
latest editions of books of reference. Its most pressing necessity, how-
ever, is more room for the large and constantly increasing number of
periodicals.

EXCHANGES AND DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES.

The customary distribution of duplicate specimens has been continued
during the year. The importance of this work was well character-
ized by Professor Baird in his report to the Secretary of the Institution
in 1861: “* When it is considered that all these [specimens] have been
named and labelled by naturalists admitted to be of the highest anthority
in their respective departments, and that all have thereby the character
and value of types, many of them belonging to species first described
from Smithsonian specimens, or serving as the materials of elaborate
monographs, it will be readily understood how much their systematic
and judicious distribution by the Institution all over the world must
conduce to the advancement of science.”

The extent of the work is shown by the table here presented. Of the
118 distributions included in the table, 41 were to foreign institutions
and individuals. .
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. yA |

Table showing the nature of duplicate material distributed between July, 1885, and July,

1886.

Objects. Species. | Specimens.

EIS NGS ates race iis seen cen Bon ee ie sa win ite Ma clsice e oti fc, ee 5 14 26
TRO ULOL ee era are, bale Seid pci os: felb cn ipa tne ies val cote ae disic eelseicitod | com ate esas 626
RIGS SUL Gp See ee Rae cae a Ss aay SE Re ain /a csie winis- amie aim invas|ts eae ateiee 42
1 CaS Re =| ies SR ee Se eG 3 38 2 295 759
PONNOLOMY sao ase eo ccsc'ee sme Meet sestnclcs of aeloncocSsccl | ise lee eee 1, 453
PAC NG OO CY ate Base a doin oc a EE ee cis arse crce,eletciel a wba leeches a 241
Ren yi so sd os a cn eee eGleatend <daadss 318 1, 862
Marine invertebrates, 32 sets...... ...... -..0 cece +. ne oe eee - 200 18, 000
Misco OOUS ot 22.< Sa ves oo55 26 Seek en le hoe ce oceine dias baeieee es 61 260
La i a eee ees ca aos os cos SR Ue cise ee reins ee misins Hace eee ale cea ie one 49
INO (EC pe ae Pe ee eee 145 221
MUTANS Sat es Se se Soc ec cee eae eee eee ee 61 93
Ae SOSTOIHUIS MOS te cess sya lees eee ee ae Sea en eee es 12 12
IROMUMc wee mae Meee east se koa: ee we cme aaa eee een nine ee = ai 7
SIGSTOP ae tia a Sisters ooo ae ers ey Sie SS seperate 331
Totalanmber OF SPeCiINIENS 022 sac eset sce lene loco eae |boe coos 23, 987

The number of applications for drawings and photographs of the
standard styles of cases used in the Museum, which have been favorably
acted upon during the year, has been 115. In addition, 57 sample cases
and drawers have been lent to colleges and other institutions desirous
of examining their construction, with a view to adopting similar forms
in their own museums and laboratories.

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, from which
were received valuable coilections of birds and other natural history
objects, requested to be supplied with a full series of papers, working-
drawings, etc., in connection with the operations of the Museum. In
response to this request, a box was forwarded, containing thirteen eyano-
types of working-drawings of Museum cases, sixteen photographs of
cases, a complete set of blanks and circulars used in the administration
of the Museum, together with a set of Museum circulars and plans of
the Museum buildings. The Smithsonian Institution and U. S. Fish
Commission also sent specimens of blanks and circulars.

The preparation of aset of casts of fishes and reptiles for the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, in New York, was commenced and
partially completed during the year.

In October, 1885, the preparation of a duplicate collection of building-
stones for the museum above referred to, was completed. This task
was undertaken in continuation of an engagement entered into be-
tween the American Museum of Natural History and the late Dr. George
W. Hawes, while in charge of the collection of building-stones in the
Museum and of the work of gathering material for the Tenth Census.

Poreign exchanges.—Exchanges have been made with several foreign
museums and institutions. Nine mammal skins have been received from
28 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

the Australian Museum, Sydney. An extensive exchange of ethnologi-
cal material is being arranged with the ethnological department of the
Royal Museum of Berlin. Negotiations for an exchange of mammals,
birds and insects with the Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, are in
progress. Thirty-five species of Jamaican fishes have been received
from the Public Museum of the Institute of Jamaica. From the Cana-
dian Geological Survey have been received 67 species of Cambrian fos-
sils; and skeletons of Python molurus and Cercopithecus rufo-viridis, a
specimen of Pentacrinus and a set of marine invertebrates have been
sent in exchange. M. Charpy,* director of the Musée d’Annecy, An-
necy, Haute-Savoie, France, has sent four boxes of minerals, rocks, fos-
sils, and shells, etc., and an equivalent in Ohio and Cincinnati Silurian
fossils has been promised in exchange. The museum has sent to the
Auckland Museum, New Zealand, large collections of ethnological ma-
terial, bird-skins, ores, and minerals, and has received in exchange 104
specimens of New Zealand bird-skins. An offer of ethnologieal material
has been made to Mr. 8S. H. Drew, of Wanganui, New Zealand, in ex-
change for marine invertebrates, fresh-water shells and fossils. From
the Ecole des Mines, Paris, has been received a collection of French
minerals, in exchange for which 71 specimens of United States minerals
have been sent. Dr. Julius von Haast, director of the Canterbury
Museum, Christ Church, New Zealand, has sent 7 fine specimens oi
nephrite, and has received a set of marine invertebrates. Dr. von Haast
has promised to collect skeletons of whales and seais for the National
Museum, and has offered a series of New Zealand timbers, for which
ethnological material has been promised. Extensive exchanges have
been conducted with several of the musées under the direction of the
Ministére de V’Instruction Pablique, Paris. Six boxes of ethnological
material were sent in August, 1885, and a number of casts of Indian
heads in March, 1886, to the Trocadéro Museum. The Minister of Pab-
lic Instruction has recently announced the transmission of 9 vases, from
the Manufacture Nationale de Sévres, 8 pieces of tapestry from the
Manufacture Nationale des Gobelins, and some specimens of tapestry
work from the Manufacture Nationale de Beauvais. An exchange of
birds, fishes, and shells is being arranged with the Imperial Zoological
Museum of the Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia. Negotia-
tions are pending with Dr. F. R. Jentink, director of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, Leiden, Holland, for an exchange of mammals
from the East Indies and Africa, for American birds, reptiles, fishes,
and marine invertebrates. Collections of mammal skins and skulls,
materia medica, and reptiles have at various times been received from
the Kurrachee Municipal Library and Museum (James A. Murray, cura-
tor), in exchange for which 390} specimens of birds and 24 mammals
have been sent.

*Deceased. fal
tTwo hundred and seventy-eight of these were transmitted in 1881.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29

Bird skins have been exchanged with M. Milne Edwards,* of the
Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris.

Dr. T. Jeffrey Parker, Otago University Museum, Dunedin, New
Zealand, has offered fishes, and desires American species in return.
Negotiations are pending for an exchange of ethnological material with
Signor L. Pigorini, director Museo Preistorico-Etnografico, Rome, Italy.
A series of textile fabrics (manufactured and raw) has been sent to
Count Ito, minister of the Imperial household department, Tokyo, Japan,
for the Japanese Government. Four boxes of Japanese porcelains have
been received from the Educational Department in Tokyo. An exchange
of mammal skins has been effected with Prof. Tycho Tullberg, Upsala,
Sweden, and an offer of birds and marine invertebrates in return for
similar material has been made by the National Museum.

Seventeen mammal skins have been received from Dr. C. W. de Vis,
director of the Queensland Museum, Brisbane, Australia. Specimens
in exchange are being prepared for shipment. Dr. de Vis also offers a
foetus and skeleton of dugong in exchange for a manatee. This offer
is now under consideration. Mr. L. Wray, jr., curator of the Perak
Government Museum, Perak, Straits Settlements, has offered to present
mammals, and to exchange tin-sand and wash-dirt from Perak tin-mines
for mineralogical or geological specimens from the United States.

Extensive exchanges have been arranged with Prof. Fernando Fer-
rari Perez, of the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Expedition.

PUBLICATIONS.

Fhe eighth volume of the Proceedings has not yet appeared, although
the last signature is dated December 7, 1885. A list of the signatures
of this volume is given in Part Iv of this report.

During the year Bulletins 25, 28, 29 and 30 were issued, and are briefly
reviewed here.

Bulletin 25 forms Part 11 of ‘ Bibliographies of American Natural-
ists,” and is.entitled PUBLISHED WRITINGS OF ISAAC LEA, LL. D., by
Newton Pratt Scudder, Svo., pp. lix + 278. The list of writings is pre-
ceded by a biographical sketch. The bibliography is arranged chrono-
logically. <A list of genera and species, discussed and described, is ar-
ranged alphabetically ; in addition there is a general index.

The collections of the National Museum were largely increased by
gifts from Dr. Lea’s collections, and his writings are based, in large
part, upon this and other material belonging to the National Museum.

Bulletin 28. A MANUAL OF NORTH AMERICAN LAND SHELLS, by
~W.G. Binney, 8vo., pp. 528.

This bulletin is an enlarged edition of a work entitled “The land and
Freshwater Shells of North America, Part 1,” published by the Smith-

* Before completion of this exch: mge M. Milne Edwards died, and the negotiations
were continued with M. Oustalet.

StU REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

sonian Institution in 1869. More attention is given in the present work
to the subjects of geographical distribution, organs of generation, lin-
gual dentition, and classification; and species are grouped geograph-
ically.

sulletin 29. “RESULTS OF ORNITHOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN
THE COMMANDER ISLANDS AND IN KAMTSCHATKA,” by Leonhard
Stejneger; 8 vo., p. 382; 8 colored plates and map.

This work is the result of the author’s explorations in the Commander
Islands and in Kamtschatka, and contains the conclusions at which he
has arrived after careful examination of the avifauna of that region, his
investigations being based both upon material observed and colleeted
by himself, and also upon specimens in the collection of the National
Museum. This bulletin consists of three sections: (1) A review of the
species of birds collected or observed by the author at the Commander
Islands, and at Petropaulski, Kamtschatka; (2) a synopsis of the birds
reported to inhabit Kamtschatka; and (5) conelusions.

The first section, which occupies the larger portion of the work, con-
tains one hundred and forty descriptions and numerous tables. Be-
sides technical descriptions there are references to the habits of the birds,
and a few illustrations.

The second section, a synopsis of the birds reported to inhabit Kamts-
chatka, contains a iist of one hundred and eighty-six species, an at-
tempt being made to enumerate allthe species which have been recorded
from that place. A few names of species accredited to Kamtschatké
without any reliable authority for the statements, are also included.

The chief sources from which knowledge of the Kamtschatkan ornis
is derived, are the explorations of Steller, Vossnessenski, von Kittlitz,
and Dybowski; and the author has based some of his statements tpon
their writings, as well as upon his own explorations. There is an ap-
pendix to this section, incorporating information from “ Liste des Oiseaux
du Kamtschatka et des iles Commandeutrs par le Dr. B. Dybowski et L.
Taezanowski,” with comments by the author.

The third part—conclusions—is based upon the two preceding sec-
tions of the work. The relations of the avifauna of the peninsula to
that of the islands are briefly discussed, and are exhibited chiefly in the
form of tables giving the circumpolar, palarctic, Pacific, American,
Siberian, East Asiatic, and other forms. The residents and migrants
are deseribed at some length, and are catalogued in tables.

Bulletin 30. BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PUBLICATIONS RELATING TO THE
COLLECTION OF FossiL INVERTEBRATES IN THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL MUSEUM, INCLUDING COMPLETE LISTS OF THE WRITINGS
OF FIELDING B. MEEK, CHARLES A. WHITE, AND CHARLES D. WAL-
corr, by John Belknap Marcon, 8vo., pp. 333.

This Bulletin is third in the series of “ Bibliographies of American
Naturalists,” and consists of four parts: I, A biographical sketch and
list of the published writings of Fielding b. Meek ; 11, Published writ-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. fi

ings of Charles Abiathar White, introduced by a short biographical
sketch; m1, A list of the writings of Charles Doolittle Walcott; tv,
Bibliography of publications based upon the paleontological collec-
tion of the National Museum, by J. W. Bailey, F. A. Conrad, J. D. Dana,
C. G. Ehrenberg, James Hall, Angelo Heilprin, Alpheus Hyatt, Jules
Marcou, J. S. Newberry, D. D. Owen, James Shiel, B. IF’. Shumard, R.
P. Whitfield, and a bibliography of the writings of J. W. Bailey, I’. N.
Nicollett, H. A, Prout, B. F. Shumard.

The manuscript for Bulletin 31: THE NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF
SYRPHID, by S. W. Williston, A. M., M. D., was sent to the Public
Printer on January 11.

In order to insure a more systematic and satisfactory criticism of the
papers offered for publication in the Proceedings and Bulletin, an advi-
sory committee composed of Dr. Bean, chairman, Professor Mason, Dr.
Steineger, Professor Ward and Mr. True, has been appointed to ex-
amine manuscripts offered for publication.

Part Iv of this report contains a statement of the publications of the
Museum during the fiscai year, and also a bibliography of the papers
_ by officers of the Museum, and by other investigators whose writings

are based upon Museum material. The authors of these papers num-
ber 71, 26 of whom are connected with the Museum, 8 being honorary
officers. The papers number 523, aiid are thus distributed under the
following subjects:

; By Mu- | By other
Subjects. seum ofii-]investiga-| Total.
cers. tors.

IN aecI My WIOOICR sa cee n nse do soca co nis dike cipro es ewes 4 0 4
HIS DOUIOSs ses cloald few coe aac sce cS coo eke ede ciacecaed 5 0 5
IEC LO) Ogee eee ant slave anton sie slaps se crate iw ine Stare = 38 0 38
IPAM AIS coca creme nas wails S)o\cln ice icieiw sin Sie wieicivie’nl os eemisisc 9 6 15
SIRO R ES eee ease an ac cee soce oyslocseetcwewleceaaceaacter ol 19 56
UTS HGS Wee ees ee Sasa ae oe eer ercnerscisiceiwiewewcincce oe 12 32 44
WEG WITISISS ee eet cise eR ween Soe tise rath cere e he-e-creee 7 4 11
MISE CUS peat eter 2a aS nicnic Shek wie cc wise Sraete-e aatetevesied 57 a 59
Marine Invertebrates ... .... ..cccc..cccce ----0 eee 6 8 14
Invertebrate Fossils... ... <2. 2 20. boecwe caccce ec cees 4 1 5
LAINIE, ee aa ae eS ae ae ne Pa yg 0 2 2
IWAITIGR ANE see eS feo Solo ee eeecimees ce ecccck scdee de 2 1 2
GH ONO ieee sim ola aia. oim vo wa jenn else wane cia ecSme soc 2 0 2
PVCU PRUNULY: Vi RMe es an whe roo a ee Sa wa oars ow Sewanee ees 3 1 4
LOUIS Ugg oy ane ci oie nl os a ete Ws wa eaelsiaee «2 Ps 1 1 2
Experimental Physiology and Histology.....--..---. 0 17 LZ,
WINCEONG OTD VS ste ahaa ana. w a sic iat occ ns Smtin eime'e oicteins2 19 0 i9
PU URIOOUM ge sees ecta sin nn wsiceemetoee ens cle citc<ccdes i 0 1
Biography and Bibliography .-.. --.-...-.----.----- i 1 2
INDISCENANCOURMtes. ss «occ ceicosSadeemece wens oes ocd dies 19 1 20

ANG) 77) | ALS 2 Re re ee 8 ee a 227 96 323

32 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
VISITORS.
During the year* the number of visitors to the Museum Building has
been 174,225, or an average of: 563 persons each day, and to the Smith-

sonian building $8,960, or an average of 288 each day, as shown in the
following table:

Smith-
Museum .
Ee Building. | 5 emiae,
1885
MUU eieeeiers es aie eee Mei elses foe tices 1a ee ee 12, 509 6, 219
JAG EL Bebe aeloags saa a00 Qs ae S One SB SEA SROe BEBE S65556 255554 12,574 9, 484
Seplember sec secvsances eee ele eee eee be ca os ete s ke Seen 14, 520 8, 313
Octobersesks setae ste ate ewetidig sac ss aeelacisis we adem eerie nee 14, 001 6, 487
ICT US SAE es ee ae eee Ren Noe Sai bs ses 12, 164 5,774
WECEMIDERstacos tess ae ceslne eiclee bind See miahe tiatchaata loa ene epee 15, 463 7,550
1886.
AMM ATs eRe cial ES cia eas IOS, SIRES ate oe ciated Bron re oe eee 12, 057 6, 235
pearly wee eens cement ene enn e mone ones mene nn we eee w ee none i ' Pes 6, iy
EN 91 Sa a oe Fe Ae LS, te Rs ies , 935 4
U0 he Seer Let eA Se See reise en eo ee a Doar 20, 099 9,318
IY LER te aes ae ce ee ee TES Br es ee ee ee he eee elle Palse (Os! 7, 261
UNIO peter octet cane eh ee tis meee aaah s oe bel Sens site ee a eo 14, 471 7, (52
174, 225 88, 960

The total number of visitors to both buildings since the record was
first kept is given below:

Museum (Smithsonian
oe. Building. | Building.

So is Ae ee a ee aS a ate ere ea Rees RIT ate sees is nates #150! O00 Cae eee
TSO eee ee sie tk eek ei el A A oS eee eee +167, 455 152, 744
Re rete oe areca De SAL RE ot Se er ea eer 202, 188 104, 823
ASAD ee eee MONAT RC TONG ees LN Ra eh Da kd, De ei ar AL be 195, 322 91,130
ASE (od ULLULEUTY;—e) UE) ©) ote eres a fee letersi age ee acetal ete 107, 365 60, 438
PBB SOG es es ts cic lates Gu Se ae cio eeleie eine eee ee teeta 174, 225 88, 960
MOIS C2 cee ee se ete ce eet See eae ee eee cenistae 2 meee 996, 485 498, 085

* Estimated on basis of register.
t Estimated on basis of attendance from February 8 to December 31.

STUDENTS AND LECTURES.

As in previous years, all reasonable applications for permission to
study the Museum collections have been granted. Mr. G. F. Matthew
studied the Lower Cambrian fauna of New Brunswick in the Depart-
ment of Paleozoic Invertebrate Fossils. Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Dr. Rh.
W. Shufeldt and others have published pane} based upon Distal

* The Museum was open to the public 3809 days in the year.
t See Part Iv of this report.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33

belonging to the Museum. Mr. R. B. Riggs, under Professor Clarke’s
direction, made full analyses of the lepidolites from Maine, and the ery-
ophyllite and aurite of Rockport, Mass., belonging to the Museum col-
lection, and Mr. George F. Kunz has prepared a description of the col-
lection of gems and ornamental stones.* The material belonging to the
Department of Mollusks which was taken north of Cape Hatteras, has
been retained for study by Prof. A. E. Verrill, at New Haven. During
the winter Prof. E. D. Cope was engaged at the Institution upon special
work, on the collections of reptiles; in the course of which he identi
fied all the undetermined Batrachia in the Department of Reptiles, and
identified and described collections made by the various correspond.
ents of the Institution in Mexico and in Central and South America.
He also completed 659 pages of the report upon the Batrachia of North
America. Mr. H. J. Biddle examined a large series of ores from Mex-
ico and Missouri, and metallurgical specimens acquired for the Museum
at the New Orleans Exposition, making in all 2,400 determinations.
Prof. Fernando Ferrari-Perez, of the Mexican Geographical and Ex-
ploring Commission, at the close of the New Orleans Exposition, and
at the invitation of the Institution, brought to Washington for exami-
nation a large collection of natural history specimens. Every possible
facility was offered him at the Institution for the arrangement and
study of this collection, the curator of birds and the curator of main-
mals assisting him in determining the species. The visit of Professor
Perez resulted beneficially for the Museum, since a large portion of this
collection was given the Museum in exchange for material afterwards
sent him. The curator of birds says concerning the collection of birds
received from the Commission: ‘This exceptionally fine collection, as
regards preparation of the specimens, which had been mounted entirely
from fresh specimens, was of very great interest and benefit to the
department, affording as it did several suggestions of practical value
and much-needed material for study, including no less than five more
or less remarkable new species.” A catalogue of this collection was
prepared by Prof. Ferrari-Perez and was published in Proceedings U.
S. National Museum, Vol. 1x, pp. 125-299.

A number of students were granted permission to associate them-
selves with a department in the Museum as volunteer workers. Lieut.
T. Dix Bolles, U.S. Navy, rendered valuable assistance in the Depart-
ment of Ethnology. Mr. H. H. James was received into the Mineral
Department. Lieut. Charles Barnes, U. 8. R. M., spent a short time in
the osteological laboratory previous to his departure for Texas. In the
taxidermist’s laboratory Mrs. Berdell and Mr. William Crane received
instructions in skinning birds and making bird skins. Mr. E. 5, Lewis
studied in the Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. [ight
pupils have been instructed in Photography: Mr. George P. Merrill,
Mr. J.T. Brown, and Mr. W. Hough, of the Museum; Mr. O. H. Dodge;

*Popular Science Monthly, April, 1886.

H, Mis. 170, pt. 2—3

34 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Lieutenant Winterhalter and Dr. Nash, of the U.S. Navy; Mr. Thomas
Lee, of the U.S. Fish Commission, and Mr. H. L. Turner, of the Geo-
logical Survey. Mr. Dodge has already rendered valuable services in
photography to the Museum. Mr. Merrill has photographed for his
own department numerous stone quarries, mud cracks, drift bowlders,
ete. Irom Mr. Thomas Lee have been received several valuable nega-
tives which he made on the cruise of the Albatross.

The Saturday Lectures, given under the joint auspices of the Anthro-
pological and Biological Societies of Washington, were delivered, as in
previous years, in the Lecture Hall. The programme of the.course was
as follows:

Saturday, March 6.—Mr. WILLIAM HALLock: The Geysers of the Yellowstone.

Friday, March 12.—Prof. WILLIAM Harkness: How the Solar System is Measured,

Saturday, March 30.—Prof. T. C. MENDENNALL: The Nature of Sound.

Saturday, March 27.--Prof. F. W. CLarkre: The Chemistry of Coal.

Saturday, April 3.—Dr. C. Harr MERRIAM: The Migration of Birds.

Saturday, April 10.—Dr. WASHINGTON Matrnews, U. 8. Army: The Gods of the
Navajos.

Friday, April 16.—Dr. D. B. Simmons: Social Status of the Women of Japan.

Saturday, April 24.—Prof. W. K. Brooks: ‘Life.

Saturday, May 1.—Mr. Lester F. Warp: Heredity and Opportunity.

Saturday, May 8.—Dr. J. 8. Bivyines, U. 8. Army: Animal Heat.

(f) MEETINGS OF SOCIETIES.

As in previous years, several societies have availed themselves of the
privilege of using the Lecture Hall for their meetings. These have
been the National Academy of Sciences, the Biological Society of Wash-
ngton, Entomological Society of Washington, and the Meteorologists’
Convention.

Since the papers read at the meetings of these societies have in many
instances related to the work of the Museum, and were illustrated by
Museum specimens, the titles are given below:

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.
(Meetings April 20, 21, 22, 1886.)

G. K. GitBertT.—The Geologie Age of the Equus Fauna. *

T. Strerry Hunt.—The Cowles Electrical Furnace.*

E. D. Copr.—On the Phylogeny of the Batrachia.*

E. D. Corr.—On the Phylogeny of the Placental Mammalia.*

H. A. Newron.—The Comet of Biela.*

Exv1ras Loomis.—Areas of High Barometric Pressure over Europe and Asia.

S. H. Scupprr.—The Cockroach in the past and in the present.t

ALFRED M. Mayrer.—On the diathermancy of Ebonite and Obsidian, and on the
production of Calorescence by means of screens of Ebonite and Obsidian.t

ALFRED M. Mayrr.—On the Coefficient of Expansion of Ebonite.t

ALFrep M. Mayrr.-—On the determination of the Cubical Expansion of a solid by
a method which does not require calibration of vessels, weighings, or linear measure.t

ALFRED M. Mayrr.—On Measures of absolute Radiation.t

E. D. Corr.—On the Geology of the region near Zacualtipan, Hidalgo, Mexico.}

* Read April 20. + Read April 21. $Read April 22.
(SG
tn

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Epwarp 8S. Morse.—On ancient and modern methods of arrow release. *

Turopore Gitt.—The ordinal and super-ordinal groups of Fishes.t

H. A. RowLanp.—On the absolate and relative wave lengths of the lines of the
Solar Spectrum. t

Woccorr Gibbs.—Platinous compounds as additive molecules. t

Ina ReMSEN.—lIntluence of Magnetism on Chemical Action.t

ALEXANDER GRattAM BELL.—Upon the Deaf and Dumb of Martha’s Vineyard (con-
tinuation of research relating to the ancestry a the De: uf).

S. P. LANGLEy.—On the Invisible Spectra.

G. F. Becker.—Cretaceous Met ABE AITG 3 Rocks of California (by invitation).t

OGDEN N. Roop.—On color contrast.

CHARLES D. Watcorr.—Classification of the Cambrian System of North America
(by invitation).

A. W. Wricut.—Crystallization of Platinum by means of the electric discharge
in vacuo.t

W. K. Brooxs.—The Stomatopoda of the “ Challenger” collection.

W. Kk. Brooxs.—Budding in the Tunicata.

A. W. Wricutr.—Effect of Magnetization on the electrical resistance of Metals.

Rk. bk. Peary, U. 8. Navy.—On a proposed expedition into the interior of Green-
Jand during the present summer with Disco as a base (by invitation).

BIOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON.

The first of the fortnightly meetings held during the year was the
eighty-second regular meeting of the society.

October 31, 1885.
( , )

MarsuwALL MCDONALD.—Fish-culture a necessity for the maintenance of the shad
fishery.

WitiiaM H. Dati.—Deep-sea Mollusks and the laws illustrated in their develop-
ment,

Richarb RaTHBuN.—Remarks on the Wood’s Holl Station of the U. S. Fish Com-
mission.

Romyn Hircucock.—Notes on the Red Snow, with exhibition of specimens.

(November 14, 1885.)

RicHarpd RaTHBUN.—Remarks on the Wood’s Holl Station of the U. S. Fish Com-
Inission.
W.S. BarnarpD.—Specimen mounting case and method.
Joun A. Ryper.—A new and practical system of raising oysters on a large scale.
Frepberick W. TRUE.—On a spotted dolphin apparently identical with the Pro-
delphinus doris of Gray.
(November 28, 1585.)

THEOBALD SMITH.—A simple device for storing cover-glass preparations illustra-
tive of bacterial disease.

W.S. Barnarp.—l. Environmental digestion; 2. Specimen mount, tube-holders,
labels and stoppers.

C. Harr MerriamM.—The work of the U. S. Department of Agriculture in economic
ornithology.

CuHaRLES D. Watcorr.—Evidence of the loss of vital force in certain Trilobites on
approaching extinction.

FREDERICK W. Tr UE. —A new study ofthe American pocket- ri ats : genus Dipodomys.

* Read April 21, t Read April 2 22.

36 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

(December 12, 1885. )

J.M. Furnt, U. S. Navy.—Exhibition of representative specimens of Voraninifera
from the dredgings of the U. 8. Fish Commission steamer Albatross.
Romyn Hircucock.—The Red Snow.
W. S. BaRNARD.—Digestion; environmental, etc.
4 V. Rirky.—The Mildews of the Grape-vine.
. Hart MerriamM.—Description of a new subspecies of the common eastern Chip
tanta Tamias striatus. '

(December 26, 1885.)

C. Harr MerriaM.—Contributions to North American Mammalog gy. 1. The genus
Tamias.

FRANK H. KNOWLTON.—Multiplication in the Gynecium of Datura stramonium, L.

Otis T. Mason.—Mautilations of the human body.

On January 9 and 23, 1886, the sixth annual meeting (eighty-seventh and e iehby -
eighth regular meetings) for the election of officers was held.

On February 6, 1886, the annual address was delivered by Mr. G. Brown Goode, the
president of the Society, the subject being “The beginnings of American Natura! Ifis-
tory.”

(February 20, 1886. )

Romyn Hircucock.—Demonstration of the resolving power of anew one-sixteen!h-
inch objective. .

D. E. SALMON and THEOBALD SmiTu.—On a new method of producing immunity
from contagious diseases.

C. V. Ritey.-—A carniverous butterfly larva

LEsTER F. Warp.—tThe Plane-tree and its ancestors.

C. Hart MerriAmM.—Contribution to North American Mammalogy. 2. Drseriptiovn
of a new species of Aplodontia.

GEORGE VASEY.—New and recent species of North American Grasses.

(March 6, 1886.)

GEORGE VASEY.—New and recent species of North American Grasses.
CHARLES HALLOcK.—Hyper-instinct of animals.

W.S. Barnarpd.—Exhibition of a fungus, with remarks.

H. G. Beyer, U. 8. Navy—Remarks on Antipyretics.

(March 20, 1886.)

D. E. SALMON and THEOBALD Smiru—Notes on some biological analyses of Poto-
mae drinking-water.

H. G. Bryer, U. S. Navy—Remarks on Antipyretics.

W. S. BarnarD—Exhibition of a fungus, with remarks.

FRANK H. KNowLtron—Additions to and changes in the Flora Columbiana for
1885.

FRANK Baker and J. L. WorrmMaN—Recent investigations into the mechanism of
the elbow-joint.

(April 3, 1886.)

FrANK Baker and J. L. WorrmMan—Recent investigations into the mechanism of
the elbow-joint.

Joun B. Smirn—Some peculiar secondary sexual characters in the Deltoids, and
their supposed function.

C. Hart MerrtamM—Contributions to North American Mammalogy. 3. Deserip-
tion of a new subspecies of Gray Squirrel. ;
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37

R. W. Suuretpr, U. S. ARMy—Some early, and as yet unpublished, drawings of
Audubon.
Tueopore Gitt—The characteristics and families of iniomous fishes.

(April 17, 1886.)

THEODORE Gitt—The characteristics and families of iniomous fishes.

Freprertc A. LucAsS—Notes on the vertebrae of Amphiuma, Siren, and Menopoma.

FreDERICK W. True—l. Exhibition of a wood hare with abnormal growth of
fur. 2. Some distinctive cranial characters of the Canadian Lynx.

R. k. C. Srearns —Instances of the effect of musical sounds on animals.

Joun LB. Smrra—Ants’ nests and their inhabitants.
(May 1, 1886.)

R. E. C. Srearns—Instances of the effect of musical sounds on animals,

Joun A. RypER—The evolution of the mammalian placenta.

T. H. Bean—The trout of North America, with exhibition of specimens.

Wituram H. Darit—l. On the attachment of Lingula, with exhibition of speci-
mens. 2. On the divisions of the genus Pecten.

(May 15, 1386.)

Joun B. SmitrHu—Ants’ nests and their inhabitants.

T. H. Bean—The trout of North America, with exhibition of specimens,
L. O. Howarp—On some new Chalcidide.

C. Hart MerrtamM—Habits of the Short-tailed Shrew.

(May 29, 1886.)

Jonn DB. Smitu—Ants’ nests and their inhabitants.

T. H. BEAN—The trout of North America, with exhibition of specimens.

L. O. Howarp—On some new Chaleidide. ;

Lester Ff. Warv—Exhibition of a specimen of the Palo la Cruz, or Wood of the

Cross.
ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF WASHINGTON.
(November 12, 1885.)

Orro LuUGGeR—On the earlier stagesand habits of Caenia dimidiata.

B. P. MANN—On the Dewey decimal system of classifying and arranging books.

J.B. Smirn—On Dr, Gerstecker’s paper on the systematic position of the genus
Pleocoma Le C,

L.O. Howarp—On Thoracantha floridana Ashmead,

(December 3, 1885.)

J.B. Smrru—On the occurrence of Pleocoma Behrensi in Utah Territory.
J.B. Smiru—On the larva of Aphorista vittala.

C.V. Ritey—On the larval habits of Lirus macer and L. parcus.

KE, A. Scuwarz—On the food-habits of an undescribed calandrid beetle.
L. O. Howarp—On the larval respiration in Corydalus cornutus.

B. P. MANN—On the use of the Dewey decimal system.

(January 7, 1886. )
Annual address of the retiring President, Prof. C. V. Riley.

H. OsporN—Observations on certain species of Hemiptera.
Orro LuGGER—On the life-habits of Mesites subeylindricus and Platypus flavicornia.
C. V. Ritey—On the larve and pupe of Aphorista viltata and Epipocus punctatus.
38 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1836.

.
(February 12, 1886.)
C. V. Ritey—On the food-habits of the larva of Fenesica tarquinius.
L. O. Howarp—On the Chaleid genus Podagrion.
Orro LUGGER—On a new pattern of Aquarium.
J. B. Smirai—On the odoriferous apparatus in Lepidoptera.

(March 4, 1886.)

L. O. Howarp—On a parasite of Cynips quercus-saltatorins.

J. B. Smrra—On the structural characters of the Attacine and Ceralocampine.
GORGE Marx —9n the structural characters of Thelyphonus giganteus.

KE. A. Scu#warz—On the rediscovery of Rhyncolus corticalis Boh,

(April 1, 1886.)

E. A. Scawarz—On the life-history of some North Ameriean Scolytide.
J.B. Smrra—On some features in the structure 6f the family Saturniide.

(May 13, 1886.)
GEORGE Marx—On the structural characters of the genns Phrynus und on the
classification of the family Phrynide.

E. A. ScHwWarRzZ—On the oviposition of Xyleborus celatus and on the galleries of
Monarthrum mali.

(June 3, 1886.)
J. B. Smiru—On the scent organs in the males of Leucarctia acrwa and Puyrrharctia
isabella.
KE. A. Scnwarz—On a new food plant of Pieris rapa.

Otro LuGGER—On the introduction of certain foreign Coleoptera into North
America.

Orro LUGGER—On the fertilization of Cypripedium acaule and the Hard Maple.

L. O. Howarp—On a remarkable case of muscular foree exhibited in Canthon
vigilens.

E. A. Scuwarz—On the Braconid parasite of Pissodes strobi.

A convention of meteorologists was held on February 24 and 25:

.

General William B. Hazen, Chief Signal Officer, in the chair.

2. CURRENT ADMINISTRATIVE WORK.
(a) BUILDINGS AND LABOR, POLICE AND PUBLIC COMFORT.

The regular staff for police and inspection under the supervision of
Henry Horan, superintendent of buildings, has included an assistant
superintendent, a clerk, an inspector, eight watchmen, five door-keepers;
for construction, care of buildings, and repairs, five carpenters, a painter,
and a stone-cutter ; for labor and cleaning, nineteen laborers (three of
whom are constantly detailed to watchmen’s duty), three attendants, and
five cleaners. For heating and lighting there were employed an engi-
neer and, for the greater part of the year, five firemen. In the depart-
ment of police and inspection, the services of an assistant superintend-
ent and four watchmen have been dispensed with. For construction
and repairs, the foree has been decreased by three carpenters and two
painters.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39

.
The following abstract of the report of the Superintendent of Build-
ings for the year will serve to show the various ways in which the me-
chanies and laborers have been employed :

July.—The unloading and storage of the metallurgical exhibits from Philadelphia
were completed. The arrival from the New Orleans Exposition of the Smithsonian col-
lections commenced, and the boxes as soon as received were stored temporarily in the
lecture hall. This was a work of great labor, and demanded the assistance of almost
the entire laboring force. A portion of the collection of fossil plants was removed to
the northwest gallery in the Smithsonian building, which had been assigned as a lab-
oratory for the department. The Indian spears were removed from the Anthropolog-
ical Hall in the Smithsonian building to the northeast gallery, for classification and
re-arrangement. Theexhibit of the Department of Agriculture at New Orleans was
received and placed in the Museum building. The shelving in the main hall of the
Smithsonian building—devoted to the display of mounted birds—was changed in
accordance with the wishes of the curator of birds. This work occupied the time of
carpenters and painters for several weeks. Five one-fourth unit sections were con-
structed for the Department of mammals, and the flat-top cases in which the gem col-
lection had been exhibited at New Orleans were restored to the Mineral Hall.

August.—The carpenters commenced fitting and arranging shelving in the floor-
upright cases in the west hall. Nine pedestals for the Department of Comparative
Anatomy were finished and placed in the Exhibition Iall.

September.—The erection of anew case for the Department of Birds was commenced.
The work of making and fitting shelving for the slope cases in the Department of
Minerals, and the construction of diaphragms for the cases in the Department of
Metallurgy were begun. The wooden annex building was moved 60 feet towards the
west. Slope cases were arranged in the Gothie Hall, Smithsonian building, for the
reptile casts. Table-cases were arranged in the laboratory and exhibition hall of the
Department of Mollusks, and five hundred trays fitted for the same.

October.—Screens were placed along the galleries in the Smithsonian buiiding in
order to secure greater privacy to the curators to whom laboratories have been as-
signed there. The columns and walls of the main hall of the Smithsonian building
were cleaned and repainted. The boat models, returned from New Orleans, were un-
packed and replaced on exhibition in the hall assigned to the section of naval archi-
tecture. A portion of the metallurgical exhibit in the west hall of the Museum
building was transferred from temporary pedestals te exhibition cases. The Mexican
casts were installed on pedestals prepared by the carpenters for their reception. A
large number of empty cases were removed from the northeast court. The re-opening
of the Exposition at New Orleans caused the repacking and reshipment thither of a
large portion of the exhibit of the State Department, which had been transferred to the
custody of the Museum. Shelves were arranged in the balconies of the rotunda for
the reception of living plants.

November.--The collection of musical instruments was removed from the east hall to
the north hall, and the ethnological exhibits were re-arranged.

Models and relief maps, received from the Geological Survey, were placed upon ex-
hibition. Shelving was arranged around the west basement of the Smithsonian
building for the convenience of the department of fishes. The repair of eases in-
jured on the journey to and from New Orleans was commenced. The work-rooms of
the taxidermist and osteologist, in the annex building, were ceiled. The collection
of scientific instruments wasremoved from the east to the north hall.

December.—Sky lights were placed in two of the rooms on the west balcony and in
one room on the south balcony. The “knock-down” cases from New Orleans, which
had been temporarily stored in the lecture hall, were removed to the east entrance,
preparatory to being taken apart and placed in storage. A re-arrangement of the
mass of material in the Armory building was effected, under the supervision of the
40 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

registrar. A partition was built in the northeast end of the annex building, and the
gallery and ceiling extended.

The hip-cases, returned from New Orleans, were placed in the hall devoted to the
fishery exhibit, and the fish-casts removed from the southeast court and arranged in
them. The radiators were removed from along the wall in the northeast court further
out into the hall, in order to admit the wall-cases intended for the display of furs. An
experiment was made in frosting one of the windows in the main hall, Smithsonian
building, in order to exclude the strong sunlight from the bird exhibit. A new style
of case, resembling a bay window, was constructed for the northeast court, and
proved satisfactory. The locomotive ‘‘John Bull,” presented to the Museum by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, was removed from the Armory building and placed
on exhibition in the north hall of the Museum building. Shelving for cases, the fit-
ting of locks and of trays, the construction of packing-boxes, the glazing of cases,
the erection of screens, painting of walls, etc., the construction of new doors for some
of the cases used in the department of birds, the relaying or floors, the fitting up some
of the galleries in the Smithsonian building, and the construction of pedestals for
exhibition purposes, occupied a great deal of time.

January.—The construction of a half-pillar case was commenced. The work of
making diaphragms for hanging photographs in the Fishery Hall was continued. A
small room on the south balcony was fitted up for the curator of plants. The long
hip-case in the Fishery Hall was painted and glazed. All the boxes, etc., which had
been stored in the Lecture Hall, were removed, and the hall prepared for the course of
Saturday lectures, to commence March 6. Pedestals were made for the Egyptian
figures in the north hall. Much time was spent by laborers in clearing snow from
the sidewalks. The dark room on the second floor of the northwest pavilion was
fitted with shelves. <A file-case was constructed for the assistant director’s office.
The Jarge Indian canoe in the section of naval architecture was suspended from the
ceiling. Several of the doors leading to the vaults and storage-rooms in the Smith-
sonian building were lined with tin, with a view to rendering these apartments com-
paratively fire-proof. The totem-posts were removed from the statuary hall to the
south wall of the west hall.

February.—A portion of the annex building was partitioned off as a laboratory for
the Invertebrate Fossils. A railing was built in the Pottery Hall, thus cutting off a
portion of the hall required for assorting and repairing specimens. The construction
of settees for the rotunda was commenced by the Museum carpenters. The shelving
in some of the cases in the Anthropological Hall was refitted.

March.—The tin roof over the Gothic Hall, Smithsonian building, was repaired.
A railing was built around the lecture hall to protect the Catlin pictures, and in
the section of naval architecture as a protection to some of the boat models which
are fastened against the wall. An extension of the diaphragms to which the Catlin
pictures are fastened was commenced. A sloping map-case for the department of
lithology was completed. An old vault under the north entrance to the Smithsonian
building was fitted with shelving for the storage of fish-casts, molds, etc. The settees,
diaphragms, ete., already referred to, were painted, and also the five pine table-cases
for the department of invertebrate of fossils. The Peruvian pottery was removed
from the Smithsonian building to the Museum. Two storage rooms in the west base-
ment of the Smithsonian building were arranged with shelving for the departments
of marine invertebrates and mollusks. The Indian pottery, which had been stored
behind the wall-case in the northeast court, was removed to the basement rooms in
the east wing of the Smithsonian building. Three arch-screens were finished by the
Museum carpenters. Unit table-cases were painted for the department of ethnology,
and a double arch-sereen was erected at the entrance to the lecture hall. Work
upon eight settees for the Rotunda were commenced by the Museum carpenters.

April.—The construction of a large open screen by the Museum carpenters for the
west entrance was commenced. ‘The telephone room was frescoed and painted. A
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Al

large case was made for the filing of duplicate labels. The large sheet of plate glass
was fitted in the fur-seal case. A large sink with water connection was provided for
the annex building. The collection of snow-shoes was removed from screens in the
east hall and arranged on diaphragms over pier-cases,

May.—The painting of some old flat-top cases in the main hall of the Smithsonian
building, for the department of mollusks, was commenced. Carpenters were en-
gaged for eight days in making alterations in the large wall-case at the west end of
the Anthropological hall, Smithsonian building. Casters were placed on some of the
cases in the southeast court, thus removing the cases and their contents out of the
way of dampness. The large wall-case just referred to was painted. Work was
commenced on the preparation of two hundred oak blocks for the installation of
spears. A car-load of specimens received trom New Orleans was stored in the south-
east court.

June.—The construction of settees for the Rotunda was completed. The large ebon-
ized cases for the Pottery hall were glazed, and locks were adjusted to cases in the
departments of lithology and comparative anatomy. Much was done in painting
walls, glazing and painting cases, diaphragms, pedestals, blocks, and label frames.

During the year, besides the regular force, there were employed additional carpen-
ters, laborers, and painters, as occasion demanded.

(b) ELectric SERVICE.

In the basement of the Smithsonian building and in the main and
anthropological halls there have been placed electric call-bells for the
purpose of calling the superintendent during business hours and the
watchmen during the hours after the building is closed to the publie.
Signal buttons have been placed near the bells.

The watch-clock system, which has been in use for eight years, has
been re-constructed and put in good order. Three electric time-clocks
have been placed in the main exhibition hall and connected with the
standard clock in the Museum building. The annex building, carpenter-
shop, and paint-shop have been furnished with watch-clock service.

A large gong has been placed outside of the east entrance for the pur-
pose of calling employés outside of the main building.

The library has been connected with the office of the mammal depart-
ment by means of a call-bell, and the engine-room is now similarly con-
nected with the photograph gallery.

The time service, watch-clock service, and call-bell service have been
kept in good order.

An electrical hydrostatic indicator has been placed in the Armory
building.

Two eall-bells have been placed in the south towers. 'The time clocks
are worked by a battery of fifty cells, a battery of forty-five cells work-
ing the other systems. These are in excellent condition.

Considerable difficulty has been encountered in keeping the in-
trenched wires in order, on account of the heat and condition of the
trenches.

A list of the electrical apparatus in the National Museum at the end
of June, 1885, was given in the last report,* since which date no im-
portant additions have been made.

* Pages 27-29.
42 : REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886
(c) CASES AND FIXTURES.

During the year ending June 30, 1886, $21,521.24* was expended out
of the $40,000 appropriated for furniture and fixtures, for exhibition
cases, screens, unit drawers and trays, tablets, stands, unit boxes, lum-
ber, plate glass, locks, brackets, and other necessary fittings ; $3,171.93
has been expended for glass jars for holding specimens; $632.91 was
expended for furniture for exhibition halls and offices; $1,771.96 was
expended for apparatus for laboratories, halls, and repairs; $278 was
expended for grate and boiler fixtures—a total of $27,376.04.

There was also expended, out of the furniture and fixtures appropria-
tion, for wages of mechanics and laborers, and salaries of property clerk,
accountant, copyist, and other necessary employés, $12,578.91,t leaving
a balance of $45.05.

(d) ProprERTY AND SUPPLIES.

The methods employed in the department of supplies have been
greatly improved during the year under the administration of W. V. Cox,
chief clerk of the Museum. The force of clerks has been temporarily
increased, and steps have been taken toward the completion of the
records, some of which were in an imperfect condition, owing to the
rapid growth of the Museum since its reorganization.

Experience has proven that when a large supply of articles is kept
in stock there is a greater tendency to waste and extravagance than
when the supply islimited. In other words, no economy has been found

* The following cases, screens, unit drawers, etc., have been made for the Museum
during the year by outside constructors :

25 mahogany unit table cases.........-. $2,,150;,00) | Ipainstonm doond: 222-6 ee econ 83. 50
15 wh#e pine unit table cases........-. 672.45 | 15 mahogany and ash frames..-....-..- 26. 26
16 mahogany half unit table cases... -. 768:,00) | 1 .whitemine base-4: <5... << 2S ee 20. 00
5 whee pine half unit table cases-.-..-. 150. 00 | 5,429 unit drawers and trays ......-.--. 2,871.74
2 white pine Salvin bird cases.........- 157.88 | 54,440 pasteboard trays, boxes, and

1 white pine sectional library case. -..- 21. 00 COVOLS ia nmn sce ctncl anes ate ee eae 1, 209. 69
4 white pine i-unit table cases .......-. 78.40 | 14,984 tablets for mounting specimens. - 935. 18
1 white pine card catalogue case......- 16.00 | 763 bird stands and wire nests. -...-.--- 95, 96
IGEN Sin POM CASES ae -ke wa-s,cu ees oleh 478.00 | 100 insect boxes and cork for lining... - 128. 50
1 white pine photo-microscope case .... 36.00 | 18;200 label-holders.... /2-- 2 sos 222... 85. 55
Lwhitepine tle CasOs- ccm seme eosiene 32.60) | 11,689 plate elaset 220. coe oe cet ooe 2, 324. 43
MNELVATLUIM CASES cee cises ce wen wee cls aes 165: 00) "530 Locks \o2- . cece see ee ese 817. 95
10 redwood insect cases...........-.---- 607.00 | 1,000 brackets and hooks.......-..--..- 199. 00
WAS SG CAkC’. > ap oaicscetoce ncoceese eee 135.00 | File boxes and holders ...........--..... 50. 48
1 walnut case remodeled ...........-... 85.00 | Drawings for cases, ete .......-.:--...- 896, 60
9 fold screens, one-half pillars ......... 667.00 | ‘Traveling expenses to inspect cases... - p29!
10 poplar arch screens --.-.... 150.00 | Interior and other necessary fittings ... 2, 674.55
1 oak mosaic screen............. Sepee 693004) ram ber-22- aaeeaee PS OE dee 2, 467. 71
QUMOldIROTeEeNS:-c-c.cu. cco o cet ecueueolee 69. 00 —-
WIMINCRALUTEBSOP scan. cote ccnoeeeebeone 24. 00 Total i casecceesattenaes chooses 21,521. 24

The following cases, diaphragms, pedestals, ete., have been made in the Museum
carpenter shop.

7 mahogany slope cases, half size. 1 cherry desk.

3 storage cases, 1 walnut file case.

7 poplar arch-sereens. 1 mahogany file case.

10 oak settees. 1 mahogany case for maps.

26 white pine bases. 1 mabogany file and drawers for case,
4 oak bases. 20 walnut pedestals, assorted sizes.

16 diaphragms.

t The highest salary paid was thatof property clerk, $100 per month; lowest, copyist, $30 per month ;
average, $62.50. The greatest number of employés ina month was 30; the smallest,7; an average of
16;,. The highest wages paid mechanies and laborers was $3 per day; lowest, $1.50; average, $2.25.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43

in buying larger quantities, even at a cheaper rate, than when only
sufficient supplies for immediate use are procured. Therefore only arti-
cles of every-day use are now kept on hand.

The method of procedure in issuing supplies has been changed. The
usage of the present time provides that the heads of departments shall
file a requisition, as formerly, for whatever may be required in his
work. If the articles are of a kind usually kept in stock, this requisi-
tion is presented to the property clerk, who attends to it and makes
proper entries in his books. If the articles are not in stock, the requi-
sition is sent to the chief clerk of the Maseum, who mails proposals to
established firms or manufacturers for the articles required. Upon the
return of the proposals, the prices are inserted on the original requisi-
tion and it is sent to the Assistant Secretary for action. Ifthe expend.
“ture be authorized, the requisition is approved and returned to the
chief clerk of the Museum, who makes out an order for the articles,
sending also a notification to the property clerk for his guidance. The
firm is required to deliver the articles, with a memorandum Dill, to the
registrar, who makes an entry of them in his books and turns the articles
over to the property clerk. This officer delivers them to the person
making the requisition, at the same time obtaining his receipt. This
form is filed by the property clerk in his office. Itemized bills, giving
the number of the orders, are required to be presented in duplicate
each month. These bills are examined by the property clerk, and if
found to correspond to the notification in regard to quantity and price
are certified to by him. The property clerk retains one of the certified
bills and sends the other to the chief clerk of the Museum, who com-
pares it with the stubs in the order-book. If it is found to correspond
to the orders, it is referred to the Assistant Secretary, who directs that
it be paid. ‘The bill is then sent to the chief clerk of the Smithsonian
Institution, to be transferred to official forms. The voucher passes
through the same hands as did the original bill and undergoes the same
scrutiny and is ready for payment when it receives the approval of the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Should a curator desire to make the selection of the articles himself,
as scientific apparatus, for instance, a special form giving him that
permission is furnished. This form, which states that the charges are
just and reasonable, the curator signs, after obtaining the articles, and
transmits with the bill to the property clerk, as in the case just men-
tioned. Proper entries are made in the books, so that at any time it is
easy to ascertain the cost of articles and the amount expended for any
department. It will be seen that, with so many checks and counter-
checks, the Museum interests are in every particular safely guarded,
and what may appear cumbersome routine after all greatly facilitates
the obtaining of supplies, accounting for the same, as well as the set-
tlement of bills.

All the cases, ‘urniture, ete., belonging to the Museum are stamped
44 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886,

with the Museum cipher and numbered. Supplies are issued upon
requisitions approved by the Assistant Secretary, which are filed with
the property clerk, and the articles in each case are charged up to the
department to which they have been assigned.

Another change that has been made during the year has been the
appointment of a committee of experts to examine all cases, articles of
furniture, ete., to see that the contractor has performed his part of the
contract, and that the articles are up to Museum standard, and therefore
in proper shape for acceptance. A second committee inspects lumber,
in order to see that it is of the kind ordered, of the proper dimensions,
and is satisfactory for the purposes for which intended. <A third com-
mittee examines the unserviceable property of the Museum, and reports
what action in their judgment is desirable. These committees have per-
formed their duties faithfully and with very satisfactory results, reliev-
ing this office at the same time of much detail and labor.

(¢) CORRESPONDENCE AND REPORTS.

The Museum correspondence, which is under the charge of the exec-
utive clerk, Mr. Rt. I. Geare, has very largely increased during the year.
Tliere have been written for the signatures of the Secretary and Assis-
tant Secretary 1,169 letters and 1,001 acknowledgments of accessions,
and 209 reports upon specimens sent for examination have also been
prepared.

(f) PREPARATION OF LABELS.

‘Five thousand eight hundred and sixty forms of labels have been

printed at the Government Printing Office, as shown in the following
table:

Department. No. of forms. Department. No. of forms.
IMEC TOUR OUG A acces nunc seats eae Td) i thmologicaly ss ee cee aaa Pee 122
Mevterla medica: 2-2-2 cannes sos ce 1.407)" Mammailay 2: ose ecae cae eee eee eee 34
1B yhg dts Se ee Soe eon are iesey = ap ee 940\:| Dextiles):.c 22 eet ee oe ee: 274
Nae) Its ieh a8 pi a. has ae ee aaa ed CAE ee 264 2s
ISG ey eR TS Ses ee SP INS Pe 503 Novalis. Soe ee oe he EOL
DUUldwINFIShOnesece<.secc seac, ac-cce > AOS

Several hundred lables have also been printed in the Museum.

3. THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS.
(a) TAXIDERMISTS.

The work of the year was opened by a journey of the chief taxidermist
to Keene, N. H., in company with Mr. IF’. A. Lucas, the osteologist, to
receive a full-grown Indian elephant, named “ Albert,” which was shot
by order of Hon. P. T. Barnum at that town on July 20, and presented
to the National Museum. ‘he preparators reached the elephant about
thirty-four hours after its death, and. with the aid of four butchers,
the animal was quickly dissected. In two days the skin was removed

———
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRT@’'LARY. 45

and successfully preserved. All the bones of the skeleton were
“roughed out,” and on the third day skin and skeleton were boxed
securely and shipped to Washington. The skin weighed 1,080 pounds,
and when removed was in some places 14 inches in thickness. Upon
its arrival at the taxidermic laboratory it was preserved in a soft state,
to be mounted as soon as practicable.

Among the other important acquisitions of fresh specimens received
during the year were a very fine Burchell’s zebra, a royal Bengal tiger,
a horse antelope, water-buck, white-faced antelope, an eland, a llama,
and a black macaque.

Of the specimens mounted by the chief taxidermist, Mr. William T.
Hornaday, the Bengal tiger and the Burchell’s zebra seem worthy of
especial mention.

These two specimens may fairly be regarded as showing the possibili-
ties of taxidermy in the treatment of difficult subjects. It is especially
worthy of note that they are both so substantially mounted in every
part as to render them essentially imperishable if kept under glass.

Among other specimens mounted during the year were a number of
very fine and rare ungulates of large size, including a water-buck, A fri-
cau wild sheep, white-faced antelope, Nama, and others; a very large
and handsome leopard; a cheetah; an elephant-seal 11 feet in length,
and a series of very fine kangaroos.

Work in the laboratory was interrupted during seven weeks of May
and June by the exploration for buffalo in Montana, undertaken by Mr.
Hornaday and his assistant, A. H. Forney, accompanied by Mr. George
H. Hedley, of Medina, N. Y. On account of the fear that it might be
impossible to find buffalo at all, or at least without a search of three or
four months, a start was made in the spring with the hope of finding
animals before they would commence to shed their hair.

By hard work and good fortune a few buffalo were found in Montana,
but by the time the first specimens were killed they had shed their
hair to such an extent as to render their skins not fit to mount as typi-
cal specimens of the species. Accordingly the party returned imme-
diately with the collection already made, to go out again in October to
finish the work. A report of this exploration will be published after
the work is completed, including a list of the collections made by the
party during the month spent in the field.

A very important item of the work done by the chief taxidermist has
been the installation of the exhibit of the Society of American Taxider-
mists, which is now very attractively displayed along the north side of
the northeast court. It is greatly admired, and by many visitors is
carefully studied.
46

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886

List of mammals, etc., mounted by the Taxidermists of the U. S. National Museum during
the year 188586,

14629.

15120.
14997.

14956.

13069.

13829.

14114.

14999,

15250.

15172.

PRIMATES.

. Macacus maurus(Black Macaque).
26. Semnopithecus cucullatus (Black

Langur).

CARNIVORA.

. Felis leopardus (Leopard).
97. Felis jubata (Cheetah).

iL. Felis ornatus.

1638.
15041.
14267.

15173.

Felis catus.

Canis occidentalis (Gray Wolf).

Canis familiaris (St. Bernard Dog).

Cercoleptes caudivolyulus (Kink-
ajou).

PINNIPEDIA.

Macrorhinus angustirostris (Ele-
plant Seal, 11 feet long).

UNGULATA. ,
Equus burchelli (Burchell’s Zebra).
Kobus ellipsiprimnus (Water-
Buck).

Damalis pygarga (White-faced An-
telope).

Ovis tragelaphus (African Wild
Sheep).
Nemorhedus
Goat),
Cervus columbianus (Black-tailed

Deer). Head.
Cervus dama (Fallow Deer),
Llama glama (Llama),

crispa (Japanese

RODENTIA,

Synetheres prehensilus.

MARSUPIALIA.
15772.
15228.
15297.

15295.

Macropusrufus ¢ (Red Kangaroo).

Macropusrufus 9 (Red Kangaroo).

Macropus rufus? (Red Kangaroo),

Macropus robustus (Great Rock
Kangaroo).

Macropus parryi (Parry’s Kanga-
roo).

15300, Halmaturus dorsalis (Black-striped
Kangaroo).

Halmaturus ruficollis (Red-necked
Kangaroo).

Halmaturus temporalis.

Halmaturus thetidis (Pademelon
Kangaroo).

Phascolarctos cinereus (Koala),

15299.

15302.

15303.
15304.

15310.

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS MOUNTED.

Hexanchus griseus (Gray Shark), 10 feet
8 inches long.

MISCELLANOUS WORK DONE.

33 mounted mammals were repaired.
154 mounted mammals from New Orleans
were cleaned and cased.
20 skulls were removed from skins of
mammals.
24 dry skins were relaxed, shaped, dried,
and dressed.
5 dry skins were poisoned.
1 fur suit was repaired and dressed.
17 boxes of specimens were packed for
shipment.
43 boxes of specimens were unpacked
and distributed.
4 students received instructions in tax-
iermic methods.

One circular of directions was written for publication, and material

for four illustrations was prepared.

The exhibit of the Society of American Taxidermists was prepared for
exhibition and installed.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. AT

List of mammals in the flesh secured during the year.

PRIMATES. CARNIVORA.
15323. Cynopithecus niger. 15387. Felis tigris (Tiger).
15357. Cebus hypoleucus (White-tbroated | 15230. Felis leopardus (Leopard).
Capuchin), 15173. Cercoleptus caudivolvulus (Kin-
15381. Cercocibus albigena. kajou).

15482. Cercopithecus diana (Diana Mon- | 15258. Putorius erminea (Ermine).

key): RODENTIA
15251. Macacus pelops. :

15172. Synetheres prehensilis.

UNGOLATS. 15220. Synetheres prehensilis.
15120. Equus burchelli(Burchell’s Zebra), | 15249. Sciurus niger cinereus (Northern
15215. Hippotragus equinus. Fox Squirrel).
15250. Llama glama (Llama). 15320. Sciurus aureogaster (Red-bellied
15318. Cervis axis porcarius. Squirrel).
22185. Oreas canna (Eland). 15280. Erethrizon epixanthus (Western
22187. Ovis tragelaphus (Africaa Wild Porcupine).

Sheep). 15352. Dasyprocta isthmica.

15347, Cervus porcinus. ait
a MARSUPIALIA.

ERO OS Crea 15174. Macropus walabatus (Black-tailed
15142. Elephas indicus, ‘‘ Albert” (Indian Kangaroo).
Elephant), &4 feet high. 15228. Macropus rufus (Red Kangaroo).

Mr. Henry Marshall has, as usual, worked under the direction of the
curator of the department of birds, and a great deal has been accom-
plished by him during the year.

(b) OSTECLOGICAL PREPARATOR.

The following table shows the number of osteological specimens pre-

pared or mounted by Mr. F. A. Lucas during the year, as weil as the

number of avimals received in the flesh, whose rough preparation in-
volved an outlay of considerable time and labor:

Mammals. | Birds. | Reptiles. | Batrachia. | Fishes.

Received in the flesh :

Entire skeletons ...-.. ...- 39 6 3 1 6

Incomplete skeletons...-.. 38 | el eee rare aera Iee a5 oc
Cleaned :

Entire skeletons ...-..-..- 23 9 11 5 5

Val Steee cr schise cen cece oe 25 | Re ae | ee ene ge 90

Incomplete skeletons.... -- 4 TONS tine Aneel clstauite ade elets | egestas
Mounted :

Entire skeletons ...-...--. 19 12 10 2 12

DW Siesccs tacice co caes sows 11 Ou |e eye Se clei Sane alee a averae)|s = re ee

Limbs and other pieces.--.. 25 8 AN | Se oeen seaec es 3

2 = — = et eee ee A ae

This table gives a total of 872 specimens on which work was done
during the year, including one whale 20 feet in length, and the full-
grown elephant “ Albert.” In addition to the work noted above, the
plaster cast of the Giant Tortoise (Colossochelys) has been mounted in
48 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

the Museum Building and completely repaired, and numerous skeletons
transferred from pedestals of various patterns to others of the now
adopted standards. The rapid accession of material has necessitated
numerous re-arrangements of both the study and exhibition series, re-
quiring the expenditure of much time and labor. This and the prelimi-
nary work of rendering the collection of bird skeletons accessible for
study have consumed a great portion of the osteologist’s time.

The specimens in the department of comparative anatomy have long
been in confusion, and it has taken several weeks to arrange them tem-
porarily. Before the close of another year it is hoped that the work of
installation, if not completed, will be well advanced. Since the speci-
mens added to the exhibition series are dwelt upon at some length in
the report of the curator of comparative anatomy, it will be necessary in
this connection only to acknowledge the valuable services of the assist-
ant preparator, Mr. J. W.Scollick. The skeleton of Python in particu-
Jar bears witness to his skill and patience.

The osteologists now have in use three tanks, thirty-five barrels, and
six kegs, containing seventy-one skeletons and thirty-one skulls, a con-
siderable number of skeletons being ready for maceration, but not placed
in barrels owing to the impossibility of cleaning them during the pres-
ent year. Two years ago the yard and shed, devoted to the cleaning of
skeletons, were enlarged to three times their previous capacity, but now
the working space has become greatly cramped and still further enlarge-
ment is extremely desirable.

(c) MODELERS.

Mr. J. W. Hendley has been occupied in modeling and painting a
large number of food specimens, and has repaired several lay figures.
He has also made casts of numerous archeological and ethnological im-
plements forthe departments of pre-historic anthropology and ethnology.

Mr. Joseph Palmer has made casts of fishes and reptiles, and of several
Indian heads and busts. He has also thoroughly cleaned and repaired
the casts of seals, porpoises, and reptiles returned from the New Orleans
Exposition.

(d@) PHOTOGRAPHER.

Mr. T. W. Smillie reports that during the year 617 negatives have
been added to the permanent files, the greater portion of which were
distributed as follows :

Kthnological and archeological, 359; lithological, 1; mineralogical,
74; ornithological, 3; metallurgical, 20; miscellaneous, 160.

Three thousand two hundred and nineteen prints were made, as follows:
Ethnological and archeological, 1,317; mineralogical, 87; lithological,
1; ornithological, 8; metallurgical, 53; fishing vessels, etc., 232; mis-
cellaneous, 1,521.

In addition, 770 blue prints and enlargements were made, as follows:
Cyanotypes (plans of working drawings.of Museum ¢ases, ete,), 704;
enlargements (medium size), 65; enlargements (4 feet by 7 feet), 1.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. AX

Light Letene have been instructed in photography.

livery facility is afforded these students for acquiring sufficient knowl-
edge of photography to be of practical use to them in the field. In ad.
dition to this, a large amount of routine work has been done, number-
ing and filing of negatives, making up outfits for expeditions, ete.

Negative paper has been adopted for field work, and in part the use
of bromide paper for making enlargements.

The following apparatus has been purchased: Two Francais lenses
for field work, one roll-liolder, one balance.

At the request of the Post-Office Department, Mr. Smillie was ordered,
as an expert in testing inks, to test eleven cancelling and record inks for
the Department. As none of the inks were indelible, a comparative
test was made and a report on their relative values submitted. Upon
this report was based a decision for making contracts for ink during the
coming year,

(e) ARTIST.

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has painted 218 casts of Indian heads and sev-
eral casts showing the anatomical structure of fishes. He has retouched
27 Corean pictures, and has colored 33 photographs of machinery, In-
dians, etc. He has painted 110 casts of reptiles, mammals, fishes, mol-
lusks, etc. He has also painted a collection of 23 Zuni masks, and per-
formed a considerable amount of additional incidental work.

(f) PREPARATOR IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES.

Mr. i. H. Hawley has continued his work of preparing specimens for
exhibition. This work is varied in character, including the repair of
musical instruments, the framing of pictures, the arrangement of fibers
and cloths in Frames. the mounting of photographs, the installation of
costumes. Considerable time has been devoted to the preparation of
the various Japanese collections for exhibition.

4, ACCESSIONS.

The number of boxes and packages received during the year was
6,890, including those which contained that portion of the objects ex-
hibited at the New Orleans Exposition, which arrived in Washington
after June 30, 1585. The number of accessions represented by these
packages was 1,496 (Nos. 16207-17704).

The geographical sources of these accessions is shown in detailin the
geographical index to the list of accessions in Part v of this Report.
It is thought proper also to present in this place a running review
of the most important of the general collections. Every State and
Territory of the United States, excepting the Indian Territory, is
represented in the list, and from the most ot them have been received
contributions to the departments of zoology, botany, mineralogy, and
anthropology. Many of the accessions are small, consisting of a single
object or of a few specimens.

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2——4
50 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW OF THE ACCESSIONS.
AFRICA.

Several portions of this continent are represented in the Museum by
small collections of material received from the New Orleans Exposition.
These are principally ethnological, consisting of clothing, musical in.
struments, ete., and objects of art-work, such as carved brass trays,
samples of leather-work, and stone carvings of Scarabeus. Twenty-
three species of African mammals were received from the Museum of
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., and a few birds.

Irom Algeria we have five slabs of marble from the old Roman
quarries, for many years lost sight of.

An Egyptian mummy * in excellent state of preservation and ob.
tained at Luxor, in Upper Egypt, by Hon. 8. 8S. Cox, United States
minister to Turkey, was presented by him to the Museum.

This mummy measures 5 feet 6 inches, is delicately proportioned, and
is altogether a very good specimen. No hieroglyphies or inscriptions
have thus far been found, either on the mummy or on the outer case,
which is also in a good state of preservation. The face and head of the
mummy are covered by a mask of green cement, the part covering the
face being gilded. A black streak one-half inch wide extends down
the cheeks and across the chin, from eye to eye. Side by side on the
chest lie four small tablets about the size of playing-cards, each one
having upon it a mummied figure of Osiris in a standing position.

Two shield-shaped ornaments le across the breast and stomach re-
spectively ; the upper one has upon it the sacred beetle with spread
wings, beneath which is a Nilometer standing between the two figures
which support a globe upon the head. The faces of the figures are cov-
ered by a square piece of gold-leaf; at the end of the wings is repre-
resented the hawk head of Ra, also supporting a globe. Over the sur-
face of the shield are painted representations of jewelry. On the lower
figure appears a kneeling figure of Nepte, with extended arms and
wings. She wears a head-band upon her head, upon which rests a globe;
on either side of the head of Nepte are two groups, each containing
three small figures. Ostrich plumes appear in the corner of the shield.
Along the leg of the mummy lies a sheet of linen, cemented (papier
maché) at the top of which is a mummy on a dog-shaped bier. At the
head of the bier is a kneeling figure, holding an ostrich plume. Below
this is a row of kneeling figures holding plumes. Further down is a
second Nilometer, on either side of which a figure, with an implement in
each hand, faces two mummied figures, both of which have the faces
concealed with a square piece of gold-leaf. The feet are encased in a
covering of cemeuted linen.

Lieut. M. A. Shufeldt, U. 8. Navy, contributed a collection of shells
from Madagascar.

*Accession 17401. See Part V.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51

NORTH AMERICA.

BRITISH AMERICA,

Canada.—Among the objects received from the various provinces of
Canada were bird-skins, minerals, ores, mammals, photographs of nat-
ural scenery, ethnological material, ete.

A large series of fossils, from the St. John group, was presented by
Mr. W. LB. Hamilton.

Mr. G. F. Matthews presented fifty-three specimens of Cambrian fos-
sils from the St. John group.

UNITED STATES.

Alabama.—Interesting mineralogical and ethnological collections have
been received from 8. E. Johnson and Frank Burns, of the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey, as well as various ores and minerals sent for examina.
tion and report. —

Alaska.—From Fort Alexander, Mr. J. W. Johnson, Signal Service
observer, sent an important collection of bird-skins (one hundred and
five specimens) including skins of the recently discovered Plectrophenax
hyperboreus, also a collection of quaternary fossils in clay concretions, as
well as stone implements and objects illustrating the domestic life of
the Eskimo.

From Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. 8S. Navy, come an Eskimo mask, and
various implements and carvings, taken from graves of Shuani in south-
eastern Alaska.

From Henry D. Woolfe, in charge of the coaling station at Cape
Lisburne, Alaska, belonging to the Pacific Steam Whaling Company,
have been received collections of great interest and of varied character,
full lists being given in Part V; not the least interesting are the nests _
and eggs of several species of birds which breed in this remote locality.

Mr. Charles H. Towhsend, an assistant of the U.S. Fish Commission,
was sent to Alaska by the Commission to make some investigations
into the fur-seal fisheries on the Pribyloff Islands, and during his stay,
through the courtesy of Captain Healy, he accompanied the United
States revenue steamer Corwin to Hotham Inlet. Thence in the steam-
launch Mr. Townsend proceeded, under the guidance of Lieutenant
Cantwell, to the mouth of the Kowak, and up the river to the head of
navigation. On this occasion a large collection * of fishes, birds, mam-
mals, and plants, together with a valuable series of ethnological ob-
jects, was secured. ’

The collection of birds is especially valuable, and among the rarest
species may bementioned: Tringa damacensis, an Asiatic sandpiper, new
to the North American fauna; Plectrophenax hyperboreus, which was
found breeding on Hall Island, in Bering Sea; a good series of the Una-

* Accession 16914,
52 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

lashka rock ptarmigan (Lagopus rupestris nelsoni), and a new species of
Chickadee from the Kowak River, lately described as Parus stoneyt.

Dr. T. Hale Streets, assistant surgeon U.S. Navy, of the Coast Sur-
vey steamer Carlisle Patterson, sends collections of fishes and marine
invertebrates from Alaska.

The latter are referred to at length in the report of the curator of
marine inventebrates.

Mr. N. Grebnitzki, the Russian governor of Bering Island, has sent
important zoological collections from the Bering and Commander Islands.
These are referred to in the reports of the curators andin Part Vv. Ks-
pecially noteworthy are the skeletons of a ziphoid whale, Xiphius Greb-
nitskii, and of the Northern mountain sheep, Ovis nivicola.*

Arkansas.—Dr. J. Guy Lewis, of Little Rock, gives a number of valu-
able minerals. C. I*. Brown, of Hot Springs, also gives minerals; and
W. W. Morrison sends a series of quartz crystals. In addition, various
minerals and ores have been received for identification.

Arizona.—Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau of Ethnology,
has placed in the Museum a large collection of pottery, stone-perforators,
grooved axes, mortars, pestles, grinding-stones, rubbing-stones, arrow-
shaft straighteners, stone carvings, bone whistles, and paint-stones, ob-
tained by Col. James Stevenson.

Mr. E. W. Nelson, formerly connected with the Museum, now living at
Springerville, Arizona, has sent in interesting archeological specimens
from the headwaters of the San Irancisco River, These are described
in the report of the curator of archeology.

Roswell Wheeler, jr., of Sacaton, has sent some rare birds’ eggs.

Dr. B. J. D. Irwin contributed a skull of a bay lynx and also an In-
dian strainer used by Apache Indians in the preparation of ‘“tiswin,”
an intoxicating drink made from the mescal plant.

A collection of seventy-five specimens of stone implements was ob-
tained by purchase from J. H. Carlton, of Fort Thomas.

Maj. Anson Mills, U.S. Army, Tenth Cavalry, sends living specimens
of the Gila monster, Heloderma suspectum.

California.—One of the most interesting contributions from this State
was that sent by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. 8. Army, illustrative of the do-
mestie arts and industries of the Indians of Hoopa Valley. This is the
subject of a special illustrated paper by Professor Mason, and a deserip-
tive list of the one hundred and twenty-six objects in this collection is
given in Part v.t

Lieut. L. W. Green, of Baird, Cal., obtained a series of tools used by
Shasta Indians in making bows and arrows, with specimens of their
work.

C. B. Oreutt, of San Diego, sent fossil argonauta in indurated clay
from southern California. A large number of horned lizards, Phry-
nosoma coronatum, was obtained by Miss Rosa Smith, of San Diego.

* Accession 16878. t Accession 17239.

ee

an

—
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Jo

Gustav Hisen, of Fresno, has sent interesting fishes and birds. C. H.
Townsend contributed bones of whales and dolphins obtained at San
Luis Obispo. Many zoological and mineralogical specimens were also
received for identification.

Colorado.—Specimens of Zuneite were received from W. F. Hille-
brand, of the U. 8. Geological Survey, who also sent some examples of
argyrodite, obtained from Himmelsfurst in Saxony, and from which was
obtained the new metal Germanium. William IF. Doty, of Durango,
Dr. William Hall, of Central City, Louis I. Sharpe, of Leadville, O. H.
Hahn, of South Pueblo, and others, send minerals and ores. H. A.
Tamen, of Denver, presented his “ Rocky Mountain Mineral Cabinet,”
containing some very interesting specimens.

James L. loley presented a specimen of Williamson’s white fish from
White River, and a botanical specimen for identification.

Connecticut—A. EF. Wooster, of Norfolk, contributed brook trout,
melanistic examples of star-nosed mole, Condylura, and the horned owl,
Bubo virginianus. We also sent a stone ax, and a brass idol from Japan.
Lewis B. Woodruff contributed bird skins and a number of sets of birds’
eges. H. B. Hodge, of Plymouth, N. ., sends a remarkable specimen
of the brook-trout, Salvelinus, allied to the blue-blacked trout of north-
ern New England, whose relations have not yet been thoroughly inves-
tigated.

From George W. Lendereg, of Roxbury, were received minerals.

Dakota.—From this State only minerais have been received, and from
the following persons: R. E. Fleming, of Mandarin; H. I. Brown, of
Ponca; S. H. Buchanan, of Custer City, and Samuel Scott, of Rapid
City.

District of Columbia.—Capt. Thomas W. Symons, U.S. Army, assist-
ant engineer of the District, gives a rock-drill of the kind used in the
construction of the Washington aqueduct tunnel. George P. Merrill,
of the National Museum, Prof. Thomas Robinson, of Howard University,
and Dr. William 8. MeIlhenny, present minerals.

James Watson sent specimens of fossil wood from the reservoir cut-
ting near Howard University.

T. HE. Skinner and Clarence Burke send specimens of birds. Charles
W. Richmond presented the nests of fourteen species of birds. Milton
Smith gave asmall mammal, and J. H. Kuehling, Charles A. Bruff, and
H. W. Henshaw, of the U. 5. Geological Survey, contributed serpents.

Florida.—Prof. O. P. Hay, of Indiana University, gave a collection of
fishes. J. UH. Batty and BE. C. Greenwood presented a specimen of the
young of the new sub-species of owl, Syrnium nebulosum alleni, a form
new to the collection. Mr. Greenwood also sends several birds from the
Thousand Islands. Dr. B. H. Warren, of West Chester, Pa., sent a col-
lection of insects, mostly Diptera, and George W. Roberts, of the same
place, contributed a collection of bird skins. Several desirable forms
were purchased from C. J. Maynard, of Boston.
54 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Charles T. Simpson sent a collection of marine shells, one hundred
and eight species, and other similar contributions from Boca Ciega Bay
were received from the U. 8. Geological Survey.

From Dr. J.C. Neal, of Archer, was obtained a collection of fossils.
He also sent some Indian beads from a mound.

John Kk. Jones, of Tampa, and Hon. W. H. Sebring contribute some
invertebrates, and Mr. Joseph Wilcox, of Media, Pa., sends a very in-
teresting collection of chipped-stone implements from the mouth of the
Chesowishka River.

S. I. Walker, of Milton, and T. A. Britt, of Jacksonville, presented
minerals.

Georgia.—Specimens of stalagmitic deposit containing bones of mam
mals from Todd’s lime-kiln quarry near Cartersville, were presented by
the U.S. Geological Survey. Fossil teeth of a horse and a skeleton of
snake from the same locality were lent for examination by John P.
Rogan.

From T. D. Perry, of Savannah, and W. B. Johnston, of Macon, were
received zoological specimens.

Henry Weidenbach, of Washington, presented archeological objects
from Fairfax County. Minerals and ores were sent by William Beal, of
Murphy, N. C., N. P. Pratt, of Atlanta, and J. P. Elrod, of Jefferson.

Idaho.—From Francis Jefferey, of Ketchum, were received samples
of the so-called American jute, proposed as a substitute for the jute of
commerce. This is probably a species of rush, Scirpus validus.

Col. J. S. Shoup, of Salmon City, sends a large and valuable collec-
tion of ores of the Territory ; and C. Overman, Joseph Hostetter, and
T. J. Turpin, of Grangeville, send minerals.

From Capt. J. M. Lee, U. S. Army, of the Ninth Infantry, acting In-
dian agent at Darlington, were obtained two sets of bows and arrows
from the Arapahoe and Cheyenne Indians. These form a very impor-
tant addition to the collection.

Iilinois.—During a vacation trip to Richmond County Mr. Robert
Ridgway, curator of birds in the National Museum, obtained a valua-
ble collection of birds, nests, and eggs. Zoological contributions were
also made by J. Schneck, of Mount Carmel; J. P. Leach, of Rushville ;
John K. Walker, of Rushville; O. P. Rogers, of Marengo; I. B. Hoke,
of Cordova, and H. G. Hodge, of York, who also sent an interesting
collection of the fruits and woods of native trees.

C. Armstrong, of Carrollton, made an archeological contribution, and
A. N. Abbott, of Union Grove, sent specimens illustrating the forma-
tion of fulgurites.

Indiana.—A large number of archeological objects obtained in this
State were forwarded to the Museum, the most notable being those sent
by J. R. Nissley, of Mansfield, Ohio; George Spangler, of Madison ;
George A. Becker, of South Bend; B. F. Stalker, of New Providence ;
A. C. Black, of Washington, D. C., and Dr. E. C. Black, of Wheatland.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 55

Collections of a similar character were also received from Col. J. T.
Abert, of the Engineer Corps, Washington, D.C., and from B. W. Ever-
mann, of Indiana University.

G2ological specimens were contributed by O. A. Blackman, N. W.
Wood, and O. Whitcomb, of Leavenworth, and a collection of coal plants
by Fletcher M. Noe, of Indianapolis. Some interesting fishes were sent
by Prof. David 8S. Jordan, president of Indiana University.

Jowa.—J. W. Preston, of Baxter, and R. J. Haight, of Davenport,
sent zoological specimens.

Irom the Charles City Marble Company was received a beautiful
specimen of the so-called madrepore marble, a form of ornamental stone
not hitherto known in the arts.

Kansas.—Reptiles from southern Kansas have been received from
Charles Ruby, U. S. Army, stationed at Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo.
Yarious zoological specimens have also been received from A. M. Fuller,
of Lawrence; EK. Bumgardner, of Holton, and Warren Kenaus, of Selina.
Dr. W. 8. Newlon, of Oswego, has sent mollusks from the Neosho River
and neighboring streams for identification. From A. Lb. Baker, of
Banner, Trego County, were purchased skeletons of the black-footed
ferret, Putorius nigripes, one of the rarest of American mammals.

Dr. A.C. Peale, of the U. S. Geological Survey, sends an interest-
ing contribution to the department of physical geology, and Dr. A. Rh.
Chase, of Millwood, contributes bones and teeth of mastodon obtained
at a depth of 30 feet below the surface. Fossil shells were sent by
Robert Hay, of Junction City.

Kentucky.—Zoological specimens were presented by Mrs. Richard
Carter, of Cloverport, and T. H. Morgan, of Lexington.

Prof. J. R. Procter, director of the Geological Survey of Kentucky,
presents a large collection illustrating the coal formation of the State,
including eight carefully prepared groups of specimens showing sec-
tions of different veins. Geological specimens were ulso received from
M. E. Morgan, of Gratz. Kentucky Q. Smith (Gerard Fowke) sent
two coliections of archeological objects.

Louisiana.—C©. J. Barrows, commissioner for Louisiana at the New
Orleans Exposition, presented an exceedingly interesting collection of
the clothing and weapons of the Shetimasha Indians, including several
of their curious blow-pipes, used for the propulsion of arrows—the
only weapons of the kind found among natives of North America; also

samples of basketry from the Choctaw Indians; corn-husk basketry
made by the negroes, and specimens of nankeen cotton and decorticated
moss fabrics.

Minerals were received from S. H. Houston, of New Orleans. John
M. Avery, of New Iberia, who has made many valuable contributions
to the Museum from the salt works on the island of Petit Anse, pre-
sents beautiful specimens of salt illustrating cleavage.

Maine.—Samples of basketry from the Passamaquoddy Indians were
received from Mrs. Fannie Pattangal, of Washington, D. C.
56 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Mineral collections were contributed by George P. Merrill, of the
National Museum; IT. T. Lamb, of Portland; N. H. Berry, of South
aris; H. M. Meling, of Portland, and E. M. Bailey, of Andover.

William Herrick, of Swan’s Island, contributed some fishes and sea-
snails,

Maryland.—A large number of birds and other zoological specimens
from various places in this State were sent by Dr. T. H. Bean, U.S.
National Museum; George L. Meazell, of Middlebrook ; John P. Ham.
iin, of Washington, D. C.; George Marshall, of Laurel; H. M. Smith,
U.S. National Museum; L. M. Turner, Smithsonian Institution; J. D.
Farden, of Washington ; Gwynn Harris, of Washington, D. C., and J.
H. Tolbert, of Havre de Grace.

Geological contributions were received from Michael Dooley, of Lon-
aconing; Dr. F. M. Chatard, of Baltimore, and C. I. Coffin, of Muir-
kirk.

A collection of coins of the United States, Germany, Great Britain,
and Ireland was obtained from Ralph Collier, of Laurel.

Massachusetts —An exchange of rocks was effected by Mr. G. P.
Merrill with Prof. W. O. Crosby, of Boston, and with Prof. B. K. Emer-
son, of Amherst. Mr. C. W. Chamberlain, of Boston; Mr. 1. C. Green-
wood, of Nantucket; and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., of “ew Bedford, con-
tributed birds. Mr. J. Henry Blake, of Cambridge, sent parasitic cope-
pods from Provincetown. From Captain Doane, Mr. Henry M. Low, of

tockport, and Mr. W. A. Wilcox, of Gloucester, were received fish. A
grooved stone implement from Vineyard Haven was sent by Mr.
Thomas Lee, of the U.S. Fish Commission. Specimens of feather-work,
which had been exhibited atthe New Orleans Exposition, were received
from Milton J. Flood, ot Sterling. Mr. William Brewster, of Cam-
bridge, forwarded bird-skins for examination and report.

Michigan.—Geological specimens were received from IF’. W. Noble, of
Detroit.

An interesting series of materia medica specimens was sent by Fred-
erick Stearns & Co., of Detroit. .

A. R. Dodge, of East Saginaw, presented a specimen of Ermine,
Putorius erminea, in the flesh.

Minnesota.—A coltection of minerals and rocks, exhibited at the New
Orleans Exposition by the State of Minnesota, was afterwards presented
to the National Museum by Prof. N. H. Winchell, of Saint Paul, who
also sent a specimen of Duluth gabbro. From H. D. Gurney, of Saint
Paul, were received samples of red granite.

Mississippi.icmAn interesting series of specimens illustrating negro
manufacture, exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition, was presented
by General Stephen D. Lee and Professor Phares.

A botanical contribution was received from Hon. James L. George,
United States Senator.

iossils from the Colorado group of the Cretaceous were sent by Miss
May Halstead, of Lexington.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ot

Harvey C. Medford, of Tupelo, sent minerals and fibers for examina-
tion; and 8.8. Mitchell, of Columbus, presented samples of sandstone.

Missouri.—Zoological specimens were received from J. G. W. Steed-
man, of Saint Louis, and F. A. Lampson, of Sedalia.

lossii shells were sent by Wiley Brittain, of Springfield.

A stone idol was transmitted by T. L. Whitehead, of Dexter, for ex-
amination.

Bb. A. Shepley, of Des Arc, gives mineral specimens.

Montana.—The most important contributions were made by Captain
Chas. E. Bendire, who sent thirty-one bird-skius from Tort Custer, a
revolver found on the site of the Custer massacre in 1876, and some in-
teresting concretions.

Lead, silver, copper, and other ores were received from John 8. Har-
ris, of Helena; W. A. Clark, of Butte; F. J. Parker, of Washington,
and Bush & Meyers, of Sheridan.

Nebraska.—Nothing of special importance was received. W. C.
Knight, of Lincoln, sent a bird-skin. 5. I’. Fleharty, of Antelopeville,
contributed fossil bones of horse, and Jerome Wiltse, of Falls City, sent
an Indian implement.

Nevada.— valuable collection of Trenton fossils (2,183 specimens)
collected by C. D. Walcott, of which a fall Lstis given in Part Vv under
ace. 17447, has been received from the U.S. Geological Survey, and also
specimens of silver ore from the Raymond and Ely mine at Pioche.
W. M. Havenor, acting commissioner for this State at the New Or-
leans Exposition, presented ores and mining pictures, and also an inter.
esting series of implements, including a jug, basketry, and cradles,
made by the Ute Indians.

Hon. Rh. W. Furnas, commissioner for Nevada at the New Orleans
Exposition, sent plants.

New Hampshire.—¥rom ©. H. Hitcheock, of Hanover, comes a large
collection of rocks, and also a vertical column of slate, showing the
relative age and comparative thickness of the Archawan, Cambrian, and
Silurian formations.

Fishes were received from I. P. Hodge, of Plymouth, and I. P. Mil-
ler, of Portsmouth.

W. UH. Fox, of Washington, contributed several specimens of birds.

New Jersey—An extensive collection of carboniferous fossils, made
by C. D. Walcott, numbering three hundred and eighteen specimens,
was received from the U.S. Geological Survey.

Zoological specimens were obtained from J. M. C. Eaton, of Irving-
ton, and W. L. Green, keeper of Long Branch life-saving station.

rom C. I. Grimm, of Loveladies Island, was obtained a whale, Kogia
breviceps.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, through J. 8. Watkins, honor-
ary curator of steam transportation in the National Museum, pre
sented drawings, sections of iron rails, castings, ete.
58 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886

Mineralogical material came from Prof. George J.Cuvok, of New Bruns-
wick, from the Bloomingdale Graphite Company, and from George P.
Merrill, of the National Museum.

Ten argillite implements, found by Dr. C. C. Abbott in a gravel bed
at Trenton, were presented by Dr. Charles Rau, curator of archeology
in the National Museum.

New Mexico.—Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, stationed at Fort
Wingate, has made very extensive gifts to the departments of mam-
mals, birds, and reptiles.

Mr. J. B. Bowman, of Aleman, has sent numerous birds.

The geological departments in the Museum have been enriched with
one hundred and eight specimens of turquois from the U. 8. Geolog-
ical Survey; silver and iron ores from Professor Spatcier, of Las Cruces ;
obsidian from the commissioner of New Mexico at the New Orleans Ex-
position, and meteoric iron from Albuquerque, sent by L. G. Eakins, of
Denver, Colo. Fred W. Taylor, of Lake Valley, sent pressed sulphide
of silver, in the form in which silver is recovered from the leeching
solution.

New York.— Zoological ccntributions were made by Dr. ©. 8. Me-
Knight, of Saranac Lake ; Dwight D. Stone, of New York; 8S. E. Meek,
of Cayuga; James T. Walker, of Palmyra; A. G. Cheney, of Glens
Falls; F. C. Jessup, keeper of Petunk Life-Saving Station; and Mrs,
¥. L. Lee, of Westport.

Ores and minerals were received from Charles Miller, of Sanborn, who.
also sent fossil shells; L. W. Ledyard, Cazenovia; and George W.
Watkins. Miss Mary E. Mann sent samples of deposit from Geyser
Springs, Saratoga.

Fossil plants from Allegany County were received from William H.
Dall. KR. E. C. Stearns also sent fossils.

A necklace of wampum beads, representing the work of the Mohawk
Indians, was presented by Prof. Otis T. Mason.

A remarkable stone carving, representing a human head, was given
by the Natural Seience Association of Staten Island.

North Carolina.—Zoological specimens were sent by Dr. H. C. Yarrow,
U.S. Army, honorary curator of the department of reptiles; WdHliam
Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., and Mrs. H. K. Morrison, of Morgan-
town. The Wilmington Oil and Leather Company presented skulls of
a porpoise, Tursiops tursio.

Ores of various kinds were received from C. Hf. Waring, of Knoxville,
Tenn. ; Col. P. M. Wilson, of Raleigh; S. M. Dugger, of Banner’s Elk,
and Robert Claywell, of Morgantown.

Indian implements were contributed by Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of
Lenoir; J.C. Russell, of Righmond, Va., presented a ‘“ puller,” an im-
implement used (in North Carolina) for chopping pine trees.

Ohio.—William. Kayser, of Wapakoneta, sent some phyllopod erus-
taceans. John S. Pollock, of the Smithsonian Institution, presented a
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59

box tortoise, Cistudo carolina. Specimens of moths, ete., were sent for
examination.

The archeological accessions were among the most important from
this State. T. F. Spangler sent flint implements. H.C. Duvall, of
Washington, sent a pierced tablet. Ceremonial and other objects were
received from Dr. L. B. Welch, of Wilmington, and from Kentucky Q.
Smith.

Oregon.—Ores and minerals were received from J.C. Swash, of Union;
Allen D. Wolcott, of Randolph; and F. J. Parker, of Washington, D.C.

William H. Dall presented a cap and woven basket made by the
Rugue Indians.

A collection of fossils for examination and report was forwarded by
H. i. Dore, of Portland.

Pennsylvania.—Zoological contributions came from 8. M. Sener, of
Lancaster; I’. G. Galbraith, of Wrightville; Dr. A. Van Cleef, of Seran-
ton, who also sent samples of coal formation; and George W. Roberts,
of West Chester.

Several important lots of geological material were received, notably,
from Joseph W. Wilcox, of Media; Capt. John J. Williams, of Thurslow;
H. M. Ingram, of the National Museum; Rh. P. Janus, of Washington;
and Henry J. Biddle.

Interesting archeological objects came from Dr. T. Hl. Bean, of the
National Museum; A. I’. Wooster, of Norfolk, Conn.; and A. I’. Ber-
lin, of Allentown.

A box of invertebrate fossils was sent by R. P. Sharpless, of Phe-
nixville.

John W. Brock sent specimens of fossil corn from the slope of the
mine of the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company.

George W. Snyder, of Somerset, sent a collection of Pennsylvania
State-bank: bills.

Ithode Island.—Joseph Wharton, of Newport, and KE. G. Blackford, of
Fulton Market, New York, sent fishes, and H.C. Bumpus, of Provi-
dence, presented reptiles.

The Newport Natural History Society sent mortar from an old tower
at Newport.

South Carolina.—Arthur T. Wayne, of Charleston, senta specimen of
Swainson’s Warbler, Helinaia swainsoni, with nest and eggs.

Geological material was sent by W. F. Chaplin and F. A. Scheffler, of
Orangeburgh, for examination and report.

The U.S. Geological Survey, through Frank Burns, sent fossil wood
and berries; also bricks from a corner-stone of the old court-house in
Orangeburgh, and two mullers.

Tennessee.—Ornithological specimens were sent by James W. Rogan,
of Rogersville. R. Ellsworth Cail presents mollusks.

Ores and minerals were received from the U.S. Geological Survey ;
William Beall, of Murphy; A.J. MeWhirter, of Nashville; C. H. War-
60 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

ing, of Knoxville; C. C. Hoffmeister, of Mossy Creek; and Dr. J. Ber-
rein Lindsley.

C. D. Walcott and Frank Burns, of the U. 8S. Geological Survey, pre-
sented fossils; and James W. Rogan, of Rogersville, and John T. Irwin,
of Paris, sent botanical specimens.

Texas.—Zoological specimens from this State were received from
Thomas Mellwraith, of Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, and Col. A. G.
Brackett, U. 8. Army, of Fort Davis.

Geological material was sent by W. H. Stephens, of Hiner; D. H.
Gibson, of Mineral Wells; Larkin King, of San Saba, and Dr. G. P.
Hachenberg, of Austin.

An interesting leaf-shaped implement of brown jasper, from the Che-
note Mountains, was presented by Thomas h. Stewart, of Presidio.

Fossils were transmitted by Capt. W. H. Clapp, U. S. Army, of Fort
Stockton, and botanical specimens by Dr. W. Thornton Parker, of New-
port, RK. I.

Utah.—An interesting series of thirty-one articles collected by Dr.
H. C. Yarrow, U. S. Army, among the Gosh Utes, was added to the
ethnological collection. This consisted of baskets, berry-wands, mocca-
sins, basket-hat, water-jars, doll, leather bag, and cradle-back.

Fossil plants from Wales, collected by Dr. C. A. White, were pre-
sented by the U.S. Geological Survey.

Several geological specimens were forwarded for examination and
report.

Vermont.—Geological material was sent for examination and report.

Virginia.—FYorty-two accessions of various kinds were received from
this State.

From the Wytheville hatchery of the U.S. Fish Commission come
specimens of California Mountain Trout and Penobscot Salmon. Col.
Marshall McDonald sent several large and varied collections of fishes,
insects, mollusks, invertebrates, reptiles, and two mammals. Other
contributions of fishes were received from James Godden, Maurice
Cropley, who also sent a star-fish, Asterias forbesii, Gwynn Harris, of
Washington, W. Yeatman, keeper of the light-house at Point Lookout,
Md., and Thomas Lewis, of Roanoke. Lucien M. Turner, William
Palmer, of the National Museum, and H. P. Hoare, of Phoebus, sent
reptiles. Birds were presented by John Dowell, of Washington, James
Deane, of Alexandria, and Russell Robinson, of Richmond. Robert
Ridgway, of the National Museum, contributed a nest of the Blue Gros-
beak, Guiraca caerulea. Howard Shriver, of Wytheville, Frank P. Gold,
of Rest, and John 8. Webb, of Totaro, sent insects. Prof. I. H. Mor-
rison, of Lexington, contributed specimens of snail-shell, Helix hortensis.
This locality is new for this species. A.B. Johnson, of the Light-House
Board, sent a section of a pile from a wharf at Cape Henry, completely
riddied by the boring of the ship-worm, Teredo navalis.

Tossil coal, from the Piedmont district, was received from Court
Hamilton, of Bunker Hill, W. Va.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

An interesting collection of minerals, numbering one hundred and
thirty-eight specimens, came from Prof. M. B. Hardin, of the Virginia
Military Institute at Lexington. Minerals were also received from
Myron B. W. Hough, of Washington, F. W. True, of the National
Museum, D. W. M. Wright, of Holly Brook, J. H. Brumwell, of Roa-
noke, and J. H. Mitchell, of Philadelphia. Henry Horan, of the Na-
tional Museum, gave a specimen of stalagmitic marble from the Luray
Cave.

H. M. Smith, of the National Museum, presented canister shot and
minie-balls from the battle-field of Buil Run, and Capt. C. W. Dun-
nington, of the National Museum, added to the historical collection a
military pass te Fredericksburgh, dated September 2, 1861, and signed
by John Letcher, governor of Virginia.

Washington Territory.—Zoological specimens were received from
Lieut. H. E. Nichols, U. S. Navy, Rt. D. Nevins, of Olympia, and Dr.
Basil Norris, U. S. Army. James G. Swan forwarded mollusks and
marine invertebrates from Cape Flattery, and a sample of parchment
composed of kelp, and prepared for printing.

John W. McGee, of Seattle, John J. Burns, of Sprague, and I. A,
Crawford, of Spokane Falls, forwarded minerals and ores. Similar
material for examination and report was also received from several in-
dividuals.

West Virginia.—Specimens of Micropterus dolomiew and Ambloplites
rupestris from Fairmount were collected by the Fish Commission.

Geological material was presented by Maj. Jed. Hotchkiss, of Staun-
ton Va., Frank Smith, of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Timothy Nihon, of
Hedgesville. Minerals and ores were sent for examination and report.

Wisconsin.—A collection of three hundred and thirty-nine Trenton
fossils was given by H. C. Powers, of Beloit.

J. L. De Witt, of Newton, presented two drilled bear’s teeth, two bone
ornaments, two small sheets of native silver, shaped by beating, and
six cylindrical copper beads froma mound at Warner’s Landing. The
sheets of silver are of special interest, and are the first specimens of the
kind in the possession of the Museum.

Wyoming.—Insects were received from N. UH. Brown, of Lander, and
mammals from Charles Ruby, U. 8. Army, stationed at Fort D. A.
hussell.

CENTRAL AMERICA.

From the Central American states were received minerals, bird skins,
insects, ete.

Mr. Harry Stewart, of Nicaragua, contributed two ancient iron stir-
rups, and a number of wooden crosses obtained in an ancient grave-
yard.

from Nicaragua were also received a plow and yoke, and a collection
of ethnological objects, pottery, ete.
62 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

From Yucatan a collection of one hundred and thirteen bird skins,
including a new species, was sent by George I*. Gaumer.
Specimens of reptiles and insects were received from Panama.

MEXICO.

Mr. Louis H. Aymé forwarded ethnological material, stone carvings,
and pottery, as the results of his investigations in Yucatan and Mexico.

From Mr. IX. Wilkinson was received a collection of reptiles embrac-
ing four hundred and seventy-one specimens, and also two mammal
skins.

Prof. Alfred Dagés transmitted several collections of objects of natu-
ral history, inclading mammals, bird skins, reptiles, ores, insects, and
plants.

The commission representing the Mexican Government at the New
Orleans Exposition transferred to the Museum a large collection of
gums, dyes, foods, animal products, ores, baskets, textiles, ete.

Hon. Warner P. Sutton, United States consul, contributed two stone
mortars and a musical instrument.

From the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission was re-
ceived an interesting series of ninety-five specimens (fifty-nine species)
of bird skins. This contribution formed a part of the Mexican Govern.
ment exhibit at New Orleans, and contains five species new to the Mu.
seum collection.

Specimens of gold, silver, and copper ores were received from several
of the Mexican States.

WEST INDIES.

Mrs. C. H. Dall contributed a collection of fifty specimens, fifteen
species, of marine shells.

The U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, in a cruise among the
Bermuda and Bahama Islands, secured nine hundred and fifty speci-
mens of bird skins, and also a number of archeological implements, ete.,
including polished celts, chisels, rabbing stones, and pendants.

The natural history of the islands is represented by numerous con-
tributions of mollusea, marine invertebrates, reptiles, insects, mammals,
fishes, birds, ete.

irom other contributors, minerals, crustacea, fishes, materia medica,
and reptiles were received.

Professor Poey sent specimens of Cuban fishes.

SOUTH AMERICA.

From Brazil were received a series of fibers and also a collection of
the various woods of that country.

A collection of thirteen reptiles from Ecuador was presented.

From Venezuela a collection of bird skins, including twenty-one
specimens, thirteen species; also a small collection of bird skins from
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

Brazil and Peru, and a few specimens of birds, mammals, seed, and
a fish-trap used by the natives of Venezuela.

ASIA.

Commodore Rh. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Navy, presented a Damascus sword
and eight knives mounted in ivory and gold, of Arab manufacture, from
Muscat, given to him by the Sultan of Zanzibar. N. Carandonis de-
posited a Grecian bowl from an Ephesian tomb, and an ancient costume
found in a cavern at the castle on the island of Calumnos. Mr. Otis
Bigelow presents a considerable collection of ethnological objects from
Egypt and the Holy Land. Other objects of similar character were re-
ceived from the Department of State after the close of the New Orleans
Exposition, as was also animportant collection of minerals from Teheran,
Persia.

Mr. William Hf. Dall presents a model of a Madras catamaran, obtained
by Rev. C. 1. A. Dall, and other articles from India. Mr. A. G. Studer,
U.S. consul at Singapore, sent through the State Department the im-
plements and materials used by those who chew the betel-nut, and also
a collection of the native woods of Singapore.

Various single objects and small collections, ethnological and zoolog-
ical, from other portions of the Hast Indies, were received from different
individuals.

From China the accessions were for the most part obtained through
the State Department after the close of the New Orleans Exposition,
and included a number of interesting products of the native arts, and a
series of specimens illustrating the ramie industry of that country.
Dr. Bethune McCarthy, for nearly half a century a medical missionary in
China and Japan, has given and deposited a small but very useful and
interesting collection of books, pictures, and other objects.

From Corea, Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy, obtained a large and
valuable collection, including fishes, marine invertebrates, cephalopods,
pottery, ethnological material, and drugs. Someof the pottery in this
collection is said to be from three hundred to seven hundred years old.

In addition to this collection three specimens of lacquered ware—cup,
can, and tube—which were exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition,
were added to the ethnological collection.

From Japan was received a collection of minerals presented by Gen-
eral Thomas B. Van Buren, U.S. consul at Kanagawa.

A very beautiful helmet of silver, with bosses of steel and with leather
cape, lined with embroidered silk, was presented by D. W. Zantzinger,
of Washington.

An interesting series of bird-skins from Japan was given by Henry
Seebohm, of London, besides various; smaller collections. The most
important of all the accessions from Japan was a most instructive series
of ninety-two specimens, illustrating the manufacture of pottery and
porcelain, showing the materials, appliances, the objects in various
64 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

stages of manufacture, and the final products. This, together with a
detailed catalogue, was sent by the Department of Education in Tokyo,
and is referred to at length in Part v, under accession 17339.

EUROPE.
AUSTRIA.

The Austrian exhibit at the New Orleans Exposition, consisting of
textile goods, dried fungi (one hundred specimens), grains, foods, and
musical instruments, was transferred to the National Museum.

BELGIUM.
Kleven geological maps were received from the Belgian Commission
at the New Orleans [xhibition.

ENGLAND,

A most interesting addition was an “ exchequer tally ” presented by
A. W. Franks, esq., of the British Museum, and referred to in Part Vv,
under accession 66213.

This was used by the court of exchequer of England as a record of and
receipt for money loaned to or by the Government. Tally sticks circu-
lated as money in England in 1697. The tally now presented is for
£100,000, in part principal of the loan of £1,400,000 from Government,
and for £6,049 6s. 3d. for interest thereon, due September 30, 1776.
Paid November 28, 1776.*

* The Saxon kings of England kept the record of their public accounts on notched
sticks, andthe same system of registering loans was practised by the Court of Ex-
chequer until the year 1783, when by Act of Parliament, under George III, a new
method was adopted.

A supply of hazel, ash, or willow sticks was kept for the use of the Treasury ; when
seasoned and prepared, notches were made on one side by the cutter of tallies, and
Roman numerals were inscribed on the opposite side by the writer of tallies. The
notches were made of different sizes to represent pounds, shillings, pence, and a hun-
dred or even a thousand pounds. The stick was then split through the center by the
Deputy Chamberlain, with a knifeand mallet; one portion being called a tally, or the
scacha, stipes, or kancia, and the other portion the counter-tally, or folium. The
date of the deposit or credit and that when payment would fall due, and the name of
the person having the claim upon the Treasury was also inscribed upon the tally.
When payment was due, the counter-tally was presented at the Treasury, and, if it
fitted with the tally the money was paid, and the two parts put together and filed
away as a permanent record of settlement.

In 1697, while the metallic currency ot Lngland was being recoined, there was a
great scarcity of currency, and exchequer tally sticks were put in general circulation
as money. The regular currency, also the exchequer tallies, depreciated greatly.
The Bank of England advertised a new loan of £1,000,000, offering to take 80 per cent.
of the same in tally sticks, and this relieved the Government of £800,000 outstanding
promises to pay, which became due tle> Bank, an easy creditor of the King.

In 1834, by order of Parliament, the great quantity of tallies which had accumu-
lated in hundreds of years were burned in the stoves at the House of Lords, and, un-
fortunately, the great heat set fire to the building and consumed the Iouses of Parlia-

ment, October 16, 1834,

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65

Several large collections of pottery, exhibited at New Orleans, were
afterwards sent to the Museum.

Mr. Edward Hargitt contributed bird skins.

By exchange with R. Bowdler Sharpe, esq., of London, the Museum
has obiained three hundred and twelve specimens (one hundred and
forty-nine species) of birds, chiefly new to the collection, and for the
most part from Turkey, France, South Africa, Asia Minor, India, Eng-
land, Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Pegu, British Burmah, Timor Laut,
Papua, Australia, Brazil, and Peru.

Minerals, fishes, and materia medica specimens also added to the
Museum collections.

’

FRANCE,

Mr. Thomas Wilson, United States consul at Nice, France, forwarded
a collection of prehistoric stone implements.

Collections of bird skins, fibers, and two mammals were received.

Two manikins of Africans and one of an Arab Sheikh were prepared
for the Museum by M. Jules Hébert, under the supervision of the direc-
tor of the Trocadero Museum, Paris.

GERMANY.

From E. Rey a collection of bird skins was purchased.

The following material, forming part of the German exhibit at New
Orleans, was received: a collection of baskets and other industrial
products, and two figures illustrating dress and occupation of peasants.

HOLLAND.

Four large pieces of Flemish tapestry * (Acc. 16707) have been de-
posited by Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan, U.S. Army. ‘These are four of
a series of six pieces illustrating scenes in the life of Alexander the
Great, made by Jan Leyniers (1627-1686) from designs by artists of the
school of Rubens, and presented by John W. Mackay to General P.
H. Sheridan.

The legends are translated as follows :

1. Alexander kills a lion with a severe wound.

2. Alexander draws up the line of battle and exhorts his men to fight.

3. To Alexander, on account of his victories in divers places, arms are surrendered
and he is adored as a god by his men.

4, Alexaniler covered with dust and sweat, bathing himself inthe river Cydnus,
is taken out thence like one breathing his last.

Through the New Orleans Exposition was received a collection of

industrial products.
IRELAND.

Four specimens of basalt, box of magnesia, and a specimen of lace
were received.

—

*Size 14 feet by 13 feet 3} inches,
H. Mis, 170, pt. 2———5
66 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
ITALY.

Among the accessions from this country were a collection of ancient
Roman coins, blocks of lava from Vesuvius, eight specimens of cinna-
bar, and fourteen specimens of sulphur, and ores.

NORWAY.

Several domestic utensils and a collection of marine shells (thirty
species) were received.
RUSSIA.

A collection of reptiles, and a collection of leather and cotton fabrics.
SAXONY.

A collection of majolica-ware and china.
SCOTLAND. |

Specimens of cotton and worsted fabrics.
SWEDEN.

A Chukchee cross-bow, an assortment of seeds from the Experiment-
al Gardens, and a few specimens of ores were contributed.

OCEANICA.

A collection of textiles, mammal skins, bird skins, botanical speci-
mens, nuggets, and a fossil plant were received from Australia, and a
collection of nine mammal skins from New South Wales and Tasmania.

From New Zealand, a necklace and a wallet made of seeds from Papua
and Samoan Islands, specimens of bird skins, and a collection of twenty-
three mammal skins from Queensland and Tasmania were received.

From the Samoan Islands comes a Kava bowl, cocoanut-shell cup,
and root used in preparing a drink called ‘‘ Kava,” together with some
specimens of Tapa cloth and a rug.

A few mammal skins, five carved gourds, and specimens of sugars
were sent from the Sandwich Islands.

A collection of mollusks and marine invertebrates was obtained by
the U. S. S. Enterprise in the islands of the South Pacific.

5. CO-OPERATION OF THE DEPARTMENTS AND BUREAUS OF THE GOY-
ERNMENT. .

As in previous years, the National Museum has enjoyed the valuable
co-operation of the various Departments of the Government.

A number of collections have been received from various agents em-
ployed by the Departments at home and abroad, who during time not
occupied in official duties have employed themselves in scientific in-
vestigations and in collecting material for the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67

President Cleveland presented a bowl, cocoanut-shell drinking cup,
used in the ceremony of kava drinking, and a fan, two pieces of the root
from which the “ kava” is made; and also a rug of native manufacture,
These objects were presented to the President by the King of the Sa-

moan Islands.
STATE DEPARTMENT.

The material received through this Department was collected by the
United States consuls in various foreign countries. The contributions
here mentioned do not include the material received from the New Or-
leans Exposition through this Department.

Hon. 8. 8. Cox, U.S. minister to Turkey, sent an Egyptian mummy.
This specimen is fully described on p. 150 of this report.

Hon. G. W. Griffin, U. S. consul, Sydney, Australia, forwarded Aus-
tralian wool.

Hon. Otto Reimer, U.S. consul, Santiago de Cuba, sent some min-
erals, among which was a very interesting variety of garnet.

Hon. Edward Thompson, U.S. consul, Merida, Yucatan, sent a bird
skin.

Hon. Albert Woodcock, U. S. consul, Catania, Sicily, sent a plow,
which is of great interest, from the fact of its being similar to those
used in Sicily more than two thousand years ago.

Samples of Russian petroleum refined at Marseilles, and of milk sugar
from Germany and Switzerland, were also received.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Bureau of Engraving and Printing.—A small collection of materials
illustrative of the engraver’s work was received.

U. S. Coast Survey.—Dr. W. H. Rush, of the steamer Blake, sent a
collection of mollusks from the Gulf of Mexico, and a parasite worm
taken from a rock cod. A case of salinometers and an optical densi-
meter were deposited by this Bureau.

Light-House Board.—A series of models: of light-houses, light-ships,
etc., which were exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition, were placed
on deposit.

U.S. Revenue Marine.—Capt. M. A. Healy, of the steamer Corwin,
sent a collection of fishes, marine invertebrates, etc.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan, lent, for exhibition, four large specimens
of Fiemish tapestry. These represent scenes in the life of Alexander
the Great, and are described on page 65 of this report.

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, honorary curator of birds’ eggs in the Na-
tional Museum, contributed during the year a collection of fishes, birds,
birds’ eggs, reptiles, and three concretions from near Fort Custer, Mont.,
a Smith & Wesson revolver found on the Custer battle-field in 1883,
and a bird from Fort Lowell, Ariz.
68 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Col. A. G. Brackett, of Fort Davis, Tex., sent a nocturnal hawk-
moth.

Dr. J. C. Merrill, of Columbus Barracks, Ohio, sent a nest and eggs
of Acadian fly-catchers.

Lieut. P. H. Ray, Fort Gaston, Cal., gathered a large and valuable
collection of ethnological objects used by the Hoopa Natano and Kla-
math Kenuck bands of Indians in California.

Dr. Samuel Q. Robinson, U. S. Army, sent an American Egret.

Charles Ruby, U. 8. Army, of Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming, con-
tributed the following specimens: Indian saddle, axolotl, necks and
tongues of two horned owls, gopher skins, and spermophiles.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. Army, of Fort Wingate, N. Mex., has con-
tinued his valuable assistance to the Museum, and has sent large col.
lections of birds, reptiles, insects, mammals, ete.

From the Surgeon-General of the Army was received a collection of
513 erania and 322 skeletons, which were eliminated from the collec-
tions of the Army Medical Museum during its reorganization. Many
of these were improperly mounted, however, and not of sufficient value
to be placed in the exhibition series, and are useful only for purpeses of
study.

U. 8S. Signal Service.—General A. W. Greely contributed some bones
of Atlantic walrus and Polar bear, obtained by him while in the Arctic
regions. é

J. W. Johnson, of Fort Alexander, Alaska, sent a collection of eth-
nological objects, fossils, shells, stone implements, and bird skins.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy, while stationed in Corea, for-
forwarded a valuable collection of Corean material, including table-ware,
bottles, water jars, wine-cups, drugs, musical instruments, fabrics, fishes,
turtles, marine invertebrates, cephalopods, ethnological objects, ete.

Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, stationed in Alaska, contributed a wooden mask,
war knife, and a pipe taken from the Indian graves in southeastern
Alaska.

Dr. J. T. Bransford, while in Nicaragua, forwarded a collection of
the fishes, reptiles, and birds of that country.

Dr. W. H. Jones sent a collection of fishes, insects, and a water-
snake from Panama.

Admiral J. KE. Jouett contributed an agouti from Central America.

Lieut. W. A. Mintzer donated several Corean coins.

Lieut. H. E. Nichols sent from Sitka, Alaska, a collection of alligator
fishes.

Commodore R. W. Shufeldt contributed a Damascus sword and eight
small ivory and gold-mounted knives of Arabian manufacture.

Dr. T. H. Streets, passed assistant surgeon, contributed a collection
of fishes, shell, reptiles, marine invertebrates, ete.

i i
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69

Bureau of Navigation.—A collection of marine invertebrates made
by the U. S. steamer Enterprise; in the South Pacific and Atlantic
Oceans, was transferred to the Museum.

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

U. S. General Land Office—A large collection of minerals, ores, and
building stones, exhibited by this office at the New Orleans Exposition,
was, at the close of the exposition, transferred to the Museum.

U. 8. Geological Survey.—Numerous collections, large and small, were
received from the U. S. Survey, among which were the following: Miner-
als and rocks from California, Kentucky, New Mexico, North Carolina,
and Alabama; silver ore from Nevada; a large collection of plants
from the Yellowstone National Park; birds’ nests from Virginia; natu-
ral coke, furnace slag, reptiles; marine shells from Florida; fossil wood
and berries, and relics from Orangeburgh, S. C.; stalagmite deposit,
containing bones of animals, from Cartersville, Ga., and collections of
Trenton, Devonian, Carboniferous, Silurian, and Ordovician fossils.

There was also received a series of geological relief maps of Mount
Taylor, New Mexico; Washoe district, Nevada; Uinta and Wasatch
Mountains; Eureka district, Nevada; Leadville and vicinity; high
plateaus of Utah; Elk Mountains (colored); Ruby Hill Mines, Nevada
(model); Leadville (dissected); Henry Mountains, Utah. Topograph-
ical models of the Yosemite Valley, Yellowstone National Park, ancient
province of Tusayan. Models of the following mounds: Great Serpent;
section of Little Etowah; Pit of Nelson; Great Htowah; Linn, and
Great Elephant, five cliff ruin models and seven pueblo models.

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received a model of Wejegi, one
of the Chaco ruins, prepared under the direction of the Bureau, and
seventeen photographs of Osage and Ute Indians; life-size busts of
“ Prairie Chicken” and ‘“ Little Wolf,” and some Zuni gods. Twenty-
two boxes of pottery, baskets, and blankets were also transmitted to the
Museum.

GOVERNMENT ASYLUM FOR THE INSANE,

Dr. W. W. Godding, Superintendent, sent a black bear.
U. S. FISH COMMISSION.

The material received from the Fish Commission consisted of collec-
tions of fishes, marine invertebrates, mollusks, reptiles, birds, mam-
mals, insects, oysters, porpoises, stone implements, bones, birds’ nests
and eggs, rushes, etc. Mr. James E. Benedict, of the Fish Commission,
sent a carrying basket, obtained by him on Cozumel [sland, and a water-
vessel from Old Providence Island. Col. Marshall McDonald sent sev-
eral large collections of fishes, reptiles, cray fishes, insects, fungi, marine
70 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

invertebrates, etc. Mr.C. H. Townsend sent from California a collection
of birds, mammal skins, and fishes, and from Alaska a skin canoe, fossil
shells, actinians, bird skeletons, mammals, birds, ete.

6. REPORT UPON THE EXHIBIT MADE BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU-
TION AT THE NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION.

BY R. EDWARD EARLL.

In accordance with an executive order of May 13, 1884, there was
organized a Board of Government Commissioners charged with making
the necessary arrangements for a general Government display at three
exhibitions, namely, the Southern Exposition at Louisville, Ky., open-
ing August 16 and continuing until October 25; the Cincinnati Indus-
trial Exposition to be held at Cincinnati, Ohio, between September 3
and October 4; and the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Ex-
position at New Orleans, beginning December 16, 1884, and continuing
till May 31, 1885. The board consisted of one representative from each
of the Government Departments; and, in addition, a representative
from the Smithsonian Institution, including the U. S. National Museum
and the U.S. Fish Commission; and one from the Department of Agri.
culture.

To this board were referred all questions relating to the participation
by the Government in the various exhibitions. Each Representative
was charged with the preparation of an exhibit for the Department.
with which he was connected, and the funds placed to its credit by Con-
gress were to be disbursed under his direction. Prof. G. Brown Goode,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the
U.S. National Museum, who had represented the U. S. Fish Commis-
sion at the Fisheries Exhibition at Berlin in 1880, and that at London
in 1883, was nominated by Professor Baird, to represent the three or-
ganizations above named, and a day or two later he received an official
appointment from the President of the United States. The board held
an informal conference in Washington, beginning May 7, for the pur-
pose of drawing up an outline of the work in connection with the several
expositions, and for submitting estimates of the amount of money re-
quired by each Department for preparing a satisfactory exhibit.. The
passage of the bill authorizing the expenditure of money in connec-
tion with these exhibitions was considerably delayed, and the funds
did not become available until July 7. At this time there were placed
to the credit of the Smithsonian Institution $75,000 for the preparation
of exhibits for the exposition at New Orleans, with $2,500 additional
for Louisville and $2,300 for Cineinnati. Only a few weeks remained
before the opening of the two last-named exhibitions, and the exhibit
for each of these, owing to the limited time remaining, was necessarily
less complete than it would otherwise have been; though the work was
pushed vigorously, beginning immediately after the appropriations be-
came available, and continuing till a few days before the opening of

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ek

the exhibitions, when the exhibits were shipped and officers of the
Museum proceeded to the respective cities to see to the proper installa-
tion of the collections.

THE EXHIBIT AT LOUISVILLE.

In 1883 the people of Louisville obtained control of a large plat of
ground within easy access of the city and erected a building 920 feet by
630 feet, with extensive galleries, where they held a large and success-
ful exposition, continuing for three months. The exposition of 1884 was
held under the same auspices and in the same building, opening August
16 and closing October 25.

Immediately upon the passage of the bill by Congress, correspond-
ence was opened with the management of the exposition, and space
obtained in different portions of the building for the several Executive
Departments, 4,500 feet being assigned to the Smithsonian Institution,
in one of the most prominent locations. The time being short, the work
of preparing the exhibit was vigorously prosecuted, and on August 12
three cars, containing ninety-five cases, with a weight of 23,553 pounds,
were shipped. These arrived at Louisville on the morning of the 16th,
and by the evening of the 19th were fully installed.

The industrial interests of Kentucky were taken into consideration
in deciding upon the character of the exhibit, which it was thought

desirable to make as instructive as possible. It was largely an educa-
tional exhibit, showing the processes of manufacture of raw materials
which are abundant in the State, to which were added specimens illus-
trating certain subjects which it was thought would prove both novel
and interesting to the people of Kentucky. One of the prominent feat-
ures of the exhibit was a large collection showing the process of manu-
facturing textiles from raw materials, including flax, hemp, jute, grasses,
and silk. <A collection illustrative of articles derived from the animal
kingdom was also shown. This included a series of furs, another of
crude and manufactured leathers, a third of natural and ornamental
Shells and shell-work, a fourth illustrating the uses of feathers in the
arts, and a fifth showing the manufacture and uses of glues derived
from the sounds, bones, and skins of various species of fish. An ex-
tensive collection of photographs and drawings, illustrative of the
great ocean fisheries of the New England coast, was also shown. The
whale fishery was illustrated by means of a full-sized whale-boat, fully
equipped with sails, oars, harpoons, lines, and guns; also by a model of
a whale-ship with a whale alongside, showing the method of stripping
the blubber and trying it out on the vessel’s deck; and by paintings
of whaling scenes. The other fisheries, including those for cod, mack-
erel, menhaden, and herring, and the apparatus and methods of fish-
culture, were fully shown by models of the most important vessels and
boats, and by a series of photographs, 30 by 40 inches, neatly framed,
and mounted on screens. The natural history collections included
72 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

representations of nearly all of the snakes and reptiles found in the
United States, and a fine series of many of the water-birds of the
country.

An attendant was left in charge of the exhibits during the continu-
ance of the exposition, and at its close the collections were carefully
packed and a majority of them forwarded direct to New Orleans, a
few being returned to Washington to be remounted, as a part of larger
and more complete collections, before shipping to the New Orleans
Exposition.

THE EXHIBIT AT CINCINNATI.

The Cincinnati Industrial Exposition is an institution of some years’
standing, and receives the cordial support of the most prominent busi-
ness men of the city. Expositions have been held here with consid-
erable regularity, and a suitable and substantial brick building has
been erected by the management. It is located in the heart of the
city, and the attendance is usually large. For the season of 1884 the
Exposition opened on September 3, closing on the 4th of the following
month.

As most of the space was allotted before the bill authorizing Govern-
ment participation in the Exposition had become a law, a second build-
ing, to accommodate the Government exhibits, was found necessary, and
the management erected a temporary structure near the main entrance,
having dimensions of 50 by 200 feet. This was divided between the
several Departments, 3,322 square feet, or nearly one-third of the entire
building, being allotted the Smithsonian Institution. This space was
situated at one end of the structure, thus admitting of a satisfactory
and very pleasing installation.

As soon as the Louisville exhibits were in place, the work of prepar-
ing those for Cincinnati was vigorously pushed, and the entire collec-
tion, consisting of eighty cases, with a weight of 24,321 pounds, was
shipped on August 26, reaching the exposition on September 1. A
very large force of men was at once set to work to unpack and install
the exhibits, and by the opening of the exposition the arrangement was
practically completed.

As at Louisville, the exhibits were largely educational, and included
such objects as it was thought would be most appreciated by those
who saw them. One of thestriking features was an alcove contain-
ing a collection illustrative of the social life and industries of the Es-
kimo and the Indians of the Northwest coast; the dwellings, house-
hold utensils, and implements of war, hunting, and fishing, as well as
the arts of the two races, being shown in such a manner as to afford
accurate means of comparison. A life-size bust, in plaster, of one of the
prominent Indian chiefs, and portraits in oil of thirteen others, were
also exhibited. Another important feature was a large and valuable
collection of minerals yielding gems and ornamental stones. The nat-
ural history department contained a small but choice collection of taxi-

———E—— trl sm
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ris)

dermy, including game and water-birds, sparrows, and a few mammals,
while a number of Audubon’s colored plates of North American birds
were framed and hung upon the walls. Two cases were devoted to
large collection of plaster casts of the more common snakes and turtles
of the United States. The methods and apparatus employed in the
great ocean fisheries and in fish-culture were graphically represented
by means of two extensive series of photographs, the larger series be-
ing solar enlargements, having dimensions of 30 by 40 inches. In the
fisheries section was also shown a large and valuable collection of plas-
ter casts of the important food-fishes of the country, including both
fresh and salt water species. The collection of textile fabrics was very
complete, including samples of many American and foreign fabrics,
from the cheapest to the most expensive. Two alcoves, which attracted
considerable attention, were devoted to photo-lithographs of Japanese
pottery, and to a large collection of photographs showing the art and
sculpture of the early Saxons.

As at Louisville, the collections were placed in charge of an attend-
ant, who looked after the interests of the Smithsonian during the con-
tinuance of the Exposition, and at its close the exhibits were packed,
and the bulk of them shipped to New Orleans, to be installed with
other exhibits at the Exposition in that city.

NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION.

It was not definitely known until the passage of the appropriations
for the New Orleans Exposition what amount of money would be placed
to the credit of the Smithsonian Institution, and it was, therefore, im-
possible to make any definite and detailed plans in connection with this
work; but when the amount so appropriated had been ascertained, the
plans were matured, and immediately upon the shipment of the ma-
terials to the expositions at Louisville and Cincinnati, attention was
turned to the work of collecting, arranging, mounting, and labeling
materials for New Orleans.

A force was organized by Professor Goode for this work, of which Mr.
R. Edward Earll was the executive officer and Mr. W. V. Cox was the
financial agent. The curators of several departments of the Museam
were designated by Professor Goode to undertake the preparation of
special exhibits for their respective departments, and definite sums of
money were placed at their disposal for this work. Such assistants as
were needed were furnished to each department for the preparation
and mounting of material; and much of the duplicate material under
their charge in the Museum was utilized. A number of the curators
visited different localities for the purpose of obtaining specimens to
complete their series. Much of the material exhibited at Louisville
and Cincinnati was forwarded direct to New Orleans immediately
upon the close of those expositions, and by the middle of Novem-
ber the shipping of material from Washington was begun, and the en-
74 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

tire collection, consisting of seventeen car-loads, was forwarded within
a few weeks.

A separate building was provided for the display of Government and
State exhibits, this being 885 feet long by 565 feet wide. A strip 185
feet wide, extending entirely across the center of the building, was as-
signed to the Government Departments, the space on either side being
assigned to the several States, the Educational Exhibit, the Woman’s
Department and the exhibits of the colored people, occupying the gal-
leries of the building. Ata meeting of the Government board for the
assignment of space to the various Departments, a strip 20 feet wide,
extending entirely across the center of the building, was set apart for a
main aisle or thoroughfare; the remaining space was distributed
among the different Departments, the Smithsonian occupying a posi-
tion immediately at the left of the main or Prytania street entrance,
824 feet wide, and extending along the central aisle for a distance of 300
feet, or to a point somewhat beyond the center of the building, and,
in addition, the two large offices adjoining the entrance. On December
6, Professor Goode, accompanied by Mr. Earll, left Washington for New
Orleans, for the purpose of making preliminary arrangements and su-
pervising the installation of the exhibits, having been preceded by Mr.
Henry Horan, with a force of mechanics and trained workmen from the
National Museum, consisting of Messrs. Reed, Deery, Kenyon, Neale,
and Wallingsford. As soon as the exhibits arrived telegrams were sent
to a number of the curators who had prepared the collections for their
several departments. These reported in person or by representative to
make the necessary installation of their material. Such additional labor
as was required was obtained in New Orleans, and the work of install-
ing the exhibits was pushed as rapidly as possible, until everything was
finally awranged, after which the curators and mechanics returned to
Washington.

The Smithsonian space, covering an area, exclusive of offices, of
24,750 feet, was divided among the different departments as follows:

Square feet.
PDN NOLO Gy abe ee. ice oars sek ceeicbh ce aenlere merenere a cles natalene fauslelers 5 falta are 1, 904
TOM MONOC Ye sot est. Sosa conor masons s oa nelaae a Se) ea eee as aac Sante ne 406
PEP UGR EES tere 2 Sey Be ice hee ae SS De PSO RV ARS BNR se een See isto” |
NavyaleaArehitecture 22220. -\-t258. Rs sis ee se alba Di Geers ora ete 686
(OTA DHERERETA: iho 0 oe one mo peeled oe cate en ee one ian halen ee eet ee 652
Risheneswand Fish-culvure. co... asc ceo cacscm swan sac Nate aee Neneeten= meron eeetete 2, 345
PETA IOP TOURCUS. occccateoen tec ool ohie cs acer eco Ske aie ieee eee iene Aleta 2, 400
IOI SONVITTT SRL s a ic 2 eRe TORS FBC SEN Sa rer cc ee 1, 082
Exhibit of Society of American Taxidermists.--..---- PEACE OU E POS aL. 595
Levis Gace SS SR ae Rene ee ge SE Re Re oe ee ome caOcd 15. oe 540
REM plese aaah cc in< sno joes ee eee biceitck ou ck las eels pee eee eer eerste ean 300
IVI TITERS tees oc cc RU ee rn oy US on ces a
Min Grasmere ee soctec sls 2 Sao oko ele See pista aie alten = 72. oialle ieee ira ta oii ee ett 1, 290
Dithology and Physical Geology <S.2.400.0 22 06h. . 24 ee eee ene eee
Metallurgy and Economic @eology....-.-.....------ 22-2 eee eee ee ee ee eee ee 2,274
Workshop ccisctscedws cecihs pestle Bes Bee ee eee eee BE? reas 500

BiBIG BPBOE owes s's ses. de mays ecacur adewevasete eweeax = nen anin eee eee re are meee 6, 450
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 05

Professor Goode remained until after the opening of the Exposition,
when pressing duties at Washington required his return. In his ab-
sence, Mr. Earll was designated as Deputy Representative, with Mr. M.
P. Snell as secretary, and W. H. Abbott, Arthur Brauer, and HK. W.
Atfield as assistants, these constituting the permanent force during
the continuance of the Exposition. Mr. J. Warner Edwards, of Phila-
delphia, a scientist of wide experience, and a specialist in mineralogy,
crystallography, and lithology, who was spending the winter at New
Orleans, kindly volunteered his services, which were very gladly ac-
cepted. Mr. Edwards remained during the entire period of the expo-
sition, and rendered the most valuable assistance, not only in connec-
tion with the departments in which he was especially interested, but
in the general work of administration. :

THE ETHNOLOGICAL EXHIBIT.

The ethnological exhibit prepared under the direction of Prof. Otis T.
Mason, curator of the department of ethnology, consisted of a collec-
tion illustrating the social condition of the various tribes of North
American Indians and Eskimos. It contained a large series of the cos-
tumes, weapons of war and chase, household utensils, tools, and games
of the different tribes, with samples of their basketry and decorative
work, including painting and carving, with full-sized busts, in plaster,
of several of the leading chiefs. This exhibit occupied twenty-seven
cases, the educational idea, which was carefully worked out being prom-
inent in its arrangement.

Adjoining this department were six cases set apart for the archzo
logical collections, consisting of stone implements from various localities
in North America, arranged and mounted under the direction of Dr.
Charles Rau, curator of the department of prehistoric anthropology.

TEXTILE EXHIBIT.

A large and interesting collection of textiles was prepared under the
direction of Mr. Romyn Hitchcock, acting eurator of the section of text-
iles. This collection was intended primarily to show the numerous
fibers used in the manufacture of textiles, and, as far as practicable, the
different stages of preparation and the processes of manufacture, begin-
ning with the raw material and ending with the finished product. It was
not limited to American fibers, but incladed textiles from the Philippine
Islands, Japan, China, Siam, Spain, Portugal, England, and other coun-
tries. Prominent among the exhibits were esparto grass, agavi fibers,

_ jute, flax, Spanish hemp, ramie, Chinese grass cloth, a large collection
of raw cotton and cotton cloths, a collection of silk, including the cocoons
and raw silk and the manufactured goods. The collection also contained
specimens illustrating the manufacture of hair-cloth and carpets of
various kinds. The whole was neatly mounted in standard Museum
76 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

trays, each specimen being provided with a printed descriptive label.
The collection filled twenty-one standard cases, occupying floor-space
of more than 1,600 square feet.

EXHIBIT OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE.

The preparation of a collection illustrating the development of the
vessels of the merchant marine was undertaken by Capt. J. W. Collins,
of the U.S. Fish Commission, who visited the different centers of the ship-
building industry and obtained builders’ models of vessels of different

types, the series beginning with the primitive forms, and ending with *

those of the most modern pattern. Prominent among these were
models showing the development of cotton ships. In addition to
the above were exhibited several fine models, belonging to the section
of naval architecture in the National Museum. ‘These included a full-
rigged whaling-ship, a Chinese war-junk, and a three-masted schooner
of modern build. Messrs. Higgins & Gifford, a firm engaged exten-
sively in the manufacture of all kinds of sail-boats, row-boats, and
yachts, sent an interesting collection showing the different types of
boats manufactured by them, including a model of the dory ‘ Centen-
nial,” the smallest boat that ever crossed the ocean.

THE ART EXHIBIT.

A collection to illustrate the growth of art was prepared by Prof. G,
Brown Goode. It consisted of about one hundred and twenty auto-
types, representing the most noted pictures of the principal artists of
the world arranged chronologically by countries. The collection began
with Cimabue, the most noted artist of the thirteenth century, and con
tained representations of the work of prominent artists from that time
to the present.

In addition to the foregoing, the collection contained a very interest-
ing series of autotypes representing noted pieces of sculpture, these
being confined chiefly to representations of the works of Greek and
Italian sculptors.

Besides the autotypes, there was an exhibit prepared by the Photo-
Engraving Company, of New York, to illustrate the process of photo-
engraving; another, prepared by H. C. Whitcomb & Co., illustrating
the process of stereotyping; and a third, by the same firm, showing
the most modern methods of electrotyping. — +

THE FISHERIES AND FISH-CULTURAL EXHIBITS.

The collection illustrating the fisheries consisted of about one hundred
and fifty framed photographs, solar enlargements, and drawings in
crayon illustrative of the apparatus and methods employed in the sea
and river fisheries of the United States, and, in addition, a very com-
plete collection of models in plaster of the principal food-fishes of North
America, including both the marine and fresh-water species. There
were also exhibited a series of diagrams prepared by Prof. W. O. At-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. tel

water showing the nutritive qualities of the leading food-fishes, and
tabulated statements of the nutritive values of fish as compared with
other foods. The exhibit also contained a full-sized whale-boat, thor-
oughly equipped with apparatus for the capture of whales, including
not only the old-style hand harpoons and lauces, but also the modern
swivel-gun and the explosive cartridge used in connection with the
same.

The fish-cultural exhibit, prepared under the direction of Col. Mar-
*shall MeDonald, of the U. 8S. Fish Commission, consisted of a series of
six tables containing hatching apparatus in which the embryos of the
whitefish, salmon, and other species were kept during their develop-
ment, and small aquaria in which the newly hatched fry were exhibited,
In addition there were six large aquaria containing a number of differ-
ent species of fish from the ponds of the U. 8. Fish Commission at
Washington, including the goJd-fish, golden ide, German carp, trout,
salmon, and other kinds. There was also a series containing numer-
ous forms of hatching apparatus used at different hatcheries belonging
to the U. 8S. Fish Commission, and models of various kinds of fish-
ladders or fish-ways. Arrangements were made with the management
of the Exposition for having a supply of water for conducting the
hatching operations, and at intervals of two or three weeks quan-
tities of eggs of different species were shipped to New Orleans and
placed in the hatching apparatus, where they were allowed to remain
until hatched. This exhibit was, perhaps, the most popular in the en-
tire exhibition, and during the time when clear water could be obtained
and the young fish were hatching, a majority of the people attending
the exposition found their way to the space, some of them lingering
for hours.

On February 18, Colonel McDonald arrived with U. 8. Fish Commis-
sion car No. 3, containing a full equipment of hatching and transport-
ing apparatus. This car was placed on a side track at the Prytania
street entrance of the exhibition, adjoining the Smithsonian space, and
was open for inspection daily from 8 in the morning until 6 in the
evening. In it were shown not only the processes of hatching, but
also the methods employed in transferring the fry to waters very remote
from the hatchery. After the fish-cultural exhibit had been installed,
Colonel McDonald returned to Washington, and J. Frank Ellis was
placed in charge of the car, and James Carswell assumed control of
the fish-cultural display in the Smithsonian space in the Government
building. The car remained until the middle of May, when it was re-
called, to be used in the distribution of shad from the Fish Commission
stations in Washington and Maryland.

THE FISH COMMISSION STEAMER ALBATROSS.

The steamer Albatross, belonging to the U. S. Fish Commission, was
engaged during the winter of 188485 in an investigation of the eur-
78 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

rents, temperature, and life of the ocean in the vicinity of the West
Indies and in portions of the Gulf of Mexico. By permission of the
U. 8S. Commissioner of Fisheries, the vessel made a visit of a few days
to New Orleans. On her arrival in that city the exposition manage-
ment placed a portion of the exposition wharf at her disposal, where
the steamer was thrown open for inspection by visitors to the exposi-
tion as a part of the exhibit of the U. 5. Fish Commission. The ap-
paratus employed in her scientific investigations was arranged on deck ;
and interesting forms of marine life recently taken in the deep waters °
of the Gulf of Mexico were removed from the tanks and placed in glass
bottles in the steamer’s laboratory, where they could be viewed by
those who were interested. At the request of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, an
efficient corps of officers and scientists remained constantly on duty to
inform the visitors of the general character of the work in which the
steamer was engaged, and to explain the workings of the apparatus.
After a stay of ten days, during which time she was visited by a very
large number of people, she left the exposition in order to resume her
work which had been temporarily discontinued.

THE ANIMAL PRODUCTS EXHIBIT.

Adjoining the fish-cultural exhibit was a large collection of material
showing the products of the animal kingdom, and, as far as practicable,
the methods employed in their preparation. In this collection were shown
the methods of utilizing the hair, fur, feathers, skin, scales, flesh, bones,
horn, teeth, claws, viscera, and excrements of various animals. Por-
tions of this collection were very complete, the exhibit of furs, for ex-
ample, containing specimens of nearly every fur-bearing animal in the
United States. The collection was installed in thirty-five cases, occu-
pying a floor space of 2,400 square feet.

At one end of this collection, and serving as a connecting link be-
tween it and the natural history department, were several cases illus-
trating the methods employed in the capture of animals. In these were
shown, either by models or pictures, various forms of traps used in
different portions of the country by the Indians and whites in the capt-
ure of birds, mammals, and fishes.

MAMMAL EXHIBIT.

As soon as it became evident that the Smithsonian Institution would
be required to send material to New Orleans, the subject of getting a
large and complete exhibit of the mammals of the country was dis-
cussed; but when the definite amount of the appropriation was ascer-
tained it became necessary to materially change the plan, in order to
bring the exhibit within its proportional limit as compared with other
departments. The exhibit was prepared under the direction of Mr.
F. W. True, curator of the department of mammals, and from his
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. i

Museum report on the subject the following description has been ob-
tained :

Tt was intended that the entire existing mammalian fauna of North America from
the Isthmus of Panama northward should be exhibited species by species, both
by skins or casts and skeletons, and that some of thé more important extinct fauna
should be restored. This plan necessarily suffered nvuch modification after a short
time, when it was found that neither money, time, nor inaterials sufficient to assemble
such a collection before the opening of the exposition, were at command.

With the intention, however, of having every important species represented, the
curator visited the establishments of all the principal dealers in natural history ma-
terial, and the collection of duplicates in the Museum was also drawn upon very
largely. It was found that only a very small number of species were anywhere on
sale, and that the Museum must rely upon its own resources. This it was able to do
to a very considerable extent, although it was found necessary to withdraw some
mounted specimens from the regular exhibition series; a proceeding which the cura-
tor carried out with great reluctance.

The total number of specimens exhibited was one hundred and sixty, representing
one hundred and fifty species and varieties. The series includes all the North Amer-
ican ruminants except the musk-ox; all the important carnivores, both aquatic and
terrestrial (especially the fur-bearing family, Mustelide) ; all the native beneficial or
noxious rodents; representative species of porpoises; the manatees; and the more
characteristic monkeys, sloths, bats, and insectivores. In addition, a series intending
to represent all the orders of the class mammalia was prepared. ,

The collection was exhibited in four large cases, except the ruminants, for which
a separate large terraced stand was provided. The first case contained the cats, dogs,
bears, etc.; the second, the seals and whales; the third, the monkeys, weasels, bats,
and insectivores, and the first group of rodents, the endentates and opossums, and
the series representing the orders of mammalia. The large terraced stand, as already
stated, supported only the ruminants.

It will be observed that this coilection, although considerably smaller in point of
number of specimens than that exhibited at the Centennial Exposition, still con-
tained representatives of almost the same number of species. ;

In addition to the specimens already mentioned, another small series was sent to
New Orleans, representing the character of work done in connection with the depart-
ment of osteology. It was at first intended that the different species of animals should
be represented by skeletons as well as by mounted skins, but this plan was in the end
found impracticable and was finally abandoned.

Mr. William T. Hornaday, chief taxidermist of the National Museum,
visited New Orleans for the purpose of unpacking and installing this

collection.
THE BIRD EXHIBIT.

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of the department of birds, was charged
with the collection and preparation of the material for this exhibit. It
consisted largely of specimens selected by him from the duplicates of
the collections under his charge, these being finely mounted with a
view to their display at the exposition. From Mr. Ridgway’s report on
these collections the following description is obtained:

The department of birds prepared for exhibition at the New Orleans Exposition a -
collection of North American game birds numbering one hundred and sixty-three

finely mounted specimens, and representing nearly all the species. The exhibit was
at first intended to be much more comprehensive, the original plan being to exhibit
80 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

all the known species of North American birds, so far as could be secured, together
with typical groups to illustrate the avian faun® of the several zoogeographical di-
visions of the earth’s surface. The collection had been nearly completed on the origi-
nal plan when it became necessary, on account of the limited space available at New
Orleans, to greatly reduce the exhibit, and to limit if to the game birds above men-
tioned. This collection was installed by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, assistant curator,
who left Washington January 3, and returned on the 16th of the month. The collec-
tion filled two double museum cases, fitted with rows of terraced shelves. Each
specimen was mounted on a stand of polished black walnut, and provided with a
printed label, on which were given, in large, clear type, both the scientific and popu-
lar names,
THE REPTILE EXHIBIT.

This exhibit included a large and exhaustive series of life size models
in plaster of the turtles and snakes of North America, each having
been carefully colored by Mr. Schindler from living specimens or from
colored sketches.

THE MOLLUSK EXHIBIT.

The exhibit in this department was prepared under the direction of
Dr. William H. Dall, curator of the department of mollusks in the Na-
tional Museum, and Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, assistant curator. Dr. Dall,
in his report for 1885, described it as follows:

The exhibit in this department of natural history probably surpassed in extent and
general excellence any previously made at the great expositions. It was arranged
in twenty-one flat table cases, the specimens being placed in trays inside of the cases,
and each of the trays fully labeled.

The general system followed was a geographical one, and presented a characteristic
representation of the more conspicuous and interesting forms of the various zoogeo-
graphical provinces.

The exhibit included several cases of the fresh-water mussels (Unienide) of the
Mississippi drainage area, remarkable for the great number and beauty of the shells,
also the rare and peculiar forms belonging to this group from other parts of the world,
The land and pond snails of the Mississippi basin were each represented by a single
case.

The marine shells of the Atlantic coast of America from the Arctic Sea to the Carib-
bean, and the sea shells of the Pacific coast from Bering Sea to Panama, including
the primcipal species inhabiting the tidal areas of Puget Sound, to the north, and the
Gulf of California, to the south, were similarly displayed.

Other cases contained selected specimens from the Indo-Pacific region, such as live
in the great coral areas of the warm seas between western America and eastern Asia.

Four cases were devoted to the edible mollusca of the United States. Two ot these
contained the clams, cockles, ete., of the Atlantic sea-board, and in the other two
were exhibited those of the shores of western America, from Alaska to San Diego.

The preparation of the material was completed under the supervision of Dr. Stearns,
who visited New Orleans and gave his attention to the proper installation and label-
ing of the exhibit.

EXHIBIT OF THE SOCIETY OF AMERICAN TAXIDERMISTS.

At the invitation of the Smithsonian Institution the Society of Ameri-
can Taxidermists prepared for exhibition at New Orleans a series of
specimens illustrative of the work of members of that society. Mr.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY 81

William T. Hornaday, president, and Mr. F. A. Lucas, secretary, gave
their personal attention to obtaining and arranging the material. The
exhibit was large and instructive, occupying a floor space of nearly
600 quare feet. It contained specimens of the best work of the leading
members of the society, including Messrs. Hornaday, Lucas, Fraine,
Webster, William Palmer, Joseph Palmer, Hedley, Forney, Bailly,
Wallace, Jeremiah, and Richardson.

THE MINERAL EXHIBIT.

The exhibit of minerals was collected and arranged under the di-
rection of Prof. F. W. Clarke, curator of the department of minerals,
and Mr. W.S. Yeates, assistant curator. From the annual report of the
curator the following account of the exhibit is taken:

The department of minerals was represented at the New Orleans Exposition by a
collection of the minerals which afford gems and ornamental stones, and by a collec-
tion of cut and polished stones. The minerals were classified after Dana’s system, and
were displayed in seven flat-top table cases. The gems were more difficult to classify,
it not being possible to arrange them with advantage, according to their chemical
constitution. The best arrangement seemed to be one which would have reference
to their intrinsic value; but it was found more convenient to allow the more un-
common stones a place near the lower end of the case in which the gems were exhib-
ited. The second and last cases began with quartzes, and was followed by the feld-
spars and other ornamental stones. The specimens in these two cases were mounted
on white and black velvet pads, which displayed them to great advantage.

The exhibit was arranged by Mr. Yeates, who visited New Orleans for that purpose.

THE LITHOLOGICAL EXHIBIT.

Under the direction of Mr. George P. Merrill, acting curator of the
department of lithology and physical geology in the National Museum,
a large collection of materials was prepared for New Orleans. Many
of the specimens in this exhibit were taken from the duplicates belong-
ing to the National Museum, but in order to complete the series Mr.
Merrill visited numerous quarries and obtained suitable specimens,
many of them being cut and polished before shippisg. Mr. Merrill has
given the following account of the exhibit prepared by him:

This exhibit consisted of (1) acollection of three hundred and fifty-eight speci-
mens of building and ornamental stones in the form of 4-inch cubes; (2) a collec-
tion of some twelve specimens of foreign and native marbles in the form of polished
slabs ; (3) a collection of one hundred and fifty specimens of rock-forming minerals ;
(4) a collection called a “structural series,” intended to represent all the more com-
mon forms of rockstructure and texture ; (5) a collection of one hundred and ninety-
eight specimens of rock illustrating the geology and lithology of the Comstock Lode
and Washoe district, Nevada; and (6) alithological collection comprising five hun-
dred specimens of rock of various kinds and from many sources, both native and
foreign, this last, together with collections number three and four, forming a part of
the regular educational series of the Museum.

Mr. Merrill went to New Orleans and arranged his exhibit, which was
neatly installed, the collection occupying a floor space of nearly 400
square feet.

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2—6
82 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
THE METALLURGICAL EXHIBIT.

One of the largest exhibits in the Smithsonian collection at the ex-
position was that prepared under the direction of Mr. Fred P. Dewey,
curator of metallurgy and economic geology, who, with several assist-
ants, devoted his entire time, for several months prior to the exposition,
to the collection and arrangement of materials, James Temple Brown
being detailed to make a special collection of coals and articles illus-
trating the processes of coal mining. From Mr. Dewey’s report the fol-
lowing account of the exhibit is taken:

In the first division of this collection—that of economic geology —it was designed
to exhibit collections illustrating the different kinds and grades of the ores of each
metal, and also a few collections of non-metallic minerals of economic importance.

In the second division—tbhat of metallurgy—it was designed to exhibit collections
representing the processes for the extraction of the metals from their ores by speci-
mens, where practicable, filling the gaps by means of illustrations and.descriptions,
and accompanying them by general illustrations and descriptions, so as to fully ex-
plain these processes.

The ore collection was made up with a view to represent all the different varieties
of each ore and many of the most prominent mining regions.

The Lake Superior copper region was very thoroughly represented, both on account
of the value of the mines, and as representing the kind of collections it is desirable for
the Museum to possess to illustrate aregion or mine. The region was represented by
three prominent mines, showing three different and characteristic occurrences of the
ore. Inthe first place, the so-called mass mines, which are characterized by the occur-
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many tons of metal
in a single mass, were represented by the Central Mine. Mines of this kind also carry
considerable quantities of disseminated free copper. In the second place, the amygda-
loid mines, which are distinguished by the occurrence of free copper in amygdules,
bunches, strings, and sheets, from the size of a pin-point up to a few hundred pounds
in weight, disseminated in a soft amygdaloid trap-rock, were represented by the
Osceola Mine. In the next place, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by
the presence of free copper mostly in the form of strings in a hard conglomerate of
ferruginous quartz pebbles, were typified by the Conglomerate Mine.

Taking the Conglomerate Mine as an example, the collection showed, first, the gen-
eral character of the ore and the inclosing wall rocks; secondly, the occurrence of the
ore at various prominent points in the mine, which were accurately located; and,
thirdly, a section of the rocks over a distance of 631 feet, by specimens taken at suita-
ble distances to illustrate the different characters and changes of the material.

The collection in economic geology included placer gold, gold quartz, auriferous
gravel, auriferous pyrite, tellutide ores, iridium (iridosmine), native silver, wire sil-
ver, horn silver, ruby silver, base ores carrying silver, argentiferous lead ores, tin
ores, sulphide ores of antimony, cinnabar, sulphide ores of lead ; native copper, includ-
ing water-worn specimens ; mass copper, chips, amygdaloid and conglomerate dissem-
inated free metal, sulphides of iron and copper, oxides, oxidized ores of bismuth, sul-
phide ores of nickel and cobalt, five hundred specimens of iron ores showing all the
different kinds of iron ore found in the country, manganese ore, ores of zinc ; anthra-
cite, semi-bituminous, bituminous, splint, and cannel coal, and a large collection il-
lustrating the methods of coal mining, including large photographs (taken by elec-
tric light) of the interior of a coal mine, the first views of the kind ever produced ;
native sulphur, and iron pyrites.

In making up the metallurgical collection it was not possible to exhibit the pro-
duction of each metal exhaustively, owing to the small amount of suitable material
previously in the department and the short space of time available for making new
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83

collections. A few systematic illustrations of metallurgical operations were shown.
It was thought best to treat a few subjects thoroughly rather than a large number
superficially. After suitable consideration, a few representative works were selected
for illustration, and were worked up as completely as possible.

Beginning with the ore as mined, each step in its preparation for smelting was
shown, together with the by or waste products of such treatment. To illustrate the
smelting operation, the ores, the fuels, the fluxes, and every other material entering
the process, each product of each operation up to the final product of the works was
shown. To these were added, where practicable, illustrations of materials of con-
struction, such as fire-clays, sands, etc. The furnaces and tools were shown by
specimens, views, and descriptions. The interest and value of these collections did
not lay so much in the specimens themselves as in their being thoroughly connected,
and in the kiad and amount of information that was given in regard to them.

The collections in metallurgy comprised collections illustrating the extraction of
gold and silver; the manufacture of lead, steel, coke, sulphuric acid, and alloys; the
smelting and refining of copper, iron, and zinc. There was also illustrated the prac-
tical application of the non-metallic ores by specimens showing the manufacture of
sand-paper, asbestus and its uses, abrading and polishing materials, and the utiliza-
tion of barytes.

This collection, filling nineteen cases, occupied a floor space of nearly
2,300 square feet. Mr. Dewey visited the exposition and remained un-
til all of the collections in his department had been installed.

The Smithsonian exhibit occupied more than a quarter of the entire
space assigned to the Government for exhibition purposes, and the at-
tention which the collection received from visitors to the exhibition
and from the press was very gratifying, the space being the center of
attraction for scientists from various parts of the country and for
students from different Southern colleges.

At the close of the exposition several of the curators returned to
New Orleans to look after the exhibits belonging to their departments,
and a number of professional packers, under the direction of Mr. H.
Horan, were sent from Washington to assist in the packing and return-
ing of materials, many of the exhibits from their nature being very
fragile and requiring skillful handling. An additional force of laborers
was employed, and the work was pushed with all possible speed, so
that by the 10th of July the work of packing bad been completed and
the exhibits were on their way to Washington, Mr. Earll and party
leaving on the 14th. By the end of the month the last car-load of
materials had reached Washington. Very little loss was sustained
from breakage, the exhibits upon arrival being, as a rule, in excellent.
condition.
ae ae my. s @ tied Da in
A ny Heathen: ue

Byes
Patewateis’

Sn 6 ial aga
= x " rianede aad
Tan ely aat Chea sill

Pe (Avy 4 iy :
val) a vd
pk warwe he in Pr i ai i Bee ( ~~

sn uy At Ves iV (a tel ‘ pee Hei ny oa j

3 ail ae ie mis

A i" tipee v4 iv oir

tigi mY big £04)

| eT ee

Uae i eer i

+o ty ty AN a bite

: A Re au! ak) that v lain: Al i421) ke Bu ie

CRG Sia fe nl aa

lal ARE LAYT ts YW hP aa ual ag a "
WR MERI hin 0s New wt rat ee i
i. py oe Hit MP San
Fe i a niet ‘
“ig ' CORAM Bor hihy oil ae oii uel i
’ ne ie on
a | yal bP) tpg pe 7 ‘ahs j bie

lg; ie wasta

tht sp uihe ote aa ia

; ‘ kt a
if, af Loui yo’ eT 2, ie
pe rani y "9

ike ae hea

‘ ‘8 re

hp» Viq “1a ay -_ RM i “at

oe aa ay uit Alte a

. et } re TAY a ‘ies a)

: i? p , ‘ ry wi a ‘ i cnt lgnmoele

ig eS THORNE
1M Ms ue fs “iy en a
i ahhale } peat a7 “NW any vi
+ Lease raping
el on

ried ii ‘t vi) An i.
7 a ls wid att Ae he
: j my fe banal le TR oi om
4 he YD A, aaa Tee

a WY) We {rs pia e TS. ’ fer hii:

Peay Tas dt aan ; nfs
es ih i

ee Ee ak.

REPORTS OF THE CURATORS OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
UPON THE PROGRESS OF WORK DURING THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1886.

85
REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY IN
THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
1886.

By Otis T. Mason, Curator.

The work of this department during the year has been for the most
part tentative and preparatory in two directions, receiving and caring
for new material so as to render it most available and valuable, and pre-
paring series of objects for exhibition, study, and exchange.

In order to give greater efficiency to the former method of cataloguing
accessions, the following plan has been adopted. Desultory material is
entered as formerly in the standard catalogue; after that a system of
card cataloguing of an encyclopedic character enables the curator to
gather from many sources all that is valuable about the object in hand.

Whenever a collection of special importance is received from the same
locality, the objects are first carefully classified, so as to bring all things
together that are alike or that have the same use. These are then en-
tered, as formerly, a separate number being given to each piece that is
sufficiently distinet to receive it, but those that are alike or that form
a Set receive the same number. The card catalogue is also used with
this material for the purpose of gathering information. In the register
things go by number; in the card catalogue they are arranged by topics
and classes of things, so that all information upon each subject will be
found together, as in an encyclopedia.

This encyclopedic method has proved of incalculable value in the
correspondence of the Museum when difficult questions are proposed
for immediate reply.

As soon as this classified entry is made the material is sent to the
poisoning department, where it is subjected to a close scrutiny. The
curator has devoted much time to this subject, for it is encumbered with
many difficulties, each kind of material demanding a different treatment.
It is safe to suppose that every destructible specimen which comes into
a museum is infested with the eggs or larve of moth, dermestes, or
other museum pests. The problems to solve at the outset are these:

(1) To destroy the eggs and larve.

(2) To preserve in so doing the color and softness of the texture of

fabrics, skins, and furs.
87
88 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

(3) To prevent attacks of insect enemies in the future.

(4) To reduce the dange” to the curator and others to the lowest
amount.

In this department the curator has been greatly aided by the studies
of Mr. Walter Hough, who has discovered the following insects at active
work destroying museum material: Four species of Tinea, the carpet, fur,
cloth, and grain moths; Anthrenus varius and A. lepidus, the all-devouring
‘“‘ Buffalo bug ;” Anobiwm panicewm, which destroys wood and basketry ;
and Lepisma domestica, which destroys gummed labels. The work of
research in this direction is not quite finished, but the following con-
clusions have been’ practically reached :

(1) It is not sate to trust to camphor, pepper, turpentine, etc., in the
case of valuable material.

(2) Insect powder soils ermine and other delicate furs and fabrics, and
can be used only in certain cases.

(3) Objects soaked in benzine and other light coal-oil products have
the larva and eggs destroyed, but they are liable to future attacks.

(4) Naphthaline proves efficacious so far in preventing the ravages of
insects, but complaints are made of its deleterious effects on the health
of laborators.

(5) Insects and larve of all kinds are destroyed in furs and fabrics
when they are hung in a tight closet exposed to the evaporation of bi-
sulphide of carbon. But this effect is only temporary.

(6) Corrosive sublimate or arsenious acid dissolved in alcohol or
water in proportion not exceeding 3 per cent. of the poison, may be
applied to furs by spraying, provided the skin is constantly worked
while drying. This should be done in open air and with caution. Deer
hair is very easily rotted, and should be cautiously treated on the
leather side chiefly.

The specimens are then stored in the grand series chiefly by form and
use ; that is, clothing, tools, household articles, weapons, and examples
of higher intellectual activities are grouped together.

Whenever occasion demands, the specimens of a particular tribe, na-
tion, or class of people are stored apart. The effort is thus made to
give to each object all the scientific value which it possesses from the
very start, and to render it accessible at once for the exhibition, the
study or type, and the exchange series.

Convinced that a great national collection should not be forcibly
strained into subjection to any one scheme, the exhibition series, so far
as they are completed, have been selected to illustrate all the lines of
study pursued by anthropologists upon human activities so far as they
can be set forth by things, pictures, or graphic tables.

The dominant ideas according to which anthropologists in various
parts of the world arrange their specimens may be called the concepts
of classification. These concepts are race or tribe, material, structure,
and function, progress of invention, and geographical distribution. No
perfect scheme can omit any one of these concepts. Methods can differ
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY 89

only in the order in which they are considered and the prominence given
to each.

It will be readily understood that the order in which these concepts
are taken decides the appearance of a museum. Hach one of the first
three—race, material, structure and function—may be and in fact is the
ruling concept in some museums. ‘To illustrate the methods pursued
in these various institutions, and the lessons which they teach, several
series are now being arranged, and will be on exhibition as below de-
scribed. Indeed, some of them are now exposed to the public, but not
completely installed or labeled.

As an example of what may be done on the ethnical basis, all of the
objects belonging to Eskimo art have been gathered in the Hast Hall
and laid out according to the following concepts in the order named:
function or use, location, evolution and varieties. Fourteen quite well-
marked, areas have been noted among the Eskimo: Greenland, Labra-
dor and Ungava, Baffin Land, Northern Canada, Northern Alaska,
Kotzebue Sound, Bering Strait, St. Lawrence Island and the main-land
on either side; Cape Nome, Norton Sound and Yukon Delta (a mixed
area); Nunivak and the contiguous main-land, Kuskokvim delta, Bristol
Bay, Kadiak and vicinity ; and for the Aleuts, the Aleutian chain.

It must be distinctly understood that these areas are wholly second-
ary to types and material.

In order to ascertain the deficiencies as well as the riches of the Mu-
seum, each implement, ornament, etc., is traced through the fifteen
areas by means of a set of boxes, one for each area. All the objects in
the Eskimo collection being placed in their appropriate boxes, the va.
cancies will be at once apparent, and proclaim either that the people
of that area do not use this device or that the National Museum has not
the good fortune to possess an example. In this work the curator has
been greatly aided by Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, and Mr. E. B.
Webster, paymaster, U.S. Navy.

The curator will in the future be able to follow a similar scheme for
several other peoples, but thinks that when the material in hand does
not fairly picture the total life history of a tribe or race, the best ad-
ministration to make of the material is to show the elaboration of the
various human arts, with a view ultimately to exhibit the progress in
culture of the whole race. In this line he has commenced to prepare
the following series:

(1) Sets of arrow-makers’ tools from all available sources.

(2) The shops, implements, and productions of the potter, with models
and pictures of his furnace, processes, etc.

(3) The sets of apparatus used by North American tribes for gam-
bling, arranged typically and ethnically.

(4) Outfits of narcotic indulgence, such as smoking opium and to-
bacco, betel chewing, ete.
90 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

(5) The apparatus of the primitive weaver, mat-maker, basket-maker,
ete., in order to understand the origin of the textile art.

Too much emphasis can not be laid upon collecting objects in sets,
outfits, suits, contents, packs, apparatus, panoplies, accoutrements. The
elaboration of many useful and artistic forms has taken place in an
adaptive fashion, as being part of a lot or set like the mutual change of
form of insect and flower through the process of fertilization.

When a single object, as a hammer, adze, wedge, hoe, spade, rake,
plough, snow-shoe, ete., stands alone as an implement or a product,
specimens thereof may be exhibited in series to illustrate the possible
lines of inventive progress, care being taken always to note localities
and the evidences of historical connection.

In carrying out the scheme of which the Catlin and the Stanley gal-
leries were the commencement, the curator has commenced to collect
the actual color of all delegations visiting Washington and to gather a
series of painted photographs as the foundation of an aboriginal album
of our continent. In this matter great aid has been rendered by the
Bureau of Ethnology.

One of the greatest difficulties which a curator has to encounter is
that which arises from false location and insufficient data. In the Na-
tional Museum, as well as in every other collection, are many precious
objects gathered long ago, when it was considered sufficient to know
that a specimen came from America, Africa, or Polynesia. This is one
of the chief hindrances to a purely ethnological scheme, since it is oft-
en begging the whole question to assign a specimen to a certain tribe.
On the other hand, no harm can possibly come from putting things that
are alike in the same case or receptacle.

In order to ennoble this old and imperfectly described material the
curator is collecting from absolutely reliable sources single objects and
complete outfits of various kinds to act as guides. It has many times
happened that one such specimen has really put him in the possession of
several, with this added, that the older objects are more absolutely free
from the contamination of Aryan influences. For instance, all of Cap-
tain Wilkes’s American material is labeled northwest coast of America,
which means anywhere from the Straits of Fuca to the Bay of San
Francisco—a region occupied by many stocks of aborigines. The sub-
sequent collections of Gibbs, Swan, Powers, Green, Ray, the officers of
the Army, and the Bureau of Ethnology now enable the curator to defi-
nitely locate all of Wilkes’s specimens.

The acquisitions of this department are indicated below, arranged
geographically and topically. The States of the Union are arranged
alphabetically and specimens from each are given separately with a view
to stimulating in each an interest in our great national collection. A
large number of the specimens accredited to the States were received at
the New Orleans Exposition. Especial mention should also be made
of the collections of the Bureau of Ethnology, Lieut. P. H. Ray, U.S.
Army, and Dr. D. Bethune McCartee.
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 91

ESKIMO AREAS.

Greenland.—Mesb-sticks for netting (7), Capt. J. W. Collins.

Baffin Land.—Steatite lamp and companion pot, Dr. E. Bessels (7393).

Fort Chimo.—Throwing-stick and case of one hundred and fifty Eskimo dominoes
(15388), in three sets.

Kotzebue Sound.—Three labrets and mask of wood, carving in bone, spoon made from
sheep’s skull; knife, blade, and core of jadeite; harpoon point, five fish-hooks
(16827), Woolfe. :

Norton Sound Region.—Wisps of sea grass for whipping the body in the bath, parka,
housewife, haversack of fish skin, needles, and fish-skin boots, collections of E. W.
Nelson.

Nunivak Island Region.—Grease dish, Dall (16230).

Kuskokvim Delta.—Wallet of twined basketry.

Bristol Bay.—Stone ax, hats, women’s coats, women’s boots. head-dress, ear-pockets,
knives, belt of reindeer teeth (16879), ivory carving containing figures represent-
ing an Eskimo dance and game of strength (16902), J. W. Johnson.

Aleutian [slands.—Wallets of twined basketry (16754, 16293), Dall and Bean ; Bidarka
model for three rowers (16914), Department of State, New Orleans Exhibit.

INDIAN TRIBES OF ALASKA AND CANADA.

Klinkit of Alaska.--War knife, carved wooden pipes, hair, and masks (16771, 17057),
from Shaman’s graves, Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U.S. Navy; one hundred and thirty
photographs (16912), twined cylindrical baskets.

Haida of Queen Charlotte [sland.—Shaman’s robe, Haliotis shell ornaments.

Bella Bella of British Columbia.—Cedar bark basketry, Swan.

Aht, Varcouver Island.—Dentalium, fish-hook of pearl shell (17655).

Makah of Cape Flattery and Vancouver Island.—Cedar-bark wallets, kelp for holding
food, whale harpoon lines.

Ottawa.—Doll, illustrating half-breed costume. ;

Troquois.—Bark canoe, and painting on glass of man and woman in costume.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE STATES.

Alabama.—Choctaw basketry, seed dice, pump-drill still used by negro blacksmiths*
(16955).

Arizona and New Mexico.—Twelve photographs Apache (17395), three Navajo prairie-
dog arrows (17239), bow, arrow, and quiver of the Navajos (16871), large and
beautiful woolen Navajo carpet (16928), Moki coiled basket trays, wicker coiled
basket trays, woven dance-belts, painted aprons worn in snake dance.

From J. W. Powell, Director Bureau of Ethnology. (Acc. 16870.) A collection
of models exhibited by that Bureau at New Orleans, as follows: (76690)
Pueblo of Oraibe, Moki, Ariz. ; (76691) pueblo of Mashonginavi, Moki;
(76692) pueblo of Schomovi, Moki; (76693) pueblo of Wolpi, Moki;
(76694) pueblo of Shipaneluvi, Moki; (76695) pueblo of Shemopavi,
Moki; (76696) pueblo of Tewa, Moki; (76697) relief map of ancient
province of Tusayan, Moki; (76990) Casa Blanca cliff-ruin, Cation de
Chelly, Arizona; (76993) small cliff-ruin in Canon de Chelly; (76999)
mummy cave cliff-ruin, Caiion de la Muerte, Arizona; (76995) cliff-ruin in
Mancos Canon, Colorado; (76996) restoration, cave town on Rio de
Chelly, Arizona; (76992) ruined pueblo of Wejegi, Chaco Cation, New
Mexico.

*See page 90, bottom.
o2, REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Arizona and New Mexico—Continued,

Zuni specimens from the Bureau of Ethuology, collected by Col. J. Stevenson :
(15874) pump-drills, darts and targets for children’s play, stone hammers
of various patterns, tanned deer skin, pottery-making stools (starting
stone, gourd scraper, rubbing or polishing stones), Cohonino tanned deer
skin, bangs for the hair, breech-clouts, armlets, sashes, garters, rattles of
gourd and tortoise shell, painted images of wood, seed-baskets, mortars
and pestles, flaking hammers, paint and paint mortars, strainer (16392),
and from Laguna corn bread and flour. From the modeling department
of the Bureau of Ethnology the following models have been received : *
(16970) Zuni, Wejegi, Taos, Tacoma, cliff ruins, small pueblo, Tegua,
mummy cave, cliff fortress, seven models of pueblos, map in relief of
Tusayan, two cave towns, Casa Blanca, ancient tower.

California.—From Indians of Hupa Reservation, collected by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U.S.
Army :* (172391) Head ornaments, hair-brush of vegetable fiber, necklaces of
pine seed, dance dresses of buckskin adorned with grass embroidery, mats of
twined basketry, stones for boiling mush, paint mortars, pestles and mortars; .
spoons of horn, stone, and wood; mush-paddles, straight smoking-pipes of wood
and stone, dance rattle of deer’s trotters, basketry hats, ornamental baskets,
grass and fiber for basketry, dip-net and seine twine and needles, salmon spear
heads and harpoons; Indian money of dentalium shell wound with fish skin, se-
cured in cash boxes of elkhorn; chisels and wedges of elk horn, girdle of woven
basketry and buckskin, dance hats of great value, pillows and stools of wood
resembling those of New Guinea, head scratchers, hammers and adzes of stone,
fire-drills, stone frying and baking pans, obsidian and jasper knives of great
beauty, bows and arrows of great beauty, harpoons, men’s clothing; dance aprons
and cinctures of seeds, ornamented with straw work; dance wand of basketry,
tobacco baskets, panniers, and cradles of basketry. From McLeod River Indians,
from the collections of L. W. Green: (17414) Complete outfit of the bowyer and
fletcher, shafts, resin, feathers, obsidian and jasper, pitching stone, chipper,
sandstone, polisher, straightener, sinew, sinew-scraper, fish-skin padding, paint
and brushes, saw, together with a beautiful outfit of bow, arrows, and quiver.
From Mr. P. Crowley, of San Francisco: Complete outfit of opium-smoking, con-
sisting of opium, pipes, match-boxes, brushes, trays, scissors, pipe-cleaners,
roasting needles, stand, lamps, Chinese cups, and laundry stamps (17215.)

Dakota and Indian Territory.—Collection of Governor Furnas, of Nebraska, among
Sioux Indians: (17069) Pemmican maul, pipes, buffalo lance, clarionet, war clubs,
quiver and arrows, rattle, carved spoon, head-dress, lariats, tomahawk pipe,
photographs of Sioux ; models of Sioux chiefs, life size, in plaster, by M. Collin;
photographs of Winnebagos, model in plaster of Pawnee scout, model of Arrapaho
Chief, Red River car and harness, head-dress of war chief and parflesh case, bows
and arrows of Crow Indians, photographs of Osages.

District of Columbia.—Game of shuttlecock.

Georgia.—Baskets from New Orleans Exposition (16188).

Indiana.*—Models of Studebaker’s wagons and carts.

Kentucky.—Pictures illustrating industrial life in that State.

Louisiana.—Specimens from the Choctaw and Shetimasha Indians. Baskets of cane,
calico dresses, blow-guns and darts, bows and arrows, raquets for foot game,
beaded moccasins, belts, and caps (16953. )

Maine.*—Passamaquoddy Indians, baskets (17658).

Maryland.*—Rude pipes (17364.)

Mississippi.cHome-made basketry, palmetto and shuck hats, horse collars, wooden
trays and dishes (16961).

* See page 90, bottom.
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 93

New York.—From General Porter, complete opium-smokers’ outfit (17198) ; from Peck
& Snyder, series of modern games, dumb-bells, gymnastic apparatus, croquet, box-
ing-gloves, archery, cock fighting, and theatrical outtits, Indian clubs, skates, lawn
tennis, lacrosse, base-ball, foot-ball, foils and masks (11487).

From the Co-operative Dress Association (12096), wsthetic dress of 1882, mod-
ern adaption of ancient Grecian dress.
From Capt. Charles Bendire, snow-shoes from the Adirondacks (17472).

New Hampshire.—Paper-hangings of last century.

South Carolina.—Frontier conveniences and clothing.

Texas.—Old gun-flints. :

Virginia.— Dental snuff and plantation specimens.

Nevada.—F rom the Ute Indians, basket-hats, basket harvesting-wands, wicker cradles,
fanning and roasting trays, water-tight archer bottles, carrying-baskets (16956).

Utah.—Quiver, bow, and arrows, rabbit-skin robes, photographs of headmen (13581)
from Bureau of Ethnology.

Wisconsin. —Wooden shoes worn by Swede and Norwegian settlers (16726).

Wyoming.—Saddle of Indians (17121).

MEXICO.

The objects from this locality are principally from the collections of
Dr. Edward Palmer in Sonora and Chihuahua, and from the Mexican
Government at the New Orleans Exposition. The donations include
Indian, thirty-nine casf{s of Mexican antiquities made by Eufemio Aba-
diano, illustrated atlas of Mexican social life and natural history,
atlas of primitive husbandry, such as planting board, cactus fruit
picker or tongs, primitive spade; weapons, including sling, bow, ar-
rows, and wrist-guard of Tarahumaras; horse-trappings, bridles, sad-
dles, blankets, stirrups, tether ropes, cinetures; mealing tools, mortars
and pestles, metates and mullers or brazos; textile products, many wicker
baskets, wallets, bark cloth, sacks of pita and other native fiber, water
filters, jars, water skins.

Complete outfit of Guadalajara potter, consisting of clay in various
stages of preparation, molds for modeling parts, molding tools of
rosewood, paint and brushes, casts and vessels in different stages of
completion, model of pottery, and drawing of shop.

Household apparatus and utensils: Dippers of gourd, ladles, spoons
of wood, mush sticks, chocolate-cups, stirrers, pulque-sieves, trough
for washing.

Articles of costume: Straw and palm hats, rain-coats, serapes, belts,
sandals, specimens of coarse cloth, money-bag, wash-rags of pita fiber,
hair-brushes of vegetable fiber.

Furniture: Beds of cocoa and pita fiber, mattresses, pillows, floor
mats, chairs, floor brushes, wooden trays, brooms, scrubbing brushes,
chairs, shingle-pins, fire-fans, torches, pot-carriers, head-bands, model
of pulque gatherer, gathering nuts, water-carriers’ yoke.

Ceremonial objects: Masks, dance-rattles, incensafios, uniforms of
police and soldiers of different Mexican corps, fire-mattress, horse equip-
94 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

equipments and trappings, in all seventeen suits; quoits, stones for
hop-scotch, foot-ball, fiddle and bow.

Works of art: Engraved and painted gourds, many specimens and
patterns, lacquer plates, waiters and trays, straw placques, photographs.

MIDDLE AND SOUTH AMERICA.

Central America.—Carved jicara shells and gourd, packing baskets, planks hewed out
with stone implements, a whole tree being wasted for each plank.

Cuba.—Series of photographs of people and scenery.

Jamaica.—Hats, basketry, brooms, brushes.

Hayti.—Hammocks, canes, clay pipes, bastinado, mortar and pestle, vessels of turned
wood, rope of pita fiber, lace wood whips, horse trappings, pack saddles, saddle
hampers, photos, photographs of Presidents, seventeen oil portraits of Pres-
idents, (17026) powder-boxes.

Antilles.—W ater-vessels and basketry, specimens of agave fiber, boxes of lignum-
vitz.

British Guiana.—(16660) Native brushes of vegetable fiber, ornaments of seed-work.

Venezuela.—Bead-belts.

Argentine Republic.—Hair mats.

Peru,—Spindles.

. EUROPE.

England.—Exchequer tally-stick (16214), shawls, hats, and cutlery from New Orleans
Exposition (16690).

Norway.—Tschukchi cross-bow, piggin, chopping-board, sltoes.

Belgium and Holland.—Wooden shoes, rope, clay pipes, horse-wrappings, album of
costumes (16642), fishing-nets, and twine.

France.—Fibers, charts, five models of ethnic types, life size; ancient loom weights.

Ttaly.—Hats, photographs of social life and costume, wine-flasks, Sicilian plow and
yoke (16574).

Germany.—Scythes, baskets, agricultural implements, and mechanical tools, canes,
dolls, and toys, clothing, vases (16573, 16645).

Russia.—Harness and yokes, boots and shoes, clothing (16525, 16617).

Turkey.—Charms, clothing.

Scotland.—Shepherd check shawl (16646).

ASIA.

Asia Minor.—Grecian bowl] (16332).

Syria and Arabia.—Writing apparatus, modern Syrian clothing, carvings in olive
wood, stone and shell, turbans, shoes, veils, incense, inscriptions, hubble-bub-
ble pipes, newspaper, pens (* 16413, * 16637, * 16995).

Persia.—Photographs of New Orleans Exhibit, shawl, sandals, lacquer-box, and book-
cover, clothing.

India.—Model of catamaran, casts of Hindoo faces, string of beads, sandals, torches,
embroidery, entire outfit of betel chewer, image of the sun god, lac tray, shanka
shells, kookrie or set of knives, fork and chop-sticks, clothing (16685, 17430,
* 17306, * 17458, 17243, 17491, 16694, 16555, 16640).

China.—Official hat-box, jade inkstand-helder, rattan dipper, student’s book-case,
clothing, historical illustrations, copies of Pekin Gazette, fans, screens, pictures
on glass, rush table, bamboo shoe, writing materials, idols, quiver and arrows,
inlaid plaque from Loochoo, bow and arrows from Formosa. A large number of
these gifts were from Dr. D. B. MeCartee.

* See page 90.
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 5)

Japan.—Magic mirror, books, maps, photographs, clothing, model of house, weapons,
idols, illustrations of natural productions, screens, painting on silk, social ob-
jects, writing material, illustrated cyclopxdia,

Corea.—Inlaid metal work, printing block of wood, books, illustrated works, sketches
of Corean social life and natural history, screens and blinds, cabinets, stove, em-
broidered badges, pillow ends, clothing, hats in great variety, oil paper coats and
hats, mourning costume, matting, fans, shoes, rice bowl, and other foed imple-
ments, feather ornament, varieties of paper, sadiron, mirror, stone ornament,
money-bag, games of chance, washing sticks, soldiers’ dress, tweezers, pipes,
hampers, knife, comb, full male, female, and child’s costume, mourner’s dress,
map of Seoul, old screen in eight parts, lac canister and box, straw image.

AFRICA.

Madeira.—Photographs of costumes.

Barbary States.—Grass fabric, embroidered and embossed leather, specimens of native
cotton fabric, velvet embroidery, weapons in embossed leather scabbard, bask-
etry, shoes, turbans, lamps, blankets, suit of clothing, threshing sledge, brass
trays, water bottles.

Egypt.—Pipes, shoes, lantern, scarabaei, and mummy.

Madagascar.—Hammer, tent, map, bread, palm fiber.

POLYNESIA.

Samoa.*—Whip of cocoa fiber, complete apparatus for kava drinking, cinctures,
rugs.

Sandwich Islands.—Photographs of natives, basketry, tapa cloth, straw hats.

New Zealand.—Maori seed wallet, spear head, fig leaf, ‘‘ shell,” model of outrigger.

Australia.—Photographs of aborigines, views in Victoria.

See page 90,
96 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
CHART OF THE ESKIMO COLLECTIONS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

This chart is designed to show the locations in which each species of
Eskimo apparatus is represented by specimens in the U.S. National
Museum. The crosses stand for one or more specimens, and the vacant
places merely exhibit the deficiencies of the national collections. The
objects may be in use in such places, and doubtless in many cases are,
but the:fact can not be proved by this series.

Jig Sah ihe |
ayia |S) a eeeale = 2|\2
BlA\2'2/ Sass elelal.) ela
ast vacate (Se 2 1s eee es) EB) RAIS
g1S iC lslS | ele \ Fea @ |S la bia igi a
aieieig laisse] wls sls lSlEleisisis
SIZ/ElSIE/E as La BlSiElSle/2\5
Lal 4 a fee} $ >) cl rs
CIA/ElAl4ZIM (Sle fo |Alhl|al/e/al4/<
Needle cases. -..-..-------.---- fel tlt] + }4+)4)4+]+4)/4+]4)4# 4+] 4+]/4] 4
INGSRIES Sao co tocct acon ccm mscesle ost leeaclmemelee ge ate Hisclete| eto! tate ams | Svar ove rce= | stolarel| ere terel meres Shes
Needle board's ecsece ae seine] eee ss -cia| oe sme fn efei| = Aes aScicl ea tscidel tace SE pea ees | aial| eae | Seta ae
AMID IOS etasee ce cetoc creo sane SEE) NTIS Ve ea ie i | ert ee rae cio] pts boesesol We el Uo asa
Mhimible-WOlders/ 2 sae aeie cee = |e sess wate Ben eta is VE ea tel) pel Pte See eal iam all ee yale)
Mhinpble: oaard Sie) ceee newcie=s| coats: Se i ay | Marea eel ecb | ere Bac oo al Pa besa rein ec Mac aie
Wiork-bao fastener: <2 5232. ---|02 o| 2 5-. ae til ino | PATE thoes Mime haces BR aid eae) ieee ah ace att Wee
Awl or bodkin.....-..--------- +/+ ]4+ ----f| bt] EE] +t] +) tye] 4] 4] + fee} t+
Seine-needle =. a. cept ence enn ri fa es (a Jel tle] e ley eye] ad td t+ fee] +
NIEING-SPACOM mses cee stsere ent stapapsiece lien | ereiall rams lege tall ---l+t}]+/4+i+)]+]4]+]4+)4+ eee
Seine-sinkers .--..----- BASU Ac rae face 2 Ol Pte Al ieerll t= [f= ) | Seieta | ateta [eteis [ose =o] net | efetetell eset
BOD DINSiseee en eetlo ens See cite ne ele een Cele eel ee ee Fae aarse) ese Macon Be SEs Nea ls sees Henadtetiete
KN Ot PICKOrs tla. ccscee melamine He) eee lectin |e eer |= Ade SoH | etal boo seea| ---} + ar || Arp
INGCKIACES ire seccelcemeiminw!s 2)-\i=Jeae eee Ee ee osc! orn Ske heed ead Porc ShpalaaAs eric +
Bracelets ice ses cates sa iiesiee = ore bstorer a Vere ct | caesar eee a eee ee para eee [ro
MAL TAN GS) (anaes o na (cine minmeisinln ella nellsmia ela se Be eae (ee We ea Vc a Ea cs ool Ve Da oe a eel al
Labrets....--------------++----].-2.|---- Jeli e lel +i tl ey +i al +i t+
Grass:COMDSesis seine seeneeen| scorers ‘ siecle Se Pe ee Eh ye tee =| police islere
Hair-combs....--.------------- tit] Heep tle etl ep ep ae a
Snufitubesiersce cs cce ce beseeee|ucesleesalemae ONS ei neetal cae late ases estan | eaten | ssteet | eateaalieezets lise
(OPH NAR.) aadenaccrosenOnepesso| [S444] seed seuol toad lear SABES lie cdl Eeacal (a BI ioe | socllaoGe
Powder-chargers ..--.--------- PRS NSE Uae ss + + +)/+)/+i/+]/+
Bullets oldest ee ese | eae ce ee | ee [err ee meal seen | ane ll pte 2 ere aH ectens BP i et
Pipe-bowl ea Bae el ce ea eae ae a Se) Bes eee Seo socal ictal ks
Fungus, snuff, and...-...-.--
Tobacco- boxes Lec amemlstcleyereiere } piel sail ie Serene, cele Stell ete sats 4 ante = Vaate | este te ate | (satan iat
Abra heil a}icl 813 p.¢2-\ ene Sea RS Serene Ha ekeel ieee WeaLoeal Panes ey aoe Ty +]..)4].---) +] +/+ 74+ /+
Canoe-models: =. tects. aes 52. een eere 5 Ai teen Tas Sete tps fray= a) tereea| inet
Canoe-attachments, spear- rests |__|... + el Vee Pa pc sn setae eT Ve el Wl 3
Canoe - attachments, cord-fast-
eners, and sail-blocke ........ ab Eee At Bete es ee nl ese fe Sel ee eee [eons sce [sac
IOOKS an MiG lGatsircnrancme- 4 Saiilivecn lees al See BNE Sosa ee rit it Sp eet al etal, cong etal eee
Wordfastenerse nr 25-2 -erlenenlsece Eee rope aliiate ete ieee ea facto et | ee ||
Sledge-attachments, bells,
swivels, and whip- handles....|....|.--. +f...) +) 4+) 4'4+!4+)4/4),4+ shee
Spear-attachments, guards, and
detachers......-..--.-.------|....].--- BME bec ie eee eS ead ieee fore sere Fis alt
Float-attachments, handles,
nozzles, rattles, plugs -..---.)....|.... Se Steere) Sey ce |e ae es ear let
Buttons and toggles -.....-....}....|---- Ve | a) Wa) a Wt Pel a ee ee eee
Pendants ..-..--..-- eee eee be peice] ey se) ey See se
EDTA POWS tee ee cece ore eee ae eens Sta etal oy es a Ve (eV ee em Sl Psa sy (ei (ors
Carved images, ivory, stone, |
WOO0d ..-.--------2-22---- 2-2: Pe 0 a a a a a a co isl a
Arrow and bow-tools ....-..---}...]...-. ey) WTO) ee eet read (el eel een odie | [ase
Handles and toggles for work .|....]....|.--.] + |---| +] +] + |----| #] 4] 4] # J----/----
Mood *toolses ease sec ena aise Be eS RS Se tee Seale onl een fe b| boon) ae: leeches ae de
Knives, snow...--.--.----.---- tle} et el ela] et) ae] ee ed ey
Knives; men's stickers: 2220055 .|5 a0. | leon aaea| eee. a aed Meson elie Pps tote | tal eee
Knives (women’s) ...-..-....-. BS eri a VD PO a a ee eae |W
Skin and fat scrapers.-.-.-.--. + |..--] + fe---] +] +] 4) +) 4+] +] a 4+] OF Ieee
PICKS ANGHNOOKBsocem ees «rcs cael ace aleeeal eeee| Seealenee See ee ee a cee ee bis mall ice
Bap -handles\s te agse see eet lon ease Eph | a a rea eon resi pa ee ee eel ees {coc
Lance and harpoon points,
metal, ivory ----------------- +)/+]/+]+/+ Sibel (ests Rese ot |e ecu +
Lance and harpoon fore and
TOOSeiShahts satan he sets | evel ete) = +l+ti4a]+ti4ti}4]4+)+])]4+]4+) 4+) 4+
Lance and harpoon butts...-.. aie afc a | a a Se eet ete et (eee Ea cog ecea band] isort:
Throwing-sticks.........-..-.- (AR SE SES TSE Se Re ae tea eS SS cba it:

REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN
ABORIGINAL POTTERY IN THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1886,

By WiLuiAmM H. HoLmeEs, Honorary Curator.

The department of aboriginal pottery has been enriched during the
year by several very important accessions, numbering about 1,500 entries,
but including a much larger number of pieces. In previous years the
collections consisted to a large extent of modern products, most of which
were derived from the pueblo towns of New Mexico and Arizona, but
the body of the accessions of this year are prehistoric and represent
localities widely distributed.over the American continent.

The agencies through which these acquisitions were made are (1)
those of the Nationat Museum and the Smithsonian Institution, in-
cluding donations, purchases, and the products of original research by
the agents of these departments, and (2) those of the Bureau of Ethnol-
ogy through corresponding channels. The bulk of the year’s material
has been acquired through the agencies of the latter organization.

From the Mississippi Valley and the more easterly sections of the
United States collections were made chiefly by the agents of the Bureau
of Ethnology, working under the supervision of Dr. Cyrus Thomas.

They were obtained from mounds, graves, shell heaps, and from the
surface of the ground, and include many pieces of the ordinary abo-
riginal vases, pipes, etc., mostly of types already well represented in
the collection, but of much importance and interest as filling up gaps
in the series. In all there are upwards of 409 numbers.

From the pueblo country the most important accessions are of the
ancient wares of eastern-central Arizona and western-central New
Mexico, and are the product of excavations made by Mr. E. W. Nelson.
They consist chiefly of vases and fragments of the coiled and whito
wares of the earliest-known periods of puebio occupation and exhibit
a number of new forms such as are not found farther north. Mr. James
Stevenson secured a number of ancient pieces from the province of Tu-
sayan.

The purchase of two collections of Mexican antiquities has added
much to the collections of pottery. A small number of pieces come
from the valley of Mexico, but the more important accessions are from

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2——7 97
98 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Oaxaca. The latter include a series of ceremonial vases: elaborately
embellished with figures of Tlaloc and other mythologic personages.
A small collection, including both ancient and modern wares, was made
in the vicinity of Guadalajara, by Dr. E. Palmer. The ancient pieces
are of types corresponding closely to those of Tula and the valley of
Mexico.

{mportant additions were made to our already rich collections from
the province of Chiriqui, Colombia. The field-work was done by Mr.
J. A. MeNiel, and the specimens were acquired by the Museum through
purchase and through donation, about 50 fine pieces having been pre-
_ sented to the Museum by Mr. J. B. Stearns, of Short Hills, N. J.

The work of classifying and arranging continued steadily during the
year, and such progress was made that in June the hall was opened to
the public, a small space only being reserved for the reception and
classification of new collections. Careful attention has been given to
the placing of the material with a view of avoiding confusion and of
making the classification of the ware apparent ata glance. The great
wall case is entirely filled with the modern wares of the American In-
dians, the greater part of the space being devoted to the wares of the
pueblo Indians. Beginning at the right, on eatering the hall, the two
first sections are occupied by the polished black pottery of the Rio

xrande pueblos. Following this ware in order are the various products
of the pueblos in the Rio Grande Valley, most notable among which are
the artistic vases of Acoma. Beyond this, occupying part of the north
and all of the west sides of the hall, are the striking products of the
pueblo of Zuni, and on the south are the rich-colored wares of Moki.
The modern products are confined exclusively to the wall case. The
central case contains about 500 pieces of ancient pueblo ware, chrono-
logically arranged; beginning with the most archaic forms on the lower
shelves, ascent is made through the three succeeding groups to the earlier
historic forms at the top. The remainder of the floor space is occupied
by about twenty ebony cases, in which are placed small selected series of
antique vases from Peru, Panama, Central America, Mexico, and the
mounds of the Mississippi Valley. Behind the wall case, and extending
the entire length, is a space fitted up with shelves, in which duplicates
and fragmentary pottery are stored.

The curator has been occupied during the year in preparing a paper
on the remarkable collections from the province of Chiriqui. The in-
troductory pages are devoted to the geography, peoples, cemeteries, and.
to other general topics. The various objects of art are discussed under
the three heads—stone, metal, and clay. The body of the work is given
to a detailed study of the ceramicart. Especial attention is given to the
decorative system of the Isthmian peoples, and the final chapter is de-
voted to a study of life forms in vase painting.

The study of this group of art products led to an investigation of the
influence of textile decoration upon the ornamentation of pottery, and
DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN ABORIGINAL POTTERY. og

a second paper was prepared which covers the following topics: Form
in the textile art, relation of form to ornament, textile ornament, devel-
opment of a geometric system of ornament within the art, geometricity
imposed upon adopted elements, and the extension of the geometric sys-
tem to other forms of art. These papers are accompanied by over 500
illustrations. and will appear in the Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau
of Ethnology.

It is difficult to obtain a correct statement of the number of specimens
in the collection, as much of the ware is in a fragmentary condition.

A very large and important series of vases is still retained in the
Archeologie Hall of the Smithsonian Institution. It is expected that
during the coming year cases will be built and placed in the pottery court
to accommodate representative series of this material.
REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAOLOGY IN
THE U. & NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
1886.

By Dr. CHARLES Rav, Curator.

In the preparation of this report I have found it convenient to take
up the more interesting accessions and treat of them by States.

REVIEW OF IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS.
NEW YORK.

The Natural Science Association of Staten Island sent for examina-_
tion a carving in sandstone representing the head of an Indian, and
evidently of aboriginal workmanship (Fig. 1). The head, which was:
presented to the association by Mr. George F. Kunz, of New York,
measures 7 inches in height, and is made from a sandstone bowlder ; it
never belonged to a complete figure. The carving shows a low fore-
head, an aquiline nose broad at the base, full lips, aid a well-formed chin.
The eyes are far apart, and the cheek bcnes remarkably prominent. It
was found in Southfield, Staten Island, at a depth of from 12 to 18 inches
in the swamp near the Fingerboard road. <A full account of the discov-
ery is given in the proceedings of the above-named association, May 10,
1884.

The head is represented by a good cast in the collection of the National

Museum.
NEW JERSEY.

Ten argillite implements of paleolithic type, from gravel-beds at
Trenton, were received from Dr. Charles C. Abbott, the well-known dis-
coverer of this class of primitive implements in that locality. Another
series of such specimens has been promised by the donor.

Mr. W. H. H. Chambers, of Philadelphia, presented twelve triangular
- arrow-head-shaped specimens of dark flint, which belonged to a subter-
ranean deposit of three hundred similar objects, discovered on the farm
of George Moore, on the south bank of Rancocas Creek, near Lumber-
ton, Burlington County. When plowed up the flint blades were found
standing upright in a circle, with the points downward. -Fig. 2 repre-

sents one of the specimens.
P 101
102 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18386.

PENNSYLVANIA.

Mr. A. F. Berlin, of Allentown, Lehigh County, presented five rude
implements, four cutters, thirtcen arrow-heads, and a notched sinker,
all found on Lehigh Island, in the Lehigh River, near Allentown. Some
of the arrow-heads are of the rare leaf-shaped tanged type (Fig. 3).*

Dr. J. J. Fullmer, of Philadelphia, sent for inspection a grooved stone
ax, which he had found in Fairmount Park, in thatcity. The ax, which
consists of a fine-grained sandstone, is remarkable for its length, and
for having the rather shallow groove so near to the butt-end that it is
difficult to understand how it could have been used with a handle.
The groove, moreover, shows distinct traces of wear. This ax has an
analogue in certain European stone axes, in which the shaft-hole is very
near the butt, and which, when hafted, would have presented the same
difficulties of manipulation.

A cast of the specimen represented in Fig. 4 is now in the Nationa]

Museum.
VIRGINIA.

From Mr. John b. Wiggins, of Chula, Amelia County, were received
specimens from an aboriginal mica mine in Amelia County, consisting
of fragments composed of earth, charcoal, and mica, and a piece of the
kind of stone (trap rock) of which the mauls used in obtaining mica
were made. I take the following from Mr. Wiggins’s letter accompany-
ing the specimens:

On examination I find that for acres around the John McCormick mine the ground
has been dug over and the surface mica extracted. The method employed in break-
ing the large quartz rock containing mica was by building fires and heating them,
afterwards using heavy mauls made of the same material as the fragment of stone
inclosed. I beg to say that the early workers of these mines labored under great
difficulties in obtaining the mica, and it must have been very highly prized by them.

A small collection, consisting of a leaf-shaped implement, arrow and
spear heads, grooved axes, a stone slab with a mortar cavity on each
side, and a fragment of pottery from Massaponax, Spottsylvania County,
was received from Mr. Robert P. Bigelow, of Washington, D. C.

A valuable addition to the collection was a handled boat-shaped pot-
stone bowl 13 inches long, found 8 feet below the surface on the west
bank of the Potomac River, about 7 miles above Washington, in Fair-
fax County, and presented by Mr. John W. Brock, of Philadelphia.
This vessel (Fig. 5) is not finished by smoothing, but left in a rough
state, showing the distinct marks of the tools by which it was fashioned.

WEST VIRGINIA.

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a large collection from
different localities in the Kanawha Valley, consisting of rude chipped
implements (mostly celts), scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear heads,

*Most of the received objects are of stone; whenever they consist of another ma-
terial it is specially mentioned.

Report of National Museum, 1886.—Rau. PLATE |.

eh

Fic. 1. Carved Indian head, Staten Island, New York. Catalogue No. 98133.
Fia. 2. Triangular arrow-head, New Jersey. Catalogue No. 98740. 4

Fie. 3. Arrow-head, Pennsylvania. Catalogue No. 98364.
Fia. 4. Grooved ax, Pennsylvania. Catalogue No. 98643.

Gd+ oho rope

Fie. 5. Soapstone vessel, Virginia. Catalogue No. 98645.
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAULOGY. 103

hammer-stones, pit-stones, grinding-stones, cup-stones, stone slabs with
mortar cavities, polished celts, small hematite celts, grooved axes, dis-
coidal stones, gaming disks, pierced tablets, ceremonial objects, tubes
(one with a flattened and enlarged mouth-piece), stone pipes, bone per-
forators, bone beads, bears’ teeth (notched or drilled), shell beads and
other ornaments of shell, and a number of copper wristlets. This col-
lection contains many good specimens.

The Bureau of Ethnology also delivered a collection from Samet
Mound,” on Smith’s farm, Kanawha County, embracing chipped celts
(some with polished cutting edges), arrow and spear heads, hammer-
stones, pit-stones, pestles, polished celts (some of hematite), grooved
axes, stone disks, pierced tablets, fragments of ceremonial objects, paint-
stones, a stone pipe, perforated bears’ teeth, and a number of unmodi-
fied Unio-shells.

NORTH CAROLINA.

Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of Lenoir, Caldwell County, contributed a speci-
men of brown hematite from Caldwell County, in the form of an egg
with truncated smallerend. Such specimens may have been the heads
of skin covered war-clubs, like those still or lately in use among certain
Indian tribes; but it has also been suggested that they were used in
some game, or perhaps as targets to be shot at with blunt arrows for
the sake of practice. Placed upright on a pole, they would fall down
when hit by a missile.

ALABAMA.

From the Bureau of Ethnology: A small collection from a stone grave
near Guntersville, Marshall County, namely, split and polished bear’s
teeth pierced with two holes in the middle, a string of small drilled
canine teeth, and spool-shaped objects of copper.

MISSISSIPPI.

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a collection from a group
of mounds and graves, inclosed by an embankment and ditch, in Union
Jounty, containing rude chipped implements, arrow and spear heads,
Serapers, a large flint digging tool of oval form, hammer-stones, pit-
stones, stone slabs with mortar cavities, polished celts, stone disks,
beads (of stone), an unfinished ceremonial object, fragments of a stone
pipe, shell beads, bone perforators, land-turtle shells (Cistudo clausa
Lin.), fragments of pottery, charred hickory nuts, part of a brass pen-
dant, a curiously patched ornament of brass (four-sided and pierced), a
thin plate of silver with the arms of Castile and Leon stamped on it,
and fragments of human skulls and bones.

OHIO.

A fine boat-shaped object of banded slate, flat on one side and pierced
with two holes, was presented by Mr. H. C. Duvall, of Washington, D.
104 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

©. The specimen had been found in a maize field in Berea, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio. ;

Mr. T. F. Spangler, of Zanesville, presented a collection of one hun-
dred and nine arrow and spear heads, scrapers, etc., from the neighbor-
hood of Flint Ridge, Muskingum County. These specimens—good rep-
resentatives of forms and materials—were attached to nine serviceabie
tablets, on which they are exhibited.

From Mrs. D. L. Nielsen, Vermillion, Erie County, were acquired two
spear-heads, and an object of porphyritic syenite, pertaining to the
class of so called bird-shaped carvings found on the farm of C. Crouse,
1 mile south of Birmingham, Erie County. The last-named specimen
is not madein the shape of a bird, but formed alike at both extremities.
Specimens of this character are not very frequent.

Mr. J. R. Nissley, of Mansfield, sent for inspection a small collection
of choice relics, some of which were reproduced in plaster in the Museum.
Among them is a disk of banded slate with a protuberance on each face
(Fig. 6). It can be easily perceived that this piece was designed to be
made into a ceremonial weapon by cutting out the portions. above and
below the protuberance, and by perforating the thick part. The original
was found on the surface, 6 miles northeast of Sidney, Shelby County.

Through Mr. Gerard Fowke, of Augusta, Bracken County, Ky., was
received a collection numbering 1,178 specimens from Flint Ridge, the
well-known locality to which the aborigines resorted for quarrying chal.
cedonic flint of excellent quality, and where they have left the traces of
their operations in the shape of numerous pits. Flint Ridge extends
through several counties; but the above mentioned collection came from
Licking County. It consists of hammer-stones of flint, and quartzite,
cores, rude implements (more or less leaf-shaped), cutting and drilling
tools, and a large anvil stone.

Some of the cores show very distinctly the facets produced by the re-
moval of flakes, and are the best specimens of their kind found north of
Mexico, which have ever fallen under my notice.

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a collection (surface
finds) from Butler County. It contains arrow and spear heads, hammer
stones, pestles, polished celts, grooved axes, pierced tablets, and a tube
of banded slate.

Further: A smali collection from ‘‘ Cemetery Mound,” Mount Ver-
non, Knox County, composed of rude stone implements, bears’ teeth
flattened on both sides and perforated with three holes, a thin semi-
lunar shaped object of copper (much corroded), fragments of human
and animal bones, and pieces of a material of chalky appearance,
which covered the skeleton.

INDIANA.

From Mr. B. W. Evermann, of Bloomington, Monroe County, were
received leaf-shaped implements, arrow and spear heads, a polished

eae
Report of National Museum, 1886.—Rau. PLATE II.

KG
KANN

Fia. 6. Unfinished ceremonial object, Ohio. Catalogue No. 98748. 4
7

Fic. 7. Unfinished ceremonial object, Indiana, Catalogue No. 98436. 4
Fig. 8. Ceremonial object—finished, Ohio. Catalogue No. 35627. 4
Fie. 9. Lizard-shaped object, Illinois. Catalogue No. 98662. 4

Fic. 10. Copper ornament, Kentucky. Catalogue No. 29 32. 4

Fia. 11. Spade-shaped pipe, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 82390. 4

DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAOLOGY. 105

celt, a large grooved ax, a grooved maul, a pestle, three pierced tablets,
one-half ot a ceremonial weapon, a bird-shaped object, and a natura]
formation (clay-iron stone), from Carroll County, and an oval flat peb-
ble of banded slate thickest in the middle, having portions cut out at
the smaller ends, with the intention to make it into a ceremonial
weapon. This interesting piece (obtained in Howard County) is repre-
sented in Fig. 7, and in lig. 8 is shown the form of a finished object of
the same character, received from Ohio in 1879,

A collection from Fioyd, Harrison, and Crawford Counties, was pre-
sented by Mr. John H. Lemon, of New Albany. It embraces rude and
leaf-shaped implements, cutting-tools, scrapers, perforators, arrow and
spear heads, polished celts, grooved axes, pestles, and fragments of
pierced tablets.

A leaf-shaped implement, arrow-heads, polished celts, a grooved ax,
and arude pierced tablet (mostly good specimens), from Wheatland,
Knox County, were presented by Dr. EK. C. Black, of Wheatland.

ILLINOIS.

The Museum is indebted to Mr. C. Armstrong, of Carrolton, Greene
County, for the loan of a chipped and afterward polished specimen of
white jasper, in the form of a lizard (Fig. 9). This object, of which there
is now a cast in the National Museum, measures 3 inches in length.
It was found on the surface in Walkerville Township, Greene County,
onwhat is knownas the Illinois River Bluffs. It may be of ornamental
or totemic character.

The Bureau of Ethnology delivered a collection from a mound near
Mill Creek, Alexander County, namely:, Large rude chipped imple-
ments, chipped celts, some with polished cutting edges, a spear head,
an irregular polished tablet of pale-greenish fluorite, pierced with two

_holes, shell beads and other ornaments of shell, bone perforators, drilled

bears’ teeth, worked stag horn, and fragments of animal bones.

The pierced tablet is a very remarkable specimen.

Further: Arrow and spear heads, a polished celt, a pierced tablet,
spool-shaped objects of copper, and a compact earthy mass inclosing
bears’ teeth (partly notched), and fragments of bones, from a mound
near Fountain Bluff, Jackson County.

Further: One hundred leaf-shaped implements of dark flint or horn-
stone from a subterranean deposit of one hundred and ten, on the farm
of John G. Simms, near De Soto, Jackson County. I have not yet
learned how the specimens were arranged under ground.

Further: A chungkee-stone (pierced and well finished), two Unio
shelis prepared to serve as spoons, and two thin sheets of copper, one
square, with two human figures, with head-dresses, apparently in the
act of dancing, stamped upon it, and the other in a less good state of
preservation, showing also a human figure similarly produced. These
objects came from a stone grave near Bluff Lake, Union County.
106 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.
KENTUCKY.

Mr. W. Kinney, of Portsmouth, Scioto County, Ohio, presented a cop-
per ornament from a mound in Greenup County, Kentucky. The speei-
men is not in its original shape, as represented in Fig. 10, but bent into
the form of a lump, doubtless with a view to frustrate further use after
its deposition. I have seen in Europe bronze swords bent double with
the same intention. Mr. Kinney states as follows:

The copper relic was found in an outlying mound in Greenup County, nearly oppo-
site the mouth of the Scioto River, and one of the group so frequently referred to by
Squier and others. This mound is in the first or lower river-terrace, while the main
works are on the next. On one occasion half a bushel of these ornaments was found
in the same mound and sent to the smelter.

TENNESSHE.

The Bureau of Ethnology delivered a collection from a mound on
McGee’s farm, Monroe County, namely: Small arrow-heads, polished
celts, a pestle, discoidal stones, a very fine large semicircular tanged
object (polished),* a clay pipe, a fragment of a stone pipe, drilled bears’
teeth, shell beads and pendants, a carved and open-worked shell disk
(gorget), cylindrical copper beads, glass beads (Huropean), and two
human skulls.

Further: Grooved axes, pierced tablets, bone implements (needles,
ete.), shell beads, pin-shaped objects of shell, shell gorgets (disk-
shaped), remarkable for the desigus engraved on them (spider and
human figures of Aztec character), and a rude shell mask (human face)
from a mound on Faine’s Island, 3 miles southeast of Dandridge, Jef-
ferson County. :

Further: Arrow-heads, hammer-stones, stone pipes, bone perforators,
bears’ teeth, shell beads, pin-shaped objects of shell, and a number o¢
disk-like gorgets and masks (human faces) of the same material. Some
of the former show well-executed designs of rattlesnakes, etc. From
‘‘McMahon Mound,” Sevier County.

Further: Flakes, rude chipped implements, scrapers, perforators, ar-
row and spear heads, polished celts, grooved axes, pierced tablets, a
spade-shaped pipe of chlorite (Fig. 11), bone perforators, shell beads,
and a slender straight copper implement, 104 inches long, square in the
cross-section, and tapering to a point at each end.

Further: A large flint digging tool (oval), polished celts and celt-
gouges (some very good), and a number of gaming-disks (?), from Lauder-
dale County.

Further: A large collection from ‘Citico Mound,” on MeSpadden’s
farm, in Monroe County, embracing arrow-heads, polished celts and
chisels, hammer-stones, pestles, stone disks, some of them polished,

"Il formerly called such specimens ‘‘scraper-like implements,” but having afterward
seen a large number of them, I am now inclined to class them as objects of orna-
mental or ceremonial character.

s
—

'

DEPARTMENT OF ARCHALOLOGY. 107

pierced tablets, stone pipes, a fragment ot a large pot-stone vessel,
pieces of red mineral paint, drilled bears’ teeth, bone perforators, shell
beads and pendants, pin-shaped objects of shell, shell masks (human
faces), clay vessels ornamented with raised figures, incised lines, ete.,
and human skulls and bones.

Mr. Edward D. Hicks, of Nashville, sent to the National Museum
three chipped flint objects, remarkable for large size and unusual forms,
namely: A sword or truncheon-like article (Fig. 12), and an imple-
ment (?) formed at one end like a crab’s claw (ig. 13), both from Hum-
phreys County. Also, a nearly circular disk (Fig. 14), measuring 9
inches in major diameter, and chipped to an edge around the cireum-
ference. This specimen, found in Stewart County, differs in make from
the disk-like flint articles found in deposits. These three objects, of
which casts were taken in the National Museum, are surface finds.

Large specimeus of gray flint, more or less analogous in form to
those just mentioned, are in the Peabody Museum at Cambridge, Mass.
They were Jikewise found in Humphreys and Stewart-Counties, in
mounds and on the surface. }

MICHIGAN.

Mr. D.S. Carvin, of Lyons, Fulton County, Ohio, preseuted a plat-
form pipe. It consists of the mottled stone which forms the material
of many of the pipes in the Squier and Davis collection, now in Eng-
land. It was found in a maize-field in Berrien County, Michigan.

WISCONSIN.

Two drilled bears’ teeth, two bone ornaments, two small sheets of
native silver, shaped by beating, and six cylindrical copper beads from
a mound at Warner’s Landing, Vernon County, were presented by Dr.
J. L. De Witt, of Newton, Vernon County. The pieces of sheet silver
are of special interest, being the first specimens of this kind given to the
Museum.

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received a leaf-shaped imple-
ment, fragments of burned bones, a copper or brass kettle, and a num-
ber of silver bracelets, gorgets, ear-rings, ete., from a mound in Craw-
ford County. The objects evidently accompanied an intrusive burial.

ARKANSAS.

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received small arrow-heads, ham-
mer-stones, chipped celts with polished cutting edges, polished celts,
mullers, grinding-stones, polishing-stones, gaming disks (?), bone per-
forators, and pieces of worked stag-horn from an ancient Indian burial
ground at Bradley’s Landing, Crittenden County.

Further: Rude leaf-shaped implements, small arrow-heads, perfora-
tors, hammer-stones, a polished celt, a semi-circular tanged object
108 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, - 1886.

(polished), a large quartz crystal, a bone perforator, and fragments of
animal bones from a mound in Pulaski County.

OREGON.

Mr. Charles Aldrich, of Webster City, Hamilton County, Iowa, pre-
sented a well-shaped stone pestle with a ring-like projection below the
tapering end. It was found near Grant’s Pass, Josephine County, Ore-

gon.
ARIZONA.

Mr. J. H. Carlton, of Pima, Graham County, presented a flake of chal-
cedony, arrow-heads, hammer-stones, grooved axes, mauls, rubbing-
stones, a metate, a pestle, a small mortar, arrow-shaft straighteners, a
polishing-stone, a pebble for smoothing pottery, a small paint muller,
an anvil-stone of cylindrical form, a conical stone pipe, a pierced stone
disk, shell ornaments, quartz crystals, a piece of unworked turquoise, a
clay bowl, and fragments of pottery. The objects were all found in

Graham County.
NEW MEXICO.

Mr. E. W. Nelson, of Springerville, Apache County, Ariz., sent a col-
lection from ruins on the headwaters of the San Francisco River, New
Mexico, consisting of stone perforators, grooved axes, mortars, a pestle,
a grinding-stone, rubbing-stones, arrow-shaft straighteners, perforated
cylindrical paint-stones, rock crystals showing use at the apex, frag-
ments of red and green mineral paint, stone carvings in human and
animal forms, bone awls, a bone whistle, pendants and beads of stone,
shell and pottery, including one of turquoise, and two human skulls.
The most remarkable piece in this collection, however, is a sandstone
slab, nearly square, with rounded corners, upon which is carved in
relief a rather conventional figure of a turtle. It is represented in Fig.
15.

From the same and the same locality, hammer-stones, grinding-stones,
pestles, grooved axes, paint mortars and mullers, ‘“ tanning-stones,”
one-half of a stone disk, fragments of a stone plate with many bi-conical
perforations, a stone carving representing the head of a coyote, a stone
carving in the shape of an owl, stone tubes and pipes, a small arrow-
head, twenty-four flat pierced pendants of turquoise, two of which are
represented in Figs. 16 and 17, a number of fragments of turquoise
pendants, bone perforators, fragments of a bone spear-head, a bear’s
claw, shell beads and other ornaments of shell, a truncated marine shell
(Agaronia testacea Lam.), a small brass bell, a nugget of native copper,
a piece of graphite, and pieces of red and green mineral paint.

ALASKA.

Mr. J. U. Johnson, of Fort Alexander, presented a spear-head-shaped
knife-blade of slate. two polished celts, and three adzes from Alaska.
Report of National Museum, 1886.—Rau PLATE III.

Fie. 12. Sword-like chipped flint implement, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 98665.

Fic. 13. Chipped flint implement—crab’s claw, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 98664. 3

Fie. 14. Chipped flint disk, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 98663. 4

6

Fie. 15. Sandstone slab, with figure of turtle in relief, New Mexico. Catalogue No. 98715 2
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAOLOGY. 109
MEXICO.

From Mr. L. H. Aymé, of Oaxaca, was acquired a large collection,
consisting of obsidian flakes and cores, a hammer-stone, polished celts
(one 11 inches in length), polishing-stones, implements with two flat,
deeply-striated faces (Fig. 18),* smail stone pendants, a large stone slab
with deep notches on one edge, a fragment of a pestle, a well-polished
disk-shaped ear-pendant of jade (pierced near the rim), fragments of
worked alabaster, a piece of stucco, beads made of entire shells either
pierced with a hole or truncated at the apex, a large pierced shell
(Strombus), a shell bead, a shell disk with central hole, fragments of
shells, and a large number of calcareous pebbles of unknown use.
Further, a number of stone carvings; namely, two large human figures
(one very well executed), a human head with widely-opened mouth
(part of a figure), a tiger’s head (part of a figure), and small squatting
figures (human) pierced for suspension.

GUATEMALA.

Mr. Miles Rock, of Washington, D. C., presented a boulder with a
face rudely carved on it from the ruins of Saculeo, near Huehuetenango,
a place supposed to be the ancient capital of the chiefs of the Mam In-
dians; and also the greater part of a Stone disk, exactly a foot in di-
ameter, having carved on it in relief a human head with an elaborate
head-dress. It may be intended to represent the Sun. This specimen
came from an altar in the ruins of an ancient temple on the summit of
Cerro Ixbul, 40 miles southeast of Comitan, Mexico.

NICARAGUA.

Mr. W. W. Evans, of New Rochelle, Westchester County, N. Y.,
sent a large block of tufa, to all appearance of volcanic origin, which
shows two impressions of small human feet, evidently produced while
the tufa was in a plastic state. The material replaced by the feet has
risen and forms a kind of ridge around the tracks. The history of this
highly interesting piece is not yet known, but will soon be communi-

cated.
UNITED STATES OF COLOMBIA.

By Mr. J. A. MecNiel, of Panama, was sent a large collection from
Indian graves of Chiriqui, State of Panama. The collection is com-
posed of trimmed flakes, arrow and spear heads, chisels, polished celts,
metates of various shapes (some in the form of animals), rubbing-stones,
baking-plates, a human stone figure (female), a human figure rudely
- *These stones resemble the wooden bark-beaters used by the South Sea Islanders
in making tapa-cloth, and probably also were used by the Mexicans for making bark
cloth or paper. I was :nformed that the people in Mexico employ at present these

stones, which appear to be frequent, for crushing chilli. This, however, may be a
secondary use.
110 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

carved from a boulder, two large stone slabs showing in relief, respeet-
ively, the figure of a monkey and of an alligator, and five fragments of
metates (heads of animals). Some of the celts are of very elegant form,
as shown in Fig. 19, representing one of them. The arrow and spear
heads chipped from flakes of flint and jasper frequently show the form
of a three-sided pyramid. This form seems to be peculiar to Chiriqui,
on the western continent, but it also occurs in greater perfection in

~Denmark and Sweden. A Chiriqui arrow-head of jasper is represented

in Fig. 20.
WEST INDIES.

Mr. F. A. Ober, of Beverly, Mass., presented a collection from the
Island of Nevis. It consists of four polished stone implements of re-
markable forms, and apparently designed for crushing and smoothing
purposes, three pestles, a polishing-stone, a fragment of a jade celt,
and two celts made of shell.

Messrs. Thomas Lee and Willard Nye, jr., connected with the U.S.
Commission of Fish and Visheries, obtained two polished celts on Abaco
Island; a polished celt, a rubbing-stone, and a fragment of worked bone
on New Providence Island; three polished celts, a chisel, a small drilled
pendant of fine workmanship (perhaps jade), seventy fragmentary hu-
inan bones, embracing skull and jaw bones and other parts of skeletons,
and fifteen pieces of smooth pottery, from a cave on Watling Island.

ROUTINE WORK.

The entering of specimens has been performed according to the
method followed in all departments of the National Museum. In the
general catalogue the running number cf the specimen is noted, together
with the private number, if there is one, and its character briefly indi-
cated; there are further mentioned the locality where the object was ob-
tained and the name of the donor or person from whom it was acquired;
lastly, the dateof the entry is given. This mode of recording would saf-
fice for certain classes of natural objects, and, indeed, suffices for such
stray antiquities as are simply taken from the surface; but it is far from
supplying the data required for archeologic specimens found in graves,
mounds, caves, shell-heaps, camping-grounds, deposits, ete.—in short,
under circumstances calculated to elucidate the modes and customs of
those by whom the objects were left. In such cases all attainable in-
formation contained in letters, or orally communicated, is carefully
noted in the “reference-book,” which thus forms the supplement to the
general catalogue—an archive affording the means of learning the his-
tory of many single objects and collections exhibited: in this depart-
ment. Whenever an entry is made in the reference-book, the page on
which it is to be found is indicated in the last column of the general
catalogue. The data recorded in the reference-book cover a period of
several years. (

‘
Report of National Museum, 1886.—Rau. PLATE IV.

Fic. 16. Turquoise pendant, New Mexico. Catalogue No. 98256. 1
Fig. 17. Turquoise pendant, New Mexico. Catalogue No. 98256a. 4

Fic. 18. Polishing-stone or bark-beater, Mexico. Catalogue No. 98279. 1

Fig. 19. Polished celt, Chiriqui, United States of Colombia. Catalogue No. 98555.

ot
4
Fig. 20. Jasper arrow-head, Chiriqui, United States of Colombia. Catalogue No. 98477. 4
a

DEPARTMENT OF ARCH XOLOGY. 111

The specimens handed to my care are carefully examined, and the
best and most characteristic set apart for exhibition. Duplicates which
can not in any way add to the value of the collection receive a cata-
logue number, but, instead of being exhibited, are placed in drawers
and reserved for exchanges. This mode of discrimination, however, is
chiefly applied to the numerous specimens—mostly of chipped stone—
which are found on the surface, but hardly ever to small or large col-
lections of artefacts and human or animal remains obtained from graves,
mounds, shell-heaps, caves, etc. Such objects, even when insignificant
as specimens, are generally kept together and exhibited as a whole.

I have for years followed a dualistic system in arranging the antiqui-
ties of this country. There is, asI stated in my report for 18384, a large
general collection (mostly exhibited in table cases), which consists of
relics of chipped and ground stone, of copper, bone, horn, shell, clay,
and, to a small extent, of wood. These objects have been grouped
according to material, and then classed under such denominations as
their forms indicated or suggested, and with strict regard to the transi-
tion or evolution from simple to more developed forms. This arrange-
ment offers to the intelligent visitor an opportunity to take in at one
glance, as it were, the whole culture of the prehistoric North American,
as far as it can be represented by visible tokens.

There are, secondly, the before-mentioned special or local coliections,
composed of North American articles found in one locality—a mound,
grave, artificial shell-deposit, etc. These collections are designed to
show the difference in the mechanical acquirements and modes of life
of the people formerly inhabiting the various parts of this country.

While comparatively few additions are made to the general collection,
which as it is fully serves its purpose, the number of special collec-
tions is constantly increased, and thus, in the course of time, every sec-
tion of North America will be represented. The collections in question,
of course, vary much in extent; they some times only fill a tray, but
occasionally occupy several shelves of an upright case. Ultimately
they will be arranged geographically.

The observations thus far made relate to collections from portions of
this continent north of Mexico, Central and South America, Japan, ete.;
and a representative series of prehistoric antiquities from Europe.

In the course of this fiscal year 119 special collections, small and large,
have been placed on exhibition. By far the greater number (88) were
delivered by the Bureau of Mthnology. The others are contributions or
acquisitions from private persons. ‘The more important ones have been
mentioned in the first section of this report.

The number of duplicate specimens sent during the year to individu-
als in exchange for objects received in this department, or in others,
was comparatively small. A grooved stone maul from the Moquis,
Arizona, was sent to C. M. Sawyer, Mechanics’ Falls, Androscoggin
County, Maine. The Rev. Mr. Kessler, Magdeburg, Prussia, received
112 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

a collection of relics, embracing arrow and spear heads, a polished celt,
a grooved ax, and fragments of pottery ; 65 specimens inall, A grooved
polished stone hammer from Arizona was forwarded to O. P. Rodgers,
Marengo, McHenry County, Llinois. To J. P. MacLean, Hamilton,
Butler County, Obio, were sent five casts of an incised stone tablet
found in a mound at Waverly, Pike County, Chio.

Many persons visiting the department have taken notes and asked
questions bearing upon the antiquities there exhibited, and all desired
information has been promptly given. Such inquiries, it may be pre-
sumed, were chiefly made for the sake of self-instruction, but probably
also in some cases with a view to literary utilization. I had myself con-
stantly occasion to re examine certain groups or series of specimens,
being engaged in the composition of an illustrated work on North
American antiquities, which is designed to serve as a guide to visitors
of the department, and will bear the title “‘ A Classification of the North
American Prehistoric Relies in the U. 8S. National Museum.” More
than half of it is in manuscript, and an artist is engaged in making the
drawings with which it will be illustrated.

The present condition of the collection is given in the following tab-
ular statement:

TOTAL NUMBER OF SPECIMENS ENTERED IN THIS DEPARTMENT.

EP habiiion) and ist diy iSerivesy ise 5.2 (a ee cele es epee ee aa ae eevee ae 40, 281
Dp CAbOS aoe cacl- siete mee eee ame emale noe oa) alanlowe sha aeaet eee re eee 8, 482
— 48, 763
RECEIVED FROM THE BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.
From pueblos in New Mexico and Arizona for the years 1880 to 1882 .. 2, 695
From mound explorations, ete.:
Hormthery ear ending.) unersUGSa ou ane te ees Seeee eee eeteaesss 4, 285
Horthe-year ending) June S0Wies4 Soe cio ckisle cele le ental matieletelelaiohee 6, 436
Hor the year endin's June S088 oss oet soe ss ninais eis tece matseae eee 3, 135
— 16,551
Robalinumberiol specimenses see ose eels Walenta oe tear ae ea ey eaeyet 65, 314

TOTAL NUMBER OF SPECIMENS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR (INCLUDED IN THE
ABOVE TOTAL).

Exhibition and study Series [22-2 e sss. snes cn sclcels ne maeeiaeeeeise eer cleees 2, 667
DD UpPliCabess sawn oe cet ecioes | soci teerianetca A ce\stc elle ee arom eee eres ner meets 84
Mortals sae metceracis Bereta Beas Since cide aia wate citer sete eve ere te eee eee 2, 751

a

i
REPORT ON THE SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES IN THE U, 8.
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 350, 18386,

By Romyn HircHcook, Acting Curator.

In accordance with your suggestion that I should prepare a report
covering, in a general way, the period of my connection with the Mu-
seum, I have endeavored to give, in a condensed form, a review of the
work done, and a statement of the present condition of the collections
in my charge. The different divisions of work assigned to me cover so
large a field that it has been impossible to give particular attention to
all of them. My work has, therefore, been mainly confined to the two
sections of textiles and foods. In addition to these I have received and
classified material belonging to the following sections, as enumerated in
the “Scheme of Museum Classification” published in the Appendix
to the Proceedings of the Museum for 1881, viz :

12. The elements and their combinations, chemical collections.
21. Preparation of food-stuffs, narcotics, etc.

22. Distillation, manufacture of perfumeries, ete.

23. Oils, fats, soaps, and waxes; their preparation and use.

24. Gums, resins, glues, cements.

25. Pigments and dyes.

26. The chemical manufactures and their products.

29. Fibers, cordage, textile fabrics, needle-work.

30. Paper and its manufacture.

I have also taken charge of the Smithsonian collection of philosophical
apparatus, which is on exhibition in the north hall.

In a communication from you dated October 13, 1835, you expressed
a desire that I would “take charge of all technological material, es-
pecially raw materials and products not otherwise already assigned,”
and stated that “the greater portion of this will doubtless come to you
permanently, as soon as the departments having an interest in such ma-
terial are developed.” Accordingly, I have endeavored to catalogue,
classify and preserve a great mass of material that it would be impos-
sible for one curator with a single assistant to study, label and prepare
for exhibition. That material, however, is available for use at any time,
and will some day be of great value to the Museun.

In glancing over the names of the sections mentioned above, it may
seem that they include rather a heterogeneous collection, but with the

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 8 113

114 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

exception of the section of fibers, etc., it will be seen that they may all
be included under pure and applied chemistry, and are, therefore, more
or less directly connected, although very properly separated in different
sections for museum purposes.

The section of textiles has engaged my attention most fully during
two years. My connection with the Museum dates from November,
1883, when an office in the east tower, on the ground floor, was assigned
to me, Mr. I’. H. Towne, who had previously been engaged on the col-
lections as preparator, acting as assistant. A few specimens of textile
fibers and fabrics were then on exhibition, but without labels, in the
west hal!. A large number of specimens of foods in bottles were on ex-
hibition in the northwest range, but very imperfectly classified, and
not selected with discrimination. A large collection of fibers and
fabrics, mostly from the Centennial exhibition of 1876 was still un-
packed and required attention. These were immediately prepared for
study. The different divisions of work wiil now be separately re-
viewed.

The early work in this section was very much retarded, and some of
it was not very perfectly done, so that it required subsequent revision,
owing to the want of necessary books of reference. A sectional library
was soon provided, which has served very well, but even now some very
useful books of reference are not available. It was soon found that
much of the accumulated material was of little value, owing to deteriora-
tion by long keeping, the loss of marks for identification, and other
causes. Gradually such specimens were eliminated, and the plan has
been followed throughout the section to discard all specimens of even
doubtful identity, except when it was thought their identity might be
established in future, in which case, when the specimen was a good one
that might not be easily replaced, it was catalogued and held in re-
serve.

Four series of specimens are provided for in this section, viz: exhibi-
tion series, study series, reserve series, and duplicate series.

This series includes all specimens mounted for exhibition. Owing to
the limited space on the Museum floor the mounted specimens are not
all on exhibition at the present time, but the unit boxes containing them
are ready for display when space permits. Every specimen in this se-
ries is provided with either a written or a printed label.

A system of marking the catalogue cards has been adopted which
indicates at a glance when a specimen is in the exhibition series and
when a label has been written for the printer. The mark © on a ¢ata-
logue card indicates that a specimen is mounted for exhibition and if fol-
lowed by a check, thus © y, the label for printing is written.

The system of classification proposed some time ago in one of my re-
ports has been earried out in a general way, but the collection is so
broken up by the necessity of storing specimens that should be shown,
that the system can not be strictly adhered, to. Beginning at the er-
SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES. 115°

trance of the court (the collection is now in the northeast court, occupy-
ing about one-half of the floor-space), the visitor first comes to the textile
materials used in their natural condition, such as rough barks, made
into ropes by Indians and primitive tribes in different countries; esparto,
made into coarse mats in Spain; palm-leaves, woven into baskets, hats,
etc. Then may be seen varieties of tree-down, often known as tree-
cotton, including the patna cf Brazil in variety, showing how the down
occurs in the seed-pods, and the pulu of the Sandwich Islands. These
materials are used, without preparation, for stuffing. Then follow va-
rieties of fibers extracted from stalks and leaves of plants, the coarser
ones used for ropes, the finer for yarns suitable for knitting and weav-
ing. Among these is a good series representing the ramie industry,
which may become of considerable importance to this country; collec-
tions of New Zealand flax, common flax, agave fibers in great variety,
and many others, leading up to cotton. The manufacture of cotton
thread is represented by a case of eight unit boxes, mounted especially
for the Museum by the Willimantic Linen Company, and is one of the
best exhibits in the series. Following cotton come fibers from the
animal kingdom, horse-hair, wool, and silk.

Some attempt has been made to prepare a good display of spinning
and weaving appliances, but the space is too much restricted to per-
mit of proper display of what apparatus we have. A case is filled with
spinning-wheels, reels, etc., which were in use many years ago in the
preparation of flax, cotton, and wool yarns for hand-looms, but it is not
as attractive or instructive as it should be. It is interesting to com-
pare the primitive implements used for the same purposes in different
countries, examples of which are shown. For instance, there is a hand
reel of the present day from Siam, which is precisely like the common
English reel, except that in the former the cross-pieces are in one plane,
while in the latter they are placed at right angles. This very slight
change makes the English reel.of a century ago far more convenient
to use than the one now in use in Siam.

Among the looms may be seen some very excellent specimens from
various parts of the world. Perhaps the simplest are those still in use
by the Indians of North America, of which, however, there are several
varieties. In one case a fine Pimo Indian loom, collected by Dr. Edward
Palmer, is well shown and described. A Moqui loom is also shown, but
not in as good condition. Quite recently a Zuni loom was set up and
some weaving done upon it by the Indian girl Wawah, thus enabling
me to follow the successive operations and understand them better than
has been possible from written descriptions. A loom of the Talamanca
Indians, of Costa Rica, with specimens of cloth, is of interest. A loom
from the Ainos, of Japan, is also of special interest in connection with
the Indian loom, owing to certain distinguishing features in the device
for opening the warp for the passage of the shuttle.

A number of photographs of the Indian girl Wawah engaged in the
ALG REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18386.

various operations of spinning, preparing loom and warp, and weaving,
were taken, and are used to illustrate the methods of work among the
Zuiis. :

The study series of fiders includes authentically named specimens in-
tended for microscopical examination. Appended to this report is a spe-
cial article on preparing microscopical mounts of vegetable textile fibers.
The study series is valuable, indeed, absolutely necessary, as it is not
unfrequently required to use small portions of fibers for comparison
with others for identification. Occasionally requests for typical speci-
mens of fibers are received, which have been supplied from the study
series. Itis expected that specimens will be sent to the Museum for
identification from time to time. ‘The study series will afford a means
of identification probably better than can be elsewhere found. It is not,
however, by any means complete. LEvery distinct fiber in the textiles
collection is represented in this series, but not every fiber in use is so
represented.

An alphabetical catalogue of objects in the study series is kept on cards
in the office of the curator and a list has been prepared and is published
aS an appendix to this report.

When small specimens of textiles are received that seem to possess
a scientific rather than popular interest, or which are for some reason
not suitable for exhibition, they are placed in this series.

The reserve series includes specimens of value for purposes of ex-
hibition, which can not be immediately mounted. When such speci-
mens have been catalogued they are marked ‘ reserve,” and placed in
drawers in numerical order, and the fact is noted on the catalogue card.
If a portion is desired in the study series it is selected at the time and so
indicated on the catalogue card.

The duplicate series includes those specimens available for ex-
changes. These are stored in drawers or in storage boxes. A special
series of cards, numerically arranged, gives a list of the specimens in
this series and indicates their location. The specimens in general stor-
age, however, are enumerated on special storage catalogue cards, bear-
ing the storage number of the boxes and a list of their contents, so that
any specimen can be obtained without; delay.

An alphabetical list, arranged by both common and botanical names,
of all the specimens in the collection, including all in the four series
enumerated above, has been prepared, and will some day be submitted
for publication.

The arranging of the textiles collection in accordance with the plan
outlined above has been perfected, and its advantages are apparent in
the ease with which new material can be handled. Immediately a new
specimen is received, the general alphabetical list shows whether it is
’ new to the collection or is from a new locality. Its value can be deter-
mined at once, and its place in one of the four series assigned to it.
Thus an accumulation of useless mate rial for exhibition is avoided, and
the collections are maintained in good order.
SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES. 17

SECTION OF FOODS.

In this section it is intended to show specimens of foods that may
possess special interest, especially such as are used by primitive peo-
ples and in foreign lands. A more important feature, however, will be
to afford information concerning the nutritive value of various articles
of food in daily use, and to aid in the dissemination of knowledge upon
the important subject of nutrition. The relation between the cost of an
article of food and its value for nutritive purposes is an important con-
sideration, especially for the poorer classes of laboring people. It has
long been a matter of pride with us that the laboring classes in the
United States live far better than those doing the same work in foreign
countries. But they are enabled to do so because they receive higher
wages and it seems not improbable that the growing competition be-
tween nations will require greater economy in labor here, and it will
then be necessary for the poorer classes to exercise more economy in
living. It becomes, therefore, very desirable to learn not only what
are the most nutritive foods, but, a matter of greater practical impor-
tance, what are the cheapest and best foods to buy. Also, what are the
best combinations of food, and how these should be prepared. Some of
these questions have been carefully studied by Prof. W. O. Atwater,
and the results of many analyses made by him are now available for
use in this section of the Museum. As a matter of fact, there is no
doubt our laboring classes are living extravagantly and that by in-
telligent direction, involving instruction in the art of cooking as well
as in the selection of proper food, their expenses can be considerably
reduced without detriment to the excellence of the food provided.

The collections in this section are not yet sufficiently advanced to
demonstrate these purposes in view. It will be the work of consider-
able time, but a beginning has been made in two cases now on exhibi-
tion. The first of these illustrates the chemical composition of the
human body, showing on one side the elements found in the body, in
their relative proportions; on the other side the principal compounds.
In the second case are shown specimens illustrating the daily income
and expenditure of the body, and the quantity of various constituents
of food required to supply the waste. The constituents of a ration for
one day are shown and the transformations they undergo in the body
are described. The composition of a loaf of bread is also illustrated by
specimens. These examples will indicate the practical and instructive
tendencies of the exhibits in this séction.

A collection of foods used by the Indians of North America is now
arranged, including all the specimens now on hand, and occupies two
full cases. It is not complete and can not be made so until a competent
and experienced collector, like Dr. Edward Palmer, who is better ac-
quainted with this subject than any other person, is commissioned to
travel among the Indians and supply the deficiencies. It is very desir-
able that this should be done as soon as possible.
118 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Among the specimens of general interest may be mentioned a case
of Japanese foods received from the Department of Education at Tokyo,
which includes many curious products. Another case is filled with
preparations of animal foods from various localities. Another case con-
tains farinaceous products.

There is still in reserve a great variety of food-products, some of
which are useful for display; others will be eventually discarded. Time
has not permitted the arranging of these.

Little has been done in the section of chemical manufactures, but
such specimens as have been received have been cared for and afew of
them placed on exhibition. An excellent series of chemical elements
and compounds will soon be systematically arranged for display, prob-
ably during the month of July.

It is intended to represent in this section the chemical industries of
the country as fully as possible by museum specimens and photographic
views of processes and apparatus.

A desideratum in connection with the work of this division is a Jab-
oratory equipped with the necessary apparatus for chemical work. It
need not be large or expensive but it should afford facilities for a certain
amount of analytical work, both qualitative and quantitative, and
especially for the preparation of compounds that are required in the
exhibits. The want of such a laboratory has been keenly felt not only in
this but also in other sections in my charge.

A considerable quantity of material, to be distributed among the
various sections not yet provided for on the floor of the Museum, has
been received. It is all classified and stored on the north balcony,
where it is available for use at any time. This includes gums, resins,
dyes, pigments, oils, fats, soaps, waxes, perfumery, essences, and other
articles.

The following table shows the present extent of the collections :

Specimens.
Dextilesomexhibitioane. oo. sms acias see se ee eel e oe eae ee nLOg,
Textiles in*study seriesty ss 2). ass. ee oe cee eee eees 317
Food products onfexhibition!)2 32-5222 sonec cee loose see 594
Chemical products on exhibition ..............- yetibseee 659

REPORT ON THE SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION IN THE U. 8,
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1886,

By J. ELFRETH WATKINS, ©. E., Honorary Curator.

The section of steam transportation was organized and placed under
my charge on the 13th of June, 1885.

It is the design of this section to illustrate by drawings, models, rel-
ics, ete., the birth and development of steam transportation inAmerica,
both on water and on land, so that the humble mechanic who visits the
Museum may be able to take away with him an intelligent idea of the
successive steps in the progress of invention of steam appliances, that
have led up to the ocean steam-ship and the fast passenger express and
powerful consolidated freight locomotives of to-day.

It seems indeed proper that an attempt should be made to preserve
the history of this department of industry, which has had such an im-
mense influence upon the growth of our nation and the development of
our civilization during the nineteenth century.

It is estimated that up to January 1, 1886, 130,000 miles of railway
had been built, and $7,500,000,000 had been invested in railway stocks
and bonds in the United States, and over $2,000,000,000 in steam-ships
touching at American ports and steam-boats navigating inland streams,
a total of nearly $10,000,000,000—ten billions of dollars.

In 1883 the total taxable property, real and personal, as assessed to
the thirty-eight States, was $17,026,307,374.*

The census tables of 1880 give the following enumeration of people
in the United States who are connected with the transportation indus-
try:

Suamboatmen, stewards) ete! sla csstcescss wesw eos se esse cess. Son duek- 155) 5386
Railway: ofticials; clerks, and employés=\.'.% 22.2. .-006 ices. eb es aac ene sees 250, 458
Express officials; clerks, and.employ6s:..a<...2s0c0csecc- enn cone enceee sees 14, 860
Transportation companies and employés..........--..--02------00++ ----e- 9, 702

PO Tal RO Me seo apa onde et eyeateee otto ib cline arte ae ne desea nine eve slelses ene 330, 556

Of the 17,592,000 persons engaged in all branches of labor, trade,
manufacture, and professions in the United States in 1880, the number

* See Spofford’s American Almanac, 1884, page 105,
119
120 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

of employés of railway, express, and transportation companies was ex-
ceeded only by the following classes :

1. Agricultural laborers, who numbered ...---.--------------------------- 3, 323, 876
2. Farmers and planters, who numbered .......-------------------------- 4, 225, 945
3) Domestic servants: who numbered 2222 .0.0-c\s22-o5eeee nee oases 1, 075, 653
4, Laborers, unclassified, who numbered .......--.---------------------- 1, 859, 223
5. Carpenters and joiners, who numbered .....----.---------------------- 373, 143
6s @lerksiin stores; who mumbered 24-202 Sie no 2. 22 Boo seca tlre ee 353, 444

As Nos. 1 and 2 are practically one class, and No. 4 is no class, rail-
way and transportation employés are the fifth class in point of number.

Of the 55,000,000 of inhabitants of the United States, what class is
not directly interested in the progress of invention, whereby we enjoy
speed, comfort, and safety, in transportation by steam over our rail-
roads and water-courses?

The following preliminary scheme for the organization of the section
was suggested by the curator, and indorsed by the Assistant Secretary,
in October, 1885. It will be modified from time to time as circum-
stances may permit.

PRELIMINARY SCHEME OF ORGANIZATION.

To obtain originals or models of early steam-boats, locomotives,
track, cars, ete., with history enough of each to make a label. Show
early experimental track and short pieces of various patterns of rail.

To obtain drawings or photographs of early steam-boats, locomo-
tives, etc., to be arranged on hinged frames, in accordance with the
system now in use in other sections and departments of the Museum.

As soon as practicable, to issue a circular letter, under the authority
of the Smithsonian Institution, giving an outline of the scheme, to be
forwarded to engineering and scientific societies, railway officials and
employés, urgently requesting their co-operation and suggesting the
formation of a National Railway Historical Society.

When the section has made some progress, to issue a bulletin giv-
ing a general history of early steam-boats and locomotives and the
birth of the American railway system, as exemplified in the collections
of the National Museum.

To create a sectional library, which shall contain all books, maga-
zines, pamphlets, obtainable that bear on the history of American rail-
ways, and in this section of the National Museum to keep a catalogue
containing the names of the authors, title of book, publisher, ete., with
directions as to where such book may be found, for the benefit of such
persons as may be interested in these subjects.

In connection with the history of transportation in general, to show
pack horses, freight wagons, stage coaches, early canal boats, post boys,
mail coach, ete.

To show by models, drawings, and relics the develpment of the sta-
PLATE lI.

Report of National Museum, 1886.—Watkins,

‘poquvas aq prnoys Auvd
-Wl0N proapey Aoqury pur uapurey oy Aq AJ poyse sosop aud ures of} AoqoTM opHoep 0} ‘TEgp ‘toqureaoN ‘asdf MON JO 9784S oq} JO sanjze[stsoT oT Aq poqoodsuy

“LESL ‘ASSYSL MAN SO 3LVLG SHL NI NIVEL AVMTIVY WSLS LSdls SHL “SUYVD YAONASSVd OML ANY «, TING NHOP,, SAILOWO907

7

2) Gata.
Vf f SN IN

“MTN

SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. a sta

tionary steam-engine and the beginning of invention of the steam-boat,
locomotives, passenger and freight cars, ete.

It was not until November, 1885, that any space in the Museum was
assigned to this section. In that month the locomotive “ John Bull,”
engine No. 1, Camden and Amboy Railroad Company, 1831, was placed
upon exhibition. While by no means the first, this is the oldest loco-
motive in America, It ran the first train on any road owned, leased, or
operated by the Pennsylvania [Railroad Company, and was presented
by that corporation to the National Museum. The locomotive in Pl. 1
is drawn from a tracing made by Isaac Dripps, of Philadelphia, the
first person on this side the water to run No. 1, from the original
working drawing, which accompanied this locomotive from the works
of Stephenson & Company, Neweastle-on-Tyne, England, in 1831.
This tracing is on a reduced scale; the tender is from a drawing by
Mr. Dripps, and the two cars are from a cut which was used by the
manufacturers, M. P. & M. E. Green, of Hobokon, N. J., as an adver-
tisement in 1832. The whole was put together and was reduced to the
same scale under the supervision of Mr. Dripps. <A section of the origi-
nal track, consisting of stone blocks, iron rails with a base, iron joint
“tongues” (Pl. I, fig. 1), ‘ hook-headed spikes” (Pl. II, fig. 2), rivets
(Pl. 1, fig. 3) through the stem of the rail, has been presented to the
Museum. ‘This relic was originally collected by the late Col. I. S. Buck-
elew, for many years superintendent of the Amboy Division of the Penn-
sylvania Railroad until his death, November 24, 1884, and given by him
to the curator, who has presented it in his name to the Museum. It is
a most valuable relic, since it exemplifies the earliest period of the in-
ventions which have since developed into the American system of per-
manent way.

In 1831 the track of this company was unique. After a lapse of half
a century the cross-tie has superseded the stone block, it is true, but
the rail with the base, the ‘‘hook-headed” spike, the “ tongue” length-
ened and strengthened into the splice-bar or fish-plate, and the “ rivet”
changed into a bolt and nut, is found in all standards of American
track. This section of track was examined by the late Ashbel Welch,
C. ., past president of the American Society of Civil Engineers, who
was present at the opening of this portion of the road, and afterwards
became chief engineer and president of the system to which the Cam-
den and Amboy Railroad was attached. From memory and notes he
pronounced it and the description authentic.

Sections of “ fish-bellied” rail, with chair, imported from England in
1832 by the New Jersey Railroad Company, and laid near Newark,
- have also been obtained, together with cross-sections of various pat-
terns of rail experimented with between 1835 and 1845.

By a careful search through the files of the Patent Office for plans of
Switches, frogs, signals, splices, etc., in which work I received the
122 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

courteous assistance of the examiners in charge, quite a number of
drawings which accompany the patent specifications were found. These
are of great interest, showing the fluctuations of thought at various
intervals. It is intended to arrange these for exhibition at some future
time.

The loss of models, ete., by the fire of 1877, is to be deplored, as a
wide field for investigation was destroyed by this occurrence.

Lack of time has prevented me from giving much attention to steam-
boats and marineengines. While the collection is meager, itis a nucleus
which, I trust, will attract the attention of marine engineers and steam-
ship builders. Their co-operation in this direction would be invaluable.

A portion of the chain gearing of Rumsey’s original steam-boat, which
was used on the Potomac River in 1787, is in the collection.

Efforts are being made, with promise of success, to obtain drawings,
etc., of many of Ericsson’s inventions.

In the museum of the Stevens Institute, Hoboken, N. J., may be seen
the original machinery of the propeller steam-boat, invented and con-
structed by Col. John Stevens, and navigated by him in 1803 and 1804,

A drawing of this machinery has been obtained, and a sketch of what
is left of the original propeller, which is also at Stevens Institute, and
which is a most valuable relic, is promised for our collection. I am in
hopes of having a duplicate made at some future time.

A sketch of Fulton’s Clermont, 1807, and a drawing of the machinery
of this historic boat will shortly be placed on exhibition.

Plan of Fulton’s original ferry system, steam-boat with single paddle
wheel in center, and floating bridge, and slip at dock, 1812, has also
been obtained. This is a fac-simile, on a reduced scale, of the original,
drawing made by Robert Fulton.

Through the kindness of Mr. Francis B. Stevens, grandson of Col-
onel Stevens, of Hoboken, N.J., and nephew of Robert L. Stevens, who
built and navigated the steam-boat Phenix, launched in 1807 (two
weeks after Fulton’s Clermont), a photograph from an oil-painting of
this historic boat, the first steam-boat to navigate the ocean (from Sandy
Hook to Cape May), has been obtained.

Mr. Isaac Dripps has had constructed a model one-eighth of full size,
in brass, of what he claims to be the first screw-propeller ever placed in
the stern of a steam-boat, before the rudder, on this side of the Atlantic,
and has presented it tothe Museum. The original propeller-wheel was
constructed by Mr. Dripps in 1837, and was by him attached to the
steam-boat New Jersey, which, by the way, was the first iron steam-_
boat to cross the Atlantic. It was the use of this propeller that caused
the differences between Captain Ericsson and the Stevens brothers, re-
sulting in the legal establishment of the fact that their father navigated
the propeller steam-boat alluded to above on the Hudson in 1803-04.

One of the iron plates from the hull of the New Jersey, collected by
Colonel Bucklew, is also a part of the Museum collection.
Report of National Museum, 1886,—Watkins. PLaTE Il.
a

N¥,7
J
{|

fl i (« ath
DY ; UGA Los

RU ssl

DETAILS OF TRACK, CAMDEN AND AMBOY RAILROAD, 1831.

Fic. 1. Iron tongue to hold rails together at joints ; one tongue only used at each joint.

Fia. 2. Iron rivets (put on hot) to join tongue to stem of T-rail—two rivets used at each joint.

Fia. 3. ‘* Hook-headed spike,’ so called because the head only extended beyond one side.
signed to fasten the base of the rail to the stone block without a chair.

It was de-
SECTION OF:STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 123

On the 17th day of June, 1885, I attended the annual convention of the
Association of American Master Mechanics, at Willard’s Hall, Washing-
ton, D.C. After the privileges of the floor had been granted me to ex-
plain the purposes for which the section had been established, the
following resolution was adopted, and the following correspondence
ensued :

RESOLUTION PASSED BY THE AMERICAN MASTER MECHANICS’ ASSOCIATION, IN AN-
NUAL CONVENTION ASSEMBLED, AT WASHINGTON, D. C., JUNE 17, 1885.

Resolved, That the American Railway Master Mechanics’ Association has learned with
great pleasure of the establishment by the Directory of the National Museum of the
department of steam transportation (both railway and steam-boat), for the purpose of
collecting and preserving materials which will illustrate the railway history and its
development in this country. This association hereby heartily indorses the action
referred to, and recommends that the members, as far as they can, assist Mr. Watkins,
the curator in charge, in making such collections as will fulfill the purpose for which
the department has been established.

* * * * * * *
REPLY FROM PROFESSOR BAIRD.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,
Washington, D. C., June 25, 1885.
Dear Sir: Mr. J. E. Watkins informs us that at the recent convention of the So-
ciety of Master Mechanics he was afforded by the officers of the society special facili-
ties for the purpose of explaining the plan of the National Museum for the develop-
ment of the collection illustrating the history of American railways. I desire through
you to extend the thanks of the Museum to the society for the facilities afforded Mr.
Watkins, and for the interest which was manifested in his work. I hope that through
the co-operation of the society Mr. Watkins may be enabled to do very much towards
developing this department, in which he and all of us are so greatly interested.
I have‘the honor to be, yours, very respectfully,
SPENCER F. Bairp,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution and Director U. S. National Museum.
J. H. SETCHEL, Esq.,
Secretary American Railway Master Mechanics’ Association.

The following circular letter was distributed among the members of
the American Society of Civil Engineers, at their annual convention at
Deer Park, Md., June, 1885. They, too, allowed me to occupy the floor,
and after addressing them upon the subject much interest was mani-
fested by the members, and much individual aid was promised.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MusEuM,
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, June 20, 1885.

Mr. A
Member American Society of Civil Engineers :

My Dear Sir: I beg leave to call your attention to the following letter:

‘“To whom it may concern: Mr. J, E. Watkins, of Camden, N. J., has been ap-
pointed Honorary Curator of the Section of Steam Transportation (Railways and
Steam-boats) in the U. S. National Museum.

“Mr. Watkins is authorized to treat in the interests of the National Museum with
any persons who may be willing to aid in the development of this section, and to add
124 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

to the collection already in the Museum objects illustrative of the history and growth
of this industry in the United States. Specimens thus acquired will be exhibited in
the Museum in the name of the donor.
‘¢ SPENCER F. BAIRD,
“ Secretary Smithsonian Institution and Director U. S. National Museum.”

In order that the collection in connection with this section may be mace as com-
plete and creditable as possible your co-operation is earnestly requested.

The Pennsyivania Railroad Company has already presented to the Museum loco-
motive No. 1 (of the Camden and Amboy Railroad Company), more familiarly known
as the ‘‘John Bull,” together with a section of the original track, laid with stone
blocks, etc., upon which this, the oldest engine on their system, ran. Many other
valuable relics from other railroads have also been furnished.

Ishall be glad to receive information as to the whereabouts of parts of such loco-
motives, cars, steam-boats, track, etc., as may be of historic value, together with au-
thentic drawings of early railway appliances, also old tickets, old time-tables, systems
of old baggage checks, etc.

A nation which contains within its borders over 120,000 miles of railway, represent-
ing a stock and bonded capital of over $7,000,000,000, should be zealous to preserve
the history of the efforts of the pioneers in railway construction and equipment,
which, during the last half century, have had such an immense influence upon our
growth and the development of our civilization.

With this end in view the authorities of the National Museum have organized this
section, by which they hope to perpetuate the history of the birth and development
of the Americanrailway and steam-boat, as well as to add an interesting and instruct-
ive feature to the Museum, which is annually visited by between two hundred and
three hundred thousand persons, hailing from every State and Territory in the Union,
as well as from almost every nation.

Yours, respectfully, J. ELFRETH WATKINS,
Honorary Curator Section Steam Transportation.

On the 16th of January, 1886, I sailed from New York for a visit to
the museums of the Old World in the interests of the section of steam
transportation, and to investigate for the Pennsylvania Railroad Com-
pany the subject of electric lighting of railway cars and stations, and to
examine the various systems of handling freight at large terminal sta- .
tions abroad.

Through credentials furnished by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and letters from officials of the Pennsylvania Railroad Com-
pany, unusual facilities were afforded me by the officials of railways and
museums to make good use of fifty days on foreign soil.

Most tourists go abroad during the summer months and do EKu-
rope while everything is at its best. TF'rom the 29th of January, when
we landed at Antwerp, until March 20, when we sailed from the same
port, we had abundant opportunity to judge of the relative merits of
foreign railways and American railroads so far as safety, speed, and
comfort are concerned, in unpleasant winter weather. The ground
covered was as follows :

New York to Antwerp (Belgium), to Harwich (England), to London,
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Port Glasgow, Greenock, Belfast (Ireland),
Giant’s Causeway, Londonderry, Strabane, Dublin, Galway, Limerick,
Cork, Dublin, Holyhead (England), Chester, Liverpool, Crewe, Man-
PLATE III.

Report of National Museum, 1886.—Watkins.

O8 DNIHDISM WVY G3S0V3SH-T1INgG

“‘GYVA Yad SGNNOd
‘SHIVHD GNV SSIL-SSOUD TSSLS-LHDNOYUM AVM-LNANVWYSd JO WALSAS SdSM SHL

ww
SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 125

chester, Wolverton, London, Southampton, Havre (France), Modane,
Mont Cenis tunnel, Milan (Italy), Venice, back to Milan, and through
the St. Gothard tunnel to Basle, Strasburg, Brussels, Cologne, Aunt-
werp, and New York—over 11,000 miles.

The great city of London, 33 miles long and 22 wide, with the scores
of railway stations, its miles of underground rapid-transit roads, and
immense freight terminals, furnishes perhaps the most diversified field
of investigation in the universe to the engineer or railroad historian.

The management ot the signal box “A,” at Waterloo station, London
and South Western Railway, under which more trains pass per day than
under any other box in the world, was most interesting. Notwithstand-
ing the fact that a dense fog, such as one only sees in London, was
prevailing at the time, the traffic inbound, which is very heavy about
9 a. m., was handled with comparative dispatch and perfect safety by
the interlocking-switch system. While I was in the box it was visited
by a government inspector, appointed by the board of trade, who ex-
amined the details of the working of the levers, and expressed satisfac-
tion that some changes in the mechanism which he had suggested at a
previous visit had been so promptly made.

This surveillance by government officials is said to have been attended
by most beneficial results.

As the extreme length of the British Isle is about 550 miles, what
we call here a long run is unknown there. The journey from London
(Euston Station) to Edinburgh, via the London, Northwestern and Cal-
edonian Railways, 401 miles, via the 10 a. m. express, February 13,
1886, was made in a little less than ten hours, 541 minutes actual run-
ning time, at an average speed while running of 445 miles per hour.

The journey was made in a compartment with lavatory, in a carriage
which contained every convenience, for which a first-class fare of £3 4s.
Od. was charged. This is a journey similar to that from Jersey City to
Pittsburgh, 444 miles, which is run by Pennsylvania Railroad limited
express in 11 hours, with much better accommodations; price of ticket,
including Pullman car, $13.

Although luncheon baskets are generally to be had by telegraphing
aiead on long journeys, it was not necessary in this case, since over thirty
minutes was consumed shunting carriages and transferring luggage at
the dining station.

The city of Crewe bears the same relation to England that Altoona
does to the State of Pennsylvania, both being the mechanical head-
quarters of the most prominent railway in the region. Some idea of the
magnitude of the work carried on there may be gleamed from the fact
that [ saw under one roof £150,000 ($750,000) worth of locomotives that
had never turned a wheel.

Mr. Webb, the locomotive superintendent of the London and North-
western Kailway, who is in charge at Crewe, explained to me that they
found it cheaper to get their stock of one class of work up in a large
126 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

quantity ata time, and that the difference in cost more than made. up °
for the difference in the interest on the amount invested. The London
and Northwestern Railway Company have their rail mill here, and man-
ufacture spikes, chairs, and the steel cross-tie (of which a sample has
been sent us for the Museum collection, see Pl. 111) in large quan-
tities.

Since my return Mr. Webb has written me that the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company had ordered a mile of London and Northwestern
standard iron track, consisting of 80-pound bull-headed rail, wrought-
steel cross-tie, with chair, complete, for experimental purposes. It is
expected that this mile of track will be laid where the traffic is excep-
tionally heavy, and a comparison of its durability made with the Amer-
ican system.

The passenger carriage shop of the London and Northwestern Rail-
way, at Wolverton, is a most interesting place for an American to
visit.

While the English locomotive, of which we have shown a cui in PI.
Iv, is somewhat different from the American in appearance, the dif-
ference is not so marked as in the passenger cars or ‘‘ carriages,” as
they call them. (Pl. Vv.) We were particularly fortunate in our brief
stay in Wolverton in being able to visit the private carriage of the
Duke of Sutherland, and to inspect the royal train of five carriages,
which was being putin order for Queen Victoria’s annual spring jour-
ney to Scotland. The carriage which was constructed expressly for
Her Majesty’s private use, with its gilded furniture and pale blue satin
upholstery, is planned in marked contrast to what we are accustomed
to find in American special cars. But as the longest journey there is
generally made-in daylight, there is no necessity for extensive sleeping
compartments, and the luncheon supplied at nearly every station takes
the place of the dinner which we get on our dining cars. The wheels
of the carriages of the royal train conformed to the standard of the
London and Northwestern Railway, being composed of twelve seg-
ments of wood (teak), around which a steel tire is shrunk, a steel Itub
being used. A sample of these wheels, and a number of drawings show-
ing the construction of the three classes of day cars, and the sleepers
in use on this road have been promised me.

A great deal of attention has been given for several years to the sub-
ject of electric lighting of passenger carriages upon the English roads.
Two examples give a general idea of the successful experiments made.
Between Liverpool and Manchester a fast train is equipped with the
incandescent lamps, one in each compartment (and one additional for
emergency), the electricity being furnished by a dynamo on the tender
driven by steam from the locomotive—no storage battery being used.
I was informed that little trouble had been experienced in the manage-
ment of these lights, which had been in continuous use for many
months, the cost being low, the quality of the light considered.
PLATE IV.

Watkins

Report of National Museum, 1886.

—Z-ayr
ae ae NY Panag ts}
a re ==

Locomotive No. 274, “‘ PResiIDENT GARFIELD,’’ LONDON AND NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY OF ENGLAND, 1885.
SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. T27

On the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway a very ingenious
contrivance had been put on several trains. A dynamo in the guard’s
van, which is always attached to one end of the train, was driven by a
belt from the axle of one of the wheels. The overplus of the electricity
generated while the train is running being stored in secondary bat-
teries for use while the train is standing. This had proved a very satis-
factory system, and a company of wealthy capitalists had been tormed
to introduce this invention on a number of the other roads, with great
promise of success. All of the steam-sbip packet lines, crossing from
Ireland and France to England, had put the electric light upon their
best boats, and the Brush light is almost universally used upon the
wharves and by best roads at passenger and freight stations, and in
yards and other public places, notwithstanding that the price of gas
is a little more than half what it is in this country.

A drawing showing the arrangement of dynamo gearing, lamps, etc.,
on the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway—where, by the way,
I saw the only Pullman cars abroad, and they were brilliantly lighted
by electricity—has been secured for the Museum.

Upon a stone block at Darlington stands engine No. 1 of the Stock-
ton and Darlington Railway, built by Stephenson and placed in service
in 1825; the first locomotive in the world to be in continuous general
service upon a railway constructed for passenger and freight traffic.

A journey of 18 miles from Glasgow along the shores of the Clyde
brought me to Greenock. On the second floor of a stone house badly
out of repair, at the foot of William street, I stood, on the 19th of Feb-
ruary, 1886, in the room where James Watt was born, exactly one bun-
dred and fifty years and one month before, and a fussy old lady, who
appeared to be a self-appointed mistress of ceremonies, accepted a six-
pence with a courtesy for unlocking the doors, while the old vandal
who accompanied her pocketed a shilling, and cheerfully knocked a
brick out of the historic fire-place where he declared young James first
watched the steam rise from his mother’s kettle and wondered at its
force, and this legend was corroborated by others.

At Glasgow I enjoyed a trip down the Clyde and my visits to Napier’s
and Reid’s ship-yards were full of interest.

All of the principal large vessels under contract were to have the
new triple expansion engine.

After a night journey from London to Southampton via the London
and Southwestern Railway and a most unpleasant voyage across the
channel we landed at Havre, France. The journey from Hayse to Paris
was full of interest.

I was not favorably impressed with either the plan of construction
nor the condition of the French railways. The running time was slow,
the signals clumsy, and the train-men had the appearance of being
poorly paid and unhappy.

The plans of the early English engineers and railway constructors seem
128 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

to have been pretty generally followed. The people of Paris are de-
pendent upon steam appliances for their means of transit from one part
of the city to another; the small steamers that run up and down the
Seine, touching at the foot of each prominent street every few minutes,
being patronized much the same as the ’buses of London, or the tram
cars in our American cities.

Many freight barges are towed up this river, in which the current is
very Swift, in a novel manner; a chain with large links and several
miles long, lies on the bed of the stream; an odd-shaped boat with a
powerful engine drives a wheel above deck, which gears into the links of
this chain, thus hauling the tow of barges against the stream, and pro-
viding for the emergency of floating away in case the engine should
be disabled. Large quantities of wine from the outlying districts
through France are transported to the city in this manner.

Leaving Lyon station, Paris, at 9 p. m., in a wagon lit, we reached the
north end of the Mont Cenis Tunnel about 11 the nextmorning. Hight
and a half miles of darkness were traversed in thirty-two minutes, and
we had passed through what was ten yéars ago the longest tunnel in the
world and is now the second in length.

At Turin, we were transferred to a carriage (with the backs of alter-
nate seats facing each other) somewhat resembling American cars, ex-
cept the aisle was not in the center. Seats for three persons were on one
side of the aisle, and for one only on the other.

The Italian train-men and station agents perhaps receive less pay
than in any portion of Europe. Women act in latter capacity at many
of the smaller stations, as in France. The time made is very slow while
running and long stops are made at every station. The four-wheel cars
are poorly painted, and, except on fast express trains from Paris to
Rome, Naples, etc., they rode very rough.

The whistle of the steam-boat bids fair to drown the song of the
gondolier in Venice, as small steam-boats with shrill piping whistles run
up and down the Grand Canal at regular intervals, furnishing the Vene-
tians who are denied the pleasure of riding in a tram ear, another means
of rapid transit. Numbers of small steam barges may be seen on the
water-ways through Venice and on the bay carrying passengers to and
from Lido and other points.

Returning from Venice to Milan and journeying thence northward, we
reached the St. Gothard Railway at Chiasso, the first station in Switzer-
land over the Italian border, and during the journey of 232 kilometers
(143.7 miles), consuming eight hours, we were scarcely a moment out of
sight of an engineering feat that would have excited the wonder of the
world a half century ago. 5

In the limits of these 144 miles there are thirty-four tunnels, agere-
gating many miles in length. I had thought that, with the somewhat
intimate knowledge of railroads in the mountain and mining districts
of Pennsylvania, I was familiar with heavy curves and steep grades,
“PLSLI 918 STOOI[M 1910 OY, “Avo ULOLIBUTY oY) UT Sv
(a130q 10) YON.Y BUT peoLTT Suleq Jo pvoqsUl SofXV [VIPBA OAL SPOOYM AVI PUL PARMAOJ OL “STOO IYSIo SvY avd STU,

"G881 ‘ONVIONA JO AVMIIVY NYSLSSMHLYON GNV NOGNO7 “39v99N7
4YO4 LNAWLYVdINOD ONY ‘SYSONTSSVd SSVIO GYIHL ONV ‘GNOO3S ‘LSHI4 YO4 SDVINYVD YSONISSVd AVMTIVY

NYId TYNOIL99S

PLATE V.

ve ery | ee ey Cee |
NOILAVAZIZJWWNOILIDIS

: : a — 1 "
: ie i Ses
OOOO

|
LIU!
WL eat__JL__ es Let

Report of National Museum, 1886 —Watkins.

SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 129

but there is no comparison. The great taunnelis reached a few moments
after passing the station at Airolo, and for twenty-two and one-half
minutes of utter darkness we are passing through a little more than
94 miles—the longest tunnel in the world, and it is with a feeling of
relief that one sees daylight at Goeschenen at the northern end. I was
fortunate enough to obtain for our section a good photograph of each
of the entrances to this great tunnel, and what appears to be a very
accurate map, scale 1 to 100,000, showing the location of all the tunnels
on the road, and giving a fair idea of the contour of the country.

At Lucerne the St. Gothard Railway terminates, but the carriages run
through to Basle without change.

The railway from Basle to Strasburg is the best equipped road I
saw on the Continent, the second-class compartment in the carriages,
constructed on the English plan, being upholstered in a bright durabie
color, and as comfortable as many first-class carriages in England; quite
a relief after many days of somber blue-black on the other roads. On
this railway the track and road-bed are well taken care of, and fast time
is made.

The German locomotives appeared to be more clumsy or old fash-
ioned any than we had seen, but their performance seemed very satisfac-
tory.

The Belgian railways are well built and equipped; fast time is made
and the travel appears heavier than elsewhere on the Continent. The
locomotives on the road from Brussels to Antwerp seemed better cal-
culated for the work than on the German roads. Shorter time was
spent at stations everywhere in Belgium and more dispatch given to
arriving and departing trains than elsewhere.

At various points on the Continent experimeuts are being made with
glass, iron, and steel cross-ties for railways of heavy traffic, and I doubt
if the tourist a few years hence will travel many miles over wooden
sleepers.

EUROPEAN RAILWAY MUSEUMS.

South Kensington Museum.—To the student of the history of steam
and steam transportation the South Kensington (Patent) Museum con-
tains the most valuable and instructive collection of objects abroad.

The Englishman of to-day, justly proud of the inventive genius of the
last gen#ration, is zealous to perpetuate the history of the results of the
life work of Newcomen, Savery, Smeaton, Watt, Murdoch, Trevithick,
George and Robert Stephenson, and Symington.

In our own country, however, with the exception of Fulton, no Amer-
ican inventor of steam appliances has received the meed of praise due
him, and yet no nation in the world owes so much to locomotive and
steam-ship inventors and railway constructors as our own.

Owing to the limited area of Great Britain, however, which, exclusive
of Ireland, is a trifle less than the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio, the

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 9

130 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

record of invention has been easily kept before the popular eye. In this
old country, advanced in civilization and blessed with wealth, scien-
tific societies and technical journals have kept the results of the labors
of master minds constantly before the intelligent public, and the suc-
cess of the lucky inventor has speedily brought him fame and fortune.
Outside the circle of military and naval heroes no names are dearer to
the British heart than Watt and the Stephensons (George and Robert),
and now that a memorial window to poor Trevithick is to be placed in
Westminster this illustrious trio will become a quartette, much to the
gratification of the impartial student of the history of the early loco-
motive who does not permit the glamour of success to blind his vision
to true merit.

Original stationary engines built under the personal supervision of
James Watt are in this collection, together with many of the models
which he and his foreman (Murdoch) made to illustrate the patents
which he obtained from the English Government.

Original drawings made by Trevithick from which his high-pressure
stationary and locomotive engines were constructed as early as 1802
are framed and hanging on the walls, while several of his earliest boil-
ers are to be found upon the museum floor.

A large portion of the machinery of the steam- Boat Comet, the first
English steam-boat commercially successful (built in 1812), which is as
much reverenced in Great Britain as is Fulton’s Clermont in America,
is also carefully preserved.

Upon presenting my credentials to Sir Phillip Cunliffe Owen, the
director of the South Kensington Museum, I was most courteously re-
ceived, and as he was fully occupied (February, 1886) in organizing the
plans for the Colonial Exhibition, I was referred to R. Thompson, esq.,
the assistant director, who showed me every attention, and led me at
once to the ‘‘Rocket,” which he said every American railroad man
wanted to see. J must confess to a feeling of awe when I placed my
hand on the pony of 1829, which has been gradually bred up in size and
strength to the powerful iron horse in a half century ; nor could I help
a feeling of regret that the time was not ripe for the development of
the Trevithick breed, which made fair speed and did fair service a quar-
ter of a century before Stephenson’s successful racer. Next to the
“ Rocket” stood the ‘“Sanspareil,” the victor and the vanquished in
the great Rain hill contest of 1829, which stimulated faith in the steam
locomotive that had been creeping slowly along for twenty-five years
before, giving it vigor and strength to begin a new life of the greatest
usefulness. The scope of this report will not permit of an extended
list of the interesting and instructive relies, drawings, and models which
make this the Mecea of all historians of the stationary and locomotive
steam-engine.

Hunterian Museum at the University of Glasgow—The Newcomen
model.—Nearly every one interested in the story of steam will remember
SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. bow

that in the winter of 1763 and 1764 James Watt, who was then twenty-
seven years old, and was a mathematical instrument maker and general
mechanician for this University, became interested in steam through a
toy model of Neweomen’s engine, which had been placed in his hands
for repairs. This period is described by an eminent writer as “the era
of all other the most eventful in the history of the steam-engine.” *

This model is still preserved in the Hunterian Museum, connected
with the University, and the knowledge of the fact that I have held it
in my hands and moved the valves that Watt repaired will always be
held as the most precious remembrance of my tour abroad.

It is rather a curious coincidence that the walls of the same institu-
tion that witnessed Watt’s successful experiments with steam a century
and a quarter ago should now contain the work-shop and laboratory of
one of the most distinguished electricians of the age, who has labored so
successfully in investigating and utilizing the new power which bids
fair to supersede the inventions which immortalized that great inventor.

WATT’S MONUMEN?Y.

A few feet from the Newcomen model stands a white marble statue
of the great inventor in a sitting posture, sculptured by Chantrey in 1525.
The inscription on the pedestal reads—

This Statue of
JAMES WATT,

Fellow of the Royal Societies
of London and Edinburgh,
and Member of the Institute of France,
is presented by his son
to the University of Glasgow
in gratitude for the encouragement
afforded by its Professors
to the Scientific pursuits
of his father’s early life.

In Greenock, Scotland, is a small museum which contains a number
of letters written by Wattin regard to his inventions, a few models and
relies, besides a statue by Chantrey, similar to the one at the Hunterian
Museum at Glasgow, and a library containing a number of valuable
books.

The curator has kindly promised to send the National Museum a
small map of the town, showing the location of Watt’s birthplace, and
a photograph of the house in which he first saw the light.

Kelvin Grove Museum.—In the Kelvin Grove Museum, Glasgow, is a
most interesting pyramid of models of the hulls of the early steam-
boats: the Vulcan (first iron boat), 1816; the Comet (first successful

*The Steam-engine and its Inventors, by Robert L. Galloway, page 129,
SD, REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

English steam-boat), 1812; and the Charlotie Dundas (first successful
experimental boat), 1502.

Standing on a pedestal is a cylinder from the first engine put in the
Comet. Mr. Miller, secretary of the Scottish Institute of Engineers and
Ship-builders, tells me that this was taken out and replaced by another
cylinder, and after having been used for some time by an old lady for a
chimney top, was presented by her to the Museum as soon as she learned
of its historic value. Upon the pedestal is placed a ‘ Record of Steam
Navigation in the Clyde” and upon the walls hang several photographs
of the machinery of the Comet, with the inventor, Henry Bell, standing
beside it. Mr. James Paton, Superintendent of the Museum, presented
me with faec-similes of promissory notes given by Henry Bell to Dayid
Napier, 1812, in payment for the boiler of the Comet, the first steamer
that carried passengers in Europe.

Also, a fac-simile of certificate from Admiral Sir Richard Bickerton,
of His Majesty’s navy, and the captains of His Majesty’s ships Dragon
and Superb, dated July 4, 1802, in regard to Mr. Shorter’s propeller, by
the use of which one ship in a calm “hove away-at the rate of 1 &
a 4 miles per hour, having 8 hands at the capstan.”

The original documents are the property of Napier Brothers, ship-
builders on the Clyde, and are loaned by them to the Kelvin Grove Mu-
seum, Glasgow, for exhibition. A model of a propeller worked in this
manner is also shown.

Paris and its Museums.—There are three thoughts connected with
Paris that are of great interest to the student of the story of steam.

(1) In one section of the Conservatoire des Artes et Metiers stands a
marble statue of Papin, to whose investigations I believe the invention
of the steam piston and cylinder is largely due—holding a steam eylin-
der over a flame; the apparatus having been modeled from the draw-
ings of the one originally constructed by him.

(2) Near by it stands Cugnot’s steam road locomotive of 1770, the
oldest steam-locomotive in the world.

(3) The historical spot on the banks of the Seine, which I visited, and
where Fulton made his experiments, 1801, 1802, and 1803, with steam
appliances, both for towing boats and for submarine work against the
wooden British sailing ships that were operating against Napoleon in
these eventful years. In 1803 or 1804 Napoleon had become much inter-
ested in Fulton’s experiments with steam. They had an interview, and
Fulton’s inventions were referred to the French minister of the marine for
investigation. The English naval authorities, hearing of this, became
greatly alarmed, for Napoleon, who then had a large force of men massed
at Bologne, had it so arranged that if he could get the special barges
which he had built for the purpose six hours ahead of the British in
their journey across the channel he could march: his army to London
without serious opposition. But thus early in the history of steam nav-
igation the value of the marine evgine of the fature was appreciated by
SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPURTATION. t33

the nation which was destined afterwards to have the greatest steam
navy in the world, and a handsome fee was paid I*ulton to return to
England, where he had alterations and additions made by Bolton and
Watt, at Soho, to one of their own engines, which was exported to
America and placed afterwards in the Clermont, the lucky boat which
gave Fulton fame and fortune. Thus we find that this celebrated in-
ventor, who designed what lives in history as the first suecessfal steam-
boat im the world, pursued his investigations in France, completed his
engine in England, and won his laurels in America.

There is little else in the French museums, either in the Conserva-
toire or the naval section of the Louvre, of interest to the section of
steam transportation.

Naval Museum, Venice.—This museum is fall of the most interesting
models and relics, some of them of great age, but I could find nothing
to even suggest that the subjects of the Queen of the Sea had any
ideas in regard to paddle-wheel or propeller navigation by steam or
otherwise prior to this century. In Rome is to be seen a marine paint-
ing several centuries old representing oxen walking around a circle on
the deck of a vessel driving a windlass geared to a paddle-wheel in the
stern of the boat—a somewhat similar arrangement to the stern-wheel
boats used for shoal navigation on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.
In another painting two or three centuries old a sea-nymph sits float-
ing in a shell, with a paddle-wheel apparently revolving on one side.
It would seem, however, that the gilded floating palace, in which the
Doges performed the ceremony of wedding the sea each year, and
which was driven by the galley slave chained to his oar, was the most
advanced stage of marine architecture to which the Venetians—once
rulers of the sea—attained, until after the introduction of steam.

PETITION TO CONGRESS.

A description of the section, which was published in the Washing-
ton Star, January 16, 1886, having been widely circulated during my
absence abroad, I found upon my return that over thirteen hundred
gentlemen connected with railroads in all sections of the United States
had petitioned Congress for an appropriation to establish a section in
the National Museum devoted to the history of the railroad and steam-
boat. Neither at this session, nor during the next, was this request
complied with, and I have been compelled to do what little has been
done since my return, with my private means, during brief periods of
intermission from railway duties; short leaves of absence having been
granted through the kindness of the general manager of the Pennsyl-
vania Railroad Company, in whose service I have been employed for
nearly fifteen years consecutively.

iA copy of the petition to Congress, with the names of the more prom-

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

iment of the signers, together with the resolutions passed by the Frank-

lin Institute of Philadelphia, is to be found below :

To the Congress of the United States :

The undersigned, desirous of perpetuating the history of the birth and development
of steam transportation (by steam-boat and railway) inAmerica, respectfully petition ®
your honorable body to appropriate such a sum of money as may be deemed neces-
sary to carry out the plans recently adopted for the organization of the Section of
Steam Transportation in the U. 8. National Museum ; said sum to be expended under
supervision of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and

Director of the U. S. National Museum.

Alabama Great Southern Railroad: |
Charles Schiff, vice-president.

Allegheny Vailey Railroad:

David McCargo, general supt.
T. R. Robinson, treasurer.

Kk. H. Utley, G. F. and P. agent.
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad:
H.C. Nutt, president.

H. W. Gardiner, secretary.
D. L. Gallup, auditor.
Atlantic and West Point and
Alabama Railroad:
L. P. Grant, president.
Cecil Gabbett, general manager.
N. M. Abbett, secretary and treasurer.

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fé Railroad: |
P. F. Barr, superintendent.

Charles Wincheck, general foreman.
Edward Flockett, master mechanic.
R. H. Emerson, master mechanic.

H. V. Farries, master mechanic.

Baltimore and Delaware Bay Railroad:
J. 1°. Bingham, president.

Fred Gerker, general manager.

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad :

Robert Garrett, president.

F. H. Britton, superintendent.

B. F. Luther, master mechanic.

E. 'F. Affleck, division freight agent.

Buftalo, New York and Philadelphia :

G. Clinton Gardiner, president.
C.H. Allen, vice-president.
G.S. Gatchell, gen. supt.
John Dougherty, treasurer.
KR. D. McCreary, engineer.

3oston, Hoosac Tunnel and Western :
A. Kountze, president.

Buttalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh:
Walston H. Brown, president.
William I. Hayt, chief engineer.
George EK. Merchant, gen. mangr.

Western

I. 5. Emery, general freight agent.
Boston and Providence Railroad:

Henry A. Whitney, president.

A, A. Folsom, superintendent,

Bangor and Portland Railroad :
C. Miller, president.
George W. Mackey, secretary.
Ii. G. Wire, chief engineer.
Charles N, Miller, G. F. and P. A.
soston and Bangor Steam-ship Co. :
W.H. Hill, jr., general manager.
3urlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern
Railroad :
C. J. Ives, president.
Robert Williams, superintendent.
8.8. Dorwart, secretary.
H. F. White, chief engineer.
Cape Fear and Yadkin Valley Railroad:
Julius A. Gray, president.
Chicago, Burlington and Northern R. R:
Charles C. Upham, chief engineer.
J. M. Forbes, treasurer.
Cleveland and Canton Railroad :
J. W. Wardwell, gen. supt.
Albert Rokusck, G. F. and P. A.
Cincinnati and Eastern Railroad:
B. F. Coats, P. and R.
H. E. Sawyer, S. T.
T. D. Rhodes, T. and G. P. A.
W.L. King, chief engineer.
J.C. Horner, Supt. M. P.
Chicago and Alton Railroad :
J. H. Parsons, superintendent.
C. A. Smith, supt. water-works.
J. H. Finney, asst. superintendent.
Jacob Johann, master mechanic.
C. H. Mead, foreman car-shops.
G. D. Brooke, general foreman.
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy R. Rh. :
Ilenry B. Stone, general manager.
J. O. Bosler, general superintendent.
George C. Smith, chief engineer.
I’. C. Rice, superintendent.
C. N. Rosseguin, superintendent.
I, Kk. Walker, engineer.
I’. J. Allen, engineer.
Rh. J. McClure, construction engineer.
Thomas Gordon, division engineer.
J.O, Thorne, brg. and bldg. supt.
SECTION OF

Chicago, Burlington and Quiney R. k.—
Continued
KE. A. Gunnell, L. and D. agent.
Wm. Irving, gen’] purchasing agent.
R. W. Colville, master mechanic.
Cleveland, Akron and Columbus Ry. :
J. Monserrat, president.
k. French, chief engineer.
hk. G. Sharpe, supt. transportation.
KE. C. Jones, G., F., and P. agent.
Chicago and Eastern Illinois Raiiroad :
LD. R. Patterson, purchasing agent.
O. S. Lyford,
Chicago, Burlington and Northern R. R.:
George B. Harris, general manager.
}. C. Upham, chief engineer.
A. B. Hinckley, auditor.
Columbus and Cincinnati Midland R. kh. :
S. P. Peabody, gen’l superintendent.
Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and
Indianapolis Railway :
N. H. Devereux, president.
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul R. R.:
D. J. Witemore, chief engineer.
J. W. Lowry, gen’! master mechanic.
KE. Fairbairn, master mechanic.
A. E. Aleott, general foreman.

STEAM TRANSPORTATION.

C. King, general foreman.
Central lowa Railroad :
William Hanna, director.

D. V. Phelps, ass’t superintendent.
Cincinnati and Muskingum Valley R. Kk. :
F. G. Darlington, superintendent.

Cincinnati Southern Railway :
John Carlisle, trustee.
Chicago and Northwestern Railway :
J.E. Blunt, chief engineer.
Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton R. R.:
C.C. Waite, vice-president.
J. Ramsey, chief engineer.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacifie Ry. :
A. Kimball, viee-president.
C.L. Ewing, claim agent.
W. HH. Robinson.
George F. Walker, superintendent.
Cincinnati, Wabash and Michigan R. R.:
Norman Berkley, general manager,
O. W. Lamport, superintendent.
S. B. Ginker, master mechanic.
Cineinnati, Indianapolis, St. Louis and
Chicago Railway :
M. E. Ingall, president.
Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad :
Jobn Thomas, superintendent,
R.S. Smith, assistant manager.

G. A. Ingersoll, sec’y and treasurer,

Cineinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pa-
cific Railway :
rank S$. Boud, president.
R. Carroll, general superintendent.
G. B. Nicholson, chief engineer.

G. Bousearen, construction engineer.
James Mechan, supt. M. P. and M.
Columbus, Hocking Valley and Toledo

Railway:

M. M. Green, president.

Win. Greene, second vice-president.

William N. Cott, treasurer.

W, Hi. Jennings, engineer.

I’. B. Sheldon, engineer.

J.G. Hutchins, master mechanic.

William A. Miles, general freight ag’t.
Chicago and West Michigan Railroad :

J.K. V. Agnew, gen’! superintendent.

J. H. Carpenter, G. F. and P. A.
Delaware, Lackawanaand Western R. R.:

Samuel Sloan, president.
Dayton and Ireton Railroad:

James M. Prendergast, president.
Delaware and Bound Brook Railroad :

J. H. Stevenson, secretary and treas.
Detroit, Grand Haven and Milwankeo

Ry. and Chicago and Grand Trunk Ky. :

W. J. Spicer, general manager.

J. W. Fortune, ass. gen’l manager.

Geo. Masson, chief of engineers.

A. B. Atwater, superintendent.

W. J. Morgan, superintendent.

J. H. Minor, treasurer.

H. Roberts, mech. supt.

John Main, asst. G. F. agent.

J. E. Quick, gen’l baggage agent.

J. Loriner, gen’] storekeeper.
Duluth and Iron Range R. R.:

C. Tower, president.

L. P. Beck, secretary.

A. H. Viele, auditor.

R. H. Lee, chief engineer and supt.

John Mallman, chief explorer,
Detroit, Lansing and Northern R. R.:

J. B. Mulliken, general manager.

I’, M. Fish, general superintendent.

J. J. MeVene, chief engineer.

John Doyle, general road-master.

B. F. Calvin, general road-master.

G. C. Watrous, superintendent M.P.

W. A. Carpenter, G. F. and P. agent.

G. W. Light, assistant road-master.

R. Rustine, assistant road-master.

R. M. Tiffany, foreman car dept.

A. P. Sweet, master painter.

T. S. Newton, gen’l rg. agent.
136

1 > D

East Tennessee, Virginia and Ga. R.
J. C. Andrews, gen’ sth. agt.
F. R. Hunger, superintendent.

Elmira, Cortland and Northern R. R.:
A. A. McLeod, general manager.

> ars
dee

East Tennessee and Western North Caro- |

lina R. R. :
A. Pardee, jr., president.
J. G. Wise, secretary and treasurer.

I’t W., Cincinnati and Louisville R. R. :
W. W. Worthington, gen’l supt.
Charles Hoffman, auditor.

R. F. Kinnaird, G. F. agent.

Florida Sonthern Railway:

James D, Hallston, superintendent.
Sherman Conent, gen’l manager.

Flint and Pere Marquette R. R.:

H. C. Potter, V. P. and gen’l manger.
Sanford Keeler, superintendent.
William Bb. Sears, chief engineer.
W. I. Potter, assistant supt.

G. M. Brown, general road-master.
H. M. Perry, M. C. builder.

Thomas J. Matswell, M. M.

Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fé Railway:
M. W. Joyce, general agent.
Thomas M. Jackson, land agent.
W. J. Sherman, engineer.

Henderson Bridge Company :

S. 8. Eastwood, secretary.
Houston and Texas Central:
A. Ti. Swanson, general manager.
G. A. Quinlan, engr. and supt.
EK. W. Cave, treasurer.
Hanover Junction and Gettysburg Rail-
road:
A. W. Eichelberger, president.
R. M. Wirt, seeretary and treasurer.
Indianapolis, Decatur and Springfield
Railroad:
H. B. Hammond, receiver.
G. W. Bender, superintendent.

Indianapolis and St. Lonis Railway:

T. W. Burroughs, superintendent.

W. P. Orland, assistant M. M.
Tllinois Central Railroad :

J. C. Clarke, president.

R. 8. Charles, president.

C. M. Sheafe, superintendent.

J. G. Morey, general agent.

D. R. Morey, general freight agent.

Jno. M. Turner, division supt.

J. W. Colman, A. G. P. agent.

Win. Murray, gen’] Sth. P. agent.

8. B. McConnico, general agent.

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Kansas City, Fort Seott and Gulf R. R.:
G. i. Nettleton, general manager.
Norman Jones, general agent.

Lake Erie and Western Railroad:

C. H. Perry, chief engineer.

D. G. Hill, general superintendent.
W.5S. Weed, general freight agent.
H. J. Casteter, auditor.

A. D. Thomas, cashier.

G.W. Smith, G. P. agent.

Lake Shore and Michigan Southern R. R.:

Maitland Porter, general supt.

P. F. Wright, general supt.

G. W. Steven, supt. M. P.

Geo. Gallaway, foreman car shops.

P. J. Clansy, foreman ear shops.

J. S$. Graham, master mechanic.

L. C. Robson, M. C. builder.

John Kirby, general M. C.

Norman Totten, L. and C. dept.

L. C. Higgins, purchasing agent.
Lehigh Valley Railroad:

i. B. Wilbur, president.

Charles Hartshorn, vice-president.

J.R. Fanshawe, secretary.

William Alderson, treasurer.

A. W.Stedman, chief engineer.

John Taylor, general manager.

J. H. Weekman, general freight agent.

E. B. Byington, gen. passenger agent.

Louisville and Nashville Railway :

A. M. Quarrier, second vice-president.
L. R. Knott, assistant to president.
R. Wells, assistant to president.

C.R. Barnhardt, supt. transportation.
C. W. Corringe, general agent.

F. B. Robson, road master.

G. W. Hinman, supt. brgs. and bldgs.
L. Howell, superintendent.

H. W. Bruce, attorney.

Theo. Welch, general freight agent.
J.C. Loomis, master trains.

James Geddes, superintendent.

C. O. Parker, superintendent.

J.T. Harrahan, general manager.

R. K. Warren, secretary.

Cushman Quarrier, comptroller.

W. W. Tompson, treasurer.

Lyttleton Cooke, attorney.

F. M. Fonda, assist. superintendent.

Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Ry.:
W.N. Marshall, master transp.

J.J. Casey, m, c. builder.
Rt. F. Reynolds, commercial agent.
E. D. Anderson, master mechanic.
SECTION OF

Michigan Central Railroad:

Benj. Douglass, engineer bridges.

J.D. Hawks, chief engineer.

A. Torrey, assistant engineer,

I. P. Morris, assistant engineer.

W. 3B. Stillson, assistant engineer.

A. G. Dailey, superintendent. transp.
Mexican National Railway:

‘TA. Merriam, gen. superintendent,

Kk. A. Handy, engineer.

J.M. Winslow, master mechanic.
Minnesota and Northwestern Raijroad :

J.C. Fernstorm, chief engineer.

Frank Skipwith, asst. chief engineer.

Chr. Nasten, assistant engineer.

W. J. Wilgus, assistant engineer.
Milwaukee and Northern Railroad :

Jaines C, Spencer, vice-president.

C.F. Fulton, general superintendent.
Milwaukee, Lake Shore and Western Ry. :

J. Donahue, superintendent.
Missouri Pacific Railway :

H. M. Hoxie, vice-president.

Wm. Kerrigan, gen. superintendent.

D. Brocke, supt. transportation.
Maryland Steam-boat Company :

H. B. Ensign, president.

James I. Byrd, secretary.
Mexican Central Railway :

I’, W. Johnston, sup’t M. P. and M.

New York Central & Hudson River R. R.:

Chauncey M. Depew, president.
Horace J. Hayden, vice-president.

J.M. Tancey, general superintendent.
Theodore Voorhees, ass’t gen’l sup’t. |

C. M. Bissell, superintendent.

New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R.:

C. 8. Davidson, superintendent.
Otis C. Lackey, master mechanic.
New York and New England R. R.:
Elliot Holbrook, superintendent.
L. W. Palmer, superintendent.
J.S. Henny, superintendent M. P.

New York, Chicago and Saint Louis R. It:

D. W. Caldwell, receiver.
G. H. Spriggs, G. F. and P. A.

New York, Lake Erie and Western R. R.:

N. J. Murphy, superintendent.

New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio k. R.:

N. D. Woode, superintendent.
Aug. Mordecai, engineer.
Northern Central Railway :

Robert Neilson, gen’l superintendent.

A. C. Hippy, engineer M. W.
Ki. D. Nelson, superintendent M. P.
S. W. White, secretary.

STEAM TRANSPORTATION.

137

New York, Philadelphia & Norfolic R.R.:
William A. Patton, vice-president.
William Cariss, secretary and auditor.
R. B. Cooke, G. B. agent.

H. D. Dunne, superintendent.

G. W. Russell, master mechanic.
Newport News & Mississippi Valley R. Q.:
R. W. Briggs, sup’t M. P.and M.
John Vitzgerald, master mechanic.

W.E. Ramsey, general foreman.
D.S. Weaver, general foreman,

New Orleans and Vicksburg Packet Co. :
J. Janney, general agent.

Norfolk and Western Railroad :

I’. J. Kimball, president.
W. P. Cosgrove, superintendent.

New Orleans and Northwestern R. hk. :
John Glynn, jr., general agent.

New York, Ontario and Western Ry. :
Thomas P. Fowler, president.

J. iE. Childs, general manager.
H. Anderson, G. F.and P. A.
Ki. Canfield, superintendent,
Ii. Minshall, master mechanic.

New York, Providence and Boston R. R.
G. HH. Griggs, master mechanic.

North Pennsylvania Railroad :

}. A. Comly, president.

New Haven and Northampton Railroad:
S. B. Opdyke, jr., superintendent.

Northern Pacific Railway :

T. F. Okes, V. P. and genl. manager.

J.M. Hannaford, G. F. Agent.

C.S. Fee, general passenger agent.

A. Anderson, chief engineer.

I’. Green, superintendent.

J. Blickensderfer, engineer.

PF. W. Gilbert, supt. R. M. division.

W.A. Gaslock, master mechanic.
New Orleans Pacific Railroad :

E. B. Wheelock, president.

Robert Strong, secretary.
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad:

W. W. Peabody, president.

C. M. Stanton, asst. superintendent.

W.B. Ruggles, chief engineer.

W. J. Robinson, genl. baggage agent.

Percy Werner, general counsel.
Old Colony Railroad :

Charles IF’. Schoate, president.

C. L. Lovering, director,

R. W. Turner, director.

C. N. Bliso, director.

John J. Russell, director.

G. A. Gardener, director.

John S. Braghn, director.
138

Old Colony Railroad—Continued.
Thomas Dunn, director.
Thomas J. Borden, director.
Oregon and California Railroad:
R. Woelden, reer. and genl. manager.
J. Brandt, general superintendent.
G. H. Andrews, second v. president.
KE. P. Rogers,C. P. and P. agent.
Oceanic Steam-ship Company :
J. D. Spreckels & Bro., general agts.
Oregon Railway and Navigation Co. :

Goodall, Perkins & Co., general
agents.

Pacific Improvement Company :
¥. 8. Douty, secretary.
Pacific Coast Railway :
J. M. Filmore, manager.
Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore
Railroad :
Isaac Hinekley, president.
J.M. Mills, superintendent.
A. Feldpauche, engineer.
L. M. Allibone, assistant engincer.
Philadelphia and Erie Railroad -
Thomas A. Roberts, superintendent.
KE. B. Westfall, superintendent.
Joseph R. Davis, assistant engineer.
D. H. Lovell, assistant engineer.
Isaiah Paxon, master mechanic.
W. L. Holman, master mechanic.
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad :
H. K. Nichols, chief engineer.
W. Hunter, assistant engineer.
E. F. Smith, chief assistant engineer.
J. V. Smith, prest. E. Penn. Div.
O. M. Weand, engineer of canals.
George Eltz, superintendent trans.
G. A. Shaffer, general baggage agent.
J. Lowrie Bell, gen. traf. manager.
James Calhoun, gen, freight agent.
Peoria, Decatur and Evansville Railroad :
G. L. Bradbury, vice-president.
Rk. A. Bunker, treasurer.
H. C. Parker, traffic manager.
Providence and Worcester Railroad :
James Callery, president.
H. D. Campbell, sect’y and treasurer.
C.8. Wight, general freight agent.
J. Morton Hall, purchasing agent.
W.M. Flahaven, master mechanic.
Joseph Johnson, superintendent.
J. L. Kirk, auditor.
C. H. Bassett, gen. passenger agent.
J. H. Agnew, general foreman shops.
M. L. Cromlish, act’g gen. fr’t agent.

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Pennsylvania Company :
T. D. Mesler, vic2-pres’t and comp.
J. M. Kimball, superintendent.
G. S. Morris, superintendent.
Charles L. Cole, A. G. F. agent.
H. W. Byers, road-master.
Pennsylvania Railroad :
G. B. Roberts, president.
Frank Thomson, 2d vice president.
N. D. DuBarry, 3d vice president.
John P. Green, 4th vice president.
John C. Sims, jr., secretary.
John D. Taylor, treasurer.
Charles E. Pugh, general manager.
T. N. Ely, genl. supt. M. P.
Alexander M. Fox, director.
Henry D. Welsh, director.
Hl. H. Houston, director.
John P. Wetherill, director.
N. Parker Shortridge, director.
Wistar Morris, director.
J. T. Richards, asst. chief engineer.
R. E. Pettit, general superintendent,
I’. Wolcott Jackson, general supt.
Jos. Crawford, superintendent.
W.N. Bannard, superintendent.
Frank Ellmaker, superintendent.
O. FE. MeClellan, superintendent.
A. P. Kirkland, superintendent.
J. B. Hutchinson, superintendent.
Wilson Brown, superintendent.
Alfred Walter, superintendent.
J. A. Anderson, supt. relief dept.
Frank Sheppard, supt. M. P.
H.S. Hayward, supt. M. P.
S. M. Prevost, general supt. trans.
J. R. Wood, general passenger agent.
G. W. Boyd, asst. gen, pass. agent.
L. P. Farmer, N. E. pass. agent.
Enoch Lewis, purchasing agent.
M. P. Sargent, asst. genl. pure. agent.
I. J. McWade, general baggage agent.
R. W. Downing, comptroller.
James Reed, superintendent.
M. Riebenack, assistant comptroller.
O. J. Geer, general agent.
C. 8. Worts, road foreman engineers.
Joseph U. Crawford, chief engineer.
Samuel W. Latta, chief medical exr.
M. W. Thomson, engr. mach, works.
W.M. Phillips, superintendent.
kk. F. Brooks, engr. maintenance of
way.
Richmond and Danville Railroad :
}’. W. Huidekoper, vice-president,
SECTION OF

Richmond, Fredericksburgh and Potomac
Railroad :
Jos. P. Briton, president.
E. T. D. Myers, genl. superintendent.
J. B. Winston, treasurer.

Richmond and Alleghany Railroad :
Decatur Axtell, receiver and manr.
KE. R. Leland, secretary.

Rome, Watertown and Ogedensburgh Rh. R.:
H. W. Britton, general manager.
W.W. Currin, supt. transp.

T. M. Petty, general baggage agent.
F. R. Becker, chief engineer.

G. H. Hazleton, superintendent.

G. C. Gridley, A. G. P. agent.

T. H. Austin, tax agent.

C. L. Martin, auditor.

E. M. Moore, general freight agent.
H. A. Smith, road-master.

Saint Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Rh. R.:
W. Bayard Cutting, president.

G. W. Parker, V. pres. and gen. man.

Saint Louis and San Francisco Railway :
D. W. Nichols, general supt.

James Dunn, chief engineer.

Wm. A. Thomas, division supt.’
Saint Paul, Minneapolisand Manitoba Ry:
KE. B. McKennan, asst. gen. supt.

C. H. Jenks, superintendent.
A. Githens, superintendent.
Elmer L. White, secretary.
South Florida Railroad:
J. E. Ingraham, president.
F. H. Rand, general superintendent.
Rk. R. Swoope, superintendent.
Wilbur McCoy, auditor.

Saint Louisand New Orleans Anchor Line:
J. B. Woods, general agent.

Shenango and Allegheny Railroad :
J.T. Blair, president.

P. E. MeCray, auditor.

Seaboard Air Line Railroad :

John C. Winder, general manager.

Steam Packet Co.; Seaboard and Roa-

noke Railroad; Raleigh and Gaston
Railroad; Raleigh and Augusta Air
Line; Carolina Central Railroad Co,
William M. Robinson, president.
Southern Transportation Co.:
A.M. Calliday, general agent.
Star Union Line:
John H. Moriarity, agent.

Saint Louis, Fort Scott and Wichita R. R.
J. W. Miller, vice-president.

J. H. Richards, general attorney.
J. W. Dowland, secretary.

STEAM TRANSPORTATION.

|

|

139

Saimt Paul and Duluth Railroad :
W. H. Rawn, vice-president.
Shenandoah Valley Railroad: ,
G. R. W. Armes, treasurer.
Southern Pacific Railroad :
A. C. Hutchinson, general manager.
A. N. Towne, general manager.
I. Kruttschnitt, assistant manager.
J. H. Willenth, secretary.
J. A. Fillmore, gen’l superintendent.
William Hood, chief engineer.
R. H. Crawford, cont. freight agent.
K. W. Haw, A. G. F. A.
William H. Mills, land agent.
J. G. Schreiver, traffic manager.
N. B. Kellogg, assistant road-master
W.G. Curtiss, superintendent track.
William T. Lambell, engineer.
J. R. Wilkinston, insp. engineer.
E. H. Miller, jr., secretary.
J.C. Stubbs, gengpal traffic manager.
Michael Deering, assistant engineer.
R. H. Pratt, ass’t gen’] sup’t.
Richard Gray, general freight agent.
Jerome Madden, land agent.
C. J. Wilder, freight auditor.
E. C. Wright, general auditor.
Texas and Pacific Railway:
L. A. Shelden, receiver.
Kugene H. Hinton, comm’! agent.

Texas and Saint Louis Railway:
S. W. Fordyce, receiver.
H. G. Arlis, comptroller.
S. B. Fish, agent for receiver.
H. A. Young, chief engineer.
Ulster and Delaware Railroad :
J. H. Jones, general superintendent.
Union Switch and Signal Company:
C. H. Jackson, president.
Union Pacific Railway :
C. F. Adams, jr., president.
S. T. Smith, general superintendent.
J. Blinchensderfer, chief engineer.
W. W. Fagan, superintendent.
O. H. Dorrance, superintendent.
J. O. Brinkeroff, superintendent.
L. H. Kortz, sup’t telegraph
Erastus Young, auditor.
J. A. Monroe, general freight agent.
Thomas L. Kimball, gen. traffic man’r.
C. S. Stebbins, general traffic agent.
J. W. Morse, gen. passenger agent.

: | Ulster and North Carolina Railroad :

A. B. Andrews, president.
Wallkill Valley Railroad :
G. M. Graves, superintendent,
140

Westinghouse Air-Brake Company :

Wheeling and Lake Erie:
C. A. Wilson, chief engineer.
Joseph M. Hall, gen’l passenger ag’t.
A. G. Brown, general freight agent.
A. H. Thorpe, cashier.
W. R. Woodford, purchasing agent.
Otto Swartz, assistant chief engineer.
M. D. Woodford, receiver.
8. H. Ayers, secretary.
West Jersey Railroad :
R. Stretch, general express agent.
Western Maryland Railroad:
J. M. Hood, president.
John 8. Harden, secretary.
B. H. Griswold, gen. fr’t and pas. ag’ t.
Wilmington and Northern Railroad :
H. A. Du Pont, president.
West Shore Railroad :
J.D. Layng, renal manager.
C. W. Bradley, general sup’t.
D. B. McCoy, superintendent.
J.P. Bradfield, superintendent.
Western Transit Company :
8. D. Caldwell, general manager.

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

| Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Raitway :
George Westinghouse, jr., president, |

Thomas Anderson, general foreman.
k. A. Houghton, road-master.
George F. Bidwell, assistant sup’t.
A. B. Adams, road-master.
F. Sullivan, road-master.
G. W. Stevens, superintendent.
W. V. Stuart, attorney.
J. S. Goodrich, master transporta-
tion.
Zanesviile and Ohio Railroad :
James Buckingham, president.
Edw. A. Green, chief engineer.
Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburgh R. R.:
C. B. Taylor, superintendent.
Leroy Kells, master mechanic.
William Stewart, gen’l freight ag’t.
Robert Curtis, master mechanic.
Sdw. B. Wall, superintendent.
Charles LB. Street, master mechanic.
William Swanston, master mechanic.
W. W. Reynolds, master mechanie.
Woodruff Sleeping-Car Company :
John C. Paul, general manager.
Pittsburgh Locomotive Works:
I’. G. Dickson, president.

At the stated meeting of the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia, held
Wednesday, June 16, 1886, the following preamble and resolution were
unanimously adopted, viz:

Whereas a petition signed by over eleven hundred prominent railway officials of
the United States has been presented in the House of Representatives by the Hon. J.
B. Everhart, and referred to the Committee on Appropriations, which petition reads
as follows:

‘* To the Congress of the United States: The undersigned, desirous of perpetuating
the history of the birth and development of steam transportation (by steam-boat and
railway in America) respectfully petition your honorable body to appropriate such
a sum of money as may be deemed necessary to carry out the plan recently adopted
for the organization of the section of steam transportation in the U. S. National
Museum, said sum to be expended under the supervision of Prof. Spencer F. Baird,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and Director of the U. S. National Museum :”
Therefore,

Resolved, That the Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania for the pro-
motion of the Mechanic Arts most heartily and cordially concurs in the purpose and
objects of this petition, and respectfully requests favorable action thereon.

Adopted.

Attest:

WILLIAM H. WAQRL,
Secretary.

During the remainder of the fiscal year I spent such time as could be
spared from duties connected with the railway service in installing and
classifying objects collected while abroad and in correspondence with
railroad officials and others interested in the development of the sec-
SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 14}

tion. I judge from the interest shown by them that the nucieus which
we have at the end of the first year of the existence of the Section of
Steam Transportation can be rapidly expanded into a collection which
shall properly illustrate the history of the birth and development of the
steamship and railroad when it shall be practicable to organize the see-
tion upon a basis commensurate with its importance.
AEA,

Pail
4

REPORT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA IN THE U.S. NATIONAL
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886.

By H. G. Beyer, M. D., U. S. Navy, Honorary Curator.

In performing the somewhat peculiar and more or less difficult task
of arranging and classifying the collection of materia medica specimens
for the purpose of exhibition, two objects are constantly being kept in
mind, namely: (1) To make the collection both attractive and instruct-
ive to the general public, giving them an easy reference to any speci-
men on whieh they may desire information, and (2) to afford the stu-
dent of medicine and pharmacy the opportunity of studying materia
medica in all its details. :

Every specimen of drug on exhibition is accompanied with a small
but concise so-called specific label, which is more especially intended to
describe the drug itself as it appears in the market. This label will be
found attached to the square block upon which the bottle containing
the specimen is placed. <A second kind of label, which may be termed
the generic label, is much larger, and the instruction which it is in-
tended to give comprises the characters peculiar to an entire genus.
The third label is also a large one, and gives a description of each larger
group of plants to which the specimens belong. This will be found at
the beginning of each new group in the exhibition eases.

It is intended, finally, to have every specimen illustrated in the fol-
lowing way: (1) By a well-preserved and mounted herbarium specimen
of the plant from which the specimen is derived. (2) By a colored plate,
profusely illustrating not only the entire plant, in as nearly its natural
state as can be shown by plates, but also the anatomy of all its parts.
(3) By a picture showing the peculiar microscopical structure of the dif-
ferent constituents of each plant. Every one of these pictures will in
time be provided with a label which shall be descriptive of whatever
it is intended to elucidate.

This work, of course, will require some time to fully accomplish. At
present we are by no means in the possession of all the colored plates
and herbarium specimens needed to illustrate every specimen in the
above-described manner, and their collection, in many instances, is a

143
144° REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

mere matter of ehance; but a great deal can be done to expedite the
accomplishment of the object.

Much time has been already devoted to the large descriptive cata-
logue which we contemplate writing, and which is intended not only
as a guide for the general visitor and the student of medicine and phar-
macy resident at Washington, but which shall also give to druggists
and non-resident medical men valuable information on all the rare drugs
contained in the collection. This work has been progressing but slowly
for the reason that the library of this section of the Museum is not yet
provided with the books which are indispensable to complete a work of
this kind.

The remainder of the routine work consists in registering, examining,
identifying, and bottling the specimens which are from time to time
sent in for exhibition purposes. The writing of labels for new speci-
mens, as well as making constant improvements on old ones, is a con-
tinuous source of work.

The invasion of the specimens by insects is prevented in the usual
way, by placing blotting-paper, moistened with chloroform, into the
respective bottles, and this process so far has answered the purpose
very well indeed.

A list of the papers published in relation to the material and work
of this department has been furnished for the bibliography, and it is
therefore unnecessary to repeat them in this place.

Up to last year the arrangement of the specimens was only accord-
ing to the natural orders as they are found in Bentham and Hooker’s
Genera Plantarum. The change whieh has been made this year in the
classification is deemed of some importance, %. ¢., that each genus is
placed in the order in which it occurs in the above-mentioned work.

The number of specimens now on exhibition is 3,326, of which 1,457
have printed specific labels. In order to enable the curator to label
the remainder of the collection, a few more books of reference must be
provided. The illustration of the specimens by properly mounted col-
ored plates and herbarium plants is still in progress, and will occupy a
few months more.

The following is a list of specimens, representing the more important
and rare drugs which were received and entered on the register:

FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA.

Amyris balsamitera. Cissampelos Pereira.
Mucuna pruriens. Cyperus articulatus.
Cassia oborata. Capparis cynophallophora.
Calotropis gigantea. Smilax china.

Rhizophora mangle. Mikania guaco,

Ipomoea purga. Bocconia frutescens.
Avicennia nitida. Croton cascarilla.

Gouania domingensis. Andira inermis.

Laguncularia racemosa.
a

SECTION

FROM THE

Contrayerba.
Faban vegetal.
Panita.

MEXICAN EXHIBIT AT

OF MATERIA MEDICA.

Balsamo prieto,.
Balsamo negro.
Krameria.

Valerian, and dried specimens of the saffron plant—

Crocus sativa.

FROM THE JAPANESE EXHIBIT AT NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION, 1884-85.

Oil of peppermint.
Daphne Genka.
Artemisia capillaris.
Schizandra chinensis.
Ophiopogon spicatus.
Kaolin.

Cornus officinalis.
Tritillaria Thunbergii.
Trichosanthes japonica.
Bupleurum falcatum.
Dioscorea triphylla.

FROM MR.

Mammea americana,
Kola paste.

Plumeria alba.
Myristica surinamensis.

FROM DR, E.

Persea caroliniensis,
Erythraa tridentata.
Tagetes micranthea,
Tagetes lucida,
Cedronella cana.

Amanhura aspholoides.

Platycodon grandiflorum,
a D>

fehmannia luta.
Asarum variegatum.
Pinella tuberifera.

Xanthoxylum piperitum.,

Coceulus Thunbergii.
Astragalus laucea.
Citrus fusea,
Ligusticum acutilobum.

bs

i. STERNS, DETROIT, MICH.

Melia azedarach.
Fupatorium aya-pana,
Agar Agar, Japanese.

PALMER,

Vitis arizonica.
Hilaria cenchoides.
Liatris odoratissima.
Eleomurus candidans.
Salvia scorodonifolia.

FROM W. S. THOMPSON, WASHINGTON, D. C.

Oil of peppermint.

Pipmenthol.

Lf. Mis. 170, pt. 2——10

NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION,

1884—'B85.
Ay
Mf

a]

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS IN THE U.S, NATIONAL
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886,

By FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator.

The accessions received by this department during the year number
ninety-two, and are for the most part of much interest. In reviewing
the more important of these | have separated them into two principal
classes, viz., terrestrial and aquatic mammals.

The collection of indigenous mammals of the United States has been
enriched by the addition of two skins of the black-footed ferret, Puto-
rius nigripes, collected by Mr. A. B. Baker in Trego County, Kans. This
species is perhaps the rarest of North American mammals, and the ad-
dition of new skins to our series is a matter of considerable moment.

Several interesting collections were received from California and
Oregon, the most extensive being that of Mr. Walter E. Bryant.

A good skeleton of the common black bear, previously wanting to,
the collection, was prepared from the carcass of an individual which
died in confinement in the grounds of the Government Asylum for the
Insane, Washington.

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, the well-known circus pro-
prietors, have during the past year placed the Museum under fresh obli-
gations by their donations of valuable specimens of some of the larger
species of exotic mammals. Prominent among their gifts is the Indian
elepLant “Albert,” which was killed at Keene, N. H., in July, 1885, on
account of its exhibiting signs of insanity. Albert was an elephant of
large size, his height at the shoulder being 8 feet, 4 inches. The skin,
which is in an excellent state of preservation, will probably be mounted
during the coming year. Other valuable specimens received from these
gentlemen were a leopard, a zebra, a Hama, a blau-bok, and a kangaroo.
A very fine female tiger was also purchased from them for a small sum.
All these, with the exception of the kangaroo, represent species new to
the collection.

Mr. Lewis Sells, of Cincinnati, presented a skeleton of an eland,
Oreas canna.

Mr. A. KE. Brown, superintendent of the Philadelphia Zoological
Gardens, and Dr, W, A. Conklin, superintendent of the Central Park

147
148 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Menagerie, New York, have presented many valuable specimens. Nota-
ble among those received from the former gentleman was an ibex, Capra
ibex, a well-known Huropean species and one whose extermination seems
imminent. Dr. Conklin presented, among many valuable specimens,
two hog deer, Cervus porcinus.

A series of five young Greenland seals, obtained by Dr. C. Hart
Merriam from Labrador, and a number of fur seals and one specimen of
Steller’s sea-lion, collected by Mr. C. H. Townsend in St. Paul’s Island.
Alaska, together with another of the latter species obtained by Dr.
Stejneger in Bering Island, were the only pinnipeds received this year.

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger obtained from M. Grebnitzki, in Bering Isl-
and, and presented to the Museum, a skull of a bottle-nosed whale, be-
lieved to be Ziphius grebnitekt Stejnr., and the skeleton of a young
killer, Orca sp. From the United States life-saving stations not so
many cetaceans were received as during the two previous years. The
collection was enriched, however, by a fcetal and an adult female pygmy
sperm whale, obtained respectively by Keeper L. T. Grimm, of Love-
ladies Island, New York, and Keeper J. W. Ridgway, of Barnegat
City, New Jersey.

Keeper J. R. Hobbs captured a common dolphin, 2. delphis, and Mr.
C. H. Townsend collected a skull of the same species on the California
coast. The latter collector also obtained a fine specimen of the baleen
of the California gray whale.

In the Exhibition Hall the only new case added during the past year
was that built for the group of fur seals presented to the Institution
-a number of years ago by the Alaska Commercial Company. This case
is larger than any hitherto built, except the wall-cases, and is furnished
with exceptionally large glasses. It corresponds in design with the
Orang case, and will be placed opposite the latter at the north end of
the hall, previously erected, or in the center.

The two large groups of ruminants and seals were placed against the
south wall. They are unprovided with railings, or other means of pro-
tection, and the arrangement can not be regarded otherwise than tem-
porary. The curator has spent much time and thought upon the con-
sideration of plans for cases suitable for large specimens, but has not as
yet hit upon any satisfactory designs. It is quite probable, however,
that it will be found necessary to extend the large wall-cases now in
the hall.

Experiments have been made looking toward a better installation of
the cetacean casts than the present one. It has been deemed best to ar-
range them on a raised base upon the top of the wall-cases. A sample
section of the proposed base was made and placed in position, and it is
to be hoped that the whole re-arrangement will be effected during the
coming year.

The mounted specimens added to the exhibition series during the
year were chiefly ruminants and marsupials, Very few small species
DEPARTMENT OF

were mounted.
repairing and restoring was done.

MAMMALS. 149

In addition to the work upon the new specimens, much
A number of specimens furnished

by the taxidermists could not be placed on exhibition for want of ped-

estals.
as follows:

St. Bernard Dog.

Wolf, Canis lupus griseo-albus.

Fallow Deer (albino), Dama vulgaris.

Prong-horn Antelope (head), Antilocapra
americana.

Kamtschatkan Sheep (head), Ovis nivi-
cola.

Indian Sheep (head), Ovis cycloceros.

Barbary Wild Sheep, Ovis tragelaphus.

Japanese Goat-Antelopo, Nemorhedus cris-
pus.

Harnessed Antelope, Tragelaphus scriptus.

Bonte-Bok, Damalis pygarga.

The spesies added to the exhibition series during the year were

Water Buck, Kobus ellipsiprymnus.

Llama, Auchenia lama.

Zebra, Hquus burchellii.

Kangaroo Rat, Dipodomys phillipsii.

Coypu Rat, IMyopotamus coypu.

Tree Porcupine, Synetheres prehensilis.

Dugong, Halicore dugong.

Giant Kangaroo, Macropus giganteus.

Kangaroo (unidentified), Macropus sp.

Red Kangaroo Macropus rufus.

Great Rock Kangaroo, Macropus robustus.

Biack-Striped Wallaby, Halmaturus dor-
salis.

Additional temporary labels were prepared, and the majority of the
specimens are now labeled. The identification of some of the exotic
species is attended with great difficulty and consumes a large amount
of time.

The series of lithographic pictures of thoroughbred cattle, published
by the French Government in 1861, have been framed and placed on
exhibition.

It is probable that considerable changes in the appearance of the ex-
hibition hall will be brought about before the end of another year by
the adoption of new portable cases and the remodeling of the wall-
cases.

A very important as well as very necessary change in the arrange-
ment of the study series was made possible by the erection in the labora-
tory of a large storage case for skins. This case is 11 feet high and 134
feet wide and is divided into six compartments. As at present arranged,
it contains one hundred and thirteen standard drawers of various depths
from 3 to 12 inches. The case contains the entire collection of un-.
mounted skins, except the ungulata, pinnipedia, marsupialia, the larger
carnivores, and the rabbits. The larger species are simply placed in
deep drawers, each drawer having its proper label. The smaller spe-
cies, on the other hand, are arranged separately in paper trays, which
are in turn placed in shallow drawers.

The preliminary card catalogue of skins and alcoholics, begun some
time ago under unfavorable circumstances, has been completed.

The alcoholic collection remains in the same condition as when last
reported upon. The jars for repacking, and thereby condensing, the col-
lection have been received, but the work has not been begun. When the
series was removed to a new quarter of the laboratory to make room
for the storage cases for skins, fresh alcohol was added to such speci-
150 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

mens as seemed to need it. Shelves for the storage of empty jars have
been erected and prove a great convenience.

Only an insignificant number of specimens, with the exception of the
Soricide, remain unidentified. It has been deemed best to postpone the
identification of the shrews until the publication of the third part of Dr.
G. I. Dobson’s work upon the insectivora, which will probably appear
during the coming year.

The registers are complete to date, so far as the curator is aware.

During the fall a considerable number of worthless specimens were
removed from the collection and destroyed. This was done only after
very careful examination of the records, and with the consent of the
director.

The curator has had the assistance, as hitherto, of a single clerk, Dr.
W.G. Stimpson. He has continued to act as before in the capacity of
librarian and curator of the department of Comparative Anatomy and
also as secretary of the advising committee on publications. The force
of taxidermists was reduced in the spring to two by the resignation of
Mr. J. Richardson.

The curator bas continued his studies upon the toothed whales dur-
ing the year and has published several papers, which, together with
other papers based partly on museum material by naturalists not con-
nected with the Museum, are noticed in Part Iv of this report. (See
under C, Hart Merriam, R. W. Shufeldt, and Frederick W. True.)

In May, by invitation of the U.S. Commissioner of Fish and : Fish-
eries, the curator visited the porpoise fishery of the Wilmington Oil and
Leather Company at Hatteras, N. C., and obtained much valuable in-
formation regarding the life-history of the Bottle-nosed Dolphin, Twrsi-
ops tursio, which is caught in great numbers at that point for the manu-
facture of leather and oil.

The Alaskan collections of Mr. E. W. Nelson and the late C. L. Me-
Kay weve identified, and annotated lists of the species were prepared.
The notes upon Mr. Nelson’s collection will be published in his report;
those relating to Mr. MeKay’s collection, in the Proceedings of the
Museum.

In the course of his work upon Mr. Nelson’s specimens the eurator had
occasion to compare the skulls of the American species of Lynx and was
fortunate enough to discover certain cranial characters which render L.
canadensis readily distinguished from L. rufus and its varieties. The
discovery was made the subject of a note in Science, Vol. vil, p. 396.

During an examination of the collection of insectivores a single
specimen of an apparently undescribed mole from Japan was found.
A description of the specimen has been prepared for the Proceedings
of the Museum, under the name of Dimecodon pilirostris.

The curator has also made anew study of the Kangaroo Rats (Dipod-
omys) resulting in the establishment of two species, D. phillipsti (Gray)
and D.agilis Gambel, the former having four toes on the hind foot, and
the latter five.

a
DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. T5t

The usual amount of work has been done in the identification of speci-
mens sent to the Museum for that purpose by persons in different parts
of the country.

Numerous requests for technical information have been received and
responded to. Some information was given Dr. G. i. Dobson relative
to the dentition and cranial characters of Sorex hoyi, S. erawfordi, and
S. evotis.

The curator has been in correspondence with Mr. A. E. Brown, super-
intendent of the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, relative to the specific
distinctions of the smaller American deer, and with Dr. E. C. Spitzka
relative to the commonest species of dolphin to be met with on the At-
lantie coast. Mr. G. H. Ragsdale, of Gainesville, Tex., has received

various information in regard tothe mammals of that State. A request

from Dr. Alfred Nehring, of Berlin, for a list of the specimens of Galictis
in this Museum was responded to. The facts relating to the periodical
shedding of the antlers by C. virginianus and other species of deer, were
sent to Mr. C. C. Smith, of Compton, Pa.

Several requests for information relative to methods of preserving
specimens were received and responded to by the curator or chief
taxidermist.

The number of mounted skins exhibited on January 1, 1885, and at
the present date is as follows:

On exhipition Jantary 1, 1885.25 2.2 525s bee de on cae seeds bee cee twee core 646
Onjexhibition June 30) 1886 ...-...-.... <<<. sock oe Vleet bets Soe pees 739

It is necessary to state regarding these figures that they do not indi.
cate the real increase of the exhibition series. The collection contains
a certain proportion of much-deteriorated specimens. Some of these,
which have been exposed to the light on one side only for a score or
more of years, are very unsightly, the color being much faded on the
side which has been exposed, while on the other side the original tints
are preserved. These specimens are unfit for exhibition and must nec-
essarily be withdrawn from the exhibition series. The gradual substi-
tution of new specimens for old and faded ones, the removal of others
without replacement, and the addition of specimens entirely new, are
operations which are carried on simultaneously, and it is therefore some-
what difficult to indicate the real increment. The last figures given
above simply show that there were on exhibition at the close of the fiscal
year (1885-86) 735 mounted skins of mammals. The number of new
specimens actually completed by the taxidermists and placed on exhi-
bition during the year was 22, including 3 heads.

The improved facilities in the laboratory have made possible an actual
count of all the specimens in the collection. Such an enumeration was
undertaken at the close of the year, with the following results :

Bshibition series of skinS~.<~ .c<ccclebeeon once ccse cc cebe AP ie ee Oe acme an | 735
Daphicate.andisindy series Of skinges g2ciia li: s.-n2 swe 'sddee oes seco oe we SaeGe
PRO ON OWE CiNIGW Sy er aN Se EN UN Na sepldaih ea screws cae ty neo

GA ut a UT BT OY, a 0 ou Cg Ee pe AIR a 7,451
152 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

These figures may be relied upon as indicating the actual number of
Specimens in the collection, and supersede those given in previous re-
ports, which were partly based upon estimates.

The statistics of skins and alcoholic specimens added, distributed, and
destroyed during the year are as follows:

Specimensiaddeditothescollection Aye 2s oe Ne ye es ee See eee eects 381
Specimensidistribubed yee reese ae oo ie Ue cin a elo aa be ial relate paeeestade 100
Specimens: destroyed jr. hoes He eaks os asic Soe he eee eee ml oitieere me eee eee 113

The last entry-number in the register in June, 1885, is 15,075; the
last number June 30, 1886, is 15,482.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MU-
SEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886,

By Rospertr Ripeway, Curator.

‘

SKINS AND ALCOHOLIC SPECIMENS.

The number of birds, chiefly skins, which were added to the collection
during the year ending June 30, 1886, is 4,147 (Museum register 104914
to 109060, inclusive). The moreimportant accessions* were the follow-
ing:

Baird, Prof. S. I°., Director U. S. National Museum: Pelagodroma marina (1 speci-
men); arare Petrel collected off the coast of Massachusetts, and new to the
North American fauna. (Gift.)

Bartlett, Ldw., England: 96 specimens, 67 species, from different parts of the world,
but mostly from Australia. The collection embraces many interesting forms new
to the Museum, among others, not less than four speciesof Pardalotus, thus nearly
completing the series in the Museum of this peculiar Australian genus. (Mx-
change.)

Batchelder, Charles F., Cambridge, Mass.: a pair of a recently deseribed Junco from
North Carolina (J. hiemalis carolinensis), new to the collection. (Hxcehange.)
Beckham, Charles W., Washington, D. C.: 1 albino g Redhead Duck (Aythya amer-

icana) purchased for the Museum in Centre Market, Washington.

Belding, L., Stockton, California : 13 specimens, 9 species, from California, among them
2 specimens of the hitherto undescribed and unknown male of Colaptes rufipilens
from Guadaloupe Island. (Gift. )

Bendire, Capt. Charles £., U.S. Army: 30 specimens, 19 species, from the vicinity of
Fort Custer, Montana. <A very acceptable accession. (Gift. )

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U. S. Army: 1 specimen of Melsopiza fasciata from Fort
Custer, Montana. (Gift.)

Benedict, J. B., U.S. ish Commission Steamer Albatross : 16 specimens, 5 species, in
alcohol, taken in the North Atlantic. (U.S. Fish Commission.)

Benedict, J. L., and W. Lee, U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross: 8 specimens, 2
species, taken in the North Atlantic. (U.S. Fish Commission.)

Berlepsch, Hans Graf v., Miinden, Germany :t 60 specimens, 50 species. A valuable
and interesting collection, consisting chiefly of the desiderata from South America,
among which are some types of several new species recently described by the
sender. Nearly all the species are new to the collection. (Exchange. )

*Tn addition to the accessions here enumerated, many others of equal importance
were received and are referred to in Part Vv of the report. These are not included in
this list, since their mention here would only be a repetition of what is said concern-
ing them in Part v.

+t For complete list of specimens included in this collection, see Accession List,
Pt. v.

153
154 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Brown, Arthur Ldwin, Superintendent Zootogical Gardens, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 speci-
men of Whitney’s Owl, in the flesh. (Gift.)

Brown, Arthur Edwin, Superintendent Zoological Gardens, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 East
Indian Parakeet, Palwornis eupatrius, in the flesh. (Gift.)

Coale, H. K., Chicago, Ill.: 26 specimens, 24 species, chiefly from South America and
India, among them several species not heretofore represented in the collections
of the Museum. (Exchange.)

Hamlin, J. P., Washington, D. C.: 2 live young Syrnium nebulosum, from Montgomery
County, Md. (Gift.)

Hargitt, Edward, Chiswick, England :* 105 specimens, 41 species, mostly water- birds
from France and the Orkneys. 2 fine specimens of Megalestris skua, g and 9,
are especially noteworthy. (Exchange. )

Johnson, J. W., U. S. Signal Service,* Nushagakh, Alaska: 71 specimens, 19 species,
from Nushagakh, including 2 specimens of the recently discovered Plectrophenax
hyperboreus. (U.S. Signal Service.)

Dugés, Prof. Alfred, Guanajuato, Mexico. :* 28 specimens, 27 species, from southern
Mexico. (Gift.)

Dugés, Prof. Alfred, Guanajuato, Merico.:* 11 specimens, 11 species, from Mexico.
(Gift. )

Fox, Dr. W. H., Washington, D. C.:* 7 specimens, 6 species, from New Hampshire.
(Exchange. )

Guesde, M. Louis, Museum L’THerminier, Guadeloupe, West Indies :* 25 specimens, 22
species, mostly water birds from Guadaloupe. The most interesting is a specimen
of Speotyto quadeloupensis, a species new to the collection. (Gift.)

Johnson, J. W., U.S. Signal Service, Nushagakh, Alaska: 34 specimens, 15 species, from
Nushagak ; nothing rare, but the specimens are nicely prepared. (U.S. Signal
Service. )

Jordan, Prof. D. S., President Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.: 43 specimens, 37
species, from the Lower Amazon. Thirteen of these species are entirely new
to the collection. (Gift.)

Lawrence, George N., New York City: Type specimen of Sporadinus bracei Lawr., from
Andros Island, Bahamas. (Gift. )

Lloyd, W., Toyah, Tex. :t 9 specimens, 8 species, Passerine birds from Fort Davis, Tex.
(Gift. )

Marshall, Henry, Laurel, Md.: 1 mounted specimen of the European Teal, Nettion
crecca ( g ad.), shot in the Potomac River, near Washington, in April, 1885. (Pur-
chased. )

Mason, Prof. (0: Ti, OS: National Museum: 8 mutilated specimens of South Amer-
ican birds (3 species) used as ornamental appendages to an Indian belt. They
have all been described as new by the curator, and are probably from an unex-
plored district of northern South America. (Department of Ethnology, U. 8. Na-
tional Museum. )

Ma:nard, C. J., Boston, Mass. :{ 10 specimens, 3 species, from Florida, among them a
fine pair of Anas fulvigula. (Purchased. )

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, through Prof. F'. Ferrari-Perez :
95 specimens, (mounted mostly in excellent style), 59 species, collected in the
States of Puebla and Vera Cruz, Mexico, forming part of the Mexican Govern-
ment exhibit at New Orleans. A very valuable acquisition, especially on ac-
count of the excellence of mounting. Several species are thus for the first time
added to the exhibition series, while many old and poorly mounted specimens
have been replaced by those of the present collection. (Exchange. )

* For complete list of specimens included in this accession, see Accession List, Pt. v.
t For further information concerning the specimens, see Accession List, Pt. v.

{ For list of specimens, see Accession List, Pt. v.

\ For further information concerning this accession, see Accession List, Pt. Vv.
DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 155

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, through Prof. F. Ferrari-Perez :
50 specimens, 36 species, chiefly from the State of Vera Cruz, Mexico. Includes
several plumages new to the collection, (xchange. )

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, through Prof. F. Ferrari-Peres: 1
mounted specimen of Catharista atrata, and one skin of Antrostomus vociferus, both
from Mexico. (Exchange.)

Musée @ Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: 86 specimens, 71 species, chiefly from Mada-
gascar and Cochin China, nearly all new to the collection. This is one of the
most important collections received recently, embracing, as it does, a great
number of generic types quite peculiar to the island of Madagascar, which the
Museum for years has tried in vain to obtain. Among the most noteworthy forms
may be mentioned, two Leplosomus discolor, Tylas, Cyanolanius, Arlamia, Berni-
evria, Calicalius, Vanga, Hartlaubia, Euryceros prevosti, Geobiastes squamigera,
Brachypteracias leptosoma, Coua, ete. (Exchange.)

Nutting, C. C., Carlinville, Ill. : 13 specimens, 8 species, from Florida. (Purehased.)

Palmer, William, U.S. Fish Commission :. 3 specimens of Common Crossbill, from
Escanaba, Mich. (Gift.)

Ragsdale, G. H. Gainesville, Tex. :* 12 specimens, 7 species, including a fine series of six
Otocoris arenicola, a Syrnium nebulosum alleni, the first specimen of this form taken
outside of Ilorida, and a fine specimen of Buteo harlani (the latter purchased, the
others being given).

Rey, Dr. E., Leipzig, Germany : 10 specimens, 10 species, from various localities ; all
new to the collection. (Purchased. )

Ridqway, Robert, Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum: 259 specimens,
109 species from Wheatland, Ind. ; 23 specimens, 14 species from Richland County,
lil. ; total, 281 specimens, 123 species. (Smithsonian Explorations. )

Ridgway, Robert, Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum : 1 snowy owl,
Nyctea nyctea, shot near Alexandria, Va. (Purchased.)

Roberts, George W., Chester County, Pa. : 27 specimens, 17 species, including a series of
10 Quiscalus purpureus, from Chester County, and two young Syrniwm nebulosum
allenit from Florida; collected by Dr. 3. H. Warren. (Gift.)

Robinson, Russell, Richmond, Va. :+ 1 specimen of albino dusky duck, Anas obscura, in
flesh. (Gift. )

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army :+ 13 specimens, 9 species, from Fort Wingate, N. Mex.
(Gift. )

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. Army :t 9 specimens, 7 species, from the vicinity of Fort
Wingate. (Gift.)

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army :t 13 specimens, 4 species of Junco, from Fort Win-
gate. (Gift. ) ’

Smith, Hugh M., Washington, D. C.:{ 1 specimen, in the flesh, of Old Squaw Duck,
Clangula hyemalis, shot July 26, at Piney Point, Lower Potomac; 3 Bown-headed
Nuthatches, Sitta pusilla, and3 Western Sandpipers, Mreunetes occidentalis, from St.
George Island, Maryland. (Gitt.)

Stearns §* Co., Detroit, Mich. :\ 5 specimens, 5 species, from Costa Rica. (Pur-
chased. )

Stearns § Co., Detroit, Mich. : 36 specimens, 27 species, from Bogota, mostly Hum-
ming birds. (Gift.)

Stejneger, Dr. L., Assistant Curator, Department of Birds, U. 8. National Museum: 1
Snow Goose, from North Carolina, and 4 Nuthatches, from Norway. (Gift.)

*For complete list of specimens, see Accession List, Part v.

t For further information concerning this accession see Accession List, Part v.
t In this entry are included the two accessions numbered 16283 and 16376.

§ For list of specimens see Accession List, Part v.
156 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

Stejneger, Dr. L., Assistant Curator, Deparimentof Birds, U.S. Nationat Museum : 21 speci-
mens, 18 species, from Kamtschatka. (Gift.)

Townsend, Charles H., U. S. Fish Commission :* 243 specimens, 81 species, from Una-
lashka, Kowak River, and islands of Bering Sea. A valuable collection, includ-
ing many other interesting specimens, two examples of the recently discovered
Plectrophenax hyperboreus, obtained on their breeding ground, Hall Island, Bering
Sea; anda speciesof Sandpiper, Tringadamacensis, new to North America. (Smith-
sonian lxplorations. )

Townsend, Charles H., U.S. Fish Commission: 156 specimens, 52 species, collected in
Humboldt Bay, California. (U.S. Fish Commission.)

U.S. Fish Commission, Naturalists of the Steamer Albatross : 524 specimens, 51 species,
mostly from the Bahamas. The collection is of unusual interest as containing
not only several forms new to science, but also as extending our knowledge in
regard to the distribution of the species on the individual islands, on many
of which no collections have been made previously, and in furnishing large series
of many species which formerly were poorly represented in the Museum collec-
tion. Hi

Warren, Dr. B. H., West Chester, Pa.: 5i specimens, 21 species, in alcohol, from Florida,
(Gift.)

Two magnificent donations to the sectional library of the Department
of Birds deserve being mentioned in the present connection:

Mr. Henry Seebohm, London, England, has presented to the library
a complete copy, text and plates, of Dresser’s great work, “The Birds
of Europe,” which is now bound in fifteen great quarto volumes. This
grand work is well nigh indispensable to any one studying ornithology,
and the Department is under great obligations to the gentleman named
for his munificence.

From Mr. W. I. Brooks, Milton, Ontario, Canada, the Department
has obtained a full set of Allan Hume’s “Stray Feathers,” a journal of
ornithology for India and its dependencies, ten octavo volumes. This
journal had become a very important desideratum of late years. as the
collections of the Museum from the Pacific coasts of the Old World have
been very rapidly inereasing.

The total number of specimens distributed during this fiscal year was
2,842, as follows :

Specimens sentinvexchange ¢ 222.300. toe eae ee ee See OSL
Specimens loaned for examinawon =. 25-5 Gace. es -aecloaat ee Cee ene Oe eee nou
Specimens (alcoholic) transferred to the osteological department --.-.-.-..---- 24

so) 7 Meet ep ete Sees Sep ae ye RRP Ei teen eR he I ee Ll ea | atten

Twelve additional cases have been put up and refitted with shelves
in order to relieve the overcrowded cases already occupied by the exhi-
bition series, plans and specifications for shelves, ete., for these cases
were drawn up, the work superintended, and finally the specimens trans-
ferred and arranged, to the very great improvement of the collection.
This work was done during the months of July, August, and September.

An important feature of the year’s work has been the unpacking,
determining, and cataloguing the collection of mounted birds belonging
to the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission. This excep-

” For list of specimens see Accession List, Part v.
|

DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS 157

tionally fine collection, as regards preparation of the specimens which
had been mounted entirely from fresh specimens, was of very great in-
terest and benefit to the Department, affording, as it did, several sug-
gestions of practical value, and much needed material for study, includ-
ing no less than five more or less remarkable new species. The collection
was in charge of Prof. Fernando Ferrari-Perez, C. ., who prepared.a
catalogue of the collection for publication in the ‘“* Proceedings” of the
Museum, the Curator of the Department of Birds determining the spe-
cies and describing those which were new, besides rendering every
needed assistance to Professor Ferrari-Perez. The new species will be
fully described in Professor Ferrari-Perez’s catalogue, in the forthcoming
volume of the “ Proceedings,” but have already been briefly character-
ized and named, in order to secure priority, in “The Auk” for July,
i886. The new species are as follows: (1) Amphispiza ferrari-perezt ;
(2) Pipilo submaculatus ; (3) P. complexus ; (4) Anas diazi (named in
honor of General Augustin Diaz, president of the Commission); (5)
Philortyx personatus.

Special reference to the A. O. U. Code and Check-Hist will be found
in the Bibliography, under American Ornithologists’ Union.

The collection of mounted duplicates, consisting of more than 7,000
specimens, aggregating about 600 species, was made up into six sets for
distribution, set L containing 367 specimens and 295 species.

During the year the copy for species labels for the exhibition series
was carefully revised to correspond with the nomenclature and numera-
tion of the American Ornithologists’ Union ‘check-list, the number of
separate labels being about 975. Proof of these was also carefully re-
vised by both the curator and assistant curator. :

Several groups of birds which had hitherto been in a state of great
confusion were made the subject of special critical revision by the cura-
tor, with very satisfactory results, thanks to the excellent material in
the Museum collection. Among the more important groups thus cov-
ered may be mentioned the particularly different Procellarian genera
Aistrelata and Puffinus, and the genera Colinus, Larus, Lagopus, and
Empidonax. The last named was revised at the special request of Dr.
P. LL. Selater, Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, who is en-
gaged in preparing the catalogue of Tyrannidee in the British Museum,
and who forwarded his own rich collection of Empidonaces to aid in the
investigation.

The assistant curator has also continued his revision of Japanese
ornithology. When Captain Blakiston donated his magnificent collec-
tion of Japanese birds to the National Museum, it was with the under-

‘standing that it be properly worked up, for which purpose he also lett

his manuscript notes, accumulated during twenty years collecting,
and a great deal of literature, with the assistant curator. Several pa-
pers on the Japanese Avifauna have already been submitted for pub-
ication by the latter and will be found in the subjoined list of papers
158 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886.

not yet printed. He complains, however, of the great difficulty in set-
tling many important questions for want of Temminck and Schlegel’s
“ Wauna Japonica, Aves.”

The following papers have been prepared and submitted

BY THE CURATOR,

(1) The Geographical and Exploring Commission of Mexico. By Fernando Ferrari-
Perez, chief of the Natural History section, Pp. MS. 101.

(2) On Astrelata sandwichensis Ridgw. Pp. MS.24. (Established as a good species,
very distinct from As. hasitata. )

(3) Description of a new oyster-catcher (Hematopus galapagensis) from the Gala-
pagos Islands. Pp. MS. 4.

(4) On Empidochanes fuscatus (Max) and Empidonax brunneus Ridgw. Pp. MS. 24
(sent to editors of the “Ibis”). [The latter proves to ve not only specifically but
generically distinct from the former, to which it had been referred by Mr. Salvin,
the question being determined by comparison of types of the two species, the former
being in the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City. ]

(5) Description of a new species of Empidonar from Guatemala. Pp. MS. 2 (sent
to editors of the “ Ibis”). [Z. salvini Ridgw., based chiefly on specimens in Dr. Scla-
ters’s collection, collected by Osbert Salvin, but a specimen in the National Museum
made the type. ]

BY THE ASSISTANT CURATOR

(1) Review of Japanese birds. I. Woodpeckers. Pp. MS. 81; witha colored, plate.

(2) The British Marsh Tit. Pp. MS. 5.

(3) Review of Japanese birds. II. Titsand Nuthatches. III. Appendix to the Marsh
Tits. Pp. MS. 71, 1 figure.

(4) Notes on species of the Australian Genus Pardalotus. Pp. MS. 9.

(5) On Turdus alpestris and ‘Turdus torquatus, two distinct species of European
Thrushes. Pp. MS. 28.

(6) Description of Rallus jouyt sp. nov., with remarks on FR, striatus and 2. gularis.

(7) On Brachyramphus perdix (Pall.) and its nearest allies. Pp. MS. 18; colored
plate.

(8) Additional remarks toa previous paper on Turdus alpestris, based upon material
received during May. Pp. MS. 13.

(9) Additional remarks to a previous paper on Japanese Woodpeckers, based upon
material received during May. Pp. MS. 2. (Description of Picus canus perpallidus,
subspecies nova. )

(10) Reviews of Japanese birds. IV. Rails, Gallinules, and Coots. Pp. MS. 51.

An account of the minor and routine work is given herewith in tabu-
lar form:

Ofticialetters written 5 eo.) e iss mse ticle re eat= ie eine a ntnietee eee natsalerenisias 332
Officialimemorand ay Soe ee ca oo SEE SS Meee ee nee sore mete cere 215
Memoranda/of packing esse see eee sete a c/a) e Satcial se Cn ee eteletate ey ee eee eee 1389
Orders for iwork ¢ sacs cist erste eee oe ae eS > Ic SIS ee See patie, Seno enerets - 55
Requisitions:for material andisupplies) =: +-\.= <= -n) --cieiioeke wearin eae eee 128
TMIVOTCESe (EPL CALS) ior ces ise gteele io in <tsie are ersten etetatopea te eo aos la ater eta 510
Galleys'of proof corrected fee es cens sacs ae scicjas ace ee eee eee eee eee 142
Parcesioti proof corrected! sa ste saeco eo 2 ose ates tino ene e ere miee ene ee ete tet 1,183
Papers prepared for publication ....-.-.-...-----.-- Lape aac OER an Re 42
Number ot birds mounted for exhibition series.........---------------------- 132
Numberofubirds mad@ainto, sking. eee <-ooes oo oe eee ee er eeeen oer 7
Number of mounted birds transferred from the old stands to the new ones. .--- 2, 006

New walnut stands fitted together. ...---. see cee: en ceer cove seen eeren-eeeres ty 20h
DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 159

The papers published during the year by the curator and other inves-
tigators, based upon material belonging to the department of birds in
the National Museum, are noticed in the bibliography forming Part 1v
of this report.

An actual inventory of the whole collection of mounted birds and
skins was taken, showing the number of specimens in the Museum to
be as follows:

GIDE SSMDLLOM SCLICS) Soci saec noses atee ete ee eel as Saas Sab Seed ene cee asacese 7, 000
(2) North American reserve scries (including Passeres, Macrochires, Pici,

DUIS COCCH RES): Sei oti cee wavs Same eee Nelo eek, be Sls woe tere ear ofa need Se 12, 841
()eNetropical reserve (including ditto) 22% -22oe co ac6 sence a eco se eccene 11, 324

(Ola World reservei(including, ditto) .2 aes f2-- 4224- esescneccs 2s eecc cess Op tou
(5) Water birds, game birds, raptores, etc. (not separated geographically).. 10,973
CC) LD CCE 15199 a a Ee re Pet 7,570
(aes COON CS (GSU a LEM) ise. .nic52=c ee cinaneeincemeioe oe ee eee ee asl eee 2,500

i RCO} FE) | ae, lap i > Pe ee a ea name EE ea

Weapon somacececas. aay tks
The reserve series, exclusive of alcoholics, consisted, therefore, of
45,875 specimens at the end of June, 1886,
The reserve skin series at the same time consisted of 33,875 specimens.
The different families were represented as follows:

Family- Raion 3. Family. spahoakt
LUC 47 | Caprimulgide :
Alaudidie : North America ......... ‘L.9
North America ...--..-- 256 | Neotropical .........-.. 94
Neotropical ..........-. 7 Old World 2223552 -2e 19
Old World: 2 255: 2222. 110 242
73 | Cathartidée-...-......- one ce eee 29
Aleedinide : Certhiida :
North America _........ 27 North America .......-. 90
Neotropical ...........- 97 Neotropical ...-...-.... 3
Old World ....-...-.... 94 | OlGGWorldG= = ee = see 44
218 | 137
PA CIC cee sete Rt, en ee se Ne 489 | Chamwida ..:....,22.. 1... -..---- 28
Ampelidie : | Charadriitn >. ccan¢ 22.2282 2 3s 485
North America .....---. 70 Chiomdidie. 2 2224225 ee eee 4
Neotropical ..........-. 9 j,ClConndwe.: S6s55 eubelteeee ae 13
Old World 3.2...5-52- 0. 14 Cinclide :
93 North America.......... 44
L\TDEA ING oye a ae 1119 Neotropical 22-25-2222. 10
PMPITIZAGDD coe ne Cwise ce vee cendeeues 79 OOD Wiorlditeeeeeeees 52 14
ANTENA Eee ee rr 17 68
PATOL =< 2. a oe nico eo he ee cee wee 411 | Coerebide :
/ STH CG Ee ee a 14 North America...-.. 2... 2
Bucconidw -... 22... -- ip ee ee. 90 Neotropical ...22. 22222. 398
BMHCEOMIO...°S- 2s. ---2- «2: 10 400
(OP CEU C8 es eee ea frimColum pide sesssece sce eae aoe ae 24
Capitonidee : Colymbidee:. . 2 cc: i sece 2 ee Sea. * 164
Neotropical <2 sc22222.: 41 Gonopophapides -..--: 5.222... - 10
Oldworldy:.. 55.5.2. 26 17 WOLACIACEe ss techs So eee eee. 11

rs IS, | \OOTVIGP (CLOWS) «5+ ope se ev e<ys ¢esee nee
160 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18386.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: - y

Family. Family.

No. of
specimens.

No. of
specimens.
EM SS Miaranadicdnm +

wuUY A ee — >: = y

Family. Family.

