te

es
pei = ’ SE oon ERY a Fi iy
sf ’ ee _ * on ‘ 4 eS goa - sigs

enn

oe

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

_ es
Xl Bs re,
a AES fASO% re)
NRYING von ey

an seee)

PUBLICATION 4111

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1952

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1953
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 29, 1952.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1952. Ihave the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Werrmorg, Secretary.
u

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25, D.C. - Price $2.75

CONTENTS

Page

Tatvoteoincinigs 32-2 t wot OB deg ed ee gene ea oe Pee es Vv

@eneralestatementess) Se ate e ee ee eee See eee ee a a ee 1

fire Establishment oe Ss= 2S lel i eee nets eh es B= Sass 4

Mite Board of Regentsis.2 feedets aCe At es ede eh tes ee stece et 4

Rina ces: Serpe ee a ee ees ee eee eee eee Sas eb Sasser se 5

Appropristionss. {2.2252 =-2- 22-0 2 s<4s522--- 5 +5-- Sse eeso- eee 5

WHEHONE LS 60 tee oo cas Sop So BOS SS RCE Ee Sec BOB CE Snes a= Hoe aaa aeome 6

Nineteenth annual James Arthur lecture on the sun____---------------- ia

inilvatnagelebishony sere 22ers ee ee ee ae 7

Policing of Smithsonian buildings_-_.-.-.----------------------------- 7

Mary Vaux Walcott fund for publications in botany - ------------------ 8

Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_____-- 8

inistienhiom ese 6t ool at ee Ae 2 a ee see oe 12

fiabrary .0 22. fae 26 eos 2 oe nese e soso tS ee 13

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum------------ 14

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art_...---------------- 26

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts__-_-------- 41

4, Report on, the PreemGallery,ofArta=.3 2654 3-, =-\22!3--- ee 48

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology - - ----------- 56

6. Report on the International Exchange Service--_----------- 86

7. Report on the National Zoological Park__.__-------------- 94

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory - - --------------- 130

9. Report on the National Air Museum_--_----------------- 136

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area_____------------ 150

i, Repory onthe Wbrabysn <2 ee een ne see 158

12e0heporbon publications. 2.252 —2—— = = ee oe 162

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents------- aay OS
GENERAL APPENDIX

Radio mstronomy, by vack. kaveliite.-- = 2. 223 222 ee ee site 179

The sun, the moon, and the tides, by Leo Otis Colbert_---------------- 185

Engineering and pure science, by W. F. G. Swann_-------------------- 201

Man’s synthetic future, by Roger Adams- ---------------------------- 217

Phosphorus and life, by D. P. Hopkins_---..-.----------------------- 233

The Ice Age in the North American Arctic, by Richard Foster Flint- ---- 243

ut
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Page

The 1944 eruption of Usu, in Hokkaido, Japan, by Takeshi Minakami,
Toshio Ishikawa, and. Kenzo: Yapi-.-.. 222222255 2222--.225-2-25ee 261
Snails and their relations to the soil, by Harley J. Van Cleave___-------- 273

The ecology, evolution, and distribution of the vertebrates, by Austin H.
(G19 Ce ee Oe eS eee SER See eee 283

Grasshopper Glacier of Montana and its relation to long-distance flights
of grasshoppers, by Ashley B. Gurey2-725-2- -___--=- ->_- = ee 305

Recent advances in the study and techniques of anatomy, by Paul G. Roofe
ANG. SamuellW.. Weshennas =22 6 pes eee ee ee ee ee ee 327
Livestock parasitology in the United States, by Benjamin Schwartz_____- 343
Botanizing with the Okinawans, by Egbert H. Walker____--._---------- 359
Bromeliad malaria, by Lyman B. Smith:- =. .2.-.-<2-2--. eee 385
Pharmacology of antibiotics, by Henry Welch_..-_-.-------2-- ~~ +-22 399
An anthropologist looks at Lincoln, by T. D. Stewart_____------------- 419

The use of music in the treatment of the sick by American Indians, by
Frances Densmore:.--=2==- 22222 42-.- eee eee eee eo eee 439

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Plates 1,-22-~~ 222s ee See ee ee ee ee eee 54
Plate:3:< =~ ccnscsesceeedces es eed sd bee eee eee eee ee 102
Ice Age in North American Arctic (Flint): Plates 1-4___-______-_------- 246
The 1944 eruption of Usu (Minakami, et al.): Plates 1-6_________- os 7 262
Snails and their relations to the soil (Van Cleave): Plate 1__-_____._-__- 278
Grasshopper Glacier of Montana (Gurney): Plates 1-8____----_-------- 310
Livestock parasitology (Schwartz)* Plate 14. 2220 22_ 222 422 eee eee 358
Botanizing with the Okinawans (Walker): Plates 1-10_--.------------- 374
Bromeliad malarias(Simith)ice Welates ele cee a ae eee ee eee 390
An anthropologist looks at Lincoln (Stewart): Plates 1-4___.-_-.-----_- 438

Music in the treatment of the sick by American Indians (Densmore):
Pintesl=4. = 2. ee eB Le a ee 454

THEZSMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1952

Presiding Officer ex officio—Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—FREp M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Vice President of the United States.
FReEp M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
DEAN C. ACHESON, Secretary of State.
JoHN W. Snypkr, Secretary of the Treasury.
Grorcre C, MARSHALL, Secretary of Defense.
JaMrs P. McGrangry, Attorney General.
JESSE M. DonaLpson, Postmaster General.
Oscar CHAPMAN, Secretary of the Interior.
CHaRLEs FI’. BRANNAN, Secretary of Agriculture.
CHARLES SAWYER, Secretary of Commerce.
Maurice Tosin, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Vice President of the United States.
WALTER F. GEORGE, Member of the Senate.
CLinton P. ANprerRson, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JoHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
E. E. Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAB BUSH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee.—Ropserr V. FLEMING, chairman, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLAR-
ENCE CANNON.
Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretaries —JOoHN BH. Grar, J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mkrs. LOUISE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—J. D. Howarp.
Chief, editorial division—PavuL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—Mrs. Lena PF, CLARK.
Chief, accounting division—THOMAS F, CLark.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIVER.
Assistant Superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLEs C, SINCLAIR.
Chief, personnel division.—Jack B. NEWMAN.
Chief, publications division.—L. Ei, COMMERFORD.
Chief, supply division.— ANTHONY W. WILDING.
Photographer.—¥k. B. KESTNER.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.
Chief, office of correspondence and records—HELENA M. WEISS.
Editor.—Joun §. Lea.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, J. H. Anglim, exhibits
preparators; W. W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology.

Division of Archeology: Waldo R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., asso-
ciate curator; Mrs. M. C. Blaker, museum aide; J. Townsend Russell, Jr.,
honorary assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, C. M. Watkins,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator ; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.

Associate in Anthropology: Neil M. Judd.

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator ; W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ;
C. H. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G. Laybourne, C. B. East, J. D.
Biggs, exhibits preparators; Mrs. Aime M. Aw], scientifie illustrator.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, H. W. Setzer, associate curators;
Charles O. Handley, Jr., assistant curator; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator ;
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator, Samuel A. Arny, museum aide; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of
alcoholic and skeleton collections; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, associate
curator; W. T. Leapley, Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aides.

Division of Insects: Edward A. Chapin, curator; R. E. Blackwelder, W. D.
Field, O. L. Cartwright, Grace E. Glance, associate curators; Sophy
Parfin, Junior entomologist; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: W. M. Mann, Robert A. Cushman, assistant
custodians.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; Frederick M.
Bayer, associate curator; Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide; Mrs. Harriet
Richardson Searle, Max M. Ellis, J. Perey Moore, collaborators; Mrs.
Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
R. Tucker Abbott, associate curators; W. J. Byas, museum aide; Paul
Bartsch, associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Associates in Zoology: T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Biéving, C. R.
Shoemaker, W. K. Fisher, Austin H. Clark.

Collaborator in Zoology: R. S. Clark.

Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham.

SECRETARY’S REPORT Vit

DEPARTMENT OF BoraAny (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) :

Jason R. Swallen, head curator.

Division of Phanerogams: A. C. Smith, curator; B. C. Leonard, BE. H. Walker,
Lyman B. Smith, associate curators; Velva EB. Rudd, assistant curator;
E. P. Killip, research associate.

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.

Division of Grasses: Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator; Mrs. Agnes Chase,
F. A. McClure, research associates.

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator ; Paul S$. Conger, asso-
ciate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological
collections and honorary curator of Fungi; David G. Fairchild, custodian
of Lower Fungi.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:

W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn, museum aide; Jessie G. Beach,
junior geologist.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; 19h Lee
Henderson, G. S. Switzer, associate curators; F. BE. Holden, museum
technician; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., David Nicol, Arthur L. Bowsher, associate
curators; W. T. Allen, museum aide; J. Brookes Knight, research associate
in paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collec-
tion ; Preston Cloud, research associate.

Section of Paleobotany: Roland W. Brown, research associate.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
associate curator; F. L. Pearce, A. C. Murray, exhibits preparators.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, 8. H. Perry, J. P. Marble.

Associate in Paleontology: R. S. Bassler.

DEPARTMENT OF HINGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:

Frank A. Taylor, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator; William H. Dunn,
Jr., museum aide.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Marine Transportation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electricity : K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Land Transportation: S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; Edward C. Ken-
dall, associate curator; H. A. Avery, museum aide; F. L. Lewton, research
associate.

Section of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator.

Section of Wood Technology: W. N. Watkins, in charge.

Section of Manufactures: Edward C. Kendall, associate curator.

Section of Agricultural Industries: Edward C. Kendall, associate
curator.

Division of Medicine and Public Health: [Vacancy], associate curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: J. Kainen, curator; J. Harry Phillips, Jr., museum
aide.

Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.
Vir ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator.
Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, associate
curator; J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator.
Division of Civil History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator.
Division of Numismatics: S. M. Mosher, associate curator.
Division of Philately: Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
Frep M, Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
DrEAN C. ACHESON, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. Snyper, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WETMORE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
SAMUEL H. Kress.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PauL MELLON.
President. SAMUEL H. KREss.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director—Davin E. FINLeEy.
Administrator.—Harry A. McBRIDE.
General Counsel—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JOHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MAaAcGiILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—TuHomas M. BEaos.

Curator of ceramics.—P. V. GARDNER.

Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service—Mrs. Joun A. Poprr,
Exhibits preparators.—G. J. MARTIN, ROWLAND Lyon.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director.—JoHN A. POPE.

Assistant to the Director.—Burns A. STusss.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHArD ETTINGHAUSEN.
Associate in technical research. RUTHERFORD J. GETTENS,
Assistant in research.—HARoLpD P. STERN.

Research associate.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.

Honorary research associate.—Max LOoEHR.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Ix

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director. —MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Associate Director.—FRraNK H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Anthropologists —H. B. CoLuins, Jr., PHILIP DRUCKER.
Ethnologist—JoHN P. HARRINGTON.

Collaborators.—FRANCES DENSMORE, JOHN R. Swanton, A. J. WARING, JY.
Scientific illustrator.—H. G. SCHUMACHER.

INSTITUTE oF SocraL ANTHROPOLOGY.—G. M, Foster, Jr., Director.

River BASIn SurvVEYS.—F RANK H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILL1AM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.
Head Animal Keeper.—F RANK O. LOWE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoyaL B, ALDRICH.
DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH :
Chief. —WILLIAM H. Hoover.
Instrument makers.—ANDREW Kramer, D. G. Taveert, J. H. Harrison.
Research associate.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—R. B. WITHROW.
Plant physiologists.—WILLIAM H. Kein, LEONARD Pricz, V. B. ELSTaD, Mrs.
ALICE P. WITHROW.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:

ALEXANDER WETMORE, Chairman.

Mas. Gen. Donatp L. Putt, U. S. Air Force.

Rear Apo. T. S. Comps, U. S. Navy.

GROVER LOENING.

WILLIAM B. Stout.
Head curator.—Paul IX. GARBER.
Associate curator.—R. C. STROBELL.
Manager, National Air Museum Facility—W. M. MALE.
Museum aides.—STANLEY Potrer, WINTHROP S. SHAW.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—JAMES ZETEK.
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution

ALEXANDER WETMORE
For the Year Ended June 30, 1952

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Gentiemen: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its
branches during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The period covered in the present annual report has been one of
steady and progressive activity along the established lines that have
become the functions of the Smithsonian Institution as the years
since its foundation in 1846 have multiplied. Although no additional
responsibilities have been assumed beyond those entailed by the
steady increase in the national collections of history, science, and
art, in visitors to the public exhibitions, and in requests for infor-
mation and other assistance, there has been much consideration and
effort given to improvement in methods of operation and to better
coordination of our affairs. Having held administrative positions
concerned with the direction of the Smithsonian Institution since
1925, first as Assistant Secretary, and since 1945 as Secretary, I find
it of interest to examine the current status of the Institution and
its position at the present time, when I have requested release from
these responsibilities in order to be free for the scientific investigations
that have been a major activity throughout my life.

It should be stated clearly that whatever has been accomplished in
betterment in the Institution during this period of years has been
due to the combined interest and devotion of all the Institution’s per-
sonnel and not to the work of any one individual alone. The staff of
the Smithsonian throughout its modern history has been the dynamic
part of the organization, in contrast to the material holdings of land,
buildings, and collections that form its possessions. The staff, while
constantly changing in individual members, in its entirety has been
the firm foundation of the structure. The varied forces exerted in
this staff form a steadily flowing stream of effort whose force and
direction have changed from decade to decade, but whose impetus as a
whole does not slacken. It is this working group that is the heart

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of the Smithsonian Institution at any given moment in its operations.
In my quarter-century and more with the Smithsonian it has been
repeatedly impressed upon me that it has been the loyalty and spirit
and abilities of these workers that have helped most to achieve the In-
stitution’s prime purpose—“the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.”

The original endowment fund received under the will of James
Smithson, with several later additions, is held in the United States
Treasury as a permanent trust and stands as official recognition of the
position held by the Smithsonian in relation to our Nation. The
Institution has deep and increasing pride in its position as guardian
of historical and scientific treasures that belong to all who now are
citizens of our country and that, equally, belong to the generations
of the future. It is our great responsibility to maintain these hold-
ings safely, to investigate and make known their values for the public
good, and to add to them in those ways that will enhance their worth
for the increase of knowledge. This responsibility is particularly
acute in times of national emergency, as during World War II or at
the present time when many peacetime activities must give place in
the Federal budget to matters of national defense. Smithsonian
administrators would not be faithful to their trust if even during
such periods they relaxed in their efforts to assure adequate support
through public funds for safeguarding and preserving for future
generations the treasures entrusted to them by the American people.

Growth in the responsibilities of the Smithsonian since 1925 may be
better understood when it is known that the collections in its charge
have more than doubled during that time, while their value has
increased in even greater degree because they include so many
thousands of unique objects. It is not practicable to place a definite
monetary value on all these things, since for most there is no true
market in the sense of ordinary barter and sale. For many, partic-
ularly in the historical field, no real price in dollars may be set, as
their actual worth—for example, the relics of Washington, Jeffer-
son, and other national heroes—lies in the patriotic sentiment in which
they are held. It is sufficient to say that the more than 33,000,000
catalog entries now found in these collections may be valued at upward
of a billion dollars, but with the further explanation that no sum of
money, regardless of how great it might be, could ever replace these
materials should damage come to them.

Many shifts and changes in our administrative alignment have been
made for improvement in procedures, for more efficient assignment of
staff, and for better utilization of the space available to us for housing.
The result has been an increased efficiency without which we would not
be able to meet the demands now laid upon us. The scope of all

SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

Smithsonian bureaus and their constituent units is now described in
a detailed account of the work of the Institution, prepared in January
1951, which includes a survey of the duties and responsibilities that
pertain to each.

Present needs of the Smithsonian remain those that have been of
perennial pressure, namely, additional personnel, increased space for
housing, and further support for operation. All require funds if they
are to be adequately met. Through increased pay, necessary and
greatly deserved under present-day living costs, and through changes
in work hours, the annual payroll of the Institution has more than
doubled in the past 20 years. At the same time the available man
hours of service per week now actually are less. In 1942 we had
90,592 man hours available. For the same service now in 1952 (with
greatly increased work load) we may command only 20,200 man hours.
This situation is one that needs remedy without delay, or the Institu-
tion will lag decidedly in its required duties and in its services to our
people.

As for space, through careful planning we are now utilizing fully
all that is available to us. Additional buildings for the United States
National Museum and the National Air Museum, for the collections in
art, and for our research operations in natural history and other fields
are essential whenever funds may be provided. For a number of years
it has become increasingly important that a research center of consid-
erable size be built in the area outside of but reasonably near Metro-
politan Washington, to which the study collections of the National
Museum might be removed and where laboratory space would be avail-
able for our scientists. ‘The present buildings in the Mall area would
then be accessible to the public to be used wholly for exhibition. The
research area should be arranged to provide storage for the most im-
portant objects in the exhibition series, should threat of war demand
their removal to safety. It will be a great day in the history of the
Smithsonian and in the history of American science when plans for
these buildings materialize. They have been the dream of many who
believe that the Smithsonian Institution is one of the great American
traditions that not only must be preserved but must be accorded the
physical facilities to meet its obligations of leadership in this modern
age of science.

Through the income of its endowments the Smithsonian has a per-
manence in parts of its operation that it may maintain in no other
way. Its activities under most of its endowment funds are now far
too modest, since only in a few instances of special funds does it have
the income that it requires. We should look forward also to sub-
stantial growth here, to provide larger funds for research and publi-
cation and for the general maintenance of central administration.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

What lies ahead in the next century for the Smithsonian Institution
no one can safely predict. It was my privilege in 1946 to help cele-
brate the one-hundredth anniversary of the Institution’s founding,
and at that time I wrote: “The Smithsonian had a definite beginning
but has no foreseeable end. Its stated purpose knows no time or
space limits, and it will go on through the centuries, changing with
a changing world and so adjusting itself that it may fill a useful role
in the upward struggle of mankind.” It has been one of the greatest
satisfactions of my life to have served an organization with such a
prospect and with such potentialities.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
in accordance with the terms of the wil! of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without au-
thority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an
“establishment” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

No changes in personnel occurred on the Board of Regents in the
past year. The vacancy in the class of citizen regents still exists. The
roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year, June 30, 1952, was as fol-
lows: Chief Justice of the United States, Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor ;
Vice President Alben W. Barkley; members from the Senate: Walter
F. George, Clinton P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall; members from
the House of Representatives: Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys, FE. E.
Cox; citizen members: Harvey N. Davis, Arthur H. Compton, Van-
nevar Bush, Robert V. Fleming, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

On the evening of January 17, preceding the annual meeting, an
informal dinner meeting of the Board was held in the main hall of
the Smithsonian Institution, with the Chancellor, Chief Justice Vin-
son, presiding. This occasion gave opportunity for members of the
Smithsonian staff to make a fuller presentation of the scientific work
of the Institution than was practicable at the regular meeting the
next day.

The Board held its regular annual meeting in the Regents’ Room
on January 18, 1952. The Secretary presented his annual report cov-
ering the activities of the Institution and its bureaus, including the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 5

financial report of the Executive Committee, for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1951, and this was accepted by the Board. The usual reso-
lution authorized the expenditure by the Secretary of the income of
the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1953.

At the Chancellor’s suggestion, the meeting of January 18 was re-
cessed until April 9, at which time the report of the special committee
to select a successor to the Secretary was given before the full Board.
Robert V. Fleming, chairman of the special committee, presented the
resolution electing Dr. Leonard Carmichael, president of Tufts Col-
lege, Medford, Mass., as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
effective on January 1, 1953.

Dr. Wetmore, who retires from administrative duties at his own
request, will continue his scientific work with the Institution, under
the title of research associate.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 169.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1952, total $2,553,200, obligated as follows:

MBIA CeINCN be t=. sae tone ee eee ee $63, 051
United=States, National Museums ==". === 2s ee 780, 260
Bureaniof Americanyh thnolog ye sa = ae ees ee 62, 890
AStrophysicalObservatonye == + =e ee oe ey ee 116, 223
National Collection of HinevATtS=——s= ee ee 47, 265
National: Air) Museums = 62 2.1 sek oe Se Lee Bh Le eT 177, 147
Canale Zonerybiological PATeage sana ae a eee 16, 647
International Exchange Servicesoo2-- a2 a 74, 678
Maintenance and operation of buildings___.__._.__.___.____ 893, 851
Generallysernvices@ tt 2st k we eld a ee ae a 319, 084
Mistimatedssavingss2 2 So ei) ee ee ee eels 2, 104

DY OY 621) Stal te Nh AN A er a be nh te ae 2, 553, 200

In addition, $1,240,000 was appropriated to the National Gallery of
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board
of trustees; and $620,800 was provided in the District of Columbia ap-
propriation act for the operation of the National Zoological Park.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Federal agencies, as follows:

From the Department of State, from the appropriation Interna-
tional Information and Educational Activities, 1952, a total of $42,000
for the period July 1 through December 81, 1951, for the planning and
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

preparation of a series of educational exhibits in German schools and
museums, and from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs a total of
$45,705 for the period January 1 through June 30, 1952, for the opera-
tion of the Institute of Social Anthropology, including the issuance
of publications resulting from its work.

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
$157,803 for archeological projects in connection with the River Basin

Surveys.
VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings during the year
1951-52 reached an all-time high total of 3,425,987, more than half a
million more than the previous year. April 1952 was the month of
largest attendance, with 490,983 ; May 1952 was the next largest, with
461,750. Largest attendance for 1 day was 50,329 on May 381, 1952.
A summary of attendance records for the five buildings is given in
table 1. These figures do not include 3,294,569 estimated at the Na-
tional Zoological Park and 1,522,596 at the National Gallery of Art.

TABLE 1.—Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June 30,
1952

Smith- Arts and Natural Areestt
Year and month sonian Industries | History Building aed Total

Building | Building | Building of A
1951
VOL. 525500 eee 83, 251 198, 583 87,618 30, 346 9, 861 409, 659
Aesth Ce See ee 84, 690 214, 620 92, 867 31, 918 10, 714 434, 809
Septem ber-2-32s-2 > 32 ae 53, 235 125, 845 73,173 22, 563 7,052 281, 868
OctoUene as eee a ee 43, 510 104, 923 59, 341 15, 570 5, 870 229, 214
INGYVOIN DeLana oe eee 34, 001 72, 822 49, 022 12, 668 3, 872 172, 385
December s= bss ase ee 20,771 39, 956 29, 819 8, 581 2, 507 101, 634
1952
PANUARY eee Oe cee es 24, 667 60, 337 40, 026 10, 518 2,972 138, 520
Mebmuaryse = ee eee 32, 087 73, 516 48, 885 13, 230 3, 781 171, 499
March cies Soe ee 34, 723 75, 917 57, 113 15, 437 3, 992 187, 182
U0) y) eee eee ee ee ee 92, 611 245, 755 111, 754 31, 167 $, 696 490, 983
1M (fh eS ee ee es 92, 430 212, 643 118, 030 31, 559 7, 088 461, 750
June: Se 5 ee 65, 302 162, 993 86, 815 23, 839 7, 535 346, 484
DO Wile So Sie ee 661, 278 1, 587, 910 854, 463 247, 396 74, 940 3, 425, 987

During the last 4 months of the fiscal year a special record was
kept of groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian. The count
showed that 159,784 school children came in 4,289 groups, or at an
average of 37 to each group. By months the figures are: March, 420
groups, 12,066 children; April, 1,022 groups, 38,286 children; May,
2,207 groups, 85,881 children; June, 640 groups, 23,551 children. For
the 4-month period, therefore, 10.7 percent of all visitors were in this
category.

SECRETARY’S REPORT vé
NINETEENTH ANNUAL JAMES ARTHUR LECTURE ON THE SUN

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. The nine-
teenth Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building on April 3, 1952, by Rear Adm. L. O. Colbert,
director of the Washington office of the Arctic Institute of North
America, formerly Director of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.
The subject of Admiral Colbert’s address was “The Sun, the Moon,
and the Tides.” This lecture will be published in full in the General
Appendix of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution for 1952.

HALL OF NAVAL HISTORY

Special ceremonies were held on the evening of June 19, 1952, in
connection with the opening of the hall of naval history in the Arts
and Industries Building. In this new exhibit, designed and assem-
bled under the direction of Mendel L. Peterson, National Museum
curator of military and naval history, the story of American naval
development, from the privateer of the War of Independence to the
present-day battleship, is told by means of ship and other models,
paintings, prints, and original objects relating to celebrated naval
craft and leaders. Through the years collections of such material
have come to the Smithsonian. Now, for the first time, they are
exhibited as an organized whole. Outstanding ship models in the
collection, illustrating the advances from one war to another, are the
Bon Homme Richard, Constitution, Kearsage, the Olympia of Ad-
miral Dewey, the cruiser Wéchita, and the battleship Missour7.

Speakers at the opening ceremonies included Rear Adm. John B.
Heffernan, United States Navy; Dr. Remington Kellogg, Director of
the United States National Museum; and Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Instiution.

POLICING OF SMITHSONIAN BUILDINGS

On October 24, 1951, the President approved a bill passed by the
Eighty-second Congress (Public Law 206) “relating to the policing
of the buildings and grounds of the Smithsonian Institution and its
constituent bureaus.” Among other provisions, this act authorizes
the Secretary of the Institution to designate Smithsonian employees
as special policemen with power to enforce regulations and make
arrests in connection with the policing of our buildings and grounds.
This authorization places us in a firm position relative to the protec-
tion of the many thousands of visitors who come to the Institution

236639—53——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

annually and serves to safeguard the tremendously valuable materials
in our collections that by law are our responsibility.

MARY VAUX WALCOTT FUND FOR PUBLICATIONS IN BOTANY

Acting upon a proposal by the Secretary, the executive committee
of the Board of Regents during the year authorized the establishment
of the Mary Vaux Walcott Fund for Publications in Botany. This
fund, amounting to $60,000, is derived from the sales of “North Amer-
ican Wild Flowers,” the 5-volume quarto portfolio of 400 water-color
plates of wild flowers painted from nature by Mrs. Charles D. Walcott.
The plates were reproduced in color by a special process and were pub-
lished under her supervision and generous subsidy. A large number
of sets of the plates have been sold by the Institution in the 27 years
since their publication, and it seems especially fitting that the income
from the proceeds of their sale should now be used for publication by
the Smithsonian of contributions to the science of botany, in which
Mrs. Walcott had a deep interest. It is planned that the publications
issued under this fund will be principally technical in nature and will
relate to the researches of the United States National Herbarium.
They will appear from time to time in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—More than 607,000 specimens, twice as many as
last year, were received and distributed among the Museum’s six de-
partments, bringing the total catalog entries to 33,184,494. Some of
the year’s more noteworthy accessions included: In anthropology, an
eighteenth-century wampum belt of the Wyandot Indians, a collection
of Javanese puppets, and 78 Indian skeletons from burial sites on
Buggs Island in the Roanoke River, Va.; in zoology, important mam-
mals from Borneo, Alaska, and the United States, birds from Colom-
bia and Panama, reptiles and amphibians from Egypt and Borneo,
and large collections of fishes, insects, marine invertebrates, and mol-
lusks from many parts of the world; in botany, gifts of plants espe-
cially from Honduras, Colombia, Pert, Ryukyu Islands, Florida, and
Canada, and many others received in exchanges with other institu-
tions; in geology, five minerals heretofore unrepresented in the min-
eralogical collections, a collection of 250,000 fresh-water Mesozoic and
Cenozoic mollusks, and vertebrate fossils from Washington, Montana,
Wyoming, South Dakota, and North Dakota; in engineering and in-
dustries, a fanning mill used in West Virginia about 75 years ago, a
corn planter of about 1860, an 1878 oil engine, a collection of early
radio apparatus, and a series of stones and prints illustrating the mak-

SECRETARY'S REPORT 9

ing of a lithograph; and in history, a walnut chest of drawers once
owned by Jonathan Edwards, an unusual group of ship models for
the new hall of naval history, and the saddles and equine equipment
and the library of Gen. John J. Pershing.

Members of the staff conducted field work in Honduras, Dominican
Republic, Panama, Colombia, British North Borneo, Brazil, Ryukyu
Islands, México, Alaska, and many sections of the United States.
The Museum issued 27 publications during the year.

National Gallery of Art.—Visitors to the Gallery during the year
numbered 1,522,596, a slight increase over the previous year. The
Gallery received 1,891 accessions, by gift, loan, or deposit. Works of
art accepted included paintings by Winslow Homer, J. J. and J. W.
Audubon, Thomas Stephens, Tintoretto, Corot, Healy, Turner, Trum-
bull, Hogarth, Sargent, and Alvan Clark; 15 bronzes by Daumier ; and
several groups of prints and drawings. Ten special exhibits were
held at the Gallery during the year. Traveling exhibitions of prints
from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to 19 galleries and
museums in this country, and one exhibit traveled in Germany.
Exhibitions from the “Index of American Design” were shown 78
times in 20 States and the District of Columbia and also in Europe.
More than 36,000 persons attended the Gallery’s special tours and the
“Picture of the Week” talks; more than 14,000 the Sunday afternoon
lectures. ‘The Sunday evening concerts were continued. Construction
of five new galleries, begun in 1950, was completed.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion met on December 4, 1951, and accepted for the National Collection
2 oil paintings, 2 sculptures, 5 pieces of ceramics, several items of
glassware, and 1 water-color miniature on ivory. Eight miniatures
were acquired through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. Fifty-four
oil paintings by Edwin Scott were added to the Alice Pike Barney
Memorial Collection, and $5,000 was added to the Barney fund.
The Gallery held 10 special exhibits during the year. Under the
direction of Mrs. John A. Pope, a Smithsonian traveling exhibition
service was inaugurated, financed partly through the Barney fund
and partly from a grant made by the Department of State.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Purchases for the Freer collections included
Chinese bronzes, paintings, and pottery; an Egyptian bronze incense
burner; Persian metalwork; an Indian painting with Persian verse;
and a seventh-century Japanese bronze sculpture. The staff members
studied new accessions, examined objects contemplated for purchase,
and pursued their researches in oriental and Islamic art. A technical
research laboratory, with Rutherford J. Gettens in charge, was com-
pleted and began a new phase of Gallery activity—the investigation
’ of material and techniques of the artists and craftsmen represented
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

in the Freer collections. Dr. Ettinghausen continued his work abroad,
particularly in the Near East. The final number of Ars [slamica,
under Dr. Ettinghausen’s editorship, was published in August 1951.
Visitors to the Gallery numbered approximately 75,000.

Bureau of American Ethnology—Members of the Bureau staff
continued their ethnological and archeological researches, Director
Stirling on Mexican and Panamanian archeology, Dr. Collins on the
Eskimo and on the archeology of Cornwallis Island, Dr. Harrington
on the Maya language, Dr. Fenton on the Iroquois, and Dr. Drucker
on Meso-American archeology. Dr. Roberts continued as Director of
the River Basin Surveys. Since the beginning of this project 7 years
ago, 3,105 archeological sites have been located and recorded, and
578 of these have been recommended for excavation or limited testing.
This year’s excavation work covered 18 reservoir areas in 11 States,
with 22 excavating parties in the field.

The Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomouse unit of the
Bureau financed through transfer of funds from the Department of
State, carried on its field programs in Brazil, Colombia, México, and
Pert. During the year activities of the Institute were integrated
with those of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, whereby ISA an-
thropologists participated in ILAA public-health programs in Latin
America.

International Exchange Service—The International Exchange
Service is the official United States agency for the interchange of
governmental, scientific, and literary publications between this coun-
try and other nations of the world. During the past year the Ex-
change Service handled 1,001,614 packages of such publications,
weighing 825,627 pounds—9,386 packages less than last year but
36,854 pounds more. Consignments are now made to all countries
except China and Rumania. The number of sets of United States
official publications sent abroad in exchange for similar publications
of other countries is 104 (62 full and 42 partial sets). Eighty-seven
copies of the Federal Register and 94 of the Congressional Record are
also sent abroad through the Exchange Service.

National Zoological Park.—Visitors to the Zoo totaled approxi-
mately 3,300,000 for the year. At the close of the fiscal year there
were 2,675 animals in the Zoo collections, the removals during the
year (1,721) somewhat exceeding the additions (1,575). Fourteen
species of animals were received that had not previously been ex-
hibited in the National Zoological Park. Among these were an Aus-
tralian copperhead, an albino great gray kangaroo, a Bornean porcu-
pine, and a pair of MacQueen’s bustards. The United States Fish
and Wildlife Service and the United States Army Medical Unit in

> eae

SECRETARY’S REPORT Li

Malaya continued to send desirable specimens. In all, 142 creatures
were born or hatched at the Zoo—72 mammals, 55 birds, and 15
reptiles.

Astrophysical Observatory—tThe research work of the APO pro-
gressed in both of its divisions—astrophysical research and radiation
and organisms. In addition to their regular programs, both divisions
are conducting cooperative projects under contract with other Gov-
ernment agencies. Solar-radiation studies continued at the Observa-
tory’s two field stations, one at Table Mountain, Calif., and the other
at Montezuma, Chile. Five silver-disk pyrheliometers were con-
structed and furnished at cost to institutions in France, Finland, Cen-
tral Africa, Greece, and Rhode Island. The division of radiation and
organisms continued its investigations of the biochemical reactions
involved in the absorption of light energy in green plants.

National Air Museum.—Owing to the necessity of vacating all the
NAM’s storage facility at Park Ridge, Ill., space had to be found
elsewhere in order to preserve the storage collection. Through the
assistance of the National Capital Planning Commission, a plot was
made available at Suitland, Md., near Washington, D. C. Several
prefabricated buildings will be erected there to house the nearly
4,000 specimens in the storage collection until the permanent National
Air Museum Building is provided. Accessions for the year brought
additions to many phases of the aeronautical collection, including
full-sized aircraft, engines, instruments, experimental and _ scale-
model aircraft, parachutes, and trophies. In all, 110 specimens from
21 sources, comprising 30 separate accessions, were received during
the year. These are listed in the full report of the Museum (Appen-
dix 9,p.136). Members of the staff made special surveys for materials
desirable for the collections. As space and facilities permitted, im-
provements were made in the public exhibits in the Arts and Indus-
tries and Aircraft Buildings.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—The new laboratory building begun
last year at the Barro Colorado Island station was completed. Dur-
ing the year, 602 visitors came to the island; 48 of these were scientists
who used the facilities of the island to carry on studies in various bio-
logical fields. One such study, carried on over a period of years, by
Dr. Eugene Eisenmann, resulted during the year in the publication
“Annotated List of Birds of Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal
Zone,” issued by the Smithsonian Institution. This lists 306 species.
Other than birds, seven species of vertebrate animals have been added
to the known fauna of the area since the list was published in the 1950
report—two mammals, four reptiles, and one amphibian—making in
all 486 vertebrate forms known from the island.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
PUBLICATIONS

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are in two cate-
gories—those issued from federally appropriated funds (particularly
the publications of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and the Smithsonian Report) and those issued under in-
come from the Institution’s various endowment funds (Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, publications of the Freer Gallery of Art,
and special publications). Eight regular series are issued, plus six
others that appear less frequently. Publications are distributed free
to more than a thousand libraries, both in this country and abroad, as
well as to a large list of educational and scientific organizations and
specialists in various fields. The Smithsonian publications program is
a major part in the Institution’s endeavor to fulfill the diffusion-of-
knowledge function prescribed by its founder. In all, 144,166 copies
of Smithsonian publications were distributed during the year.

Seventy-six publications appeared under the Smithsonian imprint
during the year. Outstanding among these were: “Biological Investi-
gations in Mexico,” by Edward A. Goldman; “Middle Cambrian
Stratigraphy and Faunas of the Canadian Rocky Mountains,” by
Franco Rasetti; “The Butterflies of Virginia,” by Austin H. and Leila
F. Clark; “The Mysidacea of the United States National Museum,” by
Walter M .Tattersall; and “Symposium on Local Diversity in Iroquois
Culture,” edited by William N. Fenton. A complete list of the year’s
publications will be found in the report of the chief of the editorial
division, Appendix 12.

Smithsonian tables—There were also issued two numbers in the
Institution’s series of tables—the sixth revised edition of the Smith-
sonian Meteorological Tables, compiled by Robert J. List, of the United
States Weather Bureau; and Smithsonian Logarithmic Tables, pre-
pared by G. W. Spenceley, Rheba M. Spenceley, and E. R. Epperson,
of Miami (Ohio) University, presenting 23-decimal-place values of
common and natural logarithms. In addition, the ninth revised edi-
tion of the Smithsonian Physical Tables, compiled by W. E. Forsythe,
of Cleveland, was partly in galley proof at the end of the year.

First Ladies’ Gowns.—A\so in press at the close of the fiscal year was
a book on “The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House,” by
Margaret W. Brown, National Museum historian. The book (8 x 10
inches in size) describes this popular collection of costumes as they are
displayed in the Arts and Industries Building. Each of the 35 gowns
of the First Ladies, from Martha Washington to Eleanor Roosevelt,
is reproduced in full color from color photographs. There are also
brief biographies and portraits of the First Ladies. Because of the
high cost of producing the volume, it will not be sent free to the

SECRETARY’S REPORT 13

Institution’s regular mailing lists but will be on sale in Smithsonian
buildings in Washington and may also be purchased by mail.

LIBRARY

A major organizational change in the Smithsonian library was
effected during the year when the largest of its branches, the National
Museum library, was physically merged with the general library for-
merly located in the Smithsonian Building, and all major library
functions were consolidated. The consolidated library and offices are
housed in the Natural History Building. The library received 60,512
publications during the year, mostly by gifts and through exchanges
with other institutions and organizations. Noteworthy among the
gifts were more than a thousand volumes from the library of the late
Gen. John J. Pershing and more than 1,500 publications on stamps
from Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., National Museum curator of philately.
Nearly 23,000 publications were transferred to the Library of Con-
gress, about 8,000 to the Army Medical Library, and 425 to other
Government libraries. From the library’s huge collection of dupli-
cates, 11,420 pieces were sent to the United States Book Exchange.
At the close of the year the library’s holdings totaled 938,740 volumes,
including 584,213 in the Smithsonian deposit at the Library of Con-
gress but exclusive of incomplete volumes of serials and separates
and reprints from serials.
APPENDIX 1

Report on the United States National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1952:

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Construction was completed on the conversion of the southwest
court in the Arts and Industries Building to a modern storage facility,
providing 8,000 square feet of space on the ground, mezzanine, second,
and third floors. Outside contracts amounting to $13,582 were let
for the construction of wooden frames for storage cases and drawers.
The frames of the storage cases will be covered with sheets of thin
steel by the Institution’s own mechanics.

COLLECTIONS

During the year 607,354 specimens (approximately twice as many
as last year) were added to the national collections and distributed
among the six departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,852; zoology,
251,290; botany, 62,476; geology, 279,968; engineering and industries,
1,638; and history, 7,180. Most of the accessions were acquired as
gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government departments
and agencies. The complete report on the Museum, published as a
separate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions,
of which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries
in all departments now total 33,184,494.

Anthropology—A well-documented symbolic wampum belt, which
had served as a token of peace and friendship after the eighteenth-
century wars between the Seneca and Wyandot (Huron) Indians,
was presented by Howard W. Elkinton. An outstanding addition
to the archeological collection is the gift by Robert C. Cook of a
carved and painted wooden cup, which was referred to as a kero
(wooden beer cup) by the Inca Indians.

By a bequest from the late Mrs. Emily V. Taylor, the Museum re-
ceived a Philadelphia high chest or highboy of unusual design and
workmanship of the period 1760-70. A recent noteworthy gift
from Mr. and Mrs. Robert ©. Pierson, Jr., consists of a complete

14

SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

miniature theater set of 130 appurtenances of the Javanese puppet
show, wayang, which they obtained from a puppet master in the
Sundanese village of Tjiawi, West Java. Mrs. Hoffman Philip gave
a collection of religious objects, weapons, jewelry of silver filigree,
and accessories of dress, obtained in Abyssinia by her husband, the
late Hoffman Philip, while in the diplomatic service. John Smithson
and John Smithson, Jr., presented a George II silver tankard, a George
III basting spoon, a traveler’s silver wine cup, and two English
silver luster teapots.

By transfer from River Basin Surveys, the division of physical
anthropology received 78 Indian skeletons selected from 106 burials
on Buggs Island in the Roanoke River, near Clarksville, Va. This
burial area will be inundated when the dam for the reservoir is com-
pleted.

Zoology.—Received during the year were more than 251,000 zool-
ogical specimens, obtained in Alaska, Algeria, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan,
Arabia, Assam, Australia, Belgian Congo, Bolivia, Borneo, Canada,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Egypt, French West Africa, Gilbert
Islands, Japan, Manchuria, Martinique, México, Mozambique, North-
ern Rhodesia, Panamaé, Philippines, Southern Rhodesia, Turkey,
United States, and Venezuela.

The fishery investigations of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service vessel Oregon in the Gulf of Mexico, under the leadership of
Stewart Springer, resulted in the transfer to the Museum of im-
portant and diverse collections of fishes, crustaceans, and other marine
invertebrates from the deeper waters of the gulf.

An important accession of 579 mammals, including many forms
previously not represented in the collection, from Mount Kinabalu,
northern Borneo, was received by transfer from the Army Medical
Service Graduate School. With the aid of funds furnished by the
Office of Naval Research, Dr. Henry W. Setzer of the Museum staff
obtained 141 mammals along the Arctic slope of Alaska. Charles O.
Handley, Jr., presented nearly 600 mammals, chiefly from the eastern
United States. Several shipments of mammals, totaling 133 speci-
mens, were received from Dr. W. L. Jellison, of the Rocky Mountain
Laboratory, United States Public Health Service. A collection of
183 mammals from Labrador was purchased from Dana P. Snyder
under the income from the Spencer Fullerton Baird fund. The
Biological Surveys collection was increased by 685 specimens, includ-
ing a series of Alaskan sea otters, of which a family group will be used
in the preparation of a habitat group for display in the Natural
History Building.

Ornithological field work in northern Colombia by M. A. Carriker,
Jr., financed for several years by the income from the W. L. Abbott
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

fund, came to a close during the past year. The Abbott fund also
financed in part the continuance of the Panamanian ornithological
survey by Dr. A. Wetmore and his assistant, W. M. Perrygo. The
Colombian collection comprised 1,073 bird skins, 9 skeletons, and 8
eggs; the Panamanian, 675 skins, 9 skeletons, 5 alcoholics, 9 eggs,
and 1nest. Worthy of mention this year are the 379 bird skins from
Mozambique received from Donald W. Lamm, the gift of 675 skins
of birds from Colombia by Father Antonio Olivares, and the presenta-
tion by the Musée du Congo Belge, Tervueren, of 2 specimens of the
Congo peacock, Afropavo congensis. The KE. J. Brown bequest pro-
vided funds for the purchase of 60 bird skins from the Algerian
Sahara. From the Arctic Health Research Center the Museum re-
ceived by transfer 302 skins of birds from northern Alaska which
had been collected by Dr. Laurence Irving and his assistants.

A large collection, comprising 1,165 reptiles and amphibians col-
lected by Dr. R. E. Kuntz in Egypt and adjoining countries, was
received from the Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3, and 75 reptiles
and amphibians from Mount Kinabalu, northern Borneo, were trans-
ferred to the Museum from the Army Medical Service Graduate
School. Types and paratypes of new forms of salamander, toad, and
snake were received, respectively, from M. B. Mittleman, Ottys San-
ders, and W. Auffenberg.

The generous gift of 16,417 fishes from eastern United States by
Dr. E. A. Lachner, associate curator, represents the largest single
accession received by the division of fishes during the year. Dr.
Lachner, with the assistance of William T. Leapley, also obtained
more than 15,000 fishes, as well as crustaceans, insects, amphibians, and
reptiles, in the southeastern States. As exchanges there were ob-
tained from the Museum of Comparative Zoology, through William
C. Schroeder, 104 holotypes, cotypes, and paratypes of fishes; from
Dr. George Moore, Oklahoma A. & M. College, 5,115 named fresh-
water fishes from the Arkansas and Red Rivers; from Dr. J. J.
Hoedeman, Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam, 11 paratypes of 3 West
Indian species; from Dr. N. B. Marshall, British Museum of Natural
History, 5 paratypes; and from Drs. J. Béhlke and John C. Briggs, of
Stanford University, 7 paratypes of new species of fishes being de-
scribed by them. Dr. Clark Hubbs, University of Texas, sent a gift
of 88 fishes, and Cecil Miles, Ministeria de Agricultura, Bogota,
Colombia, donated the holotype of a new pomadasid fish from the
Colombian Caribbean. Through Stewart Springer, Harvey R. Bullis,
Jr., Isaac Ginsburg, and Dayton Lee Alverson, the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service transferred 1,154 fishes this fiscal year. Dr.
H. B. Goodrich, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., returned

SECRETARY'S REPORT 17

about 1,400 fish specimens in their original jars which were sent to
Wesleyan University in the early 1880’s by Dr. G. Brown Goode.

The division of insects received as its most important accession the
collection of O. L. Cartwright of approximately 6,000 miscellaneous
insects, a large portion of which was made on the grounds of the
Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Costa Rica. An-
other noteworthy accession comprised about 4,300 Neotropical bugs
which were donated by Dr. Luis F. Martorell, of the agricultural
experiment station, University of Puerto Rico, and Dr. John S. Cald-
well, of Centerville, Ohio. By transfer from the Department of Agri-
culture the division acquired nearly 2,000 insects from Alaska, collected
by Dr. R. I. Sailer.

As gifts, the division of marine invertebrates received more than
10,979 specimens of barnacles and other marine invertebrates, as well
as publications, notes, and lantern slides from the collections of the
late Dr. J. Paul Visscher, presented by Mrs. J. Paul Visscher and
children, Cleveland, Ohio; and from Dr. Stillman Wright, Washing-
ton, D. C., more than 533 lots of copepods and other fresh-water plank-
ton from South America. Dr. E. A. Lachner collected for the Museum
947 crayfishes and 2 shrimps from the southern United States.
Through David C. Nutt, the Museum received 1,887 specimens of
miscellaneous marine invertebrates collected by the Blue Dolphin
Expedition along the coast of Labrador. As exchanges, through
Dr. H. B. Goodrich there were added to the collections more than 2,141
specimens of marine invertebrates from Wesleyan University; and
from the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Holland,
through Dr. L. B. Holthuis, 10 paratypes of crayfishes from New
Guinea, and 4 paratypes and 19 other specimens of fresh-water
shrimps from Surinam. By transfer, more than 1,410 miscellaneous
invertebrates were acquired from the United States Navy Arctic
Research Laboratory, through J. Bohlke.

The largest accession received this fiscal year in the division of
mollusks consisted of 22,000 specimens collected by Dr. Joseph P. E.
Morrison in the area from Pennsylvania to Virginia, west to Missouri.
Among the outstanding gifts received were 1,380 marine mollusks,
largely from western Australia, presented by Mr. and Mrs. James A.
Grigg ; 264 marine mollusks from the Red Sea, a gift from Sozon Vati-
kiotis ; 55 specimens of rare Japanese marine mollusks from the Kyoto
University through Dr. Tadashige Habe. There were received in
exchanges from the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1,543 mollusks; and from the Institut Frangais d’Afrique
Noire of Dakar, French West Africa, 169 marine mollusks. Note-
worthy also was a transfer of several rare shells from the Gulf of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Mexico by the Fish and Wildlife Service through Stewart Springer
and Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.

The most outstanding accession of echinoderms comprised 26 speci-
mens from the Gulf of Mexico received by transfer from the Fish and
Wildlife Service through Stewart Springer.

Botany.—Jason R. Swallen, head curator of the department, col-
lected 1,764 grasses in Honduras; Dr. E. H. Walker obtained 6,356
plants in the Ryukyu Islands and Japan on his botanical survey of
Okinawa and adjacent islands ; 232 miscellaneous specimens from Min-
nesota and California were collected for the Museum by C. V. Morton;
and KE. P. Killip added to the collections 1,367 specimens, mostly from
the Florida Keys and Cuba. Gifts included 1,419 specimens from the
Arctic Institute of North America, collected by L. A. Spetzman in
Alaska; 1,436 specimens from the Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Perit, collected by Dr. Ramon Ferreyra; 1,133 plants of
Florida from the Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid, Fla., col-
lected by L. J. Brass; Oscar L. Haught, Littleton, W. Va., presented
1,494 specimens of Colombian plants, representing the most recent
results of his productive field work in South America. In exchange,
2,072 specimens, mostly phanerogams and cryptogams of unusual his-
torical interest were received from the Conservatoire et Jardin Botan-
iques, Geneva, Switzerland ; 1,137 miscellaneous Canadian plants from
the Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; 800 plants from the
New York Botanical Garden, collected in Nyasaland by L. J. Brass;
982 specimens from the University of California collected by Annie
M. Alexander and Louise Kellogg; 659 specimens from V. L. Kamarov,
of the Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, representing various collections from west-
ern Siberia; and 515 plants from the Instituto de Botdnico of the
Universidad Nacional de Tucuman, Argentina, collected in Patagonia
by H. Sleumer. The National Arboretum transferred to the Museum
567 specimens from Colombia and Ecuador.

Geology.—F ive new minerals not formerly represented in the miner-
alogical collections were received as gifts and three as exchanges.

The Roebling bequest provided funds for the purchase of a large
gem spodumene crystal from Brazil, a fine topaz crystal from Colo-
rado, and several etched masses of gem-quality beryl from Brazil. A
pink octahedron of fluorite on smoky quartz from Switzerland,
wolframite on cassiterite from Bolivia, and vanadinite from México
were purchased under the Canfield fund. A 53.8-carat spessartite
garnet from Brazil was purchased under the Chamberlain fund for
the gem collection. Mrs. C. Drage, in memory of her father, Dr. Frank
Wigglesworth Clarke, for many years honorary curator of minerals in
this Museum, presented a fine cat’s-eye chrysoberyl from Ceylon.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

Dr. Stuart H. Perry donated five meteorites. Of these, three from
the following localities are new to the Museum collections: Dayton,
Ohio; Loreta, Baja California; and Keen Mountain, Va.

A rare Japanese rock, miharaite, was received in exchange from the
National Science Museum, Tokyo, Japan.

Important accessions were received as gifts, exchanges, or transfers
by the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, includ-
ing 75 type specimens of Foraminifera from Trinidad from Dr. P.
Bronnimann; the types of 14 Cretaceous Foraminifera and 39 Paleo-
cene Radiolaria from Dr. D. L. Frizzell; 58 type Foraminifera from
the Lower Cretaceous of Algeria from Dr. A. ten Dam; 51 types of
Devonian ostracods from Iowa from Lee B. Gibson; and 90 types of
Mississippian crinoids from Dr. L. R. Laudon.

During the year 288 crinoids, including a number of types, were
purchased under the Springer fund from Harrell L. Strimple. Income
from the Walcott fund provided funds for paleontological field work
which resulted in considerable collections from Alabama, Ohio, Penn-
sylvania, southern Appalachians, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.

Transfers from the United States Geological Survey include 1,800
types of Ozarkian and Canadian cephalopods described by A. K.
Miller, Dr. E. O. Ulrich, and others; and 2 additional large lots of
types of cephalopods. The Office of Naval Research transferred
approximately 250,000 fresh-water Mesozoic and Cenozoic mollusks
collected by Dr. T. C. Yen.

By exchange the Museum acquired Foraminifera from Algeria,
Aruba Island, Estonia, Gotland, Germany, Austria, and Japan, as well
as invertebrate fossils from Germany, Holland, Sicily, Australia,
Tasmania, and Canada.

A representative collection of Oligocene and Miocene mammals from
the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana, a Cretaceous mosasaur
from South Dakota, and a Paleocene pantolambdid from North Da-
kota were included in the collections obtained by Dr. T. E. White and
transferred by the River Basin Surveys. Significant collections trans-
ferred by the United States Geological Survey included fish remains
from the Paran4 Basin of Brazil, mastodont and other remains from
the Ringold formation in Washington, and a variety of fossils from
Eocene and Oligocene localities in Wyoming and Montana. Paleon-
tological field work by Dr. C. L. Gazin under the Walcott fund
resulted in the collection of nearly 270 small mammals in several lower
Eocene and lower Oligocene deposits of western Wyoming.

Engineering and industries—Two examples ot labor-saving ma-
chines that served the farmer during the nineteenth century were
received as gifts. One of these, a crank-operated fanning mill for
separating chaff from grain and hulls from beans, which was used in
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

West Virginia about 75 years ago, was received from Arden Wilson.
The other, a 2-row corn planter dated about 1860, was presented by
Warren Hammond. A beautiful round tablecloth, 10 feet 10 inches
in diameter, made of linen eyelet lace and hand-made filet medallions,
was acquired as a bequest from Lena L. Jones. Eight pieces of
American embroidery and drawn work of the eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries were presented by Mrs. Helen F. McMickle. The
United States Forest Products Laboratories transferred to the section
of wood technology 17 woods from eastern United States and México
and 8 new wood products resulting from laboratory research. Joseph
L. Stearns presented 25 woods from Indochina.

An oil engine built before 1878 by George B. Brayton, American in-
ventor and manufacturer, was presented by Brown University at the
suggestion of Professor Emeritus William H. Kenerson. The en-
gine, which was purchased by the university to drive an arc-light dy-
namo, is a 1-cylinder kerosene beam engine weighing about 1,500
pounds. Stephen C. Van Fleet presented a collection of early radio
apparatus, including a complete 10-watt transmitter of 1922-23, a
Jenkins Radiovisor of 1930, and a See-All Television Scanner.

Russell T. Limbach made a series of stones and prints to illustrate
the making of a lithograph. Several notable prints, including two
fifteenth-century niello prints, “Christ on the Cross” and “Portrait of
a Pope,” were purchased through the Dahlgreen fund. The section of
photography received from Dr. Lowrain McCrea his original cyto-
scopecamera. Additions to the print collection include “Awakening,”
an engraving by Gabor Peterdi, and “Furnace,” a wood engraving by
Charles Quest, both purchased under the Dahlgreen fund, and “Win-
ter,” a lithograph by Russell T. Limbach, the gift of the artist. Fif-
teen prints by Wood Whitesell and 14 prints by A. Aubrey Bodine
were presented by the artists for the photographic print collection. A
keratometer or opthalmometer designed to measure the amount of
corneal astigmatism was received from Dr. Arthur O. Morton.

History.—A walnut chest of drawers once owned by Jonathan Ed-
wards, New England scholar and theologian (1703-1758), came as a
gift from Louise Taylor Andrews to the division of civil history.

During the year an unusual group of ship models, including the Bon
Homme Richard, frigate Constitution, sloop Kearsarge, cruiser Olym-
pia, cruiser Brooklyn, destroyer Manley, and heavy cruiser Wichita
were transferred by the Department of the Navy for incorporation in
the hall of naval history.

As a bequest, the division of military history received the saddles
and horse equipment of Gen. John J. Pershing, and his son, Francis
Warren Pershing, presented the General’s library comprising some
1,800 volumes.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

The heirs of Edward C. Tarbell (1862-1938) gave 12 medals, which
had been awarded to this American artist, to the division of numis-
matics. The Reverend Hugh Miller collection of 544 oriental coins
and 110 Korean amulets was received as a transfer from the Treasury
Department.

The philatelic collections were increased during the year by gifts
from the Universal Postal Union, the United States Post Office De-
partment, and agencies of other governments. The dies of George
F’. Nesbitt & Co. (1853-70) which were used in the production of early
United States envelopes were presented by B. H. Homan, Jr., of New
York City. The library of this division was increased by important
gifts from the Essay-Proof Society, the Bureau Issues Association, and
Scott Publications, Inc.

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK

Through the cooperation of the National Geographic Society and
the United States Air Force, Frank M. Setzler made a survey of the
human and animal effigies located along the Colorado River near the
towns of Blythe and Ripley, Calif., and near Topock, Ariz. During
the year Dr. W. W. Taylor, Jr., directed six trips for the prehistoric
Pueblo ecology survey in the Four Corners district of Arizona, Utah,
Colorado, and New Mexico. As the representative of the Smithsonian
Institution, H. W. Krieger attended the Fifth Interamerican Congress
of Municipal History at Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic, and
subsequently revisited and examined the site of the first planned set-
tlement in the New World, which had been established by Christopher
Columbus in December 1498, on his second voyage, at La Isabella. A
Neosha grant enabled John C. Ewers to continue his field studies of
Blackfoot crafts on reservations in Alberta, Canada, and Montana.
Dr. Waldo R. Wedel was detailed to the Smithsonian River Basin Sur-
veys for an archeological field investigation of the Oahe Reservoir area
along the Missouri River in Stanley County, S. Dak.

Field work of recent years on the distribution and variation of the
bird life of the Republic of Panama, by Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
Secretary, assisted by Watson M. Perrygo, of the United States Na-
tional Museum, was continued during February and March. Follow-
ing several days occupied with business matters relating to the Canal
Zone Biological Area, Dr. Wetmore crossed to the Caribbean side of
the Isthmus where his field outfit, through the cooperation of the
United States Air Force at Albrook Field, was transported by truck
to the road end at the mouth of the Rio Salud, west of the Canal Zone.
Here porters were hired for transport along the beach trail to the
mouth of the Rio Indio in the western edge of the Province of Coldén.
’ The Rio Indio is one of the longest rivers in western Panama, as it
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

heads in the mountains to the north of El Valle de Anton, where col-
lections were made on the headwaters last year. Field work begun
on February 14 covered the coastal area inland to Chilar, and on
February 21 the party moved inland to the head of canoe navigation
at El Uracillo in northern Coclé Province. After two weeks’ work
there, and a further week at the mouth of the river, work terminated
on March 12.

The region is still one of forest, though clearing and cultivation are
going forward rapidly. Vegetation was heavy, and although this
was the dry season there were daily rains except in the immediate
area of the coast. The collections obtained give much valuable data
on distribution, particularly since the region has been unknown
ornithologically.

Following this, the party worked from March 14 to 24 on Taboga
Island, opposite the Pacific end of the Panama Canal, a region as dry
as the Caribbean area was humid. The avifauna is extremely limited
but has yielded interesting and unexpected information that will be
embodied in a short paper covering Taboga and the adjacent islands
of Taboguilla and Urava, to be published during next fiscal year in
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

The ornithological survey of Colombia, carried on for several years
through M. A. Carriker, Jr., opened this season at the end of January
in the southern part of the republic near Puracé. Operations in the
main covered regions accessible from Popayan, with one excursion to
the lowland areas in the Territory of Caqueta. The work has been
highly successful, and this season completes the survey. The speci-
mens obtained this year from the Departments of Cauca and Huila
will be especially important in assistance in the study of the earlier
collections from farther north.

The detail of Dr. David H. Johnson to the Army Medical Service
Graduate School research unit, engaged in a study of mammalian and
other hosts involved in the transmission of scrub typhus in the vicinity
of Mount Kinabalu, British North Borneo, was continued from June
to August 1951. The ecological survey of the mammals of the Arctic
slope of Alaska, commenced by Dr. Henry W. Setzer under a coopera-
tive arrangement with the Arctic Research Laboratory, Office of Naval
Research, Point Barrow, Alaska, was concluded in August 1951.
Charles O. Handley, Jr., in continuation of his studies on the mammals
of eastern United States, especially of the southern Appalachian high-
lands, conducted field work in the Great Smoky Mountains National
Park during April 1952. On June 15, 1952, Mr. Handley sailed from
New York as a member of an expedition, sponsored and led by
Laurence K. Marshall, of Cambridge, Mass., which will be engaged

SECRETARY'S REPORT 23

in anthropological and zoological field work over a period of several
months in the Kalahari Desert region of South-West Africa.

During April 1952, Dr. E. A. Lachner and William T. Leapley in-
vestigated the ecology and life history of fresh-water fishes in the
streams draining the mountain and Piedmont plateau sections of the
Atlantic slope from Virginia southward to Georgia and thence west-
ward in the streams of the Gulf coast drainage to Alabama. After
crossing the Mississippi flatlands, field work was continued in the
river systems of northeastern Texas and Oklahoma. On the return
trip collections were made in the streams of the Ozark uplands in
Arkansas and also in those of Kentucky. <A collecting trip which
extended from near Shreveport, La., to Kerrville and Laredo, Tex.,
and thence down the Rio Grande Valley to Padre Island and eastward
along the Gulf coast, to procure insects prevalent only in the fall
months, was made by Oscar L. Cartwright during September—October
1951. At the request of the Pacific Science Board, National Research
Council, Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison of the division of mollusks was
detailed early in June 1952 to make an ecological survey of Raroia
Atoll in the Tuamotu Islands.

From February to May 1952, Dr. Lyman B. Smith, through the
cooperation of the Rockefeller Foundation and various Brazilian
agencies, notably the Servigo Nacional de Malaria, the Herbario
“Barbosa Rodrigues,” the Museu Nacional, the Jardin Botanico do
Rio de Janeiro, and the Instituto de Botanico do Sao Paulo, carried
on a field study of the relation of the Bromeliaceae to malarial control
in eastern Brazil between Para and Santa Catarina. Dr. Egbert H.
Walker returned to Washington, D. C., on September 30, 1951, after
the completion of the botanical field work on the Ryukyu Islands spon-
sored by the Pacific Science Board, National Research Council. In
October 1951, Jason R. Swallen arrived in Honduras where, as the
guest of the Escuela Agricola Panamericana, he was provided trans-
portation that enabled him to collect grasses in the pine forests, open
grasslands, and cloud forests, principally in the Departments of
Morazan and El Paraiso.

During the year seven field trips were made for the purpose of col-
lecting fossils and studying geological strata. A. L. Bowsher and
William T. Allen, with the assistance of members of the staff of the
New Mexico Bureau of Mines, assembled invertebrate fossils from the
Mississippian, Pennsylvanian, and Permian strata in the Sacramento
Mountains, N. Mex. In the latter half of October, Dr. G. A. Cooper
joined Dr. B. N. Cooper, of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, in a
study of the facies relationships of nonmarine Ordovician beds in the
southern Appalachians. Late in October 1951, A. L. Bowsher accom-

236639—53 8
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

panied Dr. Edwin Kirk, of the United States Geological Survey, to
Alabama and Tennessee to obtain Mississippian crinoids. Dr. A. R.
Loeblich, Jr., secured foraminiferal samples from the uppermost
Lower Cretaceous and basal Upper Cretaceous beds in northern Texas.
Mississippian and Pennsylvanian invertebrate fossils were collected
in northern Ohio and western Pennsylvania by A. L. Bowsher and
William T. Allen in April 1952. Dr. C. L. Gazin continued his investi-
gation, during the summer of 1951, of the mammalian faunal horizons
of the lower Eocene Knight formation in the Green River or Bridger
basins of southwestern Wyoming and the lower Oligocene deposits in
the Wind River basin. During October 1951, Dr. David H. Dunkle
examined briefly reported occurrences of Cretaceous fishes at Xilitla,
San Luis Potosi, and Tlaxiaco, Oaxaca, México.

A grant of funds from Edwin A. Link, of Binghamton, N. Y., en-
abled Mendel L. Peterson to join Mr. Link at Marathon, Fla., and
participate in a survey of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Spanish
and British ships which had been wrecked on the reefs between
Tavernier Key and Vaca Key, and on West Sambo Reef lying off Key
West. The 65-ton diesel-powered boat, Sea Diver, owned and equip-
ped by Mr. Link for this survey, afforded a base for diving operations.
Cannon barrels and balls, iron hull fittings, iron nails, cast-iron ingots,
and fragments of wood hulls were recovered from the wrecks on these
reefs.

VISITORS

During the fiscal year 1952 there were 3,103,651 visitors to the
Museum buildings, an increase of 486,425 over the attendance for
1951. The average daily number of visitors was 8,767. On one day,
May 381, 1952, 50,329 visitors were recorded. Attendance records for
the three buildings show the following numbers of visitors: Smith-
sonian Building, 661,278; Arts and Industries Building, 1,587,910;
and Natural History Building, 854,463. April 1952 was the month
of the largest attendance with 450,120 visitors; May 1952 was the next
largest with 423,108; and August 1951 was third with 392,177. For
the last 4 months of the fiscal year, March to June inclusive, a record
was kept of groups of school children visiting the Museum buildings.
During this 4-month interval, 159,784 children in 4,289 groups were
recorded.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Dr. Paul L. Illg, associate curator, division of marine invertebrates,
resigned on March 18, 1952, to accept a position in the department
of zoology of the University of Washington at Seattle. On Octo-
ber 19, 1951, Eugene J. Fite, assistant curator, division of graphic

SECRETARY'S REPORT 25

arts, transferred to the Federal Security Agency. George S. Thomas,
associate curator, division of medicine and public health, resigned
August 31, 1951, to enter private business. The vacancy in the section
of manufactures and agricultural industries was filled on Septem-
ber 17, 1951, by the appointment of Edward C. Kendall as associate
curator.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineton Ketxoce, Director.
Dr. A. Wetmore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2

Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sm: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the fifteenth annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1952. This report is made pursuant to the
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees con-
tinuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952, were
Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester
Dale, and Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual meet-
ing on May 6, 1952. Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and
Ferdinand Lammot Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing
year. Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as
Advisor to the Board.

All the executive officers of the Gallery continued in office during
the year:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.
David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting May 6, 1952, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.
Paul Mellon.

26

SECRETARY'S REPORT par
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, John W. Snyder, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Chester Dale.

Paul Mellon.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman.
Duncan Phillips,

Chester Dale.

Paul Mellon.

David H. Finley.

At the annual meeting on May 6, 1952, the Board of Trustees pro-
posed an amendment to section 5, article VI of the bylaws of the
Trustees’ “Constitution of Acquisitions Committee” reducing the num-
ber of ex officio members from three to two and increasing the elected
members from two to three. The amendment provided further that
the Vice President of the Gallery shall be Chairman of the Acquisi-
tions Committee. On June 10, 1952, the Board of Trustees adopted
the proposed amendment and elected Paul Mellon to fill the vacancy
existing on the Committee as the result of the amendment.

PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1952, the Government employees on the staff of the
National Gallery of Art numbered 301, as compared with 308 em-
ployees as of June 30,1951. The United States Civil Service regula-
tions govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated
public funds.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952, the Congress of the United
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art $1,240,000 to be
used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the
Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired by the Board
of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident thereto as
authorized by section 4 (a) of Public Resolution 14, Seventy-fifth
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). This
sum includes the regular appropriation of $1,154,000 and a supple-
mental appropriation of $86,000. The supplemental appropriation
was necessitated by increased pay costs authorized by Public Law 201,
Eighty-second Congress, approved October 24, 1951.
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum-
brances were incurred:

Personal’ servicesi.252--2=-=-2. 52-4 = eee $1, 096, 425. 00
Printinesand reproduction == saan eee 4, 528. 75
Supplies, equipment, ct@o eee 137, 863. 11
Wneblicateds balances sans eee 1, 183. 14

TNotylts = 2330. Se Be a ee ee 1, 240, 000. 00

ATTENDANCE

During the fiscal year 1952 there were 1,522,596 visitors to the Gal-
lery, an average daily attendance of about 4,183. This compares with
1,503,148 visitors during 1951, an increase of 19,448. Since March 17,
1941, when the Gallery was opened to the public, to June 30, 1952, there
have been 20,284,018 visitors.

ACCESSIONS

During the fiscal year the Gallery received 1,891 accessions as gifts,
loans, or deposits. Most of the paintings and a number of the prints
were placed on exhibition.

GIFTS
PAINTINGS

The Board of Trustees on July 11, 1951, accepted two paintings:
“Right and Left” by Winslow Homer and “John James Audubon” by
John Woodhouse Audubon, both gifts from the Avalon Foundation.
On the same date the Board accepted from E. J. L. Hallstrom 10 paint-
ings by Audubon: Farmyard Fowls, Black-footed Ferret, Bull, Arctic
Hare, Weasel, Long-tailed Red Fox, Sharp-tailed Sparrow, Orchard
Oriole, Yellow Warbler, and Arctic Three-toed Woodpecker. On
August 24 the Board accepted for a National Portrait Gallery from
an anonymous donor the portrait of Gen. George C. Marshall by
Thomas Stephens. On December 5 the Board of Trustees accepted
“Portrait of a Man and Boy” by Tintoretto, the gift of Samuel L.
Fuller, and “Gypsy Girl with Mandolin” by Corot, the gift of Count
Pecci-Blunt. Also on this date the Board accepted a portrait of John
Cardinal McCloskey by Healy from Miss Elizabeth McCloskey
Cleary. On December 17 the Board accepted the painting “Rape of
Proserpine” by Turner from Mrs. Watson B. Dickerman. On Janu-
ary 15, 1952, the Board accepted from the Avalon Foundation the
portrait of Alexander Hamilton by Trumbull. The Board accepted
on May 6 the gift of two paintings from Duncan Phillips: “Singing
Party” by Hogarth and “Allegorical Landscape” by a follower of Par-
migianino. On this same date the Board received the portrait of Mrs.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

Mathilde Townsend Welles by Sargent, the bequest of Mrs. Welles.
The Board received two portraits by Alvan Clark, “Thomas Whitte-
more” and “Lovice C. Whittemore,” from the Thomas Whittemore
estate.
SCULPTURE
On December 5, 1952, the Board of Trustees accepted from Lessing
J. Rosenwald a group of 15 bronzes by Daumier.

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

On July 11, 1951, the Board of Trustees accepted from E. J. L.
Hallstrom 18 miscellaneous prints by Audubon. On October 16 the
Board accepted from Lessing J. Rosenwald a group of 244 prints and
drawings and a group of 1,006 historical portrait prints, to be added to
his gift to the Gallery. On the same date the Board accepted from
Mrs. Andrew Carey 23 prints and drawings, and from Paul Rosenberg
a drawing for the painting “Mme. Moitessier” by Ingres. The Board
on December 5 accepted 202 prints and drawings from Lessing J.
Rosenwald, and on December 17 the Board approved the addition of 41
prints by Alphonse Legros to the gift of George Matthew Adams.

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

On October 16, 1951, the Board of Trustees accepted the offer of Les-
sing J. Rosenwald to exchange the Rembrandt etching “The Presenta-
tion in the Temple” for a superior impression of the same work.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

During the fiscal year 1952 the following works of art were received
on loan by the National Gallery of Art.

From Artist

GC. S. Gulbenkian, Lisbon, Portugal;

Hizhtecolde med aiouse..s2= === eee anes Greco-Roman, third cen-

tury A. D.

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:

WAY iSO Mee ee ae ee eee Stuart.

‘Thercone Tenement. a eee Bellows.

UTM ENUM tO eas et ea See ee ee J. L. David.

MhenwaliNreSSOS ace ee ene Eo ee ete Steinlen.

Housesvof Parliaments 2.-2 22 eee Monet.

New York Street Scene in Winter__-_-_-__-____- Henri.

Portraitiotarhady i Red ee Theus.

Portrait said to be Mrs. Thomas Palmer______~- Feke.

DheyvArtististGarden= 2222-1 eee tee oe eee ee Blakelock.

Blackebtawke wees se eae eee C. King.

Sprinepwoodse 2s 225 ied Ser eee Ranger.

Boyzonsthe: Rocksta2... =~ eo eee ee eee eee _._. Rousseau.

ThepWindmille a Se ee Se eee: Ryder.

Moonligh ta este eae e cee Weir.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

From Artist
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.—Continued

The BAgKeL Wo. _ Be eee ee Dufy. |
WIE WOR Memento te Seen ee eS oe ena ee Dufy. |
ThetCommunieant. ee ee ee eee Carriere.
Seated Nudes oe ee ee Matisse.
InpthewRain 45a. = eet ES De Sat yee a eS Hassam.
Seated: Nude 2+. 22-23. * A Ae ee Hassam.
Cate! Scene ea ern see ee res Rouault.
Nude with Raised:Arms—— 30335502 22") S22 Rouault.
Oranzesiand Marigolds=2— "= = ee Vallotton.
Basque Landscapes. 2 2 Oudaor:
Nude Woman with Flowers and Fruit_________-__ Braque.
Nude Woman with Fruit______-____-__---._-.-.. Braque.
Peoniés*2 2222245228254 822 So eee ee Braque.
Still duife:. The Table: =.=. ===. 3 See eee Braque.
Still ite ep JOUrs=2 2255 2 6 eee Braque.
Conversation among the Ruins______--__-------. de Chirico.
Harlequin 2202 2 eek eee ee tt 5 Yet bE Derain.
VWiomal injansArmchairs:: 22. Derain.
Head. otia Girls -. is 2 a SEE A Derain.
Still bifes + - 2202s se oe 2 ee Derain.
The Old Bridge = = ee ee ee Derain.
INNO WErStin ay VASO eee Derain.
Head-of a Womans=---=-- == = a eee Derain.
Still Vifes= 222" 2 Se ee Dufresne.
PudemMent Ol Wavise= ao. 2 een eee Dufresne.
Nude eCchining sss. = aes eee eee Dufy.
Saint! Janets tae) Se Se ee Dufy.
Vendor of 1ces= 222 2 sie ee eee Gromaire.
Woman with) Mirror ss ees 22 ee eee Leger.
InithesParks otes2 22 so ees Se See ee ee Laurencin.
TiestBiciCloud=24- = ee Lureat.
Odalisque with Raised Arms_____--~-_____---~- Matisse.
WoOnlsanewii ExOulG eb antes eee Matisse.
ihes| Gorges du Woup os ee eee Matisse.
Still Life: Apples on Pink Table Cloth____--__-_- Matisse.
TPhesPlumed: Hates 2s sas ees Matisse.
he: Musician: == 3 &e eee a ee as See Marcoussis.
heon: Bakst.222 252 So a ee es ee Modigliani.
Mme. Amedee (Woman with Cigarette) _____-__ Modigliani.
Adrienne (Woman with Bangs) ------_-__-_---. Modigliani.
Woman with Red yaairs es a2 see aes ee Modigliani.
Gypsy Woman. with, Baby——-= == == as eee. Modigliani.
The Market. <= * a. Stee ee ae ee Oudot.
‘The sdLOVers = 2=2 = ee ee ee Picasso.
Whe raved yo se a a eee Picasso.
MheiG OULU = ae ee ee ee ee ee Picasso.
Two: Youths 222 fae ooo ee ee ee Picasso.
sucecler with Soll ites 2 ee ee Picasso.
Hamily ot SaltunbanqQues=es = =n __ Picasso.
SHIM CEA e-—- eee Soe ee ee ee ee ee CASS
@lassicallead 22. 2 = nee eee unt .. Picasso.

Mme Picahss0..2— =~. 52-250 eee Picasso.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

From Artist
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.—Continued

IPOriraiinOt a BOV ees Soutine.
The:Ntainway, belleville =. a Quizet.
Ba tneRs ie es ee et Oe ee eee eee Tondu.
Marizy-Sainte-Genevieve______---__ -_-----__--- Utrillo.
ChurnchromeSaint-Severin = =- = se ee Utrillo.
IVaSCVODMRHOWCTS 22 ee ee eee eae, Viaminck.
SIH GeRIVGDE = She te ae ee 2 Se ee Viaminck.
Still bifenvithwuemonss— 2. 5 2s te Viaminck.
Olad.Roxtwo Marseilles 2+ — tee ee ee Viaminck.
@arrieressSaint-Denis=_= -- 2 = _. Vilaminck.

U. S. Department of State
(Charles Loeser Bequest) :

Stilluiiferof Apples222 2 2 oe tN eee? Cezanne.

Still ateswith: Skolle ss eee Cezanne.

WeamSaimater ViChOrre = ee os ee Cezanne.

TouserBesiderd makes ss = ae wath eee Cezanne.

TON OT OSG 2 ee ee ee ees ae a Ee Cezanne.

Shove 8 (CUE. a eee ee Cezanne.

iRoatmous@on themRiVera- === a Cezanne.

handseape witha Gowerl2 2.2 2 She see eee weet Cezanne.
Mrs. William C. Johnson, Frederick, Md.;

Portraitiot Monroe.e= 222. = 2 28 = tee ae Vanderlyn.
Patrick Tracy Jackson, Cambridge, Mass. :

Patrick racy = soe eae a oe. Trumbull.
Walter C. B. Morse, Glenwood, Md.:

Mrancis:; Goodloe: Harpers 22 ia es: fs eee Samuel EF. B. Morse.

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
23 objects of Pre-Columbian art.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year 1952:

To Artist
Chauncey Stillman, New York, N. Y.:
‘Av Halberdierse 22h. . Soe eee Be Re eee Ae te ess Pontormo.
Mrs. Robert Brookings, Washington, D. C.:
sabe aVvalles aa eee Se eee ae ee ee a Sargent.
isnbella KE Sareea nie ee es Soe ee eee ee Sargent.

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year 1952 the Gallery lent the following works of
art for exhibition purposes:

To Artist
American Federation of Arts (Berlin Exhibition) :
George Washington (Vaughan-Sinclair) --_---_______.-_-- Stuart.
Atlanta Art Association, High Museum, Atlanta, Ga.:
Alexangern EramitON 22 — ee ee ys ae Trumbull.
Jsne Brow. = — eee he ee ee ee Copley.

Wralligmin a Moores. = 502 se Mele eke oe ee es Feke.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

To Artist

Atlanta Art Association, High Museum, Atlanta, Ga.—Continued

John Philip: dephlagst . 5-5 ee eee Peal, C. W.

Matildai@rucertecte:: =. ===. A ee Stuart.

Georze: Pollockteun 22.2 ane be Stuart.

Mrs: (George: Pollock’ 2. 22 se eee Stuart.

Roberthew=24242) oo Sos eS ee Stuart.

Tnike: Whitessctee ss eee es eee Stuart.

AnnELOp win Saniee tes yo = ee eee Sully.

BRrancis: Hopkinson’-=_ 22452252 Sully.

Self Portraitssert tes 5 2s a ee ee West.

Mary WaltonMMorris. 235.252 -2.sceccnessecSnce eee Wollaston.

William Ricko rt) 2 Stee ees Pili 2 eee Stuart.

WiliiamoSs Mount e  2 ee Elliott.

POSiAS A Ms ove ya a er ar Theus.

7PHOMSS: Paine Reo Fn ee a re en es Jarvis.

Henry? (Clay? on a ee eee ee J. J. Audubon.

Henry Laurens BAwee® eB ere eh Copley.

ANGE Wai J ACKSO MEF a Ralph Earl.

General Motiltiie ee tee on eee Peale, C. W.

Pocahontas: eine e ) ne ee British School.
Worcester Art Museum, Worcester, Mass. :

A Younes Woman (Costume Study). 22222 2s Durer.
National Audubon Society, New York, N. Y.:

Bult 22s see a ae ee eee Audubon.

Arebic Har et ee eo) 3 24s 5 as al nnn ea ee eee Audubon.
Portraits, Ine., New York, N. Y.:

Andrew Wi. vicllOn = = - eee ee Oswald Birley.
Phillips Gallery, Washington, D. C.:

Stormioverlaoss(water\colon) ——.2- eee Marin.

Heho ake. /(water color))2.2-3 2253-2 ee eee Marin.
Woodlawn Association, Woodlawn, Va.:

William “Dhomton+.2-2 2222222202 Se ee Se Stuart.

Mrs WalliamRnornton@. 22.5 See eee a ee Stuart.

George: Washington at Princetons=-22- 2222 = eee Polk.
Senate House Museum, Kingston, N. Y.:

Zachariah: Schoonmakers 20228-2272. 24e ee eee Vanderlyn.

‘The! Returntoi Rip Vans Win kle<ss2ses sneer Quidor.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of
Art during the fiscal year 1952:

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art.
Continued from previous fiscal year through September 10, 1951.

Audubon Paintings and Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery
of Art. September 23 through October 28, 1951.

Index of American Design. Water-color renderings. November 4 through
November 25, 1951.

Fifteenth-century Graphic Art. From the Rosenwald Collection, including
woodcuts, broadsides, a famous printed textile, block books, and early illustrated
woodcut books. December 2, 1951, through February 3, 1952.

French Paintings. Lent to the National Gallery of Art by Capt. Edward
Molyneux of France. March 2 through May 11, 1952.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 33

Lithographs by Toulouse-Lautrec. From the Rosenwald Collection. Opened
May 18, 1952.

French Wighteenth-century Aquatints. From the Widener Collection. Opened
June 3, 1952.

The following exhibitions were displayed in the cafeteria cor-
ridor of the National Gallery of Art during the fiscal year 1952:

Engravings by William Blake. Gift of anonymous donor. Continued from
previous fiscal year through January 20, 1952.

Etchings by Jacques Callot. The Rosenwald Collection. January 22 through
April 19, 1952.

Etchings and drypoints by Alphonse Legros. The George Matthew Adams
Collection. Opened April 19, 1952.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection.—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year:

U. S. Department of State Exhibition in Germany:
Contemporary American Prints.

August 195i-January 1952.

University of Alabama, University, Ala.:
Exhibition of Picasso Prints.
September-October 1951.

University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla.:
English Water-color Exhibition.

October 1951.

Maryville College, Maryville, Tenn.:

French Nineteenth-century Exhibition.
October 1951.

Pasadena Art Institute, Pasadena, Calif.:
Mary Cassatt Prints.

October 1951.

University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Selections from the Rosenwald Collection.
October 1951-January 1952.

Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio:
Lyonel Feininger Prints.
October-November 1951.

Fogg Museum of Art, Cambridge, Mass. :
Cranach Woodcuts.

November 1951.

Carnegie Institute, Department of Fine Arts, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Old Master Drawings, French Exhibition.
November-—December 1951.

Worcester Art Museum, Worcester, Mass. :

The Practice of Drawing, Old Master Drawings.
November 1951—January 1952.

Philadelphia Art Alliance, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Beckmann Prints.

December 1951.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Carnegie Institute, Department of Fine Arts, Pittsburgh, Pa.:

Vollard Exhibition.
January 1952.

Milwaukee Art Institute, Milwaukee, Wis. :

Blake Exhibition.
January 1952.

Birmingham Museum of Art, Birmingham, Ala.:

Vollard Exhibition.
February—March 1952.

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
100 Masterpieces of the Print.
February—March 1952.

Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minn. :
Water Colors by Old Masters.

April 15—June 15, 1952.

Wesleyan University Art Department, Middletown, Conn.:
1 Picasso—Picasso-Klee Exhibition.

May 12-30, 1952.

Busch-Reisinger Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. :
“Durer, Before and After,” Sixteenth-century Prints.
May 9—June 19, 1952.

U. S. Department of State, Washington, D. C.:

4 American Contemporaries for Lugano.

The White House, Washington, D. C.:
Permanent loan exhibition of 21 prints.

Index of American Design—During the fiscal year 1952, 38 travel-
ing exhibitions of original water-color renderings of this collection,
with 78 bookings, were sent to the following States and countries:

Number of
State Exhibitions
Alabama 225225. 5 5W- se See ee =
ATKONSSS: ose oo SR a eee Me
Connecticut... 422. = Bia oS eee 4
District of Columbia _- = eee 7
LOT i oo ae ee re) ee 1
JOWas2 3. 3 a ee ee eee 4
Kentucky 2..5=-- ten ne eee eee af
Maryland .22-=--=2- 22. 25352 eee eee 2
Massachusetts. 2.3.38 ee ee ee 2
Missouris 22 S22 Soe ee 1
New. Hampshiressvs sou. 3b 4) 2223 11
New -J ClS0ys5 522285522 ee ee eee 1
ING@W* WOU 2222253 ee ee Me ee ee 10
North 7@aroling 222) 4 eee ee Se ee ae 7
Pennsylvanias.. 5228) 32 ees Ses Sea 1
South Caroling =o) 322262245 te ee ee 1
Tennessees2 sess =e eee ee ee oS ee eee 5
Utah2 2 S22 5. 1
Vermont... 25, a ees 9
Virginiaoso 2. 222. oe Se ee ee ee 1
Wisconsinidv 2. Soe) eee ee 2 ee eee. 1
Europe (except Western Germany) —-_-----______ i
Germany ‘and Austria2®.2Us22. SS eee ee ae 1

Western (Germanyaees se). Set oe ee a 1

SECRETARY'S REPORT 35
CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 1,653 new gifts to the
Gallery during the fiscal year 1952. Advice was given regarding 307
works of art brought to the Gallery for opinion, and 56 visits to other
collections were made by members of the staff for either expert opinion
or in connection with offers of gifts. About 2,000 inquiries requiring
research were answered verbally and by letter. During the year seven
individual lectures were given by members of the curatorial staff.
Miss Elizabeth Mongan gave a lecture series to students of Beaver
College, and Charles M. Richards conducted two courses in art history
under the auspices of the Department of Agriculture. Mr. Richards
attended the annual meeting of the American Association of Museums
and served as an expert in a round-table discussion of registrarial
problems. Miss Katharine Shepard was sent as a delegate from the
Washington Society to the annual meeting of the Archaeological In-
stitute of America. Perry C. Cott was elected to the Board of Gov-
ernors of this Institute. Mr. Cott arranged a schedule of tours of
United States museums for visiting foreigners under the International
Exchange of Persons Division, State Department. Erwin O.
Christensen made examinations of objects in the Widener collection in
connection with the publication of the handbook, “Jewels and Rock
Crystals.” Mr. Christensen also made a survey and wrote a report
on the condition of the marquetry of the furniture in the Widener
collection for restoration purposes.

Special installations were prepared for the eight gold medallions
lent to the Gallery by C.S. Gulbenkian, and for Pre-Columbian objects
lent by Robert Woods Bliss.

The cataloging and filing of photographs in the Richter archive
continued to make progress. The cataloging of photographs in the
Stieglitz collection was completed in the spring; 1,486 cards were made.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

Necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the Gallery’s
collections were made by Francis Sullivan, Resident Restorer to the
Gallery. The work was completed in the Restorer’s studio in the
Gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

During the year Huntington Cairns contributed an article on “The
Humanities and the Law” to the New York University Law Review,
and reviews of volumes I, II, and III of “The Psychology of Art,” by
André Malraux, to the Virginia Quarterly Review; “Caravan: The
Story of the Middle East,” by Carleton S. Coon, to the Scientific
- Monthly; and “The Spirit of Liberty: Papers and Addresses of
Learned Hand,” edited by Irving Dilliard, to the Baltimore Evening

36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Sun. He also delivered a series of lectures at the Johns Hopkins
University on “The Theory of Criticism.”

An article by John Walker entitled “Your National Gallery of Art”
appeared in the January issue of the National Geographic Magazine.
Mrs. John Shapley contributed an article, “Benozzo Gozzoli’s Dance
of Salome,” to the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, February 1952. Perry B.
Cott contributed an article, “Italian Art in the National Gallery,
Washington,” for Le Vie del Mondo, May 1952. Mr. Cott also pre-
pared the catalog “French Paintings from the Molyneux Collection,”
April 1952. Miss Elizabeth Mongan wrote “Introduction for Bo-
tanical Books, Prints and Drawings from the Collection of Mrs. Roy
Arthur Hunt,” October 1951. Miss Mongan also wrote “Introduc-
tion,” Reder, New York, Borgenricht Gallery.

The new book “Great Paintings from the National Gallery of Art,”
by Huntington Cairns and John Walker, to be published by the Mac-
millan Co., will be ready for delivery in November 1952. A new
Handbook, No. 3, on “Objects of Medieval Art” by Erwin O. Christen-
sen, is also on order.

A book for hobbyists, entitled “Early American Designs: Ceramics,”
was written by Erwin O. Christensen; and two articles on adult art
education programs were written by Miss Lois Bingham and Grose
Evans for the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore.

During the fiscal year 1952 the Publications Fund added five new
color postcards and a new 11-x-14’’ color reproduction to the list
available, and 59 more of the large color plates were made for use in
the new book “Great Paintings from the National Gallery of Art,”
and eventual use for 11-x-14’’ prints. Four new Christmas card
color plates were also produced.

A new guidebook, “Looking at Italian Pictures in the National
Gallery of Art,” was issued, and Mr. Walker’s booklet “Paintings
from America” was placed on sale. The Handbook No. 1 went into
a third large printing, and a second printing of the “European Paint-
ings from the Gulbenkian Collection” was received. Before Christ-
mas, a calendar entitled “Famous Paintings” and a Spanish-language
guide to collections of art in the United States, both including a large
number of Gallery works of art, were placed on sale in the information
rooms.

During this period, reproductions of 10 pieces of sculpture from the
Gallery’s collection were made available for the first time and have
been well received. Three more recordings by the National Gallery
Symphony Orchestra were also placed on sale, as well as a new set
of Index of American Design playing cards. A checklist of the
Molyneux paintings was made available during the exhibition hers
in the winter.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 37
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The attendance for the general, congressional, and special tours
and the “Picture of the Week” totaled 36,756, while the attendance
at the 48 auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately
14,284 during the fiscal year 1952.

Special tours, lectures, and conferences arranged for by appointment
were given to 213 groups and individuals. The total number of
people served in this manner was 5,651, an increase of 2,093 over last
year. These special appointments were made for such groups as
Department of State trainees for overseas cultural service, Germans
sponsored by the orientation program of the American Council of
Education functioning under the point-4 program of the Department
of State, groups from various other governmental departments, high-
school and college students, women’s clubs, Brownies, Scouts, Sunday
school classes, and groups from national conventions meeting in the
city. This service also included the training of Junior League vol-
unteers who thereafter conducted tours for art students in the Wash-
ington high schools and a training program for members of the
Arlington American Association of University Women who served
as volunteer docents and conducted tours in the Gallery for all the
Arlington public-school children in grades two through six.

The staff of the Education Office delivered 26 lantern-slide lectures
and four film lectures, while guest speakers delivered 17 lectures.
During March and April, Jacques Maritain delivered the first annual
series of the A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts on the theme “Cre-
ative Intuition in Art and Poetry.”

During the past year 124 persons borrowed 4,853 slides from the
lending collection, which contains more than 10,000 slides.

Two additional 16-mm. prints of the film “The National Gallery of
Art” were made. Seven prints are now available for circulation.
The film was lent 73 times during the year. Two sets of 2-x-2’’-size
slides, and one set of standard-size slides of the “Christmas Story in
Art,” a mimeographed lecture illustrated by 34 slides, were available
for circulation. These were in constant use during the Christmas
season.

The monthly Calendar of Events announcing all the Gallery activ-
ities, including notices of exhibitions, new publications, lectures,
gallery talks, tours, and concerts, was mailed to more than 4,000
persons.

LIBRARY

Books, pamphlets, periodicals, and subscriptions purchased out of
the fund presented to the National Gallery of Art by Paul Mellon
_ totaled 438 during the fiscal year 1952. Gifts included 285 books and
pamphlets, while 614 books, etc., were received on exchange from other
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

institutions. In addition 264 photographs of works of art were re-
ceived on exchange. A total of 301 copies of the illustrated catalog
of “Paintings and Sculpture from the Kress Collection,” and 299
copies of the catalog “Renaissance Bronzes from the Kress Collection”
were sent on exchange to other museums. The Library is the deposi-
tory for photographs of the works of art in the collections of the
National Gallery of Art. A stock of reproductions is maintained for
use in research occupations by the curatorial and other departments
of the Gallery ; for the dissemination of knowledge to qualified sources;
for exchange with other art institutions; for publicity; and for sale
at the request of any interested individual.

The photographic collection has grown with new bequests and
loans made to the National Gallery of Art during the year. A sub-
stantial addition has occurred in the instance of the new loans from
Chester Dale. The photographic file continues to present a complete
pictorial record for reference to all the objects in the Gallery as well
as to provide limited quantities of 8-x-10’’ prints for distribution.

During the year 641 persons other than the Gallery staff used the
Library for research.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

During the fiscal year 1952 a total of 9 new exhibits containing 396
renderings were completed. Permission was granted for the repro-
duction of 183 plates, while 743 photographs were distributed for
use by designers, possible publication, research, study, and publicity.
A total of 1,016 slides were circulated and several designs from the
Index were adapted for commercial use on drapery material, furni-
ture, and playing cards. The entire collection of 1,666 2-x-2’’ color
slides was organized into 20 loan sets and 1 miscellaneous group for
loan to individual lecturers, museums, schools, and colleges.

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The usual work in connection with the care and maintenance of
the building, its mechanical equipment, and the grounds was continued
throughout the year. Considerable redecorating was done, including
the painting of several galleries and offices. Flowering and foliage
plants, totaling in number 5,869 and valued at approximately $7,700,
were grown in the moats and were used for decoration in the garden
courts throughout the year.

The lawn-sprinkler system was extended to include several grass
areas between Constitution Avenue and the sidewalk adjacent thereto.

During the winter months, all the refrigeration machines were given
an annual overhauling which included the balancing of the rotors,
the cleaning and testing of new parts, and the necessary repairs in

SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

order to place them in condition for the summer months. During
the process laboratory tests revealed that two of the machines needed
certain replacements. This condition was called to the attention of
the manufacturers, and the Gallery was informed by them on June
20, 1952, as well as by the Vermilya-Brown Co., that the condition
was serious and it would be necessary to replace the condensers, com-
pressors, and coolers in all three machines. Estimates obtained
indicated that this work would cost about $187,500. These funds were
made available in a supplemental appropriation bill by the Eighty-
second Congress for use for this purpose during the fiscal year 1953.

Two sections of skylight, representing an area of approximately
850 square feet, were completely overhauled, and this work of skylight
repair is being continued.

The American District, Telegraph Co.’s automatic fire-alarm sys-
tem was extended to the two storage areas on the 81-foot level north
and south of the rotunda.

The Gallery’s staff did a considerable amount of work in connection
with the new storage vault, especially in the installation of steel storage

racks.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GALLERIES

Work under the contract entered into on July 31, 1950, for the con-
struction of galleries 35, 354A, 40, 41, and 41A in the southwest end
of the building was completed in January 1952. Private funds were
made available for this purpose.

CONSTRUCTION OF STORAGE FACILITIES

The completion of the work under the contract entered into March
1, 1951, for building a storage room adjacent to the Gallery building
in the southeast moat, has been delayed because of the difficulty en-
countered in obtaining certain materials called for in the specifications,
and it is now anticipated that this project will be completed late in
the summer of 1952.

Work under the contract entered into on March 2, 1951, to build
a storage building and reconstruct a cottage on the site of Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College, Lynchburg, Va., was completed in April
1952. Both of these projects were made possible by private funds
donated for these purposes.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

A total of 48 Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal
year in the West Garden Court. The National Gallery Orchestra,
under the direction of Richard Bales, played 11 concerts at the Gallery

236639—53——4

40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

with 4 additional performances in Charlottesville and Middleburg,
Va. Two of the orchestral concerts at the Gallery were made possible
by the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American Federation
of Musicians. The orchestra also gave two children’s concerts at the
Corcoran Gallery of Art. During April the Sunday evenings were
devoted to the Gallery’s Ninth Annual American Music Festival,
featuring 34 works by 15 American composers. Most of the concerts
were broadcast in their entirety by Station WCFM, Washington, and
those of the National Gallery Orchestra and the American Music
Festival were carried by the Continental FM Network. The Na-
tional Gallery Orchestra made two long-playing records, one of which
was selected by the New York Times for its list of outstanding record-
ings of the year 1951. During August and September 1951 the Na-
tional Gallery Orchestra played the first regular series of symphonic
music on television as part of the NBC “Heritage” programs of art
and music originating in the Gallery. This was selected by the New
York Times as the finest serious music program of 1951 on television.

The photographic laboratory of the Gallery produced 14,028 prints,
390 black-and-white slides, and 928 color slides during the fiscal year,
in addition to 8,214 negatives, as well as X-rays, infrared, and ultra-
violet photographs.

During the fiscal year 1952, a total of 2,698 press releases were issued
with respect to Gallery activities, while 161 permits to copy paintings,
and 240 permits to photograph in the Gallery were issued.

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of books on works of art and related material were made to
the Gallery by Paul Mellon and others. Gifts of money were made
during the fiscal year 1952 by the A. W. Mellon Educational and
Charitable Trust, the Avalon Foundation, and the Old Dominion
Foundation. An additional cash bequest was received from the estate
of the late William Nelson Cromwell.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

Hountineton Carrns, Secretary.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 3

Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1952:

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-ninth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion was held in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Building on
Tuesday, December 4, 1951. ‘The members present were: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Alexander Wetmore, secretary (member, ex oflicio) ;
Robert Woods Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, George H. Edgell, David
E. Finley, George Hewitt Myers, Archibald Wenley, Lawrence Grant
White, Andrew Wyeth, and Mahonri Young. Thomas M. Beggs,
Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, and Paul V. Gardner,
curator of ceramics, National Collection of Fine Arts, were also
present.

The Commission recommended the reelection of George H. Edgell,
Lloyd Goodrich, and Lawrence Grant White for the usual 4-year
period. As James E. Fraser had been unable to attend the meetings
for several years, his status was changed to that of member emeritus.
The secretary was instructed to send a letter on behalf of the Com-
mission expressing thanks for Mr. Fraser’s services and a desire for
his presence at its future meetings. The Commission recommended
to the Board of Regents the appointment of Walker Hancock to
membership.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman, and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, secretary. The following were elected members
of the executive committee for the ensuing year: David E. Finley,
chairman, Robert Woods Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, and George Hewitt
Myers. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commission, and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are ex officio
members of the executive committee.

Mr. Beggs reported that gifts received during 1951 include a fund
established by Mrs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney for the purpose of main-
taining a lending collection to advance the appreciation and creation

-of art throughout the United States. The capital of $15,000 is to

41
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

be increased during the next 3 years by annual additions of $5,000.
Ultimately the fund will help substantially the National Collection
of Fine Arts in carrying out the authorization in its act of estab-
lishment for the circulation of traveling exhibitions.

The Barney fund, in conjunction with a grant made last June by
the Department of State for the assembling of 12 exhibitions to be sent
to West Germany and Austria, has permitted the Institution to obtain
the services of Mrs. John A. Pope and Miss Gladys E. Acton, who
will handle, under the direction of the National Collection of Fine
Arts, the details of the new Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service.
With the National Gallery of Art and the Freer Gallery of Art serving
as national repositories for rare and valuable paintings, sculptures,
and art objects of the best periods of European and oriental art, it is
now the acknowledged responsibility of the National Collection of
Fine Arts to encourage contemporary art and artists.

The Commission accepted the following objects for the National
Collection of Fine Arts:

Oil, Nancy, by George DeForest Brush, N. A. (1855-1941). Henry Ward
Ranger bequest.

Oil, The Figurine, by William M. Paxton, N. A. (1869-1941). Henry Ward
Ranger bequest.

Two sculptures, Baboon (in limestone) and Antelope (in black Belgian
marble), by Bessie S. Callender (1889-1951). Gift of her husband, Harold
Callender.

Three pieces of modern glass, Tritonschale and Meerweibachale, both engraved,
ce. 1875, Austrian, made by Lobmeyer Factory, and an enameled perfume bottle,
designed by Emile Gallé. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. Smith, Jr.

Five prize-winning pieces of ceramics from the Second Annual Exhibition
of Ceramic Art, 1951: Large bowl, black glaze, by Mary Tilton Brammell;
small rice bowl, brushwork, by Kathleen P. Lewis; stoneware bowl, green glaze,
by Helen O’Brien; bowl, brown glaze, by Lisle Pursel; and jug with stopper, by
Alta C. Fuller. Gift of the Kiln Club.

Miniature, water color on ivory, The Last Karl of Glencairn, by an undeter-
mined artist. Gift of William Mouat Hannay.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Eight miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the
fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden
Myer, as follows:

79. Miss Margaret Liddell, by Nathaniel Plimer; from Edmund Bury, Phila-
delphia, Pa.

80. William Lumpas, by undetermined artist; from Miss Jennie E. Doolittle,
Washington, D. C.

81. Gentleman in Red Coat, attributed to Gervase Spencer.

82. Gentleman with a Black Coat, attributed to John Thomas Barber
Beaumont.

83. James Wilson (1742-98), Signer of the Declaration of Independence, by
undetermined artist; from T. R. Montgomery, Chagrin Falls, Ohio, and brothers.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

84. Ed Scarlett, by James Scouler.

85. Mrs. John Jorden, Jr., by J. Henry Brown.

86. Unknown Woman, by undetermined artist.

Nos. 81 and 82 were acquired from Dr. Daniel B. Kirby, New York,
N. Y., and Nos. 84, 85, and 86 were acquired from Dorsey Griffith,
New Market, Md., through Ruel P. Tolman, Washington, D. C.

STUDY COLLECTION

A cameo glass vase, designed by Emile Gallé, France, 1895, the gift
of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J . Smith, Jr., was added to the study collection.

LOANS ACCEPTED

Twenty-two pieces of modern glass were lent by Mr. and Mrs. Hugh
J. Smith, Jr., Scarsdale, N. Y., as follows: 7 French, 1 Finnish, 1
Dutch, 3 Swedish, and 4 American, on November 20, 1951; 4 Swedish
on December 27, 1951, and 2 Swedish on March 17, 1952.

A jeweled collar of gold, designed with peacock-feather motif, and
executed by Mellerio, Paris, was lent by Natalie Clifford Barney and
Laura Dreyfus-Barney on June 13, 1952.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Two oils, At Nature’s Mirror, by Ralph A. Blakelock, and Moon-
light, by Albert P. Ryder, were lent to the National Academy of
Design, to be included in the exhibition American Tradition, 1800-
1900, from December 2 to 23, 1951. (Returned January 3, 1952.)

Three oils, A Gentlewoman, Upland Pasture, and Portrait of Wyatt
Eaton, by J. Alden Weir, were lent to the American Academy of Arts
and Letters, for an exhibition during February and March 1952.
(Returned April 8, 1952.)

Oil, At Nature’s Mirror, by Ralph A. Blakelock, was lent to the
American Federation of Arts, for their traveling show, the American
Tradition, 1800-1900, on February 12, 1952.

Oil, Georgia Pines, by George Inness, was lent to The White House
on March 18, 1952, for a period not to exceed 4 years.

Three oils, Indian Summer, by John Francis Murphy; Spring, by
Alexander H. Wyant; and Portrait of John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy,
were lent to the Bureau of the Budget on March 18, 1952, for a period
not to exceed 4 years.

Five oils, portraits of members of the National Academy of Sci-
ences: Louis Agassiz, by Walter Ingalls; Joseph Henry, by Walter
Ingalls; Spencer F. Baird, by Henry Ulke; Charles D. Walcott, by
Hattie Burdette, and Charles G. Abbot, by Samantha L. Huntley,
- were lent to the National Academy of Sciences on April 25, 1952, for
a period of 4 years.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Two oils, portraits of Maj. Gen. Henry Tureman Allen and Maj.
Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, by Seymour M. Stone, were lent to the De-
partment of the Army on May 23, 1952, for a period not to exceed
4 years.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

One pastel painting, The Tennessee Madonna, by James Ross Bry-
son, lent by Mrs. B. S. Williams in 1931, was withdrawn by the owner
on November 28, 1951, and delivered to the National Shrine of the
Immaculate Conception, Washington, D. C.

Two panels of stained glass, Dante and Beatrice, designed and
executed by William Willet, were withdrawn by the artist’s daughter,
Mrs. Thomas H. English, Atlanta, Ga., on March 17, 1952.

Eighteen pieces of ceramics and one teakwood stand were with-
drawn by Mrs. H. Foster Bain and shipped to the University of
Nevada, Reno, Nev., on June 16, 1952.

One oil painting, portrait of Sr. Benito Judrez, by Tom Lea, lent
by the State Department in 1949, was returned to the Blair Lee House
on June 16, 1952.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

Fifty-four paintings in oil, by Edwin Scott (1863-1929) , were added
to the Alice Pike Barney Memorial Collection presented last year to
the Smithsonian Institution by Natalie Clifford Barney and Laura
Dreyfus-Barney, as the nucleus of a loan collection for the embellish-
ment of Federal buildings, museums, libraries, colleges, and other
educational institutions in this country.

One oil painting, Early New Mexican Village (probably Lemitar),
by an undetermined artist, transferred from the Bureau of American
Ethnology, was lent to the Museum of New Mexico Art Gallery, Santa
Fe, through Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Regent of the Smith-
sonian Institution, February 27, 1952, for an indefinite period.

Ten paintings by Alice Pike Barney (1860-1931) were lent to the
Prairie View Agricultural and Mechanical College, Prairie View,
Tex., on February 27, 1952, for a special exhibition. (Returned
June 3, 1952.)

Fourteen paintings (12 by Alice Pike Barney, 1 by E. Ray, and 1
by A. Kinder) were lent to Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., on
June 16, 1952, for special exhibition.

One oil painting, Small Port, Puerto Montt, by Arturo Pacheco
Altamirano, the gift of the people of Chile to the United States
through Sefior Felix Nieto del Rio, the Chilean Ambassador, after
its initial exhibition of 5 months in the lobby of the Natural History
Building, was lent to Lehigh University, June 23, 1952, for a period
of six months.

SECRETARY'S REPORT A5

Eleven paintings by Alice Pike Barney were lent to the Dayton Art
Institute, Dayton, Ohio, June 25, 1952, for a special exhibition.

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

An addition of $5,000 to the fund established in 1951 by Miss Natalie
Clifford Barney and Mrs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney, in memory of their
mother, for the purpose of encouraging the appreciation and creation
of art in the United States, was received in January 1952.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest and assigned to
American art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, two
paintings, listed earlier in this report, were recalled and accepted by
the Smithsonian Art Commission at its meeting December 4, 1951.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design in 1951, have been assigned as follows:

Title and Artist Assignment
126. New Lebanon Railroad Station, by Art Museum, New Britain, Conn.
Louis Bouche, N. A.
127. The City—No. 2, by Raphael Gleits- Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts,

mann. Syracuse, N. Y.
128. Harbor, by Xavier Gonzélez___________ Seattle Art Museum, Seattle, Wash.
129. Four Houses, by Antonio P. Martini, Randolph-Macon College, Lynch-
N. A. burg, Va.
130. Night, by Albert John Pucci___.___---- Museum of Art, University of

Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.

131. Paris, by William A. Smith, A. N. A-__. Florida Southern College, Lakeland,
Fla.

182. Farm in Wssex, by Gifford Beal, N. A-_ Isaac Delgado Museum of Art, New
Orleans, La.

133. Nine men, by Joseph Hirsch__-__--_-- Dallas Art Association, Dallas Mu-
seum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex.

134, Rabbit Island, Hawaii, by Millard Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.

Sheets, N. A.

135. Blacksmith Shop, by John Alonzo The Brick Store Museum, Kenne-
Williams, N. A. bunk, Maine.

136. Chimney Beams, by Andrew Wyeth, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washing-
N. A. ton, D. C.

REFERENCE LIBRARY

In all, 230 publications (158 volumes and 72 pamphlets) were ac-
cessioned during the year; 527 parts of periodicals were entered in
the periodical record, and 17 volumes and 18 pamphlets (serials)
_were entered in the catalog. The total accessions in the National
Collection of Fine Arts library now number 12,252.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

On April 23, 1952, Anna Moore Link, librarian since 1942, was
reassigned to duty in the reference and circulation section of the
Smithsonian Library.

INFORMATION SERVICE

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 1,856.
Examination was made of 878 works of art submitted for identifica-
tion.

Members of the staff performed numerous services for local and
national art or civic organizations by giving talks on various art
subjects and by judging current exhibitions of art and craft work.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Ten special exhibitions were held during the year:

August 30 through September 23, 1951.—The Second Annual Exhibition of
Ceramic Art by the Kiln Club of Washington, D. C., consisting of 145 pieces
by local ceramic artists and 40 pieces by outstanding artists in this and other
countries, lent by the artists themselves or by embassies and collectors, Demon-
strations of pottery-making using the potter’s wheel were given several times
each week by club members. A catalog was privately printed.

August 30 through September 23, 1951—The Fourth Annual Exhibition of
Sculpture by the Washington Sculptors Group, consisting of 21 pieces of sculp-
ture. Gallery talks on sculptural methods and techniques were periodically
given by members of the group.

November 4 through 25, 1951.—The Fourteenth Metropolitan State Art Con-
test, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia Chapter, American
Artists Professional League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club, consisting of 396
paintings, sculpture, prints, ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately
printed.

January 10 through February 27, 1952.—An exhibition of Art and Magic of
Arnhem Land, Australia, consisting of 212 specimens obtained by the National
Geographic Society, Smithsonian Institution, and Commonwealth of Australia
Expedition in 1948.

March 7% through 28, 1952—The Sixtieth Annual Exhibition of the Society
of Washington Artists, consisting of 86 paintings and 21 pieces of sculpture. A
catalog was privately printed.

April 5 through 27, 1952—Biennial Art Exhibition of the National League
of American Pen Women, consisting of 222 paintings, sculpture, prints, ceramics,
and metaleraft. A catalog was privately printed.

May 4 through 30, 1952.—The Nineteenth Annual Exhibition of the Miniature
Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C., consisting of
209 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

May 15 through 30, 1952.—The Fifty-fifth Annual Exhibition of the Washing-
ton Water Color Club, consisting of 156 water colors, etchings, and drawings.
A catalog was privately printed.

June 5 through 26, 1952.—Exhibition of Finnish Arts and Crafts held under
the patronage of His Excellency, the Finnish Envoy to Washington, Minister
Johan Nykopp, and the Finnish-American Society of Helsinki, consisting of

SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

208 paintings, prints, sculpture, ceramics, and rugs. A catalog was privately
printed.

June 5 through 26, 1952—Under the same patronage, and concurrent with
the above, an exhibition was shown of 10 portrait busts and figure sculpture,
by Kalervo Kallio, a Washington resident from Finland. A catalog was

privately printed.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Berces, Director.

Dr. A. WETMORE,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX 4

Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the thirty-second annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1952.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

51.18.

51.19.

52.1.

51.8.

51.17.

52.2.

52.7.

51.9.

BRONZE

Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1766-1122 B. C.). A ceremonial vessel of
the type ku. Design cast in high and low relief. Inside the base is cast
a one-character inscription. 0.326 x 0.191.

Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1766-1122 B. C.). A ceremonial vessel of the
type tsun, round with widely flaring lip, bulging belly, and high flaring
foot. Decoration cast in high and low relief. Two-character inscription
cast inside base. 0.366 x 0.374.

Egyptian, Copto-Arabic, A. D. 8th—9th century. Incense burner in form
of a square, five-domed structure resting on four feet, with @ jour
decoration and handle. 0.315 x 0.212 x 0.408

METALWORK

Persian (Tabaristan), Seljuk period, A. D. 11th century. Silver candle-
stick decorated with repoussé and engraved designs and Arabic inscrip-
tions in kifi script. 0.571 x 0.570.

Persian (Khurisin), Seljuk period, A. D. 12th century, late. Brass candle-
stick decorated with repoussé and engraved designs, also inlaid with
silver, copper, and pitch. 0.403 x 0.477. (Illustrated.)

PAINTING

Indian, Mughal, about A. D. 1600. A Mongol chieftain with attendants;
color and gold on paper; Persian verse in nasta‘lig, orange paper border
with gold animal and colored bird drawings; on reverse, four nasta‘liq
panels and border with tinted figures. 0.423 x 0.265 over all.

Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Scroll painting by Wang Fu
dated in correspondence with 15 June 1410. Bamboos in ink on paper;
43 seals and 1 inscription on painting, 32 seals and 11 inscriptions on
mounting. 0.261 x 8.470.

POTTERY

Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1868-1644). Jar of the type cha-tou; white
porcelain decorated with dragons and floral scrolls in underglaze blue.
Four-character mark of the Chéng-té period (1506-1521) on base.
0.125 x 0.154.

48

SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

51.10. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Pair of dishes with plain

51.11. flaring rims; white porcelain decorated in underglaze blue with “the

three friends’ inside and garden scenes with figures outside. Six-
character marks of the Ch‘éng-hua period (1465-1487) on both bases.
0.043 x 0.201.

51.12. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644), second half of the 15th century.
Jar of the type cha-tou; white porcelain decorated with fruiting and
flowering branches in underglaze blue. 0.108 x 0.149. (Illustrated.)

51.13. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Dish with foliate sides and
flaring rim; white porcelain decorated with 1 large dragon inside and
10 small dragons outside. Six-character mark of the Hsiian-té period
(1425-1436) on base. 0.048 x 0.213.

51.14. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1868-1644), early 15th century. Bowl
with plain straight rim; white porcelain decorated in underglaze blue
with flowers and fruit inside and plain dark petals outside. 0.100 x
0.210.

51.15. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 13868-1644), 15th century. Tankard with
bulbous body, 16-sided neck and attached handle; white porcelain deco-
rated with floral scrolls in underglaze blue. 0.140 x 0.128.

51.16. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Stem cup with plain straight
rim; white porcelain decorated in underglaze blue and overglaze tow-ts‘at
enamels. Six-character mark of the Ch‘éng-hua period (1465-1487) in
horizontal line on base. 0.080 x 0.063.

51.20. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Lung-ch‘tian tripod of the type
hakamagoshi koro; gray porcelain with even, sea-green, celadon glaze.
0.104 x 0.140.

52.3. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 13868-1644). Dish with plain flaring rim;
white porcelain decorated with dragons incised in the paste under a solid
deep blue glaze. Six-character mark of the Chia-ching period (1522-
1566) in underglaze blue on base. 0.045 x 0.250.

52.4. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 13868-1644), second half of the 15th century.
Bowl with plain, slightly flaring rim; white porcelain decorated with “the
three friends” inside and landscape with figures outside, all in underglaze
blue. 0.095 x 0.204.

52.5. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644), early 15th century. Vase of
the type mei-p‘ing; white porcelain decorated with floral scrolls in under-
glaze cobalt blue. 0.248 x 0.152.

52.6. Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644). Bowl with plain rim and
thick sides; white porcelain decorated with underglaze cobalt blue;
inside plain, outside with six sprays of fruits and flowers; six-character
mark of the Hsiian-té period (1426-1435) in a single horizontal line
below the rim. 0.096 x 0.261.

52.8. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Cup of southern kuan ware
with horizontal! foliate flange on one side above a small loop handle;
even, light grayish-brown glaze with deepirregularcrackle. 0.045x0.109
over all.

52.9. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Tea bowl of chien type with
metal rim; coarse, dark reddish-brown stoneware with thick, black glaze
closely streaked with silvery iridescence, rusty brown nearrim. 0.071 x
0.124.

52.10. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.—A. D. 220). Large jar with wide belly
and small mouth of the hard, dark-gray ware called “‘proto-porcelain”’;
decorated with incised designs under a thin, transparent, olive-green
glaze, animal-mask handles and horizontal bands in relief; remains of
an inscription in red on a gesso-like ground over the glaze. 0.329 x 0.382.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

SCULPTURE

51.21. Japanese, Suiko period, A. D. 7th century, middle. Gilt bronze figure of a
Bodhisattva standing on a lotus pedestal. 0.338 x 0.113. (Tllustrated.)

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION

Cleaning and restoration of 12 American paintings were completed
by John and Richard Finlayson of Boston.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 198 as follows:

American art:

Oi paintinest 2222. ee Bee Cee ee ee eee ee 70

SBP CS a 30

Silverpoints 42+ ee ee, SRE Ne ee ee Seinen tn. wean 2

Water Colors. ee es Bes SE ee ee eee 25
Chinese art:

Paintings! eee ee Oe ee ee ee 50

Pottery222=_ pn OE pl Ne eying BAIA hl pe Se AL opcode Seppe Ss Tn Z
Egyptian art:

Crystal 222A 6 2 a eee eee 1
Persian art:

Metalwork =. oto ee a nS ee ee 14
Veneto-Islamic art:

Metalwork. 2 ee ee ee ee Cee

LIBRARY

Accession of books, pamphlets, periodicals, rubbings, and photo-
graphs totaled 775 pieces; and additional study materials included
a stone implement and several hundred pottery shards. Cataloging
of all kinds, including cards typed and filed, covered 4,688 items, while
9 bibliographies were prepared in reply to letters and 140 bibliographic
entries were made on Gallery folder sheets. A total of 567 items were
bound, labeled, repaired, or mounted. The card catalog was revised
to facilitate reference to analytical material shelved in the Periodical
Room. Work on the indexing of both the English and Japanese
editions of the Japanese periodical Kokka continued. The establish-
ment of the technical research laboratory with its specialized library
and new field of subject headings and bibliography problems has
increased and broadened the work of the library.

PUBLICATIONS

One publication of the Gallery was issued during the year:

Title page and contents, Occasional Papers, vol. I, 1951. (Smithsonian Publica-
tion 4049.)

SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

Papers by staff members in outside publications were as follows:

EQTTINGHAUSEN, RicHAxD: Islamic art and archaeology. In “Near Eastern
Culture and Society,” edited by T. Cuyler Young; pp. 17-47, figs. 1-25.
Princeton University Press, 1951.

_ The “beveled style’ in the post-Samarra period. In “Archaeologica

Orientalia in Memoriam Ernst Herzfeld,’ edited by George C. Miles; pp.

72-88, pls. 9-16. Locust Valley, N. Y., 1952.

. [Contributor to] Bibliography of periodical literature on the Near and

Middle East, vols. 19-22. The Middle East Journal, 1951-52.

. Ars Islamica-Ars Orientalis. Ars Islamica, vols. 15-16, pp. vii-viii,

1951.

._ In memoriam: Ernst Herzfeld, with supplementary bibliography. Ars

Islamica, vols. 15-16, pp. 261-267, 1951.

_In memoriam: Ananda Kentish Coomaraswamy. Ars Islamica, vols.

15-16, p. 259, 1951.

. Islamic metalwork in the British Museum, by D. Barrett (review).
Ars Islamica, vols. 15-16, pp. 255-257, 1951.

Getrens, R. J.: Principles in the conservation of mural paintings. In “Hssays
on Archaeological Methods,” edited by James B. Griffin; pp. 59-72. Uni-
versity of Michigan Press, 1951.

—_—_—. The bleaching of stained and discoloured pictures on paper with sodium
chloride and chlorine dioxide. Museum, vol. 5, No. 2, 1952.

Pork, John A.: Archaeological research in Indo-China, vol. 2: The district of
Chiu-Chén during the Han dynasty. Description and comparative study of
the finds, by Olov R. T. Janse (review). Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies,
vol. 14, Nos. 3, 4, pp. 687-644, Dee. 1951.

. The Princessehof Museum in Leeuwarden. Archives of the Chinese Art

Society of America, vol. 5, pp. 23-37, 8 pls., 1951.

. A potter’s portfolio, a selection of fine pots, by Bernard Leach (review).

New Republic, Apr. 21, 1952.

REPRODUCTIONS

During the year the photographic laboratory made 4,547 prints,
506 glass negatives, and 144 lantern slides.

BUILDING

The general condition of the building is good, both inside and
out, and the maintenance and operation continue satisfactory; the
mechanical equipment, though inadequate, continues in working order.
A temporary painter again helped out with the most urgent work,
but the lack of a full-time painter is reflected in the gradual deteriora-
tion of the appearance of the exhibition galleries and other interior
areas.

The major project of the cabinet shop was the completion and fur-
nishing of the technical research laboratory begun last year. Both
conventional and special equipment was installed to provide the

aecessary plumbing, ventilating, light, and power requirements; and
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

closet, bookcases, specimen cases, instrument cases, microscope table,
and examining table were built and installed to meet the specifications
of the associate in technical research.

Eight new exhibition cases are under construction, and miscella-
neous odd jobs in care of office and Gallery equipment, crating, etc.,
continue as usual.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4: 30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 74,940. The highest monthly attendance was in August,
10,714, and the lowest was in December, 2,507. There were 1,498
visitors to the office during the year.

HERZFELD ARCHIVE

Mrs. Charlotte Bradford, sister of the late Ernst Herzfeld, pre-
sented to the Herzfeld Archive further manuscripts and notes pre-
pared by Professor Herzfeld. The Herzfeld material continues to
be used by experts in Near Eastern archeology throughout the world.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of
new accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects
submitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects
in the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese,
Persian, Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, and
exclusive of those made by the laboratory which are listed below,
were made upon 4,385 objects as follows: belonging to private in-
dividuals, 1,749; belonging to dealers, 485; belonging to other
museums, 2,151. In all, 654 photographs of objects were examined
and 504 oriental language inscriptions were translated for outside
individuals and institutions. By request 10 groups totaling 357 per-
sons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by staff mem-
bers; and 2 groups totaling 24 persons were given docent service in
the study-storage rooms.

With the completion of the technical research laboratory and
the appointment of Rutherford J. Gettens as associate in technical
research, a new phase of Gallery activity was inaugurated. Its
purpose is to carry on a continuing investigation of the methods
and materials used by the artists and craftsmen in the ancient civili-
zations represented by objects in the Gallery collections. The labora-
tory was ready for occupancy in March, and Mr. Gettens carried out
the installation of new equipment and materials, including a large

SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

binocular microscope on extendable arm, a chemical microscope, a
metalographic microscope with vertical illuminator, and a photo-
micrographic camera. Also included is a wide selection of standard
chemical apparatus, reagents, and supplies, including ovens, furnaces,
and equipment for glassworking and electrolysis. Reference files,
technical library, and the collection of specimens of pigments, min-
erals, polished metals, and microscopic slide mounts were put in
order. Certain research projects were undertaken while the settle-
ment was still in progress, and by the end of the fiscal year work had
begun on the Gallery collections and 40 reports had been made on
objects submitted for technical examination by outside individuals and
institutions.

Dr. Ettinghausen continued his work abroad. Leaving Afghani-
stan early in July, he spent 3 weeks in Pakistan and India and then
returned to Iran for 5 weeks, during which time Mrs. Ettinghausen
completed her photographic work on the Ardebil Chinese porcelains
for Mr. Pope’s publication of the material he studied there in 1950.
Continuing westward Dr. Ettinghausen spent 6 weeks in Turkey
and 2 weeks each in Morocco and Spain, with shorter visits to Leba-
non, Syria, Jordan, Greece, Tunisia, and Algeria on the way. He
returned to the Gallery in December after an absence of 14 months
during which he studied most of the important monuments of Islamic
culture.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members :

(1951

June 28. Dr. Httinghausen addressed a group from the press department of
the Afghan Government and the Kabul Museum, Kabul, Afghanis-
tan, on “Muslim Art in Western Eyes.” Attendance, 80.

Aug. 22. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed the Iran-America Society in the Cul-
tural Center, Tehran, on “Persian Miniature Paintings.” (Illus-
trated.) Attendance, 78.

Sept.18. Dr. Ettinghausen. as chairman of the first meeting of the section
“General Islamie Art,” addressed the X XIId International Congress
of Orientalists (Islamic section) at Istanbul, Turkey, on “Early
Turkish Art from the Court of the Ghaznevids.” (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 35.

Oct. 4. Mr. Pope addressed members of the Arts Club, Washington, D. C.,
on “Chinese Porcelain.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 75.

Nov.19. Mr. Stern addressed the wives of members of the Officers’ Club,
Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, D. C., on “A Survey of
Japanese Art.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 16.

1952

Jan.17. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the Board of Regents at the
annual dinner, held at the Smithsonian Institution, on “Research in
Art of the Moslem World.” (illustrated.) Attendance, 25.
Mar. 12.

Apr. 15.

Apr. 17.

Apr. 21.

May 20.

May 21.

May 29.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Mr. Gettens addressed members of the Cosmos Club on “Some Obser-
vations on the Patina and Corrosion Products of Ancient Bronzes.”
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 50.

Mr. Pope addressed members of the Questers at luncheon in the
Arts Club, Washington, D. C., on “Mr. Freer and His Collections.”
Attendance, 25.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the Oriental Institute in
Chicago on “Islamic Manuscripts and Miniatures.” (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 90.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the Department of Near
Eastern Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., on
“Islamic Art; The Book.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 90.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the Department of Near
Eastern Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., on
“Tslamic Art; The Mosque.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 30.

Mr. Stern addressed members of the Takoma Park Women’s Club on
“Survey of Japanese Art.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 25.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members and guests of the Middle East
Institute and Oriental Club, Washington. D. C., on “Travels in
Afghanistan and India.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 120.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members and guests of the Middle Hast
Institute and Oriental Club, Washington, D. C., on “Travels in
Afghanistan and India.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 90.

During the year five members of the staff made a total of 14 trips
outside of Washington on official business.

Members of the staff held honorary posts and undertook additional
duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley: Member, visiting committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research

Mr. Pope:

Library and Collection.

Research professor of oriental art, University of Michigan.

Trustee, Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va.

Chairman of the Louise Wallace Hackney scholarship com-
mittee of the American Oriental Society.

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission.

Trustee, Textile Museum of the District of Columbia.

Member of the Board of United States Civil Service
Examiners at Washington, D. C., for the Smithsonian
Institution.

President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group.

Art editor, Far Eastern Quarterly.

President, Washington Society, Archaeological Institute of
America.

Member, two advisory selection committees for Fulbright
awards in fine arts and architecture, under the Conference
Board of Associated Research Councils.

Served as one of the judges at the Second Annual Hxhibi-
tion of Ceramic Art, Kiln Club of Washington, D. C., held
at the Smithsonian Institution, National Collection of
Fine Arts, on August 28, 1951.

Secretary's Report, 1952.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

oy ee

Recent ADDITION TO THE CoLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report, 1952.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

ota le

Recent AppDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

Dr. Ettinghausen: Research professor of Islamic art, University of Michigan,

Mr. Gettens:

Editor, Ars Islamica.

Editor, A Selected and Annotated Bibliography of Books and
Periodicals in Western Languages Dealing with the Near
and Middle Hast with Special Emphasis on Medieval and
Modern Times; to be published under the auspices of the
American Council of Learned Societies.

Member, editorial board, the Art Bulletin.

Trustee, American research center in Egypt.

Member, Comitato Internazionale di Patronato, Museo In-
ternazionale delle Ceramiche, Faenza, Italy.

Chairman, Persian and Islamic section Twenty-second Inter-
national Congress of Orientalists, Istanbul, Sept. 15-22,
1951.

Chairman, Islamic Session, Twenty-second International
Congress of Orientalists, Istanbul, Sept. 18, 1951.

Member, editorial advisory committee, Archaeologica Ori-
entalia in Memoriam Ernst Herzfeld.

Member, editorial advisory committee, Studies in Art and
Literature in Honor of Belle DaCosta Greene.

Associate editor, Studies in Conservation; new journal be-
ing published for the International Institute for the Con-
servation of Museum Objects.

Abstractor for Chemical Abstracts, American Chemicai
Society.

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

Joun A. Pops, Acting Director.

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

286639—58——5
APPENDIX 5
Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which provides for continuing “independently or in
cooperation anthropological researches among the American Indians
and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of the
United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic
remains.”

Information was furnished during the year by members of the
Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the American
Indians, past and present, of both continents. The increased number
of requests from teachers of primary and secondary grades and from
Scout organizations indicates a rapidly growing interest in the Ameri-
can Indian. Various specimens sent to the Bureau were identified
and data on them furnished for their owners.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, devoted most of his
time during the fiscal year to administrative affairs and to the prep-
aration of manuscript on previous field studies in Panama and
southern México. During the year he prepared three reports for
publication: “Stone Monuments of the Rio Chiquito, México,” “The
Use of Jade in Aboriginal America,” and “An Archeological Survey
of Southern Veracruz, Tabasco, and Northern Campeche.”

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau
and Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted most of his time dur-
ing the year to the management and direction of the River Basin Sur-
veys. In August he went to Lincoln, Nebr., to inspect the Missouri
Basin headquarters. From Lincoln, accompanied by Paul L. Cooper,
field director, he proceeded to the Fort Randall Reservoir area near
Chamberlain, S. Dak., and visited a number of archeological sites that
were being excavated by field parties of the River Basin Surveys and
also the excavations being conducted by the Nebraska State Historical
Society. He also took part in a conference on local archeological
problems held at the field camp of the University of Kansas party

56

SECRETARY'S REPORT 57

which was excavating an Indian village site as part of the cooperative
program of the National Park Service. From the Fort Randall area
he proceeded to the Oahe Reservoir area north of Pierre, S. Dak.,
where he visited two River Basin Surveys excavating parties. From
Pierre he proceeded to Cody, Wyo., in company with Dr. Waldo R.
Wedel, curator of archeology, United States National Museum, to in-
spect an archeological site on Sage Creek where remains of early man
had been found. The purpose of that trip was to assist in planning
a series of investigations to be carried on there during the field season
of 1952 as a cooperative project between the Smithsonian Institution
and Princeton University. Returning to Pierre, Dr. Roberts held
a number of conferences with staff members to discuss the plans and
operations of the salvage program in that area. During the fall and
winter months he made several trips to the Missouri Basin headquar-
ters at Lincoln. In March he went to Columbus, Ohio, and delivered
a lecture on “Early Man in the New World” before the Ohio State
Historical Society at the State museum. He returned to Columbus in
May to attend the annual meeting of the Society for American Archae-
ology and to take part in a symposium dealing with the carbon-14
method for dating archeological remains. During the year Dr.
Roberts completed two manuscripts: “River Basin Surveys: The
First Five Years of the Inter-Agency Archeological and Paleonto-
logical Salvage Program” and “The Carbon-14 Method of Age Deter-
mination,” both of which were published in the 1951 Smithsonian
Annual Report. During the year Dr. Roberts received the Viking
Fund Medal and Award of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthro-
pological Research for his work in American archeology.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his research on the
Eskimo and other Arctic activities. Through arrangements with the
National Museum of Canada, his assistant of 1950, William E. Taylor,
returned to Cornwallis Island in the Canadian Arctic for further
excavations. Mr. Taylor’s collections, including Thule and Dorset
culture materials, with notes and photographs, were received by Dr.
Collins for inclusion in the final report on the Cornwallis Island work.
Preliminary reports on the first two seasons’ excavations on Cornwallis
Island were published in the annual reports of the National Museum of
Canada for the fiscal years 1949-50 and 1950-51. A general article,
“The Origin and Antiquity of the Eskimo,” summarizing the present
evidence of archeology, physical anthropology, and linguistics, was
published in the 1950 Smithsonian Annual Report. A paper on the
present status of the Dorset culture, with special emphasis on new
evidence from Greenland and Alaska, which was presented at the
December 1951 meeting of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, will be included in a volume on American archeology
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

being published by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological
Research. At the meeting of the Society for American Archaeology
in May 1952 Dr. Collins presented a paper summarizing and evaluating
the results of radiocarbon dating in the Arctic in the light of the arche-
ological evidence, and including an interpretation of the ancient
Denbigh Flint Complex of Alaska, its Old World connections and age,
and its relationships to Folsom, Yuma, and Eskimo. The paper will
appear in the January issue of American Antiquity. An article on
the progress of anthropology in 1951 was prepared for the Encyclo-
paedia Britannica and another on the Races of Asia for the Ency-
clopaedia Hebraica. He also edited Science in Alaska, a volume of
selected papers presented at the First Alaskan Science Conference held
in Washington in November 1950 under the auspices of the National
Academy of Sciences-National Research Council. The volume was
published by the Arctic Institute of North America and contains
papers on Alaskan anthropology, agriculture, botany, geology and
geography, geophysics, meteorology, public health, and zoology. Dr.
Collins continued to serve as chairman of the directing committee
supervising preparation of Arctic Bibliography, a comprehensive, an-
notated, and indexed bibliography of English and foreign-language
publications in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub-Are-
tic regions of America, Siberia, and Europe. The bibliography is
being assembled by the Arctic Institute of North America under con-
tract with the Office of Naval Research with funds from the Depart-
ments of the Army and the Navy, and the Defense Research Board
of Canada. At the end of the fiscal year material for a supplemental
volume of about 900 pages was completed and ready for the printer.
Proofreading continues on the initial six volumes of similar size now
at the Government Printing Office.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. John P. Harrington was
in México engaged in studying the Maya language. On his return
to Washington he completed the preparation of a grammar and dic-
tionary of the Maya language, with the assistance of a Maya informant,
Domingo Canton Aguilar, whom he brought to Washington for that
purpose. He also completed a monograph on the numeration sys-
tem of the Valladolid Maya Indians of Yucatan. Another paper
he completed during the fiscal year was on the first vocabulary of
the Virginia Indians, compiled by William Strachey in 1612. The
original of this vocabulary is in the Bodleian Library at Oxford,
England.

At the beginning of the fiscal year and until after Labor Day, Dr.
William N. Fenton was visiting professor of anthropology at the
University of Michigan. During his stay in Ann Arbor he examined
important historical papers relating to the political history of the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 59

Six Nations, or Iroquois, in the William L. Clements Library of the
University of Michigan. Returning to Washington in September,
Dr. Fenton resumed his research at the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy. He organized and conducted the Seventh Conference on Iro-
quois Research held at Red House, N. Y., October 5-7. In November
he participated in a symposium on the training of professional anthro-
pologists, which was held on the occasion of the annual meetings
of the American Anthropological Association. Late in November
Dr. Fenton was called to the National Research Council to organize
a national conference on disaster studies, in which he participated
on December 6. He resigned his position with the Bureau to accept
an appointment as executive secretary of the Division of Anthro-
pology and Psychology at the National Research Council and began
his duties on January 1, 1952.

Dr. Philip Drucker reported for duty as general anthropologist
on January 8, 1952, immediately following his release to inactive duty
by the United States Navy. On February 15 he proceeded to México
D. F., for a period of 6 weeks, which he spent studying the large
offering of artifacts of jade and similar materials excavated in 1941
at Cerro de las Mesas by the National Geographic-Smithsonian
Institution archeological project. This collection is housed in the
National Museum of Mexico. On his return to Washington he pre-
pared a descriptive monograph on the collection, which was ready
to be submitted to the Director of the Bureau at the end of
the fiscal year. In addition, Dr. Drucker continued his studies of
Meso-American archeology in general.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS
(Report prepared by FRANK H. H. Rozerts, Jr.)

The River Basin Surveys, organized in the autumn of 1945 as a unit
of the Bureau of American Ethnology to carry into effect a memo-
randum of understanding between the Smithsonian Institution and
the National Park Service, continued its operations throughout the
year. The memorandum provides for the salvage of archeological
and paleontological materials that would otherwise be lost as a resuit
of numerous projects for flood control and irrigation, hydroelectric
installations, and navigation improvements in the river basins of the
United States. As in the past, the investigations were conducted in
cooperation with the National Park Service and the Bureau of
Reclamation of the Department of the Interior, the Corps of Engi-
neers of the Department of the Army, and a number of nongovern-
mental local institutions. The operations as a whole are called the
Anter-Agency Archeological and Paleontological Salvage Program.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The work of the River Basin Surveys in the past fiscal year was
financed by a transfer of $156,403 to the Smithsonian Institution
by the National Park Service. Of that amount $120,783 was for
investigations in the Missouri Basin and $35,620 was for all other
areas where projects were under way. The money comprising those
funds was derived in part from the Bureau of Reclamation and in
part from the National Park Service. Carry-over of previous funds
provided an additional $77,576 for the Missouri Basin and $350 for
other areas. The total of all funds available for the year was $234,329.
Because of a delay in the passage of the appropriation bill it was
necessary to suspend operations outside the Missouri Basin during
July and August.

Activities in the field consisted of reconnaissance or surveys for
the purpose of locating archeological sites and paleontological
deposits that will be involved in construction work or are so situated
that they will be flooded, and in the excavation of sites observed and
recorded by previous surveys. In contrast to former years there was
greater emphasis on excavation. This was because of the fact that
the survey parties were finally catching up with the over-all program
and there were fewer proposed reservoir areas needing attention.
Archeological survey parties visited 10 new reservoir basins located
in 6 States and a paleontological party made preliminary investiga-
tions at 6 reservoirs in 8 States. In addition a number of reservoirs
where previous preliminary surveys had been made were revisited
for further checking. At the end of the fiscal year excavations were
completed or under way in 13 reservoir areas in 11 States. There
were 22 excavating parties in the field during the course of the year.
Six of the excavating projects were in areas where there had been no
previous digging, but the remainder were a continuation of investi-
gations at reservoir projects where there had been other operations.
At the close of the fiscal year the total of the reservoir areas where
archeological surveys had been made or excavations carried on since
the start of the actual field work in the summer of 1946 was 235
located in 25 States. The survey parties have located and reported
3,105 archeological sites, and of that number 578 have been recom-
mended for excavation or limited testing. Preliminary appraisal
reports were completed for all the reservoirs surveyed. Some,
together with others finished near the end of the previous fiscal
year, were mimeographed for limited distribution to the cooperating
agencies. During the year 15 such reports were distributed, bring-
ing to 149 the total issued since the start of the program. The
discrepancy between the latter figure and the total number of reser-
voirs is due to the fact that in some cases a series of reservoirs is
included in a single report covering a subbasin, while in others the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 61

completed manuscripts had not yet been mimeographed at the close
of the year. Excavations made during the year brought the total
for reservoir basins where such work has been done to 38, located in
17 States. Reports on some of that work have been published in
various scientific journals, and eight such papers are now in press
as a Bulletin of the Bureau of American Ethnology. The technical
reports on two other excavation projects have been finished. Paleon-
tological surveys have been made in 121 reservoir areas, 86 of them
being those where archeological work has also been done. Eventually
the other 35 will be visited by archeological parties. The total of all
reservoir basins surveyed, including those where archeological work
still remains to be done, is 270.

As of June 30, 1952, the reservoir projects which had been surveyed
for archeological remains were distributed by States as follows:
California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 4; Idaho, 11; Illinois, 2;
Towa, 3; Kansas, 7; Kentucky, 1; Louisiana, 1; Minnesota, 1; Mon-
tana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 18; Ohio, 2;
Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania, 2; South Dakota, 9; Tennes-
see, 1; Texas, 19; Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West Virginia, 2;
Wyoming, 21. Excavations have been made or were being made in
reservoir areas in: California, 5; Colorado, 1; Georgia, 3; Kansas, 1;
Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 3; Okla-
homa, 2; Oregon, 2; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 3; Texas, ae
Virginia, 1; Washington, 3; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, 2. The
foregoing figures refer only to the work of the River Basin Surveys or
that which was done in direct cooperation with local institutions.
Projects carried on by local institutions alone or in direct cooperation
with the National Park Service are not included because complete
information about them was not available.

Throughout the year the River Basin Surveys continued to recelve
helpful cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of
Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, and numerous State and local
institutions. Ata number of projects guides and transportation were
furnished to staff members in the field. ‘Temporary office and labora-
tory space was provided at others, and on several occasions labor and
mechanical equipment were made available by the construction agency.
Such assistance speeded up the work of the field men and made pos-
sible greater accomplishment than would otherwise have been the
case. The National Park Service continued to serve as the liaison
between the various agencies both in Washington and through its
several regional offices and provided the Smithsonian Institution with
necessary information about the locations for proposed dams and
reservoirs and construction priorities. Furthermore, the National
Park Service primarily was responsible for obtaining the funds which
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

made the operations possible. The progress of the program as a
whole was greatly furthered by the enthusiastic help of Park Service
personnel,

General direction and supervision of the work in California, Geor-
gia, and Virginia were from the main office in Washington. In the
Columbia Basin the program was directed from a field office and
laboratory at Eugene, Oreg.; that in the Missouri Basin was under
the supervision of a field office and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr.; and
that in Texas was under a field office and laboratory at Austin. The
materials collected by the survey and excavating parties in those three
areas were processed at the respective field laboratories. The collec-
tions made in Georgia were processed at a laboratory in Athens.

At the end of the fiscal year a change was made in the plan of
operations for the Inter-Agency Salvage Program. The work of the
River Basin Surveys was terminated in the Columbia Basin and Pacific
coast areas, in the Southwest including Texas, and in Georgia and
other portions of the Southeast. With the beginning of the new
fiscal year the direction and supervision of the investigations in those
areas were to be under the National Park Service with its respective
regional offices in direct charge. At the close of the year arrange-
ments were being made to transfer certain of the River Basin Surveys’
personnel to the National Park Service and for the latter agency to
take over the various field headquarters.

Washington office —Throughout the fiscal year the main headquar-
ters of the River Basin Surveys continued under the direction of
Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, Joseph R. Caldwell, and
Ralph S. Solecki, archeologists, were based on that office. Because of
lack of funds for work outside the Missouri Basin, however, Miller
was assigned to the Missouri Basin project during July, August, and
September, and Caldwell was on leave without pay until Septem-
ber 10, 1952. Solecki was on leave of absence with an expedition to
Iraq for most of the year, returning to duty with the surveys in May.

Mr. Miller’s activities in the Missouri Basin are discussed in that
section of this report. During the fall and winter months at the
Washington office he completed his technical paper on the excavations
he supervised at the Allatoona Reservoir in Georgia during an earlier
fiscal year and processed specimens from sites which he dug at the
John H. Kerr (formerly called Buggs Island) Reservoir the latter
part of the previous fiscal year. In May he returned to the John H.
Kerr Reservoir area on the Roanoke River in southern Virginia and
carried on test excavations at a number of sites. That work was
completed on June 30 and Mr. Miller returned to Washington. The
gates of the dam were scheduled to be closed early in July, and no
further investigations are planned for that area.

a aed ie eet ea ee Mee Eee
SECRETARY'S REPORT 63

Early in August Mr. Caldwell received word that an important
site located a short distance above the Clark Hill Dam on the Savan-
nah River, Ga., would be inundated well in advance of the date
originally indicated by the engineers. With funds provided by the
Smithsonian Institution and the University of Georgia and with the
help of the resident engineer of the Corps of Engineers, he started
excavations on the 18th of the month and continued to dig until he
and his party were driven out by water at the end of October. When
Federal funds became available in September the River Basin Sur-
veys took over the financing of the project. During January and Feb-
ruary Mr. Caldwell carried on test excavations at the remains of Fort
Charlotte at the upper end of the Clark Hill Reservoir in South Caro-
lina. While at his headquarters at Athens, Mr. Caldwell completed
five preliminary reports and made considerable progress on the final
technical report of his part of the excavations at the Allatoona Reser-
voir. The report on Fort Charlotte was mimeographed and ready
for distribution at the close of the fiscal year. An article on work
completed a previous fiscal year, “The Booger Bottom Mound: A
Forsyth Period Site in Hall County, Ga.,” was published in Ameri-
can Antiquity, volume 17, No. 4, April 1952. Mr. Caldwell’s employ-
ment by the River Basin Surveys was terminated as of June 30, 1952,
by his transfer to the National Park Service.

Dr. Theodore E. White, geologist, divided his time between the
Washington office and the Missouri Basin. He spent the winter and
early spring months in Washington cleaning, identifying, and cata-
loging specimens he had collected during the field season. He also
identified four lots of mammal bones from archeological excavations
along the Columbia River, and four lots of bones from the Missouri
Basin which were sent to Washington for that purpose. He com-
pleted a manuscript, “Preliminary Analysis of the Vertebrate Fossil
Fauna of the Canyon Ferry Reservoir Area,” which was accepted for
publication in the Proceedings of the United States National Museum,
and two papers on observations on the butchering techniques of ab-
original peoples as indicated by the bones from the refuse deposits at
archeological sites. One paper, “Preliminary Analysis of the Verte-
brate Fossil Fauna of the Boysen Reservoir Area,” was published in
the Proceedings of the United States National Museum, volume 102,
No. 3296, April 1952. Another, “Observations on the Butchering
Technique of Some Aboriginal Peoples, I,” appeared in American
Antiquity, volume 17, No. 4, April 1952. A third, “Suggestions for
Facilitating Identification of Animal Bone from Archeological
Sites,” was printed in the Plains Archeological Conference News
Letter, volume 5, No. 1, May 1952. In May Dr. White left Washing-
_ton to continue his field investigations in the Missouri Basin.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

After his return to active duty Mr. Solecki spent the time until
June 30 working on manuscripts and reports. He also made prepara-
tions for an aerial survey of certain reservoir areas in the Missouri
Basin and was to proceed to the latter area at the beginning of the
new fiscal year.

California.—The only work in California during the fiscal year was
at the Cachuma Reservoir on the Santa Ynez River in Santa Barbara
County. From April 28 to June 30 Albert D. Mohr, field assistant,
supervised excavations at two sites. At one of them a cemetery be-
longing to what is called the Hunting Culture, the middle stage of a
three-culture sequence, was dug, and in addition the remains of a house
belonging to the same horizon were uncovered. ‘The latter are of par-
ticular interest because only two such structures were known pre-
viously and the one discovered this year has added considerable
information with respect to construction methods. Opening of graves
in the cemetery produced skeletal material useful in determining the
physical characteristics of the people and also good data on burial
customs. The other site, also mainly a burial ground, belongs to a
later horizon probably attributable to the Chumash.

A report by Martin A. Baumhoff, field assistant the previous year, on
the investigations at the Cachuma Reservoir in late fiscal 1951 was
completed early in June 1952 and the manuscript is now available for
publication. A summary report on the results of the excavations
made at the Terminus Reservoir on the Kaweah River in Tulare
County was completed by Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, during the
autumn months and was published in American Antiquity, volume 17,
No. 4, April 1952.

As indicated in the preliminary section of this report, the River
Basin Surveys will have no further projects in California, as the
operations there are to be under the direction and supervision of the
Region Four office of the National Park Service.

Columbia Basin.—The field oflice at Eugene, Oreg., was closed from
July 1 to September 10 because of lack of funds, and during that
period there were no activities in the region. After the office was
reopened and until the close of the fiscal year the operations for the
Columbia Basin were, as in the previous year, under the supervision
of Joel L. Shiner. Office and laboratory work during the fall and
winter months was mainly concerned with the processing, study, and
cataloging of materials from the surveys and excavations of the pre-
vious year. Most of the materials and data were from a habitation
site in the McNary Reservoir area which had been buried beneath a
thick mantle of volcanic ash which is estimated to be several thousand
years old. A summary report on the results of that excavation was
finished, mimeographed, and distributed to the operating agencies.
Study of the materials from another site in the McNary area, a village

SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

of late prehistoric and early historic times, was also completed and a
summary report finished. The latter was mimeographed and dis-
tributed in June.

Late in October Mr. Shiner made a brief investigation at the site
of The Dalles Dam on the Columbia River and in March made an
exhaustive survey of the area to be flooded. A brief preliminary re-
port was issued after the first visit, while a second and more detailed
one was written and mimeographed following the investigations in
March. The survey showed that there were 10 sites and that 3 were
worthy of further investigation. One of them is a very large mound
with stratified deposits some 15 feet in depth. It offers one of the best
opportunities along the Columbia River for obtaining evidence on the
sequence of cultural development. This mound, the Wakemap, is in
danger from two sources, flooding and looting by private collectors.
The situation with respect to unauthorized digging was so critical that
plans were being made to start excavations there shortly after the be-
ginning of the new fiscal year. Two other sites in the area were tested
later in the spring and one of them proved to be much deeper and
richer in artifacts than had been anticipated. One test pit, 5 feet
square, yielded large numbers of flaked-stone tools and “fetish” stones
and reached a depth of 13 feet. More extended excavations at that
location are indicated.

From April 7 to 19 Mr. Shiner carried on test excavations at three
sites in the McNary area. One of them consisted of an occupation
level underlying the same layer of volcanic ash as that covering the
site worked the previous year. The findings corroborated those oi
the previous year and in addition the digging produced several new
artifact types. At another it appeared that the Indians who had
occupied it moved in shortly after the fall of the ash. The interval
represented by the ash layer will help to explain certain differences
in the artifacts and provides a good basis for establishing relative
dating in the district. Excavations at the third site proved fruitless.
The latter part of April Mr. Shiner moved his field party to the Albeni
Falls Reservoir project on the Pend Oreille River in Idaho for the
purpose of testing a number of sites in that basin. The occupational
debris at the various locations was found to be so shallow, however,
that extensive digging was not warranted. Consequently the party
spent several days making surface collections. A good series of
specimens was obtained which will be useful in extending the known
distribution of types. The data collected indicate that the area
never had a permanent population. It apparently was a place where
various groups of Indians spent their summers hunting, fishing, and
gathering food.

_ After returning to the office Mr. Shiner devoted most of his time
to processing the artifacts collected in the field. Over 1,500 were
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

cleaned and cataloged. A report on the investigations at Albeni
Falls was completed and one on the test digging at The Dalles was
practically finished by the end of the year. A collection of specimens
from a previous year’s digging in the McNary Reservoir was packed
and shipped to Washington.

Four articles pertaining to the results of previous work in the
Columbia Basin were published in American Antiquity, volume 17,
No. 4, April 1952. They were: “The 1950 Excavations at Site 45BN6
McNary Reservoir, Wash.,” by Joel L. Shiner; “Material Culture of
an Upper Coulee Rock-shelter,” by John E. Mills and Carolyn
Osborne; “Archeological Investigations in the Chief Joseph Reser-
voir,” by Douglas Osborne, Robert Crabtree, and Alan Bryan; and
“Archeological Investigations in O’Sullivan Reservoir, Grant County,
Wash.,” by Richard D. Daugherty.

Mr. Shiner’s affiliation with the River Basin Surveys terminated on
June 30 by transfer to the National Park Service. The River Basin
Surveys office at Eugene was to be kept open, however, by the National
Park Service, and Mr. Shiner was to be permitted to complete his
reports on the work he did for the Smithsonian Institution. The
River Basin Surveys will have no further operations in that area.

Georgia.—As in the case of the Columbia Basin, field work in the
Georgia area was handicapped by the delay in obtaining funds and
the limited amount of money available for the project. During the
period from August 18 until the end of October an emergency co-
operative excavation project, as described in an earlier section of
this report, was carried on at the Lake Springs site on the Savannah
River just above the Clark Hill Dam. A large sample of archaic
material representing a prepottery horizon called the Savannah River
Focus of the Stalling’s Island Culture was obtained there together
with a small series of contemporary crania showing a population of
both round- and long-headed individuals. The most important dis-
covery at the site, however, was a new early culture deep below the
archaic levels. This new manifestation, which has been designated
the Old Quartz Culture, showed an artifact assemblage similar to
those which had been found at a large number of open stations in
Piedmont Georgia and South Carolina. They have been regarded
as probably early but could not be so proven until the discovery of
the stratigraphy at Lake Springs. Unfortunately, the rising waters
of the Clark Hill Reservoir flooded the excavation pits before as
much work had been done as was desired, but the results obtained
are a definite contribution to the archeology of the region.

In late January and February test excavations were carried on in
the remains of Fort Charlotte at the upper end of the Clark Hill
Reservoir in South Carolina. Although located in the latter State

SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

the investigations were considered as part of the over-all Georgia
project. The outline of the fort was traced and a few minor arti-
facts were recovered. The fort had been a masonry structure erected
in 1765 as a defense against the Creek and Cherokee Indians who were
prone to raid the Scotch-Irish, French Huguenot, and German settle-
ments in the Long Canes region of upper Carolina. Its seizure by
patriot forces in 1775 was the first overt act of revolution in the
southern colonies. American possession of the fort throughout the
struggle was of considerable importance in holding the loyalties of
the inhabitants of upper Carolina during the troubled times that
followed. The recent excavations there give information about the
physical nature of the fort and its location which was not available
in documentary records. Underlying the occupation level of the
fort were Indian materials indicating that the location had also been
a place where the aborigines held forth. Pottery fragments suggest
that the Creeks were the tribe involved. There is no question but
what the Indian material is some years, possibly a good many, older
than the fort and that the site was deserted at the time it was chosen
for the location of Fort Charlotte.

There will be no further work in Georgia under the direction and
supervisions of the River Basin Surveys, unless there are further
changes in present plans. As indicated earlier in this report Mr. Cald-
well’s employment terminated on June 30 and he was transferred to
the National Park Service. He will be permitted, however, to com-
plete his technical reports on work done under the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and the manuscripts will be turned over to the River Basin
Surveys.

Missouri Basin—The Missouri Basin project as in previous years
continued to operate from the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr.
Paul L. Cooper served as director for the program in that area from
July 1 until February 28 when, in accordance with his request to
be relieved of administrative duties, Ralph D. Brown took charge.
Certain changes were made in the organization at that time and Mr.
Brown was designated as chief of the Missouri Basin project, the old
title of field director being dropped. Mr. Cooper remained with the
organization and was assigned to the position of consulting archeolo-
gist. The trend toward more excavation and less reconnaissance or
survey work, started the previous year, continued and increased in
fiscal 1952. This is attributable to the fact that much has been ac-
complished in the survey portion of the program and there is less
need for that kind of activity than in previous years. Furthermore,
the available funds were sufficient to provide for extensive excavations.
During the course of the year the staff was able to devote a greater
“proportion of its time to the study of data and specimens and in the
preparation of technical reports.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

During the year archeological surveys were conducted in five new
reservoir areas of which three were in Wyoming, one was in Montana,
and one in Nebraska—South Dakota. Others where the preliminary
reconnaissance had not been completed were revisited and a total of
115 new sites was recorded. In the 1951 field season archeological
excavations were made in four reservoir areas by seven different units.
By the end of June 1952 there again were seven archeological excava-
tion parties working i in four reservoir areas, three of them the same
as in the previous year. Digging at the Keyhole Reservoir in Wyo-
ming was completed in 1951 and excavations in the Jamestown Reser-
voir in North Dakota were started in 1952. The other three are
Fort Randall and Oahe in South Dakota, and Garrision in North
Dakota. During the year there were paleontological investigations
in 12 reservoir areas. An archeological survey party was scheduled
to start for the field in late June but because of an emergency was
delayed and its departure rescheduled for the first week in July.

At the Fort Randall Reservoir in South Dakota the 1951 excava-
tions were at an Indian site and at a historic trading-post site. The
Indian site is of particular interest because it represents three occupa-
tional periods. One was a fortified earth-lodge village, one an unfor-
tified earth-lodge village, and the third an occupational area under-
lying both of the others. In the fortified area 7 earth lodges, a smaller
structure, 450 feet of stockade trench, 11 cache pits, and 22 refuse
areas were exposed and excavated. In the unfortified earth-lodge
area, one circular earth lodge, one cache pit, and four refuse pits were
unearthed. In May 1952 excavations were resumed in the unfortified
area and before the end of June had exposed 2 earth lodges, a refuse
midden, and 19 exterior pits. The date of the fortified village was
earlier and the occupational area beneath much older still. Comple-
tion of the work at that location will provide an excellent sequence
of materials leading up to the development of fortified villages in
that district.

The historic work in the Fort Randall Reservoir in 1951 was at the
location of the Fort Lookout trading post. The occupational level
of the post was established. Charred beams used in construction,
sections of vertical posts still in place, and other architectural fea-
tures were uncovered, along with numerous specimens of trade goods.
Two Indian occupational levels antedating the establishment of the
trading post and the nearby fort were found beneath the ruins of
the post. They are of interest because they produced materials not
previously known in that part of South Dakota. In May 1952 historic
investigations were resumed, but they were at the site of the Whetstone
agency which was established for the Brule and Ogallala bands of
Sioux from the Fort Laramie region by a treaty drawn in April

SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

1868. By 1869 about 1,000 Indians were living there, and by 1870 the
number had increased to about 2,250. One year later the Indians
were moved to a new location but the agency buildings continued in
use through the later 1870’s as a steamboat landing for supplies to be
conveyed overland to Indian agencies in the interior. Little is known
about the physical characteristics of the agency or of the Indian
camp, and digging there should provide interesting data to augment
the documentary records. By the end of June floor areas had been
uncovered and cedar post butts in palisade trenches were exposed.
Work at that site is scheduled to continue until it is completed, which
probably will be at about the end of the current field season.

In the Oahe Reservoir area during the 1951 field season excavations
were carried on at two Indian sites. One of them is located just
below the dam in an area which will ultimately be destroyed by con-
struction activities, while the other is several miles upstream on the
west bank just below the point where the Cheyenne River empties into
the Missouri. At the first location, known as the Phillips Ranch site,
5 earth lodges and 47 cache pits were uncovered, 2 trenches were dug
across the fortification ditch which surrounded the village, and the
refuse-bearing overburden was stripped from approximately one-
eighth of the village area. During the previous year 5 lodges and
46 cache pits had been dug, so the total for the village was 10 houses
and 96 cache pits. A large collection of specimens was obtained there,
the most outstanding probably being a few small fragments of coiled
basketry. The latter is extremely rare in archeological sites in the
Plains area. The data obtained from the site provided the basis for
establishing a previously unrecognized cultural complex for the dis-
trict. It appears to date from the early part of the eighteenth cen-
tury and almost certainly represents the protohistoric Arikara
occupation of the area. Excavations at the Phillips Ranch site have
been completed.

The other site, known as the Cheyenne River village, was only par-
tially dug and will be completed at a later date. The work there
consisted of the excavation and mapping of four house sites (a fifth
was nearly finished when heavy storms flooded it so badly that it had
to be abandoned) and the digging of cache pits. Cultural materials
from house sites and cache pits were recovered in large quantities
and preliminary studies indicate that they will provide much new
information about the arts and industries of their makers.

The 1952 excavations in the Oahe Reservoir were started at new
sites. One of them, which had been partly destroyed by construction
activities, is on the east bank of the Missouri River opposite the
Phillips Ranch site, while the other, which represents a large village,
is located not far downstream from the Cheyenne River village.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Work had not progressed sufficiently at either location by the end of
the fiscal year to indicate what results might be expected.

At the Garrison Reservoir in North Dakota two excavating parties
spent the 1951 field season digging in Indian and historic sites. At
one Indian village location the remains of 8 circular houses, 4 sweat
lodges, 48 cache pits, and numerous other miscellaneous features were
uncovered. The artifact yield was good, including uncommon stea-
tite fragments from bowls made from that material. The bowls
probably reached the area by trade from the west. They may have
come up the Columbia and down the Missouri as that was a main
aboriginal trade route. During the 1950 field season at that location
five houses were excavated and the palisade and moat were traced.
The combined data for the two seasons give a satisfactory story of the
village and its material culture. The village was reputedly occupied in
the late eighteenth century by the Hidatsa Indians and is particularly
interesting because it presumably was the most northerly of the forti-
fied earth-lodge communities belonging to the period preceding the
replacement of aboriginal material culture by trade goods obtained
from the white man. The other site investigated had also been a
fortified village. Five houses and parts of a sixth were excavated
there, and a ceremonial structure 72 feet in diameter, a large village
gateway, and several other features were found. Cross sections were
taken of the surrounding defensive ditch. This site, believed to have
been occupied chiefly by the Arikara Indians, produced relatively
few artifacts but it throws valuable light on the architecture and
community plan of the period. In June 1952 an excavating party
proceeded to the Night Walker’s Butte to begin digging the remains
of one of the few known Indian villages located on top of a butte.

The historic-sites party spent the period from July 1 to October 7,
1951, in the excavation of Fort Stevenson, a mile above the Garrison
Reservoir dam site. The foundations of five of the more important
military buildings and of several minor ones were traced and a con-
siderable quantity of materials was obtained. Fort Stevenson was a
typical Missouri River frontier post and was built to keep the river
open for navigation and to protect the Fort Berthold Indians from the
Sioux. In addition the post served as one of the main points on the
overland mail route which ran from St. Paul to Montana. Although
the fort was started in 1867 and was completed late in 1868 and there
are considerable documentary data about it, useful new information
pertinent to the actual character of the post and certain Indian rela-
tionships was obtained during the course of the work. Before stop-
ping for the season the Fort Stevenson party made tests in a trading-
post site at the mouth of the White Earth River and obtained some
trade goods. The historic-sites party returned to the Garrison area
in June 1952 and began work at a site in the Fort Berthold district.

ee ee
SECRETARY'S REPORT 71

From July 1 to September 25, 1951, six key sites were excavated in
the Keyhole Reservoir on the Belle Fourche River in Crook County,
Wyo. The excavated sites include one large protohistoric camp with
pottery remains, three prehistoric camp sites, and two stratified rock
shelters. The lowest levels in both rock shelters are manifestations
of a new early-man complex. The data indicate that the aboriginal
occupation of the Keyhole area may have started about 5,000 years ago.
Much more recent materials were found in the upper levels and in a
few cases there were potsherds from vessels of the so-called Woodland
types. The latter are significant because they extend considerably
westward the known range of that kind of Indian pottery. ‘The in-
vestigations at the Keyhole Reservoir have been completed.

The Jamestown Reservoir on the river of the same name in North
Dakota was listed for investigation for the first time since the start
of the program. A survey party was supposed to make a reconnais-
sance there in the fall of 1951 but because of bad weather was unable
to do so. As a consequence a combined survey and excavating party
went there in May 1952. After 3 weeks’ preliminary examination of
the area and 18 sites had been located, excavations were started in a
mound 75 feet in diameter and 10 feet in height located on a bluff,
and in some house remains on the bottom lands. The mounds in that
portion of North Dakota show considerable similarity to those in
northern Minnesota and southern Manitoba and all probably belong
to the same cultural complex. The actual people involved have not
been identified as yet, and as little is known about the character of
the remains the results of the investigations there should add mate-
rially to knowledge about the Indians. The work there had not
progressed sufficiently by June 30 to permit a statement about the
findings.

During the 1951 field season the paleontological party visited and
collected in five reservoir areas, two in Montana, one in North Dakota,
and two in South Dakota. In exploring the Oligocene and Miocene
deposits in the Canyon Ferry Reservoir basin in Montana the party
added two genera of small mammals to the known fauna of the Oligo-
cene and six genera of those of the Miocene. While the sediments of
the Montana group of the the Upper Cretaceous were being studied
near the dam for the Oahe Reservoir, S. Dak., the first nearly complete
skeleton of one of the pygmy species of mosasaur, genus Clidastes,
ever obtained was found. The 1952 field season’s work started with
a preliminary reconnaissance of the Tuttle Creek and Lovewell Reser-
voir basins in the Kansas River drainage, Kansas, and was followed
by surveys of three reservoir areas in the Platte Drainage. They
were the Narrows in Colorado, and the Ashton and Trenton in
-Nebraska. Preliminary prospecting was also carried on at the Gavins
236639536
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Point Reservoir on the Missouri River in Nebraska and South Dakota.
The first of June found the party at the Keyhole Reservoir in Wyo-
ming exploring Cretaceous sediments and the latest report is that
most of the skeleton of a small plesiosaur was found in the New-
castle member of the Granerose shale, the first record of vertebrate
remains from that formation. On June 25 the party moved to the
Canyon Ferry Reservoir in Montana and was just starting work there
at the end of the fiscal year.

During the course of the year seven preliminary appraisal reports
were completed, mimeographed, and distributed to the cooperating
agencies; four were completed and are ready for mimeographing;
and two supplements to previous reports were finished and are await-
ing mimeographing. Four short articles on specific subjects in Plains
archeology were prepared by members of the staff and published
in the Plains Archeological Conference News Letter. Two articles
were published in American Antiquity and one report appeared in
the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. One technical report
on excavations in the Oahe area was completed and the first drafts
of those on two others have been finished.

The laboratory at Lincoln processed 87,935 specimens from 170
sites in 18 reservoir areas and 2 sites not in reservoir areas. The
work in the laboratory also included: reflex copies of record sheets,
91,444; contact prints made, 8,826; negatives, 2,036; enlargements,
1,326; specimens drawn for illustrations, 872; color transparencies
cataloged, 321; drawings, tracings, maps made, 112.

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, was in charge of the survey
and excavation of aboriginal archeological sites at the Fort Randall
Reservoir in South Dakota from July 1 to November 6 and from
May 19 to the end of the fiscal year. During the winter months at
the Lincoln headquarters Mr. Cumming worked on the technical re-
port on the Oldham site, the scene of most of his activities during the
1951 summer field season.

Paul L. Cooper, archeologist, served as field director for the Mis-
souri Basin activities during the period from July 1 to February 28.
On the latter date he became consulting archeologist for the project.
During the spring months Mr. Cooper devoted considerable time to
discussing the project with Mr. Brown, the new chief, and in con-
sultation with other members of the staff on archeological procedures
in the laboratory. He completed a report of progress for the period
from the beginning of the project in 1946 through April 1952 for
the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee. He also worked on
a more detailed report covering the calendar years 1950 and 1951. He
met with the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee at its April
session where he evaluated the progress made to that date by the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 73

River Basin Surveys of the Smithsonian Institution and took part in
a discussion of the future needs of the salvage program. Mr. Cooper
served as the chairman of the Ninth Conference for Plains Arche-
ology, which met at Lincoln in April. On June 6 he left Lincoln
for the Oahe Reservoir in South Dakota and at the end of the fiscal
year was directing a party excavating aboriginal sites along the Mis-
souri below the mouth of the Cheyenne River.

Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, was in charge of a reconnaissance
party from the beginning of the fiscal year until September when he
returned to the Lincoln office. During the field season his party
visited 15 proposed reservoir areas. Probably the most interesting
part of the season was that devoted to a boat trip down the Bighorn
River Canyon in Wyoming-Montana to examine the area of the pro-
posed Yellowtail Reservoir. On June 8 he went to the Oahe Reservoir
and started a series of excavations near the dam site a few miles above ‘
Pierre, S. Dak. Those activities were well under way by June 30.
During the months spent at the headquarters in Lincoln Mr. Fenenga
prepared preliminary appraisal reports for seven reservoir projects.
He presented two papers before the Ninth Conference for Plains
Archeology, and served as editor of the News Letter for that contfer-
ence. He was reelected to that office for the year 1952-53. He also read
a paper before the 62d annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of
Sciences. During the 1952 meeting of the Academy he served as acting
chairman of the anthropological section and was elected its chairman
for 1953. Mr. Fenenga had two papers published during the year:
“The Archeology of Slick Rock Village, Tulare County, California,”
American Antiquity, volume 17, No. 4, April 1922, and “The Wabino,
a One-time Rival of the Midewiwin,” Proceedings of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences, 62d Annual Meeting, 1952.

Donald D. Hartle, archeologist, was in charge of an excavating
party at the Rock Village site in the Garrison Reservoir area of North
Dakota from July 1 to August 20. From August 20 to October 27
he directed the excavations at the Star site in the same reservoir basin.
The latter part of October, in collaboration with James H. Howard of
the North Dakota State Historical Society, he recorded 12 Indian
songs, including several of those known as “Custer” songs. Two
Arikara Indians, Jonie Fox and Davis Paint, did the singing for
Hartle and Howard. From November 1 to June 1, Hartle spent his
time at the Lincoln headquarters studying his materials from the Rock
Village and preparing a technical report on the results of his investi-
gations. Further work was contemplated at Rock Village and the
manuscript could not be finished until that was done. Hartle left
Lincoln on June 2 with a party to continue his studies at Rock Village
_ and by the end of the month had completed the additional excavations.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Mr. Hartle presented a paper on the investigations at Rock Village
before the Ninth Conference for Plains Archeology at Lincoln in
April.

Donald J. Lehmer, archeologist, conducted excavations from July 1
to September 10 at the Phillips Ranch site in the Oahe Reservoir near
Pierre, S. Dak. Returning to Lincoln from South Dakota Mr.
Lehmer devoted the period to December 31, when his appointment
with the River Basin Surveys terminated, to completing a technical
report on the results of two seasons’ work in the Oahe area. This
report, consisting of 250 manuscript pages, presents in detail the infor-
mation obtained from the Dodd and Phillips Ranch sites. Publica-
tion of the report is planned for the next fiscal year. In addition Mr.
Lehmer completed two shorter articles which were published in
American Antiquity for April 1952. One was “The Fort Pierre
Branch, Central South Dakota.” The other was on an Oklahoma
project and is referred to in a later section of this report.

George Metcalf, field and laboratory assistant, worked with the
Hartle party in the Garrison Reservoir during July and August. In
addition to taking an active part in the excavations he made a series
of surveys in the area and located a number of new sites. In Septem-
ber he joined the Smith party in the investigations at Fort Stevenson
and in October participated in a reconnaissance of the region adjacent
to Fort Stevenson. During the winter months he checked the survey
records and prepared a supplemental report on the archeological
resources of the Garrison Reservoir. He assisted in the analysis of
artifacts from the Rock Village and collaborated in the preparation
of the section of a technical report dealing with trade materials and
pottery. In May Mr. Metcalf made a survey of the Big Sandy Reser-
voir in the Eden Valley, western Wyoming. In June, during an
emergency, he took charge of one of the parties in the Oahe area for a
9-week period. On June 30 he was en route to join the party under
G. H. Smith in the Garrison Reservoir, N. Dak.

Carl F. Miller, archeologist, transferred to the Missouri Basin for
the season, spent the latter part of July, August, and until September
13 digging in a historic site in the Fort Randall Reservoir near Cham-
berlain, S. Dak. When the excavations were completed Mr. Miller
proceeded to Lincoln where he spent two weeks completing field records
and other data. From Lincoln he returned to his base at the Washing-
ton office where he finished his report on the summer’s activities.

John E. Mills joined the staff of the Missouri Basin project as
an archeologist on April 10, 1952. During April and May he ex-
amined and studied all the records and artifacts pertaining to historic-
site research in the Fort Randall Reservoir area and in May made a
brief survey trip through the reservoir basin with National Park
Service representatives of Region Two to determine what historic

SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

sites merited excavation. In early June he started excavations at
the site of the Whetstone Agency and was continuing operations
there at the end of the fiscal year.

James M. Shippee, field and laboratory assistant, spent the early
part of July with the Wheeler party at the Keyhole Reservoir in
Wyoming. The last 2 weeks of the month he joined the Fenenga
party for the boat trip through the Bighorn Canyon. He returned
to the Keyhole area in August and remained with the Wheeler party
until it returned to Lincoln in September. During the fall and win-
ter months he was occupied with various duties at the field head-
quarters. In March he spoke before the Great Bend chapter of the
Missouri Archeological Society and in May read a paper at the annual
meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences on salvage work at an
archeological site destroyed by flood prevention work near Kansas
City, Mo.

G. H. Smith, archeologist, spent the period from July 1 to October
1, 1951, excavating in the remains of Fort Stevenson. During that
period five of the more important building sites were completely or
largely excavated and there was some digging in a few lesser ones.
In October Mr. Smith, accompanied by George Metcalf, made a recon-
naissance in a previously unsurveyed part of the Garrison Reservoir.
Some test excavations were made at that time at the supposed site of
the fur-trading post of James Kipp. From October 28 to June 2, Mr.
Smith was at the Lincoln headquarters where he prepared a report on
the results of the Fort Stevenson investigations. The first draft was
completed and referred to the Chief for review. In May Mr. Smith
accompanied a party of National Park Service historians on a visit
to historic sites in the Gavins Point, Fort Randall, Oahe, and Garri-
son Reservoirs. In June he returned to the Garrison Reservoir and
started excavations at the supposed site of the original Fort Berthold,
and at Fort Atkinson, its successor, which is also known as Fort Ber-
thold II. By June 30 a section of the site of the latter had been
opened and considerable information was being obtained concerning
the post and Indian trade in general.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of the division of archeology, U. S.
National Museum, was detailed to the River Basin Surveys for the field
season of 1951. He directed excavations at the Cheyenne River
village site in the Oahe Reservoir area from June 21 to September 14.
During the winter months at his regular station in Washington Dr.
Wedel worked on the materials and data from the site. As there is
considerable more digging to be done there, however, it will not be
possible to write the detailed technical report until that has been
accomplished. :

Richard Page Wheeler, archeologist, spent the period from the start
of the fiscal year through September 25 excavating at sites in the Key-
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

hole Reservoir area in Crook County, Wyo. Returning to Lincoln,
Wheeler spent the autumn and winter months analyzing field data
and preparing a number of reports. He published a paper, “A Note
on the ‘McKean Lanceolate Point’ ” in the Plains Archeological Con-
ference News Letter, volume 4, No. 4, based on materials from sites
in the Keyhole Reservoir area. He presented a report on the Keyhole
investigations before the Ninth Conference for Plains Archeology in
April. Before starting for the field in June he completed two manu-
scripts: “Excavations and Survey in the Boysen Reservoir Area, Cen-
tral Wyoming” and “Plains Ceramic Analysis: A check-list of Fea-
tures and Descriptive Terms.” From the middle of June until the
end of the year Mr. Wheeler was in charge of a survey and excavation
party at the Jamestown Reservoir in North Dakota.

Dr. Theodore E. White, geologist, spent the period from July 1
to 8 exploring the Oligocene and Miocene deposits in the Canyon
Ferry Reservoir area in Montana. From July 10 to 21 he was at the
Tiber Reservoir in the same State studying the Colorado group of the
Upper Cretaceous. From July 22 to August 13 he examined the ex-
posures of the Paleocene Fort Union formation on the south side of
the Missouri River in the Garrison Reservoir in North Dakota. The
period from August 15 to September 8 was spent exploring the sedi-
ments of the Montana group of the Upper Cretaceous near the dam in
the Oahe Reservoir area. He then moved on to the Fort Randall
Reservoir and spent September 8 to 16 in the area near the dam. That
completed Dr. White’s field investigations for the 1951 season. His
activities during the winter months have already been discussed in con-
nection with the section on the Washington office. From May 15 to 21,
1952, he made a preliminary survey of the Tuttle Creek and Lovewell
Reservoirs in the Kansas River drainage, the Narrows, Trenton and
Ashton Reservoirs in the Platte drainage, and Gavins Point on the
Missouri River. From June 2 to 25 Dr. White examined the Cre-
taceous sediments in the Keyhole Reservoir and then moved on to the
Canyon Ferry Reservoir for further explorations in that area.

Oklahoma.—No field work was done in Oklahoma during the last
fiscal year. The technical report on the excavations of the previous
year at the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on the Illinois River, 15 miles
south of Tahlequah, was completed by Donald J. Lehmer. The report,
“The Turkey Bluff Focus of the Fulton Aspect,” was published in
American Antiquity, volume 17, No. 4, April 1952. No further work
will be done in Oklahoma by the River Basin Surveys of the Smith-
sonian Institution since it falls within one of the areas where the
investigations will be under the direction and supervision of the
National Park Service after July 1, 1952.

Texas.—The River Basin Surveys in Texas continued to operate
from the headquarters at Austin. The office, which was closed tempo-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 71%

rarily at the beginning of the fiscal year because of lack of funds, was
reopened on September 10 and functioned until June 30, 1952. Edward
B. Jelks, acting field director, was in charge during that period.

Field work in Texas consisted of surveys and excavations. Prelimi-
nary surveys and appraisals were made at the Colorado City Reservoir
on the Colorado River in Borden and Scurry Counties, at the Oak
Creek Reservoir in the same drainage in Coke County, at the Paint
Creek Reservoir on the Clear Fork of the Brazos River in Haskell
County, and at the Cooper Reservoir on the South Sulphur River in
Delta County. A total of 62 sites was found. In the Colorado City,
Oak Creek, and Paint Creek areas none of them appeared to be of
sufficient importance to warrant further investigations. At the Cooper
Reservoir, however, are a number of small mounds and several village
sites which give surface evidence of occupation by two cultural phases.
Six of the sites have been recommended for excavation.

Excavations were carried on in three sites at the Belton Reservoir
on the Leon River in Coryell County. Some work had been done there
in a previous year, but the current digging added much new informa-
tion. Artifacts from the Caddoan area to the east were found in asso-
ciation with material from the Central Texas and Edwards Plateau
cultural aspects. Analysis of the specimens makes it possible, by
cross-dating, to place the Central Texas aspect in its proper place in
the relative chronology for Texas.

In April, May, and June an excavating party investigated three
sites at the Texarkana Reservoir on the Sulphur River in Cass and
Bowie Counties. Adequate data were obtained to reconstruct the cul-
tural history of each. Twelve burials were found at one of the sites,
nine at another, and five at the third. The skeletal material will pro-
vide good information on the physical characteristics and possible
relationships of the people. When all the data from the excavations
have been studied and the report is completed a gap in the knowledge
of that Texas-Arkansas area will be filled. The results should have
an important bearing on the problem of Caddoan influences in the
eastern Texas region.

Four survey reports were completed for mimeographing during the
year. <A technical report, “Archeological Excavations at the Belton
Reservoir, Coryell County, Texas,” by Edward B. Jelks and E. O.
Miller, has been completed and will be published this fall in the
Bulletin of the Texas Archeological and Paleontological Society. A
general paper, “The River Basin Surveys Archeological Salvage Pro-
gram in Texas,” was prepared by Edward B. Jelks for the Texas
Journal of Science. One technical report, completed the previous
year, “The Hogge Bridge Site and the Wylie Focus,” by Robert L.
‘Stephenson, was published in American Antiquity, volume 17, No. 4,
April 1952.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The River Basin Surveys will do no further work in Texas since that
is one of the projects being taken over by the National Park Service
on July 1. Arrangements have been made, however, for the com-
pletion of the reports on the investigations made under the direction
and supervision of the River Basin Surveys and when the manuscripts
are received they will be published in accordance with previous plans.

Virginia.—All the work in Virginia during the past year was con-
cerned with the John H. Kerr Reservoir (formerly called Buggs
Island) on the Roanoke River. During the period from May 19 to
June 30, 1952, test excavations were made in seven sites. One had been
partially dug the previous year but a stratigraphic test as a counter-
check against the earlier results was deemed advisable. Data ob-
tained during the current activities augment those from other seasons,
filling in certain gaps and clarifying some obscure features. From
all the information now available a complete sequence of cultural de-
velopments from a relatively early prepottery stage to the late pre-
Colonial period can be described. No further work will be possible
at the John H. Kerr Reservoir as the gates of the dam will be closed
in July and the various sites will soon be flooded.

Sections of the technical report pertaining to sites that were exca-
vated in previous years have been completed. The writing of the
report on the current investigations and the summary and conclusions
should be completed before the end of the present calendar year.

Future work in Virginia depends upon the program of the Corps of
Engineers. There are proposed projects for the James and Shenan-
doah Valleys and when they are authorized investigations will be
needed in both. Indications are that two small reservoirs in the upper
James drainage may be started within the next year or two.

Cooperating institutions.—Various State and local institutions co-
operated with the River Basin Surveys as in previous years. The Uni-
versity of Washington and State College of Washington cooperated
in excavations in the Columbia Basin. Space for field offices and
laboratories for units of the surveys was provided by the Universities
of Nebraska, Oregon, Texas, and Georgia.

The program developed by the National Park Service whereby
various scientific agencies carried on salvage operations on the basis
of agreements between those agencies and the Service was continued
throughout the year. In some cases the agreements were signed in
the preceding year and in others the work provided for did not start
until after the close of the fiscal year. However, during fiscal 1952
such agreements were in force with the University of California, Uni-
versity of Washington, University of Oregon, State College of Wash-
ington, Montana State University, University of Missouri, University
of South Dakota, Nebraska State Historical Society, University of
Kansas, University of Wyoming, State Historical Society of North

SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

Dakota, University of Nebraska State Museum, University of Ne-
braska Laboratory of Anthropology, University of Oklahoma, Uni-
versity of Texas, the Museum of New Mexico, and the University of
Mississippi.
INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY
(Report prepared by Grorcre M. Fosrrr)

During the period under review one phase in the history of the In-
stitute of Social Anthropology drew to a close, and a new one began.
The Department of State informed the Smithsonian Institution on
September 28, 1951, that it would terminate its support on December
31, 1951. Following the abolition of the Inter-Departmental Com-
mittee on Scientific and Cultural Cooperation in 1949, under whose
auspices the Institute of Social Anthropology was established and its
work carried out, the Institute was placed under the Division of Inter-
national Exchange of Persons. Since the Institute did not form an
organic part of this program, the Department of State’s decision to
terminate support was not entirely unforeseen. During the period
July 1-December 31, 1951, operations were financed with a grant of
$42,000 from Public Law 402.

For some time there had been a growing feeling on the part of the
Institute personnel that the general factual knowledge it had accumu-
lated since 1944 should be put to some practical use. Therefore, in
the spring of 1951 anthropological analyses of health centers sponsored
by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministries of
Health in México, Colombia, Pert, and Brazil were carried out. The
results of this investigation were made available in mimeographed
form in July in a paper entitled “A Cross-Cultural Anthropological
Analysis of a Technical Aid Program,” which demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the ITAA that the anthropological knowledge and tech-
nical methods used by anthropologists would be useful in carrying
out United States Government technical aid programs in Latin
America. Accordingly, in a letter dated September 28, 1951, Dr.
Henry G. Bennett, Administrator, Technical Cooperation Administra-
tion, asked the Institute of Social Anthropology to integrate its activ-
ities with those of the ITAA, effective January 1, 1952. In response
to this request the ITAA made a grant of $45,705 to enable the ISA
to continue its activities in all four countries, with the understanding
that Smithsonian anthropologists would be available for program
analyses of technical aid projects.

Individual activities of staff members are described in the separate
country sections. The largest single enterprise consisted of participa-
tion in a general survey of ILAA public-health programs in Latin
America. During the spring of 1952 the ITAA decided to utilize
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

anthropologists on a permanent basis and requested that plans be
made to incorporate ISA personnel directly into that organization.
This, of course, signaled the termination of ISA activities as such.
Accordingly, the Department of State was requested to notify the
Ministers of Foreign Relations of the cooperating countries that the
United States would make use of the escape clauses in its memorandum
agreements, bringing to a close as of June 30 the agreements that have
governed ISA operations during past years. Late in June 1952, the
IIAA asked to extend its grant to the Smithsonian Institution for
an additional 3 months, to give time for an orderly transfer of person-
nel. An additional $15,725 was included in the amended grant, which
was to terminate September 30, 1952.

Operations during the period July 1, 1951, to June 30, 1952, were
as follows:

Washington.—Dr. George M. Foster continued as Director of the In-
stitute. In September he concluded arrangements with the United
States Public Health Service and the ITAA whereby certain Institute
of Social Anthropology staff members, as indicated below, would be
detailed for varying periods to participate in health-program analyses.
He spent most of October in El Salvador as a member of the team that
was initiating this work, and gathered data from a country little
known anthropologically. During January and February 1952, he
visited field personnel in Brazil, Peri, Colombia, and México and
participated in the health survey in Chile. In May he went to Geneva,
Switzerland, as an adviser on cultural problems to the American
Delegation to the Fifth Assembly of the World Health Organization.
In June he undertook the editorship of the full USPHS-IIAA report
on the Latin-American health survey.

Early in October the Smithsonian Institution brought Dr. Julio
Caro Baroja, director of the Museo del Pueblo Espafiol in Madrid,
to Washington for a 3 months’ stay. During this period he and Dr.
Foster were engaged in the preliminary steps of writing a major mono-
graph on Spanish ethnography, designed to make available Hispanic
background data to make more intelligible the modern cultures of
Hispanic America. Dr. Caro’s passage was taken care of by the
Smithsonian Institution; his stay in the United States was made
possible by a grant from the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthro-
pological Research.

Miss Lois Northcott, administrative assistant to the Director since
1947, resigned to take a position with the Technical Cooperation Ad-
ministration in Egypt, and her place was taken by Mrs. Virginia
Clark, formerly with the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Brazil—Both Dr. Donald Pierson and Dr. Kalervo Oberg contin-
ued their teaching activities at the Escola de Sociologia e Politica in
Sio Paulo. Dr. Pierson, as in former years, served as dean of grad-

SECRETARY'S REPORT 81

uate work, as co-editor of the quarterly Sociologia, and as editor of
the book series Biblioteca de Ciencias Sociais. In addition, he was
occupied in developing long-range plans for an elaborate cultural
research program in the Sao Francisco Valley. The sum of 500,000
cruzeiros was made available to the Escola by the Brazilian Govern-
ment to carry out this work, and Dr. Pierson was asked to plan and
direct the research. In the spring of 1952 he made several short trips
to this area to organize field teams and initiate work. ‘The services of
Dr. Oberg were requested by the ILAA for analyses of some of their
health and health-education programs in Chonin, Minas Gerais, dur-
ing the months of July and August 1951. After concluding formal
teaching obligations in December he again returned to Chonin, re-
maining until April 1952. His assignment in Sao Paulo being con-
cluded, Dr. Oberg was brought to Washington in June, preparatory
to reassignment to Rio de Janeiro by the ITAA. Dr. Pierson elected
not to transfer to the ITAA, and on June 30, 1952, his connection
with the ISA was severed.

Colombia.—Charles Erasmus continued his collaboration with the
Colombian Government’s Instituto Etnolégico in Bogoté. In August
he initiated a community analysis of the mestizo village of Tota in
the Province of Boyacé. In this work he was aided by Dr. Silva
Celis, director of the anthropological museum in Sogamosa, and Sr.
Silvio Yepes, member of the staff of the Instituto Etnologico. In
November he was detailed to the United States Public Health Service
and sent to Ecuador where he remained until January 1952. In this
capacity he participated with the health survey group which at that
time was working in Ecuador. He was detailed to the ITAA in May
1952, and sent to Haiti for 6 weeks to participate, with a team of
experts, in surveying the Artibonite Valley for planning of agricul-
tural programs.

M éxico—Dr. Isabel Kelly taught two courses during the fall semes-
ter at the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia, in Mexico City. During
October she made a brief visit to El Salvador to consult with the
director of the Institute regarding analyses of ITAA projects (see
Washington), and to make comparative observations in that country.
In November she initiated additional research on health problems in
the Federal District, in which work she was assisted by students from
the Escuela Nacional. This research continued until March 1952.
In May and June of that year Dr. Kelly carried out research in ap-
plied anthropology in the village of Cadereyta, Querétaro, where the
ITAA desired information on the sociological effects of a new water-
supply system.

Dr. William Wonderly continued teaching activities through Au-
gust, at which time he asked to be placed on leave status for the re-
mainder of the year. In December the decision was made not to
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

continue linguistic training asa part of the Institute of Social Anthro-
pology program, and he left the staff to accept a position at the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma.

Both Drs. Kelly and Wonderly represented the Smithsonian Insti-
tution at the Mexican Government’s “Round Table” anthropological
conference in Jalapa, Veracruz, in August.

Pert.—Ozzie Simmons continued his teaching activities at the In-
stituto de Estudios Etnolégicos in Lima, and continued to direct
research in the mestizo village of Lunahuana in the Canete Valley
south of Lima. In December Mr. Simmons was detailed to the United
States Public Health Service and sent to Chile to participate in the
evaluation of ITAA health projects in that country. This work con-
tinued until late January 1952. Mr. Simmons was brought to Wash-
ington in April 1952, following which he took leave to defend his
dissertation at Harvard University, where he was awarded his doc-
torate. He returned to Lima in May to conclude his study in the
Lunahuan4 Valley.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued during the year one Annual Report, four Bulle-
tins, and one Publication of the Institute of Social Anthropology, as
listed below:

Sixty-eighth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1950-1951.
ii+40 pp. 1952.

Bulletin 146. Chippewa child life and its cultural background, by Sister M. Inea
Hilger. xiv-+204 pp., 31 pls., 1 fig. 1951.

Bulletin 147. Journal of an expedition to the Mauvaises Terres and the Upper
Missouri in 1850, by Thaddeus A. Culbertson. Edited by John Francis
McDermott. viii+164 pp., 2 maps. 1952.

Bulletin 148. Arapaho child life and its cultural background, by Sister M. Inez
Hilger. xv+253 pp., 40 pls., 1 fig. 1952.

Bulletin 149. Symposium on local diversity in Iroquois culture. Edited by
William N. Fenton. v-+187 pp., 21 figs. 1951.

No. 1. Introduction: The concept of locality and the program of Iroquois
research, by William N. Fenton.

No.2. Concepts of land ownership among the Iroquois and their neighbors,
by George S. Snyderman.

No. 3. Locality as a basic factor in the development of Iroquois social
structure, by William N. Fenton.

No. 4. Some psychological determinants of culture change in an Iroquoian
community, by Authony F. C. Wallace.

No. 5. The religion of Handsome Lake; Its origin and development, by
Merle H. Deardorff.

No. 6. Local diversity in Iroquois music and dance, by Gertrude P. Kurath.

No. 7. The Feast of the Dead, or Ghost Dance at Six Nations Reserve,
Canada, by William N. Fenton and Gertrude P. Kurath.

No. 8. Iroquois women, then and now, by Martha Champion Randle.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 14. The Indian caste of Peru,
1795-1940. A population study based upon tax records and census reports,
by George Kubler. vi-+71 pp., 2 pls., 1 fig., 20 maps. 1952.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 83

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 145. The Indian tribes of North America, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 150. The modal personality of the Tuscarora Indians, as revealed by
the Rorschach test, by Anthony F. C. Wallace.

Bulletin 151. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 33-42.

No. 33. “Of the Crow Nation,” by Edwin Thompson Denig. With bio-
graphical sketch and footnotes by John C. Ewers.

No. 34. The water lily in Maya art: A complex of alleged Asiatic origin,
by Robert L. Rands.

No. 35. The Medicine Bundles of the Florida Seminole and the Green Corn
Dance, by Louis Capron.

No. 36. Technique in the music of the American Indian, by Frances
Densmore.

No. 37. The belief of the Indians in a connection between song and the
supernatural, by Frances Densmore.

No. 38. Aboriginal fish poisons, by Robert F. Heizer.

No. 39. Aboriginal navigation off the coast of Upper and Baja California,
by Robert F. Heizer and William C. Massey.

No. 40. Exploration of the Adena Mound at Natrium, W. Va., by Ralph
S. Solecki.

No. 41. The Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by D. B. Shimkin.

No. 42. Current trends in the Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by Fred
Voget.

Bulletin 152. Index to Schoolcraft’s “Indian Tribes of the United States,” com-
piled by Frances S. Nichols.

Bulletin 153. La Venta, Tabasco: A study of Olmec ceramics and art, by Philip
Drucker.

Bulletin 154. River Basin Surveys Papers: Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program. Nos. 1-6.

No. 1. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Sum-
mary report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1948,
by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Sum-
mary report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1949,
by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 3. The Woodruff Ossuary, a prehistoric burial site in Phillips County,
Kans., by Marvin F. Kivett.

No. 4. The Addicks Dam site:

I. An archeological survey of the Addicks Dam basin, Southeast Texas
by Joe Ben Wheat.
II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs sites, Addicks
Reservoir, Texas, by Marshall T. Newman.

No. 5. The Hodges site:

I. Two rock shelters near Tucumcari, N. Mex., by Herbert W. Dick.
II. Geology of the Hodges site, Quay County, N. Mex., by Sheldon Judson.

No. 6. The Rembert mounds, Elbert County, Ga., by Joseph R. Caldwell.
Appendix. List of River Basin Surveys reports published in other series.
Bulletin 155. Settlement patterns in the Virté Valley, Pert, by Gordon R. Willey.
Bulletin 156. The Iroquois Eagle Dance, an offshoot of the Calumet Dance, by
William N. Fenton, with an analysis of the Iroquois Eagle Dance and songs,

by Gertrude Prokosch Kurath.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

{Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 13. The Tajin Totonac: Part 1.
History, subsistence, shelter, and technology, by Isabel Kelly and Angel
Palerm.

Institute of Socia] Anthropology Publication No. 15. Indian tribes of Northern
Mato Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg. With appendix by Marshall New-
man, entitled “Anthropometry of the Umotina, Nambicuara, and Iranxe,
with comparative data from other northern Mato Grosso tribes.”

Institute of Social Anthropology Publication No. 16. Penny capitalism: A Guate-
malan Indian economy, by Sol Tax.

Publications distributed totaled 21,505, as compared with 22,377

for the fiscal year 1951.

ARCHIVES

Miss Mae W. Tucker, archivist for the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, retired at the end of February 1952 after nearly 27 years’
service with the Institution.

Notable additions to the collections during the fiscal year were the
diaries of John K. Hillers, who accompanied Maj. J. W. Powell on
his famous voyage through the Grand Canyon of the Colorado in
1871 and 1872. Mr. Hillers, who became photographer for the ex-
pedition, kept a full daily record of the expedition, which constitutes
a most valuable addition to our knowledge of this famous adventure.
The diaries were presented to the Bureau by Mrs. J. K. Hillers of
Washington, D. C., daughter-in-law of the author.

Mrs. Alice Norvell Hunt, of Washington, D. C., presented to the
Bureau an interesting collection of early photographs of western In-
dians collected by her father while an army officer in the West and
Southwest. Comprising photographs made by Baker and Johnston;
Addison of Fort Sill, Oklahoma Territory; O. S. Goff, Dickinson,
N. Dak.; A. S. Goff, Fort Custer, Mont.; Chr. Barthelmess, Fort
Keogh, Mont.; and Chase Thorne, El Paso, the 46 prints, including
a number of famous Indians, are all new to the collections.

William H. Myer, of Washington, D. C., and Mrs. Annie Lee
Myer Turner, of Carthage, Tenn., presented a book containing 75
drawings by Indians of the Southern Plains. The book was acquired
about the year 1880 by Capt. David N. McDonald and was later
purchased by W. E. Myer, father of the donors.

Mrs. J. C. Cardell, of Lenoir, N. C., presented a Mohawk dictionary
of 973 pages with French equivalents. It is in the dialect spoken at
Lake of Two Mountains, Caughnawaga and St. Regis in the Province
of Quebec, Canada, and is the work of Rev. J. A. Cuoc. It was
obtained later by Jeremiah Curtain, father of the donor.

Henry Lookout, of Pawhuska, Okla., son of the late Fred Lookout,
last principal chief of the Osage Nation, sent to the Bureau on
indefinite loan a group of papers relating to the history of the Osage
Nation, passed down from father to son for generations. Among the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 85

documents is a treaty of peace between the United States, the Osage
Nations, and the Missouri and Arkansas Tribes, signed in 1815 at
Portage des Sioux in what is now St. Charles County, Mo. In addi-
tion to the many Indian seals and signatures, it carries the signatures
of William Clark, of Lewis and Clark expedition fame, Ninian
Edwards, governor of the Territory of Illinois, and Auguste Chouteau,
principal figure of the early fur trade in the West. Also included in
the material from Mr. Lookout is a Jefferson medal of 1801, made
for presentation to Indian leaders. These are extremely rare since
they were usually buried with their recipient.

COLLECTIONS
Ace. No.
191398. Mold and finished face mask of Frances Densmore, made by Miéka in 1912.

192829. Cornhusk ceremonial mask, Grand River Iroquois, Ontario, Canada,
probably collected by J. N. B. Hewitt.
(Through Dr. M. W. Stirling) Ceremonial and historical wampum of
the Iroquois, collected in 1928-29 by J. N. B. Hewitt at the Six Nations
Reserve, Ontario, Canada.
192830. Shell necklace used in the Tutelo adoption ceremony, collected in 1941
by W. N. Fenton.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

193461. Skeletal and archeological material from sites Me44 and Ha6, Buggs
Island Reservoir, Roanoke River, near Clarksville, Va.

191031. (Through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) Vertebrate material collected by
Dr. Theodore E. White, May 1951, Garza-Little Elm Dam, north fork
of Trinity River, Denton County, Tex.

191587. Fossil vertebrate material from Oligocene and Miocene deposits in the
Canyon Ferry Reservoir area, Montana, collected by Dr. Theodore EH.
White, July 1951.

192062. 5 fossil vertebrates including mammals, reptiles, and fishes, from
Garrison Reservoir area near Williston, N. Dak., collected by Dr.
Theodore H. White, August 1951.

192063. 1 mosasaur skeleton and shark teeth from Pierre formation, Upper
Cretaceous, in Oahe Reservoir area near Pierre, 8. Dak., collected by
Dr. Theodore I. White, August 1951.

193460. 'Tympanic bullae of kangaroo rat from near Pierre, 8. Dak.

193835. (Through R. L. Stephenson) Approximately 120 land mollusks from
Texas.

Respectfully submitted.
M. W. Sriruine, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6

Report on the International Exchange Service

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1952:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, serves
as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and compre-
hensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was later desig-
nated by the United States Government as the agency for the
transmission of official documents to selected depositories throughout
the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to con-
ventions, treaties, and other international agreements.

Although the number of packages received for transmission during
the year decreased by 9,386 to the yearly total of 1,001,614, the total
weight of the packages increased by 36,854 pounds to the total of
825,627 pounds. The average weight of the individual package
increased to 13.18 ounces as compared to the 12.46-ounce average for
the fiscal year of 1951. The publications received from both the
foreign and domestic sources for shipment are classified as shown in
the following table:

Classification Packages Weight
5
Number Number Pounds Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad -_-_ OAS [Sea ee eee 267330! | ssoe2 eee ne
Publications received in return for parliamentary docu-

BA GX) 1a a ee «A SS SN Mee EH EO ST ae 10; 987 sae ts 19, 678
United States departmental documents sent abroad___- UOC) ene ee 182/086}. 222 eee
Publications received in return for departmental docu-

THONGS, oo ete an ane nan cen eno Ae och ee acaeeacocnletan eweenes HAE 1 (ame in By 20, 591
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent

RDRORGM Mite oe Soe rer ee pela et 1713:220))).-22_ ene 245; 773) 22824. ---

Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re-
ceived from abroad for distribution in the United

Sisteg es. S852 spear eR ee ee ee ee oe PDS Lp | ER poplin tes 90, 150
otal 224 se a ee ee 936, 114 65, 500 695, 208 130, 419
Grand total®. Bret sae eee Sees 1, 001, 614 825, 627

86

SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bu-
reaus of foreign countries by freight, or where shipment by such
means is impractical, to the addressees by direct mail. The number
of boxes shipped to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,058, or 174
more than for the previous year. Of these boxes 867 were for de-
positories of full sets of United States Government documents, these
publications being furnished in exchange for the official publications
of foreign governments which are received for deposit in the Library
of Congress. The number of packages forwarded by mail and by
means other than freight was 205,666.

Transportation rates continue to increase and are primarily re-
sponsible for the 148,014 pounds of publications that remained un-
shipped at the end of the fiscal year.

No shipments are being made to either China or Rumania. Pub-
lications intended for addresses in Formosa and formerly sent through
the Chinese Exchange Bureau at Nanking are now forwarded by
direct mail.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 104 (62 full and 42 partial sets), listed
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the
footnotes.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisién Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Bxteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA : Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH Watss: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Soutu AuvstTraLia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. #
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Vicrorra:; Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.

BELGIuM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

Braziz: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Butearia: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.

BurMa: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Mantrospa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QueseEc: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.

CrYLON: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.

Cur: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

236639—53——_7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

CumNaA: Ministry of Bducation, National Library, Nanking, China.’
Purina: National Library of Peiping.’
Conrompra: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
CosTa RioA: Biblioteca Nacional, San José,
Ouna: Ministerio de Wstado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
OZUCHOBLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Denmark: Institut Danois des Mchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen,
Wayrr: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo,
PrntANp: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
Francn: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris,
Germany: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Biblothek, Berlin.
Parliamentary Library, Bonn,
Grear Brrrarn :
Wnaranp: British Museum, London,
Lonpon: London School of Heonomics and Political Seience. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Hunaary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.
Inpvrta: National Library, Caleutta,
Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.
InponusrA: Ministry for Moreign Affairs, Djakarta.
Innnanp: National Library of Lreland, Dublin.
IsrauL: Government Archives and Library, Hakirya,
I~ALY: Ministerio della Publica Istruzione, Rome,
JAPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo?
México: Secretaria de Relaciones Nxteriores, Departamento de Informacién para
el Wxtranjero, México, D. TF.
NeryertANnns: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZwaALann: General Assembly Library, Wellington,
Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.
PAKISTAN: Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.’
Perd: Seeci6n de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
terlores, Lima.
Puitrrines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Hducation, Manila.
PoLAND: Bibliothéque Nacionale, Warsaw.
LorrugaL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
SPAIN: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.
Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm,
SwirzerLannd: Bibliotheque Centrale Médérale, Berne.
Turkey: Department of Printing and Wngraving, Ministry of HNducation,
Istanbul.
Union or Sours Arnica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Union or Sovinr SOcrArisy Reeusiros: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115,
Unitrep Narions: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas,
YuGoOsLAVIA: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.’

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AVGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
ANGLO-WGYPTIAN SUDAN: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum,

1 Shipment suspended,
*Recelves two seta,
* Added during year,

a
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

BoutvriA: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones lxteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gerais: Directoria Geral de Wstatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte.
British GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

AxbprertaA: Provincial Library, Wdmonton,

Britisa CotuMsBrA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, lredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scotra; Provincial Secretary of Nova Seotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.
DOMINICAN ReEpubiic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad

Trujillo.

Wcvapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
EL SALVADOR:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones Wxteriores, San Salvador.
Grecck: National Library, Athens,
GuATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Harrr: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

Ministerio de Relaciones Dxteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcetanD; National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

Brwar AND Orissa: Revenue Departinent, Patna.

Bompay : Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Department

Bombay.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupDIt:
University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.‘
West BenaaL: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Caleutta.

InAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
TrAQ: Publie Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
LepAnon: American University of Beirut, Beirut.’
LipertaA: Department of State, Monrovia.
MaaAya: Iederal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
MALTA: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
Nicaragua : Ministerio de Relaciones Wxteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN : Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Mxteriores, Panamfi.
PARAGUAY; Ministerio de Relaciones Mxteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncidén.
ScoTLAND: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.
Sram: National Library, Bangkok.
Srn@Apore: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

4 Changed from Civil Secretariat, Council House, Lucknow.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 87 copies of the Federal Register
and 94 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 2 copies of the Federal Register and 2 of the Con-
gressional Record. The countries to which these journals are being
forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER i

ARGENTINA:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.*
Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-
cién Publica, Buenos Aires.
Cimara de Diputados Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA:
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WaAtgEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.® ®
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro.
Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandos.
Banta: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sio Salvador.
Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rro GRANDE po Sut: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre.
SercrPE: Biblioteca Piblica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaja.
SAo Pavto: Imprensa Oficial do Estada, SHo Paulo.
BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CryLon: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.’
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.*
House of Representatives, Habana.
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Library of the Czechoslovak National Assembly, Prague.’
Eayrt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.°
Ex SAtvapor: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador.
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.‘
Publiques de l'Institut de Droit Comparé, Université de Paris, Paris.*
Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.®
Service de la Documentation Etrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris.®

ee ae

®* Federal Register only.
® Congressional Record only.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

GERMANY:
Amerika-Institut der Universitit, Miinchen, Mtinchen.* °
Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.
Bibliotek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel, Kiel-Wik.
Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.° *
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.®
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.’
GREAT BRITAIN:
Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.®®
House of Commons Library, London.®
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Royal Institut of International Affairs, London.®
GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
HaliT1: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpvras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.®
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.®
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Department, Simla.
Parliament Library, New Delhi.®
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
ITALY:
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.®
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.®
JaPAN: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Korea: Secretary General, National Assembly, Pusan.*
MExico:
Direcci6n General Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernacién, México, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Frankin, México, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES; Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Basa CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
Cur1apas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gcbernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHumLa: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Cotima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DurAneo: Gubernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALIsco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAN: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
Moretos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.

7 Three copies.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

M£xico—Continued
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepie.
Nuevo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
OAXACA: Periddico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PuresiA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
Querféraro: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Porosf: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potost.
SrnaLoA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tapasco: Secretaria de Gobierno, Sessién 8a, Ramo de Prensa, Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAxcALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Veracruz: Goabernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.°
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PAKISTAN: Punjab Legislative Assembly Department, Lahore.
Pert: Cimara de Diputados, Lima.
PoLaNnpD: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.*
PorTUGAL: Secretaria de Assembla National, Lisbon.®
PorTUGUESE TImMoR: Reparticio Central de Administracao Civil, Dil
SwiITZERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneya.°
International Labor Office, Geneva.° *
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
UNION oF SouTH AFRICA:
Cape or Goop Hope: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
UNION or Sovirer Socratist RepusLics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka, Ob-
shehestvennykh Nauk, Moscow.°
UruGuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly to the addresses by mail.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

BeLaium: Service des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Belgique,
Bruxelles.

CuinA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.’

CzEcHOSLOvAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, National and University
Library, Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen K.

8 Two copies.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 93

Eaeyper: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Snellmaninkatu 9-11, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richelieu, Paris.

GERMANY: Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad Godesberg.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London,
W.1.°

HunGary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationary, Bombay.

INDONESIA; Department of Cultural Affairs and Education, Djakarta.

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

IraLty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruzione,
Rome.

Japan: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGaAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.’

SourH AUusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationary Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzertanp: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Palais Fédéral, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving,
Istanbul.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationary Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

UNIoN oF Soviet Socrarist Repustics: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow 19.

Vicrorta:; Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YueostaviA; Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
D. G. WiuraMs, Chief.
Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

® Between the United States and England only.
APPENDIX 7

Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: Transmitted herewith is a report on the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952.

There were 590 accessions, comprising 1,575 individual animals,
added to the collection during the year by gifts, deposits, purchases,
exchanges, births, and hatchings. Among these were many rare
specimens never before shown in this Zoo. The addition of new kinds
of animals enhances the value of the collection, which is maintained
not only for exhibition, but for research and education, thus fostering
the Smithsonian’s established purpose of “the increase and diffusion
of knowledge.” Valuable opportunities for research are afforded
students of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as artists,
photographers, and writers. Only methods of study that do not
endanger the welfare of animals or the safety of the public are
permitted.

Services of the staff included answering in person or by phone, mail,
or telegraph questions regarding animals and their care and trans-
portation; furnishing to other zoos and other agencies, public and
private, information regarding structures for housing animals; co-
operating with other agencies of Federal, State, and municipal gov-
ernments in research work; and preparing articles for publication.

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the Park
in 1940, is leased at $23,052 a year. This money is deposited in the
general fund of the United States Treasury. The concessionaire
serves meals and light refreshments and sells souvenirs.

THE EXHIBITS

Animals for exhibition are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase, ex-
changes, births, and hatchings, and are removed by death, exchange,
or return of those on deposit. Although depositors are at liberty to
remove their specimens, many leave them permanently.

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turn-over, and
so the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory list
of specimens in the collection on June 30 of each year does not show
all the kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year; some-
times creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown
are no longer in the collection at the time the list is prepared.

94

SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

The United States National Museum is given first choice of all speci-
mens that die in the Zoo. If they are not desired for the Museum they
are then made available to other scientific institutions or scientific
workers. Thus the value of the specimen continues long after it is
dead.

Professional workers of the National Institutes of Health frequently
perform autopsies on animals for the information thus obtained that
might be of use in the study of human diseases. They frequently
diagnose causes of death and make suggestions for treatment of liv-
ing animals. In particular, acknowledgment is made for the excellent
assistance and advice given the Zoo from time to time by Dr. W. H.
HKyestone, of the National Cancer Institute, and by Miss Frances
Dobell, biclogist in his laboratory.

Zoos are constantly striving to take such good care of their animals
that they may live out their maximum life spans. Therefore when
fair success is attained and animals live in captivity longer than they
usually do or when they appear to have established outstanding
longevity records, it is gratifying. In the National Zoological Park
there are many animals that continue to thrive after relatively long
periods in captivity. A few of these are listed below. Though none
of them has established a maximum longevity record, all are note-
worthy.

Mammals.—A ringtail, or cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus), received
as an adult in August 1941, is still living and in good condition.

A digger pine pocket gopher (Z’homomys bottae mewa), received on
May 19, 1949, lived until June 27, 1952. Pocket gophers do not ordi-
narily survive so long in captivity.

Birds.—The bird that has been in the zoo collection the longest is
a Siberian crane (rus leucogeranus), which was received in 1906. It
is still thriving and appears to be in good condition.

A white-naped crane (Grus leucauchen) received in 1916 appears to
be in good health.

A wood ibis (Mycteria americana) and a lesser adjutant stork
(Leptoptilus javaniecus) were both received in 1928 and are still doing
well.

East African crowned cranes (Balearica regulorum gibbericeps)
received in 1926 and West African cranes (Balearica pavonina) re-
ceived in 1931 are thriving.

A single-wattled cassowary (Casuarius unappendiculatus), re-
ceived in 1928, and other cassowaries received in 1937 are still alive.

Small birds that are still thriving are white-cheeked bulbuls
(Pycnonotus leucogenys) and mourning finches (Phrygilus fruticetz)
received in 1940.

_ Reptiles—The oldest animal in the collection is a Galapagos turtle
(Testudo vicina), which was collected by the Lord Rothschild Expedi-
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

tion to the Galapagos Islands in 1898, the first scientific exploration
of these islands. Since its receipt it has continued to thrive and grow.

An African water turtle (Pelomedusa galeata), obtained in 1926
by the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition, is still alive.

Other reptiles with interesting records are: A soft-shelled turtle
(Amyda ferox) received in 1930; flat-headed turtles (Platemys platy-
cephala) received in 1931; two African crocodiles (Crocodylus niloti-
cus) received in 1929; four spectacled caimans (Caiman sclerops) re-
ceived in 1931; and a pike-head snake (Oxybelis acwminatus) received
in 1943.

Among the amphibians are Argentine horned frogs (Ceratophrys
ornata) received in 1939 and giant toads (Bufo marinus) received
in 1981.

Two South American lungfishes (Lepidosiren paradoxa), received
in 1931, are still living.

The most serious loss of the year from both a financial and senti-
mental standpoint was the death on June 30, 1952, of the African
elephant “Jumbina,” which had been with the Zoo since August 8,
1913. She was never the docile soul that endears some elephants to
children, but she was admired by many for her active, alert ways as
well as for her stature and remarkable form. When she was obtained
from the Government Zoological Garden at Giza, Egypt, she was 4
feet 3 inches high at the shoulders and weighted 875 pounds. An
arthritic-like condition apparently caused her decline.

ACCESSIONS

By extensive correspondence with persons in foreign lands the Zoo is
frequently able to acquire by gift, exchange, or purchase highly de-
sirable animals that are not ordinarily available through animal deal-
ers or other zoos.

OUTSTANDING ACQUISITIONS

The Commonwealth of Australia presented to the President of the
United States an albino kangaroo and a pair of the beautiful Crown
Prince Rudolph’s blue birds-of-paradise. ‘These are quartered in the
Zoo and are most interesting additions to the exhibits, as the kangaroo
is believed to be the only one of its kind in captivity, and the birds
are the first of this species that this Zoo has ever had.

In exchange with E. J. L. Hallstrom, president of the Taronga
Zoological Park Trust, Sydney, N. S. W., an outstanding collection
was received from Australia, consisting of gang-gang cockatoos (Cal-
locephalon fimbriatum), Barraband’s parakeets (Polytelis swainsont),
Leadbeater’s cockatoos (Kakatoe leadbeatert), bare-eyed cockatoos
(Kakatoe sanguineus), sulphur-crested cockatoos (akatoe galerita),
emus (Dromiceius novachollandiae), bowerbirds (Ptilonorhynchus

SECRETARY'S REPORT 97

violaceus), Cape Barren geese (Cereopsis novaehollandiae), black
swans (Chenopis atrata), 4 long-eared opossums (7'richosurus vul-
pecula), 6 phalangers (Petaurus norfolcensis), 2 wallabies (Wallabia
agilis) ,2 wallaroos (Macropus robustus), 2 red kangaroos (Macropus
rufus), 2 great gray kangaroos (Macropus giganteus), 7 White’s
skinks (Hgernia whitti), 4 carpet pythons (Python variegatus), 5
black snakes (Pseudechis porphyriacus), 2 green snakes (Dendrophis
punctulatus), and 4 tiger snakes (Spilotes pullatus pullatus). Other
specimens are stil] to be received inthisexchange. In return, a young
giraffe, 2 pygmy hippopotamuses, and 1 grizzly bear were sent to
Australia.

The United States Fish and Wildlife Service, through various mem-
bers of its staff, has continued to assist us in maintaining an interesting
collection during the year. A pair of MacQueen’s bustards (Chlamy-
dotis undulata macqueenii) was presented through Gardner Bump «and
the State of New Mexico. The first Ross’s snow geese (Chen rossi)
received since 1915 were sent by Vernon Ekedahl, superintendent of
the Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge, from Willows, Calif. He
also sent other North American waterfowl, which are enumerated in
the list of donors. Other members of the Fish and Wildlife Service
who assisted are given in the list of donors.

W. W. Dornin, of Phoenix, Ariz., continued from time to time
to send choice specimens of reptiles of the southwestern United States.

Valuable specimens were received during the year from J. D. Hand-
man, Nyasaland Railways Ltd., Monkey Bay, Nyasaland, Africa. As
this is a region little known zoologically, all the specimens are unusual
in collections. Outstanding among these was a file snake (Smoce-
phalus capensis).

The United States Army Medical Unit in Malaya, under the leader-
ship of Lt. Col. Robert Traub, again brought to the United States
particularly interesting animals that were made available to the Na-
tional Zoological Park after they had served their purpose with the
Medical Unit. Although the collection was not large, all the specimens
were very desirable. They included 2 baby orangutans (Pongo
pygmaeus abelii) ; 2 young small-toothed civets (Arctogalidia trivir-
gata); 4 ferret-badgers (Helictis everetti) ; 2 tree shrews (T'upaz
montana baluensis) ; 4 choice specimens of the big black rat of Mount
Kinabalu, North Borneo (Rattus infraluteus) ; 1 Bornean porcupine
(Trichys lipura) ; and 1 remarkable tiny spineless hedgehog (Hylo-
mys suillus dorsalis). On the long trip from Asia the animals were
cared for by Charles Wharton, a zoologist who had been with the
Medical Unit.

The Johns Hopkins Research Center deposited in the Zoo a group
of young chimpanzees that have proved to be a fascinating exhibit.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The National Institutes of Health, through Samuel Poiley, pre-
sented 13 minks and a number of ferrets.

Fourteen species of animals were received that had not previously
been exhibited in the National Zoological Park, and some of them
probably had not previously been on exhibition in the United States.
Among these were:

Scientific name Common name
Arctogalidia triviryata stigmatica___-. Small-toothed civet.
Helios everett =~ == = Se Se . Ferret-badger.
Tupai montana baluensis________-_~-_-. Kinabalu tree shrew.
Rattus infratuteus—— = Kinabalu giant rat.
Hylomys suillus dorsalig________-- _... Spineless hedgehog.
Trich ys) pura sas See ee Se ae eset Bornean porcupine.
iPresbytia whaynet.s<3 2 -t oo eee A Phayre’s langur.
Macropus.giganteus.- =. Albino great gray kangaroo.
Anas UcOniCd25e5 2 sie 6 ne ee Philippine mallard.
Crao QlOer ae eee ee ee eee Blue-cered curassow.
Cephalopterus ornatus________-____---- Umbrellabird.
Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii__-__-. MacQueen’s bustard.
Denisonia superbas2ih us ee, Australian copperhead.
Simocephalus capensis__________--___ . File snake.

Other acquisitions of outstanding interest, although not the first of
their kind to be exhibited by the Zoo, were:

Pongo pygmaeus abeliti____-_---------- Orangutan.
Panitrogiodytesh 2223 es eee Chimpanzee.

Hajlovates lar: f2s23 Ses eee White-handed gibbon.
Sneothos venaticus.-- 5 -==-— Bush dog.

Dteeros. bicornie 23-222 -- See Black rhinoceros.
Rupicola sanguinolenta__-__-----------~ Scarlet cock-of-the-rock.
Rupicola rupicolai i222 22522 eee Orange cock-of-the-rock.
Polytelis swainsont__.—-==—--------=—— Barraband’s parakeet.
Callocephalon fimbriatwm__-_--------- Gang-gang cockatoo.
Psitiacus erithacus___--- == = African gray parrot.
Kakatoe teadbecteri___ —-—- =2-—___- == Leadbeater’s cockatoo.
Ohen toseteea2 eee eee Ross’s goose.

Bucorvus abyssinicus_______-_-------- Abyssinian ground hornbill.
Pharomachus mocino____------------~ Quetzal.

Kakatoe haematuropygia____-_-------- Red-vented cockatoo.
Kakatoe sanguineus.___...._.-------- Bare-eyed cockatoo.
Dromiceus novaehollandiae____------~- Emu.

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus___-—~---~---. Bowerbird.
Paradisornis rudophi___---_-___------ _ Prince Rudolph’s bird-of-paradise.
Kininys eros@on secs ee aes Hinged-back turtle.
Bombtya mornin. = J aact onan ea ees Silkworm.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

(Deposits are marked *)

Adelle’s Pet Shop, Washington, D. C., skunk.
Airline Pilots’ Association, Washington, D. C., boa constrictor.
Amos, John T., Mount Rainier, Md., red fox.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 99

Animal Rescue League, Washington, D. C., squirrel monkey.

Armbruster, David, Washington, D. C., 9 opossums,

Australia, Commonwealth of, through E. J. L. Hallstrom, Sydney, N. 8. W., albino
kangaroo, 2 Crown Prince Rudolph’s birds-of-paradise.

Ayer, Bruce, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Ayers, Mrs. John K., Mount Rainier, Md., red-vented cockatoo.

Bacckel, Mrs. R. M., Washington, D. C., goldfish.

Backauer, Ben, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Baker, Bobby, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Baldwin, J. W., Alexandria, Va., gray fox.

Banister, Mrs. A. B., Chevy Chase, Md., salamander,

Barker, B., and Norris, R., Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Barnes, Roger L., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Bartlett, Mrs. Hallie B., Washington, D. C., robin.

Bartley, Master Sgt. Frank E., Washington, D. C., skunk.

Barton, A. J., Pittsburgh, Pa., 6 timber rattlesnakes.

Bell, Curtis, Bethesda, Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Bergen, W. P., Washington, D, C., Pekin duck.

Bernard, Mrs. H. J., Washington, D. C., canary.

Biessel, Barbara and Betty, Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Birding, Mrs. Anne, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Blades, Lt. Charles P., Anacostia, D. C., red fox.

Blake, Lois, Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Boges, E. H., Greenbelt, Md., 14 white rats.

Bole, Joe, 3d, Washington, D. C., 37 box turtles.

Bolton, E. S., Arlington, Va., horned lizard.

Bonsall, Mrs. E. S., College Park, Md., 2 Toulouse geese, Pekin duck.

Boy Scouts, Troop 443, Silver Spring, Md., pilot black snake,

Bradford, Mrs. D., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Branitsch, Jay, Arlington, Va., 4 box turtles.

Breed, R. E., Washington, D. C., skunk.

Bretemps, F., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Brinckerhoff, Wm. W., Washington, D. C., yellow-headed parrot.*

Brown, J. F., Hyattsville, Md., red-tailed hawk.

Brown, Russell L., Greenbelt, Md., crow.

Bruder, W. A., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Bruer, John L., Alexandria, Va., keeled green snake.

Buck, Warren, Camden, N. J., pygmy hippopotamus,* 2 cotton-headed marmosets.*

Burke, Donald, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Carson, James, Arlington, Va., 2 opossums.

Carter, Mrs. Hill, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Castle, Guy, Oxon Hill, Md., 5 Muscovy ducks.

Chambers, Bob, Rockville, Md., skunk.

Clutter, C. J., Washington, D. C., muskrat.

Coffield, Mrs. E., Washington, D. C., canary.

Collins, Elizabeth, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Conlin, Thomas Byrd, Arlington, Va., 9 box turtles.

Cook, Elliott R., Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Cool, Mrs. Leon, Washington, D. C., cedar waxwing.

Cox, Ray E., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Crn, Mrs. Re, Alexandria, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Curran, Sandra M., Washington, D. C., 2 newts.

‘Cutchfield, John, Washington, D. C., 3 hamsters.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Dade, Bob, Washington, D. C., long-eared owl.

Dahlgren, Danny, Alexandria, Va., horned lizard.

Davis, F. A., Silver Spring, Md., pilot snake.

Dawson, D. M., Mount Rainier, Md., scarlet tanager.

Dean, Carol A., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Deck, J. C., Riverdale, Md., ring-necked snake.

Derrett, R. E., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

DeWind, Mrs. A. W., Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Dickey, Mrs. Alexander M., Washington, D. C., 2 English sparrows.

District of Columbia Dog Pound, Washington, D. C., raccoon, barred owl.

Dornin, W. W., Phoenix, Ariz., 2 western bull snakes, garter snake, 6 glossy
snakes, Sonoran burrowing snake, 7 diamondback rattlesnakes, prairie rattle-
snake, 6 chuckwallas, 6 sidewinders, 2 desert rattlers, Boyle’s king snake,
leaf-nosed snake, desert snake, striped racer, red racer, lizard.

Douglas, J. E., Rockville, Md., worm snake, ring-necked snake.

Douse, Richard, Washington, D. C., pilot black snake.

Doutrich, Edward A., Silver Spring, Md., American crow.

Downs, Larry E., Arlington, Va., rhesus monkey.*

Dulerio, Mrs. L. F., Fort Foote, Md., robin.

Durham, Mrs. A. W., Bethesda, Md., canary.

Durham, B. G., Chevy Chase, Md., 3 horned lizards.

Dyke, Mrs. Grace, Washington, D. C., 2 grass parakeets.

Edwards, Mrs. Kenneth, Washington, D. C.,3 grass parakeets.

Edwards, Marion, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Egbert, Gordon R., Chevy Chase, Md., 6 Pekin ducks.

Espenshade, G. H., Arlington, Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Fahey, A. J., Takoma Park, Md., opossum.

Feeney, Mrs. J., Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Fine, J. L., Hyattsville, Md., hamster.

Fleischman, Mrs. Morgan, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Floyd, Mrs. R., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Ford, Bertelle E., Rockville, Md., ring-necked snake.

Iothergill, James, and Stockwell, Frank, Newburyport, Mass., snapping turtle.

Tox, Dr. C. Corbin, Harrisonburg, Va., black vulture.

Freeman, D. H., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

French, M. B., Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Gault, Mrs. S. W., Alexandria, Va., Pekin duck.

Gaver, Gordon, Thurmont, Md., 9 rhesus monkeys,* Javan macaque.* 2 pilot
black snakes,* king cobra,* 5 Siamese cobras,* Indian python,* regal python,*
2 common boas,* green tree boa,* rainbow boa,* ball python,* mangrove
snake,* African python,* 2 Gila monsters,* 3 black tegus,* 5 Florida dia-
mondback rattlers,* Texas diamondback rattler,* 2 hog-nosed snakes.*

Geib, Mrs. Pat, Brentwood, Md., rabbit. ~

Gilligan, George W., Washington, D. C., black snake.

Grady, Dallis M., West River, Md., bald eagle.

Grassgreen, Mrs. Anne, Mount Rainier, Md., rabbit.

Graus, Mrs. Matilda, Alexandria, Va., Pekin duck.

Graybill, Catherine, Cabin John, Md., 2 water snakes.

Grow, Mrs. Norman A., College Park, Md., gray fox.

Guim, J. M., Alexandria, Va., black-widow spider.

Guinn, Terry, Arlington, Va., king snake.

Hagenbeck, Lorenz, Hamburg, Germany, 15 yellow-bellied toads.

Hahl, Miss L., Falls Church, Va., grass parakeet.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

Hall, Billy and Bobby, Arlington, Va., alligator.

Hallard, Mrs., Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Hambright, D., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Hanson, Chuck, Crestview, Fla., diamondback rattlesnake, 2 pygmy rattlesnakes.

Harris, Carter E., Jr., Takoma Park, Md., red fox.*

Hartman, John, Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Hawkins, Sandra L., Lewisdale, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Haymes, W. E., Lynchburg, Va., rhesus monkey.*

Heeland, Mrs. W., Washington, D. C., bobwhite quail.

Henderson, Bill, Vienna, Va., snapping turtle.

Hensley, Mrs. Betty, Richmond, Va., lion cub.

Herndon, J. L., family, Washington, D. C., sooty mangabey.

Hingorani, D. K., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Hoke, John, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Holland, Charles W., Arlington, Va., 3 white rats.

Hough, Milton, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Howard, Jeff, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Howe, Chester, Herndon, Va., 2 raccoons.*

Hughes, Gloria B., Alexandria, Va., 3 opossums.

Humphrey, Nancy, Chevy Chase, Md., black-widow spider.

Huntt, Mrs. Henry S., Silver Spring, Md., blue jay.

Hutchins, Miss, Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C., 4 Ariel toucans, 2 smooth-scaled green snakes, 2
corn snakes.

Jenkins, Mrs. Louise N. M., Arlington, Va., raccoon.

Jerome, Mrs. Wm., Alexandria, Va., Pekin duck.

Jessup, Gordon L., Washington, D. C., pilot black snake.

Johns Hopkins Research Center, Baltimore, Md., 13 chimpanzees.*

Jones, Mrs. G. E., Washington, D. C., guinea fowl.

Joy, Jack, Kansas City, Mo., copperhead.

Joyner, Harry §8., Arlington, Va., snapping turtle.

Kefauver, Senator Estes, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Kent, W. W., Silver Spring, Md., 2 raccoons.

Kerschbaum, Matt, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Kidwell, James, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Kitts, J. F., Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.

Kitts, Jean and Buddy, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Knutson, Mrs. A. L., Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Kundahl, Mary Flo, Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck.

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Cairo, Egypt, fennec fox, 3 sand skinks, 2 agamas, 5
sand vipers, 3 horned vipers, 2 black vipers.

Leas, Russell, Hoadly, Va., baby brown bat.

Lebella, Mrs. Harry, Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Lee, Mrs. Sally, Washington, D. C., giant land snail.

Leslie, Carol, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Lewis, Patsy, Mount Rainier, Md., Pekin duck.

Lister, H. E., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Lyon, L. P., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Mackellar, G. W., Hyattsville, Md., Pekin duck.

Mackintosh, Hugh, Bethesda, Md., 3 water snakes.

Maguire, Mrs. John A., Herndon, Va., pigeon.

Manson, Mrs. P. It., Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Manyette, Mr. and Mrs. Paul, Washington, D. C., mustached monkey.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

May, J. Q., Falls Church, Va., diamondback terrapin.

McCabe, Elaine, and Knox, Bobby, Washington, D. C., large snapping turtle.

McCabe, John, Arlington, Va., snowy owl.*

McCourtney, Bruce, Norge, Va., 4 narrow-nosed frogs.

McDonald, R., Chevy Chase, Md., rabbit.

McEvoy, Miss H., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

McKinley, Douglas, Washington, D. C., silkworm.

McKnight, R. E., Avondale, Md., opossum.

McMichael, B. F., Washington, D. C., weasel.

Memory, Mrs. Amrion, Takoma Park, Md., Pekin duck.

Mercarlo, Karen, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Miller, Patricia Anna, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Milner, James L., Takoma Park, Md., mole.

Miner, Ernest H., Jr., Washington, D. C., 2 speckled king snakes,* 2 ornate
whipsnakes,* red racer.*

Mize, Mrs. A. M., Rockville, Md., 15 bantam fowl.*

Monagon, Cathleen, Washington, D. C., robin.

Monks, Tommy, Washington, D. C., American crow.

Montgomery, C. R., Ringling Brothers Barnum & Bailey Circus, Sarasota, Fla.,
Indian python,* African python.*

Mooney, Mrs. A., Arlington, Va., brown capuchin.

Moore, Mrs. Bessie, Washington, D. C. cardinal.

Moore, Laird C., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Morgan, Harriett, Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Moriarity, Mrs. Wm. B., Chevy Chase, Md., rabbit.

Muller, Mrs. BE. D., Washington, D. C., red fox.

Murray, M. L., Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Musser, George, Arlington, Va., copperhead, timber rattler.

Myers, Howard A., Silver Spring, Md., brown capuchin.

National Institutes of Health, Betheseda, Md., through Samuel Poiley, 13 minks,
13 ferrets.

Nelson, Thurman M., Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Nugent, Robert, Greenbelt, Md., skunk.

O’Donnell’s Restaurant, through Mr. Burger, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Pahlow, Mrs. H., Washington, D. C., 2 Cumberland terrapins.

Paraous, Col. M. V., Bethesda, Md., cardinal.

Payne, Jack, Mount Rainier, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Payne, Marie, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Payton, Mary Lee, North Arlington, Va., chicken, Pekin duck.

Pearson, 8. H., Greenbelt, Md., snapping turtle.

Peratino, Mrs. William, Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Pet House, Washington, D. C., 4 prairie dogs.

Petro, Mrs. Joseph, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Pickett, Lamar, Vienna, Va., pigeon hawk.

Plavsky, Mrs. R. K., Washington, D. C., American crow.

Potter, Mrs. Vergie, Washington, D. C., 4 Pekin ducks.

Powell, Mr. and Mrs. J. H., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Preston, John, Mount Pleasant, Pa., platinum fox.

Pusey, George O., Falls Church, Va., titi monkey.

Randolph, Frank, Lanham, Md., 4 American crows.

Randolph, Susan, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Ray, Mrs. Nan C., Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.*

Reindel, John A., Alexandria, Va., mole snake.

Secretary's Report, 1952.—Appendix 7 PLATE 3

RecENT ADDITIONS TO THE NaTIoNAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK COLLECTIONS

Left, Baby pygmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis) held by Assistant Headkeeper
Ralph Norris. The baby is known as “Gumdrop XII” as it is the twelfth pygmy
hippopotamus to be born in the Zoo. Right, Young Bornean small-toothed civet
(Arctogalidia trivirgata). Length of adults from tip of nose to base of tail, 17 to 21
inches. The three continuous black stripes on the back from neck to hips distinguish
them from the palm civets (Paradoxurus), of somewhat similar appearance. (Photo-
graphs by Ernest P. Walker.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Rinehart, Max, Arlington, Va., Florida gallinule.

Roberts, Burt, Washington, D. C., 2 barn owls.

Roberts, H., Washington, D. C., mole snake.

Robins, Martin, Silver Spring, Md., snapping turtle.

Rodban, Kathleene, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Roger, J., Bethesda, Md., 6 black snakes.

Rogers, Mrs. Margarette, Landover, Md., 2 albino ferrets.*

Rollins, J. W., Mechanicsville, Md., bald eagle.

Royer, Scott, Bethesda, Md., 2 black-widow spiders.

Rubenstein, Stan, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Russel, R. D., Washington, D. C., Nias wattled mynah.*

Ryan, Cathy, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Sakii, Patsy, Washington, D. C., robin.

Sallwan, Walter C., Corona, Calif., tarantula.

Sanders, Mrs. V. L., Arlington, Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Saunders, Jeannie, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Schaide, F. P., Arlington, Va., common loon.

Scheid, Pat, and West, David, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 musk turtles.

Schultz, Theodore A., Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake, desert rattler.*

Schwab, EH. M., Richmond, Va., 4 Bengali finches.

Seruggs, William, Washington, D. C., cottontail rabbit.

Securley, William, Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Seegers, Scott, McLean, Va., 2 blue jays.*

Shepherd, Elsie M., Washington, D. C., 2 black-cheeked lovebirds,* canary.*

Sherwood, W. Cullen, and Murphy, A. Page, Fairfax, Va., timber rattlesnake.

Shomette, Petey, Landover Hills, Md., smooth-sealed green snake.

Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D. C., 5 rabbits.

Simonton, L. J., Washington, D. C., hamster.

Sims, J. W., Hyattsville, Md., 3 grass parakeets.

Singer, Mrs. Harold, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Sloane, HE. K., Norfolk, Va., least tern.

Smith, Mrs. B. H., Arlington, Va., 2 rabbits.

Smith, Mrs. C., Jr., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Smith, Mrs. C. W., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Spangenberg, Earl J. M., Takoma Park, Md., 2 opossums.

Sparks, P. W., Bladensburg, Md., banded krait, 2 Russell’s vipers, 150 Indian
finches.*

Spikes, R. A., Alexandria, Va., 3 horned lizards.

Stanley, A. C., Washington, D. C., 2 horned lizards.

Steinbraker, Mrs. Louis, Alexandria, Va., margay cat.

Swaney, W. K., Falls Church, Va., pilot black snake.

Sweeney, J. M., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck, 4 mallard ducks.

Swift, Joseph M., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Tager, Paul, Rockville, Md., 2 barn owls, gray fox.

Taylor, Mary K., Washington, D. C., 2 hooded rats.

Thompson, Mrs. Francis B., Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.*

Thornton, Mrs. Allen F., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Tumber, Bill, Charlotte, N. C., Hamadryas baboon.

Twentieth Century-Fox Studios, Washington, D. C., kangaroo.

Tyrrell, W. Bryant, Takoma Park, Md., 4 smooth-sealed green snakes.

United States Army Medical Unit in Malaya, through Lt. Col. Robert Traub,
2 orangutans, 2 small-toothed civets, 4 ferret-badgers, 2 tree shrews, 4 Mount
Kinabalu black rats, 1 Bornean porcupine, 1 spineless hedgehog.

236639—53——_8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

United States Customs, Washington, D. C., 2 grass parakeets.*

United States Fish and Wildlife Service:

Through John H. Buckalew, Cambridge, Md., Florida sandhill crane.

Through Gardner Bump and State of New Mexico, 2 MacQueen’s bustards.

Through Vernon Ekedahl, Willows, Calif., 5 Hutchins’s geese, 7 white-fronted
geese, 10 snow geese, 17 cackling geese, 9 Ross’s geese, 2 whistling swans.

Through Dr. H. 8. Mosby, Blacksburg, Va., golden eagle.

Through Washington, D. C., office, wood rat.

United States Geological Survey, Washington, D. C., through I. G. Sohn, 2
horseshoe crabs.

University of Colorado Museum, Boulder, Colo., through Hugo G. Rodeck, 8
prairie rattlesnakes.

Van Dusen, Capt. E. R., Presidio of Monterey, Calif., Alexandrine parakeet.

Van Tassel, Ed, San Antonio, Tex., 2 ribbon snakes,* garter snake,* swift lizard.*

Van Tassel, Edward, Arlington, Va., copperhead snake.*

Vazquez, Albert, Arlington, Va., black snake.*

Vernon, J., Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Virgin, Elizabeth, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Voigt, Paul, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Walkup, Joe, Landover, Md., tree frog.

Walmsley, Alan, Arlington, Va., gopher tortoise.

Walsh, Mrs. Katie, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Walton, Mrs. A. I., Takoma Park, Md., blue jay.

Warren, Mrs. Arthur L., Falls Church, Va., rabbit.

Watkins, Jerry, Washington, D. C., hamster.

Weaver, Mrs. G., East Riverdale, Md., raccoon.

Weir, Mrs. R. H., Silver Spring, Md., worm snake.

Wells, Dr. R. Loma, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Whitaker, William J., Washington, D. C., Australian black swan.

White, Mr., Richmond, Va., lion cub.*

White, Melvin, Jefferson Heights, Md., barn owl.

Whitman, Phily H., Laurel, Md., pilot black snake.

Wicker, Nell, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Wightman, F. E., Green Meadows, Md., timber rattler.

Williams, Arthur, Washington, D. C., Muscovy duck.

Williams, Sylvester, Washington, D. C., black racer, 2 mole snakes.

Wilson, Steve and Tommy, Arlington, Va., 3 box turtles, 2 Pekin ducks.

Winkle, Mrs. Barbara, Chevy Chase, Md., pied-billed grebe.

Witt, Bill, Arlington, Va., fox snake, king snake, box turtle, Holbrook king
snake,* fox snake,* 2 blue racers,* pilot black snake,* ribbon snake,* fence
lizard,* 2 worrn snakes,* green snake.*

Wolf, J., Bellmead, Md., 2 mallard ducks.

Xanten, Bill, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle, alligator.

Young, Oliver B., Arlington, Va., snapping turtle.

Zust, Ralph and James, Washington, D. C., opossum.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

Animals that are kept on exhibition are usually not under conditions
that are most favorable for breeding and raising young. However,
occasionally young are born or hatched that are outstanding in their
interest. The following were produced in the Zoo during the fiscal
year:

SECRETARY’S REPORT

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
Ammotragus lervia....-.---------- AOU AC ae i a Ss ene tins “ae Pigs
British, Park seatile=.- 2st. s 2
ere eee ere ae {ie Enhohlandicattiom= === =a.
Cephalophus nigrifrons__---------- Black-fronted duiker_________.__-

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C. Green guenon X vervet guenon___
a. pygerythrus.

CERVULS ND DNONT nt ese nee ee Tee Japanese; deers. 2r ne 26 2 ott A _&
Choeropsis liberiensis____---------- Pygmy hippopotamus___________-
Comopithecus hamadryas-_--_-------- Hamadryas baboon____________--
Beactead {Brown fallow deer_____----------
Viz pf Peis Le ee | White tallowsdeers =. sos at eee

Dasyprocta prymnolopha_-_-_-------- AROULICE ae tas See ee See Pee
Prythrecebue paiassee. LAV 8 Patas;monkeyse. 2 520. 2 ay it.
TEPUSO VECO ke ek Puma ct ae)
Melis;leb. seca eatet see bree gt be Bhiens 3A4 9. see ee ler oe eee 2
Giraffa camelopardalis____.-.-_---- Nuibianreiraie tn ore ON
Hippopotamus amphibius_—--------- Happopotanause 2 se cea sts tek
Hydropotes tnermiss. 2.22. oh 22 Chinese water deer____________--
Leontocebus rosalia_._..-.----_---- Silky marmosete 22102 V20a: Bit!
Blane, Glamaoy. lesnriiivns 62) & “ts Tlamat iLemm sacden oid aqaritiieny:
Macaca, fyulet@e'. nna ft 2 ke gan Ithesus monkpy. . 2<4555-544cce5-
Maustela*eversmannt= 22-2 2-255. 22. Rerrege See mee ee ee ah ote IN oe
WME OCASTOTACOUM USE saa ae ae eee ee Copp SOPRA rh ee aL
Odocoileus virginianus_____-_-_---- Virpinia deers 920 759s alobune
Poephagus grunniens______---_---- Wale » sebonmblasuint bo Ornish
Taurotragus oryssetog al tives li are Hiand toan}) od? al wratiase elas
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus mid- MWUybrid bear___________________-_

dendor fii.
Trichosurus vulpecula_......------- Australian long-eared opossum _ ___
Wallabimngilissees otyteties hw tov. Agile wallabyd «$4oct satsere coal:
BIRDS

Water dycuek oc ee ee

Anas platyrhynchos. ~~~ —- ~~ ~~~ —_ 2 ee seaCe IU Fey lve Knol are as ees
Drang COMQQCNS1G 2s aa sn a RNR Rte OORD. Sakti ce Sei
ICE CUES ee Se ee a NVROD DEE SWAN 5. at eee ee ee
Gallusigaliuge =e ote See Redjungletow) i222 sca ae. Soe
Gennaeus leucomelanus__._._____-- Nepal tkaleeges:e 2. = 222222 iL 5
Haliaeetus leucocephalus_.._------- Dal GnC Ae meta ee ce
Larus novaehollandiae__-._..._---- Syl ey aby ts Wl wa Aa aetna sara alae comet alpina
Streptopelia tranquebarica________-_- Blue-headed ring dove__________-
Taeniopygia castanotis__.__._______- Zepre When Sse es
Tigrisoma lineatum__-.-._-------- SiGeh DIMGeEMt sarees fete MEE Tee

REPTILES

Agkistrodon mokesen_.--_-_____-_- Copperheadat ini: batlek eeper Lhia
Najavingpudians. 208 uted 22%. 2206 Indigmucobra.e3 stb 25 hae

Pe RE PWNNN ORK RK OW NOR eee

bo 09

p—_ pe

RON RH RS be dO O&O oF

it is gratifying to note that the pair of mole rats (Cryptomys
lugardi) from southeastern Africa raised two young that were born
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

last year. These are little-known burrowing creatures that somewhat
resemble the pocket gophers of South America but are dark lead color
with a large white blotch on the forehead. Their front teeth project
even more than in most rodents and are used in burrowing.

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

The work of rehabilitating the large-mammal house, which was
begun in the previous fiscal year, was completed December 10, 1951.

Contract was let for the installation of zone heat regulators in the
small-mammal and reptile houses. These should result in better con-
trol of the temperature than has heretofore been possible and should
effect enough of a saving in heat to more than pay for the
installation.

Every working day of the construction and maintenance depart-
ment involves not only the routine work of cleaning the buildings and
grounds, unstopping sewers and drains that have become clogged,
repairing leaky faucets, broken windows, cages, cage doors, cage locks,
and innumerable other small items, but also additional jobs of some-
what greater scope. The more important of these during the fiscal
year were:

1. Remodeled bear cage, between monkey house and lion house.

2. Dismantled four old wooden animal shelters and replaced them with new
brick-concrete shelters, in the line of cages above the reptile house.

3. Made extensive repairs to all outside cages attached to the bird house, and
painted them.

4. Remodeled nine cages in the finch room at the bird house in new design, with
plate glass covering upper half and electric-weld wire fabric covering lower half
of cages.

5. Applied bituminous concrete to areas between road curbing and sidewalks
along main roadway to prevent erosion, eliminate mud, and lessen danger of
visitors’ stumbling into trafiic.

6. Installed new electric water heaters in annex No. 1 and in the lion house.

7. Made general repairs to 100 wooden park benches.

8. Cast new concrete bench legs and arms and concrete picnic-table tops.

9. Repaired iron work and placed new where needed, and applied three coats
of paint on large outdoor eagle cage.

10. Dismantled old wooden shelters and replaced them with new brick-concrete
shelters in large outdoor flight cage.

11. Made general repairs to boilers in the central heating plant, conduit system,
and heating systems within the buildings. In the central heating plant this in-
volved replacement of all fire-box tubing in the three boilers; cleaning and paint-
ing the interior and exterior of the boilers; renewal of parts in the blow-off
valves ; replacement of baffle walls, grates, and side bars. All steam and electric
pumps and traps in the boiler room were overhauled, repaired and worn parts
replaced, and the interior of the boiler room was painted. Throughout the
heating system unserviceable steam lines were replaced. Worn parts in steam
traps were repaired and steam traps that were beyond repair were replaced with
new ones. Worn parts in the vacuum pumps were replaced where needed.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 107

The fight to eradicate poison ivy in the Zoo grounds is being con-
tinued. This pest has been almost completely eliminated in those parts
most frequented by the public, and control measures are being ex-
tended to more remote sections to keep it from spreading to areas
used by the public. Otherwise the long-established policy of leaving
the woodlands undisturbed is being followed.

Over a period of years there has been a gradual increase in the
amount of trimming of trees along the roads, walks, and paths, and in
the exhibition area. Because of their great age, some of the trees
are dying and must be cut down. Others must be trimmed to re-
move dead or broken limbs which might fall and injure people or
animals, or damage automobiles or structures within the grounds.

During the year a system was inaugurated of appointing tempo-
rary intermittent policemen to serve on Saturdays, Sundays, and holi-
days during the seasons of unusually heavy attendance or to relieve
regular men when necessary. This plan is proving highly satisfac-
tory, as it makes more men available for the few days of the year
when they are most urgently needed without maintaining a large
permanent force.

As in previous years the Zoo received gifts of various kinds of
foed that could not be sold for human consumption but was suitable
foranimals. This helps considerably to hold purchases to a minimum.
Among the many kinds of such foods were 37,000 pounds of frozen
skinned rabbits, frozen strawberries, frozen kale, and butter. Out-
standing aid in supplying such material was given by W. Bruce
Matthews, United States Marshal, who turned over food that was
condemned through the courts. A considerable assortment came
also from the Safeway Stores, Inc., which had suffered a fire at one
of its establishments. From other sources there came 21 bags of
English walnuts, 600 pounds of candy, 3,200 pounds of dog food, 25
cases of assorted baby food, 46 cases of egg noodles, 15 cases of maca-
roni, 100 cases of assorted dog and cat food, 450 pounds of turnips,
and some avocados. The General Services Administration donated
36 cases of prunes no longer suitable for human consumption. The
Fish and Wildlife Service sent the Zoo more than 200 four-week-old
chicks that had been used in certain experiments but were still suit-
able for animal food. The National Institutes of Health, Navy Med-
ical Center, and Army Medical Center gave mice, rats, guinea pigs,
rabbits, and other animals no longer suitable for their purposes.
The practice has been continued of picking up from grocery stores
in the vicinity of the Zoo quantities of discarded green material such
as cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce, beet tops, and celery stalks. This
provides an abundance of greens for the animals and helps reduce
purchases of such foods.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
VISITORS

The estimated number of visitors to the Zoo was 3,294,569, or
165,831 less than for the year 1951, a decrease due mainly to incle-
ment weather in the spring of 1952, particularly on week ends and
holidays, which deterred persons from the District of Columbia, Mary-
land, and Virginia from visiting the Zoo. There was little change,
however, in the record of automobile attendance and groups coming
by bus.

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1952

Joly, OO1), Soe eee 49G4000 february .--* + 133, 900
Aueust ts St ee see 459.000!) March (22L0s0 5 Sees ts ter = 147, 650
September: 2 202b4 4 33 ps2 8795500) April cecteire_2 Seis ec 344, 719
Octobetea 2 = 3 310) 200 || May 24 <s2-55 73 4a 339, 500
November 222 tes es 149 FOO} une tl= oe ee eee 341, 500
December 2a) aaa ean ea 86, 100 es ees
January. (1952)2 =~ 105, S00 Totale: soe ces see nee 3, 294, 569

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in Canada and 32 States, some
as far away as Maine, Florida, Oklahoma, Kansas, and South Dakota.
This was an increase of 31 groups and 7,874 individuals in groups
over last year.

Number of groups from schools

ee eS ee ———————— Ee

eitibadl Number Number | Number

Locality of groups | in groups Locality of groups | in groups
IMApaMia see ses see oo 11 407°|\) Miississipplessss--2h neo =2 ono 2 126
Gangdarisast _teeos = fare 1 64.1 Missouri’... .c2e' 84 sees e 2 60
Gonnecticut === 12 572 || New Hampshire._-__---------- 1 34
Delaware. ee sesese eee eae 9 343) || New Jersey...--- 5.522222 5-- 17 1, 150
District of Columbia- -------- 149 6,596 || New York=<-=--2-3-=--"~=_-- 66 4, 665
Mloridassee see ose eee 7 907. || North Carolinals2~ — 22—2-2-= 215 8, 795
Georgia = = et 46 Se S70) ODIO = sees aaee eee ene 67 2,475
Winoiss:-.* = 252s22- 36522 4 S51 «|| pOKlahomai sees SUS SCE Ke 1 23
InCaninss soso esa ea 9 795: ||| Pennsylvania... ---.-------- 266 18, 904
TOW Rte ee ee 4 102) |\"Rhode'Island<-2 >. -22222--=2-- 2 75
Kansasiees sit 352s bes cee u 97 ||, South) @érolinass-e--- =. -2.-- 35 1, 227
Kentueky <e- aes es seas 18 637. ||, South Dakota a= --22-=--.---- 1 20
Moulsiangd24" . 228220 ae J 71 ||! Pennesseot te aio. sees Fo NS 24 2,015
Maine... ses ete cess 8 604 I), Mirginigeasess--2-2=22-s-nce—> 498 26, 967
IMWarylanG esse eet ena 619 $5, 381. || West Virginia__-.._--------_- 65 4,902
Massachusetts__..------------ 10 356) | Wisconsin. £2 222s See 1 21
Milehigant to 2 See ae eee 16 1,159 |
IMINOSOLR! eae oe oe ae 3 85 Totals ee ee ee 2,191 123, 872

ee

About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zco are counted by
the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or country
from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of the cars
coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attend-
ance, by States, of people in private automobiles. Many of the District
of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring

SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

guests from other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1952 is as
follows:

Percent Percent
Washington, Dy Cen 2-2 Ju22c2_-3_ Si, Oi Obios ae seen a 9 Feet ls als
Marylan@ 22s 2. oo ee ek, PPE AWA SELB AAG ete 0 Uz eee ee ea ee 1.5
AVa SM a ee he Re TOC Ou NG We JOTSCY == 22a Se 1.4
Penns yiva Wiley eee eee 4,/a'| MassachusettS2—= 22-2) =sa 2. 1.0
ING Wee X00 Ke ee ae PAO LNG IO Es Se eee ee ee 9
INOTth Caroling see ea eae 7 Aagis || ol UB (a TAS RSS Selene ln tl te Oe met 8

The cars that made up the remaining 11.2 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from Africa, Alaska, Australia,
Austria, Canal Zone, Cuba, E] Salvador, England, Germany, Guam,
Guatemala, Hawaii, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Newfoundland, the
Philippines, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.

On the days of small attendance there are cars parked in the Zoo
from at least 15 States, Territories, the District, and foreign countries.
On average days there are cars from about 22 States, Territories, the
District, and foreign countries; and during the periods of greatest
attendance the cars represent not less than 34 different regions.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Replacement of antiquated structures that have long since ceased to
be suitable for the purposes for which they are used is still the prin-
cipal need of the Zoo. The more urgently needed buildings are: (1)
A new administration building to replace the 147-year-old historic
landmark now in use as an office building but which is neither suitably
located nor well adapted for the purpose; (2) a new building to house
antelopes and other medium-sized hoofed animals that require a
heated building; and (3) a fireproof service building for receiving
shipments of animals, quarantining animals, and caring for animals in
ill health or those that cannot be placed on exhibition.

It would be good economy in the long run to extend the steam
conduit from the large-mammal house to the bird house, at an esti-
mated cost of about $35,000. This would not only bring about a re-
duction in actual heating cost but would obviate boiler repairs and
replacements that may be necessary very soon, as two of the boilers
are 25 years old.

There is need for a veterinarian who can devote his entire time to
assisting the animal department in selecting suitable foods, presenting
foods to the animals in a satisfactory manner, practicing preventive
medicine, and making autopsies to determine causes of death. The
salary and operating cost for a veterinarian would be a good invest-
ment, for with professional care the lives of many animals in the Zoo
would undoubtedly be lengthened.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The steadily increasing popularity of the Zoo, as a source of both
entertainment and education, has developed such a volume of requests
for information that there is now need for an additional scientist to
share the load of answering queries and to assist in other administra-
tive work so that the Director and Assistant Director can devote more
time to general supervision of the Zoo and attention to visitors.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1952

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Scientific name Common name Number
Tachyglossidae:
Tachyglossus aculeatus___.------- Echidna, or spiny anteater_______ 2
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphiidae:
Caluromys, lanzger_.-- -- 2-2-2255 Woolly oposstm 2. 2 eee 1
Didelphis virginiana__.---------- Opossum hk deh EE PAE bh 2;
Marmosawnitisl gieiust Sto sae Murine opossum. 248522. .222L25 2
TCR MOS Spates) omens Ss ake eee Marine, Opossum... = 3. 2 oe ee 1
Phalangeridae:
Petaurus norfolcensis.......----- Australian flying phalanger______ 9
Trichosurus vulpecula______-_---~- Australian long-eared opossum___ 6
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus inustus.....-------- New Guinea tree kangaroo_____- 1
‘ Great gray kangaroo____________ 2
iM acrppumqageniaus 622 Oa teen- rae great gray kangaroo__-____ 1
Macropus'robustue!. 2 220 2 Euro wallaroos. 2220220 £2. Lee 2
Masromusirujusiiest #& £2). * 92908 Great red kangaroo____________- 3
Wallabia-agulis’ oa-ta- 24th 2 Ape wallaby:owedtss- fa. ea 2
PRIMATES
Tupaiidae:
Tupai montana baluensis__..--_-~- Kinabalu tree shrew_----------- 2
Lemuridae:
Lemunmaracod.. ote) ot <ok sory Acoumba lemur....-...-.------ 2
Lemut mongot) oz! 22 socc Sclontée Mongoose lemur___..-..-------. 2
Lorisidae:
Wychcebus Coucang. 2 2 -be aoe DIOW OMS eet cee Sn poe eee, 1
Cebidae:
Aotus trivirgatue.2....2.-.---222 Douroucouli, or night monkey____ 2
Ateles geoffroyt vellerosus___..---- Spider monkey 4.1e). in\5.. 4.256 2
ATA bi ts ee ee eI Sey Pale capnehin.# £22552 43. fac0* 5
Cebus capuewius: 2.1 25 set White-throated capuchin. -___--- 1
Cebus fatuelue. ote e oo eee se Weeping capuchin____________-- 2
Lagothriz lagotricha.__..-------- WeollyamMonkey- nee ee i
Callithricidae:
Leontocebus rosalia__......------ Silky or lion-headed marmoset- -- 4
Saimirt sctureus_. 22 2.sl2-. Le. Squirrel. monkey. su 22 ye 3

SECRETARY’S REPORT 111

Sctenttfic name Common name Number
Cercopithecidae:
Cercocebus aterrimus__----------- Black-crested mangabey-_--.------ 2
Cercocebus fuliginosus.-~--------- Sooty mangabey 2.2222 255s. 3
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus. Velvet guenon- .---~----------- 2
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus.-.. Green guenon------------------ 7
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X Hybrid, green guenon X vervet 2
C. a. pygerythrus. guenon.
Cercopithecus cephus------------ Moustached guenon._-...------- 3
Cercopithecus diana_-...-------- Diana monkey 2isses_ Bes Saks Ses 3
Cercopithecus diana roloway - - - --- Roloway monkey_--_----------- 1
Cercopithecus neglectus_--------- De Brazza’s guenon__.---------- 3
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista.. Lesser white-nosed guenon--_----- 1
Cercopithecus preussi_..--------- Preussi’s guenon..__.... 2923i2e 1
Colobus polykomos-_.------------ White-tailed colobus_.-_-------- 1
Comopithecus hamadryas--_------- Hamadryas baboon__-_---------- 3
Erythrocebus patas_...---------- iPatas,monkey.2 Jaa eee, eee 3
Macacatris. 222s ety Crab-eating macaque-_--.------- 1
Macaca trus mordaz_..---------- Javan macaque___.-.----------- 4
Macaca. lastotisn:. tee Chinese macaque-___------------ 1
Macaca maurus.-.------------- Moommacaquesis.i2i2uue ace sous 1
Macaca mulatiges—=- 5 22252 Rhesus monkey= 2222-2 eee nee 14
Macaca nemestrina__------------ Pig-tailed monkey -------------- 1
Macaca philippinensis_.--------- Philippine macaque-_-__---------- 6
Macaca sinica_2-- 22. ----=------ Toque, or bonnet monkey - - ----- ]
Macaca speciosa__.------------- Red-faced macaque------------- 1
Macaca sylvanus_..------------- Barbary, Apes 9-2 eee eee 4
Mandrillus leucophaeus-_--------- PD rilak an ashy yee yet ae eet 2
Mandrillus sphing..-..--------- Mandrilliz: ea. See ys eee 3
Papeoicomains..2- 252 2218 Ae ada Chacma baboon_._------------- 2
Papio cynocephalus_....-------- Goldentbaboonsses4eee. = =-—- = 1
Presbyits phayret.=..=2-2 282 ase Phayresilangur. 322 5-5 -2= 1
Pongidae:
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus. Hybrid gibbon----------------- 1
Hylobates hoolock_.------------- Hoolock eibboneessetves_stesee 1
Hilabates: 1a). eo beeen Sees White-handed gibbon_---------- 1
Pan. troglodytes2..26 UL S288b 2228 Chimpanzee: o..225esceeeheele 8
Pongo pygmaeus abelit____------- Oranguianse.s2s2252 2 see ses 1
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga iridactyla__------- Giantidnteatersss4e225t22 0 3522 2
Bradypodidae:
Choloepus didactylus._--_-------- Two-toed slothia.2 22 225.222 2k: 5
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus_-_--------- Hairy armadillossc2222l-2e2S2== 2
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus__.--------- Domestic rabbit.-.--—--_-=------— 9

Sylvilagus floridanus----.------- Cottontail rabbit’. =. 2) 2
112

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTE, 1952

RODENTIA
Scientific name Common name Number
Sciuridae:
Callosciurus caniceps....-~------ Southern Asiatic squirrel________ |
Callospermophilus lateralis__.-_-- Albino golden-mantled ground 1
squirrel].
Callospermophilus lateralis chryso- Golden-mantled ground squirrel__ 1
detrus.
Citellus beecheyt douglasit___._-_- Douglas’s ground squirrel________ 2,
Cynomys ludovicianus._.-------- Plains, prairierdog 22a: sunsiizeay 15
Moarmota monic. 22 Ss ease Woodchuck, or ground hog______ 6
Tamias sirtotuss= fs2o5 26 Ase see Eastern chipmunk_______-_____- 2
Heteromyidae:
Dipodomys microps_------------ Small-faced kangaroo rat________ 1
Cricetidae:
Gerbillus pyramidum__..-------- Hyramid gerbil__ ian _pissasae 1
Mesocricetus auratus___--------- Golden hamster.._..___._att sat 10
Neotoma. lepida......_._ au 229481 42 Pack rat.__.__.»_ sabi et een 1
Ondaira.2ibethicus_. 20peons_eeet Muskratsce 25.4... sane ou 1
Peromyscus maniculatus sonorien- Sonoran white-footed mouse_-___- ]
sis.
Tatera schinzt shirensis_______--- Nyasaland gerbil_ 52:22ac22_520s 1
Muridae:
Acomys cahirinusat Jo2244 se _2u2 Egyptian spiny mouse___________ 12
Cricetomys gambianus__--------- Giant pouched rat__-.---2__--.- 5
Mastomys coucha_...--. 224 22228 Multimammate mouse. _________ 1
DEUS ATES CO IB a Fea White and other domestic mice___ 10
Phloeomys cumingi__.----------- Slender-tailed cloud rat__________ 4
Rattus infraluteus___. swseled seuss Kinabalu giant rat-.......-..___ 1
Rattus norvegicus ee ease iia Deh Psa :
iw- tial oie White rat. io on2c se esende_ ze 2
eaiustsObanis. 25-2 See eee Large spiny-backed tree rat______ 1
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum___-------- Malay porcupine. _________-2 2 2 3
Aystriz galeata_ 222222 Sele aie African porcupine-—-—_- 45. Saas 2
TrAChiySuepurd aa eee Bornean porcupine_.__. _.___-__ 1
Erethizontidae:
Coendou sanctaemartae (or roth- Prehensile-tailed porcupine______ 1
schildt).
Caviidae:
Capita norcellus=* = ease Guinea pigs See eae 15
Dasyproctidae:
Cuntculus paca. —- — sabe Saat a ae, ee Lt ae ee +
Dasyprocta punctata__..___..-..-- Speckled, agouti__.....---sa.hee 2
Dasyprocta sp. =. - +i h arte el eS ee ee a ee Sal See 7
Chinchillidae:
Chinchilla chinchilla_....-------- Ghinghilis tee ee 1
OgLavim: VUSCACclte 4 eee IPertivian visCachae ==se sees 1
Capromyidae:
Myocastor coypus.— 2. enna OVINE 3
Ctenomyidae:

ClERONIYE SO eon oe ae ee Puce-Vleol a eee ee eee 1

SECRETARY’S REPORT

113

Scientific name Common name Number
Echimyidae:
Euryzygomatomys sp------------ Euryzygomatomys_-_.----------- 1
Thryonomyidae:
Thryonomys swinderianus_.------ Cane rat’ =. vine wsts eeteepegee 1
Bathyergidae:
Cryptomys lugardi_._..+=---2+=- Mole. rat. - | ae eeeeeoe see 4
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
Canis antarcticus_..------------ Dingo. 2 Aa ehe Sue sees 1
WANTS QMNOHS ss ae ae Oe COV OC Sa see ee ees eee ee 3
Canis niger rufus.-------------- Texas red_wolf_—__ eee as 2
Fennecus. 2erd@scrsssee2ses BS Hennec 0x. .-.—-..=-- Sesneen She 3
Nyctereutes procyonoides_...----- Raccoomdogut i. A X_ Hugs was Seis 5
Otocyon megalotis__------------- IBig-enneG fOk oe seo eee oe ae 4
Speothos venaticus__..----------- BSG Sen ee BENS 2
Urocyon cinereoargenteus__------- Gray flO s5.5— oo oer a BENS 13
Red Woxes 22) 3 ca SEE BOM 2
Vulpes fulva Se | oem eo sean yd x eee fox 1S po 2 ee BS 5
Ursidae:
Euarctos americanus -.---------- iBisek bear 2. ea SE ae 3
Helarctos malayanus-_----------- Malay or sun besra=seee Sat ses 1
Selenarctos thibetanus__.--------- Himalayan bear__.-----+------- 1
Thalarctos maritimus_----------- Polar. bear... sare shee 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus (ee bear... -22oaiwowe was 4
middendor fii. Hybrid bear, second generation - - 1
Tremarctos ornatus...----------- Spectacles bear. 252-2. 25-..-----= 1
(OPS ORGS 2 ee es ee European brown bear___.------- 1
Ursus arctos occidentalis__.------ Syrian brown bear__-_.--------- 2
WT SHRCOUOS oceans cee eae Alaskan Peninsula bear--------- 2
Ursus horribiligs..2---—- 292 S228 Grizzly.bear 6.2 Sasso Bek 2
Ursus middendorffi.-.----------- Kodiskspear. ter s2ceUh oe. sees = 1
Ursus sitkensts...- 2-22 -. AEA Sitka brown) DEAT. 25.5555 --=5- 3
IFAS Sy ke remo tee Fale oe Alaska brown bear_..----------- 1
Procyonidae:
Bassariscus astutus..._..-..------ Ringtail, or cacomistle__-_------ 1
INASUGUNOTICO 222-2 eles (Coaiwmnpiiciibes 3) Soe ae eee 6
WNasuanelsong= 22-5225 5 eck se Nelson’s coatimundi_..--------- 1
Potos-flavus 322 [OBO 0SEt Sake Kinkajou._. > 22h eins Sos 6
POVOEBD aos RE Dwart. kinkajot: bepscissusobore 2
IR ACCOOM Sas eee ee ape ies 24
PFOLNON WLOn 9 ow = ee Bink MACCOO Ms tit ae ane Srna es oe 4
Aibinosraccoone = =— == ae 1
Mustelidae:
Lutra canadensis vaga_---------- Florida otter oesae 2252 a eee 1
Meles meles leptorynchus_-------- Chinese. badger... a5 St secret 1
Mephitis mephitis nigra._-------- Skunk. 2 oso ste ae 11
Mustela eversmanni.----------- en Ge HHEMONL ~ elias eo i ee et
terme crc ys ata ce Albino ferrets a Se eee eee eee 2
Mustela frenata noveboracensis___. Weasel____-------------------- 2
Miaustela. vison. Se ese Mink 225s. 322< 26 - e ee 1
Spilogale phenare209_ 220022821 California spotted skunk - - ~~~ --- 1
RATIO LOTUS Se ee ee AMerICAns DAG Geren oes = eee 5
114. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Sctentific name Common name Number
Viverridae:
Arctogalidia trivirgata stigmatica__ Small-toothed civet_.-.--------- 1
Civettictis civetia.......------<2- African civet...._-.. aA 1
Crossarchus obscurus_----------- Kusimansesetores noe aes 1
Geénella tigrinusis {22 229. ee Genet. 20-2200 el. eRe 3
Myonaz sanguineus_.-.--------- Dwarf icivet.. Ss Sees 1
Nandinia binotata___----------- African palm civet_.._..-.------ 1
Viverra tangalunga....--------- Ground 0lvetes 2223S. esa ee 1
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans_-_------ East African spotted hyena____-_-_ 2
Felidae:
Felssvchauss 2) 5 tee ae as Jungleveatos2 504 atest aoe 1
Melzstconcolor_-._- 2 = 2ee Saas Puma... 4. a ee 3
Felis concolor X F.c. patagonica_._ Hybrid, North American puma X 9

South American puma.

Pelssileo 22 ee eae 5 eee bions 2 see) eae eee 6
Felts once fees a eee Jaguar!) ioe esceesase eee 3
Peelia pera glts = o..-352 2s be GOES fon os ce ee 1
Peli pardus 222... ce asbkass! Afmedn leopard: : 25 te ee 4
Peliusiigring) uaa as ae Margaly cattssl22 oo See 1
Felis tigrig:. 2 33 ee ipl Bengal tiger... d4<2s4s2ecsz8e 4
Felis tigris sumatrae_.___-------- DSumatran tiger 222222 eee see 1
Herpailurus yaguarundi_-_------- Vaguarundi- = Se ser et sateeneee if
Onctfelis geofirogia=.-. 33225 sude Geoffroy’sicat, a3 ee 2
Oncilla pardinoides___._--------- Lesser tiger cates eee wotetsd ]
PINNIPEDIA

Otariidae:
Zalophus californianus__-...----- California sea-lion_.._---------- 3

Phocidae:
Phaca uling —-—- 2 ee ee Harboriseal...=. =. + ieee eae 1

TUBULIDENTATA

Orycteropodidae:

Orycleronueafer: 222222 52.2s8545 Aardvark, or ant bear____--_---~- 1
PROBOSCIDEA

Elephantidae:
Elephaa marvimus..........8522221 Asiatic elephant... ~..222=5-22i6 3
Lozodonta africana oxyotis___----- African elephant... 5.48 4940 1

PERISSODACTYLA

Equidae:
Equus burchellii antiquorum_.----- Chapman’s zebra- ~~. ...--2-2214 1
Equus burchellii bohmi__--------- Grant’s zebraswee-csesbosasante 3
Biguiis cabalins..... shed sess Horse... 244ssuscies) ssisce aa's3 1
gms Kiang 228 sacacs0st8H3 Asiatic wild ass, or kiang____--__- 1
FGUUS ONOGET oso Ai Onagers Ceeesne Soe ee ee 1
Equus przewalskii__-...--------- Mongolian wild horse. _.--_----- 2

Rhinocerotidae:
Decerog biconuis as. s55-5- 554s African rhinoceros.....=<-=2===-
Rhinoceros unicornis.---.------- Great Indian one-horned rhinoc- 1

eros.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 115

ARTIODACTYLA
Sctentific name Common name Number
Suidae:
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani-_ East African wart hog___________ 2
eC | ah ee ne 2 ae ae ae European wild boar__.-_-----__- 1
Tayassuidae:
DaijaseWiojacw ss 2-8-2 4-222 LS Collared peccary......------__- 2
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsis liberiensis__.--------- Pygmy hippopotamus___________ 9
Hippopotamus amphibius - ------- Hippopotamius..._..-. =. shige 2
Camelidae:
Camelus bactrianus___.---------- Bactrianicamell... 22.2 2 2
Camelus dromedarius_-_---------- Single-humped camel-_-_________ 2
Hama guim@es oso Sas. ese eess | UY Sa 6 apes ee ea nee See RODE 4
Lama glama guanicoe__.-_------- Guanaee@s: o <5 22 os eet sen se 3
Pam pacdsa. 2220 CO eee seccs Hijo): ct. Sans ad oe Eee ee eg ea oe eS 4
Vicugna vicugna....---.-.~ SUL LS SSE SE ee ee 1
Cervidae:
Va Ce es ee ee eee T3301 UCG (Gy) ah ee ta 1
Cervus canadensis_.....--------- AMeriCanuelice. 2x So eee 5
Corousitlapius eases erst sooo S Red Geert Sete tee. nano ase 1
Cereus nipponec2o soe. Softens Japanese dpers2@ 4
Cervus nippon manchuricus....-_. Dybowsky’s deer___-_---------- 2
eee sis ae Geert eta cepa 15
SRG ho eerie rea White fallow, deer.-....--.=.-.._ 18
Hydropotes inermis._..---------- Chinese water deer____.-----_-- 6
Mazama sartorit. |... .-==-s=ee INA RATING Bee ce Ni Se 2
Odocoileus virginianus-_-_--------- Nirginia: deerss.2 oh onsen 5
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis___.------- Nubian. giratie 2. 5 eae a 5
Girapa relculdlagn = oe Reticulated giraffe..._....-....- 1
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervia_....--------- INGUGGAS 22582. ee ee ae 21
(BibOs qQaUrusea naa oases sees ae Gaunt eat ee ee ees 5
Bison beeen’ 22 AmericanvbisOn = 223-222 eee 9
OS ICUS ae eet NS Boe LOWUEAEt eee ees ne at aee 2
Weise re Highland or Kyloe cattle__- 3
Ream a Scar von Britishvparkcattie_o---—--=-—-= 8
Bubalus bubalts..—-—.-..-=- === Water buitglos sos 252 2
Capra aegagrus cretensis__------- ‘Agrimivport 2524 ole oe 1
Cephalophus muzwellit__._------- Maxwell’s duiker____.._-_------ 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons__—_------ Black-fronted duiker_.___.._.-.- 2
Hemitragus jemlahicus__----_----- UNS ee ee ee Ss ere 2
Oruculeucorysi 2 ca Arabian, Ony 56 oh. cc ccsee mn ee 1
Orieiarigsiae ens. 2k od Woolless.sheep....=---.-=--.222 1
One eurepaegsns ee, ONG S85" Mouflon.-i 42 255-2281 2T DA Ley 1
Poephagus grunniens_._.-_---_-- PV allot ca SRS) DESO REI Sy 5
Pseudois nayaur_..._--__----_-- Bharal or blue sheep___--------- 1
Myreceriis co fere = 21 Te, POOR s-OULG ‘African. buffalo. 22 2 Seals 3
Taurotragus oryx_..........----- Mandi x- 2-222 2-2 SYVSTL Se 3
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Spheniscidae:
Spheniscus demersus__.---------- JACKASS penguin. — == oS eo a 3
Spheniscus humboldti_--_-------- Humboldt’s penguin= —_.:_~ = 3
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
MURUELLO COMES — ae a ee Ostrich: 220. fee eee ee 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Rhea americand.s2s2s222-S Re Common. thea. See s225_28246 22 3
CASUARIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuartus casuartus aruensis_--—-- ‘AruyCassOWAaly asec 2 2s22 22S 1
Casuarius unappendiculatus occip- Island cassowary--------------- 1
italis.
Casuarius unappendiculatus un- One-wattled cassowary-_--------- 1
appendiculatus.
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae.------ CaMmmoniemiuiees.c 22552. s2ceee 4
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Crypturellus cinnamomeus__------ Salles hinamou see oc. wee 7
Crapturellus idoneus._ = 52 Santa Marta tinamou___-------- 8
Crapiuneiis80ut 22-82 ew ese Title tipAInGus <2 os2ce+ es sees 1
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus___----- White pelcan== 5 euros. Soo 2
Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis__ Brown pelican_-_--------------- 2
Pelecanus onocrotalus_._--------- Old World white pelican_____--_- 2
Sulidae:
Suladachiliirase 22 see Blue-facedboopyase= se. ase == 1
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus__ Farallon cormorant- ------------ 1
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
VAT eG: RETOULAS = oc on oe eee reat blue neron= oases ee 2
Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis___.- - Louisiana Heron. 24 eo eae 1
Leucophoys thilasaAd s224 52) tee BROW Y -ELTCb. ose cee ee ieee 3
Notophoyz novaehollandiae____--- White-faced heron.___..-_.----- 1
Nyctanassa vrolacea__ -_-_ = eee Yellow-crowned night heron_---- 1
Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli_-_---- Black-crowned night heron - ---~- 29
Tigrisoma lineatum_.......----- Wiser DiuLerUse soo OSs eoee ee 3

SECRETARY’S REPORT

117

Scientific name Common name Number
Balaenicipitidae:
Balaeniceps ret: 2 224 --se225 4256 Shoebillvense- s2-c- -entinalts cod 1
Cochleariidae:
Cochlearius cochleartus...-------- Boat-billed heron.__._--.------- 1
Ciconiidae:
Ciconia Glba_...=...=326e5 esis Wihite: stork. screbe or scnt peleennt 1
Dissoura episcopus._----=------- Woolly-necked stork__-.-------- 1
[bieicineréus...rcocs-sese-eescee™ Malayan painted stork____-_---- 1
Jabiru micteria..-- =a eee Jabinilst22. 22 pee eee eee 1
Leptoptilus crumeniferus_-------- Maraboue = - =. 22-3 eee 1
Leptoptilus dubius__-__.-.- tinta? Indian adjutant. =~ — 2 eee Bees 1
Leptoptilus javanicus.—---------- Ikesserjadqutant— = sess. eeee ae 2,
Mycteria americana--_----------- Woodibis. =3as-ste. 22a eee 1
Threskiornithidae:
Guara alba. c=. ---=------ 5882s White ibisic: - <3 een ee 4
Guara alba X G. rubra__-------- Hybrid, white ibis X scarlet ibis_- 1
Guara rubra__-b=e4seq-bebess te Scarletibis.c2: 22S eb as ee 3
Threskiornis melanocephala_-.---- Black-headed ibis..2-25-==--+-.+- 1
Threskiornis spinicollis__.------- Straw-necked ibis_....---------- 1
Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus antiquorum- ------ Old: World flamingos-6- 5522-5 2
Phoenicopterus chilensis__.------- Chilean flamingo. .es--b.b asco 6
Phoenicopterus ruber _----------- Cuban flamingo==-22=-.2-25=2=- 2
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Chauna torquata......222-+---2- Crested screamer..------------- 3
Anatidae:
Ag? SPONSGic. - 552) cu OLE BL Weodtdtck 2Jopaiener sai 28 3
Anasrbrasiiensie.. 22002 SEE Braziliantteal_ 5.2. .2vSayse sie 1
Mallardiduckevi==25 22 Sakae 52
Anas platyrhynchos— -——----oscs hae mallard iduchas_ evel 308 3
Anas platyrhynchos X Dafila Hybrid, mallard duck X pintail 1
acuta. duck.
Anas platyrhynchos domestica___-- Pekiniducks 2 = 5 Sanaa Saue 60
Anas poecilorhyncha..----------- Indian spotted-bill duck___------ 2
Anasenulnipes sae ae oe Black.duck = eearse Bettas. O88 3
Anser aloufrons 2 von. 222 oe ee White-fronted goose___--------- 5
Anser albifrons subsp_----------- Greenland white-fronted goose--- 1
Anser anser domestica__--_------ Moulouseigo0ses sss seee a ee Saas 2
Anseranas semipalmata__-_------- Australian pied goose. _--------- 1
Aythy@ afi highs 225 2S eek Lesser: scaup_ owen wos: sean 1
Aythya fuligula..clee oo8 Leet Tufted duckwsey ons. aula 1
Aythya valisineria__-.----------- Canvasback duck_____._-------- 2
Branta canadensis__..----------- Canada) @00se. 2.22 VOSS BEEBE 38
Branta canadensis occidentalis.... White-cheeked goose__---------- 12
Branta canadensis X Chen caeru- Hybrid, Canada goose X_ blue 2
lescens. goose.
Branta hutchinstt_.......-.----- Eutehins’s}f00se= —- 25-5 2 eee a
Branta hutchinsii minima-- ---- -- Cackling goose... 2uauarete S22 26
Brania rujficollis..«.2 29145 Bore Red-breasted goose_____-------- 2
Catrina moschata._...-..------- Muscovy ducks. 228ues eek 4
Cereopsis novaehollandiae- - - - - --- Cape Barren goose__------------ t
118

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number
Anatidae—Continued
Chen atlantica.=..<2s<<<22.2c228 Snow: goose-=2-2=2-22) MRL 11
Chen hyperborea snes eee Lesser snow goose_____________- 2
Chen ‘rosst5 5 22 5520206 FOU Ie Ross’s snow goose_____________- 12
Cheno pis alrateo 3.5 2h oo cee Bisck swan. ....=..2<.-. 22280" 7
Chloephaga leucoptera_.......---- Upland: goose. 222252 225232 81o 2 2
Coscoroba coscorobal 202 2222 SoS. Coscorobas 22 522i Pons sens 1
Cygnopsis cygnoides.__.....------ Domestic swan-goose._..._____- 2
Cygnus columbianus_....-------- Whistling -swanz= 2220222220 soaen 2
Cygnus -cygnus.cas<02255-L00 2 Whooper swan) 22oto 26 2igoms 4
Dajila Gettt@scs 52222 Se Pintailsccncccca- UL ee eal 3
Dafila spinicauda__.......------ Chilean pintail2ustie Uae 1
Dendrocygna autumnalis__..----- Black-bellied tree duck_..._..____ §2
Fulabera: indteg... 22. 2 se Bar-headed goose______________-_ rs
Mareca americana.......------- Baldpatees.2-s22s252-< oe 1
Metopiana peposaca____.-------- Rosy-billed pochard __________-_- 2
Nella rujings 2-25 5255.2) 535 Red-crested pochard___________- 2
Nettion carolinense__....-------- Green-winged teal_.___________- 1
Plectropterus gambiensis____----- Spur-winged goose_____________- 2
Querquedula cyanoptera__.------- Cinnamon, teal__. 2 /Sshusieger il
Querquedula discors._.-.-------- Blue-winged teal__.._.....__--- 2
Tadorna:taderna- 2220 be Lake Shelidrake.../#242 $23 A. aa 2
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
Catharites auras 27. 2.334 2332282 Durkey vultutre.<-<. 2.22 esehey 1
Coragups atratus...2e<25an Black vulture... 2..e-eo sce 3
Gupacwrueppelise = =. 22 ee Rippell’s vulture... =.=... 248! 2
Sarcoramphus papa__.---------- King. vulture... .=..2.-..aee 24 2
Vullunorynhus...... 420). ae2bees Andean, condor... 221 2sUeess4 oat 2
Sagittariidae:
Sagittarius serpentartus_____.---- Becretary Did...) on te ee eee 2
Accipitridae:
Aquila chrysaetos canadensis___-_- Golden eagle... 2... 2525 4ss_ il
Buteo fuscescens..._. = _stayty wie Red-backed buzzard___-_-._---- 2
Buteo jamaicensis_.....--------- Red-tailed hawk_........--_---- 8
Buteo lineatus lineatus__....----- Red-shouldered hawk___-_---_-- 3
Buteo platypterus_......--__---- Broad-winged hawk___._____---- 1
Buteo poecilochrous.......------- Buzzard eagle.2222: 2aso2du seus 1
Buteo swarmson’s.. . 22608 S2belu2 Swainson’s hawk___.._----_---- 2
Haliaeetus leucocephalus__.-_---- Bald eagle. . staslecbes: sn anatie 5
Haliaeetus leucogaster_......----- White-breasted sea eagle. ____-_-- 2
Haliaeetus leucoryphus____.__---- Crowned sea eagle..._....._----- 1
Hahastursndus. a eee Brahminy, kite. 2 5s=24uee Saahe 3
Harpie harpya......._ese28 apne Harpy eagle... 2icaebeces ai2e3 1
Milvago chimango__...---------- Chimangoss)ivja 23oesliened ates 3
Milvus migrans parasitus.___---- African yellow-billed kite_____--- 2
Spizaetus ornatus_..-_.--------- Black-and-white hawk eagle- - --- 1
Falconidae:
Falco mexicants_.<.2e222 stb Prairie:falconee a2 22a 2hee eee 1
Palco spartertus sien. Ssesct i Sparrow hawk... . vases es 2
Polyborus plancus_......-------- South American caracara__._---- 3

SECRETARY’S REPORT

GALLIFORMES
Scientific name Common name
Megapodiidae:
Alechunanatnamtse eee sn ee BUSH EGURKe ye oa ee eee ees
Cracidae:
Cra GID Erie shee Oo ee Blue-cered curassow - - ----------
Cras panamensis___..-.-------=- Fanams CuraAssOW. = \5.2——— 25 ==
Cran Fubra. oa = 5 eee Yellow-cered curassow - --_------
(Deigiss MROVMOL ee Sy re 5 = Chaehalsean 2 i255 las e 0 ee
Penelope 0umonte 4. = Crested @uan s&s) eee
Phasianidae:
EAR USTON USE LS a Avgus pheasant. 23.022 ens
Colinus virginianus._-...-.----- Bab White se. e eee ee
Crossopiilon.auriitum. ...__._.__ - Blue-eared pheasant-----_------
lainainn joy Lee See oe ee ee
GOUUSIOUIIUS 2 sere eae ete oe Bightingefowhs sonst sooe oo. eee
Redjunelefowles ses see eee
Gennaeus albocristatus_.-.------- White-crested kaleege.______-_.--
Gennaeus leucomelanus- --------- Nepal kalecres sen een 2 eee
Gennaeus nycthemerus_—--------- Silver pheasants. 2-2 ee eee
Hierophasis swinhoii_.---------- Swinhoe’s pheasant_____-_-_-_--
Odontophorus gujanensis marmo- Marbled Guiana quail____-------
ratus.
FZCVORCHUSTOUILS Seen ne a IRCatO Wleees = ame ee ne
: Ring-necked pheasant__.--------
LIAL E SS EASELS EES SS OER {aus ring-necked pheasant- - - --
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum___.-------- Vulturine guineafowl___________-
Guttera plumifera schubotzi_------ Uele crested guineafowl___--_-_--

Numida meleagrise—. 2-6-5 .< 32-2 eee SE Re er eel aie, SETI
ai White guineafowl_______--------
Meleagrididae:
Agriocharis ocellata._.....------- Ocellated turkey 2 22520. Ste nnet
Meleagris gallopavo___.---------- Waldstunkeyme= a2 ee oo eee
GRUIFORMES
Gruidae:
Anthropoides virgo.__.---------- Demoiselle crane__....---.-----
Balearica pavonina____---------- West African crowned crane_--_--
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps_._. East African crowned crane___---
Grus:canadensiseweslaviex aids Sandhill crane.__ 2 ste eee
Grusdeucauchen 2 annie achiin sas White-naped crane__-_---------
Grus leucogeranus._..----------- Siberian crane=e ===) eee eee Se
Psophiidae:
28 OPRtOACTEDULLILS =e = ae ae Gray-backed trumpeter ---------
Psophiawinides erat ns fais yes Green-backed trumpeter__-------
Rallidae:
Aramides cajaneasie22e2 224s 252 Wood. rail, seveemdedt aotetemaths
Fulicaamericandseegsans ees Americanicootse2a--e eee ness
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans___. Florida gallinule___--.----------
Tonornis martinica..------------ Purple. gallinule_ssewessy ese
Laterallus leucopyrrhus-_—-_------- Black-white crake__...._-------
Porphyrio poliocephalus__-_------- South Pacific swamp hen_-------

236639—53——9

iw)

WONrRN

—

BP NONNrFWONTH We

— re et at el i) me 09 bwwre

NS bd bd & & be
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number
Eurypygidae:
Furvpyga hewas sl. -.2 2. ase SUM DIGbeRn es 42a ee ee 2
Cariamidae:
Cartama crisndas==* 23S nse Cariama’or’seriama.US S22 2
Otidae:
Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii_. MacQueen’s bustard______--__-- 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Recurvirostridae:
Himantopus mexicanus - - -------- Black-necked stilt. _..._...._-_-. :
Burhinidae:
Banhienusiptstit CS ee South American thick-knee_____ d 1
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus_____------ European oystercatcher_______ ~~ 2
Charadriidae:
Charadrius vocierus_—- == =o = IKGdGer= 2 oka = ae oe a eee 1
Laridae:
TCT 2L SLO GCTUOLUS sae ee erring oullias Se ae ee eres 1
Larus delawarensis__..-.-...---- Ring-billed! oll we eee 2
Larus dominveanus.=— | = 2S Kelp Culler ee ee 2
Larus novaehollandiae___-------- SHAG Sr EAT es te ee, CA 4
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Columba livia_ -_----- en Mae Pe Homesticnpigconses 2-2. ==s eee 3
Columba nigrirostris.__.-__------ Short-billed pigeon_____________ 1
Gallicolumba luzonica___--------- Bleeding-heart dove_____-______- 2
GourasctcloriGiaenn3 = 2 cts-.— eto eh Victoria crowned pigeon___-___-__- 1
Streptopelia decaocto______------- Ring-necked dove. _-_________-- 15
Streptopelia tranquebarica--_------ Blue-headed ring dove-_--_-_____- 15
CTULGOHOSTOULCO ets White-winged dove____________- 6
Zenaidura macroura.._---------- Mourning dovVeL- sates sets ae 3
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Agapornis nigrigenis..-.-------- Black-cheeked parakeet - -__-__-_- 1
Amazona ae-tiva.._...-_..------- Blue-fronted parrot____________- 3
Amazona auropalliata____------- Yellow-naped parrot__-___------ 4
Amazona ochrocephala_-_-_-------- Yellow-headed parrot._--_---__- 3
Amazona oratria.... 2 222-L2lLe Double yellow-headed parrot_-____ 6
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus---- -- Hyacinthine macaw__--.-------- 1
Ara araraunas: 236242 oelsed Yellow-and-blue macaw---__-_-__-- 5
DoE itt ne, le Oe ea Se eee Ng Red, blue, and yellow macaw- __-_ 6
Ara militamstaiecusst Ie aly Green,macaw....-..-usseeem cule 1
Aratinga pertinaz_______-------- Rusty-cheeked parrot__-__-_---- 3
Brotogerys jugularis.___.-------- DLovisparakeetss 2242-2. 2
Callocephalon fimbriatum.._....-.. Gang-gang cockatoo--_--------- 8
Calyptorhynchus magnificus - - - - -- Banksian cockatoo___---_------- 1
Domicella garrula__..._.-------- Red Jlonyzeeuene evict shee 1
Forpus cyanopygius_.___-------- Little green parakeet____--__-_-- 1
Kekatoe dlbacss.olace ole th White cockatoo. wesw! eutiwss 1
Kakatoe ducrops__-_------------ Solomon Islands cockatoo- --_--_- 2

SECRETARY’S REPORT

121

Scientific name Common name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Kakatoeqaleniaqns= 22222542 tne Large sulphur-crested cockatoo___ 12
Kakatoe haematuropygia--_------ Red-vented cockatoo____________ 1
Kakatoe leadbeaterit____-_-------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo___________ 18
Kakatoe moluccensis_-_---..----- Great red-crested cockatoo-_ _____ 1
Kakatoe sanguineus_-_--------- Bare-eyed cockatoo____________- 7
Melopsitlacus undulatus__------- Grassiparakeet#i2 2822.2 .2 k= 6
Nestor’notabilise. e228. 2. 2a 1iS0E 2 2: SNSS2 OO 0 os Se 1
Nymphicus hollandicus - - - - - -- -- Cockntieltees of oseet eS 1
Pionusimensiruus. .- 252-9 2.72... Blue-headed conure_______----_- 1
Platycerus eximus___-------- =~ Rosella parakeet —..-..-. -5 2 sscj< 2
Polytelis swainsont.. =. =.------ Barraband’s parakeet -_____-_--_-- 8
Pittaculaceupeginia. 2-3 Red-shouldered parakeet - - -____- 1
Psimculavkrament ove. 2-5-4222 Kramer’s parakeet... _________- 1
Psittaciws)erttnacus sea African gray parrot.4-4 2.00 24.4 1
CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae:
Eudynamys scolopacea_-_-------- Koels 2 22 Sect ee ee a bienniee 1
Musophagidae:
TQUTACO COnYtNOWs aa See et South African turaco___________- 1
Tauraco donaldsoni------------ Donaldson’s turaco____-____--_-- I
TUT ACO DOTS Ne Stine mae epee, Purple turaco: | ytsechod tae 3
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto alba pratincola........----- Barn’ owl... = 2-22 2b 522 ae v
Strigidae:
Bubo virginianus__---------.--- Great horned owl______________- 7
TRCHIEDG Relumuy t= oS oS 2 Se Malay fishing owl-_-_-__--__- fa 1
Nyctea nyctea__--------- fold h SHOW Y.OWl sno coe ee SS 1
Slit COMI VOT tase a= ane ee Barred owl... 2-520 -22 . Sear 11
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Pharomachus mocino__---------- Quetzalee ee ee eet 2
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
WI RCELOVGIOU SE ne oe ee cn Kookaburrase ene ne ae 2
Coraciidae:
Anthracoceros coronatus_-_-_------ Piedshornbillhes ae oe ee 2
Bucorvus abyssinicus__---_-_---- Abyssinian ground hornbill_ _-_-- 1
Momotidae:
Baryphthengus martit__._-_------ Great rufous motmot_______-_-_- 1
Momotus lessont_ 222225. 32}. ihesson’swmotmot. 2252 So 4
PICIFORMES
Capitonidae:
Megalaima asiatica____-_-------- Blue-throated barbet___.._------ 1
Megalaima zeylonica____-------- Streakediibarbetsso2¢ ee taseeeeee 1
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number
Ramphastidae:
Pteroglossus torquatus__.--------- Ringed toucanet_ = 5.222 2.22222 9
Ramphastos artel_...-_-.-------- Ariel toucan St sire ae eee 2
Ramphastos carinatus___--------- Sulphur-breasted toucan____-_--- 3
Ramphastos culminatus---------- White-breasted toucan_-_-_------ 1
Ramphastos innominatus-_-_------- odes toucan. 2202 aye Ss 1
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Cephalopterus ornatus-_---------- Umbrolanira 22 2 Soc. = 2. ae 1
Chasmorhynchus nudicollis-_-_----- Bellin... Set ee es eee 1
Rupicola rupicola=-__—-..------- Orange cock-of-the-rock____----- 4
Rupicola sanguinolenta_ -_------- Scarlet cock-of-the-rock____----- 2
Corvidae:
Corvus brachyrhynchos- - --------- American Crows: .. = =s5-=42--—= 6
Corvus corax principalis___-.----- INortherniraven ss 22 oes 1
Corens 4ns0lens os ban INGIGN CLOW = Sto. ee eee 2
Corvus monedula_._.-.---------- Jackaaw 5.9.8) - = sat SS tee 3
Cyanocitta cristata...----------- Bluejays eee 1
Cyanocoraz chrysops._----------- Drrses ayes eee 6
Gymnorhina hypoleuca-_---------- White-backed piping crow ------- 1
Pronuitial eae Yellow-billed magpie___--------- 1
Pica pica hudsonica_------------ American magpie___------------ 3
Urocissa caerulea... .------------ Formosan red-billed pie___------ 2
Ptilorhynchidae:
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus - ------- iBowerbirdt 22.2524. ee 8
Paradiseidae:
Paradis mons ae ae Red bird-of-paradise___.-------- 2
Paradisornis rudophi-_----------- Prince Rudolph’s bird-of-paradise_ 2
Timaliidae:
Garrulaz bicolor_._....-----2+-=24= White-headed laughing thrush__- 2
Pycnonotidae:
Heterophasia capistratra_-_------- Black-headed sibia___...-------- 1
Pycnonotus leucogenys-_---------- White-cheeked bulbul_-_--------- 1
Mimidae:
Mimus polyglottos polyglottos _ _ _-- Eastern mockingbird____-------- 2
Mimus polyglottos leucopterus--_- - - Western mockingbird ___-------- 1
Tozostoma rufum_—..------==2s< Brown thrashere.402 2202s sesee 1
Turdidae:
Geokichla citrina.------------=-- Orange-headed ground thrush_-_-- 1
Hylocichla mustelina __-~-------- Wood: thrish2=-25-2 2 1
Platycichla flavipes.._.__....--.- Yellow-footed thrush___--_------ J
Turdus migratorius____.._.------ Hastern:robinad 22 6 ae ea 5
Bombycillidae:
Bombycilla cedrorum _----------- Cedar WAaxWiDG.2 3253252 see = 1
Sturnidae:
Acridotheres tristis. ....--------- Commonpnynabess === eae 1
Gracula religiosa...-.--=-------- Wattled. mynahjoo..--.s.2escue 4
Gracula religiosa robusta_-_-_------ Nias wattled mynah------------ 1
Gracupica melanoptera___-------- Wine staring. .%2. us. 3s 1
Lamprocolius purpureus_ —------- Glossy starnlinowess 2. -—2--— eae 3
Spree-euperbue= = =~- 2-2-2 + -== Rbperb sinning soe eee eee 1
Sturnia malabarica...----------- Gray-headed mynah------------ 1

SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

Scientific name Common name Number
Ploceidae:
Aegintha temporalis___---------- Syaney) waxbille.. .sadceew steed 8
Aidemosyne cantans__.---------- Tawny waxbill. <= thelsse s5secu2 3
Aidemosyne malabarica__-------- indian silverbill...atosau. sees 2
Aidemosyne modesta___---------- Plum-headed finch__._..._---_-- 2
Alasteranus cinctus_. =. 204330 Arson Wingh.—_.. 393) a seen 2
Amadina fasciata_.------------- Cut-throat weaver finch_-_____-_- 5
Amandava amandava____-------- Strawberry finch. — 2.22528 sece 14
Diatropura proche. = 28h basodee Giant whydabststssccee) sueeteet 3
FISinlOlasinild a= == tae eee Red-eared waxbill_____________-_ 6
Fisivtida, cinerea:2 420 {2~.6 eey=, oe Common: waxbill_ ce: Sas cekeee 1
Euplectes franciscana-..---------- Bishop; weaver... -nisses8 Se sees 5
Frinlectes OF tape 2 : Sap Red bishop weaver_____-------- 2
Hypochera ultramarina___------- Combasou or indigobird_________ 1
Lonchura leucogastroides____---_-- Bengali finch®222-- 2. a= 1
Mania mojiGs22=_- =. eee ee White-headed munia__________-- 1
Mania malacta. — . -~-525555 22.) Black-throated munia_______-_-- 1
Munia punctulata__._.-.-------- Spicevfinch:s 2 ocatiner tig denen 16
Padda.oryzivorn@-> Geen bodes ise JAVaisparrowWs=teessstacceldeose 14
Passer domesticus. s\2oo20% 4-04) House sparrow. =... -2 .wes sucess 1
Ploceus boyd sate nnt fenieiiae Baya weaverss: ... -4<sert- shekel 2
Ploceus witellinwysennn Joh oasis Vitelline masked weaver_-__------ 5
Poephila acuticauda_......-.---- Long-tailed finch! {3228 ee ate 3
Oueledi guelege. te. 2 Red-billed weaver. __.---------- 1
Sporaeginthus melipodus_-_------- Orange-cheeked waxbill___------ 12
Sieganopleura bichenovit_____---- BYEHeNO;Shiin Claes ae 1
Steganura paradisea___.--------- Paradise whydah_..2.--..52hie3 4
Taentopygia castanotis.__-_------ Zebrachineh. 2) <4 es Seg tee woh eat! 12
Uraeginthus bengalus_....------- Cordon-bleu finch____-_._------ 4
Icteridae:
Amblyrhamphus holosericeus-__-_---- Scarlet-headed blackbird -_ - ------ 1
Teterus giraudt.. 28.425 ees Giraud’s oriole... -y44has 4 ebuk 3
Molothrus bonartensis_____-_---- Shiny, cowbitdes==ees = aaa 1
Notiopsar curaeus___-.---------- Chilean blackbirdse4e== 224 ==== 2
Pentes déhlinnit nics ae Sh Military starling. ~aa48- yess ee 1
Outscalus quisculaase=. Seee2 4-42 Purple prackle— so<ens sje ose 1
Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus_._.__ Yellow-headed blackbird _ - - ~~ --- 1
Xanthornis angustifrons..-------- Orapendula. = = ot oS ee ee 1
Thraupidae:
Calospiza rujicapilla= 2-282 ee Brown-headed tanager - -___----- 1
Prranga oluvaceae 52.226 22s Scarlet tanager- 222200405 oe ee 1
Pa Ge TUT ee ee ee eee ee Summer tanagenes = aa eee 1
HQHEpROCelLUus CGTOO. =~... = Silver-beaked tanager_-_-_--_------ 1
Ramphocelus dimidiatus __--_---- Crimsonrusnae ele ee ee 2
Ramphocelus flammigerus -—------ Yellow taneeer-.-5.25-. osee5 5 2
Ramphocelus passerinit___------- Passerini’s tanaper 202 5.2 1
PURO DTS CONG or fae OE ee ee IBIME GAUSCOR on a ta ea 8
LN ROE TES SDOMTIOM Pa Sat ae Sasa = Black-winged palm tanager -- - --- 1
Fringillidae:
Carpodacus mexicanus_---------- Mexican house finch_________-_-- 2
Carpodacus purpureus californicus. California purple finch -_-__------ 1
Cyanocompsa argentina__-------- Argentine blue grosbeak_-------- 1
Lophospingus pusillus__...------ Black-crested finch. ------------ 1
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number
Fringillidae—Continued
Melopyrrha nigra_-------------- Oubsan -bullfineh. £5290 Sey 1
Melospiza melodia-_ --------~----- bonpisparrow.. = <0. Some 1
Paroaria cucullata__------------ Brazilian cardinal _____--_------ 1
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis— — -—-- Black-eared cardinal______-_-~--- 1
Passerella iliaca_.. =.= 2 2-----+ Hox sparrow: = ---2028n eee 1
Passerina ciris.._-.-.-_-----=-- Painted bunting: =-S22ee) Soe 1
Passerina cyanea__--_---------- indice bunting-2 aa senses 1
Pheucticus aureoventris_-—- ~~ ---- Bleack-and-yellow grosbeak ------- 2
Phrygilus fruticeituie £22 2232” Mourning finch = ~== =>. 2220" 2
Phrygilus.gayi-o2--2) 2822. SO Gay’s gray-headed finch__------_- 1
Poospiza torquata_-_------------- Ringed warbling finch__----_----- 2
Richmondena cardinalis__------- - Cardinal... -=-3=-35 3 See 2
Serinus canarius__-------------- Canary....--2 SRA Ao 10
Serinus. icterus..--===-=-2U.2-225 Green singing finch /__-_----_--- 1
Sicalis lutecla._.ce $205.20 2202 3 Saffron.fineh.--===s---SS08. Some 20
Sporophila aurita ti. 22222 52226 Hicks’s. seedeater- = = =2-2_-2-- +222 1
Sporophila guituralis.-.--------- Yellow-billed seedeater_--------- 16
Sporophila melanocephala_------- Black-headed seedeater-__-_-_--- - --- 2
Traris.olwwaceG-2==- == Saas ae Mexican grassquit-__-_----------- 1
Volatinia jacarina.------------- Blue-black grassquit ---_--------- 1
Zonotrichia albicollis_ _---------- White-throated sparrow- -------- 3
REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississipiensis - - - - ----- Alligator .<.—-2 ein ruc 30
Alligator. sinensis £05 9_ 822212208 Chinese. alligators 2325¢ 22202520 2
Ostman laltrostrig_.=22--45-5-—= Broad-snouted caiman - -------- 1
Caiman sclerope. 220.28 L220=25 ue Spectacled caiman-.--_-_---------- 4
Crocodylus-acutus..=.2 5222 52282 American crocodile- ------------ 4
Crocodylus cataphractus---------- Narrow-nosed crocodile- - ------- 1
Crocodylus niloticus ------------- African crocodile =..2292 2222522. 2
Crocodylus porosus-_------------ Salt-water crocodile___---------- 1
Osteolaemus tetraspis_----------- Broad-nosed crocodile-_--- ------- 3
SQUAMATA
Saugia
Gekkonidae:
Tarentola cubana. -.------------ GeCkG Min as See nee nea 1
Thecadactylus rapicaudus - - - ~~ --- Cece lL ee ce see 4
Agamidae:
Physignathus lesueurt__---------- Lesueur’s water dragon-_--------- 2
Xenosauridae:
Xenosaurus laticaudatus - - - ------ Broad=tailed lizard... 5 = il
Gerrhosauridae:
Gerrhosaurus flavigularis- -------- Yellow-throated plated lizard-_- -- 3
Gerrhosaurus major. ------------ Greater African plated lizard__-_-_- 9
Zonosaurus ornatus_------------ Ornate liketds 2 2 22s sos ace 1

SECRETARY'S REPORT 125

Scientific name Common name Number
Iguanidae:
Anolis carolinensis._..--.-.----- American anolis, or false chame- 5
leon.
Anolis equestris._22ecese2-aasad Giant anolise) <2 s)uiesy-et seosc eu 5
Anolis noreaius- ==.) 2 =. .e%ese ole Lagartila verde.___._____--___- 2
ANOMS Shoo s-5=cce col adans sie Cisne Anolis oo 5 5 se ee 22 ate Sees 1
Bastliscus barbaurtes: Sclaneaoce Barbour’s basilisk. _______-_____ 1
Conolophus subcristatus_________- Galdépagos iguana______________- 2
Cyclura maceqyi-- ..---22de0 28! Cuban iguapacereushelss ences 3
Tquand 2g uend. 2 ase Ueto Common iguana_______________- 1
Phrynosoma blainvillei________ ~~ California horned lizard_-___-____- 6
Phrynosoma cornutum._--------- Horned lizard). Sess) enndeeel: 2
Sauromalus obesus__.--.----__-- Chuckwalla lizard _ _. 2.212 --ic2 4
Sceloporus undulatus. __________- Pine or fence lizard____________- 4
Zonuridae:
Zonurus giganteus___-.---------- African spiny lizard__.______-_-- 1
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum____--------- Mexican beaded lizard______-__- 3
Heloderma suspectum_-_---------- Gila monster. 222 = aie ceeeis’ 2
Varanidae:
Varorus niloticus: =<... = 29sofan African/monitor: = ==. --d--e.4 <i. 1
Varanius sp) 2222222 22 ceriee eaik African’ monitor. io. <esHs2e et sis 1
Lacertidae:
Eremias mucronata__.----------- Egyptian sand lizard________-_-__ 3
Wacertarocewalas = 226 5~ 522s Hye ‘izardisse oe oe ek c teh 3
Scincidae:
Chalcides ocellatus_._---._------ Skink. 2 22). esas ee shertal te Z
Chaleem Bp: stead waoceity setae sand: skink. jo 2s. aaah lole 2
Egernia cunninghami_-__--------- Cunningham’s skink________.__- 1
Egernia whitit = ed aqusli ies saute Wihite’s‘skink. of) Lewy. eles 13
Eumeces fasciatus___---_------_- Blue-tailed skink. . *WeAstew- iene 2
SERPENTES
Boidae:
PS OCMC OIULT Gis eee ee ee ee ee Green tree: b0as. 3-2 sa" 6 = = 2
PSORIENATUSE DONT a ee Colombian: boaters ue. 1
Constrictor imperator._--------_- Central American boa___________ 32
Bipreratves’ cevichriags. ~~. - 2.22.2 = Rainbowsboas 4 -- se a eee 5
BUCS MUntnuse = a2 oe DRACO AE Ae 4a eee ee 1
POT MOLT US 58 5) Indian rock python... =.=... =.» 1
EVNBIUTEGtUs se a Se ee ee Pall python sso ee 1
iPiihontsevae= 27 eee See African pythons <= ee Ve ee 2
Colubridae:
Acrochordus javanicus__--_-____- Elephant trunk snake___________ 1
Bonedon teneatum 22 = ft Ses Brown house snake_____________ 1
Berga dendrophtda____.. 222 Manprove snake... 2. oe Se 1
Colabertconsirictor. Bigeks snake y<eyr OE). ces 6
Diadophis punctatus_____._.__.._.._. Ring-necked snake_.____________ 2
Drymarchon corais couperi_-____- Tdi CO RNAKES Oo nce oe 2
Pinnherotisniciag2= ==" - = 52" i05" 3 7%: Pilotiaqnake: t= Si 10
Elaphe obsoleta confinis.________- Southern pilot snake___________- 1
Brysthebaicus< 2-52 St oo eae Dasss’sisnake== =<" oo See 3
Lampropeitis getulus boylit______. Boyle’s king snake______-_-_---- 1
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number
Colubridae—Continued
Lampropeltis getulus getulus - - -- -- Chain or king snake__.--_------ 2
Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki_-.. Holbrook’s king snake- ~~ -~------ 1
Lampropeltis getulus splendida__.. Sonoran king snake------------- 1
Lampropeltis rhombomaculata___-- Mole-snake <92c.22. Beene Se 3
Natrit 80. 228s oo coro DIST Waterenake..... .2..-22:08 Bae 9
Opheodrys vernalis._.:.--------- Smooth-sealed green snake___---- 1
Oxybelis acuminatus....--------- Pike-head snakeseco2cu2 sos 28 1
Phrynonaz sulphureus--.--------- Falsecobras. 2). . Ss8e2eOst 2o3Ee 2
Pituophis catenifer_.------------ Western bull snake__-___-------- 1
Pituophis melanoleucus - _ ~~ ------ Pine‘snake.: Loli seues Russe 5
Rhinocheilus lecontet._----------- LeConte’s:snakeseunss gece 2
Storeria dekayis= -RjS35_ ie 222 DeKay’s snake. = 28250. 2a 2
Thamnophis elegans_------------ Arizona garter snake___-_------- 2
Thamnophis sirtalis._..--------- Garterenake 20s. 2. Oe 1
Zamenis florulentus ------------- Rey ptian racer... 2/5eeus_ernes 3
Elapidae:
Dendroaspis viridis_.------------ Green mambar. sae Pie SSee es 1
Micrurus fulvius._.---<- --2-.--- Coral-enake ce tuceteee. pares 2
(NOG NGjeniee. ooo ek ee Rey ptianscobrans.-2 225-2 4- 25888 1
Naja‘hannahs.2<..2-2 22 eet King robraccsst 22 eee s eee 1
Naja tripudtans 2222 Bee Seo2 eee Indian’ cobras! 3222935... 83 see 3
Viperidae:
Vipera. russell ge. See Russell’s ‘viper... 95 oSSeeeaee 1
Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon mokeson . ----------- Copperhead snake--_-.--------- 2
Agkistrodon piscivorus__--------- Cottonmouth moccasin__-_------ 3
Crotalus-altroa2= oe eens Se Western diamondback rattlesnake_ 2
Crotalus.cerastess = See Sa Sidewinder rattlesnake__._._---- 2
Crotalusherridus.. 2.20.22 223 2022 Timber rattlesnake_- 2.2222. 222 7
Crotalus mitchelli_.--.---------- Desert: rattlesnakeo22285-L5283 2
Crotalus digrises...- 5-38. SS Diger rattlesnake... 5---.--=-—=— 1
Crotalus tortugensis__._.----.---- Tortuga rattlesnake__=....__..-- 1
Crotalus viridis viridis__--------- Pramie rattlesnakes) 3255-52-22 —— 1
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
Batrachemys nasuta___---------- South American side-necked 2
turtle.
Chelodina longicollis___---------- Australian long-necked turtle - - -~ 2
Chelys fimbriatae = 2 prt see Matamata turtle: = 2 2 |
TIN OR SPOR BD ee aire 4 Poo ae Cagado or South American snake- 1 |
necked turtle. |
Hydromedusa tectifera_---------- South American snake-necked 15 q
turtle. i
Platemys platycephala_-_--------- Hlat-hneaded turtlen == -— .25—=—= 1 }
Kinosternidae:
Kinosternon subrubrum__-------- Muditurtless.% tater ee A 5
Sternotherus odoratus__---------- Musk tril@ oss oe sos 5 }
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina... —.=-.-->.=- Snapping turtle... --..----4-0--- 8 }
Testudinidae:
Batagurbasha: 22262 nee Indian fresh-water turtle_------- 1 a

Chrysemys picta. .- 2 -—-222-=- Painted turtle<22.2--2---<222—— 8 a
SECRETARY’S REPORT

127

font
CONN NNNWONK RN KEK RHE KRNWNDYK OWeK a

mm ©

Scientific name Common name Number
Testudinidae—Continued
Clemons quitata. .. fen4 Bellin £2 potted Gurtle = thee a td
Clemmys inscuipias =. i2iLs2-+-.- Wood turtle. = 2. stevie onde.
Cyclemys amboinensis___..-_---- Kura kura box turtle_____.____-
Emydura kreffttts cunt esd scn': IR reitt)S Dt. a} ach h rc ret eich
Emydura macquariae___.__-_--_-- Murray turtle: —— ntsc eet Yee
Eemys oricularis._ = fos European pond turtle_____.____-
Gopherus polyphemus.._...-.---- Gopher turtle.> eosin hs
Graptemys barbourt___...._-_.=__ Barpour's turtle: <2. o225s5_ os
Graptemys geographica_.__.-_-_-- Mapiturtle: 2224 stati sees
GRIT YS COS oes = eS 8 Hinged-back turtle_._..._._._._
Malaclemys centrata_____._.-__-- Diamond-back turtle_......2.. =...
Pelomedusa galeata____.__.-___-- African water turtle..22.2<. 2.
Pelustosrsmundtus. 2 2222 ae ee Yellow-bellied water turtle_______
Pseudemys concinna_.___.------- Wooter: Voc 8 22 oo kes oa
Pseudemys elegans___...._.----- Mobile turtles: 3) 25: tee Be
Pseudemys ornata subsp__-_---_-- Central American turtle_________
Pseudemys rubriventris____.__.___- Red-bellied turtle_......_.....__-
Pseudemys troostii__..._..---_-- Cumberland turtle....2s2o0tel 3
Terrapene carolina. - -@iiany_ bit Box turtles. --2=-2 = Si Wee atten
Terranene major. 24 <..- 280 eo Florida: box: turtle. =. .<.. see id
Terrapene triunguis....-..2 2. Three-toed box turtle___________
Testudo ephippium____._-_------ Duncan- Island turtle. 208222 224
Pestudo: graecG-- - =< <=<2 <= FE Ae: Grecian-Gurtle...= <2 de> 2 00
Testudo hoodensis_______._-_-_-- Hood-Island-turtle 229 226 2m
Testudo tabulate 22. >--S228. ues South American turtle__________
Testude vicina-- ..24» = Ue ae See Albemarle Island turtle_____._-_
Trionychidae:
Amyda-feros CV Rnh. Maoists, Ait Soft-shelled turtle........_.-_--
Amyda triunguis..-.-<..-2--5.- West African soft-shelled turtle_-
AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
Triturus pyrrhogaster__....__---- Red Japanese salamander-___--_ ~~
UPACUNUS COTOSUS 2S = So a Giant. newts 2=222 25.2 0e See eee
Triturus viridescens____________- Common newt (of the United
States),
Amphiumidae:
ADM MEANS = es COnCOleel a wae ee eee
Cryptobranchidae:
Megalobatrachus japonicus__-____ Giant Japanese salamander------
SALIENTIA
Bufonidae:
Pen fo minayeue i Western green toad_____-_------
Ei) GO GMETICONUG 2 Common: tond see 42 hoa
TUG OUS One ee sare Oe a European toad... 3-222-.. 2-2...
TSU POMROLGMALO Se ne ee, Natterack toad. 03-25. 2222
Bufo marinus). Sk aaa Marine) t0a Gets... oso e eee
RUE PUYaCie ines < kM 2 28 Soe oh Rococo. toad® =. 2.2 ae ee

ETT Ag CSS Unik ecm ere gn dle ae European green toad___.------~-

Nw 6 & db & w&
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Scientific name Common name Number

Discoglossidae:

Bombina bombina-_-_-_------------ Red-bellied toad__---_-..2..-L-- 4

Bombina voriegata_-__---------- Yellow-bellied toad.-___..-_-_-- 5
Leptodactylidae:

Ceratophrys calcarata____-___-__- Colombian horned frog______-_-- 2

Ceratophrys ornata___.-.-------- Argentine horned frog________-_-- 3
Hylidae:

Hyla septentrionalis.____.------- South American tree frog__-_-_-_-- I
Pipidae:

A enopus-millert..--===29. 201 Se Miiller’s clawed frog______-_-_-- 1
Ranidae:

Rana adepersac) 20s A280 -H Oma! ‘African..bull frogS!ocb_EUrspa 12

Rana catesbiana____-_---_-_-_-- Bull frogo=. = = =< Soe Oavemos 3

Rana clamitans-= 20.2222 2282 Green: frog..2.2=- = S12 es_ sores 2

Rana esculenta__-._-_---------- Kuropean edible frog________-_~- 1

Rane pipens2=.~---=-t21s! 2S Leopard. frog... - 2{ 5029 Ayres 2

FISHES
Anabas testudineus..._ 2!) Sev odemst er Climbing perch? 22S ieced ae eeeen 4
Anoptichihys jordant_..__-~_ -e/42=4 x Blind characin= 2 «=t'-2a5 ssceass 8
Barbus everett... alts42 seed ahise Clown barb. = «toon sere 2
Brachydanio albolineatus___..-_------ Pearl danio. =~ ieee. ees 4s 1
Carassius auratus. _ofs<3-beekd-pasar Goldfish... "2 soit at dee ete 5
Danto rerio. < 22. 5 eet abe Zebra fish’. 2... - \. nance, BBaste 8
Hemigrammus ocellifer__.-_-_-_------- Head-and-tail-light fish_-_-______- 2
Hyphessobrycon innesi______-__-.-_---- Neon tetra... - Sob hahns oh 10
Kryptopterus bicirrhos______.-_-_---- (Glass catfish ss. cgi ah as tee ahh: 10
Lebeakes verre larue soa ket 2s GUD DY... 5 ee oe 100
Lepidosiren paradoxa________._-_-_-- South American lungfish - - - _-_ ~~ 2
Mesonaulajimstgnis= $4.8. wanht A seeGh nono oe eee eed pee 1
PERICLES EDO Ges hp Fa gs AS) 5 ae ne RE ee a 2
Protopterus annectans__________--- MPATHICAN WIN PSN! 2225 so ee 2
Rasbora heteromorpha________-_------ AR DOTAM as Se Ag Fach ees 10
Tantchihys albonubes... 2 2 3k White Cloud Mountain fish_____- 2
Trichogaster trichopterus_-__--_------ Blue gourgmi: 2:22). = saat 2
ARACHNIDS
Latrodectus mactans_ =. - 2222-22422 Black-widow spider___-____---_-- 2
INSECTS
Blabermep: 2p... 5 oe Giant cockroach-_--___---_--- so Ae
MOLLUSKS
Achatine uenwind.- =. 2 = ete ee Giant-land sna Se ee 4
STATUS OF THE COLLECTION
ie ile

Mammals: 2222225202220 189 GvOnl wArachnids- = 22 2224----o5< 1 2
Birds ses aa ons Se 322 PAO || bisects Swat = are oe 1 100
Reptiles sc a eeisoc ses oe 137 BiSh)| Miollusks=22- 222 Se so oe 1 4
Amphibians--_..._..._--.- 23 27
pee oes ae Eee 17 171 ital 22s aa 691 2, 675

SECRETARY'S REPORT 129

Summary
Animals ont liane edly eis al Ob 0 eee ee es ee ee a ee ee ee 2, 821
Accessions during, the:year 9) 22-2 he 2 Be eee ace ee 1, 575
Total number of animals in collection during the year____________ 4, 396
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
‘omy depositpyete sea s56 a8 W 2 bee Sia oe ee 8 ee Be 2 eS UPyPal
In¥collection: on. Junets0 $1952.20. = So be a ee 2, 675

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. A. Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1952:

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory is divided between
two units: the division of astrophysical research, for the study of
solar radiation problems, and the division of radiation and organisms,
established “to undertake those investigations dealing with radiation
bearing directly or indirectly upon biological problems.” In addi-
tion to their regular programs, both divisions are conducting coopera-
tive projects with other Government agencies. The division of astro-
physical research at its Chilean field station maintains certain seismo-
graphic records for the Coast and Geodetic Survey and also records
solar radiation received upon exposed fabrics, under contract with the
Office of the Quartermaster General. The division of radiation and
organisms has in progress special experiments for the Atomic Energy
Commission and for the Biological Department, Chemical Corps,
Camp Detrick, Md.

During the year the metal and glasswork shops serving both divi-
sions of the Observatory were materially improved by the installation
of modern lighting equipment, re-arrangement of the machines, re-
painting, reflooring, and the addition of specially built cabinets for
storing raw materials. The instrument makers now operate with
less eye strain, more convenience, and greater safety.

In August 1951 the Director of the Observatory attended meetings
of the Sub-Commission on Actinometry of the World Meteorological
Organization held at Brussels, Belgium. In the resolutions adopted
by the Sub-Commission, the Smithsonian silver-disk pyrheliometer,
designed and developed by Dr. C. G. Abbot, is recommended as an
instrument for the measurement of direct solar radiation.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The question of establishing a field station in the Clark Mountain
(Calif.) region, mentioned in previous reports, is still undetermined.

W. H. Hoover, chief of the division, spent July and part of August
at the Table Mountain (Calif.) field station, directing the work pro-
gram and testing several new devices.

130

SECRETARY'S REPORT 131

The ninth revised edition of the Smithsonian Physical Tables is in
press. At the end of the fiscal year, Dr. Forsythe, who prepared the
manuscript, had corrected approximately one-third of the galley
proof.

Work in Washington.—The checking and appraisal of observations
of sun and sky radiation made at two high-altitude field stations,
Montezuma (Chile) and Table Mountain (Calif.), have continued
under the direction of Mr. Hoover. Some progress has been made in
the preparation of material for a new volume of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory.

Incident to the review of results during the past decade, an exam-
ination was made to determine what, if any, relationship is apparent
between the solar-constant record and the number of sunspots. During
the last maximum of sunspots in 1947, the total number of spots was
greater than during any maximum since 1778. In 1947 the number
averaged 151.6. In 1778 it was 154.4. The next greatest maximum,
139.1, occurred in 1870. A curve is here presented showing monthly
mean values of the solar-constant compared with monthly means of
sunspot numbers for the same days. It includes all solar constants
graded fair or better during the 11-year period 1940 to 1951. A fairly
regular increase in solar constants is apparent with increasing sunspot
numbers.

(The number near each point
indicates the number of monthly
means included in each group.)

O 7 200
Sunspot numbers

Ficure 1.—Monthly mean values of the solar constant compared with monthly
means of sunspot numbers for the same days.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Orders for silver-disk pyrheliometers, built in our shops and cali-
brated against the Smithsonian standard pyrheliometer, have con-
tinued to come in. During the year five instruments were prepared
and sold at cost, as follows:

S. I. No. 84 to Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Paris, France.
S. I. No. 87 to Helsinki, Finland.

S. I. No. 88 to Institute for Scientific Research, Central Africa.

S. I. No. 89 to National Observatory of Athens, Greece.

S. I. No. 90 to University of Rhode Island.

As of now, a total of 89 silver-disk pyrheliometers have been fur-
nished by the Astrophysical Observatory to interested observatories
and institutions in many lands, thus making available throughout the
world the Smithsonian standard scale of radiation. In addition, five
Angstrom compensation pyrheliometers, modified in certain details as
experience has dictated, were built and calibrated. ‘Three were sold
at cost to the Belgium Consulate General for use in the Belgian Congo.

During the year certain electronic devices were procured as funds
permitted. These include a photopen recorder, Golay detector, and
electron multiplier photometer. Tests are in progress to determine
their most advantageous application to our special needs.

For five years, 1926 to 1931, the Astrophysical Observatory occupied
Mount Brukkaros in Southwest Africa as a field observing station.
At the request of the Meteorological Service of South Africa, the
Smithsonian observations of total solar radiation during this period
on Mount Brukkaros were summarized and made available for publica-
tion in a new compendium of South African solar-radiation data.

The Smithsonian standard water-flow pyrheliometer, against which
substandard comparisons were last made on Mount Wilson (Calif.) in
1947 by Dr. Abbot and Mr. Aldrich, has been overhauled and tested
by Mr. Hoover. It is planned to mount this standard instrument
at Table Mountain in the near future for a new series of comparisons
against our silver-disk substandards.

An important study by Mr. Hoover is in progress, designed to clear
up certain elusive characteristics of the silver-disk pyrheliometer,
such as the cause of the temperature correction which it is found
necessary to apply.

A special pyranometer was prepared for future testing at Table
Mountain. Its vestibule permits the rapid insertion of four suc-
cessive filters, transmitting different wavelength bands. Such a device
should indicate variations in haze more certainly than does the
pyranometer without filters as ordinarily used. It is hoped that this
filter pyranometer may prove an important aid in determining atmos-
pheric transmission values required in short-method solar-constant
observations.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

At the request of the United States Weather Bureau, another special
pyranometer was prepared and calibrated for use in standardizing the
Weather Bureau’s network of Eppley pyrheliometers. A leveling
device and automatic shutter control were added to the pyranometer.

Last year’s report mentioned a cooperative arrangement with the
Meteorological Division, Chemical Corps, Camp Detrick, Md., to de-
velop a new improved type of melikeron, for the measurement of out-
going radiation from the earth to space. One of these instruments
has been completed and tested at Camp Detrick. A paper describing
this development was read by Dr. S. C. Stern of Camp Detrick at the
July meeting of the American Meteorological Society.

Dr. C. G. Abbot, research associate, has continued his studies of
relationships between solar and terrestrial phenomena. His results
are described in several papers in volume 117 of the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections.

Work in the field.—In May 1952 a new series of tape exposures was
started at the Montezuma station, under contract with the Office of
the Quartermaster General. These exposures are a continuation of
the Quartermaster studies to determine the causes of the deterioration
of tentage materials. The tapes include samples of various textiles,
and the exposures and radiation measurements are similar to those
described in former years.

At the Table Mountain station, the interesting study discussed in
last year’s report, to determine the quantity of ozone in the upper
atmosphere from our daily bolographic records, continued under the
direction of Dr. Oliver R. Wulf, of the U. S. Weather Bureau and
the California Institute of Technology. Dr. Wulf has improved the
means for obtaining absolute values of the ozone from long-method
days. He then uses the long-method results to calibrate the relative
values obtained from the short-method observations at air mass 2.5.

In July 1951 Mr. Hoover tested the double spectroscope set up in
the new tunnel at Table Mountain. He reports that, unfortunately,
the device is not sufficiently rigid to give satisfactory results. Con-
siderable alteration will be necessary. Mr. Hoover also prepared and
installed a very satisfactory device for recording the steadiness of
the sky during each bolograph. It consists of a sensitive thermo-
element mounted in the coelostat beam. The resulting galvanometer
deflection, recorded upon a rotating drum, is an index of the steadiness
of the sun and sky radiation during each bolograph. This record
has proved helpful in appraising pyrheliometer and pyranometer
readings at Table Mountain, where sudden changes in water vapor
content and quality of haze occur fairly frequently.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by R. B. WitrHROWw)

In last year’s report the developmental responses of seedlings to
light were discussed as to the possible biochemical reactions involved
in the absorption of the light energy and the subsequent regulatory
mechanism responsible for the development of seedlings into normal
plants. The indications were that these growth or photomaturation
responses were not directly associated with either chlorophyll syn-
thesis or photosynthesis, but no strong photomaturation response had
been obtained without detectable traces of chlorophyll. The problem
remained, therefore, to secure leaf expansion and stem development
approaching the normal occurring in sunlight without chlorophyll
synthesis or photosynthesis.

During the past year bean seedlings were grown under a series of
seven irradiances respectively of blue (436 mp), red (630-700 mz), and
far red (710-1100 mp and 725-1100 mp) radiant energy. The extent
of the photomaturation response was measured by taking weights of
the leaves, and weights and lengths of the hypocotyl] and epicotyl por-
tions of the plants. Analysis for protochlorophyll, chlorophyll,
carotenoid, and anthocyanin pigments were made in order to obtain
a picture of the photosynthesis and photodecomposition of these pig-
ments.

The maximum photomaturation response occurred in the red where
the maximum chlorophyll synthesis and anthocyanin synthesis also
occurred. With blue of the same energy as the red, the leaf expansion
and decrease in hypocotyl length were much reduced. Although the
amount of chlorophyll was less in the blue than the red, it was not
decreased in proportion to the decrease in photomaturation response.
In the far red, very marked photomaturation occurred at the lower
irradiances employed without any measurable synthesis of chloro-
phyll, which first appeared with this region at 10? microwatts per
square centimeter. Since all measurements were made with 10-cm.
cells in a Beckman spectrophotometer, it is safe to assume that prac-
tically no chlorophyll was synthesized under these low-irradiance far-
red conditions. Therefore, the evidence is conclusive that the photo-
maturation responses are not directly concerned either with chloro-
phyll synthesis or photosynthesis, but are due to a regulatory mech-
anism associated with a pigment having absorption in the far red.
Absorption of this pigment also occurs in the blue, with the maximum
in the red.

In addition, there is clear evidence that the synthesis of anthocyanin
is also a photochemical response, separate and distinct from photo-
synthesis. Anthocyanin was always present in plants grown in com-
plete darkness, but very marked increases occurred with the addition

SECRETARY'S REPORT 135

of all wavebands employed. Anthocyanin synthesis was maximal in
the red, which was from ten to one hundred times as efficient as the
blue. At 10° microwatts per square centimeter, the anthocyanin
content of plants grown with the red was doubled as compared to
that of those in complete darkness. In the far red, where no photo-
synthesis could have occurred because of the absence of chlorophyll,
the anthocyanin increased eighteen times with the 710-1100 my region
and ten with the 725-1100 my region at the 10-microwatt energy level.
This appears to be strong evidence that, contrary to previous theories,
the light effect on anthocyanin synthesis is only indirectly related
to photosynthesis and that anthocyanin synthesis can be the conse-
quence of an independent photochemical reaction.

A second phase of the research has been concerned with the effect
of growth regulators on the uptake of various nutrient salts by bean
seedlings. It was reported previously that the nitrates, chlorides,
and sulfates of potassium, calcium, and magnesium were absorbed
less rapidly by plants treated with 10 y of ammonium 2,4-D on the
leaf or bud than by untreated plants. The reduction in uptake occurs
within 24 to 48 hours after the application of the growth regulator as
measured by a continuously recording electronic conductance bridge.
These reduced uptake patterns appear to be chiefly related to decreased
growth of the plants treated with the growth regulator. Unlike the
other nutrient salts tested potassium acid phosphate, while eventually
absorbed less rapidly when 2,4—D is used, is taken up by the treated
plants at an increased rate for a short period beginning about 6 hours
from the time of application of the regulator. Other work has indi-
cated that about 6 hours is approximately the length of time required
for the ammonium 2,4-D to reach the roots of bean seedlings. This
increased rate of absorption has not as yet been correlated with any
change in metabolism of the seedling.

Respectfully submitted.

L. B. Aupricn, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

236639—53——10
APPENDIX 9

Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1952:

GENERAL STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS

The phase of Museum operations that caused the greatest con-
cern and required most concentration of effort throughout the year
was the care of the storage collection at Park Ridge, Ill. It will be
recalled from previous annual reports that the former Douglas DC-+4
Transport Airplane Plant there was the collecting depot for signifi-
cant and historic aircraft selected for preservation by General of
the Air Force H. H. Arnold. When these were turned over to the
National Air Museum in 1949, it was believed most economical to
leave them there until an adequate building could be provided in the
Washington, D. C., area for the entire collection. An efficient or-
ganization was brought together by the Museum to preserve and guard
these stored aircraft. Meanwhile that locality became designated
as O’Hare Field, Chicago International Airport, and several United
States Air Force units were established there, the Museum paying
rent to the Air Force for the space it occupied in Building T-6. To
that storage facility the Museum brought other aircraft and mate-
rials that could not be exhibited or cared for on the Washington prem-
ises in the Smithsonian buildings. It was believed that this facility
would continue to operate until Congress gave further consideration
to the report presented to that body by the Smithsonian, in re-
sponse to the section in the Act of Establishment which authorized
the planning of an adequate building.

With the advent of war in Korea it became evident that Govern-
ment resources must be concentrated upon the production of combat
aircraft instead of applied to the care of historic ones, and early in
the fiscal year the international situation reacted directly upon the
Air Museum when, on July 12, 1951, an eviction notice was served
by the Air Force requiring removal of all Museum stored material
from the premises in Building T-6. Because of the national emer-
gency the needs of the Air Force required expanded manufacturing
facilities for aircraft and it had been decided to reactivate Building

136

SECRETARY’S REPORT te?

T-6 for aircraft production. While efforts were being made by the
Museum to obtain use of premises in the northwest corner of the air-
port, it was learned that temporary housing for part of the storage
collection could be provided in Building T-7, an adjacent hangarlike
structure where Bays 5 and 6 totaling 60,000 square feet could be rented
to the Museum. With winter approaching, this move to 'T-7 was
better than undertaking the project of rehabilitating the quarters in
the northwest corner of the airport, but because the space in T-7
would provide less than half of the area required it was necessary to
place the remainder outdoors between Buildings T-6 and i-7. The
problem of protection was partly met by choosing those specimens that
could best withstand exposure, covering them with protective coat-
ings and surrounding the area with a fence, so arranged that the
largest boxes provided windbreaks for the aircraft. By moving to
T-7 the eviction from T-6 was complied with 5 weeks ahead of the
deadline of January 15.

Hardly had this move been started, however, before the Museum
was served with notice to vacate Building T-7 by February i, in
order that those bays could be used for a fighter-interceptor squadron
that is part of the air defense of the city of Chicago. This could
not be complied with because no place could be located or prepared
to receive the Museum material. Meanwhile the disassembling and
packing project was expedited and more material was moved outdoors.

Modifications in Air Force decisions involving the use of these
premises relaxed the pressure on the Museum to move and permitted
planning on a more efficient, longer-range basis. Because the ultimate
destination of this stored material is Washington, D. C., or vicinity,
The National Capital Planning Commission was asked to assist.
Following previous application for a site for a permanent National
Air Museum Building, the Commission had recommended using a
part of the Suitland building area. The Commission agreed to assign
a 21-acre plot of this area for a storage site.

Using funds that had been saved for the most part by reduced
rental charges at Park Ridge, the area at Suitland was surveyed, a
roadway and building areas were cleared, and six prefabricated But-
ler buildings were purchased. Remaining funds for 1952 sufliced
for the erection of only two buildings. With granting of the 1953
appropriation the other four buildings can be erected, and a portion of
the material at Park Ridge can be shipped. The efforts made at Park
Ridge by the Museum manager and assistants to preserve the material
there in spite of these conditions are detailed in another section of this
report.

The enforced concentration upon storage problems has necessarily
‘reduced the amount of time that could be applied by the Washington
office to local requirements. Here the exhibition program continues
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

to suffer from lack of space, and activities are limited by the relatively
small force of personnel, yet every effort has been made to keep a
high standard for the displays and informational services that are
the two principal ways in which the Museum serves the public. ‘These
and other activities of the bureau are covered further in this report.

There have been changes and reductions in personnel, the most im-
portant being the retirement on April 30, 1952, of Carl W. Mitman
after 41 years with the Smithsonian, closing his career in the position
of Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museum. His
thorough knowledge of museum techniques, educational methods, and
Government procedures, combined with excellent administrative
ability, gave to the National Air Museum a firm foundation during
the critical days of its establishment. Paul E. Garber was made head
curator on April 10.

Following the retirement of Mr. Mitman, the bureau gave up its
administrative quarters in the northeast corner of the Arts and In-
dustries Building, concentrating the offices in the group of rooms
erected several years ago in the opposite corner of the same building.

The accessions for the year have brought additions to many parts of
the collection, including full-sized aircraft, engines, instruments,
experimental and scale-model aircraft, parachutes, and trophies.
They also are evidence of a growing recognition of the function of
the National Air Museum by other Government departments, the air-
craft industry, and individuals who with confidence can entrust their
significant treasures to the bureau’s custody, enabling the Museum
to not only keep abreast of recent developments but also to fill gaps
in the background story.

ADVISORY BOARD

No meetings of the Board were held during the year; there was
one change in personnel, Maj. Gen. Donald L. Putt, U.S. A. F., being
replaced by Maj. Gen. Laurence C. Craigie, U. S. A. F. He and
members of his staff have been particularly helpful in enabling adjust-
ments to be made between the limited resources of the Museum and
the eviction schedule of the Air Force at Park Ridge; and also in
effecting the preparation of the site for the new storage area at Suit-
land, Md. The naval member of the Board, Rear Adm. Thomas S.
Combs, and his civilian assistant for Museum liaison, Alfred V.
Verville, have cooperated closely with the Museum officials in pre-
paring and transferring selected naval specimens to the Museum and in
preserving other significant naval air items on naval premises until
the Museum can take custody of them. The civilian presidential
appointees to the Board, Grover Loening and William B. Stout, have
been of frequent assistance in recommending that certain desirable
objects be procured and in offering other helpful suggestions.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 139
STEPHENSON BEQUEST

Separate mention was made in the previous report of the bequest
of George H. Stephenson of Philadelphia, Pa., to provide for the Air
Museum an appropriate statue of Maj. Gen. William Mitchell.
During this fiscal year Smithsonian officials with the cooperation of
the Fine Arts Commission gave consideration to the designs and
capabilities of a number of sculptors.

SPECIAL EVENTS AND DISPLAYS

For the annual meeting of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, held
on January 18, the Air Museum prepared a display based on the recent
development and use of helicopters, featuring as the central unit the
prototype example of the “Hoppi-Copter,” designed by Edward Pen-
tecost as a manually supported helicopter for individual transporta-
tion. With this was shown a scale model of the Sikorsky KR-4,
which accomplished the first cross-country helicopter trip in America,
1942. The original XR-4 is in the Museum collection but is stored
for lack of exhibition space. Grouped with the scale model were a
number of photographs illustrating the other full-sized helicopters in
the collection. Of this group of eight, space is available for exhibit-
ing only two.

The twenty-fifth anniversary of Col. Charles Lindbergh’s trans-
Atlantic flight in the Spirit of St. Louis increased the normally high
interest in thisairplane. Assistance was given to a number of authors,
historians, and photographers who were recording the anniversary
and to managers of radio and television programs who included ref-
erences to this occasion in their broadcasts. Colonel Lindbergh him-
self visited the Museum during this period and sat once again at the
controls of his plane as he made some notes on the flights in 1927; his
commendation upon the excellent condition of this airplane, which has
been in the Museum continuously since 1928, was most gratifying.

In connection with construction of the shop in the Aircraft Build-
ing last year a broad space was provided on its outer wall, adaptable
for pictorial displays. With the cooperation of Consolidated Vultee
Aircraft a series of photographic enlargements was selected and
mounted there, illustrating the progress of design throughout the
history of that company, ranging from the PT-1 of 1925 to the huge
B-36 of today. The Museum intends to rotate this type of exhibit and
will be pleased to make this same space available to other aircraft
companies for similar displays.

SURVEY

The search for desirable specimens to add to the collection, and con-
tacts to determine their characteristics and significance were carried
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

out this year largely by correspondence, most of the Museum’s funds
for travel being utilized for trips between Washington and the stor-
age facility at Park Ridge, for administrative purposes. The results
of survey are reflected in the list of accessions which is in the last
pages of this Report. The following trips were primarily for survey
purposes:

July 17, by the associate curator, Robert Strobell, to Lancaster, Pa., to inspect
at the factory of Valley Frocks, Inc., a group of early parachutes and other
equipment dating back to World War I.

August 14, by the curator, to Detroit, Mich., and vicinity, to check progress
on scale models of aircraft under construction and inspect aeronautical material
assembled for the Air Show display.

March 20, by the associate curator, to Dayton, Ohio, to confer regarding details
of drawings of the Wright Brothers’ Kitty Hawk aeroplane, and to discuss cur-
rent projects at the Air Force Technical Museum.

March 24, by the curator, to Philadelphia, Pa., and vicinity, to examine a group
of aircraft engines offered to the Air Museum by the Navy, to inspect a Fairchild
FC-2 photographic airplane offered by Virgil Kauffman and to discuss develop-
ments in air photography with officials and technicians of the Aero Service
Corporation.

IMPROVEMENTS IN SPECIMENS AND EXHIBITS

One of the outstanding specimens received during the year is the
original experimental radio-controlled model which, through free-
flight test, provided vital data for the design, construction, and op-
eration of the Consolidated XP5Y-1 flying boat. Unfortunately this
model, 1:10 size, had been badly damaged in transit. Its repair con-
stituted a problem that required a knowledge of the original proce-
dures as well as the skill of expert modelmakers. This combination
of talents was embodied in the designer who was responsible for de-
veloping this progressive method of aircraft testing, Ernest Stout,
and the exhibits workers of the Museum, Winthrop Shaw and assist-
ant Peter Bisio. Working together they have restored the model to
its original appearance. Another model restored in the shop is an
original small glider of E. C. Huffaker, who worked as assistant to
Professor Langley and made a brief visit to the camp of the Wright
Brothers at Kitty Hawk in 1901. In the wall cases surrounding the
outer wall of the new shop in the Aircraft Building, displays of na-
tural flight, early concepts of human flight, lighter-than-air craft, and
parachutes are being placed. Because these are elementary phases
of aeronautics and the cases are near the entrance to the building they
constitute an interesting introduction to the exhibits. Other exhibi-
tion cases that have been improved during the year include the one in
which an early airfield is shown with aircraft of the period 1908-16,
the case containing famous trophies that have inspired progress in
aircraft design and performance, the memorial case to Amelia Ear-
hart, and the three large cases in which progressive types of airplanes

SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

used by the Navy, Air Force, and Air Mail are grouped in chronologi-
cal sequence. Several additional models, listed in the lot of acces-
sions at the end of this report, have expanded these groups.

Usual cleaning and preservation treatments were given to the Lilien-
thal glider, the Kitty Hawk, Spirit of St. Louis, Fokker D-7, Grum-
man F3F Gulfhawk-2, and Republic F-84 Thunderjet. Manne-
quins with clothing resembling that of Otto Lilienthal and Orville
Wright were prepared with the cooperation of the L. A. Darling
Co., and placed in the glider and Kitty Hawk, making their methods
of control much more understandable to the public. The progres-
sive line-up of power units along “Engine Row” in the Aircraft
Building continued to be improved by rearrangements, additions, and
selective substitutions. Two important specimens were put on dis-
play; namely, original rockets developed by Robert Goddard
(1882-1945) who, in some of his earlier experiments was assisted by
grants from the Smithsonian and later by the Daniel and Florence
Guggenheim Foundation. These rockets, showing types of 1934-35
and 1939-41, were conditioned and labeled with the helpful assistance
of Mrs. Goddard; additions to this group will soon be added. The
display of the Hispano Suiza engine of World War I has been im-
proved by placing with it two large photographs received from S. E.
M. Hispano Suiza, Colombes (Seine), France, illustrating the orig-
inal Birkigt design of 1916, and the engine used by the renowned
French ace George Guynemer.

Each of the accessions received during the year that could be ex-
hibited provided an improvement in the displays; it is regretted that
lack of space prevents showing all of them. The Navy Department
was responsible for adding 10 engines to the collection, several of them
from the earliest years of human flight; but the outstanding addition
was received from the Curtiss-Wright Corporation, with grateful ac-
knowledgment to George Page, prominent aircraft designer, who
has helped to protect this wonderful relic throughout the years until
it could be placed in permanent care. This famous engine is the
prototype for those made by Glenn Curtiss for the early airships of
Thomas Baldwin and the pioneer airplanes then being developed by
the Aerial Experiment Association headed by Alexander Graham
Bell. Curtiss decided to test this engine in a motorcycle, and at Day-
tona Beach, Fla., January 24, 1907, established a world record for
human speed that lasted for many years—137 miles per hour. As
a motorcycle, this specimen is unique, but as a test bed for an airplane
engine it is one of the most renowned in aeronautical history. The
collection of trophies was greatly improved this year by the receipt
of one of the most famous, the Collier Trophy, which since 1911 has
inspired progress. Of the 35 awards of the Collier Trophy to date,
25 of them are now represented among the Air Museum’s collections,
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The Collier Trophy, together with the Brewer Trophy and the Klemin
Plaque, will be withdrawn briefly each year for succeeding presenta-
tions and then returned to the Museum for continued public view;
but the Wright Brothers’ Memorial Trophy is the original replica
example and will remain permanently in the Museum. Two examples
of impressive contrast are provided by new accessions; these are the
“Gibson Girl” radio, used for emergency rescue in World War II, com-
pared to the Lear automatic pilot and radio equipment used by Capt.
C. F. Blair, Jr., in his polar flight from Norway to Alaska in 1950;
and the reproduction of the original Wright Brothers’ wind tunnel,
1902, compared with a modern precision steel wind-tunnel model of
the Grumman F7F 7igercat. Other accessions supplement existing
exhibits. These are the model of the Cloudster received from Douglas
Aircraft as an auxiliary specimen to their World Cruiser Chicago; and
the droppable landing gear used in the take-offs for Wiley Post’s
substratosphere flights. Both the Chicago and Post’s Winnie Mae
have been in the collection for many years. Also in this category
are the original telemetering and film instruments used in the super-
sonic flights of the Air Force’s Bell X-1, which, now that they have
been released by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics,
can be placed with the plane in the Aircraft Building. Among
the year’s accessions, perhaps the most prophetic specimen is the
Delta wing model, one of the basic concepts of this design. Further
mention of each new specimen is given in the last part of this report.

STORAGE

Some of the difficulties encountered in finding quarters for housing
the Air Museum’s storage collection have been described. Among the
assembled aircraft five were maintained flyable and of those, two—
the B-29 Enola Gay and the B-17-D Swoose—were flown to other
storage areas. The Beechcraft Bonanza Waikiki Beech was, at the
request of the donors, Beech Aircraft, returned to them. The Douglas
XB-42 Mixmaster was disassembled and moved away by truck to an
Air Force storage area. Even after most of the boxed material had
been moved into Building T-7, another partial move had to be made
within the building when the roof developed serious leaks, and speci-
mens had to be kept away from the dripping and puddling water.
Following a careful scrutiny by the Advisory Board and officials of
the Air Force and Air Museum of the aircraft that had been gathered
at Park Ridge, 16 were scheduled during the fiscal year for separation
from the collection. The handling of these planes as they left for
other Air Force Bases or educational institutions and elsewhere was
a large task. Disassembly of nine full-scale aircraft preparatory to
boxing presented unique problems because many of these were obsolete

SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

or of foreign make with little or no printed data available to govern
procedure. Twenty-five aircraft were boxed during the year, each
one presenting its own problems of handling, placing, bracing, and
enclosing; 30 boxes were required for the total, some planes needing
extra containers for wings and components. Many of the boxes in
which aircraft had originally been received required repair during the
year, and all those that were placed outdoors had to be roofed with
waterproof covering and sprayed with heavy Abesto liquid. This
exterior protection supplemented the careful coating of the aircraft
and engines inside with Parelketone, Cosmolene, and other applica-
tions, each best suited to the surface being protected. Nine engines
were boxed during the year, but at the close of June all 151 engines
were due for another inspection, preservative coating, and dehydra-
tion treatment. In many instances the handling, disassembly, and
preservation of specimens required special study and care by the staff
to determine best procedures.

Because of the precarious status of the storage housing, few items
of new material were brought to Park Ridge. Enforced concentra-
tion on other aspects of the work left no opportunity for inventory-
ing, but guarding was maintained on a 24-hour schedule, even through
severe winter nights. During one particularly bad blizzard all hands
had to drop other assignments and make a powered snow shovel to clear
paths to the outdoor boxes and aircraft. With it all some time was
found to assist research workers using the collection for study purposes
and to prepare some educational displays requested by the Air Force
for recruiting purposes.

ASSISTANCE TO OTHER AGENCIES

The tangible evidence of aeronautical progress and history em-
bodied in the collection, the extensive files maintained as auxiliary data
for the material on display and in storage, and the expert knowledge
of the staff are frequently called upon to be of service to government
and industry and to students, engineers, authors, historians, and
others. This is one of the most interesting phases of the work and
pays a direct return to the nation for the maintenance of the collection.

It is particularly gratifying when the possibility of accident can
be forestalled. The Bell Supersonic airplane X-—1 became a source
for such service during the year. The National Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics, the Navy, and Air Force are continuing to use similar
aircraft for high-speed and extreme-altitude research. In July the
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics was faced with the
problem of determining the safety factor and life expectancy of the
high-pressure nitrogen spheres in supersonic aircraft that were flying
-at Edwards Air Force Base on regular test hops. When NACA
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

found that the only spheres available at that base for tests were in
their operational airplanes they turned to the National Air Museum
for assistance rather than ground their airplanes and interrupt their
essential research. The Museum agreed to lend the spheres from
the X-1. The test consisted of pressurizing the spheres to their maxi-
mum of 1,500 p. s. i. and then reducing the pressure to zero, thus com-
pleting one cycle. The spheres indicated failure at approximately
1,800 cycles. It was found that NACA’s airplane was very close to
the safety factor established as a result of these tests; therefore, their
airplane was grounded for overhaul. At the close of the year ar-
rangements had been made to reinstall the spheres in the Museum’s
Bell X-1.

The Department of Justice, in connection with patent claims, has
been investigating basic types of attachments used in parachute gear
and found interesting examples among the early parachutes in the
collection. This Department was also assisted in looking up original
types of engine mounts and shieldings. The technical-data office of
the Bureau of Aeronautics was assisted in compiling records of
trophies and awards, in which naval personnel were represented.
The historical office of the Air Force was given assistance in setting
up forms and methods for recording historic specimens, based on pro-
cedures proven through the years in Museum practice. The Signal
Corps was helped in tracing types of kites used to support radio
antennae, and the Coast Guard consulted the Museum specimens and
records to trace techniques used in air-borne human pick-up gear.

Educational institutions that benefited from Air Museum assistance
included local schools that were advised regarding their aeronautical
curriculum. The University of Pittsburgh was helped in tracing
details of the aerodynamic testing devices constructed and used by
Prof. S. P. Langley, third Secretary of the Smithsonian, when he was
at the Allegheny Observatory in 1886 before coming to this Institu-
tion. The Jam Handy organization of Detroit, engaged in prepara-
tion of training films and texts for the Navy and other users, turned
to the Air Museum for help in compiling a history of helicopter de-
velopment. The Musée de l’Air, Paris, France, through its distin-
guished conservateur, Charles Dollfus, requested aid in improving its
files on the NC, U. S. Navy flying boat, 1919, first to fly across the
Atlantic; and the RB-1, racing plane of advanced design entered in
the Gordon Bennett Race of 1920. It was a particular pleasure to
assist Mr. Dollfus, in view of his many kindnesses to the National
Air Museum.

Assistance to industry has been in connection with filling in lost
records of past accomplishments in a variety of instances. The con-
tacts that are most gratifying are those in which the Museum recog-
nizes the significance of some treasured object preserved from the

SECRETARY'S REPORT 145

days of the company’s pioneer origin, and it is agreed to place it in
the Museum where it can take its deserved place in the collection.

Over 700 correspondence requests for information have been an-
swered during the year and 256 photographs distributed.

The committees upon which the head curator served during the
year include the Brewer Trophy Committee for the National Aero-
nautic Association which annually chooses an outstanding person
who has contributed to youth education in aeronautics; the National
Science Fair board of judges, which selects deserving students to
receive higher education in science; and the Kill Devil Hills Memorial
Association Committee, which is planning to erect at Kitty Hawk,
N. C.,a museum to commemorate those accomplishments of the Wright
Brothers that were performed at that location.

The head curator gave several lectures during the year on various
phases of aeronautics, including kites, the air mail, development of
airports, and different aspects of the history of aeronautics; and the
associate curator, Robert Strobell, has conducted tours of the collec-
tion for different groups, notably the international exchange group
of flight cadets from 16 nations who were guests of the Civil Air
Patrol.

IMPROVEMENTS IN REFERENCE MATERIAL

Great improvement in the reference material this year was accom-
plished by the associate curator and two clerical assistants. This
material includes the Air Museum’s library of books and periodicals,
the original correspondence and source records for specimens, exten-
sive data on all phases of aeronautics in the form of scaled dimensioned
drawings, illustrations, texts, catalogs, clippings, and excerpts from
correspondence in which detailed information was received or given;
and the photograph file which is a numbered and cross-referenced
collection of mounted prints for which negatives are maintained and
from which prints can be supplied at cost. During the year this
collection has increased substantially with particular emphasis upon
aircraft of World War II. The process of indexing, captioning, and
mounting was improved so that all material received during the year
was indexed and filed, and the backlog reduced. Improvements were
also made in the system of recording accessions and specimens.

For several years the National Air Museum has been collecting pe-
riodicals in an effort to establish a functional reference library. Indi-
vidual collections received from the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics, R. M. Kinderman, Scott Appleby, Smithsonian Institu-
tion duplicate stacks, and other sources remained in storage until it
was indicated that sufficient material was available to establish the
periodical library. Further impetus was given to the project when
it was learned that the Division of Aeronautics, Library of Congress,

146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

was planning to dispose of its large collection of duplicate periodicals.
Arrangements were made to screen these duplicates, select issues re-
quired to fill gaps in the National Air Museum collection, and transfer
the material to the Museum. Accordingly the first step was taken in
March when the National Air Museum’s collections were screened and
cataloged so that the required issues could be selected from the Library
of Congress. About 6,000 periodicals were selected. Early in May
the integrating of all the collections was started, with an estimated
18,000 periodicals on hand. Space was provided in the east room of
the office suite. By the first week in June the periodicals had been
placed in chronological order ready for reference use. This periodical
library now consists of all the major aeronautical titles published in
the United States and two titles published in England. While some
volumes are incomplete, all years are covered by at least one title.
The intention is to establish a ready reference library of major titles
only. The periodicals are now being cataloged on cards which will
serve the usual record purposes and in addition list shortages for in-
tensified search to complete the volumes.

Detailed drawings of the Wright Brothers’ Kitty Hawh aeroplane
were prepared by the Musical Arts and Educational Foundation, Day-
ton, Ohio, under the direction of L. P. Christman.

Other additions to the reference files were received from W. B. Stout,
who lent drawings of the famous Ford-Stout airliner of the 1980's;
Ivan Jerome, who improved the file on helicopters; Maj. Kimbrough
Brown, long a friend of the Museum who, now in Europe, sent en-
riching material on foreign aircraft and some rare books; Capt.
Holden C. Richardson, U. S. N., who, under assignment from the
Navy Department in the interests of the Museum, prepared data from
which a model of the Navy 82—A seaplane could be constructed, this
being the first plane designed by the Navy and Captain Richardson’s
original project in 1916. At the close of the fiscal year Captain Rich-
ardson was preparing drawings and data on the NC-4. E. H. Heine-
mann of Douglas Aircraft sent illustrations of Douglas types,
performance charts, and other very informative drawings; Fred Wise-
man, of Berkeley, Calif., sent copies of contemporary accounts of his
pioneer flight with air mail in 1911; R. W. Griswold I was very help-
ful in improving the files on delta wing configurations; and Capt.
Charles F. Blair supplied descriptions of his renowned flight over the
North Pole, May 29, 1951.

The following reference material, considered especially noteworthy,
has been separately entered in an acknowledgment file:

Warren M. Bodie and James J. Sloan, Aero Historical Society, Van Nuys, Calif. :

A collection of 16 photographs and 7 negatives of racing aircraft and other
significant types.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

Warren M. Bodie and George R. Lawlor, Manhattan Beach, Calif.: A three-view
dimensioned scale drawing of the Curtiss R-6 Army Racer, 1922, drawn by
Mr. Lawlor.

Vineent J. Burnelli, New York: A collectjon of 1,192 photographs pertinent to the
Aeromarine Plane and Motor Corporation.

Department of the Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D. C.: A collection
of 130 enlarged photographs covering naval aviation history from 1911 to 1951.

RESEARCH

The many requests for information received during each year require
extensive research by the staff, while the preparation of displays
entails extended study in order to prepare correct labels and present
the material in its best and most complete form. In addition, the
staff members, when other obligations permit, engage in separate
research projects with a view to improving the collections and files.
A study of biographical material on noted airmen of World War I
has yielded interesting facts and exhibition material. The develop-
ment of helicopters is a project undertaken in connection with the
Aviation Industries Association and several manufacturers and has
brought in significant specimens, photographs, and texts. Apprecia-
tion is expressed to those authorities who have assisted with other
research undertakings; these include Mrs. Esther C. Goddard, who
personally checked labels to be exhibited with the rockets developed
by her late husband; Burdette Wright, who supplied helpful refer-
ences on the Curtiss P-40; and James Ray and his son, who gave
information on autogiro theory and operation.

ACCESSIONS

This year the bureau received 110 specimens from 21 sources, com-
prising 30 separate accessions. ‘Those from Government departments
are recorded as transfers; others were received as gifts, except as noted.
Each has been entered in the permanent records of the Museum and
formally acknowledged.

Atr Force, DEPARTMENT OF, Washington, D. C.: Nose and cockpit section of a
Republic XP-84 Thunderjet complete with instruments and equipment showing
the pilot’s compartment of a type now in service in Korea (N.A.M. 737).

AMERICAN HELICOPTER SOCIETY, Bridgeport, Conn.: The Alexander Klemin Award,
a placque presented annually by the Society for notable achievement in rotary
wing aeronautics (N.A.M. 782, loan).

Benpix Aviation Core., North Hollywood, Calif.: A “Gibson Girl” automatic
radio transmitter with kite-supported antenna used in World War II for air-
sea rescue (N.A.M. 749).

CHRYSLER Motor Corp., Detroit, Mich.: A flying model airplane, built by Henry
Struck, which, in a competitive sport contest at Alameda, Calif., July 20,
1949, sponsored by the donors and sanctioned by the Academy of Model

_ Aeronautics of the National Aeronautic Association, attained a speed of
80.634 mph, surpassing the former Russian record (N.A.M. 726).
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

CONSOLIDATED VULTEE AIRCRAFT Cokp., San Diego, Calif.: (Through Ernest Stout
and with cooperation of the Department of the Navy.) A radio-controlled
1:10-size free-flying model with which many important characteristics of the
full-scale Convair XP5Y-1 flying boat prototype were determined (N.A.M.
736).

Curtiss-WricHt Corp., Wood Ridge, N. J.: (Through George Page.) The orig-
inal motorcycle made by Glenn H. Curtiss, 1906, and used as a test bed for
his 8-cyl. 40-hp Vee aircraft engine with which he established a world speed
record of 137 mph January 24, 1907 (N.A.M. 734). (Through the Wright
Aeronautical Division.) A collection of 17 exhibition scale models of airplanes
produced by the Curtiss-Wright Corp., Airplane Division, during the period
1928-44. Models vary in scale (N.A.M. 721).

Dovertas ArrcraFrT Co., Santa Monica, Calif.: An exhibition model, scale 1:16,
of the Douglas Cloudster. One of the first designs produced by Donald Douglas
and his associates, 1921 (N.A.M. 747).

EDUCATIONAL AND Musicat Arts, Inc., Dayton, Ohio: Seale drawings, dimen-
sioned and in detail, of the Wright Brothers’ Kitty Hawk aeroplane of 1903,
drawn by L. P. Christman, using as a basis the original aeroplane, the original
drawing by the Wright Brothers, and notes made by and in the presence of
Orville Wright (N.A.M. 738).

Hopri-Correr, INc., Seattle, Wash.: The prototype ‘“Hoppi-Copter” designed in
1945 by Edward Pentecost as a manually supported one-man helicopter (N.A.M.
729).

HUBBELL, CHARLES H., Cleveland, Ohio: An exhibition model, scale 1:16, of the
Wright Brothers’ Type EX aeroplane Vin Fiz in which C. P. Rodgers made
the first transcontinental flight, 1911. The model made by Mr. Hubbell illus-
trates the aeroplane as it appeared at the take-off, September 17; many repairs
and replacements had altered its appearance when it completed the flight 84
days later (N.A.M. 740, purchase).

Lear, INc., Grand Rapids, Mich.: The radio equipment and accessories for the
automatic pilot installed in the P-51 airplane Hecalibur-III in which Capt.
C. F. Blair, Jr., flew from New York to London, thence to Bardufoss, Norway,
across the North Pole to Fairbanks, Alaska, and on to New York, 1951
(N.A.M. 745).

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS, Washington, D. C.: Instruments
used in the original trans-sonie flight of the Air Force Bell X-1, October 14,
1947, comprising 4 telemetering instruments and 3 film-recording instruments
(N.A.M. 727). A wind-tunnel model, scale 1:7, of the Naval Grumman fighter
airplane, type XF7F-1 Tigercat, 1948, complete with supports and mano-
metering extensions, as used in the 8-ft. high-speed wind tunnel at Langley
Field, Va., for research tests on the F7F series (N.A.M. 728). A free-flight
sling-shot glider model of the Ludington-Griswold delta wing design, 1944,
and the instrument panel from the German Lippisch delta wing aircraft, 1945
(N.A.M. 730).

NATIONAL AERONAUTIC ASSOCIATION, Washington, D. C.: The Frank G. Brewer
Trophy awarded annually, since 1943, for “the greatest achievement in the
field of air youth education and training” (N.A.M. 733, loan). ‘The Collier
Trophy, awarded annually, since 1911, for “the greatest achievement in aero-
nautics in America the value of which has been thoroughly demonstrated by
actual use during the previous year” (N.A.M. 735, loan). (Through John
Victory.) The Wright Brothers’ Memorial Trophy awarded annually, since
1948, for “significant public service of enduring value to aviation in the United
States” (N.A.M. 739).

SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

NationaL CASH RecIster Co., Dayton, Ohio: (Through Carl Beust.) A full-
sized reproduction (5 ft. x 16 in.) of the Wright Brothers’ wind tunnel, 1902,
complete with balances, airfoils, and other test shapes, and with its 2-bladed
fan mounted on a grinder-head and supported on a wooden post as in their
original installations (N.A.M. 741).

Navy, DrePArTMENT or, Washington, D. C.: Original wind-tunnel model of a
Sturtevant S—4 seaplane, 1916 (N.A.M. 723). A rocket engine, regeneratively
cooled, designed by James H. Wyld, and tested, 1938 (N.A.M. 731). (Through
the Office of Naval Research, Special Devices Center, Port Washington, L. I.)
A General Electric I-16, J-31 jet engine, cut-away example, 1,600 pounds static
thrust, at 16,500 r. p. m., 1942 (N.A.M. 743). Two jet aircraft engines—a
German Junkers Jumo 004, 1,980 pounds static thrust at about 8,700 r. p. m.,
1943, and an English DeHavilland Goblin, 3,000 pounds static thrust at 10,200
r. p. m., 1948; both having parts sectioned and cut away to show construction
and operation (N.A.M. 744). Seven reciprocating aircraft engines—a Wright
Brothers’ 4-cyl. upright 30-hp. at 1,200 r. p. m. of 1910; a Wright Brothers’
60-cyl. upright 60-hp. at 1,400 r. p. m. of 1912; a Curtiss 6-cyl. upright 60-hp.
at 1,500 r. p. m. of 1913; a Curtiss K-6, 6-cyl. upright 150-hp. at 1,700 r. p. m. of
1918; a Gnat A. B. C. (English) 2-cyl. opposed, 45-hp. at 1,915 r. p. m. of 1919;
a Ranger V-770-8, 8-cyl. inverted Vee, 520-hp. at 3,150 r. p. m. of 1941; and a
Packard-Merlin (American version of English Rolls-Royce), V—1650-7, 12-cyl.
Vee, 1,490-hp. at 3,000 r. p. m. of 1945 (N.A.M. 748).

Newcoms, CHarLes J., Baltimore, Md.: An exhibition model, scale 1:16, of the
Glenn L. Martin TT airplane, one of the first tractor designs ordered by the
Aviation Section of the U. S. Signal Corps and the Navy, 1914. This was a
2-place biplane powered with a Curtiss 80-hp engine and with a speed of 65 mph.
It was described by Grover Loening, then Aeronautical Engineer for the Signal
Corps, as the Army’s “first really safe and satisfactory training airplane”
(N.A.M. 725, purchase).

PARKER, WILLIAM D., Bartlesville, Okla.: The droppable landing gear, radio
set, and loop antenna used by Wiley Post during his continental substratosphere
flights in the Winnie Mae, 1935 (N.A.M. 746).

Pratrr & Wuirney Arrcrarr Division, Unirep Atrcrarr, East Hartford, Conn.,
with assistance of Harvey Lippincott: Engine accessories embodying signifi-
cant developments of the World War II period, comprising 7 carburetors, 3
automatic engine controls, and 7 other accessories, cut away to show con-
struction (N.A.M. 742).

Stout, WiLt1AM B., Phoenix, Ariz., with cooperation of the University of Detroit:
The Stout Sky Car, a 2-place high-wing monoplane, all-metal construction,
with pusher engine, designed as a general-purpose sport plane, 1931 (N.A.M.
750).

Torrrna, E. W., of Topping Models, Akron, Ohio; Exhibition model, scale 1: 48,
of the Glenn L. Martin Co. P4M-1 Mercator, long-range patrol airplane, 1949
(N.A.M. 724).

VALLEY Frocks, Inc., Lancaster, Pa.: A selected collection of parachutes, para-
chute parts, and other aeronautical gear dating from 1918 to 1942 (N.A.M. 722).

Respectfully submitted.
Paut E. Garser, Head Curator.
Dr. A. Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10

Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Construction of the new 2-story laboratory begun last year was
completed. The entire ground floor is now of reinforced concrete,
extending 5 feet beyond the building on all four sides. The ground
under the concrete was treated with sodium arsenite, as a protection
against termites; all four sides were walled in with terra-cotta blocks
faced with cement; and the building was surrounded by a concrete
ditch. The lower windows are in aluminum frames, and all windows
are provided with plastic screens. A photographic dark room, 15 x 11
feet, is included. Two laboratory rooms, 15 x 23 feet, were built, each
to accommodate two to four scientists. These rooms will be provided
with beds and dressers, and it is hoped to install dry closets in each.
Funds to install sinks, work tables, and shelves will need to be supplied
later.

The ground behind the building was leveled and a pit dug for an
additional concrete water tank to store the runoff from the roof of the
building. Since this reservoir is urgently needed, it is hoped that
it can be completed during the next fiscal year.

The ground floor of the zinc-meta-arsenite building, just below the
main laboratory building, was covered with reinforced concrete and
will be available for laboratory use. The building has two rooms,
each with a separate entrance, which will comfortably accommodate
two persons in each room. The lower floor of the main laboratory
has been cleared of miscellaneous storage material, and this has
about doubled the available working space for scientists.

The library and herbarium now in the Haskins building are being
transferred to rooms on the upper floor of the new building. When
this change is completed, the kitchen equipment will be moved into
the larger, fireproof Haskins building. The toilets and showers,
now in the main laboratory building, will then be moved into the
old kitchen building.

The large main building, which accommodates six persons, is in
satisfactory general condition but will soon need repairs to screening

150

SECRETARY’S REPORT 151

and the addition of a dry storage room. To reduce the fire risk, the
attic is no longer used for drying purposes.

The resident manager’s house and the building used for the East-
man Kodak Co.’s research on deterioration and corrosion are both in
good shape. The Barbour cottage, which can accommodate two to
four persons, is in good repair. The old Chapman building is serv-
iceable but not in too good condition; with some repairs it can last
about two years more. It accommodates four persons, and all the
ground floor is used for laboratory purposes.

The building now occupied by the caretaker and the dormitory
for the cook are in good shape; but the dormitory for the laborers
needs repairs.

The trail-end houses on Barbour Point and Burrunga Point now
are usable only as temporary shelters from rain. The treated-wood
house at the end of the Drayton Trail and the Z-M-A house (Fuertes
House) are in good condition. The shelter at the end of Zetek Trail
is in fairly good condition but needs some repairs.

The old generators for light and power are no longer in shape to
operate, except one 5 KVA, and that one is far from satisfactory.
The new 15 KVA Diesel-driven generators, now on order, should
give satisfactory service for at least 10 years.

The floating equipment is in good condition.

MOST URGENT NEEDS

The most pressing need is for a concrete platform building at the
dock to house the two new generators soon to arrive and the Diesel-
oil storage tank, with loading and unloading equipment at Frijoles.
Next in order is the concrete water-storage tank behind the new
building.

There is a real need for suitable dry closets; these should be made
during the coming fiscal year. Reducing the humidity to control
corrosion and deterioration cannot always be accomplished by heat.
In some cases the use of dehumidifiers is preferable, especially in
the photographic darkroom and where chemicals are to be stored.

In the new building, sinks, shelves, and closets should be installed.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

The principal purpose of the Canal Zone Biological Area is to
provide a safe tropical environment for research. In view of the far-
flung interests of our nation, it is of vital importance that problems
related to tropical conditions be solved in advance of the need for
information on those conditions in defense operations. Work of this
character is done by many scientists from universities and institutions,

236639—53——11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

and at no expense to the Government. This research should receive
every encouragement.

During the 1952 fiscal year, 48 scientists were on the island. The
high cost of transportation to the Canal Zone still keeps many from
coming, and some of those who do come cannot spend as much time
on the island as they would like. A list of the season’s investigators,
with a brief summary of their researches, follows:

Principal interest or
special study
Inspection of facilities for

scientists.
Inspection of termite tests

Investigator

Atwater, Mr. and Mrs. R. M., executive secretary,
American Public Health Association.

Beale, Dr. James A., in charge of division of forest
insect investigations, U. S. Bureau of Hnto-
mology and Plant Quarantine.

Blair, J. P., New York Zoological Society. Study of tropical environ-
ment.

Ecology of mammals, particu-
larly primates.

General observation.

Bourliere, Dr. F., professor of medicine, Faculté
de Médecine, Rue Huysmans, Paris.

Brunn, Dr. Anton H., director of oceanographic
exploration, Danish Deep Sea Expedition
(1950-52).

Bull, John L., Jr., secretary, Linnaean Society of
New York.

Cherbonnier, Mr. and Mrs. E. C., member of advis-
ory council, Agricultural Research Administra-
tion, St. Louis.

Dickinson, Sam, artist, University of Kansas,
Lawrence, Kans.

Birds and insects.

Mammals and birds.

Collection and preparation of
material for tropical-habi-
tat museum group.

Dunn, Dr. and Mrs. Emmett R., professor of | Reptiles and amphibians.
zoology, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.

Eisenmann, Dr. Eugene, New York, N. Y. Birds; published first com-
plete annotated list of birds
of island during year.

Bird behavior; fruit crow;
general biology.

Photography of tropical en-
vironment.

Collection and preparation of
material for  tropical-
habitat museum group.

General zoology; photo-
graphic record; made first
record of 5-toed armadillo
(Cabassous centralis) on
the island.

Ecology of ants.

Ellis, Dr. Hazel R., head of biology department,
Keuka College, Keuka Park, N. Y¥.

Fairchild, Dr. Graham B., staff entomologist, Gor-
gas Memorial Laboratory, Panama City.

Hall, Dr. E. Raymond, professor of zoology, Uni-
versity of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.

Ingles, Dr. and Mrs. Lloyd C., professor of zoology,
Fresno State College, Fresno, Calif.

Jackson, Dr. William, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Md.

Johnson, Hon. and Mrs. Leroy, Member of Con-
gress from California.

Kelly, Mrs. Junea W., president, northern di-
vision, Cooper Ornithological Club, Alameda,
Calif.

Conservation.

Birds.

SECRETARY’S REPORT

Investigator

Kerr, Charlotte, training, health and sanitation
division, Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

Laughlin, Robert M., student, Princeton Univer-
sity, Princeton, N. J.

Logan, Blwood, photographer, American Museum
of Natural History.

Long, Mrs. Roberta, Alameda, Calif.

Lundy, William B., assistant paymaster, Panama
Canal Co., Balboa Heights, C. Z.

Martin, Dr. George W., professor of botany, State
University of Iowa, Iowa City.

Mausteller, Dr. John E., professor of forestry,
Michigan State College, Lansing, Mich.

Mielche, Hakon, author, Danish Deep Sea Expe-
dition (1950-52).

Milne, Dr. Lorus J., professor of zoology, Uni-
versity of New Hampshire, Durham, N. H.

Milne, Dr. Margery, assistant professor of zoology,
University of New Hampshire.

Milotte, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred, Walt Disney Pro-
ductions, Burbank, Calif.

Morris, Robert C., entomologist, U. S. Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine.

Nelson, Mrs, Edith, Alameda, Calif.

Perrygo, Watson M., exhibits preparator, Smith-
sonian Institution.

Rettenmeyer, Carl, student, Swarthmore College,
Swarthmore, Pa.

Schneirla, Dr. T. C., curator, department of ani-
mal behavior, American Museum of Natural
History.

Schnitzer, Mr. and Mrs. Albert, Elizabeth, N. J.

Schultz, Mrs. Marguerite M., botanist, University
of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.

Soper, Dr. Cleveland C., director, Tropical Re-
search Laboratory, Eastman Kodak Co., Pa-
nama City.

Therrien, H. P., Miami, Fla.

Vowles, Dr. David M., Fulbright exchange profes-
sor, Tufts College, Medford, Mass.
Walker, Hastings H., M. D., Leahi
Hawaii.

Welden, Arthur L., graduate student, State Uni-
versity of Iowa, Iowa City.

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution.

Young, George, taxidermist, University of Kansas,

” Lawrence, Kans.

Hospital,

153

Principal interest or
special study

Observation of tropical en-
vironment.
Birds, mammals, and moths.

Army ants; photographic
record.
Birds.

Birds, mammals, and insects.
Fungi.
Humid tropical environment.

General observation.

General zoology, especially
invertebrates.

Invertebrates; photographic
record.

Photography of tropical en-
vironment,
Investigation
control.
Birds.
Birds.

of termite

Behavior of army ants.

Behavior of army ants.

Birds and mammals.

Collection and preparation of
material for tropical-habi-
tat museum group.

Deterioration and corrosion
tests of photographic equip-
ment and supplies; advice
on operation of plant.

General observation; photog-
raphy.

Morphology of ants as rela-
ted to behavior.

Observation of tropical en-
vironment.

Fungi.

Birds; inspection of plant.
Collection and preparation of

material for tropical-habi-
tat museum group.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
VISITORS

In addition to the scientists, 602 other visitors came to the island
during the year. Among these were Paul A. Blanquet, chief engineer
of the Suez Canal; Dr. David Potter, of Clark University, Worcester,
Mass.; Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Kennard, of Washington, D. C.; J. R.
Eisenmann and Mr. Woodin, of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Dr. Frank E. Maz-
land, Jr., of Carlisle, Pa.; Elton E. Hooser, of the U. S. Bureau of
Entomology and Plant Quarantine, Washington, D. C.; several Boy
Scout troops, including the Explorers’ Post; and several groups of
Girl Scouts. For these Scout groups the visits were educational in
nature.

There were also members of the Liceo of Panama, several groups
from LaSalle College, members of the Junior College of the Canal
Zone, under the leadership of Prof. George E. Lee, members of the
Servicio Geografico del Ejercito de Brasil and the 370th Engineer
Amphibious Support Regiment, the Diablo Heights and Balboa High
School Camera Clubs, members of the Institute of Inter-American
Affairs, the Inter-American Geodetic Survey, the Air Corps School,
and officials of the Canal Zone Government, the Panama Canal Com-
pany, and the Panama Embassy.

ADDITIONS TO THE LIST OF VERTEBRATES

The following vertebrates were added to the list published in the
1950 report:

MAMMAIIA:
Desmodus rotundatus murinus (vampire bat).
Cabassous centralis (5-toed armadillo).
REPTILIA ;
Liotyphlops albirostris.
Ninia maculata.
Trimetopon barbouri.
Pseudoboa neuwiedii.
AMPHIBIA :
Hyla venulosa.

These 7 species, with the 173 given in the list previously published,
and the 306 kinds of birds, make a total of 486 vertebrates known from
the island.

DONATIONS

The resident manager donated to the library a set, complete to
date with index volume, of the 26 volumes of Biological Abstracts, a

SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

set of the Journal of Parasitology, and a long series of complete
bound volumes of the Experiment Station Record; also considerable

laboratory glassware.
RAINFALL

In 1951, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell on 48 days (154 hours)
during the dry season (January to April), and on 194 days (764
hours) during the wet season (8 months); a total for the year of
242 days, 918 hours. Rainfall was 5.44 inches above the 27-year
average. During the dry season the excess amounted to 7.56 inches,
and during the wet season there was a deficiency of 2.12 inches. Five
of the eight wet-season months registered deficiencies, amounting to
a total of 11.24 inches. October was the wettest month, with 19.43
inches (27 days, 128 hours). March was the driest month, with 0.30
inch (4 days, 11 hours). A new 1-hour record was established on
October 12, 4.11 inches. The previous high was 3.68 inches.

TABLE 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

Total Station

Year inches average
LO2ZoaeS serena 104. S7iHyY Yiaees.
NO26 2 2 eke 118. 22 1138. 56
LHS Aes of eee 116. 36 114. 68
LOZ Sis: See = 101. 52 111. 35
TAS PAS hye a, we ad 87. 84 106, 56
L930. eee ee 76. 57 101. 51
193te = owe 123. 30 104. 69
NGS 2B = ree ee 113. 52 105. 76
19SSe ee aes 101. 73 105. 32
LOS4 tase STUY 122, 42 107. 04
WO Sree at > tae 148. 42 110. 35
19036. 2b SS 93. 88 108. 98
LOS (aes SPOT 124. 13 110. 12
NOS Ss saucemare cree 117. 09 110. 62
LOSO Seta 115. 47 110. 94
NOAQ ULE Lites 86. 51 109. 43
LO Aiehe ts Shae 91. 82 108. 41
LOAD Rue Seo oe a TE TO 108. 55
MO AS ee eee 120. 29 109. 20
LO4A ra rise cen 2h 111. 96 109. 30
OAS re eS 120. 42 109. 84
TG4Ge Ses A 87. 38 108. 81
LOATRS weet 2 77. 92 107. 49
L948: 3s 83. 16 106. 43
LOA) ses oe 114. 86 106. 76
OBOE eos cee 114. 51 107. 07
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1950 and 1951 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

(inches)
Total Accumu-
Month Station Years of | Excessor | lated ex-
average record deficiency cess or

1950 1951 deficiency

JANMALY sce. oe oe 0. 20 2.21 1.75 26 +0. 46 +0. 46
Webruaryas- 222 Se ey 1.87 3. 76 1.30 26 +2. 46 +2. 92
March: sb <=. it dt iets gare 0. 48 0.30 1. 24 26 —0. 94 +1. 98
5 6) 9 | be Se lS TT 2.73 8.53 2. 95 27 +65. 58 +7. 56
Mayhew. 2. 2) En 7.86 12.19 10.83 27 +1. 36 +8. 92
JUNG Se ee ce es ea ee 14, 66 10. 94 11.39 27 —0.45 +8. 47
July See P Pe Ses 12.37 5.37 11.47 27 —6.10 +2. 37
AUIQUS Fo 2 ee oe oe Fi pe 11.48 11.29 12, 27 27 —0. 98 +1.39
Beptambarr’ se 7,20 9.62 10.02 DHE —0. 40 +0. 99
October. $224 f*_ -AL2 Ue 14.02 19. 43 13.39 27 +6. 04 +7.03
November!=:% - 2) 8-25 see 24.19 16.15 19. 46 27 —3.31 +3. 72
December 6 = kk 17. 45 12. 93 GPs 27 +1.72 +5. 44
Year] 223. 2) 114. 51 112. 72 107/28 oe n.2. 825 ee +5. 44

Dry seasons s4 = eee 5. 28 14. 80 7 PAPE el at Rat ag im JE at a ce +7. 56
Wetiseason > ..22 522223 te 109. 23 97. 92 1005 28.22 eS See ees —2.12

The maximum yearly rainfall of record on the island was 143.42
inches, and the minimum was 76.57 inches. For short periods the
following were the maximums: 5 minutes, 0.85 inch; 10 minutes, 1.40
inches; 1 hour, 4.11 inches; 2 hours, 4.81 inches; 24 hours, 10.48 inches.

FISCAL REPORT

During the fiscal year 1952, $11,558.12 in trust funds was available.
This sum included a balance of $226 from 1951 and $3,000 contributed
by the Smithsonian Institution from its private funds. Of this
amount $11,294.09 was spent, leaving a balance of $264.03.

The following items are paid out of trust funds: Food, wages,
freight and express, office expenses, and miscellaneous expenses such
as parts for the automobile, kitchen equipment, and general upkeep.
This year food represented 41.8 percent of the total expended, and
wages, 53.8 percent.

The Smithsonian Institution allotted $16,646.96 from Government-
appropriated funds, of which $16,600.38 was expended. Of this
amount $7,580 was for two new 15-KVA Diesel-driven generators, and
$4,217.78 for contracts to complete the lower floor of the new building
erected this year. Approximately $1,850 from allotted funds was used
for the purchase and transportation from Frijoles to the island of
gravel, sand, cement, and reinforcing steel for the completion of this
lower floor.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 157

During the year fees from scientists totaled $3,722, more than four
times as much as the amount received for the fiscal year 1951. Visitors’
fees amounted to $1,503. Reimbursements for supplies furnished
amounted to $756.72.

The rates for scientists and visitors have not been raised since the
laboratory started in 1928, despite the rising costs of food, wages, ma-
terials, and services; but increased costs have reached the point where
the laboratory is now reluctantly forced to increase its rates. The
new rates now in effect are $3 per person for 1-day visitors, $4 a full
day for scientists from institutions that support the laboratory
through table subscriptions, and $5 a full day for all others. A 1-day
visit includes the use of the launch to and from the island, the noon
meal, and the guide in the morning. A full day for scientists in-
cludes three meals and lodging.

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory
through the payment of table subscriptions:

Marian iedaks (ole fa it es ORE MOMI Ob Jo%0D 4k TR Dae, oe $1, 000
NewYork ZooloricaliSociety-esset th te ans wT oye .. 300
American Museum of Natural History____.06......... 300
iP CHSOnIag TSIM tO. =e ee ee eg 300

It is most gratifying to again record donations from Dr. Eugene
Eisenmann of New York and FE. C. Cherbonnier of St. Louis.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Thanks are due to the Canal Zone Government for its whole-hearted
cooperation; to the Panama Canal Company, especially Alton P.
White, chief of the Dredging Division, and J. A. Driscoll, assistant
chief, for their technical help, and the Commissary Division for its
efficient services; to Maj. George Herman, Chief of Police, and the
officers under him; and to officials and employees of the Panama Rail-
road for their able assistance.

Respectfully submitted.

JAMES ZETEK, Resident Manager.

Dr. A. WetTMorr,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11

Report on the Library

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Smithsonian Library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1952.

Probably not since 1866, when the Smithsonian Deposit in the
Library of Congress was established by Act of Congress, has there
been an event in the history of the Smithsonian Library more epoch-
marking than the transfer, after more than a hundred years, of the
librarian’s office from the Smithsonian Building to the Natural His-
tory Building and the dismantling of the old office library reference
room, in order to effect a consolidation of all major library functions
of the Institution. The National Museum Library, as a separate
branch, was merged with the Smithsonian Library, and its staff, func-
tions, and equipment were consolidated with the units of the Smith-
sonian Library. The consolidated library will hereafter be known
as the Smithsonian Library. The position of assistant librarian in
charge of the National Museum Library was changed to that of chief
of the reference and circulation section of the Smithsonian Library.
The change became effective on November 2, 1951.

The Museum Library had long been the largest of the Institution’s
branch libraries, with the most comprehensive subject coverage in its
basic reference collections. Its reference services had never been
limited to the curatorial staff of the Museum but were given to the
whole Institution, and interlibrary loans were handled by its loan
desk. Its physical separation from the administrative offices of the
library in the Smithsonian Building resulted in a considerable and
increasing amount of duplication of cataloging and other record keep-
ing and of the acquisition of reference books. It is hoped that the
present centralization of staff, functions, records, and materials will
result in better and more economical library service to the whole
Institution.

The change in quarters affected the work of the acquisitions section
somewhat less than that of the other sections. It had an exceptionally
busy year. Its records show the receipt of 60,512 publications, most
of which came either by mail or through the International Exchange
Service from 92 different foreign countries, dominions, colonies, and
protectorates, as well as from all the States of the Union. The library
continues to owe the largest part of this wide coverage of the special

158

SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

literature needed by the scientific and curatorial staff of the Institu-
tion to the cordial exchange relations maintained with scientific and
other cultural institutions throughout the world. These relations
are continually being extended, and there were 531 new exchanges
arranged during the year, while 7,899 different publications were
received in response to 497 special requests for volumes or parts of
serial publications needed to fill gaps in our collections.

Acquisitions by purchase included 1,278 books and 332 subscriptions
for foreign and domestic serial publications not obtainable by ex-
change. Most of the books bought were recent publications, but a
few of the many out-of-print works still much needed were purchased
as they came into the market. It is highly desirable to be able to buy
the most needed of these old books when copies are advertised for sale,
but many of them are prohibitively expensive for a small budget, when
they are available at all.

As always, friends of the Institution made many generous gifts to
the library. Especially noteworthy among the larger donations was
a selection of more than a thousand volumes from the library of the
late Gen. John J. Pershing, presented by his son, Francis W. Pershing,
especially for the use of the division of military history in the National
Museum.

The library is deeply indebtedly to many members of the Smith-
sonian staff for their generosity and thoughtfulness in giving the
library copies of their own publications and other books and papers.
Stamp collectors everywhere will, directly or indirectly, have reason
to be especially grateful to Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., for the more than
1,500 publications on stamps he has donated from his own library to
the sectional library in the division of philately. Many other gifts
to the sectional library were obtained through his good offices.

Of the grand total of 22,774 publications transferred to the Library
of Congress during the year, 5,573 were books and serial publications
individually stamped and recorded as additions to the Smithsonian
Deposit. Others were 2,481 doctoral dissertations from European
universities, and 14,720 foreign and domestic documents, and many
miscellaneous publications on subjects not immediately pertinent to
the work of the Institution.

Of the 3,216 publications transferred to the Army Medical Library,
581 were medical dissertations. To other government libraries were
sent 425 publications on subjects in their special fields of interest.

There were one or two fairly large and a number of small with-
drawals from the library’s huge collection of duplicates, but the collec-
tion continued to grow. The 11,420 pieces selected and sent to the
United States Book Exchange, for exchange credit, made no noticeable
impression on it. The collection needs the exclusive time and atten-
‘tion of a small staff of its own, working under the direction of the
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

chief of the acquisitions section, to keep it in order and to make the best
possible use of it for exchange purposes.

In the catalog section, the merging of the separate catalogs of
the Museum books and serials with the central catalog and serial
records of the Institution was begun immediately and has gone for-
ward as fast as circumstances would permit. There is an enormous
amount of work to be done in such an enterprise where more than a
million cards must be handled with scrupulous accuracy in unifying
entries and eliminating unnecessary duplication. Under the most
favorable conditions it will take a long time to complete it, but when
it is finished the Institution will have the most complete record it
has ever had of the library’s collections and, it is hoped, the most
effective aid to their use.

In addition to the work of reorganization in the catalog section,
5,779 publications were cataloged, 20,175 parts of serial publications
were entered, and 30,488 cards were added to catalogs and shelflists.

The work of the reference and circulation section is most difficult
to measure and evaluate statistically because figures are very imper-
fect indices of the many indeterminate variables involved in reference
services to the staff and bringing together the books and their users.
However, statistics show that 11,780 publications were borrowed for
use outside the library, exclusive of 7,314 books and periodicals as-
signed to sectional libraries for filing which are circulated within the
divisions to which they are assigned. Interlibrary loans of 1,231
publications were made to 99 different Government, university, and
other institutional libraries throughout the country. For use within
the Institution, the library borrowed 1,357 publications from the
Library of Congress, many of which were Smithsonian Deposit copies,
and 405 publications were borrowed from other libraries.

More than 16,000 reference questions were answered in response
to letters and telephone calls and to inquirers who came to the library
in person.

Funds allotted for binding permitted only 623 volumes, mostly
currently completed volumes of periodicals, to be prepared and sent
to the Government Printing Oflice, but 1,563 old books were repaired
in the library. The library is in no sense a museum of fine books,
but it nevertheless has many valuable volumes, and not a few irre-
placeable ones in its working reference collections that are actually
collector’s items. How to give them the proper housing and the
continuous care that they ought to have to maintain them in good
condition is one of the library’s most serious problems.

The principal need of the library continues to be more and better-
arranged space, with adequate provision for growth. It also needs
a staff of competent librarians commensurate in size with the require-
ments of the Institution for library service. It needs more funds for

SECRETARY'S REPORT 161

books and especially for binding. Many of the physical and organ-
izational changes inaugurated during the year were good, considered
as initial steps in long-range planning, but plans can only be brought
to fruition if they are firmly and continuously supported by the means
to carry them out.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

ACCESSIONS
Volumes | Total reoorde
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress-_-_-- 738 584, 213
Smithsonian library (includes former office and
MauISeUMabran ches) ee eee ee ee ee es 4, 026 287, 645
Astrophysical Observatory (includes Radiation
and @franigms) it elite 2 Se Ve eae 219 14, 040
Bureau of American Ethnology___-_---------- 107 35, 068
Dlationsl Air, Minseum 9.2 22. ke Pe ses 78 288
National Collection of Fine Arts_.___________- 230 12, 685
National: Zoological Park- 2 -=---2- 22. =-- << 32. 5 4, 204
PRCA SARE Ry Bivive hme at tere ht ut 5, 403 938, 143

Neither incomplete volumes of serial publications nor separates
and reprints from serial publications are included in these figures.

EXCHANGES
INewmexchanges jarranced 9-2. fone Pet aS Em Oe eB 531
152 of these were for the Smithsonian Deposit.
Specially, requested publications, received=——=—-——.. =... == -_—--__- = 7, 899

1,137 of these were obtained to fill gaps in Smithsonian Deposit sets.

CATALOGING

Volumes and pamphlets cataloged______-_-__-------------------+---- 5, T79

Cardsraddedstoveatalogsiand! shelflists#2=2— = = =) ee SS 30, 488
PERIODICALS

Periodicalaparts: entered 2 2-= 2 ie See Ea ee ee oe 20, 175
CIRCULATION

oans*of “books and” periodicalso. 2222 Uke 202 Aaa ee 2 ees 11, 730

Circulation of books and periodicals in sectional libraries is not
counted except in the division of insects.

BINDING
Volumesvsentitoethesbin ery 222 es Bilis ee ert Cee eae ee Set 623
Volumes repaired tiny the libraryss222) 2A 2 seen ee 1, 563
Respectfully submitted.
Lema F. Cuarn, Librarian.
Dr. A. Wetmore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
APPENDIX 12

Report on Publications

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year
ended June 30, 1952:

The Institution published during the year 18 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of
Regents and pamphlet copies of 19 articles in the Report appendix,
1 Annual Report of the Secretary, and 2 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 24
Proceedings papers, 1 Bulletin, and 1 paper in the series Contributions
from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report, 4
Bulletins, and 1 paper in the series Publications of the Institute of
Social Anthropology.

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued 1 publication; and the
Freer Gallery of Art published title page and table of contents of
1 volume in the Occasional Papers series.

The final number of Ars Islamica (comprising volumes XV-—XVI)
was issued in August 1951. This journal, published by the University
of Michigan under the editorship of Dr. Richard Ettinghausen, of the
Freer Gallery of Art, was seen through the press by the editorial staff
of the Smithsonian Institution. Future numbers, to be known as
Ars Orientalis, will be published jointly under the imprint of the
University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution.

At the end of the year galley proof of the ninth revised edition of the
Physical tables was beginning to come in.

Of the publications there were distributed 144,166 copies, which
included 32 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 34,691 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellane-
ous Collections, 25,863 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 2,350 War Background Studies, 2,288 Smithsonian special
publications, 5 reports and 262 sets of pictures of the Harriman Alaska
Expedition, 52,653 volumes and separates of National Museum publi-
cations, 17,964 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
3,541 publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology, 1,140 cata-
logs of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 596 volumes and pam-
phlets of the Freer Gallery of Art, 13 Annals of the Astrophysical

162

SECRETARY’S REPORT 163

Observatory, 2,182 reports of the American Historical Association,
and 636 miscellaneous publications not published by the Smithsonian
Institution (mostly Survival Manuals).

In addition, 33,471 picture pamphlets, 89,385 guide books, 67,591
natural-history, Smithsonian buildings, and art postcards, 30,334 sets
of photo cards and picture postcards, 25 sets and 12 prints of North
American Wild Flowers, and 9 volumes of Pitcher Plants were
distributed.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 114

Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. Sixth revised edition. Compiled by Robert
J. List. Whole volume. xi+527 pp. (Publ. 4014.) [Oct. 10] 1951.

VOLUME 115

Biological investigations in Mexico, by Edward Alphonso Goldman. Whole vol-
ume. xili+476 pp., 71 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4017.) July 31, 1951.

VOLUME 116

No. 38. Two runic stones, from Greenland and Minnesota, by William Thalbitzer.
71 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 4021.) Aug. 30, 1951.

No. 56. Middle Cambrian stratigraphy and faunas of the Canadian Rocky Moun-
tains, by Franco Rasetti. 277 pp., 34 pls., 5 figs. (Publ. 4046.) Sept. 18, 1951.

No. 7. The butterflies of Virginia, by Austin H. Clark and Leila F. Clark. 239
pp., 31 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4050.) Dec. 20, 1951.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4061.) [Feb. 4] 1952.

VOLUME 117

No.1. North American fireflies of the genus Photuris, by Herbert Spencer Barber.
With preface and notes by Frank A. McDermott. 58 pp., 3 figs. (Publ. 4051.)
Nov. 27, 1951.

No. 2. Additional forms of birds from Colombia and Panama, by Alexander Wet-
more. 11 pp. (Publ. 4052.) Sept. 25, 1951.

No. 3. Relationships of certain genera of fungus gnats of the family Mycetophili-
dae, by F. R. Shaw and M. M. Shaw. 238 pp., 45 figs. (Publ. 4053.) Dee. 27,
1951.

No. 4. A revised classification for the birds of the world, by Alexander Wetmore.
22 pp. (Publ. 4057.) Nov. 1, 1951.

No. 5. Annotated list of birds of Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal Zone, by
Eugene Hisenmann. 62 pp. (Publ. 4058.) Feb. 7, 1952.

No. 6. The scaphopod mollusks collected by the First Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-
Sea expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep, by William K. Emerson. 14 pp., 1
pl. (Publ. 4059.) Feb. 26, 1952.

No. 7. Host relationships of moths of the genera Depressaria and Agonopteria,
with descriptions of new species, by J. F. Gates Clarke. 20 pp., 6 pls. (Publ.
4083.) Apr. 23, 1952.

No. 8. The sand crab Emerita talpoida (Say) and some of its relatives, by R. EH.
Snodgrass. 34 pp., 11 figs. (Publ. 4086.) Apr. 15, 1952.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

No. 9. Precipitation and temperature in Washington, D. C., for 1951 and 1952,
by C.G. Abbot. 5 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 4087.) Mar. 18, 1952.

No. 10. Periodicities in the solar-constant measures, by C. G. Abbot. 31 pp.,
6 figs. (Publ. 4088.) May 28, 1952.

No. 11. Important interferences with normals in weather records, associated with
sunspot frequency, by C. G. Abbot. 3 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 4090.) May 20, 1982.

VOLUME 118

Smithsonian Logarithmic Tables (to base e and base 10), by George Wellington
Spenceley, Rheba Murray Spenceley, and Eugene Rhodes Epperson. Whole
volume. xii+402 pp. (Publ. 4054.) [Mar. 26] 1952.

ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1950.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1950 was received from the printer on October
15, 1951:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1950. ix-+522 pp., 84 pls., 47 figs. (Publ. 4025.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 4026-
4044) :

Beyond the Milky Way, by Thornton Page.

The luminous surface and atmosphere of the sun, by Bertil Lindblad.

What is an elementary particle? by E. Schrédinger.

The composition of our universe, by Harrison Brown.

The Wright Brothers as aeronautical engineers, by M. P. Baker.

Chemical achievement and hope for the future, by Linus C. Pauling.

Electroencephalography, by W. Grey Walter.

Energy from fossil fuels, by M. King Hubbert.

Permafrost, by Robert F’. Black.

Earthquakes in North America, by B. Gutenberg.

Wolf Creek meteorite crater, Western Australia, by D. J. Guppy and R. S.
Matheson.

Natural history in Iceland, by Julian Huxley.

Praying mantids of the United States, native and introduced, by Ashley B.
Gurney.

Man’s disorder of nature’s design in the Great Plains, by F. W. Albertson.

Food shortages and the sea, by Daniel Merriman.

Economic uses of lichens, by George A. Llano.

The origin and antiquity of the Eskimo, by Henry B. Collins.

Archeology and ecology on the Arctic slope of Alaska, by Ralph §. Solecki.

Samuel Seymour: Pioneer artist of the Plains and the Rockies, by John Francis
McDermott.

Report for 1951—The Report of the Secretary, which will form
part of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was
issued January 18, 1952:

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of

the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 380,
1951. ix+160 pp.,4 pls. (Publ. 4056.)

SECRETARY'S REPORT 165

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The Smithsonian Institution. 30 pp., 18 pls. (Publ. 4048.) [Aug. 9] 1951.

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution May 1,
1952. Compiled by Lester E. Commerford. 61 pp. (Publ. 4084.) [May
14] 1952.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum continued under the
immediate direction of the editor, John §. Lea. Gladys O. Visel,
assistant editor, retired on February 29, 1952, after 3514 years’ serv-
ice in the Institution. The Museum issued during the year 1 Annual
Report, 24 Proceedings papers, 1 Bulletin, and 1 paper in the series
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, as fol-

lows:
ANNUAL REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1951. iv-+112 pp., 5 pls. [Jan. 10] 1952.

PROCEEDINGS
VOLUME 99

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-viii+541-573.
Feb. 7, 1952.
VOLUME 101

No. 3287. New finds of Pleistocene jaguar skeletons, by Edward McGrady, H. T.
Kirby-Smith, and Harvey Templeton. Pp. 497-511, pl. 16, figs. 97-102. Oct.
16, 1951.

No. 3288. An annotated checklist of the mosquitoes of the subgenus Finlaya
(genus Aedes), by Kenneth L. Knight and Elizabeth N. Marks. Pp. 513-574.
Feb. 12, 1952.

No. 3289. A new subspecies of marine isopod from Texas, by Robert J. Menzies.
Pp. 575-579, figs. 103 and 104. Aug. 3, 1951.

No. 3290. Studies of certain apogonid fishes from the Indo-Pacific with descrip-
tions of three new species, by Ernest A. Lachner. Pp. 581-610, pls. 17-19.
Dec. 18, 1951.

VOLUME 102

No. 3291. Contributions to the morphology and the taxonomy of the Branchio-
poda Notostraca, with special reference to the North American species, by
Folke Linder. Pp. 1-69, pls. 1-7, figs. 1-81. June 27, 1952.

No. 3292. A study of an intermediate snail host (Thiara granifera) of the
Oriental lung fluke (Paragonimus), by R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 71-116, pls.
8 and 9, figs. 32-45. Feb. 26, 1952.

No. 3293. Some marine asellote isopods from northern California, with de-
scriptions of nine new species, by Robert J. Menzies. Pp. 117-159, figs. 46-71.
May 29, 1952.

No. 8294. Australasian stilt-legged flies (Diptera: Tylidae) in the United States
National Museum, by George ©. Steyskal. Pp. 161-180, figs. 72-74. Feb. 26,
1952.

- No. 3295. Aphotaenius, a new genus of dung beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae),

by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 181-184. Mar. 7, 1952.
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

No. 3296. Preliminary analysis of the vertebrate fossil fauna of the Boysen
Reservoir area, by Theodore EH. White. Pp. 185-207, figs. 75-80. Apr. 2,
1952.

No. 3297. A new crayfish from Alabama, with notes on Procambarus lecontet
(Hagen), by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. Pp. 209-219, figs. 81, 82. Mar. 27, 1952.

No. 3298. Moths of the genera Mulona Walker and Lomtna, a new and closely
related genus (Arctiidae: Lithosiinae), by William D. Field. Pp. 221-230,
pls. 10 and 11. Mar. 19, 1952.

No. 3299. A new species of commensal amphipod from a spiny lobster, by
Clarence R. Shoemaker. Pp. 231-233, fig. 83. Mar. 27, 1952.

No. 3300. A new genus of Central American milliped (family Euryuridae),
with notes on the American genera, by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 235-248,
fig. 84. Apr. 24, 1952.

No. 3301. An emended diagnosis of the copepod genus Pupulina (Caligoida),
with descriptions of new species and a redescription of the genotype, by Mildred
Stratton Wilson. Pp. 245-263, pls. 12-15. Mar. 19, 1952.

No. 3302. Echinoderms from the Marshall Islands, by Austin H. Clark. Pp.
265-303. Mar. 27, 1952.

No. 3303. A new species of insect of the order Protura, by Grace Glance. Pp.
805-314, figs. 85 and 86. Apr. 25, 1952.

No. 3304. New American cynipid wasps from galls, by Lewis H. Weld. Pp. 315-
342, pls. 16 and 17. Apr. 24, 1952.

No. 3305. Notes on mammals from the Nile Delta region of Egypt, by Henry W.
Setzer. Pp. 343-369 Apr. 2, 1952.

No. 3307. Schizostella, a new genus of brittlestar (Gorgonocephalidae), by
Austin H. Clark. Pp. 451-454, pl. 40. Mar. 19, 1952.

No. 3308. Moths of the genus Epeiromulona, a new genus of Lepidoptera, by
William D. Field. Pp. 455-469, pls. 41-46. Apr. 25, 1952.

No. 3309. A review of the stink bugs of the genus Mecidea, by R. I. Sailer. Pp.
471-505, pls. 47 and 48, figs. 88 and 89. June 27, 1952.

No. 3310. Review of the fishes of the blennioid genus Hcsenius, with descriptions
of five new species, by Wilbert M. Chapman and Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 507-
528, figs. 90-96. Apr. 24, 1952.

BULLETINS

201. The Mysidacea of the United States National Museum, by Walter M. Tatter-
gall. Pp. i-x + 1-292, 103 figs. Oct. 4, 1951.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
VOLUME 380
Part 4. Studies of Pacific Island plants, X. The Meliaceae of Fiji, Samoa, and
Tonga, by A. C. Smith. Pp. i-iii + 469-522. May 6, 1952.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

M. Helen Palmer, editor of the Bureau since 1939, retired on March
31, 1952, after nearly 34 years’ service in the Institution. During the
year the Bureau issued 1 Annual Report, 4 Bulletins, and 1 paper in
the series Publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology, as
follows:

SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

ANNUAL REPORT
Sixty-elghth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1950-51. if
+40 pp. [Feb. 20] 1952.
BULLETINS

146. Chippewa child life and its cultural background, by Sister M. Inez Hilger.
xiv + 204 pp., 31 pls., 1 fig. Dec. 21, 1951.

147. Journal of an expedition to the Mauvaises Terres and the Upper Missouri
in 1850, by Thaddeus W. Culbertson. Edited by John Francis McDermott.
viii+164 pp.,2 maps. Apr. 29, 1952.

148. Arapaho child life and its cultural background, by Sister M. Inez Hilger.
Xv-+253 pp., 40 pls., 1 fig. June 26, 1952.

149, Symposium on local diversity in Iroquois culture. Edited by William N.
Fenton. v-+187 pp., 21 figs. Dec. 17, 1951.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

No. 14. The Indian caste of Peru, 1795-1940: A population study based upon tax
records and census reports, by George Kubler. vi+71 pp., 2 pls., 1 fig.,
20 maps. June 18, 1952.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

The opening of the Adams-Clement Collection. 23 pp., 7 pls. (Publ. 4055.)
November 1951.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
OCCASIONAL PAPERS
VOLUME 1
Title page and table of contents. 3 pp. (Publ. 4049.) [July 23] 1951.
REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report
volume was issued this year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association, 1950. Vol. 1, Proceedings.
[Oct. 24] 1951.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fifty-fourth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, on February 11, 1952.

236639—53——12
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING

The year’s printing and binding allotment from congressional ap-
propriation was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The allot-
ment for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1953, totals $92,320,
divided as follows:

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Regents, with

Appendix; Annual Report of the Secretary) —~-___-_______-__-_--_---- $17, 000
National: Museum:2 S225 202206 es oe Ae ee oo ee eee 34, 945
Burean-of American’) bthnology==) =. => +2 a eee 12,000
Astrophysical ODSCLVatOl yaaa = a ee ee 5, 000
National Air Museum == 2 22-22 ee 500
Service divisions (Annual Report of the American Historical Associa-

tion’: blank forms ; binding: print shop) ==) 2 eee 22, 875

Total 22s yeh ee ee Ee. Je So ee ees 92, 320

Respectfully submitted.
Pau H. OrHser,
Chief, Editorial Division.
Dr. A. Wermors,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1952

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay-
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the
amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present
year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested
in stocks, bonds, and other holdings

Fund Investment eye Rac
Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings)____-- $728, 924. 14 $43, 722. 58
Subsequent bequests, gifts, and other funds, partly deposited in the
U.S. Treasury and partly invested in the consolidated fund:
Avery, Robert S. and Lydia, bequest fund____-_.-..--.-_____-___._- 55, 548. 76 2, 920. 40
MndGwilent tan Geet eas ena ene ee ee rae ass enee sews 371, 778. 10 18, 383. 27
Habelpr.i8:, bequest iund. 248. sober nt nies nee nao el ae tyr 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__..---_--.---.--- 4, 230. 45 211. 46
Hamilton; Jamespbequest fund s-seses so ssa ee 2, 924. 62 171. 22
Henry, ‘Caroline, bequest fund a: ioe es ee ee eg ees 1, 272. 20 63. 60
iodekins’ Thomas; G= (generalieitt) 2 ss-s ace sean bos ese ene 147, 864. 18 8, 547. 26
Porter, Henry Kirke, memorial fand seu) Lees Jet eee 301, 253. 66 15, 056. 94
ihees; William Jones, bequestiitind == o-ssseusseee sec eee oe ee 1, 087. 61 60. 26
Sanford, George H., memorial fund__.--_----.-.-.-.-...-----_______- 2, 036. 41 112. 79
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund__...-.._....-___-___-_____- 135, 746. 21 6, 784. 73
Special fund 2 ieee Ses oe cscs oseuee ec et pore ht aly ent hegre en 92.00
MD BO Ao) [ee er ch ote nS TARR erp 5 ft Resa we nh, aaa tan coe Sek aime 1, 024, 242. 20 52, 433. 93
Grandjto tala a ne ee 1, 753, 166. 34 96, 156. 51

169
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the in-
come of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions
to date, are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Fund Investment nore 20 la

Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology-..-.------------- $110, 163. 98 $5, 434. 88
Arthur, James, fund for investigations and study of the sun and annual

Jecture:onisame.:.-2555 5526s en ee ee oe 42, 068. 52 2, 102. 63
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate

fauna of countries other than the United States_.__.--._-.-.-.-__-___ 52, 700. 44 2, 633, 99
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird_______- 25, 326. 11 1, 265. 82
Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund, for collecting of paintings and pastels

and for encouragement of American artistic endeavor__------.--------- 20, 426. 28 854. 34
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park_ 1, 051. 66 52. 58
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection

Ol mingralss% 45222 e ses a A 2 oo rg eek Sea 40, 231. 62 2, 010. 74
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and

promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera___.-------------------- 13, 184. 81 554. 83
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea

collection ofizemsvandimollusks ss. + ee. Sens 2 es See ee 29, 621. 70 1, 480. 51
Dykes, Charles, bequest fund, for support in financial research_------_-- 45, 293. 53 1, 894. 10
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of

the photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr.---.-.--------- 1i, 433. 77 664. 01
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of

ghting objects 2.222: Sec es eee See eh t eke ey ee BR 6, 913. 21 345. 53
Hitchcock, Albert S., library fund, for care of the Hitchcock Agrostologi-

(Cal DADT Any osteo ae as on eae ee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee eee 1, 659. 80 82. 97
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact know]l-

edge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air....._-------- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hrdlitka, AleS and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro- ;

pology and publication in connection therewith_..-.-...--------------- 31, 758. 78 1, 512. 29 5
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove. -_------------------------ 20, 134. 51 1, 006. 35 i
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long q

collection of embroideries, laces, and textiles_..--..-...---------------- 571.16 28. 55 i
Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection - - 20, 632, 28 1, 031. 20
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art

for use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts......._----.- 19, 939, 31 996. 61
Noyes, Frank B., fund, for use in connection with the collection of dolls

placed in the U. 8. National Museum through the interest of Mr. and

Wirs WN O¥e8s=22 6 do ope Sect pecs 3. 352 ee ee te ET 1,010. 59 21.37
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell

(ru) Seo Ca) 1 eR ae a Se rN rte ne te ow So 7, 797.08 389. 71
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution

whentprincipaliamounts 101260 000 =.e2-s. asses ee ee eee 143, 387. 14 7, 081. 80
Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. 8S. National

Minsenm containing Crustacea*t2o sce) neon eee eee eee 11, 187. 84 559.19
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology, in memory of

Agher ‘Dumnis £2. 2-22. 2s cece si esa See eet ee 2 ee 30, 807. 63 1, 650. 11
Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roe-

Diinetcollectionhoteminerals:2.— 2) oe eee 126, 950. 45 6, 345.11
Rollins, Mirjam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and

Chemistry. $28 eek eae ede et eon 98, 769. 57 4, 936. 61
Smithsonian employees’ retirement fund.........-.-.-.-.--------------- 30, 151. 84 1, 592. 24
Springer, Frank, fund, for care and increase of the Springer collection and

Soi gt ieee Oe Ne Ses Se Ce ee ee eee Re eeeren. oe 18, 863. 34 942. 80
Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of

imi Ar tes Bes Se a eee et ee ee 10, 517. 25 525. 67
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of

geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof___- 421, 512.60 19, 955. 16
Walcott, Mary Vaux, fund for publications in botany__..._..._..-_____- 60, 888. 72 1, 793. 75
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust_..._..._----------._-.--_---- 58, 796. 92 1, 966. 00
Zerbes, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria.__..-..._-_-_- 997.77 49.87

AN) FER ei eee ee ee ea eee 1, 614, 750, 21 77, 661. 32
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ra:
FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock
and securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment
fund for the operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced
in value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the
fund now amounts to $6,752,796.55 in selected securities.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes_____________________ $1, 7538, 166. 34
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer

PURECHONVERR DG etm rete ee ee sae ae Ae we Gu 1, 614, 750. 21

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment__ 3, 367, 916. 55

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes___.____________ 6, 752, 796. 55

Total invested endowment for all purposes_...._._____-- 10, 120, 713. 10

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. 8. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591__________ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost

or market value at date acquired):

ENGR CIR a Se ol, a he ee a RL $677, 763. 74
SECO GA ya ee a ea est ees eae we 1, 566, 862. 25
Real estate and first-mortgage notes______- 13, 610. 03
Uninvested capitals: 2-7-5. ks 109, 680. 53

2, 367, 916. 55

Total investments other than Freer endowment--_-_-______ 3, 367, 916. 55

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired):

BONER Es tee ia te eyo lo Oa eee ee $3, 682, 580. 68
Paros ieee eto he AIS eA he Sah hal 3, 070, 009. 40
Mminvested capital 222.2 oe 206. 47

——— — 6, 752, 796. 55

opal nimventMentss =o kt os ee Se UE 10, 120, 713. 10
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING
FISCAL YEAR 1952?

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1951___-__-_---------------- $536, 209. 02
Receipts, other than Freer endowment:
Income from investments_-_---------------- $182, 036. 91
Royalties on sale of publications__-_--------- 11, 183. 45
Gifts and CON rOUutlONS! 224-8 137, 938. 19
Sales*of- publications 222.02. 222202 2232.25 22 39, 082. 13
Miscellaneous! 32.4 Bee ais ee Att Bee gst 15, 653. 73
Proceeds from real-estate holdings_---------- 1, 458. 44
Proceeds from other stocks and bonds (net)--_ 62, 600. 71
Payroll withholdings and refunds of advances
(Heb) ees Soe So ee eee Sek ee aoe ae 1, 650. 18
Total receipts other than Freer endowment_-----~------- 451, 603. 74
Receipts from Freer endowment:
Interest and’ dividends™4 2220222242 224. 2==e= $299, 451. 42
Total receipts from Feer endowment------------------- 299, 451. 42
Phetal et. 2 Sooo teeta Sa eye eS oe a eee 1, 287, 264. 18

Disbursements other than Freer endowment:

Administrations 2650005 Se ee eee $78, 482. 08
Publications 2: 629-4) eee 54, 862. 42
labrary 22-5 25 2 2S Cee eee ee 615. 78
Custodian fees and servicing securities- - ----- 3, 141. 93
Miscellaneous: 2.22) 24 2eessset i Bi AS 4, 611. 95
IResearchesis25 39322 ait oes ee ee eee 1138, 942. 68
Sot. Retirement System= = - "ss 3, 284. 76
U. S. Government and other contracts (net) - - 4, 925. 34
Purchase and sale of securities (net) ..-.----- 122, 054. 29

Total disbursements other than Freer endowment------- 385, 921. 23

Disbursements from Freer endowment:

Salaries: 2322s eee: cans Se ee eee eee $106, 307. 29
Purchases for collectionsis. 222 222522222222 153, 457. 19
Custodian fees and servicing securities_ - - -- -- 10, 962. 54
Miscellaneous. - eo eee see ee ee eee 22, 493. 26
Purchase and sale of securities (net) _-_------ 97, 058. 88

Total disbursements from Freer endowment____--------- 390, 279. 16

Total dishtreaments.° 222-422" -4ee52228>- 532 ssa essen 776, 200. 39

Cash balance. June’ SU; 1952... 22s cehee east as sess ee ee eeeee 511, 063. 79

el 0 9 «7 (a SI RL pel 3 RIE Ny ema ee aIa  aeanil ae ct 1, 287, 264. 18

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the
Institution,

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury current
ACCOUNG SR ee ee $299, 379. 74
In banks and on hand______-__- 211, 688. 05
511, 063. 79
Less uninvested endowment funds_. 109, 887. 00
$401, 176. 79
Travel and other advances+..—- = 2. 222se.ssc 32 15, 724. 39
Cash invested (U. S. Treasury notes) ___________ 600, 778. 01

Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds__ $6, 752, 590. 08
Uninvested capital_ 206. 47
————_————_ 6, 752, 796. 55
Investments at book value other

than Freer:
Stocks and bonds__________ $2, 244, 625. 99
Real-estate and mortgage
NOCES Sa ene eae ee 13, 610. 03
Uninvested capital_________ 109, 680. 53

Special deposit in U. S.
Treasury at 6 percent in-
Lerests Soe 2 sa 1, 000, 000. 00
———_————._ 3, 867, 916. 55

UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS

Unexpended funds:
Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment-_-____--------
Income from other endowments:

EVES ETUC UCC esters tie een ay ak ee et a dd $237, 044. 08
Ree Tey See ee ee, eee Ee Le meee 111, 490. 84

COUTRISIET TOS Of ctig 0) #2 Re ge aes SOROS SPN ES NE eee Reena Sener

173

$1, 017, 679. 19

— 10, 120, 713. 10

11, 138, 392. 29

$421, 279. 02

348, 534. 92
247, 865. 25

1, 017, 679. 19

Endowment funds:

BreerGallerwiot Awhs 3 ose ok eu ee $6, 752, 796. 55
Other:
Restricted__.....__. .- $1, 614, 750. 21
Generals eek xe oe 1, 753, 166. 34
——_—————._ 3, 367, 916. 55

10, 120, 713. 10

11, 138, 392. 29
174. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the Wash-
ington banks and trust companies has been continued during the past
year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $822.31.

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in
collection of checks, and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited
in the United States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by
check signed by the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the
United States Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Institu-
tion.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following:

Laura D. Barney, additional funds for the Alice Pike Barney collection of
paintings and pastels, etc.

Laura Welsh Casey Hstate, for addition to the Thomas Lincoln Casey fund.

Charles Dykes Estate, for use in financial research.

Joint Committee on Invertebrate Paleontology, through Raymond C. Moore,
for illustrations fund for Foraminifera.

E. R. Fenimore Johnson, additional funds for researches in underwater photog-
raphy.

Hf. A. Link, Link Aviation Corporation, for field expenses in historical research
(marine archeology).

Frank B. Noyes Hstate, for use in connection with the collection of dolls placed
in the U. S. National Museum through the interest of Mr. and Mrs. Noyes.

Wenner-Gren Foundation, for Graham publication fund.

Wenner-Gren Foundation, for work on the archeology of Mexico.

Wenner-Gren Foundation, for anthropological research.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1952:

salaries “and! CxpenSeS 22 2a ae ee ee $2, 553, 200. 00
National 'Zoological Park— =... 22 =s2we tues 53 ih ee 620, 800. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other departments of the
Government for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution as follows:

International Information and Educational Activities (transferred

to the Smithsonian Institution from the State Department)___._ $42, 000. 00
Working Fund (transferred to the Smithsonian Institution by the
Institute of Inter-American Affairs) ~-______________-_ —_ 45, 705.00

Working Funds, transferred from the National Park Service, In-

terior Department, for archeological investigations in river

basins throughout the United States_____._____________________ 157, 803. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of
the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island in
the Canal Zone.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 175
The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows:

WASHINGTON, D. C., September 9, 1952
To THE BOARD OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington 25, D. C.:

We have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art
and other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1952. Our examina-
tion was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other audit-
ing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living
and other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts
of the Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the posi-
tion of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof of the Smithsonian
Institution at June 30, 1952 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and other
departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under Federal
appropriations), and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year then ended,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis
consistent with that of the preceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & Co.

Respectfully submitted.

Roser V. FLEMING,
VaNNEvAR Bousu,
CLARENCE CANNON,

Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

to the

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1952

177
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrrat Avpenpix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
staff members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to
the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1952.

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be obtained,
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Division of Publica-
tions, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C.

178

Cok A an a a Sees A a Ee a ET

Radio Astronomy’

By J. A. RATCLIFFE
Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, England

Our knowledge of astronomical bodies is almost entirely derived
from observations of the electromagnetic waves which they emit. The
earth’s atmosphere forms a very complete absorbing blanket for most
of these radiations; but there are two “windows” in the atmosphere,
one in the region of optical wavelengths and one in the region of
short radio wavelengths. Radio astronomy deals with the study of
those radiations which reach the earth from outer space and are
transmitted through the radiofrequency “window” to the surface
of the earth.

If the radiation is received on a tuned radio receiver, it is found
that it fluctuates rapidly in an irregular manner, and if the resulting
signal is listened to with telephones it sounds like a rushing noise.
The reception and amplification of weak irregular noise in a radio
receiver present a difficult problem, because the resistances and valves
in the amplifier themselves produce similar random noise. The sepa-
ration of the received noise from the amplifier noise is usually achieved
by switching the amplifier rapidly back and forth between the aerial
and a controlled source of radio noise. If the noise produced by
the controlled source is not the same as that produced in the aerial,
there will be a fluctuating component in the output. This may be
recorded, and it provides a measure of the noise received by the
aerial.

Once it has been established that radiofrequency waves are incident
on the earth from outside, it is, of course, desirable to use some kind
of “radio telescope” to find their direction of arrival. The simplest
type of radio telescope consists of a concave mirror with a receiving
aerial at its focus and is similar to an optical reflecting telescope.
The accuracy with which the direction of arrival of waves can be
determined with any apparatus of this kind is, however, limited by
the ratio between the width of the mirror and the wavelength of the

Substance of a Friday Evening Discourse at the Royal Institution (Great Britain)
delivered on November 23, 1951. Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 169, March
1, 1952.

179
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

waves used. The wavelength of radio waves is so much greater than
that of light waves that it would require an aerial 150 miles wide to
give the same angular accuracy as an optical telescope with a lens
1 inch wide. It is obvious that, with radio telescopes, we cannot hope
to approach the accuracies which are possible with waves of light;
but in an attempt to get the best possible accuracy large mirrors
have been constructed. One of the largest, used by the workers at
Manchester, has an aperture of about 220 feet and is used on a wave-
length of 1.9 m. It is interesting to notice that, if our eyes could
observe angles with only the same limited accuracy as the mirror,
the sun would not appear as a clear disk in the sky, but it would
look like a diffuse blur about twice its present size. All the stars in
the sky would appear this same size, so that we should simply see
a general diffuse radiation corresponding to the overlapping of all
their blurred images. Where there was a particularly bright star
there would appear to be a diffuse bright patch of this same size.

Ficure 1.—Receptivity diagram of aerial arrays used in radio astronomy. From Proc.

Roy. Soc., A, vol. 193, 1948.

Large mirrors are costly and difficult to construct accurately, and
there is a physical limitation to their size. It has long been appreci-
ated in optical astronomy that in principle it is not necessary to use
the whole of the mirror to achieve the full angular accuracy and that
only the portions at the edge are required. This principle has been
applied in the following way in radio astronomy. Two aerial arrays
are used, separated by as great a distance as possible in the east-west
direction. The two arrays are connected to a single receiver at the
midpoint, and the combination then has different receiving powers
in different directions. The receptivity diagram has the form repre-
sented in figure 1, in which maxima alternate with minima. When
the earth rotates, the reception pattern is carried around with it, so

RADIO ASTRONOMY—RATCLIFFE 181

that an astronomical source of radiation which subtends a very small
angle would be received with periodically increasing and decreasing
intensity. If the source subtends an angle comparable with the angle
between two maxima, then it will always overlap one or other of them
and the response will not vary much. If there is a small concentrated
source, superposed on a general background of diffuse radiation, it
will produce an oscillating trace, whereas the diffuse radiation will
produce a steady trace. Figure 2 shows the type of record obtained
in practice. It indicates the presence of a general background of
diffuse radiation the intensity of which varies with time as the dif-
ferent parts of the sky come under observation, with two strong
isolated sources which produce the two oscillating traces at times
when the receptivity diagram is swept past them by the movement
of the earth.

ae fn

1600 1700 1800 1900 2000
UT.

Ficure 2.—Record of two isolated sources of radiation against a background of diffuse
radiation. From Ryle, M., Reports on Progress in Physics, vol. 13, 1950.

We now turn to examine some of the results which have been
obtained by the observation of astronomical sources. Records of
the type shown in figure 2 have indicated the existence of a large
number of discrete sources of radiation distributed throughout the sky
and have enabled their positions to be fixed within the angular
accuracy appropriate to the apparatus used.

The discrete sources of radiation which have been detected in this
way have been called radio stars. Their intensities cover a wide
range and the strongest are so intense that at a wavelength of 5 m.
two are stronger than the sun. It is interesting to inquire whether
the radio stars are, in fact, also visible stars, but in asking this question
we must remember that, on account of the limited angular accuracy
of the radio telescopes, it is not possible to locate the radio stars as
accurately as the visible one. Within the limits of +14 minute of
arc, to which any radio star can be located, there are always a large
number of visible stars. It seems clear, however, that the most intense
radio stars do not coincide with the most intense visible stars, and that
no Visible star of magnitude greater than 12 lies in the region ascribed
to any one of the four strongest radio stars. It appears that the in-
.tensity of radio stars is not related simply to the intensity of the
light which they emit.
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

In addition to the radio stars, there is also a general background of
radiation which cannot be resolved into discrete sources. The distri-
bution of intensity in this unresolved background is found to follow
closely the contours of the galaxy as determined from star maps.
It appears that the disklike assembly of visible stars which forms our
galaxy has associated with it sources of radio radiation which are
also distributed throughout this disk, so that we receive most radiations
from its plane, just as we see the Milky Way as a concentration of
stars in this plane.

The question now arises whether the galactic radiation is, in fact,
smoothly distributed over the galaxy or whether it is the sum of
radiations from innumerable radio stars which have not yet been
resolved. The fact that the discrete sources so far discovered are
distributed roughly evenly in all directions is not significant, because
it is most likely that they represent the strongest, and therefore the
nearest, sources and they may all be nearer than the shortest dimension
of the galaxy. It hasso far proved impossible to measure the parallax
of any radio star, because of the small resolving power of the tele-
scopes; the most that can be said is that they are farther away than
1/20 parsec, which is considerably less than the smallest galactic di-
mension. The present evidence appears to be neither for nor against
the supposition that all the galactic radiation comes from discrete
radio stars which are at present unresolved.

The fact that the radiation comes from the galactic plane, and
hence probably from sources throughout the galaxy, suggests that
our galaxy is probably also radiating outward into space. If this
were so, we might expect other galaxies to send some measurable
radiation to us. It has, in fact, been found that four very distant
galaxies, presumably similar to our own, fall within the somewhat
inaccurate directions found for four of the radio stars.

We now turn to consider the radio radiation received from the sun.
It is found that when the sun is not appreciably disturbed by the
presence of sunspots, the intensity varies with the wavelength of the
radiation. ‘This fact has an important theoretical significance which
will be discussed later. The distribution of emission across the
quiet solar disk has also been determined on several wavelengths,
and it is found that the “radio” sun is somewhat larger than the
“optical” sun and that, unlike the optical radiation, the radiation falls
off gradually near the edge.

When the sun is known, from optical observation, to be disturbed,
the radio radiation is often considerably enhanced. The enhanced
radiation is very variable, and sometimes sudden bursts of radiation
are associated with solar flares. Experiments with special aerials have
shown that the sources of enhanced radiation coincide fairly accurately
with visible sunspots.

gt ee A a a
RADIO ASTRONOMY—RATCLIFFE 183

Now let us inquire how these facts can be explained. We first con-
sider the radiation from the undisturbed sun, and note that it has all
the characteristics of the light which would be radiated in the complete
spectrum of electromagnetic waves from a hot body. The radiation
from a body at a high temperature would include an appreciable
amount of energy in the region of radio wavelengths, and if this radio
radiation were really a part of the continuous spectrum it would have
the characteristics of noise which are observed in the solar radiation.
If we assume that the radiation comes from an area slightly larger
than the solar disk (as shown by experiment) we can use the observed
intensity of the radiation to calculate the temperature of the region
from which it originates. When this calculation is performed, it is
found that the equivalent solar temperature is about one million
degrees, which is greater than that (6000° KX.) deduced from observa-
tion of the visible ight from the sun. Now the solar corona is supposed
to have a temperature of the order of one million degrees and to be
completely ionized, so that it consists of free electrons colliding, com-
paratively infrequently, with the positive nuclei of atoms. Calcula-
tion shows that it would radiate radio waves of the kind observed.
If this assumption is made, it is then possible to extend our knowledge
of the corona by observations of the radio waves. It is interesting to
note that because the corona extends considerably beyond the visible
disk of the sun we should expect the “radio sun” to be larger than the
visible one, as is, in fact, found.

After having said that there is a reasonably good theory for the
emission of radio waves from the quiet sun, we now have to admit
that there is no correspondingly simple explanation of the enhanced
radiation from sunspots.

When we turn to consider the galactic radiation also, it cannot be
said that any firm theory has yet been proposed. It is first natural to
ask whether a series of bodies like the sun, distributed throughout the
galaxy, could produce the observed radiation. In this connection we
note that, if all the visible stars emitted radio waves like the quiet
sun, the total radiation would only be about 10-° of that observed
from the galaxy. If they all emitted like the sun when it is most dis-
turbed, the total radiation would still fall short by a factor of about
10°. But the great constancy of the radiation from each of the 50 or
so radio stars so far observed makes it seem unlikely that they emit by
any mechanism corresponding to that which occurs on the disturbed
sun. If we assume that the strongest observed radio star (that in the
constellation of Cassiopeia) is at the distance of the nearest visible
star, and that the total number and distribution of radio stars and of
visible stars are the same, then we could account for the total radiation
from the galaxy. If it issupposed that the whole of the galactic radia-

2366395318
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

tion cannot be accounted for by radiation from discrete radio stars,
then it is necessary to postulate radiation from the interstellar matter.
Although the possibility of this has been considered in some detail,
it cannot be said that any theory which would explain the observed
intensity has yet been advanced.

When we seek a mechanism to explain the radiation from the ob-
served discrete radio stars, we first notice that they differ from the
sun in that they radiate comparatively much more strongly in the
radio frequencies than in the visible part of the spectrum, asif they had
photospheres which are much cooler than the sun and coronas which
are much hotter. But no detailed theory has yet been accepted to
explain them.

It appears likely that, in the immediate future, experimental radio
astronomers will concentrate their attention on devices for achieving
increased angular accuracy, in an attempt to observe more radio stars
and, if possible, to measure their parallaxes and angular sizes. A
search for the emission of characteristic “line” spectra from the galaxy
and from the sun will also probably be carried out, particularly in
view of the most interesting recent discovery that waves of length 21
cm. can be observed, owing to hydrogen, in certain directions in the
galaxy. On the theoretical side, attention will probably be directed
toward theories to explain the radiation from sunspots and from radio
stars.

PPP LPL PL LLL SLL PIP I PILL LEILA PSP APP AB LDAP. LPP ADAP PBL LAL LDAP AS

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Division of Publications, Smith-
sonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C.

The Sun, the Moon, and the Tides’

By Rear Admiral LEo Otis CoLBERT
U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey (Retired)

LrrrLz or no mention is made in early recorded history of the rise
and fall of the sea, which we callthe tide. This lack of interest on the
part of those writers and historians who lived along the shores of the
Mediterranean was due to the small tidal changes which occur there.
The earliest reference appears in the writings of Herodotus, the Greek
historian, who wrote of the voyages of early navigators. Ina descrip-
tion of the Arabian coast he mentions an arm of the sea in which
“every day the tide ebbs and flows.” A century and a half later
Pytheas of Massilia wrote of the tidal movement and noted that there
was a relationship between the tide and the moon. Pytheas had
gained his information because he was one of the few who had ven-
tured out of the Straits of Gibraltar into the open ocean. He had
sailed to the shores of Britain, where the ebb and flow of the sea is
much more noticeable.

In the first century of the Christian Era the tides are ascribed
definitely to the action of the sun and moon. In his Natural History,
Pliny describes some of the principal phenomena of the tides, but
knowledge of how the sun and moon provided the force necessary to
influence the tides was not developed until many centuries later. In
1687, Sir Isaac Newton stated that the tides were a necessary conse-
quence of the law of gravitation. He simplified the problem by sup-
posing the sea to cover the whole earth with a layer of water of
considerable depth. By mathematical formula he showed that the
relative masses and positions of the sun, moon, and earth could produce
a regular movement in the overlying water.

Under the stated circumstance, the mathematicians assure us that
the tides would be uniform. At any place, the time of the moon’s
passage of the local meridian would mark the time of a high water.
Six hours later a low water would occur. The greatest range in the
tides would occur at the Equator and the least difference between high
and low waters would be at the Poles. The character of the tide at
any place would depend upon the distance from the Equator—in

‘ 1 Nineteenth James Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on April 8, 1952.

185
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

other words, the character of the tide would depend upon the latitude
of the place.

Newton had proved that it was the attracting forces of the sun
and moon, with differing effects upon the solid earth and the waters of
the oceans, which gave rise to the tides. Further development of this
theory and of the problem of the tide has been the work of many
eminent mathematicians, including Bernoulli, Euler, Laplace, Airy,
Lord Kelvin, Poincaré, and others in Europe; and in the United States,
Ferrel and Harris.

TIDES AT VARIOUS PLACES

Knowledge of tidal causes and conditions becomes important when
they affect navigation, commerce, and the lives of people who live close
to the sea. Most of the great ports of the world are situated on tidal
waters, and the state of the tide is an important feature. The schedules
of ocean liners and of large modern steamers can usually be arranged
to take advantage of the more favorable conditions of the tide and
tidal current for entering ports and docking in congested harbors.

It is frequently necessary for a steamer to traverse many miles of
tidal waterways. For example, we may cite the Inland Passage to
Alaska where there is a considerable fluctuation in the rise and fall
of the tide. Except for the entrances into the main inlets and sounds,
numerous islands restrict the inside route. The navigator must know
the state of the tide at critical places along his course. Shoal water
in a strait between two main inlets, which would be hazardous at low
tide, could be navigated without danger at a higher stage.

As a member of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey field
party on board the ship AfacArthur, which made the original hydro-
graphic surveys of Cook Inlet, Alaska, I recall our difficulties in
erecting tide staffs to measure the great range of the tides in the
vicinity of the present city of Anchorage. At that time there were
no piers or other structures to which the staffs could be secured. Mud
flats extended offshore for several miles from the high-water mark. A
series of staffs were erected across these flats, and an observer, stationed
in a small boat, recorded the tide as it rose or fell on successive staffs.
Near this location, our record measurement was a 35-foot difference
in height between high and low water.

The need for information on tidal conditions in our coastal waters
became apparent toward the close of the last century when systematic
hydrographic surveys were inaugurated in pioneer regions and in
some rapidly growing seaports. This need brought about the develop-
ment of the automatic tide gage and of improved mathematical equip-
ment for analyzing tidal observations. With such gages installed at
strategic tidal locations, we have been able to accumulate much infor-

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 187

mation, in recent years, on the behavior of the tide at various seaports
and along the open coast.

When a tide gage is operated through a full month, there is traced
on a continuous roll of paper a line showing the rise and fall of the
tide for that period. Observations are usually continued month after
month, and, at basic stations, year after year. From the curve traced
on the tide-gage record, there can be obtained the times of high and
low water, the heights, the range of tide, and the height of water at
any intermediate time between high and low water. Studies of the
tide curves at various ports have disclosed differences in time, range,
and characteristics. We have learned of varieties in the tides which
occur because different water areas react to the same tide-producing
forces in different ways.

flat fala

a
lt lal

Ficure 1.—Tide curves, New York, Pensacola, San Francisco.

&® t& =~ Smp ™

Let us look at the tide curves of some of our coastal seaports and
note the differences exhibited. Figure 1 shows the actual curves,
recorded on automatic tide gages, of the rise and fall of the tide on the
same day at New York, Pensacola, and San Francisco—that is, for a
seaport along the Atlantic, the Gulf, and the Pacific coasts. At each
port, the central horizontal line represents the mean level of the sea,
above and below which the water has risen or fallen in the amounts
shown in feet to the left. At New York there are two high and two
low waters in a period of a day; the morning and evening tides do
not differ much and the tide has risen above the mean level of the
188 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

sea about as much as it has fallen below that level. At Pensacola the
tide has risen and fallen only once each day, and it is generally equally
above and below the mean level. At San Francisco there are two
highs and two lows each day, but there is a difference between the two
high waters and between the two low waters.

The characteristic features of these tides are repeated throughout
the year, and are the normal characteristics of these three seaports.

Typical tide curves at Seattle, Honolulu, and San Diego are shown
in figure 2. At each of these ports, there are two high and two low

[\ [\ (\ /\

Bw,

“se

Aaa GAT

Ficure 2.—Tide curves, Seattle, Honolulu, and San Diego.

waters ina day. At Seattle the high waters do not differ much in
height, but the low waters exhibit a marked difference. Note that
on the last day, the difference in height of successive low waters is
101% feet. At Honolulu the curve shows that the difference in height
of the high waters is more marked than for the low waters. If we

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 189

compare the characteristics of the tides of these two ports, we note
that at Seattle a lower low water is followed by a lower high water,
and a higher low is followed by a higher high. At Honolulu, a lower
high is followed by a lower low and a higher high is followed by a
higher low.

At San Diego there is a further contrast to each of the other two
ports. Here both the high and low waters of a day differ considerably
from each other, and the difference between successive high waters
about equals that between successive low waters.

There is another variety of tide for which we may refer to tidal
observations made at Galveston, Tex., and, halfway around the world,
at Manila in the Philippine Islands for the same 4 days. At both
ports two high and two low waters each day gradually shift to one
high and one low. There is usually a stand of the tide when the
lower high and the higher low waters merge. At this time there is
little difference in height. This stand of the tide takes place at
Manila on the rising tide and below the mean level, and at Galveston
on the falling tide and above that level.

In the tide-gage records of the foregoing seaports are found the
major features of the varieties which occur in the rise and fall of the
tide. At whatever place the tide has been observed, certain dis-
tinctive features have been found to distinguish the variety of that
tide.

WATER OSCILLATION IN A TANK

The great physical fact of the tide, apart from the particular
characteristics of its rise and fall, is the continual ebb and flow of
the sea at a periodic rate, due to the regular movements of the sun
and the moon which furnish the attracting forces to the waters of
the earth. This fundamental movement of the sea may be illustrated
by the action of water in a tank, which has been put in motion by some
outside force causing the water to flow to one end. The water level
will be raised at that end and will be lowered at the other. Being
fluid, the water will not maintain this position, but will flow toward
the opposite end. It will oscillate from one end of the tank to the
other, the period of oscillation depending upon the length of the tank
and the depth of the water. The movement of the water will follow
what is known as a stationary wave motion. The greatest change in
water level will occur at the ends of the tank, but across the middle
there will be no change. This line of no change, or axis, is the “nodal
line” of the tank.

If the movement of water occurred in two tanks placed end to end
to form two sections of a combined tank, and the partitions between
the two were removed, the water would oscillate or swash about two
‘axes or nodal lines in the combined tank. There would now be three
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

locations of high water and of low water, at the middle and at the
ends of the combined tank. It is evident that a further combination
of different tanks into one irregular-shaped basin would support a
stationary wave motion in sections and that there might be three or
more nodal lines. The water would come to rest eventually unless
the movement were continued by the original external force which
put it in motion. We know that when the force is continued to be
applied with the rhythm of the period of movement of the stationary
wave in that particular basin, the water will continue to oscillate.

TIDE-PRODUCING FORCES

In nature, the external force is astronomic. Tides are caused by the
attractions of the sun and the moon. The tide-producing forces are
the result of the difference in effects of the attraction of these heavenly
bodies on the waters of the sea and on the solid earth. The tide-pro-
ducing forces vary directly as the mass and inversely as the cube of
the distances of the heavenly bodies from the earth. Although the
mass of the sun is many times that of the moon, the inverse effect of
the cube of the vast distance to the sun, as compared with the nearness
of the moon to the earth, reduces the effect of the sun’s tide-producing
force to less than one-half that of the moon.

It is evident, under Newton’s law, that the gravitational pull of
the earth mass would overcome any vertical pull of the sun and
moon which would tend to lift the sea directly below; but owing
to the great mobility of water, it is equally obvious that horizontal
movement could be induced into a body of sea water by the pulling
force of these rotating bodies. It is the horizontal component of
the combined attractive forces of the sun and moon that sets in
motion the waters of the ocean basins and gives rise to tidal movement.

Dr. Rollin A. Harris, a tidal scientist of the United States Coast
and Geodetic Survey, proposed the stationary-wave theory for the
tidal movement and delineated various ocean basins that should prop-
erly respond to the tide-producing forces to maintain oscillating sys-
tems. Dr. Harris developed his tidal theory mathematically in 1900.
A study of tide observations at numerous places along the seacoasts
of the world has proved the correctness of Dr. Harris’s theory and,
in a general way, the correctness of the marginal limits he had
described.

OCEAN TIDAL BASINS

In most cases there are geographic land boundaries or submerged
bottom features that determine the configuration of the various ocean
tidal basins. The natural period of oscillation depends upon the
shape of the basin and the mean depth of water. The period of

ee ec en

ee ee ee

2 ees eee

catenin Nine te bE

ee
SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 191

oscillation corresponds to the period of the principal tide-producing
force. When the moon is the predominant force, this period is 12
hours and 25 minutes sun time or exactly 12 lunar hours.

There are two large basins in the Atlantic that respond to the
action of the moon to produce the tides in that ocean. The larger
of these extends across the North and South Atlantic Oceans with
the eastern coasts of North America at one end and the Antarctic
Ocean at the other end. The lateral limits in the open ocean may
only be approximated, but in other areas natural geophysical features
can be recognized. Such natural boundaries are the east coast of
North America, including the islands and reefs extending from the
Florida coast to the Windward Islands, the west coast of Africa
from Portuguese Guinea to Liberia and from Cape Fria to the Cape
of Good Hope. (See fig. 3.)

We may consider that this basin is made up of three sections,
in order to follow the movement of the stationary wave. The oscil-
lation that has been set up by the astronomic force will cause the
water to rise to its highest level at the ends and at junctions of the
sections, and there would be no change in water level across the axis
or the nodal line of each section.

At the present time there are no means for measuring the tide
in open ocean areas. Tides can be observed along the coasts and
en the off-lying islands of the continents that encompass this basin.
Referring to the eastern end of this Atlantic basin, the nodal line
of this section touches the Windward Islands of the eastern Caribbean.
At this location there should be little or no change in the tide. From
tidal observations along the shores of these islands, we find this
to be true.

If we proceed northwest along the shores of the West Indies to
the coast of Georgia, we should find increased ranges in the tide.
Tidal observations confirm this. For the coast of Puerto Rico, the
rise and fall is 1 foot; for the Bahamas, 2 feet; and for the Georgia
coast, 6 feet.

The period of oscillation of the water checks with the observed
times of high water and low water along the various coasts of the
continents of this main Atlantic basin. Twelve hours after the moon
passed over the meridian of Greenwich, the oscillation of the water
brought high water to the east coast of North America. Six lunar
hours later there was low water along this coast.

The tides observed along other shores of the Atlantic Ocean are
caused by the movement of water in a smaller basin, which consists
of two sections with two nodal lines. Eight hours after the moon’s
transit of Greenwich, high water will occur on the coasts of Iceland,
Greenland, and Labrador at one end of this basin and on the coast
of South America, between Natal in Brazil and Trinidad.
192 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

YW,

GHEAT ¢
CLZE Ae
BRITAIN

Ficure 3.—Tidel basins in the Atlantic Ocean.

The waters of the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico are not in-
cluded within either of the Atlantic basins. The area in which these
waters lie is not of the proper length and depth to sustain the system
of oscillation of those basins. These waters are separated from the
larger basin by the islands and submerged reefs that extend from
Florida to the northeast coast of South America. They respond to

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 193

a minor tide-producing force and there is a smal] daily rise and fall.

A tidal basin exists in the extreme western part of the Indian Ocean.
Its geographical limits are well defined on one side and end by the
east coast of Africa and the shore line of the Arabian Sea. The
island of Madagascar lies along the middle of the other side. This
basin is overlapped by two other basins which extend across the
Indian Ocean from east to west (fig. 4). The southern of these is
clearly defined at the ends by the coasts of Africa and Australia.
The northern basin is bounded mainly by the south coast of the con-
tinent of Asia and the shore line of northwest Australia.

Ficure 4.—Tidal basins in the Indian Ocean.

Where the east-west basins overlap the north-south basin in the
western part of the Indian Ocean, high water comes halfway
through the period of oscillation of the overlapping basins, one oc-
curring at the third hour and the other at the sixth hour. The sta-
tionary wave of one basin will bring high water at the time when the
water in the other has receded to sea level and neither the time nor
range of the tide is influenced by the overlap.

_ High water occurs at the third hour along the shore line of the
northern part of the Bay of Bengal, in sections of the coast of Aus-
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

tralia, and the southern tip of Africa. In the strait between Madagas-
car and the African coast the time of high water is 12 hours after
the transit and low water occurs 6 hours later.

The ocean basins of the Pacific that definitely respond to the semi-
daily tide-producing forces of the moon are shown in figure 5. There
is a major basin that covers most of the Pacific Ocean area. A nar-
row second basin crosses the major basin. It extends from the Cali-
fornia coast to the Fiji Islands and New Zealand and thence to the
southern tip of South America.

Ficus So Tidal basiae inthe Pacinewoceeas

It will be noted that California and Lower California in Mexico
form a geographic end to this basin. The oscillation of the waters
tends to increase the height of the tide at this location. High water
occurs at the sixth hour after the moon’s Greenwich passage.

In the major basin, high water occurs along the shore of the Gulf
of Alaska on the ninth hour after the moon’s Greenwich passage.

Long series of tidal observations on the open coast of off-lying
islands have assisted in checking the geographical limits of the great
Pacific tidal basin and of the location of the nodal lines. One of the
latter touches the coast of Japan, at Aomori, where there is a small
range of tide. There are small ranges, 114 feet, nearAcapulco on the

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 195

coast of Mexico and less than 1 foot in the Caroline Islands near
another nodal line.

It was noted previously that the tides were small in the Caribbean
and in the Gulf of Mexico. At the Atlantic entrance to the Panama
Canal, near Coldén, there is a range of 1 foot. At Balboa, on the
Pacific entrance, there is a considerable rise and fall, amounting to
12 to 16 feet. This large range is partly accounted for by the geo-
graphic location of this entrance at the end of a loop in the basin,
where the highest level is reached by the oscillation of the waters.

In the vicinity of the Aleutian Islands, there is practically no
semidaily tide. This archipelago, extending in an arc over 900 miles
from the Alaskan Peninsula, separates this Pacific basin from the
Bering Sea basin. The waters in each basin oscillate under different
influences of the sun and moon. When differences in elevation are
built up between the Pacific side and the Bering Sea side of these
islands, the passes between them become what has been termed “spill-
ways.” Tidal heights in the passes are not great, but the currents
are strong. Flood currents frequently flow for 18 hours at the rate
of 4 knots. The ebb, flowing southerly, is of shorter duration but
exceeds 6 knots, with velocities as high as 9 knots in some of the nar-
rower and shoaler passes. Under these conditions, heavy tide rips
occur. Some of these tide rips are 8 feet high and could seriously
endanger a small ship.

In speaking of turbulent tidal waters, another type should be men-
tioned, namely the tidal bore. This is caused wherever the shore and
bottom characteristics restrict the rise of the tide until a substantial
difference in elevation is built up. Frequently a wall of water will
advance across the shallow area at considerable initial velocity. Dur-
ing the survey of Cook Inlet, which I mentioned earlier, we had
occasion to observe this tidal bore in Turnagain Arm. This bore
could capsize or swamp a small boat. It was necessary to take pre-
cautions before the turn of the tide to insure that all working parties
and boats were clear of the flats and shoals covered by the bore. The
tidal bore in the Bay of Fundy is well known.

COTIDAL LINES

In speaking of the principal tidal basins in the oceans, mention was
made of some of the locations where high water occurred at the height
of the semidaily movement of the stationary wave, induced by the
oscillation of the waters in various sections. The times of high water
were related to periods following the time of the moon’s transit of the
meridian of Greenwich. The various locations of high water, as
produced by all tidal forces, have been delineated by cotidal lines. In
figure 6 there are shown the cotidal lines the Atlantic Ocean from the
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

first through the twelfth hour after the moon’s transit of Greenwich.
The semidaily cycle is complete in 12 lunar hours.

It will be noted that a cotidal line for the twelfth hour follows the
general trend of the coast of North America from Halifax in Nova

Scotia to Cape Canaveral in Florida and then turns off to the Bahamas,
wees. |

Ficure 6.—Cotidal lines in the Atlantic Ocean.

It shows that high water occurs at the same time at widely separated
places from north to south, but approximately at the same distance
off the coast. This cotidal line appears off the Delaware and Mary-
land coasts in figure 7, which shows the cotidal lines in Chesapeake and
Delaware Bays at intervals of lunar hours.

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT

Ficure 7.—Cotidal lines in Chesapeake and Delaware Bays.

From the theory of the tides, we know that the stationary ocean-
wave movement may set up a progressive wave when the effects of
this movement are extended to the waters of bays, harbors, and inlets
of a coastal area. The progressive wave is prominent in Delaware
and Chesapeake Bays and in New York Harbor.
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The progress of high water in Chesapeake Bay is shown by the
location of cotidal lines. Inside the entrance to the bay, high water
occurs 1 hour after the time of high water off the coast. High water
occurs on the lines shown at the second hour, third hour, and fourth
hour. At the fifth hour, high water occurs as the progressive wave
reaches Smith Island; at the sixth hour it is high water in the lower
Potomac; on the eighth hour, at Chesapeake Beach; on the tenth, at
Love Point on Kent Island; and on the eleventh hour near the en-
trance to Baltimore Harbor. At the next line, high water occurs at
the end of the 12-hour cycle. At this time the stationary wave has
induced another high water along the cotidal line off the coast. For
the next 2 hours, high waters occur at the extreme upper and lower
sections of Chesapeake Bay at the same time.

In lower Delaware Bay, between the first and second hour, high
water advanced about 25 miles; during the next hour it advanced 15
miles farther. High water occurs at Chester about the fifth hour and
at Philadelphia about 1 hour later.

The natural shapes of these two large bays have appreciable effect
on the range of the tide at various places. <A tide-gage station on a
pier jutting several hundred feet into the ocean at Atlantic City, N.J.,
has recorded a mean range of 4 feet. In Chesapeake Bay, owing to
the relatively shallow depth, which tends to absorb the tidal energy,
and the increased width above the entrance, the normal range of tide
is reduced; near the mouth of the Potomac it is about 1 foot. On the
other hand, the funnel-like shape of lower Delaware Bay increases the
range from 4 feet offshore to 6 feet at Philadelphia.

In both these bays, especially in the Chesapeake, high winds will
disturb the normal range and time of high and low waters. Strong
southeast winds cause water heights to rise and northerly winds to
reduce them several feet from the normal levels. Hurricane winds
have increased heights 5 to 6 feet.

TIDAL PREDICTIONS

In the early part of the last century there was need for predictions
of tides for many seaports of the world. It was necessary to know
when high and low water would occur, and what the amount of the
rise and fall of the sea would be. The depth of water in many ports
was a critical feature which determined the time of entry, loading,
and departure for sailing ships. It was widely recognized that the
predominant feature of the tidal movement was the relationship of
time of high and low waters to the time of the moon’s passage over-
head; and that the higher or lower tides occurred during certain
phases of the moon. A series of observations of the tide at an iso-
lated port were usually sufficient to furnish this connection approxi-

SUN, MOON, AND TIDES—COLBERT 199

mately. The mariner was given the information on the nautical
chart in the form of a tidal note.

In more recent years the need for precise prediction of the tide be-
came important. Knowledge of exact tide conditions and the ebb and
flow of tidal currents at definite periods and hours was needed months
in advance for engineering purposes and for coastwise and trans-
oceanic commerce. As contrasted with the general and incomplete
information on the early charts, there is now printed in tide tables
accurate and detailed data on the time and heights of high and low
water.

By the exchange of information with other maritime countries, tide
tables are printed for ports and seacoasts of all oceans. A casual
glance through these tables would show the great variation in the
tide for different geographic locations.

For preparation of the tide tables, long and tedious computations
are avoided by the use of computing machines, such as the Coast and
Geodetic Survey tide-predicting machine designed and built in the
bureau under the direction of Dr. Harris and E. G. Fischer. Along
each side of the machine are set the harmonic constants for a given
seaport. Derivatives of 87 component curves may be set on a series
of pulleys over which a flexible chain passes to sum up their respective
movements. The machine carries out four operations simultaneously,
namely, (1) draws the curve of the predicted tide, (2) marks on the
curve the time of each high and low water, (3) indicates the time and
heights of high and low water on dials, and (4) exhibits on these dials
the height of the tide at any desired time.

The first predicting machine was devised by Lord Kelvin, who ap-
plied the harmonic analysis to the problem of predicting the tide.
Complexities in this problem are caused partly by the varying configu-
rations of the shores and hydrographic features of different bodies of
water, but principally by variations in the combined effects of the
tide-producing forces of the sun and moon. The orbits of the sun
and moon are elliptical; they are inclined to the plane of the earth’s
Equator and the periods of revolution differ for these celestial
bodies. By the method of harmonic analysis are computed the am-
plitudes and phases of simple tides such as would be produced by a
number of suns and moons revolving in simple circular orbits, all in
the plane of the Equator. The complicated effects of the tide-pro-
ducing forces of sun and moon are broken down into a sufficient num-
ber of component curves to take care of the variations of the true sun
and moon from such simple circular movements.

SOLAR TIDES

One frequently hears the expression “the tide follows the moon.”
We have noted that the nearness of the moon overcomes the much
236639—53——_14
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

greater mass of the sun and that the waters in great tidal basins of
the oceans oscillate predominantly to the lunar semidaily tide-produc-
ing force. The axis of a tidal basin may be so situated that the waters
will receive the maximum effect of one force and the minimum effect
of the other.

In two ocean areas it has been found that the waters are under the
minimum influence of the moon. These waters respond to the period of
the tide-producing force of the sun. This condition gives rise to the
solar tides, which are found at Tahiti and in Torres Strait. Although
there is a slight variation, in minutes only, we have at Tahiti the
unusual feature of high water coming each day at noon and at mid-
night, and low water at 6 in the morning and 6 in the evening.

The tide at Tahiti has a small range. More recently a larger solar
tide has come to light on Tuesday Island, a smali island in Torres
Strait about 15 miles from the northern point of the Australian main-
land. Here the tide has a mean range of over 3 feet, and high water
comes about the same time day after day. Low water occurs 6 hours
later, also at the same time each day.

To summarize briefly, we have noted that the tide-producing forces
of the sun and the moon bring about the rise and fall of the sea waters
of the earth; and that the response of the waters in the various ocean
basins, modified by the hydrographic features and their geographic
locations in those basins, results in the varieties of the tide that we
observe along the coasts and in the bays, harbors, and seaports of the
world.

Engineering and Pure Science’

By W. F. G. Swann

Director, Bartol Research Foundation
Franklin Institute, Swarthmore, Pa.

I wave often wondered why the cathedrals of medieval times didn’t
fall down. If I enter one of these edifices I feel disturbed by a number
of conflicting emotions. I say to myself: “Now, Swann, you are not
an architect, and you do not know anything about building churches.
However, you do know a little bit about the theory of elasticity and
how to calculate the stresses in various structures; you know a little
bit about the things which are fundamental in providing that the
cathedral shall not fall down, and yet, the fellow who designed that
dome did not have any knowledge at all of these matters.” I start
with the feeling that I ought to be able to design a much better dome
than he has, and yet, if somebody sentenced me to this task, and even
if I should, in my own humble way, muddle through the calculation
necessary in my opinion to insure safety, I should never have the
courage to erect the dome until I had talked with some practical engi-
neer and asked him whether he thought that my dome really would
stand up in practice, or tumble down, to my great disappointment and
humiliation.

Now, why didn’t the dome built by that ignorant medieval archi-
tect—who knew nothing about the equations of elasticity, who had no
differential or integral calculus, who had no knowledge of mechanics
and of all the things which it would seem he should have known—why
should his dome stand up, whereas mine would probably fall down?
I feel very humiliated about the matter.

EXPERIENCE VERSUS SCIENCE

In the development of modern technical industry, two partners
are called upon to cooperate—practical experience and what is called
scientific research. Experience is the product of 6,000 years of civil-
ization. Science is the product of 300 years, and in its relation to
industry as a working partner, it is a product of less than 50 years.

- +Reprinted by permission from Physics Today, vol. 4, No. 6, June 1952.
201
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

It is, therefore, not remarkable that this healthy, white-haired Methu-
selah who is Experience looks occasionally with suspicion at the
energetic young upstart who is Science. Nor is it remarkable that
the young upstart, looking back at his partner, regards him occasion-
ally as a stubborn old fogey, hidebound in his ways, and extolling
continually the merits of horse sense. However, it has to be admitted
that the old fogey seems fairly prosperous, in spite of the ancient
cut of his clothes; and moreover, that he has much money in the bank
which he has accumulated as the result of his methods and which—
humiliating thought—provides in one way or the other much of the
daily bread of the young scientist. How shall we appraise the rela-
tive merits of these partners? How can we plan for their most
successful cooperation? How can we bring the old fellow to realize
to the full the value which lies in what sometimes seem to be the
high-falutin, impracticable activities of the youngster? Is there any-
thing of value in those methods of horse sense, of cut and try, of long
experience, which can be recommended to the youngster as things to
be valued? And if so, how and in what form can we persuade the
youngster to utilize this value?

I picture an old violinist, highly skilled in his art, but devoid of
scientific knowledge. There comes to him a young physicist who
says: “My friend, I have been watching you play that instrument
and I am going to tell you how to play it better, for I am a student
of acoustics and know all about the laws of sound.” “Very well,”
says the old violinist, “here is the violin—play it.” “Oh no,” says
the young physicist, “I would not wish to use that instrument at all.
It is, indeed, a very stupid instrument, with no scientific background.
It is strung with a cat’s inside and played with a horse’s tail. It has
a form dictated by no scientific principles and the only information
I have been able to find with regard to it is to the effect that the form
had something to do with the supposed figure of the Virgin Mary.
I would like to study a very simple case first.” And so our young
physicist suspends a simple stretched string between two fixed points
in space and he discusses all the various modes of vibration. He
discusses how the frequency of vibration determines the pitch, how
the overtones determine the quality, and so forth. The old violinist,
much impressed but much bewildered, says: “All right, here is the
bow. Now play it.” On drawing the bow across the string, the old
violinist hears nothing, for we all know that a string so mounted
would emit practically no sound at all. The old violinist complains
that he cannot hear anything, but the young physicist feels that it
is very unreasonable of him to insist upon what he deems the relatively
minor matter of hearing something and proceeds to argue that it is
much better to understand what you do not hear than to hear what

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 203

you do not understand. But the old violinist is sad about this matter
and goes away a little comforted by the fact that although he may
not know what he is doing, he knows how to do it.

THE SCIENTIFIC APPROACH

And so it is characteristic of the ways of the scientific attack to take
a simplified problem and, by studying that thoroughly, hope that one
may proceed to understand and control the complex problem. In the
field where the man of science has had the matter in hand from the
beginning, this procedure has been very successful. Thus, he started
with pure academic interest to inquire why electricity was emitted
from hot wires in a vacuum. These experiments led to others and
ultimately to the thermionic vacuum tube and to the whole science of
electronics. In this development, the physicist had everything under
control from the beginning. There were other matters starting in the
realm of pure academic interest which became welded with the matters
pertaining to the discharge of electricity from hot wires. All these
infants, born more or less in isolation and with no great individual
prospects, were brought together by the man of science, who nurtured
their development, watched over their progress, marshaled them from
time to time into more efficient groups as regards their potentialities,
until finally we had in the world of today radio, television, and a
hundred other things whose operations, if viewed for the first time,
would seem so complicated, so unrelated, and so miraculous that no
brain would have the courage to interpret them. If we could im-
agine some supergenius of the inventor kind who, by a rule of thumb
and horse sense—it would have to be a very special kind of a horse—
had arrived where we have arrived today in the science of electronics,
but without knowledge of the basic fundamentals pertaining to the
subject, and had presented us with the various pieces of equipment,
with sales bulletins telling us how to turn on the switches to set it in
operation, we would have a marvelous time for a week; and even if
the apparatus continued to function for longer, I venture to say that
further improvement in its operation would take place very slowly
indeed, if at all.

INVENTORS

As distinct from the procedure of the conventional man of science,
one has that of the inventor. Frequently the inventor is very hazy
as regards the fundamental principles that control the phenomena
with which he deals. In a certain sense, this is an advantage to him
in his method of working because he tends to compensate for his lack
of power as regards rigidity of prediction by the utilization of knowl-
edge of an enormous number of experimental facts and processes which
he combines in all sorts of ways in search of the end he desires. There
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

is apt to be a high mortality in the expected achievement; but valuable
end products frequently appear, even when, in the light of a strict
appraisal of affairs as represented by the scientific knowledge of the
day, it would seem that they never should have appeared.

The inventor walks in a territory which the man of science has
mapped out in regions of assured fertility, dubious fertility, and
almost certain sterility. The man of science is inclined to conserve
his efforts by walking in the rather limited realm of assured fertility,
but the inventor walks with courage everywhere. He sees a pasture
which he thinks has promise. The physicist would explain to him
that his reasons for expecting something from that region are invalid,
and in 90 percent of the cases they are, but the inventor walks never-
theless. He walks persistently, so that every now and again he finds
some spot which is rich in content, not perhaps for the reasons that
he expected it to be, but for other reasons of which he may be only
partially conscious. If we should trace these reasons to their origin,
they might constitute a set of heterogeneous associations with no very
obvious logical connection, but which, through the scheme of profound
regularity inherent in nature, have conspired to give a suggestion
which is fruitful in spite of the very dubious foundations upon which
the suggestion is made.

It is characteristic of one who concerns himself almost exclusively
with the practical needs of a science or art that wide experience should
supplement in considerable degree refinement of exact prediction.
I have been accustomed to state as my experience that when there
is a controversy between an artist—a musician, for example—and a
man of science in relation to something which concerns the actual
practice of the art, then in 90 percent of the cases the artist is right
and the man of science is wrong. However, the situation does not
end here, because unfortunately the artist proceeds to give the reasons
for what he says. Then everything that he says is wrong and the
man of science has merely to sit back and pull him up at the end of
each sentence, leaving him completely bewildered, but unconvinced
nevertheless.

There was a celebrated inventor whose employees hung upon the
walls of his laboratory a placard which stated: “The poor fool didn’t
know enough to know that it couldn’t be done, so he went ahead and
did it.” You know, the telephone never should have worked. Think
of the impossible situation with which we are presented in this
device. Think of the cables that carry the telephone current in the
form of electrons. In the absence of the current, the electrons are
moving in all directions. As many are moving from left to right as
are moving from right to left; and the nothingness which is there
is composed of two equal and opposite halves, about a million million

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 205

amperes per square centimeter in the one direction and a million mil-
lion amperes per square centimeter in the other direction. The tele-
phone current constitutes an upsetting of the balance to the extent
of one-hundredth of a millionth of an ampere per square centimeter,
or about one part in a hundred million million million. Then if
this one part in a hundred million million million is at fault by one
part in a thousand, we ring up the telephone company and complain
that the quality of the speech is faulty.

In the realm of pure experience, one has frequently started out with
something which is very complicated at the beginning. By trying
this and that, one has arrived at a number of procedures which are
not unrelated, which in some cases are redundant, and which in others
are even inconsistent with one another, and yet, through the process
of trial and error and much lapse of time, there has resulted a set of
operations and procedures that work in reasonably satisfactory man-
ner. That which we call understanding is now much less fundamen-
tal and, indeed, less powerful than the understanding of the scientist,
but is in some sense effective. Our old violinist can certainly play his
instrument and make it sound good. He tells his student to imbue his
soul with the spirit of good tone and good tone will come from the
instrument. The student tries to follow this advice. He does a lot of
wrong things and the master lambastes him continually with all sorts
of other criticisms. He tells him that he slouches too much when he
plays—that he is lazy—that unless he holds his bow more firmly the
spirit of tone in his soul cannot permeate through to the instrument.
And so, as a result of a lot of trials and errors and of doing this and
that, sometimes consciously and sometimes unconsciously, the student
succeeds in producing the good tone. Possibly he still retains the
feeling that his soul produced the tone, and it does no harm if he
should think that, so long as the idea in its implementation is supple-
mented, consciously or unconsciously, by all that heterogeneous con-
glomeration of other things which really conspire to produce the
ultimate end.

THE NATURE OF PHYSICAL LAWS

As a physicist I seek a logical framework of knowledge in which all
parts of my science are related in unambiguous ways. I am unhappy
about two different criteria bearing upon the same subject unless I can
understand clearly whether they are independent or related.

And yet, out of this completely formulated system of laws which
represents my ideal, I could obviously pick certain isolated elements
and put them into forms which would stand by themselves and which
would hide their relationship. These isolated elements could well
serve as a useful guide to the artisan or general practical man even
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

though the language appropriate to their more complete setting in the
fundamental frame might be unintelligible to them. We see this
kind of thing happening in almost every branch of physics that finds a
utilitarian service.

Of course, the reason for this state of affairs lies in the fact that the
fundamental laws frequently express their consequences in forms
which are not conveniently adaptable to problems. However, it is
possible to dress them up in different kinds of clothes suitable to the
various realms in which they have to function, and sometimes the
clothes are so different that it is hard to recognize in them the same
individual. However, from the practical standpoint, this existence
of different forms of raiment is not to be decried, however much it
may irritate the master of fundamentals to see his beloved concepts
so variously represented. Occasionally the whole success of utiliza-
tion of the concepts depends upon the raiment. An example is to be
found in a problem which, for a considerable time, taxed the genius of
the great Newton. This problem concerned the proof of the fact
that a spherically symmetrical distribution of matter obeying the law
of inverse squares acts, at external points, as though all the matter
were concentrated at the center. By the utilization of Gauss’s theorem,
it is possible to prove this result, which baffled the great Newton for so
long, and to write the proof on the area of a postage stamp; yet Gauss’s
theorem is no more than the law of inverse squares garbed in such a
form as to make it particularly at home in the realm of spherical
symmetry.

And so, in meditating upon our ancient and medieval architects,
I have to believe that, though unconscious of the general fundamental
laws, they nevertheless sensed many things which were true and were
able to mold them into a frame of procedure which was sufficiently
concrete and self-consistent to serve as a guide in their operations.
We should feel very insecure in this frame, fearing that something
had been forgotten, unless we could see the elements of that frame as
consistent parts of the more complete whole. However, there is an-
other respect in which the rule-of-thumb procedure has something to
be said for it. Many problems which are controlled by fundamentals
perfectly well known to us are incapable of solution by known mathe-
matical procedures and we are driven to illustrate the matter by appeal
to simplified cases. If I tap a table with my finger, I say that I
understand in a general way how the vibrations which ensue come
about. I think of those interactions of elasticity and inertia which
are fundamental to the solution of the problem. I can even write
down the differential equations which control the solutions, and yet
no mathematician on earth is clever enough to work out the solution
for this particular case.

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 207

Now, frequently, the rule-of-thumb precedure, while deficient in
the obviousness of its relation to fundamentals, is apt to take care
of complications in circumstances which might be almost infinitely
difficult for any mathematician to take care of by trying to solve
for the consequences of the fundamentals. Thus, if an authority on
acoustics should endeavor to construct a violin without collaboration
with an exponent of that craft, I doubt that he would produce as
good a violin as Stradivari. Moreover, I rather surmise that if
Antonio Stradivari and Nicolo Amati came to life today and held
a discussion with the great violinmakers of our epoch, the discussion
would be much more harmonious than would one between engineers of
these periods.

When the physicist is presented with a complex situation, where
the complexity has not grown under his own guiding hand, he may feel
temporarily at a loss to know where to begin the attack upon his prob-
lem. His standard method of procedure is to take the simple, under-
stand it thoroughly, and build up from it the complex. When he
cannot start with the simple, his natural desire would be to peer
through the complex in the hope of finding the simple as the origin
of it all in the background, as one might suppose a person, suddenly
coming upon a television apparatus, seeking to peer through the com-
plexity of operation down to those fundamentals which constituted
the experiment of 40 years ago. Having found the fundamentals in
this way, he would like to watch the offspring of these fundamentals
develop through themselves, their children, and their grandchildren,
to the television set which is before him. In this way, he would feel
that he could understand the operation of the set and be in a position
to keep it in order and possibly improve it.

However, when the complex is presented to the physicist, he is faced
with several difficulties. In the first place, the complex is apt to be
made up of a heterogeneous mixture of methods and principles, some
of dubious relevance and some even inconsistent. Or even, if irrel-
evancy and inconsistency are absent, the complexity of the situation
may be such that it is very difficult, if not humanly impossible, to trace
matters back to their fundamentals. One then has to deal with em-
pirically discovered laws which one must believe to have their origin
in more fundamental laws, although he may not be able to trace that
origin. Such empirical laws are represented in perhaps their nearest
approach to their fundamentals by the ordinary laws of stress and
strain applicable in the theory of elasticity. In a vein farther re-
moved from the fundamentals one has such empirical regularities as
have dictated the general shape and method of construction of a violin.

The fact is that the solution of a problem involves two parts, the
fundamental laws which control all problems of the class studied,
and the features (boundary conditions) which determine the particu-
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

lar case in which we are interested. Sometimes the contribution of
the latter to the features which interest us is simple and the problem
is one for exact solution by the theoretical physicist. Sometimes the
said contribution is complicated, but important, and the solution be-
comes more the problem of him who applies approximate, or even
rule-of-thumb, methods.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF METHODS OF THOUGHT

It is of interest to inquire whether the fundamentals of thinking
are necessarily very different today from what they were in past ages.
In this connection, it is perhaps not without interest to transport one-
self in imagination to the time of Galileo and inquire as to the nature
of the thinking of those days. Galileo wrote a book called Zwo New
Sciences, in which he presents his ideas in the form of a supposed dis-
cussion between three interlocutors, Salviati, who represents himself,
Sagredo, and Simplicio.

Again and again in these discourses we see the mind of Galileo
doing the same kind of thinking that a good experimental physicist or,
for that matter, a good mathematical physicist does in the laboratory
today, and we cannot question the fact that if Galileo, with all that
he had and no more than he had 300 years ago, were planted in one
of our laboratories today, he would be an outstanding physicist in the
problems which are of interest to us today.

In this general epoch, we see the birth of Hooke’s law on the pro-
portionality between stress and strain, and we see the accumulation
of those fundamentals going back even to far earlier days, which
constitute the basic principles upon which the present engineering
science is based. However, I think it safe to say that, by and large,
we must regard the pre-Newtonian era as one in which the laws avail-
able, such as they were, were of an empirical kind, and even in the later
epochs, extending almost to the present time, the fundamental laws
were empirical. The growth of the power of mathematical physics,
brought about by the invention of the calculus and by the develop-
ments of Newton, Lagrange, and others, enabled mankind to extract
in richer form the more complete consequences of the empirical laws
of hydrostatics, elasticity, dynamics, and so forth, and, indeed, until
the advent of the electrical age scientific attention was devoted largely
to the unraveling of the consequences of such laws. It is true that in
the field of optics there were primitive attempts at theories devised to
give a richer content to such empirical laws as existed in that field.
Such attempts, however, were guided largely by the ideas of elasticity
and inertia characteristic of the mechanical domain.

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 209
THE SEARCH FOR REALITY

The advent of the electrical era, initiated primarily by Faraday,
Henry, Ampére, Oersted, etc., a little more than 100 years ago, found
its formal development in the work of Clark Maxwell. The man of
science of the day was mechanically minded and sought to understand
all things in terms of the thoughts appropriate to elastic waves in
solids and fluids. Maxwell’s theory was an almost insurmountable
stumbling block, inviting, as it did, concepts which were ultra-abstract
in terms of the thinking of the day. The matter is illustrated by a
comment in Sir Arthur Schuster’s Theory of Optics, written as late as
1904, and it must be remembered that Schuster was one of the world’s
high priests of natural philosophy in that epoch. He writes: “The
study of physics must be based on a knowledge of mechanics, and the
problem of light will only be solved when we have discovered the
mechanical properties of the ether.” Writing in another place on
Maxwell’s equations, he remarks: “The fact that this evasive school of
philosophy has received some countenance from the writings of
Heinrich Hertz renders it all the more necessary that it should be
treated seriously and resisted strenuously.”

The search for reality in which to frame the new thoughts born
of electrodynamics so persistent at that time has changed consider-
ably in its aims as the years have rolled by. In my student and early
teaching days it was the custom, following the lead of Maxwell and
his school, to seek an explanation of electrodynamic phenomena on
purely dynamical bases. If we wanted to make somebody under-
stand a circuit with self-induction, capacity, and resistance, we would
refer to a ball vibrating in a viscous fluid at the end of a spring.
We would say: “Now the self-induction in this circuit is like that
mass on the end of the spring. This capacity itself is like that spring.
The electrical resistance of the wire is analogous to the viscosity of
the liquid, and so forth.” By thinking of the spring and ball, which
we of the older generation felt we understood more or less, we en-
deavored to accommodate our thinking so as to understand the elec-
trical problem. Today all this appears to be changed. At an early
age youngsters start to play with radios and to acquire quite a little
knowledge concerned with the essentials of their operation. This
fact has reversed the whole situation as regards reality in the mind
of youth, and the youngster of today and the older youngsters who
are doing research in our laboratories seek to understand dynamics
by showing that it is like electrodynamics. And if the youngster
wishes to understand how a ball bobs up and down on the end of a
spring when immersed in oil, he is apt to say: “Now, this weight is
just like that inductance. The spring is like the capacity, the vis-
cosity of the fluid is like the resistance of the wire. Now, you know
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

that the electrical circuit will oscillate; and in a similar kind of way,
the ball and spring oscillate. You know that if the electrical circuit
is stimulated by an external force of frequency equal to its own, it
will resonate and build up a big amplitude; and for exactly similar
reasons, the ball on the end of the spring builds up an amplitude
when subjected to an external force which harmonizes with the system
in frequency. Thus, since you understand all about the nature of
the electrical oscillations of the circuit, you ought to be able to stim-
ulate your brains to the point of understanding why and how a ball
bobs up and down on the end of a spring in oil.”

No longer does the engineer seek to understand his electrical prob-
lems through mechanical ones, but when he gets a mechanical problem,
the first thing he does is to seek the electrical analogue and think in
terms of that—he seeks the equivalent electrical circuit. And so this
concept, reality, is indeed like a chameleon, changing its color to
harmonize with the setting of its time. Ah! reality, what an elusive
thing it is and how its search has tormented mankind from time
immemorial. Reality, that will-o’-the-wisp of philosophy! You may
think you have it in your hand but find that you have merely the
shadow of something else. You will pursue that something else;
you will clutch it, and again it will feel real until you find that your
consciousness of its touch is no more than the tingle of your own
blood as your hands clasp upon it. Reality is the most alluring of
all courtesans, for she makes herself what you would have her at the
moment; but she is no rock on which to anchor your soul, for her
substance is of the stuff of shadows; she has no existence outside
your own dreams and is oft no more than the reflection of your own
thoughts shining upon the face of nature.

The concepts which one is willing to accept into his category of
thinking and to regard as natural without further inquiry as to their
origin change with the epoch, and today the average mathematical
physicist at any rate encounters no obstacle in classical electro-
dynamics. Indeed, he would be very content and feel that he had a
very understandable picture of nature if all atomic phenomena could
be brought into a picture in which classical electrodynamics was
the only controller of that picture. Today, however, he finds him-
self driven to new realms of abstraction in understanding the atom.
If he had been forced into these realms 100 years ago, he probably
would have given up and have felt that if he were to have no further
security in the matter of what I might call common-sense understand-
ableness, he might as well go back another couple of hundred years
and join with the forces of the astrologers or the alchemists. How-
ever, realizing what has happened to his mental accommodation in the
past, first through Newtonian dynamics—which was by no means a

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 211

concretely understandable matter in its day—through electrodynamics,
he is now more or less content to adapt himself to any new philosophy
which fits the facts and he is willing to forego too much desire for
understandability in terms of horse sense.

THE ORIGIN OF PERIODS OF STAGNATION

Perhaps I may here make a slight digression in relation to the
general significance of scientific theories. The matter has a bearing
upon that cycle of depression in science in which, every now and
again, we seem to come to the conclusion that everything worth while
has been done and nothing remains but to cull over the old material.
What is the reason for this condition of affairs? I think the reason
is not far to seek. When a new set of phenomena reveal themselves,
the man of science seeks to correlate these phenomena in the form of
a theory. Sometimes in the formulation of the postulates of the
theory there are details which are artificial to him, there are starting
points which seem unreal, so the theory is at first abstract and few
understand it. To the layman, in fact, some of the postulates of the
theory may seem to be nonsense. However, the working purpose of
the theory is not primarily to give pictorial satisfaction to the lay
mind, but rather to correlate the phenomena which it concerns. The
theory is a means by which, through the process of saying few
things, we may deduce many as a consequence. Having molded the
theory so as to comprehend all the newly discovered phenomena, the
theory of itself starts to predict other phenomena; and it is well
worth while to look for these phenomena. And so there comes a
period in which science devotes itself to verifying the predictions
of the theory and tracing its consequences to their limit. In the olden
days, this took a long time. In modern times it has taken increas-
ingly shorter and shorter periods, as the would-be Ph. D.’s and their
mentors stalk around like roaring lions seeking something to measure.
In any case, before very long everything that the theory suggests as
an object of measurement has been measured and every phenomenon
which it has predicted has been found, if it is a good theory. By
this time, the theory has acquired a good deal of prestige. It
has been responsible for suggesting many new discoveries. Those pos-
tulates and premises in the theory which were a little repugnant to us
in the beginning have become more natural and reasonable in our
eyes. They sit well in the realm peopled by the interesting phenom-
ena they have brought into it. They, the nonsense of yesterday, have
become the common sense of today. And now, the theory, having
grown old in a useful life, becomes rather like a conventional old
gentleman who, radical in his youth, has become conservative with
age, who now hates to see anything other than what he has been
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

accustomed to, and who is able to exert great influence by virtue ot
the respect in which he is held through his good deeds of the past.
Radical in his youth, he has become extremely conservative in his
own radicalness. The old theory, having in its active youth exhausted
all its potentialities in saying: “Do this, and thou shalt find that,”
now starts to adopt a negative attitude in saying: “It is not worth
while to do such and such, because it is guaranteed beforehand that
you will find nothing if you do.” “To find anything,” says the old
theory, “would constitute nonsense in my creed, and would be very
humiliating to me. It would be contrary to common sense, the new
common sense of my era.” And so the old theory now becomes as
declamatic in saying that certain things are impossible, as before
it was declamatic in holding that other things must occur. It is for
this reason that in the autumn of the life of some far-reaching theory
of physical phenomena, science seems to have come to an end. The
phenomena divide themselves into two categories: first, those which
are known or are such obvious consequences of the known facts, or of
the theory correlating them, that it does not seem worth while to
investigate them further; and secondly, those which look as though
they are probably embraced by the theory but in a form beset with such
complications of calculations as would render the dissection of their
whole story beyond the power of man. Asa result of this, there seems
nothing more to do; research seems to have come to an end and
science to be dead. Then some irrepressible individual discovers
a phenomenon which goes violently contrary to the theory. After
due castigation by the old gentlemen, in the form of the devotees
of the theory, the results of the young upstart are confirmed by others
and have to be accepted. The theory must then be remolded or
possibly completely rebuilt so as to include the new facts. In this
rebuilt theory, much that before seemed impossible is now rendered
likely. Suggestions which would have been dismissed as impossible
with the briefest thought in the light of the old theory, have a
reasonable place in the realm of possibilities of the new theory. And
again common sense grumbles at having to readjust itself to a new
form. In his proper domain, common sense is a counselor of price-
less value; and it is because he justly inspires such confidence in that
domain that he becomes the most dangerous of deceivers of those who
seek his guidance outside of it. For “common sense” seeks to pin
all thoughts of the new to the fabric of the old, and so, ofttimes, it
distorts the meaning of the new by destroying that form which was
inherent in its own right, and for no purpose other than to fit it to a
pattern in which it has no place. The result is a bizarre and shapeless
thing out of harmony with the form into which it has been forced,
and out of harmony with the form which was its own. Common

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 213

sense in natural philosophy repatterns itself from age to age. At
each stage of its development it seeks to generalize the ideas born of
the experience of the immediate past and to weld them into bonds
which sometimes restrain the future. Thus, the breeders of error in
the epoch to come are sometimes the truths of the days which have
gone. So beware how you extol too much the virtues of good old
horse sense, for I fear that, in the last analysis, horse sense is the
kind of sense that a horse has.

I think with some regret of many experiments which in my youth
occurred to me as worthy of being tried, but which on further medita-
tion I failed to perform because in terms of common sense, as exempli-
fied by the theories of the day, they seemed destined to give trivial
results. Sometimes I wish that I had not thought so much and had
done the experiments in any case, for in later years many of these ex-
periments have been done and have given results of value, results which
are harmonious in the frame of thought of today, however strange
they would have appeared in the light of our concepts of 40 years ago.
If a proposed experiment lies far within the boundaries of established
facts and theories and would, according to their diagnosis, give a
perfectly clear-cut result, I do not deem it worth while to do the
experiment. If someone comes with a scheme for perpetual motion
involving the utilization of ordinary machinery and the like, I give
him but little attention. If he claims that, since the experiment has
never been done, one cannot predict with surety what result it would
give, I have to agree with him, as I would also agree with him if he
claimed that the sun might not rise tomorrow morning. I then
answer to the effect that while no one can predict the result of an
untried experiment, the chance of his perpetual motion experiment
giving a valuable result is, in my judgment, so small that we should
not be justified in discontinuing the other experiments which we are
doing in its favor. If, however, I am confronted with an experiment
which lies near the horizon between the known and the unknown,
I prefer to give it the benefit of the doubt; for it is such boundary
dwellers as these that establish connection with the knowledge of to-
day and that of tomorrow.

EMPIRICISM

And now perhaps it will be well if I get back to what is supposed
to be the main theme of this discourse, the relation of engineering
to physics.

In speaking of the empiricism I have perhaps implied that today
we have something better than empiricism. In the last analysis, this
is not true. All our laws of nature are empirical. However, the
desire of the theoretical physicist is to limit empiricism in the sense
that from the fewest number of empirical starting points he can
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

deduce the richest law content. His aim is to take what was formerly
half a dozen apparently unrelated empirical statements and represent
them all as a consequence of perhaps two empirical statements.

It is perhaps well, in this connection, to recognize two degrees of
empiricism. There is the empiricism characteristic of the situation
up to and including atomic processes, and there is the empiricism of
the correlation of the atomic processes themselves, which second form
of empiricism most physicists would not be willing to count as empiri-
cism at all, but as a getting down to the last elements of understanding.

Taking the first realm of empiricism, however, the complete story
of the content of a law is, as I have remarked, contained in mathemati-
cal form, which it is not easy to simplify to a form applicable to all
cases. However, the practical need of getting matters down to a
degree which enables a large number of people to use the principle
results in seeking some kind of simplification which is sufficient to
cover a fairly wide realm of practical experience. Here the laboratory
man or the practical engineer takes hold, and after a time his intuitions
become sharpened so that he adopts a kind of thinking which simulates
a more exact frame of thinking but is, as it were, a self-contained set
of laws of itsown. One has an example of this in matters pertaining to
electrical circuits where, provided that the wavelength of any oscilla-
tions concerned in the circuits is long compared with the dimensions
of the circuit, we can think in terms of a certain type of simplification.
There grow the concepts of capacity, inductance, impedance, to which
the practical engineer, stimulated perhaps by rivalry with the medical
profession, feels the urge to add another number of Godforsaken words,
such as admittance, transconductance, etc. In this connection, I have
thought of a new term, “abuttance.” Although this may seem like the
doctor’s discovery of a “cure” for which there is no disease, I present
it to the radio engineers in the hope that they will find a meaning for it.

In terms of the simplified laws, the practical man proceeds to manip-
ulate these various quantities and to become very clever at predicting
what will happen in this case and in that. Occasionally, however,
situations arise in which the simplified laws no longer are adequate.
The practical man does something about this by making some kind of
correction as far as possible in the language of his old formulation.
As knowledge advances, however, more and more of such cases arise
and the patches on the patched-up framework become more obvious
than the framework itself.

And now, superposed upon all that I have spoken of so far, which
has concerned itself for the most part with what we may call the
classical physics of matter in bull, we have, in the last few years,
encountered a realm in which the fundamentals of physics are no
longer diluted so as to show their effects only as averaged quantities—

ENGINEERING AND PURE SCIENCE—SWANN 215

as temperatures—as pressures—as elasticity, etc. The advent of elec-
tronic physics has brought us down to the properties of the atomic
particles themselves. In the photoelectric cell, in the photomultiplier,
in the radio vacuum tube, and a dozen similar devices, the matters
which determine successful operation are things which can be under-
stood only in terms of the fundamental processes of nature or, at any
rate, I think it would be safe to say that it is not much more difficult
to understand them in these terms than to understand them in terms
of some artificial scheme of simplification devised because one has
learned to expect simplification in the past and to hope for it in the
future.

And then, as the realms of empiricism in the ordinary properties of
matter have become exhausted, the new realms of enlightenment fol-
lowing our modern picture of the structure of solids have tempted us
to hope that, even here, the barrier of knowledge need not be fixed by
the laws of empiricism or, if we like, by an extrapolation of the past,
but rather by the possibility of prediction in relation to what we know
from the atomic structure of matter itself.

It is a matter of great importance to understand what governs the
strength of materials, what governs the dependence of this strength
upon temperature, particularly in the light of modern requirements
in high temperature operation such as is encountered in turbines. The
atomic picture is very illuminating in this field and can, in many cases,
point the way to success, whereas to achieve that success by what we
may call the Edisonian method of multitudinous trials would involve
untold expenditure of time and effort. We have not reached the stage
at which we can design substances of any desired characteristics, but
we have reached the stage at which our knowledge of atomic physics
provides us with very good hunches as to courses of procedure which
have a good chance of being successful. Of course, one of the most
spectacular of all such predictions is that involved in the act of man
in creating an entirely new element, plutonium, in connection with
his work on atomic energy.

Now, in order to manipulate atomic properties successfully, it is
necessary to think in terms of atomic laws, and such laws are rather
artificial to the thinking of the conventional metallurgist. However,
in the last analysis, they are really no more artificial than the laws
with which he has become familiar. It is for the future to season the
younger generation with a broader sensitivity to the forms of nature’s
laws, so that he may not, forever, stay with his feet bound in the mud
of classical antiquity of which he has already exhausted most of the
good essence. It is necessary to bring him to a stage where he is not
limited to looking at the new fields from afar but is enabled to walk
in them with confidence, and pluck such good fruit as comes his way.

236639—53——15
Man’s Synthetic Future’

By Rocer ApaMs

Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois

THE PRESENT UNCERTAINTIES facing the peoples of the world, and
the startling discoveries in science during the past few decades, have
stimulated many to prognosticate about the future. Numerous and
various forecasts have been made as to national groupings, forms of
government, celestial transportation, sources of food, new building
materials, and modes of living. Some predict communization of the
world, others that there will be internal revolutions against commu-
nism and fascism, bringing about the return of freedom of speech and
action to all people.

William J. Hale forecast the gradual regroupings of nations into
four units, each of which would embrace peoples of more or less the
same biological traits, but which would not be influenced by common
languages and customs. The groupings would be based on physical,
chemical, and biological considerations in areas which never lack self-
sufficiency of any type. ‘The smaller nations, technologically unsuited
to a future in a strictly chemical world, would have to be grouped
with the greater powers, which through two centuries have shown an
innate ability to advance against all opposition.

The line may not yet be forming for the first trip to the planets,
but the Hayden Planetarium of the American Museum of Natural
History is accepting reservations for the first interplanetary flights.
The rough timetable assumes rocket ships that will reach the moon in
91% hours, Mars in 75 days, and Jupiter in 666 days. This may lead to
new terms in timetables when a trip is almost two years in duration.
The dining compartments will necessarily be enormous in size, even
if food concentrates are used, and even if it be assumed that people
will require less food under gravity-free conditions. Perhaps there
will be celestially anchored hot-dog stands along the way.

Some rocket engineers have boldly predicted space flights within
the next decade. Many, many decades seem more likely before rocket

1 Based on the address of the retiring president, delivered at the annual meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, December 28, 1951, Philadelphia,
Pa. Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 115, No. 2981, February 15, 1952.

217
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

ships will be built that will accelerate to the 25,000 miles per hour
required to escape from the earth’s gravity. Moreover, it is still to
be determined what will happen to body functions under gravity-free
conditions, and how human beings may be protected in an oxygenized,
pressurized ship when the body has no weight and one can lift a
sledge hammer quite as easily as a pencil. These illusions are no
more astounding in our day than those of one hundred years ago
when, in John T. Trowbridge’s Darius Green and His Flying M achine,

Darius was clearly of the opinion
That the air is also man’s dominion,

and J. H. Yates wrote,

I have seen so much on my pilgrimages through my three-score years and ten
That I wouldn’t be surprised to see a railroad in the air,
Ora Yankee ina flyin’ ship a-goin’ most anywhere.

Predictions of this sort do not fall within the purview of the
chemist, but there is a rapidly growing number of science-fiction
writers who are creating fanciful plots that may someday come true.

My remarks will be based on projecting the chemical discoveries of
the past to logical achievements in the future. One hundred years
ago all materials used by man were derived directly from natural
sources—plants, animals, and minerals. The chemist has, through the
past six decades, so perfected his knowledge of the intricacies of
molecules through physical and chemical methods that he is now
able to determine the patterns in which the atoms are combined in
nature’s substances. Indeed he is able to assemble atoms according to
his own design and thus produce many of these same substances by
synthesis. Moreover, he has discovered how to create new, better, and
cheaper compounds based on a knowledge of natural products.

One of the first industries transformed by chemistry was dye manu-
facturing, an industry that is now 99 percent synthetic. In a second
field, drugs and medicinals are over 75 percent of synthetic origin.
Natural gums and resins at present account for only 5 percent of the
2.3 million pounds of plastics produced in the United States last year.
More than half the 500 million gallons of paint used annually are
based on synthetic products. Over 50 percent of today’s rubber is
synthetic, and over 20 percent of the textiles. The field of synthetic
detergents has had a phenomenal growth, until more than one bil-
lion pounds are produced annually. This figure is still well below
the amount of soap consumed.

During World War I we became conscious of shortages of raw and
finished materials, especially chemicals; of shortages of certain foods
and of the necessity for substitutes. During World War IT, and now
during the rearmament period, the shortages are primarily in raw
materials. Wenormally consider that the United States has abundant

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 219

resources, yet the Government lists 167 strategic items that must be
imported. Stockpiling by the Government of materials essential to
both war and peace, but not indigenous to the United States or found
here in less than the required quantities, has resulted in artificial price
increases.

Let us consider for a moment our mineral supplies. The most
widely distributed metals are iron, aluminum, magnesium, and ti-
tanium. They are available in amounts sufficient to supply the world’s
needs for hundreds of years. Aluminum and its alloys will continue
to replace steel and other metals in even larger measure than in recent
years. Magnesium, a very light metal, has found many uses, espe-
cially in alloys, but certain of its properties would appear to limit its
extensive industrial application. Titanium, about which much has
been heard in recent months, is fourth in abundance of all metals, and
its ores are widespread over the world. It is truly the metal with an
attractive future. Only half as heavy as steel, it is, in a pure state,
ductile, very significantly heat- and chemical-resistant, and readily
forms valuable alloys. It does not corrode even in sea water. For
jet engines it isideal. Its applications would be exceedingly numerous
were it not for the cost. Titanium dioxide, a common derivative,
which can be obtained readily from the native ore, is familiar as a
superior white pigment for outdoor house paints and in finely divided
form as a delustrant for rayon and nylon. The cheap production of
pure titanium metal, however, has baffled the efforts of chemists and
metallurgists for years. The annual supply of the metal has been only
a few hundred tons, and it has sold at a price of $10 to $20 or more
per pound, thus restricting its use to items where properties are all
important and cost is a small factor. But now the Government is
supporting the construction of plants that will provide an annual
production of several thousand tons to be used primarily for military
purposes. The cost of production, even on the larger scale contem-
plated, is likely to bring the price down to not less than $5.00 a pound,
a figure much too high for general industrial application. One of
the liveliest chemical problems today is the attempt to discover a
cheaper way of obtaining pure titanium metal from its ores. When
solved, several of the metals now considered so essential for certain
steels and alloys will be in less demand.

Proved mineral deposits of all ores of less common metals, such as
copper, lead, zinc, manganese, chromium, tungsten, tin, and others,
would appear to have a limited life. There is, however, still much
territory on earth that has not been prospected, and there still exists
the possibility of mineral deposits being found deep in the earth or
under lakes and seas. It has been reported that under the lakes in
central Finland rich bodies of ore have recently been discovered. Per-
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

haps the future supplies are under water or in the frozen regions of
the Poles.

There is a fantastically large source of chemicals hardly touched at
present in sea water. The amounts of chemicals in sea water have
from time to time been published, but I venture to repeat them. A
cubic mile of sea water contains 143,000,000 tons of sodium chloride,
more than 300,000 tons of bromine, and over 5,000,000 tons of mag-
nesium. <A host of other metals are present in lesser amounts. When
it is considered that there are over 300,000,000 cubic miles of sea water,
the potential supply of metals and salts is staggering. At present,
sea water is a source of salt in some countries and an economic source
of magnesium and bromine in the United States. The future chemist
and engineer will discover a practical method of recovering many of
the other minerals for commercial use. Paraphrasing Longfellow—

Would’st thou, so the chemist questioned,
Learn the secret of the seas?

Only those who’re trained in science
Divine the possibilities.

The use of petroleum and natural gas for fuels, and more recently
as raw materials for strategic organic chemicals, has been stupendous.
During the past 25 years, the consumption of petroleum has increased,
on the average, 4 percent a year, and of natural gas 10 percent a year.
The present demand for petroleum has reached a level of 2 billion
barrels a year. The demand for natural gas is 7 billion cubic feet an-
nually, 10 percent of which is consumed in the chemical industry.

As of January 1951, proved reserves of petroleum had been estab-
lished which, on the basis of present annual consumption, would last
for 15 years and those of natural gas 26 to 27 years. More significant,
however, is the fact that in spite of the continuous increased consump-
tion of these products the 1951 reserves substantially exceeded those
of 1950. Exhaustion of supplies has been predicted periodically for
three decades, but still new reserves continue to be discovered, al-
though with greater difficulty and at increased expense. Even if the
supply in the United States decreases more rapidly than elsewhere, the
reserves in foreign lands will be adequate for a long time. From 1859
to 1951, almost a century, about 41 billion barrels of oil have been pro-
duced. All this would not fill a space 1.6 cubic miles in volume. This
is insignificant in relation to the total volume of oil likely still to be
found in the world.

But even when the petroleum is exhausted, huge reserves of coal,
oil shale, and lignite are available. By appropriate processing, the
study of which is well advanced if not yet perfected, these may be con-
verted into gasoline and related products. On the basis of present
consumption, coal, oil shale, and lignite reserves would last 700 or 800

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS PAN

years, but allowing for difficulties of recovery and for increased de-
mand it would appear conservative to estimate they will last for at
least 200 to 300 years. I am willing to prophesy that when the time
of exhaustion arrives scientists will have found substitutes.

Petroleum, originally a source merely of kerosene, then of gasoline
and lubricating oil, has become, along with natural gas, the raw ma-
terial for a host of aliphatic and aromatic chemicals upon which many
of our chemical industries are founded. The magnitude can be real-
ized best by citing that 1.25 billion pounds of butadiene, obtained by an
appropriate cracking process from petroleum, are used annually for
825,000 tons of synthetic rubber. From 31% billion pounds of ethy-
lene, propylene, butylene, and isobutylene, 16 billion pounds of deriv-
atives are made each year. Just a decade or two ago the chemical
industry relied upon coal tar, the volatile liquids obtained when coal
is coked, for many of its raw materials. But with increased use of
petroleum for power, and of natural gas for heating, less coal is being
coked and the supply of chemicals from the coal tar is much smaller
than the demand. Industry has now turned to petroleum for a sub-
stantial proportion of its chemicals for the synthesis of dyes, drugs,
plastics, and fibers.

Rapid mechanization has made search for substances to produce
energy as well as heat one of our prime objectives. A hundred
years ago, it was wood, and now fossil fuels have the attention of
a multitude of technologists. It is difficult to conceive of modern
life without power and heat. In spite of the discovery from year
to year of more reserves of energy-containing materials, the time
before these are exhausted is at most a matter of a few hundred years
and then a new source of energy must be available.

A perpetual supply of energy comes from the sun. How vast it
is compared to the energy-supplying materials on earth may be
realized by a comparison presented in an article by Eugene Ayres.
Suppose that all the coal, lignite, peat, tar sands, crude petroleum,
natural gas, and oil shale that we are likely to produce in the future
on the basis of the most optimistic estimates were collected. Suppose
that all the timber of the world were cut into cordwood. Moreover,
suppose that all the uranium and thorium that are likely ever to be
discovered were purified and made ready for nuclear fission. Sup-
pose now that this fuel were distributed over the face of the earth,
that the sun were suddenly extinguished, and that the fuel were
ignited to give energy at the rate at which we are accustomed to
receive it from the sun—the combustible fuel would be gone in three
days. Nuclear reactions would last a few hours. The energy that
actually reaches the earth from the sun is over 30,000 times that
of all the fuel and water power now used. There is absolutely nothing
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

that can be a competitor of the sun. It is fortunate that we shall
continue to have plenty of solar energy, which, directly or indirectly,
serves to keep the world an attractive place in which to live.

Of the annual land vegetation, only 14 percent is consumed as
food, fuel, lumber, paper, and chemicals. The balance of 86 percent
is returned to the earth to maintain essential biological balance. With
our ever-increasing population, it is doubtful whether the fuel use
of vegetation can be increased to any very great extent.

Sooner or later the inexhaustible supply of energy from the sun
will be used to supplement, or in large measure to replace, energy-
containing materials on earth. Only limited progress has so far
been made. Of the scientists’ approaches for collecting the sun’s
energy several have shown some promise. A popular study has been
that of the single-celled alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa. This plant mul-
tiplies at a rate that appears to be limited only by the carbon dioxide
content of the water. Carbon dioxide in the air amounts to 0.03
percent. It has been found that algae in pans of water 6 inches deep
are capable of absorbing up to 2 percent of the total solar energy
falling on a given area as compared with less than 0.1 percent for
average agriculture. A yield of 15 dry tons per acre has been
realized, which is nearly five times that of the best land growth,
and scientists believe that this yield can be trebled. The Carnegie
Institution has recently reported what is claimed to be the first large-
scale experiments with Chlorella. Whether these algae may be used
directly for cattle or human food, or whether they may be converted
more profitably into chemicals or fuel is a problem for the future.
To provide 1 billion barrels of motor fuel from algae would require
an area of 35,000 square miles, assuming 35 dry tons of algae per acre
could be obtained.

Photosynthesis, the process by which all vegetation is created, is
not well understood. In essence, the plant converts the low-energy
compounds, carbon dioxide and water, to carbohydrates and oxygen
in the presence of chlorophyll. Attempts have been made to replace
chlorophyll by synthetic dyes and inorganic chemicals. It has been
reported that from certain experiments an amount of energy is ab-
sorbed equivalent to that absorbed in the presence of chlorophyll.

The use of glass, sometimes with reflectors, to collect the heat from
the sun shows promise of becoming practical. Energy absorption
seven times as efficient as the most optimistic agricultural proposals
has been claimed. Apparatus is now in use for the heating of water
by the sun.

Phosphors are chemicals that absorb radiant energy and radiate it
after a certain length of time. Such chemicals might be employed to
absorb energy from the sun during the day and for illuminating pur-

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 223

poses at night. Even though inefficient in this process of absorption
and emission, the amount of the sun’s available energy is so great that
this procedure is not beyond the realm of practical possibility.

New sources of energy, however important they may be, are not an
immediate problem but one for future generations of chemists and en-
gineers. With our present adequate raw materials, let us explore
what discoveries may be expected. “Synthetic polymers” is a term
used by the chemist for the giant molecules he has learned how to
manufacture from very simple ones. Such polymers possess very
different physical properties and relatively inert chemical properties
compared to the substances from which they are derived. Synthetic
rubber, plastics, resins, and fibers fall into this category.

Today’s synthetic rubber is the equivalent of natural rubber when
fabricated into tires for passenger automobiles. Many improvements
in the processing of synthetic rubber for tires have been made in the
past decade, the most interesting of which has been recent—the in-
corporation of a substantial amount of petroleum in the mix. The
resulting tires are claimed to have no inferior qualities, and some
superior ones, to those that are oil-free. Moreover, they can be made
more cheaply, and a substantial amount of raw rubber is conserved.
A synthetic rubber suitable for heavy-duty tires on trucks, busses,
and other large vehicles has yet to be found. Present synthetic rub-
ber tires when used for this purpose are susceptible to a heat build-up
that leads to excessive degradation. The eventual discovery of a
synthetic rubber for this purpose is merely a matter of time. More-
over, special rubbers, capable of withstanding the cold of the Arctic
and the heat of the equatorial desert regions without losing the re-
quired elasticity, and those which are oil-resistant and suited for low-
temperature utilization, will be added to the list.

Dozens of various kinds of plastics are now sold commercially.
These vary from the clear and transparent, especially suitable for
ornamental purposes or for airplane windshields, to very tough, chem-
ical- and heat-resistant plastics for use as gaskets in chemical opera-
tions involving corrosive materials. There are resins and plastics
for parts of chemical equipment; for coatings of wire to be used in
the construction of small motors operating at high temperatures to
produce the power of an ordinary larger motor; for the waterproofing
of fabrics; for finishes of wood, metals, and even stoneware. Plastics
are available for all types of bristles, and others are suitable for re-
placement of metals even where strength is a primary factor. The
future will see transparent plastics that will not discolor and with
surfaces that will not craze or scratch readily; finishes for wood and
metals that will remain durable for long periods of time in the
presence of sunlight and salt air; and flexible, waterproof and mois-
tureproof film of any desired strength.
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Cotton, silk, and wool have been the fibers used almost exclusively
for fabrics until a few decades ago. Rayon and acetate silk were
then introduced. These are both chemical modifications of cellulose,
derived usually from cotton or wood. In spite of the fact that they
lack many of the desirable properties of the natural fibers, particu-
larly wet-strength and recoverability of the original shape upon
drying, these fibers have been widely accepted and have supplemented
or in part replaced cotton and silk. Acetate fabric possesses a lux-
urious “feel” and drapes in soft, lustrous folds. Acetate blends re-
markably well with other fibers. Just recently it has been announced
that a rayon has been made in which the basic structure has been
so modified that the resulting product has the wet-strength exhibited
by natural fibers. If this is authentic, one of the greatest steps for-
ward in rayon manufacture since its inception will have been achieved.

About 15 years ago nylon, a strictly synthetic fiber, made by com-
bining very simple molecules into a complex one similar to those
nature furnishes us, made its appearance. Chiefly because of its
rapid-drying properties, its durability, and its resistance to fungi
and insects, it has found many applications for which natural fibers
are not suitable. Natural silk, for which nylon is a substitute, has
never recovered its prewar status. The brilliant researches in Japan
extending over a period of 40 years, when the silkworm was nurtured
and pampered until he produced an egg-shaped instead of peanut-
shaped cocoon with a filament twice as long as formerly and of double
strength, will be of no avail by the time the synthetic chemist has
had a decade or more of additional experience. The uses for nylon
have become so numerous that the demand cannot be met by present
production facilities. Newer synthetic fibers have appeared on the
market—for example, Orlon, Acrilan, Dynel, which resemble one
another somewhat in properties and are all based on the same simple
chemical, acrylonitrile. These fabrics are utilized particularly for
seat covers, curtains, and filter cloths in industry. They are also
suitable in the apparel field because of their smart appearance, long
wear, and easy laundering. Still another synthetic fiber is Dacron,
which resists wrinkling, water, and moths as does no other fiber. Suits
made of Dacron go through rainstorms without losing their crease
and can be cleaned with soap and water without losing the original
shape after drying. /

Rapid drying is effected because the threads do not absorb water
and drying consists merely in the evaporation of surface moisture.
But this nonabsorption of moisture leads to a certain amount of dis-
comfort, particularly in hot weather. Consequently, closely woven
fabrics for shirts and undergarments have in large measure been re-
placed by those with a sheer or open weave. To find a fiber that will

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 225

dry rapidly and at the same time permit moisture to penetrate is
asking more than the chemist is likely to discover, since they are two
incompatible properties. But these synthetic fibers must be improved
in other ways, or new fibers found which have the desired properties,
before natural fibers will be extensively replaced. The present syn-
thetic fibers do not take dyes as effectively as natural fibers, and up
to the present it has been impossible to manufacture fabrics with the
attractive colors so frequently found in silk and wool. Synthetic
fibers also have the annoying property of melting or changing color
if the pressing iron is too hot. The “feel” of synthetic textiles has
been improved, but the resiliency of wool or the warm, soft “feel”
of silk has not yet been duplicated in the synthetics. When, however,
synthetic fibers are blended with wool or rayon in various proportions,
fabrics with many of the desirable properties of each of the
components have been obtained.

Certain representatives of the petroleum industry, when called upon
to make speeches in foreign lands on the progress of petroleum chem-
istry, have demonstrated the achievements by clothing themselves
completely—suit, necktie, shirt, underclothing, and socks—with syn-
thetic fibers, the primary chemicals for which are all derived from
petroleum. For any traveler in foreign lands, the convenience of
synthetic-fiber wearing apparel is superlative.

I predict the discovery of synthetic fibers which the public will pre-
fer for most purposes to the natural fibers. An official of the wool
industry made a statement recently that the demand for wool as a
fabric will never be replaced. ‘These words were spoken by one com-
pletely unfamiliar with the potentialities of chemical research. Just
as the automobile replaced the wagon, synthetic fibers will replace the
natural fibers. Half the wool now consumed in the United States
will be replaced by synthetic fibers within 10 to 20 years, the time being
dependent primarily on the restrictions which industry encounters in
materials and money for plant construction. Synthetic fibers to re-
place cotton will also be discovered ; these will be strong, durable, and
moisture-absorbing, thus making them suitable and comfortable for
wearing apparel. They will not, however, be rapid-drying.

The plastics to replace cotton will also serve to replace natural
leather for shoe uppers. For years excellent leather substitutes,
especially for seat coverings and bookbinding, have been available
but not for shoes. Natural leather permits moisture to penetrate,
and the feet remain dry except when it is unusually hot. The present
artificial leathers do not have this property. As a consequence, when
shoes of this material are worn the feet become moist and uncomfort-
able. With durable, moisture-absorbing plastics, the problem of
synthetic shoe uppers will be solved.
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Plant life is essential to human existence, and the chemist will con-
tribute much in this field. By well-known processes of selection and
plant breeding, the agriculturist has succeeded, during the 40 years
that soybeans have been grown in this country, in increasing the oil
content from 16 or 17 percent to 21 or 22 percent. Hybrid seed corn,
which is now widely used by farmers, results in an increase in crop
yield sometimes as high as 50 percent, essentially without any addi-
tional requirements in the soil. The inference from these achieve-
ments is that proper chemical treatment of plants could result in
fundamental modification of their metabolism. By standard agri-
cultural development methods the future will see food crops in which
the size of the plant is dwarfed and the fruit, kernels, or ears of corn
are of greater size. In this way, more plants can be grown in a given
area and the subsequent crop will be larger.

Another means of providing a greater crop from a given acreage is
by plant-growth stimulants—chemicals that accelerate the growth and
maturation of plants. Several are known, and chemists will discover
new and better ones, with the eventual result that two crops of the
same or different plants may be grown during the normal season where
now only one crop is possible. Perhaps during these experiments we
may find substances that will not merely speed up the growth of a
plant but cause its fruit to be larger—for example, pears, apples, or
oranges the size of grapefruit. If this seems fantastic, just consider
the coconut-milk factor recently discovered in academic experiments.
On its addition to a basal nutrient agar medium, mature plant cells
are caused to subdivide; for example, cylindrical slices of carrot will
grow rapidly.

Plant physiology is still in its infancy, and it must be better under-
stood before rapid advancement in the cultivation and control of
plants can reach a maximum. Experiments performed in Germany
during the past 10 years permit one to envisage remarkable achieve-
ments in the future. In the flowers of the forsythia, those early
yellow blooms which decorate gardens in many parts of the country
in the early spring, it has been observed that the pollen of one flower
never fertilizes the stigma of the same flower, nor does it fertilize a
flower of the same type whether the flower is on the same or another
bush. Formation of seed occurs in flowers where the pollen comes
from long stamens and is accepted by flowers with long stigmas.
Similarly, pollen from flowers with short stamens fertilizes flowers
with short stigmas. Other combinations result in nonfertilization.
A chemical study of pollen from long and short stamens has revealed
that, although closely related chemicals are in each, they are actually
different. With this discovery, a procedure was developed whereby
fertilization of these flowers could be made to occur by chemical treat-
ment where it would not have occurred naturally.

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 224.

Not too remote from these experiments is that of spraying the blos-
soms of tomato plants with 2,4-D, a chemical commonly used for
killing broad-leaved plants. This not only causes many more of the
earlier blooms to mature into fruit, but the tomatoes formed are seed-
less. With this start, let us look forward to seedless raspberries,
blackberries, cranberries, and perhaps many other kinds of fruits,
such as watermelons, pears, and apples.

One of the banes of the farmer or the florist is the insect pests
that either destroy or greatly reduce his crops. The varieties of
insects and mites are many, and consequently different kinds of
chemicals have been sought to eliminate them. DDT is effective
in the killing of flies, mosquitoes, and many insects that attack
plants, but it is not universally good. Several other insecticides
are available, each with its special properties for use on a certain
type of insect. Periodic spraying of crops, however, is not only ex-
pensive but inefficient, since it is impossible to reach all parts of
the plant. The chemist must search for a more ideal insecticide.
The ultimate will be a chemical, repellent to all insects and mites
and innocuous to plants and to higher animals, a substance which
when sprayed on the leaves will be absorbed and completely trans-
located by means of the plant juices. Why not seek also a com-
bination of minerals and fertilizer required as plant food that
can be absorbed through the leaves rather than to follow the tra-
ditional custom of fertilizing the soil with chemicals, a large pro-
portion of which is washed away by the rain before plant absorp-
tion has occurred ?

The farmer also requires chemicals to control weeds and to simplify
his cultivation problems. Rapid advances have been made in this
area, and many chemicals are known that are toxic to certain kinds of
vegetation. Chemicals will sometime be available to sterilize the
soil completely toward grasses and weeds but not toward the desired
crop. Because of the similarity of many plants to each other, it may
be necessary to provide a series of chemicals, each of which will ef-
fectively kill just one kind of several closely related plants. The lay-
man will welcome the day when he can effectively kill the crabgrass
in his bluegrass lawn.

Far more important information will eventually result from the
study of plants. Each plant, with the aid of the sun’s energy, con-
verts carbon dioxide and water in presence of mineral salts into a
wide variety of chemicals, such as starch, cellulose, protein, vegetable
oils, chlorophyll, and many other complex organic molecules in smaller
amounts. These reactions take place at ordinary temperatures under
very mild conditions, commonly known as “biological conditions.”
In comparison, the chemist is a clumsy operator. He requires massive
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

equipment, often high temperatures and pressures, skillful engineer-
ing, and a number of operations to achieve what the plant does with a
little sunlight and the simplest of chemicals. The chemist has dis-
covered a few reactions that take place under very mild conditions
and result in the formation of complex molecules from several simple
ones. But he isa long way from understanding how nature operates.
When, a few centuries hence, such reactions can be duplicated in the
laboratory our present production methods for many organic chem-
icals, ingenious and skillful as they now appear, will look archaic.

Characteristic of each plant is its ability always to build up the
same chemicals year after year. It has been observed, however, that
if a plant is moved to a different climate the relative amounts of the
chemicals present may often be modified. The day will come when
a plant, after treatment with a certain chemical, will be inhibited from
synthesizing one or more of the substances normally found within its
structure or, on the other hand, the plant may be stimulated to create
one or more of its chemicals in much larger amounts. Thus fodder
crops might result from plants which now contain some toxic con-
stituent, or plants which contain physiologically active medicinal sub-
stances may be induced to produce them in larger quantities.

The present food supply of the world, if properly distributed, would
be adequate. With the steady increase in population, sooner or later
all the arable land will be utilized, and even intensive farming of the
soil through improved agricultural methods, plant stimulants, weed-
controlling agents, pesticides, and other developments will not meet
the world’s food requirements. The resources of the sea will then be
more intensively exploited than at present. Fish is a valuable food of
high protein and rich vitamin content. It can be expanded to supple-
ment meat supply. J envisage a more systematic fishing industry than
at present—certain types of fish ranches—large fenced-off water areas
in which fish are grown, fed, and annually harvested—analogous to
cattle ranches. Sea farming will be a term comparable to land farm-
ing. Marine plants for food, fuel, or chemical use will be grown and
harvested like Jand crops instead of the present system of collecting
what happens to be washed ashore. When, with these extensions, the
food supplies reach the limit the chemist will provide antifertility com-
pounds which upon addition to the diet will assure a means of control-
ling the birth rate.

The diets of humans have been improved until now many ailments
resulting from diet deficiencies are well understood and have largely
been overcome either by balancing or supplementing the food intake.
Concentrated or synthetic foods containing just the necessary constitu-
ents for human growth and development are feasible, but they will
never be accepted by persons in good health as long as eating attractive

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 229

food is the most general and universally liked human activity. In
spite of properly adjusted diets, the human race is susceptible to a long
list of bacterial, virus, fungus, and degenerative diseases, some of
which have thus far resisted the efforts of science.

Until half a century ago medicinal products for treatment of dis-
ease were confined chiefly to plant or animal extracts or principles dis-
covered originally through the cut-and-try methods of the physicians
of earlier ages. The chemist has now synthesized many of these prin-
ciples and on the basis of this knowledge has been able to produce
other products superior to the natural. Drugs that have not been
derived from the basic information provided by nature have been
fortuitous or have been discovered usually by serendipity, a combina-
tion of skillful observation and chance that leads so often during
scientific research to unexpected achievements of basic or applied
importance.

Even though a marvelous array of drugs is now available, and a
vast storehouse of information has been collected, the laws of chemo-
therapy are still unrevealed and decades will pass before a rational
chemical basis will be provided for discovery of new therapeutic
agents. The knowledge of the living cell in which the chemical re-
actions are constantly occurring to provide the life process is still very
meager. However, the elaborate series and combinations of reactions
in the cell are gradually being untangled. The cell functions in health
and disease will sooner or later be clarified.

While these more basic explorations are progressing, search for more
effective drugs by present procedures will be intensified. New and
better drugs for combatting bacterial diseases may be expected. I
envisage the gradual replacement of the drugs which must be admin-
istered intravenously or intramuscularly by others of equal or greater
potency which may be taken orally. Many of the most stubborn dis-
eases of mankind are those caused by viruses, such as the common cold,
poliomyelitis, spinal meningitis, influenza, virus pneumonia, mumps,
and measles. Satisfactory drugs for their treatment are lacking. The
retarded progress in this field in contrast to that made in the study
of bacterial diseases is the result of the absence of suitable laboratory
or animal assay methods for determining the effectiveness of any
chemical agent upon a particular virus. Bacteria can be grown in the
laboratory, but viruses propagate only within living bacteria or living
cells. Research in the next decades will solve the vexing problem of
finding viricides, and thus open a new chapter in medical therapy.

For the degenerative diseases, such as cancer, heart disease, or
arteriosclerosis, it is unlikely that complete cures can be found, but
the organic chemist will succeed in providing products that will elimi-
-nate susceptibility toward these diseases.
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

As the physiology of the cell becomes better known, and the relation
of chemical structure to cell and tissue is revealed, chemically induced
mutation of cells may become possible. Certain hormones and other
drugs are now known which affect the physical being as well as the
mental attitude of an individual. The future may bring to us a series
of drugs that will permit deliberate molding of a person, mentally and
physically. When this day arrives the problems of control of such
chemicals will be of concern to all. They would present dire potential-
ities in the hands of an unscrupulous dictator.

What may we expect from atomic energy and radioactive sub-
stances? The ores of uranium and thorium are found in only limited
quantities on this earth. The industrial applications of atomic energy
are, therefore, likely to be limited to special situations, such as sub-
marine propulsion or power units to be used in isolated spots, inacces-
sible to the ordinary energy-bearing materials. Radioactive sub-
stances will continue to find more and more utilization in elucidation
of organic and physiological reactions, particularly metabolic degra-
dations and transformations. Whereas biochemical studies will prob-
ably lead to compounds which may go far toward the prevention of
cancer, the newer «-, @-, and y-radiations from radioisotopes are likely
to be found more effective for reducing or arresting growth of certain
types of tumors than the older radium radiation. Promising results
have been obtained by introducing such a substance as radioactive gold
directly by mechanical means into certain tumors. In the diagnostic
field many applications of radioactive substances may be anticipated.
Thus itis now possible to demonstrate the presence of a tumor in the
brain, and even to localize it accurately from outside the skull by
means of certain radioactive iodine-tagged chemicals.

In 1780, Benjamin Franklin, in a letter to Joseph Priestley, wrote
as follows:

The rapid progress true science now makes, occasions my regretting sometimes
that I was born so soon. It is impossible to imagine the height to which may
be carried, in a thousand years, the power of man over matter. We may perhaps
learn to deprive large masses of their gravity, and give them absolute levity, for
the sake of easy transport. Agriculture may diminish its labor and double its
produce; all diseases may be by sure means prevented or cured, not excepting
even that of age, and our lives lengthened at pleasure even beyond the antedilu-
vian standard. O that moral science were in a fair way of improvement, that
men would cease to be wolves to one another, and that human beings would at
length learn what they now improperly call humanity.

Let us see what has happened during the 170 years since this was
written. We do not know yet how to eliminate gravity so as to facili-
tate transport. In agriculture, however, Franklin’s predictions have
already come true. When this country was founded, it took nine
people on the farm to feed themselves plus one city dweller. Today,

MAN’S SYNTHETIC FUTURE—ADAMS 231

in contrast, one man on the farm feeds himself, four city people, and
one person overseas.

There can be no complaint about the achievements in treatment of
many diseases by use of various serums, vaccines, hormones, vitamins,
antibiotics, antihistamines, and a host of others. The life expectancy
of a child has increased from 50 years in 1900 to 68 years at the present
time. With these results already recorded, Franklin’s predictions,
which relate to 830 years hence, will in large measure be correct.

Pictures of the past show log cabins, sailing frigates, oil lamps,
caravans, and prairie schooners, crude utensils, hand weaving, and
the man with the hoe cultivating the fields. Today life is mechanized,
electrified, abundant, easy, because of the push-button era. In the
future citizens will more effectively farm the land and the seas; obtain
necessary minerals from the oceans; clothe themselves from coal and
oil; keep themselves warm by using the stored energy of the sun; be
cured of any ailments by a variety of drugs and medicinals; be happy,
healthy, and kittenish at 100 years of age; and perhaps attend inter-
planetary football matches in the Rose Bowl.

236639—53——16
Phosphorus and Life’

By D. P. Hopkins, B. Sc., F. R. I. C.

Or THE TRULY mineral elements—those found in the earth’s crust of
rock—phosphorus undoubtedly has the greatest biological significance.
In the strictest sense of objectivity all elements that are essential for
the growth and maintenance of living matter are equally important
whether required in large or small amounts. However, the major
role of phosphorus has compelled special attention since the first days
of nutritional and agricultural science, and centuries before scientific
interpretation was possible the vital importance of materials contain-
ing phosphorus was widely known.

The natural occurrence of elementary phosphorus is exceedingly
rare and transient, for it combines spontaneously and vigorously with
oxygen. Even the oxide that is formed, the pentoxide, has a very
brief existence, for it rapidly absorbs water and combines with it to
produce phosphoric acid. It is as simple or complex phosphates,
which are the salts of phosphoric acid, that most of the world’s supply
of phosphorus is distributed. A proportion of the earth’s phosphorus
is continually passing out of the mineral reserve into living matter;
similarly, phosphorus is continually passing out of living matter and
re-entering the mineral reserve. These circulations take place within
two cycles, a land cycle and a marine cycle. Although each of these
cycles can be separately described, they are in fact interconnected;
indeed, losses of phosphorus from one cycle become gains for the other.

The initial source of the world’s phosphorus was the sun. Spectro-
scopic analysis shows that the sun’s atmosphere is fairly high in
phosphorus content. In the formation of the earth by the condensa-
tion of solar matter, much of the phosphorus then present was en-
veloped in the earth’s outer shell of siliceous matter. All igneous
rock contains phosphorus, mainly as apatite, a complex form of cal-
cium phosphate. The first biological organization of matter took
place in the seas and the marine cycle of phosphorus utilization long
preceded the land cycle.

If the silicate rock surface of the earth imprisoned solar phosphorus,
so, too, the large water surfaces must have acquired some supplies of

~1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, vol. 13, No. 8, March 1952.
233
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

the element. In an aqueous solution phosphates would have main-
tained a simple chemical form much longer than phosphates fused

in rock composed largely of other complex-forming minerals. It is _

possible, therefore, that the first unicellular living organisms of the
sea were able to obtain their phosphorus requirements from this orig-
inal solar supply. Even so, it would have been a limited source of
phosphorus, in time becoming inadequate for the demands of expand-
ing marine life. The principal store of phosphorus was in the land’s
igneous rock surface. Although apatite is insoluble in water, it is
slowly and slightly dissolved by carbonic acid (formed when carbon
dioxide dissolves in water). Rain water, thus acidified, steadily ex-
tracted minute amounts of phosphate from the apatite. There were
then neither soils nor land plants to utilize any of this dilute solution
of phosphate as it ran off into streams and sea-bound rivers. But in
the seas the phosphate could be promptly utilized by marine plants.

Higher forms of sea life evolved. Then, as now, one form of life
in the seas fed upon another. The same “quota” of phosphorus could
support a succession of lives and thus be indefinitely retained within
the biological sequences of the marine cycle. The initial assimilation
of phosphate is largely made by algae, minute diatoms which multiply
by self-division like yeasts; but their synthesis of phosphate and other
simple nutrients in the sea’s solution is dependent upon a supply of
energy from sunlight (i. e., they are photosynthetic), and their float-
ing existence is confined to the upper levels of the sea. In the mass
these algae are known as plankton. Plankton is the food for zooplank-
ton, larger and longer-living forms of very simple sea life. Young
fish when hatched feed first upon the plankton and then upon the
zooplankton; later, however, most sea fish feed carnivorously, upon
other species and even upon their own species.

However, all sea life does not die by becoming the diet of other
organisms; were this so, there would be no losses of biologically or-
ganized phosphorus from the marine cycle. A large proportion of
sea plants and sea animals die naturally. Their remains sink to lower
depths. The eventual decomposition of this organic matter returns
the phosphorus (and other nutrients) to the sea. But most of this
liberation takes place at depths beyond the sun’s penetration; the
simple nutrient-assimilating organisms are not present to remobilize
this phosphate. There is, therefore, in the lower water levels of the
seas a steady building up of phosphates and other nutrients. How-
ever, this phosphate is not accumulatively retained in the sea solution.
Some of it is assimilated by crustacean and other bottom-living or-
ganisms; much of it is steadily precipitated to the sea floor; and in
temperate regions there are regular inversions of the upper and lower
layers of sea water which result in the further utilization of deep-sea
phosphate for plankton growth.

er a a

PHOSPHORUS AND LIFE—HOPKINS Bo

The second of these three influences, precipitation, is largely caused
by the release of calcium in the decomposition of marine organic resi-
dues. When calcium and phosphate ions meet, insoluble calcium
phosphate is formed. This steadily precipitated phosphate enters the
composition of sedimentary rock; again it eventually becomes a more
complex mineral phosphate of the apatite class. Here there is an im-
portant connection between the marine and land cycles of phospho-
rus. Substantial areas of what is now the land surface of the world
were once covered by seas; indeed, their rock and subsoils have a much
longer past history as seabeds. There are, therefore, two kinds of
complex mineral phosphate on land — the phosphates of igneous rock
originating directly from solar phosphorus and the phosphates of
sedimentary rock which have formerly passed through the marine
cycle.

IGNEOUS ROCK ON LAND
DILUTE SOLUTION OF PHOSPHATE
PLANKTON
OE a On

Complex Cycle Returned to

UPPER WATERS
by INVERSION

of Carnivorous
Sea Life
(Fish etc)

DEEP WATER PHOSPHATE
from decay of dead sea life

eye +
(Precipitation) Temporary use
by crustacean
sea floor life

CALCIUM, PHOSPHATE ENTERING SEDIMENTARY ROCK

Ficure 1.—Simple diagram for marine cycle of phosphorus circulation.

The third influence by which phosphate accumulations are removed
from deep-sea waters, by the inversion of upper and lower sea layers,
is not yet fully understood. In all seas the surface waters are warmed
by the sun and they therefore become lighter so that, without some in-
tervening disturbance, the colder and heavier water below cannot rise.
In marine science the boundary between the upper part, which extends
some 40 yards down, and the cold lower part is known as the thermo-
cline. In temperate regions the autumn cooling of upper waters leads
to a breakdown of the thermocline and there is a seasonal rising of the
lower and nutrient-rich waters; but in tropical regions the surface
waters remain permanently warmer and lighter and there is no sea-
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

sonal breakdown. This is the explanation of the comparative absence
of good fishing grounds in the tropical parts of the world. But there
are other factors that promote inversion in particular sea areas; a
contoured shape of seabed coupled with the seasonal breakdown of
the thermocline may create rising bottom currents which produce a
more thorough and persistent mixing of the lower and surface waters.
More than one complex theory of this hydrodynamic nature has been
put forward to explain the exceptional amount of inversion that occurs
at the Dogger Bank in the North Sea. But whatever the detailed ex-
planations may be, all the deep-sea fishing grounds are places where
an exceptional uprising of bottom water takes place. With it, of
course, a supply of nutrients, particularly phosphate, is brought into
the sunlit zone of plankton growth.

It is clear that only a limited recovery of deep-sea phosphate can be
expected. The inversion or sea-mixing influences are occasional rather
than perpetual; and they are strongly exerted locally rather than
generally. But the removal of phosphate from the sea by precipita-
tion can take place steadily. In its simplest form the marine cycle
for phosphorus may be summarized as follows: but for the steady flow
of fresh phosphate from igneous rock, the losses by deep-sea phosphate
precipitation would have prevented any lasting expansion of sea life.
Even with this constant land source of phosphate additions, it is clear
from modern fishery research that a shortage of phosphate in the sur-
face waters is the principal limitation to sea life.

The land cycle of phosphorus began much later. First came the
invasion of dry land by plant life. Initially the medium of growth
was the layer of fine mineral particles derived from rock weathering,
the simple plant nutrients being provided by the rock-extracting
power of carbonic acid. Later, with the decay of dead plants, organic
matter and humus entered the medium and topsoils of the kind we
know today began to develop. As plant life increased its land in-
vasion a larger amount of the phosphate dissolved from apatite was
taken by plants. It is possible, however, that plant growth and soil
formation accelerated the rate of apatite extraction; for the accumula-
tion of organic matter on the land surface with its concomitant produc-
tion of carbon dioxide by decomposition is likely to have increased
the amount of carbonic acid attacking surface rock and rock-derived
subsoil.

In any case, some of the phosphorus needed for further plant
growth was provided by the decomposition of previous plant material.
The invasion of animal life enlarged and complicated the economy of
the ROCK—>PLANT—s0IL—>PLANT cycle. Only a portion of the phos-
phorus taken by animals from plants was speedily returned to the
soil. The reason for this is found in the twofold function of phos-

PHOSPHORUS AND LIFE—HOPKINS 237

phorus in animal life. It is not only an essential constituent of all cell
nuclei but also a major constituent (as calcium phosphate) of bone
substance; it has, therefore, a dynamic “life process” function and a
less dynamic structural function. Nearly 25 percent of the total min-
eral content of an animal body may be phosphorus, but as much as
four-fifths of this amount is held as calcium phosphate in the skeleton.
In the final decomposition of the animal body after death, the phos-
phorus in the flesh will be fairly quickly returned to the soil; but the
decomposition of solid bones is exceedingly slow. So, in the som—>
PLANT—>ANIMAL->SOIL sequence, the final closing of the cycle involves,
at any rate for as much as 80 percent of the animal-assimilated phos-
phorus, a serious time lag.

Did the expansion of plant and animal life on land with its increas-
ing utilization of rock-derived and dissolved phosphate reduce the
flow of land phosphate into the sea and the marine cycle? There
would seem to have been always a sufficient release of soluble phosphate
from the land to the sea, a fact that supports the idea that soil forma-
tion and plant life led to an increase in the previous rate of rock
denudation. There is, however, little “washing out” of phosphate
from soils by rain for the actual existence of soluble phosphate in soils
is quite brief. Like other nutrients, phosphorus can be assimilated by
plants only when it is available in the soil solution. But if phosphate
in the soil solution is not quickly removed by plant uptake, it is precipi-
tated by other soil constituents. Insoluble calcium phosphate is readily
formed ; however, this need not be a long or permanent withdrawal
from the “system” for calcium phosphate can be equally readily re-
dissolved by weak soil acids. But iron and aluminum phosphates are
also formed (especially in acid soils) and from these compounds
phosphate recovery is slight and slow. These processes are known as
soil fixation. Soil fixation prevents a considerable proportion of the
“biological currency” of phosphorus in the sorn—>PLANT—>ANIMAL—>SOIL
sequence from re-entering the cycle when it returns to the soil. In-
stead, it enters the soil’s reserve of unavailable or not easily available
phosphate. There is some resemblance in this to the steady loss of
deep-sea phosphate from the marine system. (It is possible that a
tiny fraction of the fixed soil phosphate enters the marine cycle; for
some of this accumulation in topsoils will pass downward by gradual
and physical movement. In contacts with ground waters the fixed
phosphates will be at least as extractable as the apatite of igneous
rock. These ground waters, out of reach of most plant roots, making
their way to streams and rivers, will carry some of the phosphate to
the sea.)

The slow and almost timeless balance of the land cycle was greatly
disturbed by farming. Agriculture meant the ever-increasing growth
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of cereal plants for feeding man and his domestic animals upon the
seeds or grain, those parts of the plant in which most of the soil-
derived phosphorus is concentrated. As proportions of total mineral
needs, man and animals require more phosphorus than plants (about
24 percent compared with 16 to 17 percent). The fact that seeds are
concentration centers for the phosphorus in plants is a major reason
for the development of cereal grains (wheat and rice) as primary foods
for the animal kingdom. But as a result far more phosphorus was
removed from soils than was returned. Early farming was nomadic,
a steady movement from soils whose fertility had been extracted to
virgin soils maintained in a state of mineral sufficiency by the cycles
which circulate nitrogen, phosphorus, and other elements. Three
devices were in time discovered: (1) Returning animal manures to
soils; (2) fallowing, i. e., periodic and temporary returns to the
natural cycles; (3) crop rotation. But none of these could indefinitely
return a sufficient amount of phosphorus to soils as human populations
increased and sharpened the demands for cereal foods.

In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the usefulness of bones
as a fertilizer was gradually realized, particularly when it was found
that their effectiveness was increased if they were first ground finely.
But it was not until 1795 that the first suggestion was made that the
principal virtue of bone material lay in its phosphorus content; nor
did this become really understood until Liebig in 1840 published his
theory of mineral plant nutrition. Nevertheless, bones were exten-
sively used as a fertilizer before 1840, particularly in England. ‘Thus
in 1815 we find Liebig attacking England for her bone-importing
activities: “England is robbing all other countries of their fertility.
Already in her eagerness for bones, she has turned up the battlefields
of Leipzig, Waterloo, and the Crimea; already from the Catacombs of
Sicily she has carried away the skeletons of many successive genera-
{HONS «jer 32”

It was Liebig himself who indirectly solved the problem of bone
supply. He suggested that treatment of bones with strong acid would
give a more soluble phosphatic fertilizer. In England Lawes put this
idea into practice, thus founding the superphosphate industry. Find-
ing the supply of bones inadequate to meet the demand for super-
phosphate, Lawes experimented with phosphorus-containing minerals
and found that an equally effective superphosphate could be based
upon these mineral sources.

The existence of richly phosphatic mineral deposits in various
parts of the world is not a fortuitous legacy from the earth’s original
formation by solar condensation. These deposits exist as a result of
the marine-cycle movements of phosphorus. It is not fully under-
stood why these exceptional concentrations of mineral phosphates
PHOSPHORUS AND LIFE—HOPKINS 239

occur at certain places on the exposed sedimentary rock surface.
Several explanations have been put forward and it is possible that
no single explanation accounts for all the deposits. Sudden temper-
ature changes in the sea once covering these sites may have caused
enormous mass destruction of life among sea animals and organisms;
heavy destruction of sea life through causes of this nature are not
unknown today. Abnormally high precipitation of phosphate together
with the deposition of bone phosphate would follow. Bottom-water
currents in the sea may have set up chemical disturbances resulting
in an intensified precipitation of deep-sea phosphate ions. Another
explanation is that sea-floor currents and the local contour of the sea
floor itself have segregated the precipitated calcium phosphate and
prevented it from entering siliceous dilution in sedimentary rock
itself. Whatever their true explanations may be, the fact remains
that marine-cycle losses of phosphate have in various places accumu-
lated in concentrated “rock phosphate” forms instead of penetrating
siliceous rock as a minor diluent.

Apatite in Igneous
or Sedimentary Rock

Dilute Solution of
PHOSPHATE

PHOSPHATE
ROCK DEPOSITS
(ex former

Marine Cycle)

Sea-bird
Guano. Fish
and fish waste
used as Manure

Ficure 2.—Simple diagram for land cycle of phosphorus circulation.

The first mineral phosphates used by Lawes were from nodulated
deposits (coprolites) in Suffolk and Cambridgeshire. Until 1900
various nodule deposits in England were worked, but in the period
1850-1900 many much richer phosphate rock deposits were found
abroad, notably the huge beds of North Africa, America, and Russia.
A large and widespread industry has arisen to produce superphos-
phate and other phosphatic fertilizers from these minerals deposited
as a result of the marine cycle. By this means the agricultural accel-
eration of the land cycle is at least partially compensated, though as
human numbers increase and demands for cereal crops intensify, more
and more phosphatic fertilizer is required.

It is pertinent to consider how long this intervention of man can
"preserve a balance. The known world reserves of suitable rock phos-
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

phate are put at 26,000 million tons. A high estimate of world use
of all phosphatic fertilizers is 25 million tons a year. But, with world
population increasing rapidly and with the use of fertilizers still only
partly established in some of the large crop-producing regions, a high
estimate must be taken in making any long-term prediction. There
would seem to be enough rock phosphate in known and workable
deposits to last for another thousand years.

The phosphorus in fertilizers is just as exposed to the processes of
soil fixation as is the soil’s own supply of available phosphorus. Even
in favorable conditions not more than 25 percent of the added fertil-
izer phosphorus enters current or subsequent crops. Despite con-
siderable study by twentieth-century science, this problem remains
unsolved. The discovery of a phosphatic fertilizer producible from
mineral phosphate, which would (a) remain highly available to
plants and (6) resist soil-fixing influences, would greatly reduce the
world’s annual consumption of mineral phosphate reserves. At pres-
ent, however, the best that can be done is to prevent a minor proportion
of the fixation loss by soil-management practices, e. g., liming to reduce
soil acidity, placing fertilizers in bands instead of broadcasting them
and thus reducing soil contact. There is some evidence that soils with
a high content of organic matter fix phosphate less severely.

The continuous outflow of sewage from most centers of population
represents an enormous loss of phosphorus from the modern land
cycle. The human animal, except in countries such as China and Ja-
pan, no longer conserves his own organic wastes. With the widespread
introduction of water closets, these wastes are voluminously diluted
and eventually pass down rivers to the sea. Only a small fraction
of the phosphorus so involved is recovered. Liebig, in his denuncia-
tion of England’s heavy use of bones, stressed this point. “England
annually removes . . . from other countries the manurial equivalent
of 314 million men, whom she takes from us the means of supporting,
and squanders down her sewers into the sea.” It has been estimated
that the phosphorus in the sewage from 5,000,000 people is equivalent
to 17,000 tons of rock phosphate per year; Britain’s current annual
wastage must be at least the equivalent of 160,000 tons of rock phos-
phate (while she imports some 1,200,000 tons of mineral phosphatic
fertilizer materials).

A more serious loss of phosphorus in the modern world is probably
that caused through soil erosion. When millions of acres of top-
soils are blown or washed away, several hundred pounds of phosphorus
(available plus fixed) are lost with each acre. The annual loss of
phosphorus by erosion in the United States was estimated in 1930
to be more than 2,000,000 tons. And we are still only on the verge
of reversing the widespread erosion of soils even in those countries
where the problem has been seriously and determinedly faced.
PHOSPHORUS AND LIFE—HOPKINS 241

Both the loss by soil erosion and the loss by sewage outflow—man-
created losses—are conserved by the marine cycle; whether conducted
through sewers, washed away into rivers, or blown away in dust
storms, most of the phosphorus thus removed eventually reaches
the sea, where a great part of it will be assimilated by plankton.

A very minor but interesting link between the land and marine
cycles has not yet been mentioned. Certain oceanic islands, rocky and
uninhabited by man, and in almost rainless areas, are regularly used
by sea birds (pelicans, albatrosses, etc.) during their breeding season.
Their excreta and the bodies of young birds that die accumulate.
Rain would wash out the phosphate but instead the sun dries and
concentrates this material. As these birds feed entirely upon fish,
their organic wastage is directly derived from the marine cycle’s
“phosphorus currency.” This naturally dried material has long been
known as guano. Guano islands were exploited as a source of manure
by the Incas. In more recent times the most famous guano islands,
off the Peruvian coast, have yielded 10,000 tons of guano a year.
Guano collection is illegal during the four-months’ closed season when
the birds flock to the islands; similar protective regulations are said to
have been imposed by the Incas. Today the total contribution of
guano is insignificant compared with the millions of tons of mineral
phosphate brought into the land cycle. Nevertheless, it represents
a unique transference of phosphate and other nutrients from the sea
to the land.

Is modern man to be indicted for his agricultural acceleration of the
land cycle? An adult requires just over one pound of phosphorus per
year as a maintenance standard. Many of the world’s soils are ex-
ceedingly deficient in available phosphorus. Since 1800 the world’s
human population has more than doubled. The marine cycle’s de-
posits of concentrated mineral phosphate took many millions of years
to accumulate and they are being consumed at an exhaustion rate to
be measured in centuries. Yet it is difficult to see how man, faced
with so vast an increase in his numbers, could have done otherwise.
If there is any indictment, it rests upon the charges of wastage, upon
the huge losses in sewage and the even greater losses through un-
checked soil erosion.
-~

The Ice Age in the North American Arctic’

By RicHarD Foster FLINT

Professor of Geology
Yale University

[With 4 plates]
SIGNIFICANCE OF GLACIAL AND INTERGLACIAL AGES

Arctic North America,? in common with the rest of the world, is
now emerging from the latest of the series of glacial ages which, as a
group, have characterized the last million years or more of geological
time. During the glacial ages, each of which was a hundred thousand
years or more in length, the mean temperatures at the earth’s surface
were markedly lower than today. In consequence the proportion of
snowfall to rainfall increased, melting diminished, and the accumu-
lated snow formed glaciers. These great ice masses spread outward,
slowly flowing under their own weight, until they covered one-quarter
to nearly one-third of the land area of the world, principally, of course,
in high and middle latitudes. In North America and Greenland
alone the area covered by ice amounted to 7 million square miles.

Between the cold glacial ages, warmer times intervened. The rec-
ord of the soils formed in temperate latitudes during the warmer,
interglacial ages shows that those ages were longer than the glacial
ages—one of them probably lasted 300,000 years. The record of the
fossil animals and plants entombed in the deposits of interglacial times
establishes that one or more of those times was warmer than today;
from this the inference follows that the interglacial ages probably
witnessed a more extensive disappearance of ice from the arctic regions
than is now the case. In fact, for the world as a whole the present
is a time transitional from glacial to interglacial. The great ice
sheets that formerly blanketed much of North America and Eurasia
have disappeared, but more than 10 percent of the world’s land area
still remains covered by glacier ice.

The glacial and interglacial ages together constitute the Pleistocene
epoch, the latest epoch in the scale of geological time. Although this

1 Reprinted by permission from Arctic, vol. 5, No. 3, October 1952.

? Throughout this paper “Arctic North America” is used in the broad sense and includes
“both arctic and subarctic regions.

243
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

epoch is also known as the “Ice Age,” the latter term is not a good one;
it is too simple. It does not imply that it includes the interglacial
ages, whose combined length was greater than that of the combined
glacial ages.

Most of the information on which we have formed our concepts of
Pleistocene conditions comes from temperate regions. Knowledge of
the former glaciation of arctic regions is scanty and is based in part
on inferences from research carried on in lower latitudes. At pres-
ent our reconstruction of glacial and interglacial events in the Arctic
consists of broad generalizations, meagerly supported at one place or
another by detailed data. As exploration and research fill in the wide
blanks in our knowledge much will be learned that will modify our
concepts concerning the extent of the former glaciers, their growth
and decay, and the paths they made possible for large mammals and
for early man emigrating from northeast Asia into North America.

EVIDENCE OF GLACIATION *

Today only a minor proportion of the arctic and subarctic regions is
covered with glacier ice. But it is now well known that during the
glacial ages a very large proportion of the land areas of these regions
was overspread by glaciers, while the seas were largely covered with
ice consisting of frozen sea water plus icebergs broken off from the
glaciers along the coasts.

This knowledge is based on evidence of various kinds. Direct evi-
dence of former sea ice is little known as yet, but it is unmistakable.
In 1936 the Western Union Telegraph Co.’s ship Lord Kelvin made
a cable-repairing voyage from Canada to Britain. On board was
Dr. C. S. Piggot, who had invented a device for taking a 10-foot core
sample of the soft sediments beneath the sea floor. A study of the
series of cores he made from the region between Newfoundland and
Ireland showed that the sea floor in that region is underlain by al-
ternating layers of foraminiferal ooze and pebbly grit (Bradley et al.,
1940). The single-celled Foraminifera contained in the ooze are
characteristic of the warm surface waters of the Gulf Stream. The
pebbly grit likewise contains some Foraminifera, but they are of types
peculiar to colder northern waters.

There can be no reasonable doubt that the layers of pebbly grit were
deposited by sea ice as it floated southward and melted during glacial
times. The layers of foraminiferal ooze, on the other hand, were de-
posited under warmer conditions much like those of the present day.
Hence there is firm ground for the belief that in the glacial ages the
northern seas yielded sea ice that was far more abundant and that ex-
tended much farther south than at present.

* Systematically discussed in Flint, 1947.
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 245

On the lands of Arctic North America the glacial ages left a more
evident impress. In the alpine mountains of British Columbia and
Alaska in the west, and of Labrador, Baffin and Ellesmere Islands, and
Greenland in the east, the shattering action of frost, accompanying
the glacial climates, sculptured typical jagged peaks and serrate ridges
and, at slightly lower altitudes, excavated the capacious, half-bowllike
corries that characterize the heads of most glaciated valleys. The
larger valleys were converted into fiords and, in Alaska and British
Columbia, where the rate of flow of the glaciers was rapid owing to
abundant snowfall, some valleys were deepened at least 2,000 feet by
glacial erosion. Now partly filled with sea water, these troughlike
valleys are the familiar fiords characteristic of the mountainous coastal
regions of high latitudes.

On the lowlands the slow grinding action of thick glaciers almost
entirely removed the mantle of preglacial soil and subsoil, and
grooved, scratched, polished, and generally smoothed the surface
bedrock underneath. In places where the rock is cut by closely
spaced fractures and other planes of weakness, the glaciers quarried
out blocks of many sizes, creating roughened surfaces, as well as many
rock basins that now contain lakes.

The depth of glacial erosion of the lowlands was small, as is indi-
cated by the preservation of preglacial topographic features and
of chemically altered bedrock that could only have been formed close
to the surface during preglacial time. Most estimates place the layer
of soil and rock removed by glacial action at a few tens of feet at
most. The small figure is the result chiefly of the lowland character
of the country ; there were no deep valleys to channel and concentrate
the flow of the ice, nor were there mountains to provide steep gradients.

Here and there throughout the lowland region, irregular deposits
of earth and stones (the glacial drift) left on the surface, chiefly
during the melting of the glaciers, created obstructions to the natural
drainage, forming many lakes in addition to those occupying bedrock
basins.

The glacial drift is generally thin and is distributed in patches.
In the regions surrounding Hudson Bay and lying immediately east of
the Mackenzie Great Lakes, where the ancient bedrock is strong and
not easily eroded, bare, ice-smoothed outcrops are much in evidence
and drift is scanty. Farther west, in the plains region, where the
weaker bedrock yields more readily to erosion the covering of drift is
more general. It is also thick in the central region between Hudson
Bay and the Mackenzie River.

Much of the drift is a variety of ¢i//—a tough, compact nonstratified
stony clay plastered bit by bit onto the ground from the load of rock
fragments carried in the base of the slowly flowing glacier. The till
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

is usually only a few feet in thickness, although in the plains region
it may be much thicker. In some areas where the till is comparatively
thick the flow of the overriding ice has molded it into the whaleback
hills known as drumlins. Commonly these occur in broad groups, the
individual drumlins ranging in length up to 3 miles. Thus far drum-
lins have been reported principally from the region west of Hudson
Bay, as far west as northern Saskatchewan. Undoubtedly further
exploration will bring to light many more than are now known. The
value of drumlin study lies in the fact that the long axes of these hills
record the general direction of flow of the glacier ice at the time when
they were built.

The esker, another type of drift accumulation, is also useful in
reconstructing the movements of glaciers. Eskers are long and usu-
ally winding ridges, several tens of feet in height, and in some cases
more than 100 miles in length. Some of them branch like streams,
and all are built of stratified glacial sediments. They are believed
to be the deposits made by streams of meltwater that flowed in tun-
nels beneath the ice or in channels in the surface of thin ice, in the
marginal part of an ice sheet. They were built during the period
of decay, just before the ice melted away, and are generally aligned
at right angles to the trend of the glacier margin at the time they were
built. Thus they may record successive positions of the edge of the
ice sheet during its shrinkage. Eskers are numerous in Arctic North
America, but as yet they have been mapped in two regions only:
east of Great Slave and Great Bear Lakes (Wilson, 1939, 1945) and
in central Quebec and Labrador.

End moraines—ridges of drift heaped along the margin of the ice
sheet—occur here and there. Except in a few localities, however,
no systematic attempt has been made to map them. When fully
mapped these features, too, like the drumlins and eskers, will consti-
tute a valuable clue to the successive positions of the retreating margin
of the ice sheet.

DISTRIBUTION AND TYPES OF FORMER GLACIERS

Plate 1, adapted from the glacial map of North America (Flint
et al., 1945), shows the areas at present believed to have been covered
by former glaciers in North America. Excepting in the region of
the Arctic Ocean, the limits of the highland glaciated regions are
fairly well known, though many details remain to be filled in, Of
the vast lowland area west, north, and east of Hudson Bay, our knowl-
edge is hardly even elementary.

The distribution and directions of flow recorded by the former
glaciers show that the two great groups of highlands in Arctic North
America—the western or Pacific and the eastern or Atlantic—were
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Flint PLATE 1

SMALL ICE CAP, CONGER RANGE, ELLESMERE ISLAND
View looking west toward the United States Range. Photograph courtesy of R. C. A. F.
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Flint

"EVO “ey Jo Asaqanoo sydeis0joyg

“Oy e'T Ala][41V iIeou spunol£) uoslled uo 4Svo SUuTyOO] MoI

SNIIWNYG °2

{SOM BSULYOOT MOT A

VINSNINAd ATIIATAW
‘SOWHLS| AVY ‘MOONGSaG GALVIOVIDS 3evqg ATYVAN

at

PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Flint

“AV OY jo Aseqinos sydeiz0j0yg

“UIIAIS WOY JO YANOs ‘yooig 24S JO yinow je Aeg uospnyy JO JSBOD ISOM

.
NOILVIDV1954qQ ONIANVYdWODDY DNIddyvVMdnN
AG TSAR7 VAS SAC8Y G3ALAIT SANIT SYOHS SAISSSDONS °Z

& A Bo
eP “

S3yYV] OLAOMLNOD
ONY YAATY MOVG NSESaEMLEG SGNNOYS NeaYuYvVgG NO Yyaysy

=!

PLATE 4

Smithsonion Report, 1952.—Flint

GLACIATED AREAS IN NORTH AMERICA, GENERALIZED TO SHOW THE MAXIMUM

AREA COVERED REGARDLESS OF DATE OF GLACIATION

Knopf, and

?

ee published by John Wiley & Sons.

Reproduced by permission from Textbook of Geology, Part 1, by Longwell
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—-FLINT 247

glaciated and that glaciers originated in these highlands. Data of
_the same kind show that the vast lowland region between these high-
land groups was also glaciated—evidently by a thick and extensive
ice sheet. It was long believed that this ice sheet was built up by the
accumulation of fallen snow on the lowlands themselves. However, I
have put forward reasons for believing that the great lowland ice sheet
grew up through the coalescence and expansion of glaciers from the
Atlantic highlands (Flint, 1948, 1947; Demorest, 1943). According
to this view the ice sheet was in a sense an immigrant into the lowland
country rather than being indigenous. The manner in which the ice
sheet developed is not entirely settled, nor can it be until much more
has been learned about the glacial geology of the vast region surround-
ing Hudson Bay. The discussion that follows is based on the view
that the broad ice sheet invaded the lowland from the east, with
the reservation that this view is not yet fully proved and is therefore
subject to whatever modifications may be made necessary by further
study.

The Cordilleran Glacier Complex—The Cordilleran or high-
mountainous region of western North America, from Alaska to
Mexico, is dotted with glaciers today. The colder climates of the
glacial ages brought about so great an expansion of glaciers in this
region that from southern Washington northwestward to the Bering
Sea a complex of coalescent valley glaciers, piedmont glaciers, and ice
sheets covered a combined area of more than 950,000 square miles.*
On the west this ice entered the Pacific and probably formed a floating
shelf similar to the shelf floating on the Ross Sea off the Antarctic
Continent today. On the east the ice descended to the plains where,
along a 1,700-mile front stretching from Glacier National Park in
Montana to the mouth of the Mackenzie at the Arctic Ocean, it
coalesced with the great lowland ice sheet.

The distribution of the Cordilleran glaciers was controlled then,
as today, by two principal factors: high land and atmospheric mois-
ture. These controls are clearly evident in Alaska. There the thick-
est and most extensive glaciers formed on the coastal mountains, which
not only are the highest and most massive mountains in western North
America but also stand directly in the path of warm moist air masses
coming in from the Gulf of Alaska. The Brooks Range in Northern
Alaska is lower and less massive, and faces the cold Arctic Ocean
rather than the warm Gulf of Alaska. In that range the glaciers were
correspondingly less extensive, thinner, and less active. Between the
coastal mountains and the Brooks Range the lowlands drained by
the Yukon River had no glaciers at all; this intermontane country,
although cold, was too low and too dry to support them.

’ 4¥For descriptions of the glaciation of representative districts see Kerr, 1934; Capps,
32

236639—53——17
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

In southern Yukon and northern British Columbia, where coastal
mountains are lower, enough moisture was carried across the coastal
barrier to build up a thick ice sheet in the rough but lower country
between the Coast Ranges on the west and the Rocky Mountains on
the east.

The Laurentide Ice Sheet—Most of North America east of the
Rocky Mountains was overspread during the glacial ages by a vast,
coalescent mass of ice to which the name Laurentide Ice Sheet has
been given (G. M. Dawson, 1890, p. 162).5 The area of this glacial
carapace at its maximum probably exceeded 5 million square miles.
Its exact eastern limits are not known because the ice extended to sea-
ward of the present coast and the evidence is therefore submerged.
To the north the vast glacier covered the southern and eastern islands
of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and overspread the network of
narrow straits that separated them. Whether the most northerly and
westerly islands were ever wholly buried beneath ice is not known,
simply because the geology of much of the region has never been
investigated.

The ice grew thick enough to overtop most or all of the highlands in
northeastern North America, and may possibly have reached an ex-
treme thickness of 10,000 feet, although this figure is a matter of
conjecture.

Greenland Ice Sheet..—Eastward across Baffin Bay and Davis Strait
the Greenland Ice Sheet, during the glacial ages, was thicker and more
extensive than it is today, as is clearly shown by the ubiquitous signs
of glaciation both vertically above and outward beyond the existing
ice sheet. It can hardly be doubted that the Greenland and Lauren-
tide ice bodies were firmly coalescent across the narrow straits that
separate northwest Greenland from Ellesmere Island. It is even pos-
sible that the two ice sheets, partly aground and partly afloat, were
coalescent across Baffin Bay and Davis Strait.

Despite its great area, the Greenland Ice Sheet failed to cover the
extreme northeastern tip of Greenland, just as it fails to do today.
The explanation lies in lack of nourishment. In that region the pre-
cipitation is now very small, and during the glacial ages it must have
been as small or smaller, literally starving the northeastern tip of
the Greenland Ice Sheet.

GROWTH AND DISAPPEARANCE OF THE GLACIERS

The hypothesis that best fits the facts now known is that each of the
glacial ages began with a world-wide gradual reduction of tempera-
ture. In consequence the proportion of snowfall to rainfall increased,

*¥For good descriptions of some of the glacial features see Bell, 1890; J. W. Dawson,
1893 ; Tanner, 1944, pp. 173-253.
® Systematically discussed in Kayser, 1928.
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 249

and the melting of fallen snow during the summer diminished. All
of this, quite understandably, resulted in the enlargement of glaciers
existing in the higher mountains and in the appearance of many new
glaciers in mountainous districts. There can be little doubt that in
Arctic North America the first crop of glaciers took form in the two
great mountain regions: the Alaska- Yukon region and the Greenland-
Ellesmere Island-Baffin Island-Labrador-Quebec region.

The probable growth of the glaciers in the Alaska- Yukon region is
not difficult to trace. Individual mountain glaciers enlarged, thick-
ened, and coalesced. Many of them spread out beyond the bases of
the mountains as piedmont glaciers. In southern Yukon and north-
ern British Columbia the ice bodies flowing eastward from the Coast
Ranges and those flowing westward from the Rocky Mountains
coalesced over the rough but somewhat lower country between them,
and the combined mass thickened and grew into an ice sheet that
nearly overtopped the high mountains themselves. Geological evi-
dence shows clearly that the ice, when near its maximum extent, flowed
from the lower interior country westward across the higher coastal
mountains to the Pacific.

The growth of the glacier ice in the eastern part of the continent is
less clearly evident, but the probable course of events was similar.
Through the use of what scanty direct evidence we have, and by
analogy with better-known regions, we can conjecture that on each
of the highlands along the northeastern border of the continent proper,
and in Greenland, the new crop of glaciers expanded until they coa-
lesced, as did those in the far west. Recent seismic measurements, by
the Expéditions Polaires Francaises, of the bedrock surface beneath the
Greenland Ice Sheet have suggested the possibility that the land mass
of Greenland consists of three separate islands which have been buried
beneath the Greenland Ice Sheet.

Glaciers descending the western slopes of the mountains of Elles-
mere and Baffin Islands, and of Labrador and Quebec, formed a pied-
mont apron of ice that chilled the air above it and thus drew snowfall
from the comparatively moist air masses that approached it from the
south and southwest. The added snowfall increased the thickness of
the ice, which thereby gradually became a topographic barrier to the
southerly and southwesterly winds, as well as a cold-air barrier or
polar front. Snowfall was thereby still further increased, which in
turn thickened the ice and increased its outward spread.

The high cold front of the combined glacier crept slowly westward
and southward, fed by moisture brought to it by the winds it inter-
cepted. At the same time the ice thickened until it buried, or nearly
buried, the highlands along the northeast coast on which the earliest
glaciers had formed. The ice, now the full-fledged Laurentide Ice
Sheet, flowed across the broad, shallow Hudson Bay depression and
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

up the long gentle slope of the plains country to the west. Its uphill
course was made possible by its great thickness. Ultimately it met
the piedmont glaciers flowing eastward from the Rocky Mountains
and merged with them to form a continuous glacial mantle that
stretched from the Labrador Sea to the Gulf of Alaska, broken only
by high mountain peaks. The line along which the two ice masses
merged shifted its position from time to time, but it was never far
east of the Rocky Mountain front. This line lay along the general
course of the Mackenzie and Liard Rivers, through the vicinities of
Fort Nelson and Dawson Creek, and passed west of Calgary and
Lethbridge, to the southern limit of the ice at the International Boun-
dary. 'That rock debris was brought to this line by both glaciers is
shown by exposures of overlapping glacial deposits, one layer con-
taining Rocky Mountain stones, another containing stones brought
from the region west of Hudson Bay, and still another layer contain-
ing a mixture of both.

The transport of stones to western Alberta from the country im-
mediately west of Hudson Bay involved not only a journey of many
hundreds of miles but also a vertical lift amounting to more than 4,000
feet. In order to accomplish the lift, the ice sheet must have had a
thickness considerably in excess of this value. It is not probable,
however, that the ice sheet, when at its maximum, was thickest at its
geographical center and thinner elsewhere. The probability is that
the ice was thickest at its eastern and southern marginal areas—the
areas that intercepted the largest amounts of atmospheric moisture—
and that elsewhere the ice was thinner. The glacial striations and
other geologic evidence of direction of flow of the ice are still too
scanty to justify definite conclusions, but such facts as we have are
consistent with this concept.

If this was the case, then the flow of the spreading ice was most
active in the southern peripheral zone and was least active in the
vast interior and northern areas. Furthermore, most of the ice mark-
ings left on the bedrock and the localized accumulations of glacial
drift deposited on the surface must have been made during the waning
of the ice sheet; for the majority of the markings and accumulations
made earlier would have been erased or reshaped by later movement.

Floating shelves of glacier ice, like the shelf off northern Elles-
mere Island today, undoubtedly fringed many coasts. Beyond the
shelves the sea ice was far more extensive and more nearly continuous
than it is today. Pack ice filled not only the Arctic Ocean but also
the Bering Sea and the Greenland and Labrador seas, and reached
into the North Atlantic beyond the southern coasts of Greenland and
Iceland.

The state of exploration of Arctic North America permits us as yet
to sketch only the general outlines of the deglaciation—the shrinkage

le
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 951

cf the glaciers from their former great extent. As recorded by a
variety of features, chiefly in the glacial drift, the shrinkage seems
to have been generally concentric, inward toward a “last stand” of the
shrunken main body of the ice sheet in the regions of Hudson Bay
and the Quebec-Labrador highlands. But wherever there were con-
spicuous highlands their cold and moist climates favored the per-
sistence of glacier ice upon them. Thus southeastern Quebec, Labra-
dor, and Baffin and Ellesmere Islands and their high-standing neigh-
bors, as well as Greenland, continued to nourish glaciers of various
kinds separate from the main residual ice body. Some of these sepa-
rate glaciers, notably the Greenland Ice Sheet, persist today despite
a somewhat unfavorable climate and conspicuous contemporary
shrinkage.

EVIDENCE OF REPEATED GLACIAL AGES

Most of the evidence that glaciation was repeated comes from the
temperate region, where the southern margins of the great glaciers
piled up at least four overlapping layers of drift, each separated from
the one below it by a zone of deep weathering-decomposition that in-
dicates a lapse of perhaps hundreds of thousands of years. During
each glacial age most of the arctic region lay beneath ice, and in the
mountainous areas the intensity of glacial erosion favored the destruc-
tion of earlier-formed drifts. Hence, as yet, the Arctic has contributed
little to our growing knowledge of the succession of glacial ages. In
no arctic locality has clear evidence of more than two glacial ages
yet come to light. Ifthe Arctic alone were considered, this fact might
be taken to mean that glaciers continued to cover much of the arctic
region during the interglacial ages proved to exist in lower latitudes.
But when the whole glaciated region is examined, such a condition is
seen to be very improbable, for the fossil plants and animals contained
in some of the interglacial deposits imply arctic climates as warm as,
or warmer than, those of today. This in turn implies very widespread
deglaciation.

Within the arctic region perhaps the best evidence of repeated gla-
ciation is a series of exposures in the district south and west of James
Bay (McLearn, 1927, pp. 30C-31C). Here, between two sheets of till,
is a layer of peat, the compressed remains of a spruce-pine-birch-fir
forest. Clearly there were two glaciations of this district and, al-
though the length of the intervening time is not evident, it is probable
that both glaciations are of very late date.

In the Carmacks district, Yukon, there are present two till sheets
of which the younger contains firm, fresh stones while the stones in the
older are thoroughly decomposed. A long interglacial process of soil
formation is indicated (Bostock, 1936, p. 48).
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

In the sea cliffs of Herschel Island, in the Beaufort Sea west of the
mouth of the Mackenzie River, extensive beds of soil and clay con-
taining twigs and at least one log are exposed (O’Neill, 1924, p. 12).
Again, near the mouth of the Ikpikpuk River, on the arctic coast of
Alaska east of Point Barrow, spruce logs occur in the sediments of
the coastal plain (Smith and Mertie, 1930, p. 254). Large logs are
found in the superficial deposits of the Kuzitrin lowland north of
Nome, Alaska (Collier et al., 1908, pp. 89, 91). Little is known
about these deposits but, as their localities lie beyond the present
poleward limit of trees, the material may be interglacial. We cannot
state the inference more strongly than this, because the possibility
that the twigs and logs were simply driftwood, perhaps from distant
points of origin, has not been eliminated.

There is clear evidence of at least two glacial ages in the frozen
ground in the Yukon River basin in central Alaska, although the
region was never glaciated because it is low, dry, and subject to warm
summers. This country is underlain by thick beds of silt, deposited
mainly by the Yukon and other rivers. As it lies within the arctic belt
of perennially frozen ground, most of the silt is frozen to depths
reaching hundreds of feet. Mining operations have exposed extensive
sections of the silt, overlain by thick mudflow deposits consisting of
thawed silt, now refrozen. Such sections furnish evidence of an epi-
sode of deep thaw that intervened between two episodes of deep
freezing (Taber, 1943). As freezing and thawing well below the
surface take place slowly, a long interval of warmth is indicated.
These events, however, have not yet been firmly dated.

In northern British Columbia and also on the east coast of Green-
land the forms of major valleys seem to indicate a period of deep
stream trenching that occurred between two periods of glaciation.

These are the scattered pieces of evidence of repeated glaciation de-
rived from the arctic region. Many more will be discovered, but they
are not likely to approach either in quantity or quality the records
from the southern margin of the glaciated region.

A great variety of evidence has established the belief that since the
latest of the glacial ages reached its peak several tens of thousands
of years ago and began to wane, the climate has not become continu-
ously milder. The record shows that in northern Europe and tem-
perate North America, at least, climates attained a maximum of
warmth and dryness roughly 5,000 years ago; since when, conditions
have become appreciably cooler and wetter. It has been shown that
some of the glaciers in western United States had dwindled away or
disappeared entirely during the period of warmth and were later re-
born. Arctic America is not likely to have undergone so drastic a
change because of its cooler climate, but nevertheless it is likely that
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 253

all the arctic glaciers underwent at least some reduction in size during
the warm period. Future research is likely to bring forth evidence
that this reduction occurred.

GLACIAL LAKES

The great deglaciation that has been in very irregular progress
throughout the last few tens of thousands of years was accompanied
by the appearance of many temporary lakes, held in between glacier
ice on one side and sloping ground on the other. Most of the lakes
were localized in preglacial stream valleys, depressions that could be
converted into basins by glacial erosion, or damming by ice, or both.
Some of the most conspicuous preglacial valleys had developed along
the contact between the igneous and metamorphic pre-Cambrian rocks
of the Canadian Shield and the surrounding Paleozoic sedimentary
rocks. Major lakes of today, such as Great Bear and Great Slave
Lakes and Lake Winnipeg, consist of segments of these valleys con-
verted into lake basins by glacial action. These, together with other
lakes in the region west of Hudson Bay (notably Lake Athabaska and
Wollaston, Reindeer, Cree, and Lesser Slave Lakes), show by the
abundance of lake deposits and abandoned strandlines in the terrain
surrounding them that they were considerably larger during the
shrinkage of the ice sheet than they are at present.

The two larger lakes formed partly within the arctic region during
the deglaciation have almost entirely disappeared. Lake Agassiz ex-
tended from latitude 46°N., in Minnesota, nearly to latitude 58°N.,
in northern Manitoba, and had an area equal to that of the existing
Great Lakes combined. It was held in on the north and east by the
edge of the ice sheet, and when this melted away the water drained off
to Hudson Bay, leaving a few basins, Lakes Winnipeg and Winnipe-
gosis, to contain residual pools. Lake Ojibway-Barlow, south of
James Bay, was held in in the same manner. It stretched from the
76th meridian to the 88th, and when glacial melting destroyed its
northern shore it drained away, leaving upon the bedrock surface a
veneer of silt and clay to mark its former extent. This is the well-
known “clay belt” which has made a wide region possible for agricul-
ture, in contrast with the rocky country surrounding it.

THE POSTGLACIAL SEA AND RISE OF THE LAND

The greater part of the coastline of Arctic North America is fringed
with superficial deposits of sand and silt, in places containing the fos-
sil shells and bones of marine animals. Throughout great distances
these deposits are fashioned into beaches, bars, and other shore
features sweeping along the contour of gently sloping terrain. Shore
_ and sea-floor deposits of this kind form a discontinuous belt that varies
254. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

greatly in width. Along steep coasts, such as those of Labrador and
British Columbia, the deposits are narrow and very discontinuous,
consisting of hardly more than local patches. Along gently sloping
coasts, such as the coast of Hudson Bay, they increase to form a belt
more than 150 miles wide, and in the Thelon River basin, northwest
of Hudson Bay, the width of the belt exceeds 400 miles. The greatest
height of the marine features above present sea level likewise varies
from one part of the coast to another. This height commonly reaches
500 feet; and, at a few points, it has been observed to reach as much as
900 feet. In contrast, in northwestern Alaska it is not certain that
marine deposits extend above the present level of the sea. In general
the height increases with increasing proximity to the Hudson Bay
region, which lies near the geographical center of the area covered by
the former ice sheet.

In the few places where exposed sections of these deposits have been
examined, they are seen to rest upon the glacial drift. Hence the
marine sediments postdate the glaciation. The phenomenon of ma-
rine deposits overlying glacial drift is known also in southeastern
Canada and New England, and is still better known along the Baltic
Sea coasts of Sweden and Finland. The explanation now widely ac-
cepted is that the weight of an ice sheet causes the earth’s crust be-
neath it to subside slowly. As the great glacier shrinks, the sea
inundates the subsided crust, which is slowly rising (though with a
considerable time lag) owing to reduction of the glacial load. At
first the sea rests against shores of glacier ice. But as the ice sheet
shrinks and as the crust rises, the shoreline is transferred to the
ground vacated by the ice and is forced to retreat little by little. Thus
are explained the marine cover and the successive shorelines at ever-
decreasing levels. Evidently, then, during an earlier phase of the
process of postglacial uplift, Hudson Bay was very much larger than
it is now.

There are indications of various kinds that the upheaval is still in
progress. Prominent among these are the occurrence at several lo-
calities of Eskimo dwellings, built near the shoreline, and fish traps,
built between high and low tide, now 30 to 80 feet above sea level (cf.
Bell, 1884, p. 37; Washburn, 1947, pp. 69-71). Calculations based on
the probable amount of depression of the crust under the ice sheet,
and on the uplift already accomplished, indicate that in the region
of Hudson Bay some additional hundreds of feet of uplift are to be
expected before the crustal equilibrium that prevailed before glaci-
ation will have been restored. From this it follows that Hudson Bay
will gradually become still smaller. In fact it is probable that by the
time the movement has ended, the Bay will have become once more a
broad plain drained by a master stream flowing north. There is
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 255

reason to believe that in preglacial time this master stream included
the drainage of the Missouri River in North Dakota and Montana, but
that that drainage was diverted toward the south by the expanding
ice sheet.

The absence of highly elevated marine features from the western
and northern coasts of Alaska results probably from the fact that
western and northern Alaska were but scantily covered with ice, so
that disturbance of crustal equilibrium there was small. Postglacial
emergence of the Pacific coast of Alaska and British Columbia has
been conspicuous; this is in keeping with the known thick cover of
glacier ice in that coastal region.

CHRONOLOGY AND CAUSES OF GLACIATION

The North American Arctic yields very little direct information
either on the actual dates of events in the glacial past or on the prob-
able causes of the glacial climates. Our knowledge of these matters,
still very scanty at best, comes chiefly from the glacial drift sheets
in the temperate zones of North America and Europe. Until the
use of the radiocarbon method of dating, developed by Libby (1952),
it was assumed that the time elapsed since the shrinking ice sheet
began to uncover the very young Mankato drift was 25,000 years.
Radiocarbon measurements of wood from the Two Creeks peat, im-
mediately underlying the Mankato drift, has shown that the age of
the wood is only about 11,000 years (Flint and Deevey, 1951). As
yet the radiocarbon method is directly applicable only to organic
matter less than 30,000 years old. Therefore the degree of chemical
alteration of each of the several drift sheets still furnishes the best
chronology, inaccurate though it is. At present the lengths of the
glacial ages can only be guessed at, but they are widely regarded as
having been much shorter than the interglacial ages. The whole
group of four glacial and three interglacial ages together is believed
to have lasted roughly one million years.

Because the interglacial times are believed to have been longer than
the glacial times, the Arctic has been largely free of a glacier-ice
covering during the greater part of the Pleistocene epoch. However,
whatever thin soils may have been developed over the surface of the
bedrock during the ice-free interglacial ages were almost wholly
swept away by the intervening glaciations.

The fluctuations in the mean annual temperatures of temperate
latitudes during the Pleistocene epoch seem to have been no more than
10°C.—roughly 8° colder than now during the glacial ages and 2°
warmer than now during the interglacial ages. The causes of these re-
peated fluctuations constitute a much-debated question to which var-
. lous answers have been given. To me the cause appears to have been
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

twofold (Flint, 1947). The first factor was a conspicuous world-wide
elevation of the lands in general and of many mountain ranges in
particular, during the epoch immediately preceeding the Pleistocene
and continuing into the Pleistocene epoch itself. This elevation
in itself reduced surface temperatures in several ways, though alone
it cannot explain repeated temperature fluctuation. The second fac-
tor is an assumed fluctuation in the rate at which radiant energy is
emitted by the sun. Small present-day fluctuations are currently
observed, but the larger fluctuations necessary to form glaciers on
the highlands must be assumed. These two factors constitute a rea-
sonable and, it seems, probable explanation of the glacial and inter-
glacial ages, though the second factor is not at present capable of proof.

EFFECT OF GLACIATION ON LIFE

The present-day flora of the North American Arctic includes few
endemic forms. There can be little doubt that glacial-age conditions
in the glaciated regions almost wholly extinguished the plant cover,
which was renewed after each glacial age by immigration from the
nonglaciated territory. Probably the principal arctic refuge within
which plants with sufficient hardihood survived the glacial ages lay
in nonglaciated areas in central Alaska and the adjacent parts of
the Yukon. In addition, repopulation of the arctic flora must have
taken place to a considerable extent from the belt of country lying
south of the southern limits of glaciation.

If, during the glacial times, there was a conspicuous belt of tundra
at the southern margin of the ice sheet, there is little evidence of its
former presence. Most of the comparatively few exposures of plant-
bearing deposits immediately overlying the drift sheets yield floras,
dominated by spruce and fir, such as characterize the subarctic forest
of the present day. It seems likely, therefore, that the subarctic
forest generally reached close to the margin of the ice sheet and that
the intervening belt of tundra was narrow. Along the arctic coast be-
tween Point Barrow and the Mackenzie River, as already noted, there
are suggestions of tree growth, presumably during some interglacial
time (unless the wood in question is merely driftwood).

Evidence of the effect of the glacial ages on animal life in the far
north is very slight, chiefly because there has been little systematic
search for fossils. We can be quite sure that in the glacier-covered
areas animal life was completely extinguished. The change was grad-
ual, and took place through slow migration, generally toward the
south, as each glacial age developed. During the interglacial ages
the glaciated tracts were repopulated with at least some of their former
inhabitants. In the arctic regions, as elsewhere, the Pleistocene record
is one of repeated wholesale shifts of faunal assemblages rather than

ain i i
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 257

one of conspicuous evolutionary changes in the animals themselves.
On the other hand, cold-climate adaptations did appear in such Pleisto-
cene mammals as the woolly mammoth and the musk ox—adaptations
that are unknown in the fauna of the preceding Pliocene epoch.

The only extensive Pleistocene mammal] fauna thus far collected in
Arctic North America comes from the nonglaciated interior region of
Alaska and western Yukon. Here, in frozen muck and silt, has been
found a rich collection (Frick, 1930; Stock, 1942 ; Quackenbush, 1909),
that includes mammal types both extinct and still living. Among the
extinct forms are the short-faced bear (Arctotherium yukonensis),
dire wolf (Aenocyon dirus), great cat (Panthera atrox), ground sloths
(Megalonyx and Nothrotherium), camel (Camelops), great bison
(Bison crassicornis), oviboids (Symbos tyrrelli and Bodtherium sar-
gent) , horse (Equus alaskae), woolly mammoth (Mammonteus primi-
genius), and mastodon (Mammut americanum). Forms still living
include lion, peccary, reindeer, moose, bighorn sheep, saiga antelope,
Rocky Mountain goat, and the musk ox. The deposits from which
the bones are taken have been thought to be of interglacial age, but
the assemblage of fossil animals implies such different habitats that
both glacial and interglacial faunas are suggested. The ground sloths,
peccary, camel, and lion suggest a warmer climate than do the woolly
mammoth, musk ox, and reindeer.” A more extensive study of the
deposits may reveal that they are of more than one Pleistocene date.

Elephant bones and ivory are widespread in northwestern Alaska,
together with fossil horse, musk ox, and beaver (Smith and Mertie,
1930, p. 252). Fossil elephant remains, not generically identified,
have been found in the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands (G. M. Dawson,
1894; Bell, 1898, p. 374). Teeth ascribed to the Columbian elephant
have been found near Edmonton and on an island in James Bay (Bell,
1898, pp. 3870, 372). Mastodon bones have been collected from the
Moose River near Moose Factory on James Bay and from the district
west of Lake Winnipegosis (Bell, 1898, pp. 383, 387; Hay, 1923,
p. 166). Fossil musk ox, reindeer, and seal occur in the younger de-
posits of Ellesmere Island (Hay, 1923, p. 244).

These scattered bits of information hardly provide a firm basis for
reconstructing a picture of the arctic plants and animals of the various
Pleistocene ages. All we can say with probability is that during the
glacial ages the transition zone between tundra and subarctic forest
was pushed far south of the Great Lakes region and that during inter-
glacial ages it reached somewhat farther north than it does at present.
This particular zone is recorded not only by fossil plants but by the

™Hven the Columbian elephant (Mammuthus columbi) has been reported from Alaska
(Bell, 1898, p. 371). If correctly identified, this form would suggest a warmer-than-glacial
climate.
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

distribution of the woolly mammoth, outstandingly an inhabitant of
this zone. The various musk oxen generally preferred the open
tundra; in contrast, the mastodon and moose inhabited the subarctic
forest.

It is well known that many of the large mammals that inhabited
northern North America during Pleistocene ages were immigrants
from northern Asia via the Bering Strait bridge. The strait is both
narrow and shallow. It could have become land at one or more times
as a result of a moderate lowering of sea level, such as is known to have
occurred during each glacial age when water was abstracted from the
sea to build the great terrestrial glaciers. A slight warping of the
earth’s crust in the Alaska-Siberia region could also have converted
this shallow strait into land. However the land bridge may have
been made, there is little doubt that it existed and that over it moved a
varied fauna into Arctic North America. The arctic region therefore
was the corridor through which Asiatic mammals entered the New
World.

In contrast with mammals on the lands, the vertebrate life in North
American Arctic waters does not seem to have undergone conspicuous
changes, probably because temperatures were fairly low during the
interglacial as well as the glacial ages. The chief differences thus far
noted consist of slight changes in postglacial faunal assemblages.
These changes are attributable to increased salinity of the sea water,
as dilution with glacial meltwater diminished, and to decreased depth,
as continuing crustal uplift elevated the sea floors (Richards, 1937).

Among the mammals that crossed from Asia into North America
via the Bering Strait bridge was man. He came in several, perhaps
many, groups, over a considerable period of time. Very likely he
followed some of the migrating game animals as a hunter.

Just where, or through how long a time, the diffusion of people
from Asia into Arctic North America took place, is not known. It
has been established that man was well settled in southern North
America at the time when the Mankato expansion of the Laurentide
Ice Sheet reached its maximum, roughly 10,000 years age. But how
long he had been there is still a question. When that question is an-
vend: and when the climatic and ecological circumstances of the
whole immigration become known, the arctic region will undoubtedly
assume a new and important perspective in the history of man in
America.
ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICAN ARCTIC—FLINT 259

REFERENCES

BELL, ROBERT.

1884. Observations on the geology, mineralogy, zoology, and botany of the
Labrador coast, Hudson’s Strait and Bay. In Report of the Hud-
son’s Bay Expedition, under the command of Lieut. A. R. Gordon,
R. N., 1884, pp. 20-40. Dept. of Marine, Ottawa.

1890. On glacial phenomena in Canada. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 1, pp.
287-310.

1898. On the occurrence of mammoth and mastodon remains around Hudson
Bay. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 9, pp. 8369-390.

Bostock, H. S8.
1936. Carmacks district, Yukon. Geol. Surv. Canada Mem. 189, 67 pp.
BrRaAbDLeEy, W. H., et al.

1940. Geology and biology of North Atlantic deep-sea cores between New-

foundland and Ireland. U.S. Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 196A, 56 pp.
Capps, S. R.

1932. Glaciation in Alaska. In Shorter contributions to general geology,

1931. U.S. Geol. Sury. Prof. Pap. 170, pp. 1-8.
Coiuier, A. J., et al.

1908. The gold placers of parts of Seward Peninsula, Alaska. U. S. Geol.

Surv. Bull. 328, 348 pp.
Dawson, G. M.

1890. On the glaciation of the northern part of the Cordillera. ... Amer.
Geol., vol. 6, pp. 153-162.

1894. Notes on the occurrence of mammoth-remains in the Yukon district
of Canada and in Alaska. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 50,
pp. 1-9.

Dawson, J. W.

1893. The Canadian ice age. Being notes on the Pleistocene geology of
Canada, with especial reference to the life of the period and its
climatal conditions. 301 pp. Montreal.

DEMOREST, MAx.
1948. Ice sheets. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 54, pp. 363-400.
Furnt, R. F.

1943. Growth of North American ice sheet during the Wisconsin age. Bull.
Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 54, pp. 325-362.

1947. Glacial geology and the Pleistocene epoch. 589 pp. New York.

F.int, R. F., et al.

1945. Glacial map of North America. Geol. Soc. Amer. Spec. Pap. No. 60,

pt. 1, map; pt. 2, bibliography and explanatory notes. 387 pp.
FLuint, R. F., and DEEVEY, E. 8.
1951. Radiocarbon dating of late-Pleistocene events. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol.
249, pp. 257-300.
FRicK, CHILDS.
1980. Alaska’s frozen fauna. Nat. Hist., vol. 30, pp. 71-80.
Hay, O. P.

1923. The Pleistocene of North America and its vertebrated animals from
the States east of the Mississippi River and from the Canadian
provinces east of longitude 95°. Carnegie Inst. Washington Publ.
322, 499 pp.
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

KAYSER, OLAF.

1928. The inland ice [of Greenland]. In Greenland, vol. 1, pp. 357-422.
Commission for Geol. and Geogr. Investigations in Greenland. Co-
penhagen and London.

Kerp, FE, A.
1934. Glaciation in northern British Columbia. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada,
ser. 3, vol. 28, sect. 4, pp. 17-31.
Lissy, W. F.
1952. Radiocarbon dating. 124 pp. Chicago.
McLearn, F. H.

1927. The Mesozoic and Pleistocene deposits of the lower Missinaibi, Opaza-
tika, and Mattagami Rivers, Ontario. Geol. Surv. Canada Summ.
Rep. 1926, pp. 16C-47C.

O’NEILL, J. J.

1924. The geology of the arctic coast of Canada, west of the Kent Peninsula.

Rep. Canadian Arctic Exped. 1913-18, vol. 11, pt. A, 107 pp. Ottawa.
QUACKENBUSH, L. 8.

1909. Notes on Alaskan mammoth expeditions of 1907 and 1908. Bull. Amer.

Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 26, pp. 87-130.
Ricuarps, H. G.

1937. Marine Pleistocene mollusks as indicators of time and ecological con-
ditions. In Early man (ed. by G. G. MacCurdy), pp. 74-84. Phila-
delphia and New York.

SmirH, P. S., and Merttr, J. B., JR.
1930. Geology and mineral resources of northwestern Alaska. U. S. Geol.
Surv. Bull. 815, 351 pp.
Stock, CHESTER.
1942. A ground sloth in Alaska. Science, n. s., vol. 95, pp. 552-553.
TABER, STEPHEN.

1943. Perennially frozen ground in Alaska: its origin and history. Bull.

Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 54, pp. 1433-1548.
TANNER, V.

1944. Outlines of the geography, life and customs of Newfoundland-Labra-
dor (the eastern part of the Labrador peninsula). Acta Geographica
Fenniae, vol. 8, No. 1, 909 pp.

WasHpBourn, A. L.

1947. Reconnaissance geology of portions of Victoria Island and adjacent

regions, Arctic Canada. Geol. Soc. Amer. Mem. 22, 142 pp.
Witson, J. T.

1939. Eskers northeast of Great Slave Lake. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, ser.
8, vol. 33, sect. 4, pp. 119-129.

1945. Further eskers east of Great Slave Lake. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada,
ser. 3, vol. 39, sect. 4, pp. 151-153.
The 1944 Eruption of Usu,
in Hokkaido, Japan’

By TakesHt MINAKAMI
Earthquake Research Institute, University of Tokyo

Tosuio ISHIKAWA
Geological Institute, University of Hokkaido

Kenzo YAGI
Institute of Earth Science, University of Tohoku

[With 6 plates]

Usv Votcano, which had been in a dormant state since 1910, again
became active at the end of 1943 and in the following 2 years gave
birth to a new composite volcanic dome, or mountain, now called
Syowa Sinzan. This dome is one of the rare examples of a volcano
whose growth and history have been traced by eyewitnesses from the
very beginning of its birth. It is, moreover, unique in the mode of
its formation, quite different from Paricutin Volcano in Mexico, for
example, also born in 1948, which is an ordinary basaltic cone with
lava flows.

The seat of the new mountain was once, like Paricutin, a cornfield,
called Kumantubo. It is now covered by numerous boulders and
blocks of lava and presents a dismal scene. An upheaval of the
ground fissured the cultivated lands at the eastern foot of Mount
Usu in the early months of 1944. This was followed by more rapid
uplift in the gently sloping and partly cultivated ground adjoining
this area on the north early in April. Late in June, while this up-
heaval was still in progress, volcanic explosions began in the central
part of the rising mass which, during the succeeding three months,
formed successively seven small craterlets by the ejection of small
quantities of pyroclastic materials. About the middle of November
the ground in and about the craterlets began to be pushed up en masse
by the protrusion of a column of red-hot viscous lava to form several
huge lava masses separated by narrow crevices. In the ensuing 10

‘ 1 Revised from a report that originally appeared in Bulletin Volcanologique, ser. 2
vol. 11, 1951.

261
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

months this protrusion grew into a massive dome rising above the
previously elevated ground.

The final result of this new activity of Usu was a double volcanic
dome. The first dome, formed by the upheaval of the old ground,
is about 200 meters wide and 1,000 meters in diameter and has ter-
racelike forehills. The second dome, about 150 meters above the
first dome and 300 meters in diameter at its base, is formed by the
protrusion of a column of primitive viscous lava.

Ever since the discovery of laccoliths by G. K. Gilbert in the
Henry Mountains in the United States, the possibility of a local
upheaval of the earth’s surface has been suggested. Several cases of
remarkable upheavals of land about a crater of eruption have actually
been observed. Such a case was the eruption of Usu in 1910, when a
land mass 3 kilometers long and three-fourths kilometer wide at the
northern foot of the volcano, on the shore of Lake Toya, was raised
a maxium of 155 meters. The present activity of the same volcano
supplies another and more striking instance, proving that a land mass
can be domed by the force of the slow rise of an underlying viscous
volcanic magma.

The renewed activity of Usu offered a good opportunity for the
study of the mechanism of the birth of volcanoes in which a felsic
magma, (dacite) participated. Because the country was in the midst
of war, the volcanic activity was not investigated by a large, well-
organized expedition, but its main events were observed at intervals
by persons from several research institutes, including the Earthquake
Research Institute and the Geophysical Institute, Tokyo University;
the Central Meteorological Observatory; the Geophysical Institute
and Petrological Institute, Tohoku University; and the Geological
Institute, Hokkaido University.

PREVIOUS ERUPTIONS

Usu Volcano is situated in the southern part of Hokkaido, nearly at
the north end of the Nasu volcanic zone, which traverses the central
part of the main island, Honshu, to the middle of the north island,
Hokkaido.

According to ancient chronicles, Usu erupted four times prior to
1854—in July 1662, December 1768, November 1822, and March 1853.
All these eruptions took place on the upper part of the southern slope
of the somma, or large depression crater on the summit of the volcano.
A later striking eruption took place at the northern foot of Usu in
July-August 1910. No other information concerning the volcanic or
seismic activities of Usu Volcano is available for the years since then.

But Usu Volcano had a long history previous to the events recorded
in the chronicles. On the basis of studies by Z. Harada and S. Sasaki,
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi PLATE 1

1. KUMANTUBO AND O-USU DOME SEEN FROM NISIKOHAN BEFORE THE PRESENT
ACTIVITY

2. SYOWA SINZAN AND O-USU DOME SEEN FROM NISIKOHAN AFTER THE COMPLE-
TION OF THE NEW MOUNTAIN
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi PLATE 2

PD NEN BETTE TORTS
$4

*

1. MUD ERUPTION ON JUNE 30, 1944

. 2. ROOF MOUNTAIN AND CRATER VIEWED FROM THE NORTHEAST, SEPTEMBER
22, 1944
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi PLATE 3

1. THE VIOLENT EXPLOSION ON JULY 3, 1944

2. CRATER AT THE STAGE OF PAROXYSMAL ERUPTION

Viewed from the eastern summit of the Usu Somma, on August 5, 1944.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi PLATE 4

1. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROOF MOUNTAIN

Viewed from the north, 500 meters distant, on August 10, 1944.

2. THE NEWLY FORMED MOUNTAIN

Viewed from the south on October 15, 1948.
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi

VV6l ‘G YASOLDO ‘NIVLNNOW 3AOO0OY

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Minakami, Ishikawa, and Yagi PLATE 6

1. CRACKS ON THE RISING AREA (HUKABA), OCTOBER 5, 1944

Ets

2 pth tema

2. WARPINGS AND FOLDINGS OF SMALL SIZE SEEN IN A GULLY FORMED ON THE
FLANK OF THE FRONT MOUNTAIN
ERUPTION OF USU VOLCANO—MINAKAMI ET AL. 263

the succession of events in the geological history of the area about Usu
may be summarized as follows: (1) Effusion of rhyolitic lavas from
volcanoes in Miocene and pre-Miocene times; (2) deposition of the
Toyoura formation, consisting mainly of green tuff and tuff breccia
in Miocene times; (3) effusion of andesite lavas during Pliocene times;
(4) deposition of the Rusutu formation (gravel beds, and volcanic ash
and pumice) in early Diluvial; (5) uplift of the land in Diluvial
times; (6) depression of the Toya caldera in late Diluvial times; (7)
formation of the two volcanoes Toya-Nakazima and Usu since the end
of the Diluvial, or early Recent.

y K4 Explosion prodicts
Leke Téya VY and trp area
p ; an 1910

3209] Filling ejectas in
oo atria

paaad
Sea Tatelwa od flow
[EoSfomnes md flow
y| f-- ya Minamiby8buyama
+ ++ md flow
- Central cone lava
(Hypersthene
andesite)

Somma lava( Pyro-
xene andesite with
or without olivine)
Terrace deposits
and aluvial depo-
sits
Rusutsu formation
(Diluvium)

p

Y Andesite of pre-

Yj caldera depression
Z

Explosion crater

@
New mountain KH Xs -— Toyoura formation
Hot spring (Miocene)
Cold spring :
1 2 ““<BZX, Liparite

Ficure 1.—Geologic map of the Usu Volcano prior to the recent activity. Villages: Sobetu
(Sobetsu), Hukaba (Fukaba), Yanagihara (Yanagiwara), Kami-Osaru (Kamiosaru), Usu,
and Toya Hot Springs (Toyako Spa).

Usu Volcano itself may be considered to have been formed in the
following sequence of events: (1) Formation of the main cone and
the somma of augite hypersthene andesite lavas and fragmenta] ejecta ;
(2) growth of two central cones of hypersthene dacite lava, O-Usu
and Ko-Usu, in the somma; (8) an explosion at the foot of O-Usu, ac-
companied by a mud flow down the southern flank of the main cone;
(4) an explosion at the foot of Ko-Usu in 1822, with a mud stream
flowing down the southwestern side of the mountain; (5) an explosion
_at the base of O-Usu in 1853, in which part of the dome was blasted

away; (6) a remarkable eruption at the north foot of the mountain in
236639—53——~18
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

1910, during which the ground was elevated and 45 new craterlets were
developed; (7) the eruption in 1943-45, with the birth of a new moun-
tain, Syowa Sinzan.

The newest activity of Usu began on the evening of December 28,
1943, with a series of severe earthquakes at the northwestern foot of
the mountain, and essentially ended in September 1945 upon the
completion of the growth of the newly formed mountain. The devel-
opment of the recent eruption falls into three stages of activity; (1)
The pre-eruption stage, from December 28, 1943, when the first earth-
quake was felt, to June 22, 1944; (2) stage of paroxysmal eruptions,
with the formation of small eruptive craters, from June 23, 1944, when
the first explosion took place, to October 31, 1944; and (3) the birth
and development of the lava dome from November 1, 1944, to Sep-
tember 1945.

PRE-ERUPTION STAGE

The recent catastrophic activity started with the first perceptible
earthquake on December 28, 1943. This was followed by numerous
succeeding earthquakes, which for 3 days increased in frequency and
intensity. Although these earthquakes were perceptible throughout
the whole area around Usu Volcano, the shocks during December and
the early part of January were felt most strongly at Toya Hot Springs
at the northwestern foot of the mountain. As a result of these shocks,
some damage was caused to water pipes and plastered walls of dwell-
ing houses at Toya Hot Springs. Other earthquakes, felt only at
Yanagihara and Kami-Osaru located near the eastern foot of Usu,
increased in frequency and intensity and continued without diminu-
tion until the middle of April. During the period from December 28
to January 5 the earthquakes were felt more frequently at the north-
western base of Usu (Toya Hot Springs), but later the seismic activity
was more marked at the northeastern village of Sobetu. Accordingly,
it is evident that the hypocenters of the shocks shifted from the
northwestern or central part of Usu to its eastern foot. By comparing
the perceptible areas it was apparent that the earthquakes originating
in the first area were deeper than those at the later place. And rum-
blings accompanying the earthquakes were most strongly heard at
the northwestern skirt of the mountain during the initial seismic
activity but were more frequently heard in Yanagihara and Kami-
Osaru after the hypocenters had shifted toward the eastern foot of
Usu.

Soon after most of the earthquakes were localized at the eastern
side of Usu, a most remarkable phenomenon occurred. The ground
about the epicenter of the shocks began to rise rapidly. The roads,
railways, irrigation canals, and the Osaru River and its tributaries
ERUPTION OF USU VOLCANO—MINAKAMI ET AL. 265

here run from north to south. As a result of the upheaval of the
ground that now took place the roads and other passages were cut off
by cracks and dislocations in the ground, rendering the area im-
passable. The underground waters, too, were considerably disturbed.
Villagers in the disturbed area no longer had water for drinking and
irrigation, while in the adjoining villages the wells and fountains
overflowed.

From March to the middle of April the rising area stretched along
the Kami-Osaru—Yanagihara road for a distance of 4 kilometers. The
greatest rise, as determined by leveling, was 16 meters, or at a rate of
30 centimeters per day. Just at this stage the locus of rising shifted
about a kilometer toward the north from Yanagihara to Hukaba and
the adjoining cornfield at Kumantubo, where numerous cracks of vari-
ous size and disposition were formed.

As soon as the rising area had shifted northward, the earthquakes,
which are believed to have had an extremely shallow origin, occurred
directly below Hukaba. After the middle of June more than 100
shocks per day were experienced there and reached 250 shocks on the
day preceding the first paroxysmal explosion, June 23. It is needless
to say that during this early stage of activity, which had now en-
dured for 6 months, the inhabitants of the area were extremely un-
easy, wondering when volcanic explosions would occur and where the
craters would open. The maximum upheaval during this stage
reached a height of 50 meters.

STAGE OF PAROXYSMAL ERUPTION

On June 23, 1944, the eruptive column of the first explosion was ob-
served, rising noiselessly from the northwestern corner of the corn-
field at Kumantubo. This explosion gradually increased in intensity,
hurling mud, ashes, and blocks of rock from a newly formed crater.
Simultaneously a mud stream flowed from the crater, pouring into a
nearby depression to form a pond of mud and hot water. After
several hours of recurring mud flows the eruption came to an end,
leaving a calm pool of hot, muddy water in the bottom of the crater.
After a few hours of quiescence, steam again began to rise and activity
was resumed with the spouting of muddy water. The activity con-
tinued variable; at its height blocks were thrown as high as 800 meters.

A strong explosion of similar type occurred on the morning of June
27, when a second vent opened near the first. Activity in the first
crater gradually diminished, the muddy explosion shifting to the
new vent.

The eruptive activity bore a striking resemblance to the phenom-
enon of a geyser. It appears that these muddy eruptions were not
- caused by the pressure of gases emitted by the fresh lava but by the
pressure of steam generated by the heat of the new magma. Since
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

there is no need here to describe the mechanism of geysers, it will suf-
fice to suggest the source of the water of these mud eruptions. Ac-
cording to the inhabitants of Hukaba, a group of springs formerly
existed at the village, the water of which was used in the hatching
ponds for salmon and trout, because of its constant temperature and
abundant supply throughout the year. There was also a fountain
that supplied drinking water to the farmers in the cornfield. Both
indicate an ample source of underground water in the area.

cy Explosion crater
x Smoke

x

/ Ss
Matsumoto yama 238 Height measured by

barometer

Figure 2.—A sketch map of the newly formed mountain, Syowa Sinzan, on June 2, 1946.

ASH EXPLOSIONS

On July 2 tremendous explosions lasting about 5 hours spread a
large amount of ash over the surrounding terrain. The total amount
of ejecta for these explosions was estimated at 2,000,000 metric tons
and the energy expended at 1.410” ergs. This paroxysmal explosion
was, both in volume of ejectamenta and in intensity, more furious than
the numerous explosions that succeeded it. Another severe explosion
occurred the next morning, ejecting material estimated at 100,000
metric tons over a large area toward the southwest side of Usu. But
no new crater was opened by these two explosions. After these marked
outbursts, further strong explosions did not occur until July 10, al-
though columns of steam were intermittently observed from Sobetu.

The abundant ash which fell upon the area did much damage to the
corn and potato fields, and the inhabitants of Hukaba were compelled
to abandon their homes and take refuge in other parts, carrying their
household effects with them.
ERUPTION OF USU VOLCANO—MINAKAMI ET AL. 267

After the early eruptive outbreaks of July, moderate and violent
paroxysmal eruptions occurred successively for more than 3 months
until October 31. The main explosions were dated as follows: July
11 and 15, August 1, 5, and 26, September 9, 23, and 27, October 1, 16,
and 31. OnJuly 11, a new large crater (the third crater) was opened,
and thereafter the issuing vapor increased remarkably. The fourth
crater was formed on August 26, the fifth one on September 9, the
sixth and seventh ones in October. All the craters were arranged
in an arc opening to the north. The seven craters opened close to one
another; the earlier ones were buried under the detritus and ash of
the later explosions, and after September 1944 they hardly retained

L-ERODEK MOUNTAIN." . “CAP

a
2,

a
2
a
a
ai
a
a
a
a
a

Figure 3.—Geologic map of the newly formed mountain Syowa Sinzan. (After K. Yagi
and J. Z. Okamoto.)

their original forms. No incandescent bombs and blocks were found,
but the blocks, ash, and mud ejected in later eruptions had a higher
temperature than the earlier ones of June and July. Several of the
craters were dry, indicating a temperature higher than boiling water ;
others when active always contained hot water.

During August and September, when paroxysmal eruptions oc-
curred, blasts loaded with heavy ash occasionally descended on Nisi-
kohan village, 1 kilometer north of the craters, breaking windowpanes
and even occasionally blowing off the roofs of houses. Fortunately,
these ash avalanches were not sufficiently hot to ignite wooden mate-
rials, but only in this respect did they differ from a “nuée ardente”
(hot avalanche). It seems that the genesis of the hot avalanches is
- mechanically related to the existence of the “belonite” of the “crypto-
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

dome” of solid lava, as yet unrevealed, and that the phenomenon de-
pended on the direction initally taken by the ejected materials. A
plug or cover closing a crater vent prevents juvenile gas from free
exit into the air. Accumulated gas sometimes tries to escape from the
plug’s marginal foot, and accordingly ejected materials may be shot
out obliquely. Or the gas may move the plug or the cover by its
strong pressure, and squeeze through some newly formed weak zone
along the marginal side of the plug. In such cases the initial direc-
tion of ejected materials is not vertical, but oblique. There was such
an inclined vent in the Ansei crater of Komagatake Volcano, where
ash avalanches occurred in 1942. In other cases, as in the 1902
eruption of Pelée, the hot avalanche (nuée ardente) was caused by
the abrupt exposure of the incandescent interior of the newly formed
lava dome, and its destruction. As a result, lava blocks of larger
size would roll down along the steep slope in the form of a landslide,
accelerated by gravity, and the escaped vapor, containing dense, fine
materials, both at high temperature, would rise into the air by
adiabatic expansion.

During the paroxysmal eruptions from July to October, extremely
shallow earthquakes took place at Hukaba, immediately below the
rising area. The epicentral areas, including the newly formed craters,
continued to rise without cease. Toward the end of October, the
cornfields, which formerly were 130 to 180 meters above sea level,
were now nearly 100 meters higher and formed a flat dome-shaped
mountain about half a kilometer square in area.

By the end of October the dwelling houses of Hukaba village and
the roads passing through the village were entirely devastated, more
by the severe rise of the area than by the deposit of ash and other
ejecta. The railway running along the east foot of the newly formed
mountain was destroyed, first by the cracks and the upheaval of the
ground, then later by a lateral movement from the active center.
As a result, the roads and railways were compelled to move 60 meters
and 20 meters toward the east. The Sobetu River, running parallel
to the railway, was dammed by the upheaval of the river bed to form
a temporary lake 1 kilometer long. Owing to the changes in the
courses of the running water on and around the rising area, mud
streams carrying ash, soil, and detritus, especially after a heavy rain,
came down from unexpected directions and ravaged the downstream
area.

BIRTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE LAVA DOME

Early in November the paroxysmal eruptions ceased, and soon
one could see from Nisikohan a black mass close to the site
of the craters. By the middle of December this appeared from
Sobetu like a peak of pyramidal shape. Ten months after the first
ERUPTION OF USU VOLCANO—MINAKAMI ET AL. 269

precursor earthquake, the lava at last appeared, extruding as a solid
from the earth’s surface. It grew more and more as shown in figure
4, its development accompanied by numerous earthquakes and marked
deformation of the topography. According to seismometric observa-
tions these earthquakes differed greatly from those previously ob-
served. According to observations by Mimatsu, postmaster of Sobetu
village, a black conical tower, about 25 meters in height, could first
be distinctly made out on January 10, 1945, during the few days when
it stood revealed from the enveloping white smoke. Its top part in-
clined to the north at the end of January but soon tilted to the south.

ROOF MOUNTAIN
. 2T4™
: BEES wr ye a =

eee an es
+4°¥ 4+
REM PARI

[."]5 iio

Ficure 4.—Profile of the new mountain, Syowa Sinzan. 1, Fresh lava; 2 burnt clayish
__ rocks; 3, volcanic ejecta; 4, mud; 5, volcanic ashes; 6, somma lava of Usu; 7, clay;
i 8, gravel beds; 9, tuff; 10, Takinoue lava.

Glowing lava could be first observed in the crack opened at its
northern foot on February 11. As the cone grew larger, spots of
red-hot lava could be seen. Especially at night several bright red
spots on the sides of the dome gave a wonderful sight to inhabitants
of Sobetu village.

Thus the solid lava continued to rise about a meter a day, with
marked trepidation during the early stage of development. In May
a branch lava mass appeared at its west side. At the southwest side
of the dome, a reddish glovelike mass of rock about 50 meters high
stood separated from the main body by a fissure at a place where many
solfataras vigorously ejected gases. It was called “Sangoiwa”
(meaning coral rock) from its form and color. The dome did not
grow uniformly as a single mass, but differentially or independently
in divided bodies. The division of its top part may have resulted
from fissure planes opened in the cap rocks by heavy friction after it
was solidified. This new dome is within the arc of the seven craters
’ with the periphery of the dome in contact with the craters.
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Owing to the severe explosions, thick tuffaceous debris, clayey ma-
terial, and other ejecta accumulated on the surface of the upheaved
area covering the greater part of the dome’s surface. Where lava was
exposed the color of its incandescence indicated a temperature of at
least 1,000° C.

Numerous severe earthquakes in the pre-eruption stage took place at
depths ranging from 3 to 7 kilometers under the southern side of the
Usu volcano, but with the development of the eruption, the depth of
origin of the earthquakes came progressively nearer the earth’s sur-
face at the small area where the craterlets opened and the lava dome
formed.

THE NEW MOUNTAIN

This newly formed mountain is now composed of two distinct parts:
a nearly circular platform, called the “roof mountain,” and a conical
rock projection above it, called the “dome.”

The roof mountain is a nearly circular platform about 800 to 1,000
meters in diameter, surrounded, except for its western side, by slopes
of 20° to 40° inclination. Its surface, corresponding to the original
terrain, is undulating and covered by numerous boulders and blocks
of lava. The roof mountain is chiefly composed of the old somma lavas
of Usu, and it is interesting to note that Takinoue lava, which forms
the lowermost basement of Usu Volcano, is exposed in the highest
part of the roof mountain. The eastern flank of the roof mountain is
surrounded by an elevated terrace (or “front mountain”) about 70
meters above the old alluvial plain of the Osaru and Sobetu Rivers.
Toward the middle of July 1944, when the paroxysmal eruption was at
its height, it was noticed that the ground around the base of the new
mountain began to rise abnormally. It developed rapidly and the hori-
zontal displacements in the radial direction were accelerated as the
lava dome grew. In May 1945, a hill in the form of a ring or a half-
ring, the “front mountain,” was formed at the margin of the roof
mountain. Judged from morphological investigations, the “front
mountain” is built up more completely at its eastern part, which in-
cludes the former ricefields of soft material, than at the other part,
which is formed of firm materials such as the Usu lava flows and the
Takinoue lava. Obviously, the hill of ring form was built by pres-
sure acting laterally from the center of disturbance, the intrusion and
protrusion of viscous lava, and resulted in an abnormal upheavai
nearly 20 meters high, but still retaining the original surface of the
ground. At gullies formed in the front mountain, we can observe the
warping, folding, and the thrusts of small size caused in this manner.

The dome of extrusive lava is situated a little west of the center of
the roof mountain and is about 150 meters higher, its summit being
405 meters above sea level. Its eastern side is an abrupt precipice with
ERUPTION OF USU VOLCANO—MINAKAMI ET AL. 271

huge slabs of lava surrounding a central core, like the scales of a lily
corm about the central bulb. The thick layers covering the surface
of the dome have numerous concentric cracks, emphasizing its shell-
like structure. The surface shows many parallel striations caused
by the intense friction experienced during the upheaval of the dome.

The greater part of the dome is covered by thick layers of clayey
materials, which are mostly burnt into a reddish-brown bricklike sub-
tance by the heat emanating from the lava. Tuffaceous beds are also
common. The presence of gravels on many parts of the dome deserves
special mention ; even the very summit is crowned with beds of gravels
and sands 2 meters thick, so that the surface exposures of new lava
are greatly restricted.

Tt is remarkable that the new lava is everywhere broken into irregu-
lar fragments by numerous cracks, suggesting that it did not solidify
in situ but had consolidated during its rise from the depths, and was
fragmented during the upward movement of the mass. On the surface
of the dome are many elliptical or irregular crevices several meters in
diameter, with incandescent interiors. These crevices emit vapors and
gases vigorously and deposit beautiful bluish-green, yellowish-green,
purple, and dark-gray sublimation products on the surrounding
surfaces.

By the end of 1945 the roof mountain and the dome ceased growing
and were completely formed. Then, too, the earthquakes and the de-
formations subsided. The eruption of Syowa Sinzan, which had en-
dured for 22 months, essentially came to an end.

Since the completion of the new mountain, no further remarkable
change has been experienced. A small explosion occurred on May 2,
1948, forming a new craterlet. The smoke that issued from the new
mountain diminished gradually, and in August 1946 we could climb
up on the dome. Sulfataras around the dome became less active, but
several fumaroles with vapor temperature of 95.5° were formed at
the south side of the roof mountain. Temperature of the new lava,
however, seems to be not much lower than at its first appearance.
Ishikawa measured the temperature of the dull red lava exposed at
the west foot of the dome in November 1950 at 780° C.

Small depressions were gradually formed at several places on the
roof mountain. Loose materials on steep slopes of the roof mountain
sometimes fell down to its foot. And after the cessation of volcanic
activity, water began to well out from the side of the front mountain,
near the site of the old springs at Hukaba. Its temperature measured
about 15° C. in November 1950. A pond that formed in a depression
near Matumotoyama in June 1944 has evaporated.

No noticeable earthquake in the area has been felt since October 1945,
. but weak tremors were recorded 29 times in 1951 on a seismograph
placed at Sobetu village by the Sapporo Meteorological Observatory.
272 | § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
PETROLOGIC NOTE

The new lava is a hypersthene dacite with sporadic phenocrysts of
andesine and hypersthene in a fine-grained groundmass. In spite of
a silica content as high as 69.7 percent, phenocrystic quartz is absent,
and its place is represented by the abundant presence of quartz and
cristobalite grains in the groundmass.

It is noteworthy that the new lava closely resembles the lavas of the
central cones O-Usu and Ko-Usu, in mineralogical as well as chemical
composition, though there is a long time interval between the forma-
tion of these domes. These dome lavas are, however, entirely differ-
ent from the more mafic somma lava of Usu Volcano, a basaltic ande-
site with silica content as low as 58 percent. Lavas of intermediate
composition are lacking completely in this volcano.

It is unknown how the felsitic dome lavas were derived from the
original mafic magma. It is evident that there has been no differ-
entiation within this felsitic portion of the magma reservoir through-
out this long period since the formation of Ko-Usu dome. This is
striking when compared with Paricutin Volcano lavas, which show
a noticeable change in chemical and mineralogical composition within
the course of only a few years.

The preceding description shows that the recent eruption of Usu
has many striking features, such as series of severe earthquakes,
marked topographical deformation, violent explosions, and extrusion
of solidified mass of juvenile lava. Such remarkable characteristics,
quite unusual in many other volcanoes, are common in this volcano,
as is clear from the inspection of previous eruptions.

PPLE LLP ELPA GLACIAL OIL OAL IOI AGI IRE IAGOG,

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Division of Publications, Smith-
sonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C.
Snails and Their Relations to the Soil’

By Hartey J. VAN CLEAVE

Department of Zoology, University of Illinois, Urbana

[With 1 plate]
THE CHANGING EARTH

Poruakty, streams and lakes or ponds are very commonly thought
of as relatively permanent features of the earth’s countenance, even
though physiography teaches that they are but temporary aspects in
a series of successional changes between water and dry land. By
erosion, soils are washed into lakes and ponds from the surrounding
land. Ultimately, the shallow water at the margin with its fixed vege-
tation encroaches upon the open waters which, at the same time, are
becoming shallower through the accumulation of silt at the bottom
of the lake. If these processes continue, the lake is gradually trans-
formed into a marsh or swamp land and there results an intermediate
stage between the purely aquatic habitat and dry land. Snails of
many species thrive in the shallow waters at the margin of a lake or
swamp where vegetation is abundant enough to provide them with a
constant food supply. They live their relatively limited life span,
and after death the empty shells accumulate in the ooze at the bottom
of the pond. The lake bottom thus becomes an admixture of soil and
organic debris, washed in from the surrounding land, and the resistant
remains of the organisms that once lived in the lake. Ultimately, in
the processes of nature or by will of man, the lake may revert to dry
land. Then the content of the old lake bottom is exposed for easy
inspection and the shells which have been accumulating for ages are
exposed to view. The interpretation of these deposits of limy shells
involves an understanding of the varied conditions under which snails
live and likewise consideration of the agencies responsible for their
accumulation in the soil, where their influence on agriculture has long
been recognized. Regarding the significance of lime in agriculture,
Truog (1938) has said, “It is not too much to say that it must be
considered the very backbone of profitable crop production, soil con-

1 Reprinted by permission from the Biologist, vol. 34, Nos. 1-2, September—December
951.

273
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

servation, and permanent agriculture in the humid regions of this
country.”

IMPORTANCE OF LIVING SNAILS

Biologically, snails have many important relationships in addition
to their effect upon their physical environment. They have long been
recognized as important elements in food chains. Living chiefly on
vegetation, they in turn become food for fishes and a great variety
of other animals and thus in an endless cycle they keep much of the
organic material of which their bodies are composed passing from one
incarnation to another and at the same time much of the material
from their dead bodies and their wastes are continuously bridging
the gap, back and forth, within the bodies of plants and animals.

In their capacity as necessary hosts for the digenetic trematodes,
which live as parasites in all the classes of vertebrates, snails have
peculiar biological significance.

It is an indisputable fact that food wastes passing through their
digestive tracts have significant effect upon the organic content of
the soil and of the water in which snails live, but there have been no
quantitative studies paralleling the classical work of Charles Darwin
on the effects of earthworms in the production of vegetable mold.
Interesting as these aspects of relations between snails and their en-
vironment may be, they will be omitted from the present discussion and
attention will be restricted to the role played by snails through the
addition of lime to the soil.

RELATIONS TO SURROUNDINGS

While some species of snails have very broad tolerance of conditions
under which they will live, there are many species which are sharply
limited by their physical surroundings or by their necessity for asso-
ciation with particular types of living things. Thus, among the water-
dwelling snails, some of the forms of the old genus Physa which
breathe through a lung sac can prosper in water that is heavily poluted
by sewage (Physa anatina) and at times become abundant even in
sewage-treatment plants (Brown, 1937). Other forms of the same
genus (e. g., Physa gyrina hildrethina) occur only in pools, while
still other closely related forms (Physa gyrina gyrina) are character-
istic inhabitants of more swiftly moving streams. Among the snails
that dwell on the land, there is even more pronounced limitation to the
conditions under which many species will live (Baker, 1939). One
species (Discus patulus) is invariably associated with woodlands in
which beech and maple trees are growing. This species is considered
as an invariable associate of what ecologists term the beech-maple
forest. It is not that Discus feeds upon either beech or maple, but the
SNAILS AND THE SOIL—VAN CLEAVE 275

conditions of soil and of climate favorable to these trees are at the
same time the set of conditions demanded by Discus. There are many
other snails which are usual associates of particular kinds of plants
and animals because the latter provide the natural food for the snails.
One of the commonest woodland snails of central Illinois is Mesodon
thyroidus which will feed upon a wide variety of vegetation but be-
comes particularly thrifty and abundant where woods nettles grow
in profusion (Foster, 1937). Some land snails have feeding habits
wholly different from that just mentioned. For example, Haplotrema
concavum is carnivorous and lives largely upon the flesh of other
snails. Physical surroundings are less important in the life of the
last-mentioned species, just so long as a supply of snails is available
to serve as food.

Many land snails are indicators of the physical conditions under
which they live (Baker, 1921). Their soft bodies are best served
by relatively high atmospheric moisture so that moist ravines sheltered
from the direct rays of the sun are particularly favored habitats and
many species become especially active at night and during rains.
Some of the land snails (as, for example, some species of the genus
Succinea) are so exacting in their demands for moisture that they
live a truly amphibious existence, remaining only a portion of the
time out of water and always close enough to water to be able to
return to it if they become too dry. Even when snails live in exposed
situations, such as in open fields and along railroad embankments,
or under desert conditions, they tend to conserve their moisture by
crawling under objects lying on the soil, or even live in the roots of
the vegetation. Further, many land snails are able to cut down
evaporation from their bodies, when inactive, by secreting a tough
membrane, the epiphragm, effectually sealing over the aperture of the
shell.

Whether in the water or on dry land, the shells of dead snails
often resist destruction for a long period of time and under proper
conditions they accumulate in extensive deposits (pl. 1). By the
study of these deposits, which often represent forms of bygone
geological age, the student familiar with the habits of living snails
is often able to analyze the conditions under which each species
probably existed. In fact, at times it has been possible for the special
student (Baker, 1937) to postulate the general temperature range and
something of the ecological conditions of the environment under
which the animals which produced the dead shells lived, even though
that might have been at some remote time, several thousand years
in the past. With a considerable degree of confidence, Frank C. Baker
(1937) postulated the climatic conditions and the ecological associa-
.tions for some of the molluscan faunas of the ice age. In his studies
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of shells of the Pleistocene age, he found among Illinois deposits some
species which are identical with forms dwelling in the same area
today but he also found some shells representing species the only living
varieties of which are today found at latitudes considerably farther
north. A knowledge of the habits and living conditions of present-
day forms has been helpful in interpretation of the conditions under
which similar forms of past ages probably existed.

When the Chicago Drainage Canal was constructed, Baker (1930a)
was able to study the evidence of the molluscan life in old glacial
Lake Chicago, the forerunner of Lake Michigan, and could demon-
strate fluctuations in lake level, changes from swampy to lake condi-
tions, and from deep to shallow water.

The glacial advances and retreats of the Pleistocene Epoch pro-
foundly affected all life, including the terrestrial as well as the fresh-
water Mollusca (Baker, 1930b). Following an advance of the ice
sheet, all life was killed or was driven southward, causing a com-
mingling of arctic, subarctic, and temperate life south of the border
of the continental ice sheet. During the warmer interglacial inter-
vals, this life again returned to the territory left bare by the retreat-
ing ice just as rapidly as the vegetation essential to its existence became
established. In the series of repeated invasions by the glaciers, there
were successive decimations and repopulations in the same area. The
reoccupied territory, left bare by the retreating ice, was usually
entirely different from that previously existing. Such radical
changes had profound influence upon the kind of plants and animals
that could become successfully established in the area. Changed
climatic factors also contributed to the altered conditions for life.
Under the combined action of these factors, some species became ex-
terminated while others were stimulated to undergo variations which
led to the production of new species. For the glaciated part of the
United States, it is estimated that 74 percent of the mammals of pre-
glacial times are extinct. It should be remembered that 1 to 5 million
years are estimated as the period in which this was accomplished. Of
the fresh-water, gill-bearing snails, 18.8 percent are extinct; of the
fresh-water pulmonates, 8.3 percent, and of land snails, 11.1 percent.
By way of summary for the entire area, about 7.8 percent of all
animal species became extinct.

In acid waters, snails and mussels are almost wholly lacking and the
small numbers of unthrifty individuals which are encountered in
either natural or artifically produced acid waters have either extremely
thin shells or, if the acidity is due to recent pollution, the limy mate-
rial is eaten away wherever the organic covering has been broken by
natural abrasion or by accident.
SNAILS AND THE SOIL-——-VAN CLEAVE Pts
LIME SUPPLY

Mollusks are so intimately dependent upon a lime supply for the
fabrication of their limy shells that among fresh-water forms some of
the poorest molluscan faunas are encountered in the areas poor in
limestone but rich in granite. This correlation is so close that col-
lectors of land shells have long recognized limestone cliffs and out-
crops as particularly favorable collecting sites for living land snails
and streams flowing through limestone or through soils rich in lime
as particularly productive of snails and mussels.

Snails, living and dying in the same place, little influence the lime
supply, for the limy material which they use is sooner or later returned
to the soil again, and the lime cycle is repeated over and over within
and without the shells of the living snails. When the shells disinte-
grate, the lime which had been temporarily entrapped is again re-
turned to the general store. No quantitative studies have been made
to determine if there is any dissipation of the available lime supply
in this cyclic utilization of lime by the living organisms.

The late T. D. Foster (1937) recorded for a flood-plain forest along
the Sangamon River in Illinois the presence of 2,630 individuals of one
species of land snail (Afesodon thyroidus) per acre. Though there
are about a score of species of snails present in this same area, the one
species is the most abundant and relatively the most important so
far as production and utilization of lime is concerned. On the basis
of weights which Foster calculated, about 169 pounds of Mesodon
thyroidus are present on each acre of the woodland studied. Of this
weight, about 140 pounds are of snail flesh and about 29 pounds are
of dry shell. This does not represent the entire annual accumulation
but rather the amount present at one time in the shells of living snails
as determined by sampling methods. Because of the cyclic fluctua-
tions in abundance of all types of organisms, figures of this sort have
but relative value, for at another time either greater or less abundance
might be demonstrated (Foster and Van Cleave, 1937). However,
the presence of the snails is an indicator of available lime supply and
in turn their shells after death return lime to the soil as potential
material for use by other organisms.

To a much smaller degree, the shells of zonitoids, pupids, and other
minute snails living in grasslands utilize the available lime and return
it to the soil, although quantitative studies on the losses in the transfer
and by action of ground water have never been determined.

SHELLS NOT STATIONARY

In referring to the intimate relationship between the molluscan
fauna and their physical and biotic environment, attention should be
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

directed to the the fact that deposits of shells are found in environ-
ments different from those in which they originated. There are many
factors responsible for this fact, but the chief of them may be grouped
under two headings: (1) translocation of the dead shells and (2)
physiographical changes of the earth’s surface.

TRANSLOCATION

Water, wind, ice, and human agency are the chief factors in trans-
location and accumulation of dead shells in areas other than those in
which they originated on the bodies of living snails. Both recent and
remote geological times have contributed to the stock of shells now
found in the soil and, through the agencies for translocation, shells
from past ages may become elements in the construction of soils at the
present time where they may be mixed indiscriminately with shells
recently produced.

Water.—Many limestone deposits include fossil shells of snails and
clams of long-past geological ages along with the remains of multi-
tudes of other organisms having limy skeletons, such as the corals,
certain types of Protozoa, and echinoderms. These components of
the sedimentary limestones provide deposits of lime utilized by modern
mollusks in the production of their shells. These same limestone de-
posits are utilized commercially in the production of limestone for
agricultural purposes. Here the shells of snails, clams, protozoans,
and corals of geologically ancient oceans provide a renewed source of
lime on lands where weathering, leaching, and cropping have depleted
the natural supplies. Much of the lime now available in fresh water
thus comes from the geologically old lime deposits, largely of marine
origin. Ground water, flowing over and through the limestone, dis-
solves the lime and makes it available for the aquatic animals in fresh
water.

Another type of translocation by water is that in which running
water carries dead shells and lays them down in a new location either
at the bottom of a lake or pond or along the margins of streams. If
the water carries much abrasive material the shells may be ground
fine and mixed with the mud and sediment, though often they are un-
injured. When the course of the stream is changed, through natural
or human agency, or when the bed of a lake or swamp is drained, the
accumulated shells are exposed as marl deposits and attract more at-
tention than they could while covered with water.

Surface waters on rolling lands often tend to wash dead land shells
into gullies or against obstacles such as the stems and roots of grasses
where definite windrows accumulate awaiting decomposition or
further translocation by other agencies. In fact, an examination of
gullies and hillsides often reveals to the collector dead shells which
PLATE 1

Van Cleave

1952-—

Smithsonian Report,

*[L0S 94} O} PIUINjol oq [[IM s]jeys sy fO 9UII] VY} Io} e] IO I9U00g

YAAIYM SIONITI] AHL DNO1WY STIVNS GV3qd AO NOILVINWNDDYy

SNAILS AND THE SOIL—VAN CLEAVE 279

have been washed down from higher grounds where colonies of living
snails may be located.

Wind.—Winds are likewise effective agents in transporting dead
shells. The evidences in support of this statement come largely from
past geological times. Fine sands and shells from some prehistoric
dustbowl were carried great distances by the winds and were then
laid down in the characteristic deposits called loess. These forma-
tions, rich in fossil snail shells, are highly desirable agricultural lands.

Ice.—The fauna of the loess probably lived under conditions prac-
tically the same as those prevailing today. Many of the larger species
where inhabitants of forested areas along river bluffs. Some of the
smaller species doubtless lived in open woods or thickets, or even on
the open prairies as they do today. In southern Illinois, the loess
deposits are entirely different from those in the northern part of the
State with respect to the molluscan fauna. In the southern loesses,
there are large land shells abundantly represented although these are
almost wholly lacking from the loess of northern Illinois and their
place is taken by minute species. A part of this variation is probably
due to climatic differences, similar to and even exaggerated above
those existing today. Loess deposits in northern Illinois probably
began soon after the retreat of the ice and under such conditions that
the climate would have been considerably colder than at present.
Geologists seem convinced that isotherms were displaced southward
during considerable part of the period while loess was being deposited.
Under these conditions it would be highly probable that temperature
conditions in central and southern Illinois at that time were more
nearly what we find now in central or southern Michigan and
Wisconsin.

Human agency.—Shell heaps of enormous size have often been
formed by human agency. Pre-Columbian Indians, especially along
the coast, used shellfish for food and some tribes produced very ex-
tensive beds of shells at their camp sites. Even in the Central States,
primitive Indians left extensive accumulations of snail shells in some
places (Baker, 1936), probably having utilized the snails as food. In
like manner, shells and shell artifacts are scattered through the
mounds produced by the race of mound builders, though not in the
quantities characteristic of the kitchen middens.

On top of natural deposits of shells, there are frequently found
shells the presence of which would entail extreme changes in tempera-
ture and in the extent of the oceans if they were natural deposits. In
dredge cuts in northern Illinois, there have been found fairly good
samples of shells that have never been known to live anywhere except
in Florida and many of these are strictly marine species. The only
logical explanation of this condition is that Indians left them at camp

236639—53——19
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

sites. It is generally known that well-established trade routes had
been originated by the early American Indians and it is known that
they traded in and cherished some of the seashells, even though they
had to be transported long distances to the interior of the country.

Modern man has also had his influence upon direct distribution of
shells. Through the oyster and other shellfish industries, including
pearl-button factories, huge spoil heaps of shells are accumulated in-
cident to commercial operation. In many instances, these wastes are
converted into commercial products for feeding poultry and as crushed
shell for lawns and gardens.

PHYSIOGRAPHICAL CHANGES

Elevations of the shoreline or depression of the water level of the
ocean, and even of lakes and rivers, often leave natural deposits of
dead shells exposed to the action of the weather and available for
building soil. Also, in the instances of the earth’s crustal movements,
regions that were formed as rock deposits in the bottom of the ocean
become elevated and folded as hills and mountains, and deposits of
rocks containing snails and other lime-bearing shells become exposed
through weathering and folding of the strata.

At times, outcrops of shells occur in isolated spots in fields. Physio-
graphical changes are likewise responsible for this phenomenon.
When these deposits occur in depressions, they are readily explainable
as due to the irregular shape of the lake or swamp on whose bottom
they were deposited or were brought in by various of the agencies men-
tioned above. However, in some instances the isolated patches tend
to be on slightly elevated ground, not in gullies. In such cases, only
speculation can be brought in as an attempt at explanation. The
writer believes that the most logical explanation is one that involves
considerable periods of time. At some past age, an old lake bed filled
up and in its bottom were deposited layers of shells overlain with other
deposits of sand or of muck. By changes in the drainage, streams
could cut through this level plain, sinking their channels through the
overlying deposits and finally through the shell accumulations. The
nature of the shell deposits left exposed by these newly established
streams would depend upon how long the streams had been flowing.
If the young streams had cut relatively straight courses, then the shells
would be exposed along the banks of the streams or long gullies when
the stream finally disappeared. Under other conditions, if the streams
were to continue for a long time, they would meander through the old
exposed lake bed cutting down and carrying away almost all of the
original shell deposit, leaving it only on knollsides and on slight eleva-
tions where the stream was unable to erode away the knoll, or other
SNAILS AND THE SOIL—VAN CLEAVE 281

portion of the soil, because of difference in its consistency. In such
an old lake bed, the action of a meandering stream cutting its ever
widening and wandering channel might readily leave isolated patches
of shelly material on slightly elevated places where at an earlier date
the shell material had been a continuous sheet in the deepest part of a
former pond or lake.

SUMMARY

By the way of summary, it may be stated that all the accumulations
of shells, whether from present day or ancient origin, represent stored
supplies of lime, available for modifying the soil and making it suit-
able for plant growth. At times, the shell deposits of cultivated land
occur in combination with conditions unfavorable to crop growth. In
these instances the shells are only indicators of other conditions which,
in turn, are responsible for adverse conditions because when adequate
drainage or manuring is carried out the faults are corrected. Often
the shells of snails are found on agricultural lands, as is the case of
marl and loess deposits, and apparently they add to the productiveness
of theland. The observable snail shells in the soil do not comprise the
entire effect of snails upon the soil. In many instances the shells are
finely broken and unrecognizable and, in the loess, ground water is
known to dissolve out lime and to translocate it to lower soil levels or
to the ground water where it becomes a part of the lime supply of
natural waters. Furthermore, the snail shells of long-past ages are
united with other limy shells of animals in the formation of the lime-
stone deposits which are then secondarily used for agricultural pur-
poses. In this discussion no attempt has been made to evaluate the
place of living snails in the production of humus and in the addition
of organic matter to the soil.

REFERENCES CITED

Baker, FRANK C.

1921. The importance of ecology in the interpretation of fossil faunas.
Ecology, vol. 2, pp. 277-280.

1930a. The molluscan fanua of the southern part of Lake Michigan and its
relationship to the old glacial Lake Chicago. Trans, Illinois Acad,
Sci., vol. 22, pp. 186-194.

1930b. Influence of the glacial period in changing the character of the mol-
luscan fauna of North America. Ecology, vol. 11, pp. 469-480.

1936. Remains of animal life from the Kingston kitchen midden site near
Peoria, Ill. Trans. Illinois Acad. Sci., vol. 29, pp. 243-246.

1937. Pleistocene land and fresh-water Mollusca as indicators of time and
ecological conditions. In symposium on “Early Man,” pp. 67-74.
Lippincott,

1939. Fieldbook of Illinois land snails. Illinois State Nat. Hist. Surv.,
Manual 2, pp. 1-166.
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Brown, THELMA F.

1937. The biology of Physa anatina Lea, a snail living in a sewage treat-
ment plant. Amer. Midl. Nat., vol. 18, pp. 251-259.
Foster, T. D.
1937. Productivity of a land snail, Polygyra thyroides (Say). Ecology,
vol. 18, pp. 545-546.
Foster, T. D., and VAN CLEAVE, H. J.
1937. The seasonal life history of a land snail, Polygyra thyroides (Say).
Nautilus, vol. 51, pp. 50-54.
Truoe, EH.

1938. Soil acidity and liming. U. 8S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook for 1988, pp.
563-580.
The Ecology, Evolution, and Distribution
of the Vertebrates

By Austin H. Clark

Associate in Zoology, U. S. National Museum

Tue geological history and the accompanying evolution of the ver-
tebrates are the products of the interaction of a large number of vari-
ous factors the final results of which are seen in the diversity,
distribution, and interrelationships of the several classes that we see
at the present time. These factors are both geological, in the broad
sense, and biological. The geological factors may be briefly sum-
marized as follows:

Ever since the first appearance of the vertebrates, conditions on the
land areas have undergone constant and continual change. Warm
lands have become cool or even cold, while cold lands have become
warm, especially in the Northern Hemisphere, as, for instance, in
areas affected by the advance and retreat of glaciers. Well-watered
lands have become arid and arid lands fertile. Seasonal and diurnal
variations in temperature and humidity have increased or decreased.
Mountains have arisen, greatly affecting conditions in their immedi-
ate vicinity, especially on their leeward sides, and other mountains
have been eroded down. Land areas have been partially submerged,
resulting in separate land masses or islands of various sizes, and iso-
lated lands have been joined. Isolation by the dismemberment of an
extensive land area, or the appearance of other barriers, provides an
opportunity for such terrestrial animals as may still be able to find
adequate support to form new centers of evolution and to develop new
subtypes, while the joining of previously separated land masses, as,
for instance, North and South America, or North America and Asia
during the Pleistocene, permits the exchange of faunas, with result-
ing competition.

These changes are continuous. The well-known floral and faunal
changes in North America as a result of the advance and retreat of
the great glaciers are a familiar example. Even within historic
times we have records of far-reaching changes, especially in North
- Africa, the Near East, and India, and comparable changes are now

283
284. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

proceeding rapidly in Central and South America and parts of Africa
as a result of human activities.

Provided that they still remain extensive enough to support ver-
tebrate life, land waters—lakes and rivers—are far less variable in the
conditions necessary for that life than the dry land, especially in
tropical and temperate regions. The temperature range is less, sea-
sonal variation is much smaller, and diurnal variation negligible.
Humidity is constant, although there may be considerable diversity
in the amount and character of the dissolved salts and gases.

Of the biological factors influencing the development and evolu-
tion of the vertebrates the most important is food. The food of all
terrestrial vertebrates, including those of the land waters, is both ani-
mal and vegetable. The vegetable food consists of plants, predomi-
nantly the leaves, seeds, fruits, and twigs of green plants, though all
other parts of green plants and all other plants are eaten, and in ad-
dition plant detritus with its accompanying saprophytes, algae or
fungi.

Of terrestrial animals both on land and in shallow fresh water by
far the most abundant both in species and in numbers are the insects,
which as a group are mainly feeders on plants or on detritus, though
many are predaceous or parasitic. The insects are supplemented by
the chiefly carnivorous spiders and their allies and, especially in wa-
ter, by the mollusks, which are largely plant or detritus feeders. The
other invertebrate groups play a relatively unimportant part on land.

Plants, insects, spiders, and mollusks occur wherever there is an
adequate supply of water, permanent, temporary, or even irregular,
and under all conditions of temperature and humidity except perma-
nent frost. All are known since the earliest evidences of a terrestrial
fauna. Although the plants and insects have varied greatly from
time to time, and at present vary greatly from place to place, all
plants and all insects in the present discussion may be considered as
single units from the point of view of their availability as food for
vertebrates.

In the sea the extreme importance of diatoms and some allied
plants and of the planktonic animals that feed upon them, especially
such crustaceans as copepods and mysids and such mollusks as ptero-
pods, has long been recognized, as has the importance of detritus,
especially in the abysses. But it has not been generally recognized
that the vertebrate food chain on land is similarly based upon green
plants and arthropods supplemented by mollusks and to a lesser de-
gree by other invertebrates, with detritus playing an important,
though here a relatively minor, part.

The essential parallelism between the food chain in the sea and the
food chain on land is obscured by the fact that by far the greatest
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 285

part of the vegetation of the sea is microscopic, too small for any ver-
tebrates to consume directly. The coastal algae and marine flowering
plants such as eelgrass are eaten by manatees, dugongs, some sea
turtles such as the green turtle, and a large lizard, but these are quite
insignificant when considered in relation to the marine vertebrates
as a whole.

On land the green plants are large—large enough to be consumed
directly by vertebrates of any size without the intervention of inter-
mediaries. The earliest vertebrates appear to have been almost
wholly, perhaps entirely, carnivorous, parallel] with the present verte-
brates of the sea, and the fresh-water fishes have remained almost
wholly carnivorous. In the strictly terrestrial classes, the reptiles,
birds, and mammals, plant-feeding types soon appeared. These re-
mained relatively few in the reptiles, although some of the vegetarians
attained gigantic size, but soon became numerous in the warm-blooded
birds and especially the mammals so that today the dominant, and also
the largest, terrestrial mammals are plant feeders, and very many of
the birds, including all the largest, are vegetarians, at least as adults,
though many are throughout their lives.

As important as the amount and type of available food are the
physical conditions that must be met in order to make use of it. For
animals as a whole the maintenance of an adequate supply of water
within the body is the chief physical requirement. For aquatic ani-
mals there is no difficulty here, though certain physiological adjust-
ments must be made for the varying amounts of salts in solution.
Amphibious animals living either in water or in a humid atmosphere
are almost as independent of the necessity for water control as the
aquatic. Strictly terrestrial animals, especially those living in dry
regions, must develop special mechanisms for the conservation of
water within their bodies, replenishing the water usually by inter-
mittent drinking.

The next most important factor affecting vertebrate life is illumi-
nation, necessary for certain physiological processes, heat, and vision.
In the completely dark depths of the sea the fishes either possess ]umi-
nous organs or feed on luminous creatures. It is possible that the
widespread luminosity among all types of marine animals may be
related to the fulfillment of certain light requirements in the absence
of light from the sun.

The oxygen requirements of vertebrates appear to be of minor
significance in their effect on evolution. Oxygen occurs abundantly
in water as well as in the air and is taken up by means of gills or in-
ternal lungs, or through the skin.

All terrestrial vertebrates must be capable of active locomotion in a

-medium much lighter than their bodies. This is usually effected by
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

two pairs of strong articulated limbs terminated by movable digits,
though in some cases, as in snakes, in other ways.

It is generally agreed that animal life originated in water, whether
in marshes, estuaries, or the sea is unimportant. But what is impor-
tant is that the basic evolutionary pattern was aquatic and that this
pattern has been carried over with modifications onto the land, the
animals most perfectly adjusted to strictly terrestrial conditions being
vertebrates, arthropods, and mollusks (gastropods) , representatives of
the three dominant and most diversified groups of aquatic animals.

Against this background vertebrate life must develop, hold its own,
or perish. Most important for the continued existence of animal types
through geological and other changes is their ability to produce new
forms capable of meeting new conditions—that is, their capacity for
evolution. The evolutionary history of any animal type is dependent
upon three coordinate factors: First, the inherent ability to produce
variants or mutants, either micromutants differing but little from the
parent stock, or macromutants differing more or less widely from the
parent stock; second, the existence of an adequate physiological balance
in the mutants that are produced; and third, the ability of such mu-
tants as may appear to find a habitat where the food supply is
adequate, the physical and chemical surroundings are suitable, and
there is no insurmountable competition.

In the course of constant geological and other changes new habitats
appear from time to time, and established habitats become unsuited
for the existing fauna. The ecological vacua thus created may be
filled by modifications of the local fauna, or by immigrants from out-
side that possess or develop adaptations suited to the new conditions.
Thus the large grazing and browsing mammals of the South American
Pliocene and Pleistocene have given way to a great number of highly
diversified rodents, and the ecological niche occupied by the great
marine reptiles of the past has been preempted by the present mam-
malian cetaceans.

Each vertebrate class has the potentiality of developing new forms
capable of occupying a considerable range of habitats. Thus each
class includes a considerable number of peripheral or fringe forms
arranged irregularly about a generalized central type. The five
vertebrate classes, fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals,
including their peripheral types, may be briefly characterized as
follows:

CHARACTERISTICS OF VERTEBRATE CLASSES
FISHES

The fishes were the first vertebrates to appear as fossils, in the
Silurian. Fishes are all aquatic, though a number, both fresh-water
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 287

and marine, can live for a considerable time out of water, and some
fresh-water fishes, as the common eel, occasionally or regularly pass
overland from one body of water to another at night. In contrast
to amphibians, fishes are both fresh-water and marine, many groups
being represented both in the sea and in lakes, ponds, and streams.
Many fishes, as salmon, shad, and sturgeon, live in the sea but run
up streams to spawn. These also have relatives living permanently
in fresh water. A few fishes, as the common eel, some gobies, and
some galaxiids, live in fresh water but spawn in the sea. Many
marine fishes freely enter fresh water, as do some porpoises, the white
whale, and some seals, and some will breed there if cut off from the
sea, as for instance the shark and the sawfish in Lake Nicaragua.
Some fresh-water fishes freely enter brackish or even salt water
regularly or occasionally, like the northern trout and the pike. Some
fishes, like the sticklebacks, are especially characteristic of brackish
water.

Fishes are predominantly carnivorous, the smaller fresh-water
species feeding mostly on aquatic insects with such other invertebrates
as may be available, the larger on other fishes with an occasional
amphibian or land vertebrate. In the larger bodies of fresh water
a very few feed on plankton, especially when young. A few fishes
feed largely on detritus, some are omnivorous, and a very few are
vegetarian. A small number, as Myxine and some very small cat-
fishes, are parasitic, and in the ceratioid fishes the diminutive and
defective males are attached to the females as external parasites.
These are the only parasites among the vertebrates.

Fishes may be scaled, completely or partly, or naked. Some have
large, usually scattered, dermal scutes.

The limbs are modified into paired fins of which the posterior
pair may be situated anywhere between the anus and throat, modified
as a sucker, or absent; rarely both pairs are absent as in the snakes
and some lizards.

Breathing is almost entirely by covered gills, but three fresh-
water types, in South America, Africa, and Australia, have func-
tional lungs and a number develop internal structures that function
as lungs in addition to gills. A number of fishes will drown if de-
prived of access to air. An air bladder is commonly present.

The body temperature is not controlled but approaches that of
the surroundings. Some fishes become torpid and feed but little
during the winter. Others bury themselves in the mud at the bottom
of ponds. One in Alaska and Siberia (Daliia) remains frozen in
solid ice through the cold season. A number of tropical fishes
estivate in the mud in the bottom of dried-up bodies of water, usually
_ Ina mud cocoon like some amphibians. Fresh-water fishes are much
less ensitive to temperature changes than marine fishes.
288 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Like amphibians, fishes are not dependent on bright illumination
and many live in the oceanic abysses far below the maximum depth
of penetration of sunlight. A considerable number live in the dark
depths of deep lakes, such as Lakes Baikal and Tanganyika, and in
the dimly lighted deeps of other lakes. As in the case of amphibians,
some fishes are found only in caves and in deep underground waters.
Most fresh-water fishes avoid bright light, and many are active
mainly at night. Many marine fishes are luminous, usually develop-
ing special light organs, but this is not true of any fresh-water fishes,
although a tree frog and a lizard are luminous.

A number of fishes in several widely different groups are provided
with electric organs.

Most fishes produce eggs that are fertilized outside the body, but
a number are viviparous with internal fertilization. The eggs,
always soft and usually with a gelatinous covering or in a gelatinous
matrix, sometimes in a horny capsule, are laid in strings or masses,
or scattered individually. Many fresh-water fishes prepare more or
less elaborate nests which are usually tended by the males, more rarely
by the females or by both sexes. In a number of species in widely
different groups the males carry the eggs about in their mouths until
they hatch, as do some amphibians. In one South American catfish
the eggs are carried about embedded in the skin of the under side
of the female, parallel to the case of the Surinam toad (Pipa). In
a few fishes the young are tended, but not fed, for some time by the
male, more rarely by the female. None of the fresh-water fishes
pass through a widely different larval stage such as is characteristic
of many marine fishes. The common eel (Anguilla) has such a
stage, but it is passed in the sea and the form of the adult is acquired
by the little eels before they enter fresh water.

AMPHIBIANS

The amphibians were the second group of vertebrates to appear as
fossils, in the Carboniferous. At the present time they are represented
by three groups, the caecilians, the salamanders, and the frogs and
toads. Amphibians live in swamps, marshes, bogs, ditches, ponds,
the quiet backwaters of lakes and rivers, and in humid regions usually
near permanent or temporary water. Some, including the largest,
are wholly aquatic. Others are largely or entirely terrestrial, living
on moist land, in damp woods, or under stones or logs in damp areas,
being active chiefly at night or during rains when the humidity is
highest. Many toads live in relatively dry regions, but these are
active mainly at night when the temperature drops and the humidity
rises. Some amphibians are chiefly subterranean, appearing at the
surface only under certain conditions, often at long intervals, and
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 289

others are wholly subterranean, A few salamanders are confined to
caves or to underground waters. Nearly all terrestrial amphibians
are strictly aquatic in their early stages.

In marked contrast to the other vertebrates, the amphibians are
strictly confined to fresh water, only a single Indian frog frequent-
ing somewhat brackish water.

As adults most amphibians feed on insects, some adding other in-
vertebrates, but the large frogs and toads often eat small mammals
or birds, some of them other frogs. Some amphibians feed largely
or wholly on vegetable detritus, and nearly all feed on algae and
detritus in the larval stages, reversing the cycle of such birds as spar-
rows which are insectivorous when young, seed eaters as adults.

All amphibians are naked, with a moist skin, least moist in some of
the toads. They breathe by means of external or covered gills or by
internal lungs, many by gills in the early stages and by lungs later,
and also through the skin. Some may, as adults, retain the larval form,
breathing by gills, or acquire an alternative form, breathing by lungs.

Most amphibians have four functional limbs terminated by sep-
arate digits, which may be subequal, or the hinder pair much enlarged
and used for jumping or swimming, or absent. In some the limbs
may be greatly reduced, and in one group they are wholly absent.

The body temperature is uncontrolled, and is approximately that
of the surroundings. In temperate regions the frogs, toads, and
salamanders hibernate, usually in water. In very dry regions some
frogs and toads estivate deep in the soil, encasing themselves in a
hard cocoon of earth mixed with mucus.

Amphibians are not dependent on bright illumination, and most of
them are nocturnal, or at least avoid the sunlight. A few (as Hyla
micans) secrete luminous mucus.

Except for touch, the senses are poorly developed, although some
frogs and toads have good eyesight, and the fact that many are highly
vocal indicates good hearing.

Most amphibians lay eggs which are fertilized either outside the
body, in some cases long after deposition, or internally. The eggs
are soft with a gelatinous covering or in a gelatinous matrix and
are deposited individually or in masses or strings, usually in water
or in situations where the young will fall or be washed into water,
rarely in moist situations on land. A few species make more or less
elaborate nests. In other species the eggs are carried about on the
back of the female or in the mouth or wrapped about the body of the
male until they hatch. The young are not tended after hatching. A
few salamanders and two African frogs are viviparous.

Except for the viviparous species all amphibians pass through a
superficially fishlike limbless larval stage, with vertical fins but no
' fin rays, in water. In some wholly terrestrial frogs the eggs are laid
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

on land and the larval stage is greatly abbreviated, the eggs giving
forth perfect, though very small, frogs.

REPTILES

The reptiles were the third class of vertebrates to appear as
fossils, in the late Carboniferous. At the present time they are
represented by only four groups, rhynchocephalians (Hatteria or
Sphenodon, confined to New Zealand), crocodilians, turtles, and snakes
and lizards. Most reptiles are strictly terrestrial with their activities
confined wholly to dry land, especially in hot or more or less arid
regions, but the crocodilians, many turtles, and some snakes are am-
phibious, feeding largely or wholly in water though laying their eggs
on land. The sea snakes are wholly aquatic. A few lizards and
some snakes frequent the banks of streams or other bodies of water
and enter the water freely though they do not feed in it. In warm
regions a few blind and legless lizards are subterranean. No
reptiles live in the dark recesses of extensive caves.

The great majority of reptiles are carnivorous, the smaller ones
feeding mainly on insects, the larger ones on vertebrates, especially
mammals and fish. Some of the snakes have highly specialized
feeding habits, as the egg-, slug-, or snake-eating snakes, and the
venomous snakes. The only other vertebrates with a venomous bite
comparable to that of the venomous snakes are certain shrews among
the mammals. The green turtle, the land tortoises, the large iguanas
in tropical America, Madagascar, and Fiji, and a few other lizards
are vegetarians; but the green turtle, up to a length of about 10 inches,
is carnivorous. One iguana in the Galapagos Islands feeds on sub-
merged seaweeds. Some turtles are more or less omnivorous.

All reptiles are completely covered with scales or plates. The skin
is dry.

Most reptiles have two pairs of functional limbs adapted to walking,
running, swimming, or climbing, but in some the anterior or poste-
rior pairs, or both pairs, may be absent. The limbs when present
usually end in a group of functional digits which in climbing lizards
may be long. In some turtles, particularly the sea turtles, the limbs
may be modified as paddles, the forelimbs being much larger than
the hind limbs and the chief organs of locomotion, as in the penguins
among the birds. Some lizards and snakes, like flying squirrels,
Galeopithecus, and a few other mammals, are modified for gliding
through the air, but without modification of the limbs.

The body temperature of reptiles is uncontrolled, approximating
that of the surroundings. Some snakes, lizards, and turtles and the
American and Chinese alligators hibernate during the winter, most
of the turtles and the alligators in water.
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 291

Reptiles are highly dependent on abundant light, all of them for
heat, and those with heavy skeletons, like most turtles, or with
heavy dermal scutes, like the crocodiles, for skeleton formation.
Most reptiles are strictly diurnal and are especially active in bright
sunlight, but the geckos are mainly nocturnal. The poisonous snakes
hunt their food mostly at night, but many, if not most, of them, like
our rattlesnakes and copperheads, sun themselves by day. In one
lizard from Trinidad the males have a row of luminous organs along
each side, recalling certain luminous fishes.

The senses as a rule are not highly developed, but in lizards and
turtles sight is usually good, and in snakes and some lizards there
is an acute sense of smell.

Most reptiles lay eggs with either a tough and flexible or a hard and
rigid shell. ‘These may be scattered individually, deposited in batches
in a hole and covered up, or, as in the case of the crocodilians, placed
in a compost heap to be hatched by the heat of decomposition as is
done by some megapodes among the birds. The eggs are usually
abandoned, but are sometimes tended. The female python coils about
her eggs and incubates them, her body temperature rising during the
period in incubation. But few reptiles tend their eggs and these
generally lose interest in the young when they appear. Some snakes
and a few lizards are viviparous. Sea snakes give birth to their young
in the water. Fertilization in the reptiles is always internal.

All reptiles breathe by means of internal lungs. Some sea turtles
have supplementary anal breathing.

BIRDS

The first known birds, exhibiting many reptilian features, are from
the Jurassic. AI] birds nest on land, and most birds are terrestrial,
the most widely distributed of all terrestrial vertebrates, found on
many islets and even on some good-sized islands, as some of the Aleu-
tians, where no other vertebrates occur. Many birds are amphibious,
obtaining all their food in fresh or salt water, or in both, as the mer-
gansers, loons, grebes, many kingfishers, and others, particularly the
sea birds. A few birds are oceanic, visiting land only to breed, as do
the sea turtles and the fur seals.

The earliest known birds, which were relatively large and pos-
sessed teeth, a long jointed tail, and other reptilian features, were
presumably carnivorous. At present the dominant and by far the
largest group of birds is that of the perching birds or Passeres which
includes at least half of all the known species. As in the case of the
modern rodents, the dominant mammals, they are all small, or at least
none are very large. ‘They are primarily insectivorous, but many are

-more or less omnivorous and others are plant feeders, at least as
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

adults. Included in the Passeres are the finches and sparrows and
their relatives, forming the largest and most highly specialized group.
The sparrows and finches, like the other perching birds, feed their
young on insects but as adults are vegetarians, mainly seed eaters.
This is the reverse of the conditions seen in most amphibians which
are alga and detritus feeders when young, insectivorous as adults.
Other perching birds as adults are vegetarian, omnivorous, or insecti-
vorous. As seeds are to be found everywhere at all seasons the spar-
rows and their relatives are the most generally and widely distributed
of all terrestrial birds. They are able to exist under the most severe
conditions if sufficient food and water in usable form is available, and
therefore are not so strongly migratory as most other birds.

All sea birds are carnivorous, feeding on crustaceans, fish, and
squid. The gulls are mainly scavengers; some feed more or less ex-
tensively on large insects, especially grasshoppers and cicadas.
Shore birds feed on crustaceans, insects, and small fish, some at cer-
tain seasons eating berries. Most of the smaller land birds feed
wholly or mainly on insects. All the very large birds, the ostriches,
rheas, emus, and cassowaries, are vegetarian, as are the parrots, pi-
geons, swans, geese, and many ducks, as well as a number of species
in other groups. Gallinaceous birds are chiefly vegetarian, though
most of them eat insects, especially when young. Vultures eat carrion,
and some birds, like the ravens and crows, are omnivorous. Preda-
tory birds feed chiefly on mammals, fish, reptiles, and other birds.
Many birds, as woodpeckers and hummingbirds, have highly special-
ized feeding habits, and others, like the hoatzin, will eat only a certain
kind of food. Very few birds store food, and these only casually.
Birds are much more likely to gather shiny, brightly colored, or other-
wise attractive objects, a habit shared with certain rodents.

All birds are completely, or almost completely, feathered, with the
legs scaled. The beak suggests that of the turtles. Some, as the vul-
tures and a number of gallinaceous and struthious birds, have the
head and neck naked. The skin is dry.

All birds have two pairs of limbs of which the posterior pair is al-
ways well developed, at least in the young, adapted for perching,
clinging, climbing, running, swimming, or grasping prey, with usually
four, sometimes only three or two, clawed digits, three or all four of
which may be connected by a web. The anterior pair is usually modi-
fied to form wings which in most birds serve for aerial transport,
though in individual species in many different groups they are reduced
in size and useless for flight, and in such birds as ostriches, rheas, emus,
cassowaries, and kiwis, which have greatly enlarged and powerful
legs like kangaroos, leaping rodents, and frogs, they are very greatly
reduced, especially in the three last. In the penguins the anterior
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 293

pair is modified to form paddles parallel to those of the seals, cetaceans,
manatees, and sea turtles. In agreement with the sea turtles but in
contrast to all other aquatic birds the forelimbs of the penguins pro-
vide the chief motive power in swimming.

In contrast to the uniform flapping flight of bats the flight of birds is
highly diversified. The large sea birds are gliders, which seems to have
been true of most of the flying reptiles of the past. Most vultures, most
eagles, many hawks, and some other large birds spend much of their
time soaring. Many birds alternately flap and sail. Most small birds
progress by continuous flapping in direct, or, less commonly, undulat-
ing flight. In some birds the flight is feeble and they are reluctant
to take wing, though a few of these, as some rails, undertake sur-
prisingly long migrations.

The power of flight enables birds to live or to take refuge in trees
secure from most predators except other birds; to escape enemies by
taking to the air; and to take advantage of the concentrated life in the
warm light summer season in the far northern or southern regions,
retreating toward, to, or even through the Tropics in the dark winter.
It also enables tropical birds to wander about from one feeding ground
to another in a distant area. Although strictly diurnal in their
usual activities, many small birds migrate by night. Many of the
larger birds, as geese and swans, migrate by day or night. In contrast,
the bats, though capable of sustained flight, fly only by night except to
cool themselves in hot weather, and few are known to migrate.

All birds maintain a controlled high body temperature, higher than
that of mammals, and are continually active throughout their lives
except during sleep. A very few birds have vicarious or even fairly
long torpid periods simulating hibernation, but none estivate.

All birds breathe by internal lungs and all have more or less exten-
sive internal air sacks,

In all birds sight is the dominant sense, in some, as in owls and goat-
suckers, supplemented by acute hearing. In owls, which have the
most highly developed ears, the plumage is very soft, possibly so as
not to interfere with auditory perception, in addition to concealing
their presence. Thus birds are dependent on adequate illumination.
Their visual range is broad, including the longer wavelengths, not
visible to us, by means of which they find their way through fog, and
possibly in the case of crepuscular birds, the shorter, to us invisible,
wavelengths commonly used by insects. No birds are blind. Al-
though some take refuge or nest in caves, holes, or burrows, their es-
sential activities are always carried on outside.

The breeding habits of birds are singularly uniform. Most birds
nest in trees or on the ground, singly or in colonies, sometimes making
"a community nest, but many lay their eggs in holes or burrows. The
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

eggs of all birds are provided with a rigid calcareous shell. Nearly
all birds incubate their eggs. The young are hatched in widely differ-
ent stages of development in the different types, and are usually tended
and fed for some time by both parents or by the female, in a few only
by the male. A few birds, as the megapodes, deposit their eggs in
compost heaps as do alligators and crocodiles, or in warm sand, like
the sea turtles, and leave them to be incubated by the heat of decom-
position or of the sun.
MAMMALS

The first definitely known mammals, showing certain resemblances
to reptiles, are from the Jurassic. Although mammals are primarily
terrestrial, living on or above the surface of the ground, a number,
such as water rats, muskrats, beavers, otters, the hippopotamus, and
the platypus, are amphibious, the seals are aquatic but bear their young
on land or on ice floes, and the cetaceans are wholly aquatic, bearing
their young in the water. A few mammals, such as the moles, marsu-
pial moles, mole rats and some other rodents, are largely or almost
wholly subterranean.

The earliest known mammals were small and presumably insectiv-
orous, and many of the later types such as the present-day insectivores
and bats were and are primarily insectivorous, with the larger carni-
vores feeding chiefly on vertebrates.

At present, by far the largest mammalian group is that including
the rodents, very nearly all of which are exclusively, or almost exclu-
sively, vegetarian. With these should be considered the ecologically
similar but very much smaller group including the rabbits, hares, and
pikas. Most of the very large terrestrial mammals such as the ele-
phants, rhinoceroses, hippopotamus, tapirs, horses, the giant panda,
the great apes, kangaroos, and manatees, and all the hoofed animals
except for a few omnivorous pigs are exclusively vegetarian. These
large vegetarians are very delicately adjusted to their environment.
They require a constant and abundant supply of food and water under
a limited range of physical conditions, and are very sensitive to en-
vironmental changes greater than those that can be met by limited
migrations. A large number of rodents and the pikas store food to
tide them over unfavorable seasons, and many rodents hibernate.
Some rodents and some lemurs estivate. These characteristics, to-
gether with their much smaller size and vastly superior reproductive
powers, give the rodents a great advantage over the larger herbivores.
Strictly vegetarian and more or less omnivorous species are found in
greater or less numbers in all the other mammalian groups except the
seals and cetaceans.

All mammals are covered with hair, or at least have traces of hair,
although the elephants, rhinoceroses, some pigs, and manatees and
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 295

dugongs, and the cetaceans have the hair covering greatly reduced,
in the last two vestigial or absent in the adults. In many rodents and
in the echidnas the hairs may be transformed into spines. In the
pangolins they are grouped into broad scalelike structures. Some
mammals have bony plates in the skin which in a few, as the arma-
dillos, may form a complete bony dorsal covering. The skin is
more or less moist because of the occurrence of sweat glands.

In some shrews a pair of salivary glands is transformed into a
pair of poison glands from which ducts lead to the lower incisors,
recalling the poison apparatus of the venomous snakes.

Most mammals have two pairs of functional limbs terminating in
separate digits. The limbs may be subequal, or either pair may be
enlarged or reduced. In the seals the limbs are modified into paddles
without separate external digits, and in the cetaceans and manatees
the forelimbs are paddle-shaped, the hind limbs absent.

The bats have the forelimbs developed as wings and all of them
are capable of sustained and long-continued flight. Most of the bats
are rather small and insectivorous, but some, including the largest,
eat fruit, and a very few feed on other bats, birds, fish, or the blood
of mammals and birds. A number of mammals in widely different
groups, as the flying squirrels, flying phalangers, and Galeopithecus,
have the skin of the body greatly extended laterally forming a para-
chute by means of which they are able to make long glides through
the air, like the gliding lizards and gliding snakes.

In most mammals the body temperature is constant and high,
commonly well above that of the surrounding air, at least at night.
But the temperature of the monotremes fluctuates in response to that
of the surroundings. Some mammals, as some rodents, some bats,
and some northern bears, hibernate with reduced body temperature,
or at least become torpid, in very cold weather. Some mammals
estivate in dry hot weather.

A few bats migrate south in autumn, and a few large mammals such
as the bison withdraw southward in winter, at least in some areas.
In winter many mammals wander widely in search of food.

In the mammals all the senses—sight, hearing, smell, and touch—
are highly developed, though very unequally in the different groups.

Mammals are not dependent on bright sunlight, which most of
them avoid. Some live in caves, holes, or burrows, but feed in the
open. A few, largely blind, are subterranean.

All mammals except the egg-laying platypus and echidnas are
viviparous. They are divided into the placentals, in which a pla-
centa is present and the young at birth are at least fairly well de-
veloped, and the marsupials, in which there is usually no placenta
_ and the young are born in an extremely undeveloped condition; in
236639—53——20
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

the marsupials a pouch is usually present into which the very small
young find their way, attaching themselves to one of the mammae.
In some bandicoots, as Perameles, a placenta is present, although the
young are born in as undeveloped a condition as in the other
marsupials.

ANALYSES

In the preceding reviews of the features of the several vertebrate
classes it is evident in each case that some of the features are distinctive
and diagnostic, fundamental attributes of the classes, while others
represent specializations in various directions, attributes of what may
be called fringe or peripheral types. The fundamental characters of
the vertebrate classes seem to be the following:

Fishes—Aquatic animal feeders of fresh or saline waters subsisting
mainly on insects and other invertebrates, especially crustaceans; with
a covering of scales, naked, or with dermal scutes; body temperature
uncontrolled, approximating that of the surrounding water; breath-
ing by gills, sometimes supplemented by lunglike structures or, rarely,
lungs; not dependent on bright illumination; oviparous, the fertiliza-
tion usually external, the eggs soft, usually with a gelatinous cover-
ing or in a gelatinous matrix, sometimes in a tough capsule, attached,
less commonly scattered or pelagic; commonly with a larval stage
widely different from the adult; a few are viviparous.

Amphibians—Amphibious animals of exclusively fresh waters or
very humid regions; animal feeders subsisting chiefly on insects,
though some are detritus feeders, especially in the larval stages;
naked, with a moist skin; body temperature uncontrolled, approxi-
mating that of the surroundings; breathing by external or covered
gills or by lungs, or by both at different stages, and also through the
skin; not dependent on bright illumination, and largely nocturnal;
oviparous, the eggs fertilized externally, soft, usually in water, with
a gelatinous covering or in a gelatinous matrix; mostly with a fishlike
larval stage breathing with gills in water, later more or less terrestrial,
breathing with lungs; in a few the young are born with the adult form.

Reptiles.—Terrestrial animal feeders subsisting mainly on insects,
the largest on vertebrates; with a complete body covering of scales;
the skin is dry; body temperature uncontrolled, approximating that
of the surroundings; breathing by internal Jungs; highly dependent
on bright illumination, especially from the two ends of the spectrum,
chiefly diurnal, but the geckos mainly nocturnal and the venomous
snakes feeding mostly at night; oviparous, with internal fertilization,
the eggs with a tough or hard and rigid shell; some are viviparous;
young at birth resembling the adults.

Birds.—Predominantly terrestrial animal feeders, subsisting chiefly
on insects, but many are vegetarians, at least as adults; with a body
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 297

covering of feathers (modified scales) and scales (on the legs) ; the
skin is dry; body temperature controlled and constant, high—higher
than in the mammals; breathing by internal lungs, and with extensive
internal air sacks; highly dependent on adequate illumination, espe-
cially in the visual band of the spectrum; mostly diurnal, a few crepus-
cular, none truly nocturnal; oviparous, with internal fertilization, the
eggs always with a hard and rigid shell; the young are hatched in
various stages of development.

Mammals.—Terrestrial animal or vegetable feeders, or omnivorous;
with a body covering of hair; with sweat glands in the skin; body tem-
perature controlled and constant, nearly always higher than the sur-
roundings, at least at night, but in the monotremes variable and in
many types reduced during hibernation; breathing by internal lungs;
independent of bright illumination; diurnal or nocturnal; viviparous,
except for the oviparous monotremes, with internal fertilization, the
young born in various stages of development and fed for a varying
length of time by a secretion from the body of the mother.

The basic ecological features of the vertebrate classes may be
graphically expressed in the form of a key, as follows:

KEY TO THE BASIC ECOLOGICAL FEATURES OF THE VERTEBRATE CLASSES

a’. Dependent on a constant and abundant supply of external water ;
aquatic or amphibious; independent of bright illumination ;
cold blooded (Ichthyopsida).
b*. Strictly aquatic in fresh or saline waters of relatively large
SIZOUSE Pavey we P rersos Yelk. care es ee hes oe Sees Fishes
b?, Aquatic in strictly fresh waters of small dimensions or tem-
porary, or if of large dimensions more or less choked with
vegetation, at least when young; as adults mostly emer-
Zentwineresions Of highe humidity ee eee Amphibians
a’. Independent of a constant and abundant supply of external
water; terrestrial.
b*. Highly dependent on sunlight (Sauropsida).
c’. Cold-blooded but active and requiring a relatively large

amount of heat provided by sunlight; terrestrial______ Reptiles

c’. Warm-blooded, independent of heat from the sun; terres-
trial.) with thespower Of flight sess) se eee Birds
b?. Largely independent of sunlight; warm-blooded____________ Mammals

In order to illustrate the preceding key it is desirable to designate
definite types that may be tentatively regarded as generalized repre-
sentatives of the several classes. These types will serve to indicate
in each class an approximation to the basic or fundamental complex
as contrasted with the fringe or peripheral forms. Just what the best
representative of each class would be is, of course, a matter of personal
opinion. The following are suggested.
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Fishes: Bowfin (Amia).

Amphibians: Salamanders and their relatives (Urodela).
Reptiles: Lizards (Lacertilia).

Birds: Tinamous (Tinamidae).

Mammals: Insectivores (Insectivora, especially the Tenrecoidea).

Under the present highly diversified conditions on the earth the
mammals, the most adaptable of the vertebrates, are the dominant
type. The mammals are independent of external water, bright illu-
mination, and heat from the sun; they have an insulating covering of
hair (or blubber) and sweat glands; all the senses are highly devel-
oped; they have powerful limbs adapted for walking, running, jump-
ing, climbing, swimming, or flying, and strong jaws with diversified
teeth. Mammals are viviparous, the female in most cases raising the
young in a nest or den and always feeding them with a secretion from
her body. In the marsupials the young are born in a very undevel-
oped condition and find their own way to the mother’s pouch where
they attach themselves to a nipple; there is therefore no necessity for
a resting period for the females while producing young. The mar-
supials are thus especially well adapted to survive in areas subject to
drought or other adverse conditions when the daily feeding range of
the individuals must be greatly increased. The rodents are small,
and most of them very prolific. This enables them to withstand ad-
verse conditions, for they can become restricted to very small areas
and when conditions improve promptly spread out again. The young
of the hoofed mammals, the cetaceans, and some others are born essen-
tially as small adults so that they are able from the first to accompany
the mother, or the herd, in its wanderings.

Quite as successful as the mammals are the birds. Ecologically the
birds are complementary to the mammals rather than competitors.
Birds and mammals agree in being warm-blooded with an insulating
coating of feathers or hair; in being independent of a continuous
supply of external moisture; in having usually more or less helpless
young that require feeding and tending; and in being largely plant
feeders, at least as adults. Birds differ from mammals in their de-
pendence on strong illumination, in possessing the power of flight
(shared, however, with the bats), in being oviparous, in feeding the
young, though with material collected by the adults instead of with
a secretion from the mother, and in being toothless, which somewhat
limits their feeding range as compared, for instance, with rodents,
the dominant mammals.

Whereas mammals are predominantly ground feeders with a few
arboreal, aerial, and aquatic types, birds feed mainly in bushes and
trees though many feed on the ground or in water, and some are aerial
feeders. Except for the large herbivorous types mammals are mainly
nocturnal, birds wholly diurnal or crepuscular. The bats consume the
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 299

same food as certain birds, and both often hunt together in the evening.
But except for the large fruit bats, which have good eyes, the bats
are guided by hearing and not by sight and are active on very dark
nights when the so-called nocturnal birds are wholly inactive.

The power of flight enables the birds to populate, permanently or
temporarily, many regions where mammals are few or absent such as
swamps, marshes, offshore rocks and islands, and in the summer the
rich marshy tundras of the far north. In such regions they are often
incredibly abundant. The necessity for incubating their eggs for a
considerable time forces most birds to scatter in more or less widely
separated pairs during the breeding eason, though they may be highly
gregarious at other seasons. But in areas where there are few or no
other creatures that would feed on the eggs or young, such as inacces-
sible marshes or swamps, on isolated rocks and islands, on steep cliffs
or gravel banks, or on the Arctic tundra, birds, especially the larger
birds, often live in colonies which frequently are of immense size.
Some of the smaller tree-living birds also nest in colonies usually in
specialized nests, as the apartment nests of some weaverbirds or the
long pendent nests of the oropendolas. Some birds nest under the
protection of bees or termites, and a number in widely different groups
make no nests but deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds.

The geological history of birds appears to be parallel with that of the
mammals, and the geographical distribution of the two classes is
roughly similar. Both groups show a high degree of adaptation to
present conditions with many plant feeders. In both groups there
are few ancient types still persisting.

Reptiles differ from mammals and birds in being cold-blooded.
They agree with birds in having a dry skin and in being highly de-
pendent on sunlight. More dependent on sunlight than birds, nearly
all live in very sunny regions, especially more or less arid regions.
Nearly all reptiles lay eggs as do the birds, but the young emerge from
the eggs completely developed, except sexually, and are not tended or
fed by the parents. Nearly all modern reptiles are carnivorous,
largely insect feeders, like most birds, at least when young. Except
for being cold-blooded the reptiles in the broader aspects of their
ecology are more similar to the birds than to any other vertebrates.
Morphologically they have been united with birds under the term
Sauropsida. But some reptiles are viviparous and some are wholly
aquatic, like the sea snakes. Some have horny beaks like birds, others
uniform or more or less diversified teeth. In the past a number had
the power of flight, their wings being essentially like those of the mam-
malian bats, not like those of birds.

Whereas since the Eocene the mammals and birds have undergone
. continuous and great diversification with adaptations for the con-
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

stantly changing conditions and are today the dominant terrestrial
vertebrates, the history of the reptiles has been quite different. In the
Mesozoic the reptiles were in a high degree of development and special-
ization, and highly diversified. There were, among others, gigantic,
chiefly herbivorous dinosaurs, great marine reptiles of various kinds,
and several types of flying reptiles, together with the more familiar
crocodiles, turtles, and snakes. The development of the reptiles
reached a culmination in the Cretaceous, but toward the end of that
period most of them disappeared. Up to the end of the Cretaceous
there were 19 orders of reptiles, but since the earliest Tertiary, when
there were a very few reminders of the exceedingly rich Mesozoic
fauna, only four of these have persisted, the Rhynchocephalia, repre-
sented only by Sphenodon or Hatteria, the tuatara of New Zealand, the
crocodilians, confined to tropical and subtropical regions, the turtles,
and the Squamata, including the lizards and snakes.

The world-wide and practically simultaneous disappearance of most
of the reptiles, including all the giant terrestrial herbivorous and
carnivorous dinosaurs, the flying pterodactyls, and the large ichthyo-
saurs, plesiosaurs, and mososaurs, was followed by the evolution and
development from mammalian stock of a great variety of types oc-
cupying the former habitats of all the terrestrial reptiles, with the
cetaceans replacing the marine types. Presumably the place of the
flying reptiles was taken by certain birds.

Any satisfactory explanation of the causes of the disappearance of
the dominant reptiles and their rapid replacement by mammals must
be applicable equally to all the continents and to all the oceans as well.
In view of the dependence of practically all modern reptiles, especially
those with heavy calcareous skeletons or dermal scutes such as the
hard-shelled turtles and the crocodilians, on abundant sunlight, and
the independence of sunlight characteristic of the largely nocturnal
mammals, it would seem that a radical change in the amount or charac-
ter of the sun’s radiations reaching the earth may well have been the
chief factor in the disappearance of the reptiles leading to the domi-
nance of mammals.

During the Cretaceous there was extensive inundation of the land
areas by the sea, the continents were much isolated, and the climate
presumably was warm and uniform. At the end of the Cretaceous
there seems to have been a great upheaval of the land in both the
northern and southern hemispheres. This was accompanied by local
and intermittent volcanic activity throughout the Eocene in the Rocky
Mountain region, Central America, the East and West Indies, and
southern Europe. Any marked increase in the land area would mean
a corresponding increase in dust in the atmosphere, inorganic dust
from arid areas, and pollen and organic dust from heavily vegetated
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 301

regions. Volcanic activity would also produce a large amount of
atmospheric dust.

Of interest in regard to the latter is the information on the eruption
of Krakatoa between Sumatra and Java on May 26-28, 1883. In this
eruption the ejected column of stones, ashes, and dust was estimated
to have reached a height of 17 miles or more. ‘The finer particles were
diffused over a large part of the earth, and were carried over North
and South America, Europe, Asia, South Africa, and Australia. In
the Old World they spread from Scandinavia to the Cape of Good
Hope. And this is the record of only a single isolated eruption.

With increase in land areas and intermittent volcanic eruptions
the illumination of the surface of the earth would be considerably al-
tered. Whereas the extensive inundation of the land areas during
the Cretaceous would presumably clear the atmosphere, giving rise to
conditions especially favorable to reptiles, increase in land areas,
especially in connection with volcanic activity, would make conditions
unfavorable for reptiles while at the same time permitting the rapid
increase and diversification of mammals.

In their present distribution the land reptiles fall into two main
groups. The strictly terrestrial forms, such as the lizards and most
snakes, follow largely the distributional pattern of the mammals ex-
cept that they do not range so far north or south and, possibly because
of their greater age, there are among them more striking cases of dis-
continuous distribution resulting from extirpation over a large por-
tion of the original range. In the mammals examples of discon-
tinuous distribution are the camels, originally North American but
now represented only by two wild species in South America, two
domesticated species in South America, and two in Asia, one of which
has been introduced into Africa; the tapirs, once widespread but now
restricted to tropical America and the Malay Peninsula, Sumatra, and
Borneo; and the fresh-water dolphins of South America, India, and
China. In the Pleistocene many mammals spread from Asia into
North America, but apparently the connection between these conti-
nents was too far north to serve as a highway for any reptiles. Some
examples of discontinuous distribution in the reptiles are: The Gila
monsters (Helodermatidae), Texas, Arizona, Mexico, and Borneo;
the large herbivorous iguanas, tropical America, Madagascar, and
Fiji; the pythons, Old World and western Mexico; and the burrowing
Amphisbaena, South America and Africa. The true land tortoises
(Yestudo) are found in all tropical and warm temperate regions ex-
cept Australia.

The amphibious reptiles, the crocodilians and fresh-water turtles,
present a more generalized picture owing to the fact that aquatic
habitats are much less variable than terrestrial, the chief differential
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

here being extratropical changes in temperature. True crocodiles, ap-
pearing first in the Cretaceous, still occur throughout the Tropics.
The gavials and alligators appear in the Miocene; the gavials are now
confined to southern Asia, the alligators (with the caymans) to Amer-
ica, with one alligator in southern China. Among the fresh-water
turtles the soft-shelled type, appearing first in the Cretaceous, still
occurs in Asia, Africa, and America, as far north as Canada; the
Pelomedusidae are found in Africa and South America; and the snake-
necked turtles in South America, Australia, and New Guinea.

The amphibians occupy a very specialized habitat, essentially as
constant as the aquatic and much less variable than the terrestrial.
They differ from fishes, with which they are sometimes united under
the term Ichthyopsida, in being intolerant of salt water and as adults
living largely out of water in humid regions. Their very restricted
habitat seems to have limited their possibilities for evolution. No
fossil caecilians are known. Caecilians are now confined to South
America, the East Indies, and Ceylon, their distribution recalling
that of the tapirs. Frogs of the modern type appeared in the Jurassic
and salamanders in the Miocene. Frogs and toads occur everywhere
except in the extreme north, though toads are absent from Australia
and Madagascar. Frogs are especially well represented in South
America, but poorly represented in North America. The South
American frogs have many affinities with those of Africa, while others
are allied to those of Australia.

The salamanders and their relatives, on the other hand, are almost
wholly confined to the temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere,
especially North America, to which a dozen or more genera, including
the curious Siren and Amphiuma, are confined. Their distribution
recalls that of the North American fresh-water fishes, especially
the ganoids. Numerous instances of discontinuous distribution
suggest that the present distribution of the amphibians is in large
part a restriction of a once more or less world-wide distribution
that was attained very long ago. Examples are, the Pipidae, the
most aquatic of the frogs, found in South America and Africa; the
tailed or ribbed frogs (Liopelmidae), found in New Zealand and
from northern California to British Columbia; the Cryptobranchidae,
represented by the hellbender (Cryptobranchus) in eastern North
America and by the giant salamander (Megalobatrachus) in Japan
and China; and the Necturidae, represented by several species in east-
ern North America and one in the caves of southwestern Austria.

The fresh-water fishes occupy a habitat which in tropical and sub-
tropical regions is the least subject to change of any. So they might
be expected to present the greatest faunal uniformity, and to include
the largest number of very ancient types still persisting. In the
VERTEBRATES—CLARK 303

temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, however, the waters
are now all cold, at least in winter. Especially is this true in North
America where the Mississippi drains an area with a more or less
severe winter climate, and the present fishes are almost wholly of
types not represented in South America or in other tropical regions.

The close affinities of the fish fauna of South America with those
of Africa and the Indian region are most logically explained by
assuming that all three are local modifications of a very ancient and
generally distributed fauna persisting under conditions that have
here changed but little since the Paleozoic. In their distribution the
fresh-water fishes show many cases of apparently anomalous dis-
tribution that can be explained only by restriction of a formerly
widespread range. For example, the lungfishes are now confined
to Africa, South America, and Australia; the family Polyodontidae
is represented only in the Mississippi Valley (Polyodon) and in the
large Chinese rivers (Psephurus) ; the shovel-nosed sturgeons (Scaph-
irhynchus) are confined to the Mississippi area and central Asia; the
North American catfishes (Ameiuridae) are confined to North Amer-
ica except for a single species in China; the suckers (Catostomidae)
are wholly North American except for two species in eastern Asia;
and the mud minnows (Umbra) are confined to North America except
for a single species in the Danube Valley in Europe.

Another type of relict distribution is represented by those fishes
of which only those that have adapted themselves to life in under-
ground waters still persist. Among these are Luctfuga (Brotulidae)
of the caves of Cuba and the Amblyopsidae with four genera and seven
species in the subterranean waters of the eastern half of the Mississippi
Valley, and one genus with two species of normally appearing fishes
in the coastal swamps from Virginia to Georgia.

The gar pikes (Lepidosteus) known from as far back as the Ter-
tiary in America and Europe still occur in North and Central America
and Cuba, and another very ancient type, the bowfin (Amiéa) lives
in North America.

Considering animals as a whole, the vertebrates represent a rela-
tively small, closely Init group of large or very large types with
exceptional power of adaption to changing conditions, most highly
developed in the mammals and birds, the two classes that were the
last to appear and that have departed most widely from the original
vertebrate stock, though in such a way as to be complementary to
each other rather than direct competitors. The present distribution
of the vertebrates appears to be mainly the end result of a series of evo-
lutionary adaptations to changing conditions in each class, within
their ecological limitations, the most ecologically limited classes, and
also the oldest, the fishes and amphibians, still retaining the closest
approach to vertebrate distribution in the Tertiary.
: = ae enbficsiona! ‘uid ot RS ons ses tin

Cea ait Ul a
tak Hirata yaar Bh
“gual! Suay Sagotivh
ait aormuenels PHL: a tibe ae 1%

‘Wentiot. w Te Holker omnes Metis
Taito pot Te, itn sit 4 Pee ee de Hy

Hi pe by" Mie Giese ite Pe
~ “AggeAy- attoap ties fittest: voles a a : carers
opr, nah, tsttnis4 ih Patt hit baeeeee SAP Od ino ot :

i ~ att Kh oe igh ay Hontttros ; WIE tS! be ints it “ATRL J Aire
abit wehOY wn ities Wi ty cnt ge atidahe perenne | it si
~ etek tke £5 wf saebaiye ver HOY efor tie » TaseEN TOV fbi aris
Ray Se vary bisa APO of hi abaes Pat Ndi’ Sy moma iret Baa’ a

PSY eG LTE OLE aoeiten EGAN ne Tioewr

“eda Ph yt th Wiser» nat He {ON aA ED HST Ae ‘oct TerTOwA

: Ca int BP OS 2 elt peiosa4 botqabe evar darti- uo late doidw to
AAEM E) SANG eN Sri Bevis OHNE esas; te nae Siang,
payee Die Bia ie it SUG Sabie ak ers at ase io. a
Tt te tent pig hid Lon wel es sit [own ee

“eal uattte aie PUiierrtuis th enol OW: Hite eles ual Hite

ieee i ion re nitty more arpa We! s
“9h dy Pin add nat Be. (tore ott ‘(GSE wR) saat Fae
“gS Pisitee. Teas Bike dp2078 17 pS By Tinh wepeh ee nek BoRE Aa
“aay” (dss ey Bg ai nu At tad a: iaitit ona
raat a mL eo ay tie
te “inca hurt ssiioun tape’ oti olen be se" niin yh GARE
tiv bake aetit sr aogial toqugsg Nina acteshels q5
ee rote “Sue itinby” griggiito’ fotos ta - {utotigonx:
"OUT nkove Tety nate Sw s BAL melee ‘Bie _—— 1 baquisvel
. Waite oY ae dived jelstie’ aca: Labeqeper WA tae

ahateaty Lit Pte ght cae, aa

eee) Brae wee ipevt Pitot init oo

VR pty aves Bane rite:

iit oden ales Be Stith i O58 i aii ae

tars” “od Bite is i pris ‘Pure wits
et a .

“ me
-

i a - ins! 2 ia re
Grasshopper Glacier of Montana and Its
Relation to Long-distance Flights of
Grasshoppers

By AsHLEY B. GURNEY
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine
U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 8 plates]

Insects probably occur in situations more diverse than those oc-
cupied by any other living creatures. Some of these situations, such
as the water of tree holes and of hotsprings, the oil of petroleum pools,
and the surface of woodland snow in midwinter, are natural habi-
tats where it is perfectly normal to find particular species of insects
at one or more periods of their seasonal development. Other sub-
stances, including the resin of coniferous trees, may trap insects
that accidently become caught in the course of their normal move-
ments. A somewhat different situation is represented by snow, frozen
and solidified into ice, which under very special circumstances con-
tains the bodies of insects that apparently did not go to the vicinity
by their own choice but that nevertheless were preserved under en-
tirely natural circumstances. Thus, in several places at high eleva-
tions large ice masses or glaciers contain grasshopper remains of
uncertain age solidly frozen at considerable depths. The best known
of these frozen accumulations of grasshoppers is in Grasshopper
Glacier, located in Montana near the northeastern corner of Yellow-
stone National Park.

Grasshopper Glacier has been known for more than 55 years, and
to entomologists (who are always looking for insects in strange
places) and nonscientists alike the name of this glacier has aroused
considerable interest. Unfortunately, few trained observers have
visited Grasshopper Glacier, and there has been relatively little
factual information about either the age of the glacier itself or
the sources of the frozen insect remains. Recent observations have
attracted further attention to the glacier and have contributed some
significant facts on the grasshoppers which, at irregular intervals,
fall upon the upper surface of the ice. For these reasons, it is
. timely to assemble what is known about Grasshopper Glacier. One

305
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

species of grasshopper, Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus (Saussure),
has been identified as occurring frozen in the ice in large numbers,
and so the historical and biological details pertinent to its relation
to the glacier have been given. A related grasshopper, Melanoplus
rugglesi Gurney, was found numerous in 1949, alive on the snowfield
of the glacier. Because it was probably brought by air currents all
the way from Oregon or Nevada, where it is a rather remarkable
and at the same time an important migratory species, the story of
this grasshopper is also told here in some detail. As background
for the supposed long flights of Melanoplus rugglesi, records of ex-
tensive movements by other grasshopper species are reviewed, espe-
cially one flight of Schistocerca gregaria (Forskal) from Morocco to
Portugal, for which the supporting circumstantial evidence is partic-
ularly well documented. Those records are related to our subject
because they round out the picture, demonstrating that flights as
long as that from Oregon to Grasshopper Glacier have actually taken
place.
LOCATION AND APPEARANCE

Grasshopper Glacier is situated in the Beartooth Range of Park
County, Mont., about 30 miles due west of Red Lodge and about 12
miles north of Cooke, an old mining town through which tourists
now pass on their way from Red Lodge to Yellowstone National Park
(fig. 1). Though several small glaciers containing grasshoppers
evidently occur in the same range, Grasshopper Glacier is the one
most often visited. It is in the Beartooth Primitive Area, which
is mainly within the boundaries of the Custer National Forest and
is one of the most rugged and scenic areas in the United States left
virtually untouched by man. Granite Peak, the highest in Montana,
rising to nearly 18,000 feet, is only a few miles from the glacier, and
the glacier itself is nearly 11,000 feet above sea level.

Grasshopper Glacier is located in an old glacial cirque, which forms
a natural amphitheater just over the divide of the Beartooth Mountain
Front, and faces northward. West Rosebud Creek arises at the
foot of the glacier and flows northeasterly as a tributary of the
Yellowstone River. For several decades visitors have come by horse-
back from Cooke to Goose Lake, which is about a mile and a half
to 2 miles southwest of the glacier. From there they hike over a
rough path to the top of the divide, which is just above the glacier,
about a half mile beyond, spread before them amid a wild grandeur
which approaches the majestic proportions of the Swiss Alps. In
the 1930’s the American Nature Association conducted horseback
parties to the area, and for years Yellowstone National Park guide-
books have briefly described the glacier as one of the natural wonders
to be seen on special side trips outside of the Park. Since World
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 307

War II, many persons have come to Goose Lake by jeep. Because of
the high altitude and frequent storms, July and August are the best
months to visit Grasshopper Glacier.

In 1940 the glacier was a mile or more in width and extended
almost as far back, to the north slope of the mountain. There is
some size fluctuation from year to year, but during the past several
decades there has been an evident reduction in size. The lower ex-

We st For K,
Rosebud ‘Cr.

BS
S awtooth
S32 Mt

iy 3} = t
“SK ytor—~ Peal
Glacier C

Glacier Ge

|2
-C'O
dies National

orest
Boundary

i
D ewey 3%
SM t

Rosebud

Area

. wie \h S< O
Primitive aay ‘1 ¥ 5
Boundary Ee “M

[y
|

Ficure 1.—Cooke, Mont., and surrounding area, showing location of Grasshopper Glacier
in Custer National Forest. (Adapted from U. S. Forest Service map of Gallatin
National Forest and environs, 1947.)

tremity of the glacier is variously shaped where melting occurs, but
toward the northwestern end there is usually a vertical ice cliff,
which was described in 1940 as 50 feet high. Folded and crumpled
layers of ice, correlated with various snowfalls, are evident on this
“face.” Grasshoppers seem to be embedded from top to bottom of
the glacier, and above, when the snow is gone, they have been found
frozen in the surface ice. Dark bands in the ice are popularly thought

1. C. Curtiss, supervisor of the Custer National Forest, estimates (letter of Sept.
22, 1952) that at least a dozen organized parties visit the area each year, in addition to
. perhaps 25 persons who do so as individuals or in small parties. Many who go to the
area do not actually reach the glacier itself, and relatively few see the grasshoppers.
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

to consist entirely of grasshoppers, but they usually comprise dirt and
various morainic debris in addition to grasshoppers. At the bottom
of the face of the glacier, which overhangs a small lake, the grass-
hoppers are still mixed with the dirt and other debris where melting
occurs. Lovering (1929, p. 41, pl. 13), in an important paper on
the geology of the area, states that birds and fish “feed eagerly” upon
the bodies of the grasshoppers as the ice releases them. He may have
had reference to fish located some distance downstream, where some
of the better-preserved grasshoppers have been washed during pe-
riods of pronounced melting, since it is not clear whether fish occur
in the pond at the immediate foot of the glacier. Dr. J. R. Parker,
of Bozeman, Mont., a lifelong observer of grasshoppers, has told me
of finding large quantities of the badly decomposed and broken
grasshoppers in 1931. “As we approached the Glacier,” he says,
“the wind was blowing toward us and at a distance of about one-
fourth mile we began to notice the odor of something rotten. When
we reached the Glacier we found that grasshoppers had been uncov-
ered by melting ice and had washed down and over the face of the
Glacier where they were in piles 2 to 4 feet deep and smelling to high
heavens.”

SOURCE OF THE GRASSHOPPERS

How do the grasshoppers become preserved in the ice, and why
are they here when most glaciers have no such inclusions in quantity ?
Dr. Parker has explained to me the circumstances which he feels may
be responsible for these conspicuous deposits in Grasshopper Glacier.
The ice field of the glacier is in a saddle between high peaks, and
there is considerable air movement, the air being funneled between
the peaks and over the glacier. Insects of many kinds settle upon
the glacier and the surrounding snow fields, some doubtless being
carried by air currents until they become chilled above the glacier
and settle. Dr. Parker has added:

Another way in which large numbers of grasshoppers could have accumu-
lated on the glacier would be as a result of a sudden change of weather condi-
tions while a swarm of grasshoppers was passing over the Glacier even though
it was too high to be affected by the cold air immediately above it. We know
that swarms of grasshoppers remain in flight only while the air is warm.
Sudden changes to lower temperatures, or cloudiness, often cause them to close
their wings and plummet to the ground in great numbers. Storms are frequent
in the high mountains, and on Grasshopper Glacier in July I have seen warm
bright sunny weather followed within an hour by snow and near freezing tem-
peratures. Had a swarm of grasshoppers been flying over the Glacier at that
time it would have descended upon it and have been embedded in the snow
and ice. I believe the successive large accumulations came about in this manner.
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 309

Even if not brought down by a storm, grasshoppers falling on the
snow or ice become inactive after a few hours and eventually die.
Satisfactory preservation depends upon low temperatures and espe-
cially upon the grasshoppers’ becoming embedded in the snow or ice
before decomposition reaches an advanced state. It is likely that
certain grasshoppers reaching the glacier decompose and disintegrate
before freezing takes place, while others may be covered immediately
by snow and frozen so that a perfect “deep-freeze” effect occurs.

AGE OF THE GRASSHOPPER DEPOSITS

The question immediately arises as to the age of the lowest layers
of preserved grasshoppers. Unfortunately no reliable estimate is
available, though there are plans for making a study by the carbon-14
test, the most modern method available. This method is based on
the fact that carbon-14 decays at a known rate, and when the amount
of carbon-14 in a particular object is known, its age can be calculated
(see Kulp et al., 1952) .?

Roberts (1952) has briefly but concisely explained the test and
has discussed archeological materials that have been studied by this
method.

In August 1951, Dr. Irving Friedman, of the United States Geo-
logical Survey, visited Grasshopper Glacier and collected grasshop-
per fragments from the vertical ice face for the purpose of carry-
ing out a carbon-14 test at the Institute for Nuclear Studies, Uni-
versity of Chicago. The sample proved, however, to be inadequate,
being less than the approximate 15 grams of dry weight required, and
so, on August 28-30, 1952, Dr. Friedman again visited the glacier,
with three associates, and obtained more grasshopper material.*

Can it be that the ice at the bottom of Grasshopper Glacier dates
back to the Pleistocene period or soon thereafter, or is it likely to
be of much more recent origin? Though the eagerly awaited re-
sults of a carbon-14 test seem the most likely to give a definite answer,
the historical geology of the area and some clarification of factors re-

*See further comment on p. 326.

7As an example of an age estimate arrived at by the carbon-14 method, Kulp et al.
(1951) report their results from various samples, including a fossil cedar log dredged
from a harbor in Bermuda. ‘The log is considered representative of a former cedar forest
which now is covered by 20 to 50 feet of water and mud. From the test conducted at
Columbia University, the age was calculated at 11,500 (+700) years. The importance
of this particular age determination is that the tree containing the log presumably grew
in the same position, indicating that the ocean was then at a much lower level; this in turn
correlated with the period when much of the earth’s water was still in the form of a
glacial covering. On the basis of this and other confirmatory studies, the last main stage
of the Pleistocene Epoch or Great Ice Age is thought to have been about 11,000 years ago.
Kulp and his associates also ran a test on a large wood sample that had been found beneath
gravel of the Mendenhall Glacier, Alaska. The sample was apparently from trees that
had been passed over by the glacier, so that the layers of glacial deposits associated with
the wood at that location are likely to be of a comparable age. This sample yielded an
estimate of 1,790 years, with a possible variation of 250 years.
310 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

lated to the age of American glaciers supply informative background.

Bevan and Dorf (1932) give a brief digest of the topography and
geological history of the Beartooth Range, explaining that in late
Tertiary and early Quaternary time, following an uplift of the moun-
tains, an ice cap developed on the plateaulike summit of the range.
The ice was extensive and when at its maximum development com-
prised 15 different glacier systems in the northern and eastern parts
of the Beartooth Range. Much of the area has since become a great
irregular subsummit peneplain, some 8,000 to 4,000 feet above the
surrounding plain, and sloping generally to the southwest. Upon
this mountain mass the high peaks are arranged along a divide
which runs from northwest to southeast. About the peaks many
large cirques occur as silent testimony of early erosive glaciation,
and in some of the scooped-out amphitheaters small glaciers now oc-
cur, one of them being Grasshopper Glacier.

The presence of existing glaciers in the Beartooth Range was not
reported during the first explorations there. In reviewing North
American glaciers, Russell (1885) quotes one of the exploring geolo-
gists, W. H. Holmes, regarding small glaciers in the Tetons of Wyo-
ming, stating that in the Beartooth Range he was “unable to discover
anything approaching a glacier in appearance, even in the center of
the great mass about the sources of Clark’s Fork and the Rosebud.”
If entirely absent then, of course the preserved grasshoppers of Grass-
hopper Glacier represent very recent deposits. The first scientist to
examine Grasshopper Glacier, so far as I know, was James P. Kimball,
of the United States Geological Survey, who made a geological re-
connaissance of the area in 1898. In his opinion (Kimball, 1899, p.
213), Holmes did not visit the high country where glaciers are located.
T have mentioned the Holmes statement to several scientists who have
since visited Grasshopper Glacier, and they too feel that it is unlikely
that he actually penetrated the Beartooth Range sufficiently to locate
the glacier, in view of its relative inaccessibility.

How ancient are American glaciers, and do they all date back to the
main “ice age”? Ina series of studies by several investigators, the re-
sults of which have been assembled by the late Dr. Francois Matthes,
then chairman of a committee on glaciers of the American Geophysical
Union, much helpful background on the question is supplied (Matthes,
1941, 1942a, 1942b). In brief, it appears that a warm period, called a
“climatic optimum,” followed the Pleistocene and that the great ma-
jority of glaciers now occurring in the United States did not then ex-
ist. Studies of the salt content of Owens Lake, which is fed primarily
by water from snow fields and glaciers in the Mount Whitney section
of the Californian Sierras, and other investigations, suggest that these
“modern” glaciers may not date back more than 3,600 to 4,000 years.
PEATE 1

Smithsonion Report, 1952.—Gurney

“ARMIEY Iplowg usayIWON yi jo Asaqinoo ‘(Foz “d ‘ge6J) F[0xY
seM oinjoid oules SIU,

Aq peysiqnd
*Iaqieg “yf ‘f{ aq jo Asaqinoo ‘apoy “AA “{ Wor pouleiqgo ‘oqep ureqiaoun jo ‘ydeis0j0yg

‘uoIpadxe Est 243 UO TTequITy
"qd souref ‘Iq patueduosoe oym “yse AA ‘a[jveg Woz Joydeisojoyd v ‘asi A “Gq “VY JOF poweu ‘asp JUNOJL SI Jo1ov[s dy} JO punoIsyoeq ojeIpowWU sy UT

GNNOYSSayHO4 LHSIY NI ASITD 3D] ONIMOHS ‘A TYALSVAHLNOS ONIMOOT ‘YsIODV1ID YaddOHSSVYD AO ASVg

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 2

1. FRONT OF ICE CLIFF, JULY 13, 1922

View from moraine below showing unconformities and crumpling of ice strata. Arch at
right apparently due to overriding of rock ridge.

2. GRASSHOPPER GLACIER, JULY 14, 1922, LOOKING EAST ACROSS TOP OF IGE
CLIFF AT THE FRONT OF THE GLACIER

Photographs by Dr. W. C. Alden, courtesy of National Park Service.
PLATE 3

—Gurney

1952

Smithsonian Report,

cS6l

"ADAING [BIISO[OID *g “/F) ‘uvUIpalty Surry aq] Aq ydeaZoyoyg ‘arnqoid ay3 jo Yay ay 01 Ja1I9e][3 JUIII JO vor UIeT
0&-8¢ LSNONY “LSAMHLNOS ONIMOOT ‘vaeV ONIGNNOYYNS ANY ‘AMV ‘4sIID 3D] 4O MAIA DINVYONVd ALISOdWOD

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 4

Two VIEWS OF ICE CLIFF AND LAKE IN AUGUST 1951, SHOWING SHELF OF ICE
UNDER CURVED ICE CORNICE TO THE RIGHT

In 1952 the shelf was gone and the curving layers beneath the cornice were approached
only by using a boat. Photographs by Dr. Irving Friedman, U. S. Geological Survey.
Smithsonion Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 5

1. NEAR WESTERN END OF ICE CLIFF UNDER CURVING ICE CORNICE

Boring a hole in the ice at front of ice cliff, August 28-30, 1952, preparatory to blasting to
obtain chunks of ice containing grasshoppers. Photograph by Dr. Irving Friedman,
courtesy of U. S. Geological Survey.

" __ ee ee =
» 2. THE MORE RECENT GLACIER, AUGUST 2, 1949

Looking northeasterly. Margin of the morainic covering of “old glacier” in foreground at
left; lake to the left hidden by dome of the “old glacier.”” Photograph by Barry Park,
courtesy of U. S, Forest Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 6

= 2

1. GOOSE LAKE, ON THE WAY TO GRASSHOPPER GLACIER, JULY 13, 1922
Photograph by Dr. W. C. Alden, courtesy of National Park Service.

2. SPECIMENS OF PRESERVED GRASSHOPPERS FROM THE GRASSHOPPER GLACIER

Photograph from Union Pacific System, courtesy of National Park Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 7

MELANOPLUS MEXICANUS MEXICANUS (SAUSSURE), FEMALES, SHOWING DIFFER-
ENCES IN SIZE AND WING LENGTH

A, typical eastern specimen from Stony Man Mountain, Shenandoah National Park, Va.,
1933; B, moderately long-winged specimen from Independence, Kans., 1902; C, extremely
long-winged specimen of a type rarely found, collected from a lush irrigated alfalfa field,
Chandler, Ariz., 1945; D, an authentic historic specimen of Rocky Mountain grasshopper
(from C. V. Riley collection), collected in Monona County, Iowa, August 1873. En-
larged slightly more than twice. Photographs by Floyd B. Kestner, Smithsonian
Institution.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Gurney PLATE 8

SPECIMENS OF MELANOPLUS RUGGLESI GURNEY, SHOWING DIFFERENCES IN SIZE
AND WING LENGTH

A, male of solitary phase from Rock Springs, Wyo., 1922; B, female of solitary phase from
Wild Rose Canyon, Panamint Range, Inyo County, Calif., 1922; C, female in intermediate
phase from near Whitehorse, Oreg., 1949; D, male of gregarious (migratory) phase from
Craine Creek, Humboldt County, Nev., 1948; E, female of gregarious phase from Gerlach,
Washoe County, Nev., 1947. Enlarged 24 times. Photographs by Floyd B. Kestner.
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 311

During this Recent period, in which we now live and to which the term
“little ice age” has been applied, there have in turn been climatic fluc-
tuations. In the Middle Ages comparatively mild conditions existed,
but around A. D. 1600, as shown by buried villages in Iceland and
evidence in Scandinavia and elsewhere, there began a moderate but
definite expansion of glaciers. In recent decades there has been a tend-
ency for many, but not all, glaciers to recede again. “The present re-
cession of glaciers, which began in the 1850’s and which since 1920
has proceeded at an accelerated rate, is merely the latest episode in the
‘little ice age.’ It may mark the end, or it may not” (Matthes, 1942b).
Since Dr. Matthes’ death it has become increasingly evident that the
recession of many glaciers is decreasing and some are advancing again
(Baird et al., 1951). About 7 years ago a minor climatic change of
increased precipitation and lower temperature began to occur in
Glacier National Park. Frequently, some years are required for minor
changes in climate to have noticeable results at the foot of a glacier, so
slowly are effects transmitted for the length of a glacier.

As examples of glacial decline, the Easton Glacier on Mount Baker,
Wash., receded 4,900 feet between 1908 and 1936, and some small
glaciers on the Cascade Range in Oregon have entirely disappeared
in the past 25 years. The recession of the Nisqually Glacier on Mount
Rainier has been conspicuous and has been carefully recorded, amount-
ing to 4,708 feet from 1857 to 1951, an average of about 5,000 feet per
year. There is a practical importance to the measurements made on
the Nisqually Glacier because water originating there contributes
to the municipal water supply of Tacoma, Wash. If the glacier even-
tually disappears or becomes much smaller than at present, supple-
mentary sources may be required.

Changes in the size and appearance of Grasshopper Glacier have
been observed by Dr. J. R. Parker, who has given me an account of
five separate trips there. He first visited it with Dr. R. A. Cooley in
July 1918, and they found the glacier much as shown in plate 1. He
judged the exposed face toward the west end to be 50 to 75 feet from
the ground to the top layer of ice and snow. He cut individual grass-
hoppers from the top layer at depths of 1 to 12 inches. Grasshoppers
also were found in lower layers where exposed at the foot of the glacier,
and dried grasshopper remains were found under many small flat
rocks which occurred on the higher slopes adjoining the snow and
ice field of the glacier. Dr. Parker reasoned that this last condition
indicated that the glacier at sometime had covered a considerably
larger area and had contained grasshoppers there before it had
receded. He made other trips in 1922, and in either 1925 or 1926, and
found the general appearance to be the same on each occasion. During
a 1931 visit he estimated that the face was 25 feet lower. When there

236639—53——21
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

in 1949, Dr. Parker found that instead of the sharp, high glacial face,
as in 1918-81, the face had receded by melting and that there was a
gentle upward slope to the snow-covered ice farther back against the
mountain. The condition that occurred in 1951 is shown in photo-
graphs made by Dr. Irving Friedman (pl. 4).

At present the main area of the glacier appears newer than a dome-
shaped mass of ice which is the best source of preserved specimens.
This dome, well shown in the photographs, and sometimes known as
the “old glacier,” is what remains of the imposing ice cliff photo-
graphed by Dr. W. C. Alden in 1922 (pl. 2). F. C. Curtiss, of the
Custer National Forest Headquarters in Billings, Mont., attributes
the large amount of new ice covering the “old glacier” to the wet cycle
which has occurred there since the dry years of the 1930’s. With the
recession of the “old glacier” the pool resulting from the melting ice
has become enlarged, and the face of the ice cliff is very dark with in-
cluded morainic debris and with that which falls down from the
covering of the dome above.

Two principal types of glaciers, from the point of view of age, oc-
cur in the United States. The first category, much in the minority,
consists of those which can with “reasonable certainty be said to have
persisted from the Pleistocene ice age.” They originate at higher
altitudes or for other reasons appear much more permanent. The re-
mainder, averaging smaller and located at lower altitudes for the
most part, and including most of the glaciers of the United States, are
thought to have existed only during the “little ice age” period. Thus,
the age of Grasshopper Glacier is very uncertain, depending on the
category to which it belongs. Although most of the North American
glaciers of the “ancient” type occur in the Far West and Alaska it was
believed by Matthes that several of that sort occur in Glacier Na-
tional Park, Mont., and in the Wind River Range of Wyoming.
More recent studies of the factors leading to the development of
glaciers have suggested that all the Glacier National Park and Wind
River Range glaciers instead belong to the “recent” category, thus
originating within 4,000 years. The Beartooth Range glaciers have
not been studied in detail from the standpoint of age, but they are
comparable to most of the Wind River Range glaciers, with respect
to altitude and their location in old glacial cirques on the east side of
the divide where snow from westerly winds blows onto and augments
the ice. The eventual placement of Grasshopper Glacier, regarding
the category to which it belongs, may have a direct bearing on the age
of the oldest insects there included.

THE SPECIES OF GRASSHOPPERS PRESERVED

Nearly 40 years ago preserved grasshoppers had been collected for
scientific purposes from the ice of Grasshopper Glacier, but their oc-
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 313

currence was known prior to Kimball’s survey in 1898. Prospectors
in the 1880’s probably discovered them. Notes filed at the United
States National Museum by the late A. N. Caudell, a specialist in the
identification of grasshoppers and related insects, include the remark
that on September 26, 1914, and November 17, 1919, he prepared mem-
oranda on Grasshopper Glacier for Dr. L. O. Howard, then Chief of
the United State Bureau of Entomology, but the memoranda have
not been located. An anonymous unpublished report from the His-
torical Records of the Custer National Forest states that Forest Serv-
ice officers collected specimens in 1914 that were identified as Meluno-
plus spretus, which we now know as MM. mewxicanus mexicanus. Un-
doubtedly these specimens were examined by Caudell and led to the
1914 memorandum mentioned. Alden (1922) tells of gathering speci-
mens which likewise were identified as spretus by Caudell. Thirteen
specimens from the glacier are in the National Museum. They are
somewhat fragmentary, but two are males, which possess the special
features that are distinctive of species in the genus Melanoplus. They
are clearly Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus, commonly known as the
lesser migratory grasshopper or Rocky Mountain grasshopper. The
significance of these two common names and the long history of this
species will be told here only sufficiently to explain why the discovery
of this particular grasshopper in the ice is of outstanding interest.

During the past century, especially in the 1870’s and 1880’s, farmers
of the Great Plains and of the western prairies beyond the Mississippi
River often were plagued by great hordes of grasshoppers which ap-
peared in migratory swarms and devastated crops. In its typical
condition the dominant species had pink or bright-red hind tibiae,
the wings were noticeably long, and migrations of many miles fre-
quently occurred. This grasshopper had various common names, of
which Rocky Mountain grasshopper has persisted, though it was
often known as a locust. The scientific name applied to it by Amer-
ican entomologists during the early 1870’s when federally supported
investigations were in their infancy was Caloptenus spretus Walsh,
later changed to Welanoplus spretus (Walsh). About the same time,
especially farther east, it was noticed that certain grasshopers could
scarcely be distinguished from spretus, though they averaged smaller
and shorter-winged, did not migrate conspicuously, and the hind tibiae
were occasionally pale bluish green. These smaller specimens are of
the lesser migratory grasshopper, given various scientific names by
the older entomologists working largely independently of one another
and not realizing that the subject of their study inhabits most of tem-
perate North America and that it looks somewhat different in various
areas and under different conditions of food and climate. Its identity
as Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus was not finally established until
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

recent years (Hebard, 1917, p. 271). A more intriguing puzzle, one
with thoroughly practical aspects, concerns the almost complete dis-
appearance of J/. spretus after the last big flights of the 1800’s. Oc-
casional specimens commonly considered to be abnormally long-
winged representatives of the lesser migratory grasshopper are found
from year to year, and during certain years moderately important
flights of that species take place, but in spite of its importance as a
pest there is no recurrence of the tremendous, devastating flights of
the last century. It is now believed, with reasonable certainty, that
only one species of grasshopper is involved in this particular problem ;
to it the earliest name (meaicanus) applies. The species is capable
of undergoing changes in its behavior and appearance as a result of
the ecological conditions of its environment. Thus, spretus is a syn-
onymous name, and the common name Rocky Mountain grasshopper
applies primarily to the optimum migratory form of the species.

THE PHASES OF MIGRATORY GRASSHOPPERS

The realization that a few species of grasshoppers, apparently in-
cluding the majority of the major migratory grasshoppers of the
world, have this ability to modify their color, wing length, and tend-
ency to migrate in swarms is one of the basic entomological discoveries
of our generation. It is extremely important because destructive
migratory species formerly would seemingly disappear after a period
of abundance, and frequently in their place only small numbers of
scattered and relatively unimportant grasshoppers could be found.
Later, the migratory pest form would reappear in an unexplained
manner. Credit for first suggesting that this transformation occurs,
and for reporting the first observations that demonstrated it in the
field, belongs to Dr. B. P. Uvarov, now director of the Anti-Locust
Research Center in London. This idea, which became known as the
Phase Theory, was proposed in 1921, and by various entomologists,
especially those working in Africa, it has been advanced from a theory
to the realm of fact. It has led to a much more realistic approach
to the whole problem of migratory grasshoppers,‘ and places the

3In the United States and Canada there are some 600 species of grasshoppers, not
including katydids, crickets, and other relatives. Of the 600, several dozen have destruc-
tive habits in relation to cultivated crops or range land. Of this number, only four are
well known for their migratory flights. About a dozen highly important migratory grass-
hoppers infest foreign countries, among several thousand grasshopper species that have
been described and named.

4The term “locust” as usually used means a grasshopper that is outstandingly migra-
tory in its behavior. Foreign entomologists usually use “locust” in that sense and
apply “grasshopper” only to the species that lack conspicuous gregarious and migratory
habits. There is no clear line of distinction between the two, however, since both types
of species belong to the same group and certain species are sometimes solitary and at
other times migratory. Furthermore, some writers on the classification of grasshoppers
refer in a general way to whole subfamilies of grasshoppers as “locusts,” irrespective of
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 315

search for population build-ups and incipient outbreaks on a much
more scientific basis than formerly. Aggregations of a species ca-
pable of undergoing phase transformation may be sampled and from
the appearance of the individuals it can be determined whether they
belong to the phase which typically is of minor importance (solitary
phase), or whether in wing length and other characteristics there is
a trend toward the typically long-winged and highly destructive mi-
gratory condition in which the individuals gather in compact swarms
(gregarious phase). While the phase characteristics of samples are
sometimes clear by simple inspection of specimens, in other cases it
is necessary to measure parts of the body in order to obtain certain
ratios which are valuable clues to phase change. The ratio most often
used is that obtained by dividing the length of the front wing (called
the elytron, or tegmen) by the length of the hind femur; hence the
abbreviation, #/F ratio. With different migratory species the ratio
that is most sensitive to phase changes, and thus most dependable as
an indicator of phase condition, varies. For instance, it has recently
been learned that a ratio utilizing the width of the grasshopper’s head
at the broadest expanse of the cheeks is very useful for identifying
the phase of Schistocerca gregaria, the desert locust of North Africa
and western Asia.

Now to return to the samples of Melanoplus mexicanus mexicanus
from the solid ice of Grasshopper Glacier. They were first identified
as M. spretus by Caudell who at the time did not have the benefit of
modern studies by Faure (1933) and Brett (1947), which indicate
the synonymy of spretus. The specimens I have seen are rather long-
winged individuals suggestive of the gregarious phase, but they are
too broken to permit complete measurements to be made. Further-
more, the samples include too few specimens for a reliable conclusion.
When Dr. Parker visited the glacier in 1931 he noticed in particular
the red hind tibiae of specimens uncovered by the melting ice. This
agreed with the gregarious phase, though it did not rule out the soli-
tary phase. When sufficiently large and perfect samples are obtained
from the ice a statistical study of the Z'/F ratio may of itself be very
suggestive of the correct biological nature of the specimens in the
older preserved layers. If their age is also determined by the carbon-
14 test or other means, we will then have information on the phase
character of this highly important grasshopper for a known period
in its past history, the doors to which are now entirely closed to us.

their tendencies to migrate. The possibilities for confusion are still further increased
by the habit, among the general public in the United States, of calling cicadas “locusts.”
These insects, of which the periodical cicada or “17-year locust’ is best known, belong
to a quite unrelated group. For the sake of clarity, North American entomologists now
tend to avoid the use of “locust”? except when referring to foreign species of grasshoppers
for which the term has clearly been established.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952
LIVING GRASSHOPPERS ON THE GLACIER

Until 1949 nothing unusual was known about living grasshoppers
on Grasshopper Glacier. Forest rangers report finding grasshoppers
and other winged insects alive on the snow field each summer (F. C.
Curtiss, letter of Sept. 8, 1952). On August 14, 1922, Dr. Parker
found many flying insects on the snow of the glacier, including a live
specimen of Pardalophora haldemannii (Scudder), a widespread
grasshopper common in both Montana and Wyoming. It was typical
of species occurring at lower elevations of the surrounding area. That
grasshoppers should occasionally be found at high altitudes on snow
is not remarkable. Caudell (1902) recorded them, taken in 1901
from snow at the summit of Pikes Peak, Colo. Darrah (1951, p. 101)
described a striking instance of grasshoppers on snow fields in valleys
near the headwaters of the St. Vrain River, at the foot of Longs Peak,
Colo., witnessed by a geological-survey party headed by Maj. J. W.
Powell. On that occasion, August 23, 1868, they saw grasshoppers
numbed by the cold so numerous on snow fields that they “literally
could have been gathered in wagonloads.” ‘Two bears were feeding
on the grasshoppers.°

As to the occurrence of insects on the surface of glaciers, Russell
(1897, pp. 13-14), after mentioning how pebbles, part of the morainic
debris on the ice, become warmed and melt holes into which they
sink, states, “Leaves are frequently blown far out on glaciers and,
becoming warmed by the sun, sink into the ice in the same manner as
the pebbles already referred to, and even insects, especially butter-
flies, are conspicuous in such localities.”

On August 1, 1949, Dr. Parker, accompanied by David G. Hall
and Frank T. Cowan, hiked up to the glacier hoping to gather samples
of the preserved grasshoppers. Unfortunately, little historic material
was taken, but attention was attracted to something else—live grass-
hoppers on the snow. Since time was short, it being important to
leave before darkness fell, only about 30 specimens were collected.
Dr. Parker has estimated, however, that there was about one grass-
hopper to every 20 square yards of snow in the area visited, and that
several hundred specimens could have been taken. Because of the
inhospitable character of the surrounding terrain, and the way the

5 A newspaper account originating in Greeley, Colo., in 1934 stated that large deposits
of grasshoppers had been discovered imbedded in snow and ice on Longs Peak in Rocky
Mountain National Park, Colo. According to a pioneer resident, the source of the grass-
hoppers is explained by swarms which in 1876 flew from the plains and perished in the
snow and ice of Hallet’s Glacier, north of Longs Peak. Bears fed on the dead insects,
preserved by natural refrigeration, for several years. The summer of 1934 was notice-
ably hot and dry in that area, and it was assumed that the grasshoppers uncovered by
melting were the same ones reported to have flown to the Longs Peak region 58 years
before. No further information bearing on the accuracy of this conclusion is available.
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 317

grasshoppers were distributed on the snow, it was obvious that they
had come by air.

The dominant species present was Melanoplus rugglest. Collected
with rugglest were two specimens (male, female) of M. mexicanus
mexicanus (solitary phase) and one male of 7'rimerotropis pallidi-
pennis (Burmeister). The latter is a widespread but not very im-
portant grasshopper. All were alive. Though then without a scien-
tific name, rugg/est had attracted attention in Nevada since 1939 (see
Gallaway, 1949), and during the previous month both Hall and
Cowan had observed its flights in Nevada and Oregon. Both men were
immediately struck by the similarity of the specimens on the snow
to the material studied in the infested area.

Specimens of rwgglest subsequently sent to me were identified inde-
pendently and before the remarkable circumstances of their capture
on the snow in Montana, far from the normal habitat, were explained.
I was especially interested in the species because during the previous
May and June I too had studied this grasshopper in Nevada and
Oregon. Briefly, the background concerning it is that before 1939
there are no definite records of important infestations, but in that
year it appeared as a conspicuous migratory species feeding on sage-
brush, rabbitbrush, and other range plants in Big Smoky Valley
of central Nevada. Bands of immature individuals, or nymphs,
advanced in fairly compact aggregations; then, as wings developed
fully, swarms of adults at first took short flights. Later, when the
grasshoppers were more thoroughly mature, their flights became
longer and were dramatic affairs when witnessed by entomologists
or local ranchers. An average of about 40 miles would be covered
over a period of a week or more before a swarm would deposit the
main egg supply for its progeny. These eggs would hatch the follow-
ing year and the bulk of the population would again move forward,
usually in a northerly or northwesterly direction. By the late 1940’s
the migrations had reached southeastern Oregon and northeastern
California and in Nevada occurred only in the northwestern corner
of the State. So far as then known to entomologists, the species had
disappeared from central Nevada. At first there was some uncer-
tainty concerning the identity of this grasshopper, but it was seen to
be Melanoplus occidentalis (Thomas) or a close relative.

My 1949 field observations, and later studies of assembled reference
collections, convinced me that the grasshopper had not been named,
- and I proposed a name in memory of one of my former teachers at
the University of Minnesota, Prof. A. G. Ruggles, himself an en-
thusiastic student of grasshoppers and at least twice a companion of
Dr. Parker on trips to Grasshopper Glacier. Little did he suppose
that amid the rugged beauty of those great peaks of the Beartooth
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Range a grasshopper new to science would one day be collected far
from its native surroundings and be given his name!

But vastly more significant, from the standpoint of a field biolo-
gist, were my collections in Big Smoky Valley, and other localities
where migrations had occurred a few years earlier, for they showed
that rugglesi still existed there, though in scattered numbers, and
the wings were shorter than in migrating swarms! <A few specimens
that obviously were completely solitary in phase characteristics were
found in collections of grasshoppers taken at several localities in
years before the important infestations began. Accordingly, phase
transformation evidently occurs in rugglesi, though additional ob-
servations are required to supply the complete details of the changes
that take place and the ecological conditions producing them.

The specimens of rugglest found alive on Grasshopper Glacier
were clearly distinct from the related M. occidentalis which inhabits
the surrounding area of Montana and Wyoming and practically
all the Rocky Mountain and northern Great Plains regions. The
long wings, well-indicated by the #//’ ratio, were typical of the
optimum gregarious phase such as represented in migratory flights.

DISTRIBUTION OF MELANOPLUS RUGGLESI AND PROBABLE SOURCE OF
GLACIER SPECIMENS

In 1949 the gregarious phase of rugglesi was known only in north-
western Nevada, northeastern California, and southeastern Oregon
(mainly in the vicinity of Denio), in any case a distance of at least
500 miles from Grasshopper Glacier. A single specimen in the soli-
tary phase was collected near Arco, Idaho, by Rehn and Hebard in
1928, and another of the same phase was taken at Rock Springs, Wyo.,
by Rehn in 1922. Field work may eventually disclose colonies of
the gregarious type in southern Idaho and thereby suggest the pos-
sibility of their unreported presence there or at other localities in
1949. Owing to the widespread movements of rugglest when migrat-
ing, however, and the phase changes that occur, collections made after
1949 will be unreliable indicators of what occurred in 1949. Mean-
while, it is helpful to examine circumstantial evidence suggesting
that a 1949 movement to the glacier from Oregon or Nevada may
have taken place.

Immediately after August 1, 1949, field men assigned to grasshopper
survey work by the United States Bureau of Entomology and Plant
Quarantine who were located in range areas both west and east of
Grasshopper Glacier were alerted to watch for rugglest in conjunc-
tion with their regular duties. No trace of rugglesi was found, though
occidentalis was collected and submitted for checking.

In July 1949 extensive flights of rwgglest occurred in the infested
area of Oregon and Nevada, and they remained in progress up to
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 319

August 1. Flights occurred both near ground level and at considerable
altitudes. The grasshoppers usually fly into the wind, unless it is too
strong to make headway against it. Winds which approach 10
miles per hour are probably strong enough in most instances to stop
the grasshoppers or effect a change of direction. Since it is well
known that air currents play an important part in the spread of in-
sects, I consulted Weather Bureau records covering the period im-
mediately prior to August 1, 1949, for the area concerned. Through
the kind cooperation of several Weather Bureau officials, it can be
stated that apparently the meteorological conditions on and just
before August 1 favored a movement to the glacier from the southwest.
On July 29-30 there was a 10-mile wind over southern Idaho blow-
ing toward the east and northeast; this was strongest at high levels
and may have carried the grasshoppers eastward. On July 31 there
were strong eastward-blowing winds at 12,000 feet and above, weaker
below. Over eastern Oregon on July 380 there was a 10- to 20-
mile wind toward the northeast at 10,000 feet above sea level. (The
base level of much of southeastern Oregon is 5,000 to 6,000 feet above
sea level.) Reports from Boise, Idaho, and Ogden, Utah, indicate
strong upward convection currents over southern Idaho July 30-31.

Archer B. Carpenter, supervising forecaster of the Salt Lake City,
Utah, office of the Weather Bureau wrote (letter of September 8,
1949): “Several days prior to August 1, 1949, the winds at 10,000
feet (above sea level) were sufficient to carry the grasshoppers from
southeastern Oregon into southern Montana if they were able to reach
that altitude. Winds below 10,000 feet were of a similar pattern but
lower velocities, and at higher altitudes a similar pattern but usually
higher velocities.”

One of the Grasshopper Glacier collectors, Mr. Hall, has reported
to me his conversation with an air-line pilot who at about the same
time saw a swarm of grasshoppers while he was flying in the vicinity
of eastern Oregon. The circumstances suggested that the species
might be rugglesi.

OTHER LONG-DISTANCE MOVEMENTS OF GRASSHOPPERS BY AIR

In considering the possibilities of a several-hundred-mile flight of
rugglest to Grasshopper Glacier, probably aided by air currents, it is
helpful to review records of long flights by other species. ‘These
records show that flights of several hundred miles actually occur when
circumstances are favorable. An example for which weather condi-
tions were known and apparently times and points of departure and
arrival also, is that discussed by Waloff (1946) for the desert locust
of Africa, Schistocerca gregaria. Many individuals of this grass-
hopper were found in Portugal October 12, 1945, and the circumstan-
tial evidence, which Waloff explains in detail, and which I have sum-
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

marized briefly here, made her feel fairly certain that the grasshoppers
originated in western Morocco, where they probably left the morn-
ing of October 11, arriving over Portugal late that night or the next
day. The distance involved was 600 to 800 miles, varying with dif-
ferent localities in Portugal where they were found. Very complete
information on grasshopper movements in Africa was available, and
the nearest reported swarm of a comparable age, the degree of sexual
maturity after the final molt in that species being shown by color, was
in western Morocco. On the morning of October 11 there was a sharp
rise in temperature, which presumably would induce flight activity,
accompanied by convection currents and a wind blowing out to sea.
A few miles offshore a strong wind from the south, averaging about
30 miles per hour at 1,500 to 2,000 feet, was also recorded by meteor-
ologists. The facts in this case are unusually complete, due in large
part to the existence in Africa of a well-developed organization for
compiling data related to migratory grasshoppers.

The occurrence of gregaria in Portugal is not new, Uvarov (1928,
p. 253) referring to its occasionally being found there and conclud-
ing that “it seems certain that in all cases the appearance of the
locusts has been due to strong swarms from Africa.”

There are numerous recorded cases of long flights by Schistocerca
gregaria. Scudder (1878) and Howard (1918) give separate in-
stances of its being taken on board ships in the Atlantic Ocean about
1,200 miles from the African mainland. Uvarov (1923, pp. 34-35)
reports specimens of gregaria from the islands of Cape Verde, Grand
Canary, and Ascension, and he says those occurrences can be explained
only as the result of flights from Africa. Swarms of gregaria usually
travel about 20 to 30 miles per day, and settle down at night (Waloff,
1946), so these unusually long movements are of interest in illustrat-
ing the potentialities of migratory grasshoppers when aided by espe-
cially favorable weather conditions.

FACTORS INFLUENCING THE MOVEMENT OF GRASSHOPPERS BY AIR

Some basic principles bearing on long flights of grasshoppers have
been treated in recent publications based on field work with the desert
locust in Africa and the Middle East. J. S. Kennedy (1951) has
analyzed the various factors involved in the behavior of swarms, and
has presented a theory explaining long-range migrations. The chief
factors are the condition of the grasshoppers, gregariousness, wind,
sun, and landscape. The influence of wind was stressed, since swarms
of gregaria usually fly into the wind by choice. If the latter is too
strong, however, as is often true when it blows about 9 miles per hour
or more, the grasshoppers are apt to turn aside. Then they most
often settle or turn about and fly with the wind. Rainey and Waloff
(1951) have given special attention to the effect of convection cur-
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY BRYA

rents on flying grasshoppers, and their observations leave no doubt
that uprising currents are highly significant in many long flights
at high altitudes. Flying grasshoppers which come under the in-
fluence of convection currents in some instances are liable to be swept
upward even to tens of thousands of feet and at velocities greater than
their falling speed with wings closed. Such currents are probably
responsible for various occurrences of grasshoppers on mountains
at altitudes far above their normal habitat. °

In recent years there has been a growing appreciation of the ex-
tent to which insects are carried by air currents. Many of the spe-
cies transported either fly weakly or not at all. This fact was well
shown by Glick (1939), who described collections made during a pe-
riod of several years in the Southern States by using ingenious traps
mounted on airplanes. I recently reviewed this and later evidence
which favors the occasional long-distance introduction of insects by
natural air movements (Gurney, 1949b).

Further observations on the reactions of Melanoplus rugglesi to
external factors may be expected to show how closely this species
agrees with Schistocerca gregaria in its fundamental behavior. Like-
wise, further collections from the layers of frozen grasshoppers in
the glacier may eventually disclose specimens of ruggles?. ‘These
would be of much historical importance, because they would show that
flights occurred long ago, though we now lack flight records earlier
than 1939. It is logical to suppose that, at irregular intervals for
centuries past, phase transformation of rugglesi has taken place, fol-
lowed by long flights. In fact, early reports of the United States
Entomological Commission (Riley et al., 1878, p. 106, App., p. 139;
1880, p. 7) record large numbers and conspicuous swarms of grass-
hoppers in the vicinity of Golconda and Winnemucca, Nev., in 1877
and 1878. This is the place where, about 1947, a migration of rugglesi
occurred, one in the series of recent annual migrations reaching from
Big Smoky Valley, Nev., to Guano Lake, Oreg., over a period of about
12 years. Circumstances suggest that the same grasshopper may
have been involved in 1877-78, rather than the Rocky Mountain grass-
hopper as then supposed. No preserved specimens are known, how-
ever, and consequently the identities cannot be established. Grass-
hopper Glacier may yet contribute much of interest to the early
as well as the current history of this Great Basin grasshopper.

OTHER LOCATIONS OF FROZEN GRASSHOPPERS

Although this account has been concerned mainly with Grasshopper
Glacier, there is no doubt that grasshoppers which have been trans-
ported partly by air currents have frozen into glacial ice in many
places. Bevan and Dorf (1932) mention a second “grasshopper
glacier” of the Beartooth Range, located at the head of the West Fork
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of Rock Creek. Its origin and conditions are probably comparable
to those of the main Grasshopper Glacier which we have discussed.
According to Kimball (1899), there are grasshoppers embedded in ice
on the slopes of Mount Dewey, located about 6 miles southeast of
Grasshopper Glacier. He said that they are perfectly preserved,
as the ice is stationary, instead of being badly broken as often occurs
in a glacier that is subject to movement.

In the central part of the Crazy Mountains of central Montana
there is a “grasshopper glacier” at the head of Cottonwood Creek.
During the warmer summers the grasshoppers are exposed in large
quantities. This glacier is labeled on a United States Forest Service
map of the Gallatin National Forest, published in 1947 and on a scale
of five miles per inch. A short distance southeast of this glacier
is another containing grasshoppers, which is not shown on the above
map. The latter drains into Pear Lake, which in turn goes into the
North Fork of Big Timber Creek. Both of the Crazy Mountains
“orasshopper glaciers” are mentioned by Dyson (1952).

Hayden (1873, p. 2) related the observations of two men in a survey
party who reached the summit of the Grand Teton in western Wyo-
ming. There were many flying grasshoppers (species not indicated),
especially in August and September, which became chilled and fell
on the snow and ice in vast numbers. There they melted myriads of
tiny holes in the ice, enabling the men to cling to the almost vertical
icy side of the peak. (Judged from present knowledge of Melanoplus
rugglesi, September would definitely be too late in the season for that
species to be on the wing.) Michelmore (1934) mentioned a dead
swarm of S. gregaria in the saddle of Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa.
Shipton (1934), an experienced mountain climber, reported hundreds
of grasshoppers, presumed to be gregaria, which he found embedded
in the bare-ice surface of a glacier at over 16,000 feet above sea level
on Mount Kenya in 1929.

This, then, is the story of Grasshopper Glacier, though many ques-
tions remain to be answered. It is certainly an unusual collecting
place for insects, and persistence and good luck probably will even-
tually reward collectors with several species of preserved grass-
hoppers as well as other insects. Because both Melanoplus rugglest
and UM. mexicanus mexicanus are important pest grasshoppers with
unusual behavior and intriguing past histories, any new evidence from
the glacier about them will be of interest to entomologists. Though
the glacier with its preserved grasshoppers is a curiosity of nature,
it is much more than that because of the basic facts of glacial age
and insect movement by air currents that will be more fully under-
stood as further information is gathered,
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 323

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

I am especially indebted for assistance in gathering information to
the following: D. G. Hall and Dr. J. R. Parker, of the United States
Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine; Dr. Irving Friedman,
of the United States Geological Survey; Dr. Arthur Bevan, of the IIli-
nois State Geological Survey; and Dr. William O. Field, Jr., of the
American Geographical Society. Others who have aided me materi-
ally are: Joseph S. Wade and Dr. Claude Wakeland, of the United
States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine; Drs. W. F.
Foshag and J. Brookes Knight, of the United States National Museum ;
Drs. Roland W. Brown, W. A. Cobban, William T. Pecora, John C.
Rabbitt, Louis L. Ray, and John B. Reeside, Jr., of the United States
Geological Survey; Dr. Harlow B. Mills, of the Illinois State Natural
History Survey; James A. G. Rehn, of the Academy of Natural Sci-
ences of Philadelphia; Richard W. Westwood, of the American Nature
Association; IF’. C. Curtiss, Supervisor of the Custer National Forest;
and Dr. Erling Dorf, of Princeton University. To the National Park
Service, Department of the Interior, I am indebted for access to an
unpublished manuscript and photographs by Dr. W. C. Alden
(retired), of the United States Geological Survey.

REFERENCES

ALDEN, WILLIAM C.

——. Grasshopper Glacier. Unpublished manuscript in files of National
Park Service, dated 1922. (Copy in files of U. S. National Museum.)
7 typed pages.

1930. Grasshoppers on ice. Nature Mag., vol. 15, pp. 379-382, illus.

1932. Physiography and glacial geology of eastern Montana and adjacent
areas. U. S. Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 174, pp. 1-133, illus. (See
especially p. 125.)

Barrp, P. D., et al.

1951. Report on the northern American glaciers. Assoc. Internat. Hydrol.

Scient., Assembl. Gen., Bruxelles, vol. 1, pp. 120-128.
BEVAN, ARTHUR, and Dorr, ERLING.

1932. Red Lodge to Beartooth Butte and return. In Yellowstone-Beartooth-
Big Horn Region, XVI Internat. Geol. Congr., Guidebook, Excursion
C-2, pp. 48-47, illus.

BRETT, CHARLES H.

1947. Interrelated effects of food, temperature, and humidity on the develop-
ment of the lesser migratory grasshopper, Melanoplus megvicanus
mexicanus (Saussure) (Orthoptera). Oklahoma Agr. Exp. Stat.
Techn. Bull. T-26, pp. 1-50, illus.

CAUDELL, A. N.
1902. Some insects from the summit of Pikes Peak, found on snow. Proc.
Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 5, pp. 74-82.
CLyprE, NorMAN.
1930. The Beartooth Mountains of Montana. Amer. Alpine Journ., vol. 1,
: pp. 174-181, illus.
DaRRAH, W. C.
1951. Powell of the Colorado. 426 pp., illus. Princeton, N. J.
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

DYSON, JAMES L.
1952. Glaciers of the American Rocky Mountains. Trien. Rep. 1950-52,
Committee on Glaciers, American Geophysical Union. Amer. Geogr.
Soc.
FAURE, J. C.
1933. The phases of the Rocky Mountain locust Melanoplus mecvicanus
(Saussure). Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 26, pp. 706-718, illus.
FLINT, RIcHARD F.
1947. Glacial geology and the Pleistocene epoch. 589 pp., illus. New York
and London.
GALLAWAY, Harry E.
1949. Melanoplus occidentalis occidentalis, a range species of grasshopper
in Nevada. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 41, pp. 925-927 (1948).
Guick, P. A.
1939. The distribution of insects, spiders, and mites in the air. U. 8. Dept.
Agr. Techn. Bull. 673, pp. 1-150, illus.
Gurney, A. B.
1949a. Melanoplus rugglesi, a migratory grasshopper from the Great Basin
of North America (Orthoptera, Acrididae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 51, pp. 267-272.
1949b. Distributional and synonymic notes on psocids common to Europe
and North America, with remarks on the distribution of Holarctic
insects (Corrodentia). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 39,
pp. 56-65.
HAYDEN, F. V.
1873. Sixth Report of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories,
pp. 1-844.
HEBARD, MorGaAN.
1917. Notes on Mexican melanopli. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia,
vol. 69, pp. 251-275, 5 figs.
Howarb, L. O.
1918. Schistocerca tartarica taken at sea. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington,
vol. 19, p. 77 (1917).
KENNEDY, J. S.
1951. The migration of the desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria Forsk.).
I, II. Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, ser. B, vol. 235, pp. 163-290,
illus.
KIMBALL, JAMES P.
1899. The granites of Carbon County, Montana: A division and glacier field
of the Snowy Range. Bull. Amer. Geogr. Soc., vol. 31, pp. 199-216,
illus.
Kup, J. L., Fectey, H. W., and Tryon, L. B.
1951. Lamont natural radiocarbon measurements, I. Science, vol, 114, pp.
565-568.
Ku tp, J. L., Tryon, L. E., and Freecry, H. W.
1952. Techniques of natural carbon-14 determination. Trans. Amer.
Geophys. Union, vol. 33, pp. 183-192, illus.
LovERING, T. S.
1929. The New World or Cooke City mining district, Park County, Mont.
U.S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 811A, pp. 1-87, illus.
MACAULEY, S. A.
1940. Two miles high on Grasshopper Glacier. Travel, vol. 73, No. 3, pp.
36-37, 40, illus.
GRASSHOPPER GLACIER OF MONTANA—GURNEY 325

MATTHES, FRANCOIS H.

1941. Rebirth of the glaciers of the Sierra Nevada during late post-
Pleistocene time. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 52, No. 12, p. 2030.

1942a. Report of Committee on Glaciers. Jn Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union,

1942, pt. 2, 23d Annual Meeting, pp. 374-392.

1942b. Glaciers. Jn Meinzer, Oscar E., et al., Hydrology, 712 pp., illus.

“Physics of the Harth” ser., vol. 9, New York and London.
MICHELMORE, A. P. G.

1934. Migration and the factors inducing it with regard to all phases, and
methods of their study, with special reference to the type of meteor-
ological maps likely to be of assistance. Proc. Third Internat.
Locust Conf., London, pp. 73-77.

RAIneY, R. C., and WaALorr, Z.

1951. Flying locusts and convection currents. Anti-locust Bull. 9, pp.
51-70.

RILEY, C. V., PAcKARD, A. S., and THOMAs, Crrus.

1878. First Annual Report of the United States Entomological Commission
for the year 1877. 477 pp., and App., 295 pp., illus. U.S. Geological
Survey.

1880. Second Annual Report of the United States Entomological Commission
for the year 1879. 322 pp., and App., 80 pp., illus. U.S. Geological
Survey.

Rivinus, MARIon W.
1952. Grasshopper Glacier. Frontiers, vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 106-108.
Roserts, FE. H. H., Jr.

1952. The carbon-14 method of age determination. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst. for 1951, pp. 835-350. (Revised, with some additions, from
“Carbon-14 Dates and Archeology,” Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union,
vol. 33, pp. 170-174.)

Rowre, Mary A.

1936. Our national parks. Book 2, pp. 1-329, illus. (See especially photo-

graph on pp. 254-255.) Chicago, New York, and Boston.
RUSSELL, [SRL C.

1885. Existing glaciers of the United States. In Powell, J. W., Fifth
Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., 1883-1884, pp. 303-355, illus.

1897. Glaciers of North America. 210 pp., illus. Boston and London.

Scupper, S. H.
1878. Locusts in mid-ocean. Psyche, vol. 2, pp. 124-125.
SHIPTON, E.
19384. Upon that mountain. 222 pp., illus. London.
SPEER, Ray P.
1934. Grasshoppers. Country Gentleman, vol. 104, No. 4, pp. 11, 54-55.
Uvarov, B. P.

1923. Notes on locusts of economic importance, with some new data on the
periodicity of locust invasion. Bull. Ent. Res., vol. 14, pp. 31-19, illus.

1928. Wocusts and grasshoppers, a handbook for their study and control.
302 pp., illus. Imperial Bureau of Entomology, London.

WALOF?F, Z.

1946. <A long range migration of the desert locust from southern Morocco
to Portugal, with an analysis of concurrent weather conditions.
Proc. Ent. Soc. London, ser. A, vol. 21, pp. 81-84, illus.

WaLtorr, Z., and RAIneEy, R. C.

1951. Field studies on factors affecting the displacements of desert locust

swarms in eastern Africa. Anti-locust Bull. 9, pp. 1-50.
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

NOTE ON THE CARBON-14 TESTS

On April 15, 1953, after the manuscript of the foregoing article
was completed, a report was received from Dr. W. F. Libby, Institute
of Nuclear Studies, University of Chicago, concerning an examination
by the carbon-14 method of grasshoppers collected in 1952 by Dr.
Irving Friedman in the deeper layers of the “old” glacier. Dr. Libby’s
conclusions are that the age may be most appropriately given as
45-+300 years and that the limits of error would be 45+600 years.
This indicates that these grasshoppers are quite modern, and it seems
definite that they are younger than 600 years. Unfortunately, the
samples examined have been rather small, and the standard errors
involved by this method are sufficient to make an age estimate of such
relatively recent material quite broad. The results appear to rule
out the possibility that the grasshopper deposits are extremely ancient,
and they add weight to the view that the Beartooth glaciers are of
relatively recent origin.—A. B. G.
Recent Advances in the Study and
Techniques of Anatomy

By Paut G. Roore
and
SAMUEL W. LESHER

Department of Anatomy, University of Kansas

Anatomy has the distinction of being one of the oldest sciences
known to man. We shall not attempt here to trace its history from
its beginning but will try to describe a few recent advances in the
various divisions of this broad study. Anatomy in its present posi-
tion, among the biological sciences, includes gross anatomy, embry-
ology, neurology, and cytology. These can be broken down still fur-
ther into smaller subdivisions. Early in biological history these four
divisions were distinctly isolated phases of anatomy. Today all bar-
riers among divisions of a scientific subject, and actually among fields
of science in general, are ceasing to exist, a result that is creating
a fusion of interests and a sharing of information.

GROSS ANATOMY

Gross anatomy had its early beginning among the Babylonians and
Egyptians and carried over into the early civilization of the Medi-
terranean area. The Greeks under Asklepios and Aristotle failed to
give us a complete picture of man’s anatomy. Through the Greek
Galen, anatomy advanced considerably, but it was not until 1533 that
the first complete book of anatomy was written and that was by the
Belgian Vesalius, with his “Epitome” and “De Humani Corpus
Fabrica.”

Descriptive gross anatomy has not advanced far since the time
of Vesalius. In certain aspects, it is a sad commentary that modern
textbooks of anatomy have followed the Vesalian pattern. There
are a few brave souls who are presenting gross anatomy from a dy-
namic and functional view, but by and large the teaching and study

1 Reprinted, with some revisions, by permission from Transactions of the Kansas Acad-

- emy of Science, vol. 54, No. 2, 1951.

236639—53 22 327

328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of this subject have remained in a static state. The problems of human
growth should break down, to a considerable extent, this situation.

The physical anthropologists are now studying gross morphology
of normal individuals and are comparing this with that found in
slightly abnormal individuals. This sort of information is giving us
a dynamic approach to our problem. The physical anthropologists
in recent years, under the leadership of Weigenrich, Broom, Dart,
and von Koningeswald, have been actively engaged in the study
of ancient man. There seems to be no particular agreement among
them as to man’s exact origin. More practical problems in physical
anthropology have been approached by Hooton at Harvard. Such
vital studies as size and shape of gas masks, the dimensions of cock-
pits in airplanes, and dimensions of all types of garments in the cloth-
ing industry are practical examples in which the physical anthro-
pologist has played a vital role. Probably the most exciting type of
study among this group of researchers is the work of Sheldon in
establishing what he calls the three morphogenic types. They are
the endomorph, the mesomorph, and the ectomorph. From his studies
these three groups of individuals have general types of behavior
and mental outlook upon life. According to his classification, the
man possessing endomorphy is a rather rotund, jolly individual who
has a rather large gut and enjoys eating; in fact, he greatly enjoys
life. The mesomorph, on the other hand, is a muscular heavy-bodied
individual. The mesomorphs are the men who do the work of the
world—sell life insurance and in general see that the wheels of society
move along. The ectomorph, on the other hand, is a rather lean,
brainy individual, less given to physical activity and has tendencies
toward intellectual activity. These are broad general terms, and
when a single individual is being studied charts are so prepared
that the subject shows the greater emphasis in one type, but with
characteristics in one or both of the others. Psychiatrists have made
use of this classification. These groupings aid them in a general way
to point toward their diagnoses.

Certain philosophers, especially the school led by Charles Morris
of Chicago, using Sheldon’s classification, have shown that persons
with these different tendencies seem to have, in general, attitudes to-
ward life with a certain physiological and psychological bent. For
example: Morris, who has given us 13 ways for patterns of living, has
presented statistical data showing that these three classifications of
Sheldon follow within certain paths and ways of life. It is interesting
to see how a physical anthropologist classifies individuals into three
categories, then how this classification is taken and used by a phi-
losopher who has turned scientist (Morris) to study ways by which
man lives. These two systems—one by a philosopher-scientist and
one by a physical anthropologist—dovetail very satisfactorily.
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 399
EMBRYOLOGY

A knowledge of embryology is fundamental to the understanding
of the adult organism. The foundation for the science of embryology
was laid by Aristotle through his original observations and theoretical
acumen. It was he who said that if one wishes to understand the
present structure, one must study its past evolutionary history. Karl
Ernst von Baer (1792-1876) is, in the modern sense, considered the
father of descriptive embryology. This early phase of embryology
was predominantly descriptive of the changes in form and structure
during development. However, since embryology is not a static
science but one that is alive and dynamic, it is not looked upon as a
science dealing with structure alone, but with form and function.
Embryology then, has paved the way to an understanding of how the
adult organism reached maturity.

In addition to morphology, embryology has made valuable contribu-
tions to our understanding of developmental behavior. In this realm
George E. Coghill (former head of the University of Kansas Depart-
ment of Anatomy) laid the basic groundwork. His study of the de-
velopment of the nervous system in the larval form of Ambystoma
tigrinum, a primitive land vertebrate belonging to the salamander
group, showed that behavior was not the welding together of individ-
ual reflex arcs as they appeared in the embryo, but that the organism
behaved as a whole and that discrete individual reflexes emerged out
of this total behavior pattern. This work began in 1913 and con-
tinued until Coghill’s death in 1941. His contributions were signifi-
cant in other fields than the straight morphological study of the de-
veloping embryo.

Psychologists and philosophers were eager and keen to grasp the
meaning of Coghill’s contribution to the study of behavior. He
showed that in the development of any organism the anatomical and
neurological structures came into being far in advance of their func-
tional capacity. Since Coghill’s study of the development of Ambys-
toma, similar research has been undertaken in higher organisms in-
cluding man. It is generally held by those working in the field that
Coghill’s conception of behavior holds true in all forms. Davenport
Hooker, of the University of Pittsburgh, working for the past 20 years
on embryonic and fetal development in man, has shown that the Cog-
hillian principles of development hold here also. The over-all picture
of these findings indicate clearly that all organisms develop in an in-
tegrating field, and during the course of this orderly development dis-
crete movements emerge which are always under the dominance of the
total organism.

The picture of man’s development from the single fertilized ovum
to the fully formed adult is gradually coming into focus. Important
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

research on this phase of the problem has been conducted at the De-
partment of Embryology of the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
D. C., led by the late George Streeter and followed by specialized
workers not only at the Institution but throughout leading universi-
ties of this country. By careful observation under rigidly controlled
techniques in cooperation with gynecologists and the obstetricians,
scientists studying the development of the human organism have
mapped man’s structural development with a surprising degree of
accuracy. The advances here in embryology have been tediously slow;
they depend naturally upon securing embryos at an exact known date
after fertilization. These developmental changes have been expressed
in three-dimensional models, representing young human embryos
ranging from a few hours to 21 days after fertilization.

EXPERIMENTAL EMBRYOLOGY

Despite the advancement in our knowledge of structural develop-
ment, it became apparent during the latter half of the nineteenth
century that the descriptive and comparative approach was quite in-
adequate for a better understanding of the developmental process.
Though descriptive embryology could show in detail how such struc-
tures as the brain and the ear develop, it failed to throw any light
on the causes that led to their formation and later differentiation.
Hence, the causal-analytical approach was applied to embryological
development, and experimental embryology came into being.

Wilhelm Roux (1850-1924), a German anatomist, became the fore-
most advocate of this new approach. Hans Spemann (Germany) and
Ross G. Harrison (United States of America) soon took over the
leadership in experimental embryology. Spemann in 1935 won the
Nobel prize for his discovery of the organizer.

The basic problem of the experimental embryologist is one that con-
cerns the concepts of determination. This new generation of biologists
continuously seeks the answer to such questions as: Which factors de-
termine the origin and further development of a given part of the egg
or embryo? What effect does external environment have upon devel-
opment? Actually, in such questions one is asking: Why and how do
cells differ in their ultimate fate? The mechanism of organ determin-
ation has been carefully analyzed by the experimental embryologist,
but it is doubtful if the whole answer will be found here. The classi-
cal example is the determination of the lens by the eye vesicle. It was
found, principally by the Spemann school, that the optic vesicle, an
outgrowth of the brain, comes into contact with the overlying head
epidermis and stimulates the latter to form a lens vesicle. When the
optic vesicle is removed, no lens is formed. The induction of a lens
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 331

is not an isolated case, for it has been found that the entire nervous
system of vertebrates is called forth by an inductive act. The recent
work of J. Holtfreter (Rochester, Minn., a student of Spemann) and
J. Needham (Cambridge, England) indicates that the inductive proc-
ess is mediated by a chemical substance. There is considerable dis-
agreement as to its exact composition in which speculation concerning
its nature ranges from certain proteins, fatty acids, and nucleic acids
to Needham’s steroids.

The discovery of the organizer by Spemann and Hilde Mangold
(1924) was of extreme importance to the experimental embryologist.
It was found that when the upper lip of the blastopore, during the
process of involution, was cut out and transplanted to the flank of
another gastrula it proceeded with its invaginating movements.
When this transplanted material reached the inside of the gastrula it
underwent differentiation into a complete or partialembryo. This in-
ductive force in itself is not unusual, but the most remarkable feature
was that all the structures so originated were combined to form a
whole, well-integrated, secondary embryo on the host. This organizer

action is essentially and fundamentally a combination of self-differ-
entiation and of complex induction.

These studies on the nature of the organizer and the inductors led
quite naturally to the origination of a new type of experimental em-
bryology, one which Needham calls “chemical embryology,” but be-
cause of the broadness of its scope it could more appropriately be called
“physiological embryology.” At first the investigations were purely
chemical and of an analytical nature, e. g., the chemical analysis of
whole eggs. Recently attention has been centered on the enzyme sys-
tems as they become active during the process of development. It is
here that the concepts of the chemist, the cytologist, the geneticist, and
the embryologist merge. Physiological embryology is the basic or
unifying branch of the whole field of embryology.

CYTOLOGY

Cytology deals with the structure of cells. To the biologist the
cell is what an atom is to the chemist and physicist, i. e., it is a funda-
mental morphological and physiological unit in the structure of living
organisms. The development of this biological discipline has for the
most part coincided with the development of the compound micro-
scope. The earlier nineteenth-century cytologists were, however, con-
cerned almost entirely with descriptive or morphological cytology.
The role that cytology was destined to play in cell physiology did not
begin to unfold until the establishment by the Morgan School at Co-
lumbia University of the chromosome theory of inheritance. This
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

approach resulted in the later utilization of specific knowledge regard-
ing a chemical and physical phenomenon for the identification and
localization of the cellular components.

In spite of our increased knowledge of the cell, the primary prob-
lems have changed only in degree, i. e., from morphological to physio-
logical. We are still interested in the structure of protoplasm and
in its submicroscopic or molecular structure and not as to whether it
appears reticular, fibrillar, or granular in nature. The cytologist has
literally joined hands with the chemists, the physiologists, and the
physicists in an attempt to unravel the intricate workings of the cell
in all the complex phases of its life—development, maintenance, and
reproduction. We are not, however, concerned with these phases per
se but instead with the mechanism of cell function during these phases.

Cell function can be understood only through a knowledge of the
intracellular components, that is, the chemical components which make
up the cell. At the chemical level, enzymes dominate the scene.
Enzymes constitute more than half of the solid matter in most cells.
The number of different enzymes and their individual action and re-
quirements may be astronomical in number. There is a rapidly grow-
ing conviction that cells differ only to the extent that their enzyme
components differ. Waddington (1948) characterizes development
as essentially a sequence of chemical changes that have secondary
physical effects expressed in the morphology of the embryo. Beadle,
in his work on Neurospora, postulates a one-gene, one-enzyme relation-
ship. One wonders if the gene-enzyme relationship is that direct or
that simple. It has been suggested, and there is strong support for
the hypothesis, that the nuclear gene expressed itself by means of a
cytoplasmic unit, the so-called plasma gene. No matter how the gene
makes itself felt, the final action is an enzymatic one. Potter (1950)
says, “that when a particular group of enzymes is organized in one
way, a liver cell results; with a slightly different collection of enzymes
appropriately organized, a kidney cell results; and with another as-
sortment of enzymes, a cancer cell results.” If function of either the
normal cell in all its phases or the abnormal cancer cell is to be under-
stood, the enzyme pattern which characterizes it must be determined.

Cytology has played and is continuing to play an important role
in determining these enzyme patterns. This development results in
a new cytology, one which overlaps into the now-related fields of
genetics, morphogenesis, biochemistry, cellular physiology, and en-
zymology. It is, of course, a cytology based on entirely new tech-
niques, i. e., new to the biologist. Many of these techniques were ac-
tually borrowed as developed by the chemist and the physicist, while
others have been modified to fit the needs of the biologist. These new
procedures have made it possible to identify, localize, and in some
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 333

cases to measure quantitatively chemical substances within the cell
itself without radically changing it. It is this phase of cytology with
which we shall now deal.

CYTOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL TECHNIQUES

Enzymes, proteins, nucleic acids.—Northrup (1949) in his discus-
sion on “Enzymes and the Synthesis of Proteins,” emphasizes the close
relationship which exists between enzymes, proteins, and viruses.
Nucleic acids obviously fit into the same picture whether one con-
siders them from the standpoint of a conjugated protein, i. e., the
nucleoproteins, or as enzymes. It has been suggested that the nucleic
acids may, acting as coenzymes, funnel energy into metabolic actions.

Chemically, cellular components vary, depending upon the func-
tion of the cell and the physiological condition of the main tissue mass
of which the cells are a part. Despite this chemical variability, the
nucleic acids are always present as one of the fundamental compo-
nents. It is now well established that two types of nucleic acids
exist, ribonucleic acid and desoxyribonucleic acid. The two are to
be found in both plant and animal cells. Ribonucleic acid is con-
centrated for the most part in the cytoplasm and the nucleolus, desoxy-
ribonucleic acid in the chromosomes. The organization and perfec-
tion of histochemical and cytochemical methods for the detection and
measurement of nucleic acids at a microscopic level, have stimulated
an intensely renewed interest in the nucleoproteins and their pros-
thetic groups, the nucleic acids.

Recent investigations have shown that nucleic acids are involved in
many vital cell functions. Desoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) condenses
on the chromosomes during division, at which time it becomes ap-
parent that a new gene chain has been or is being synthesized. There
is, furthermore, an apparent high concentration of ribonucleic acid
(RNA) in those tissues active in protein synthesis (secretory glands,
embryos, tumors, etc.). Such self-duplicating bodies as viruses and
plasmagenes, both of which may be closely related to genes, have
proved to be nucleoprotein in nature. In Muller’s (1950) opinion the
genetic material itself, that is the gene, is a nucleoprotein, but he as-
sumes that the difference between genes, like the specificity between
enzymes, lies chiefly in the protein and not in the nucleic acid.

The most impressive technique devised for the identification, local-
ization, and possible measurement of the two nucleic acids is that
by Casperson (1936), the ultraviolet absorption method. Casperson
(1950) describes in detail the apparatus and procedures in his new
book, “Cell Growth and Cell Function.” Between 2500 and 3000 A.
the absorption of the cell is usually dominated by that of the nucleo-
. tides and proteins. This broad band can be further broken down to
334 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

narrower limits: (1) at 2600 A. absorption of the pyrimidine or purine
ring of the two nucleic acids occurs; (2) at 2800 A. there is found the
maxima in absorption of the aromatic amino acids.

Ultraviolet methods, when properly controlled, give a measure of
the total nucleic acids, but the two main types (RNA and DNA) can
be distinguished only by removing one or the other through treatment
with a specific nuclease. There has been considerable controversy
about the ultraviolet absorption of living cells; e. g., it has been found
that the amount of absorption increases with the length of exposure.
Commoner and Lipkin (1949) raised the question as to the degree of
orientation of the nucleic-acid molecule. If the molecules are ori-
ented, is the orientation sufficient to invalidate the quantitative data
so obtained? A second probable source of error lies in the danger
of light scattering, which Casperson (1947) has discussed in detail.
In view of the above factors one should accept with caution any
theories based on their quantitative value. This conclusion does not
mean that ultraviolet spectroscopy is without value, since qualita-
tively the information is invaluable.

Chemically the nucleic acids can be identified and localized by:
(1) the Feulgen reaction, (2) basic staining, and (3) Brachet’s ribo-
nuclease technique.

Feulgen and Rossenbeck (1924) adapted the Schiffs-base reaction to
cytology for the visual identification of desoxyribose nucleic acid.
Under proper controls this procedure is qualitatively specific, though
there is little to support its quantitative value. The extensive litera-
ture on the subject has been reviewed by Stowell (1945) and Lumb
(1950). The latter author in the same paper critically analyzed all
the more commonly used nucleic-acid techniques.

Of equal importance are the methods for the detection and localiza-
tion within the cell of various types of enzymes. Most techniques
of this sort involve incubation of the cellular material in a suitable
substrate solution, with the production at the site of enzymatic activity
of a colored substance or of a substance which can be converted into a
colored compound. There are tests of this nature for the localization
of cytochrome oxidase, peroxidase, amino oxidase, lipases, proteases,
glucoronidase, phosphorylase, alkaline and acid phosphatase, and
others. None of these techniques, with the exception of alkaline
phosphatase has been subjected to a critical analysis. Danielli (1946)
established the validity of the alkaline-phosphatase technique when
properly controlled. A detailed account of the possible significance of
the alkaline-phosphatase enzyme to nucleic acid and protein metab-
olism and the process of calcification is to be found in J. R. G. Brad-
field’s recent review article, “The Localization of Enzymes in Cells”
(1950). For procedures, consult Glick’s (1949) book, “Techniques
of Histo- and Cyto-chemistry.”
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 335

Centrifugation.—The possibility that various enzymes may be bound
to or absorbed on mitochondria motivated the development of the
technique of the separation of cellular components by centrifugation.
The earliest important separation was achieved by Bensley and Hoerr
(1934). In their paper they describe the process of isolating large
granules which proved to be mitochondria. Subsequent investiga-
tors (Claude, Dounce, Hogeboom, Lazarow, Mirsky, Moog, Palade,
Pollister, and others) perfected the differential centrifugation tech-
nique and isolated in addition to mitochondria the much smaller mi-
crosomes, glycogen particles, whole nuclei, and chromosomes. Tests
for enzyme activity confirmed the original postulation that mitochon-
dria are the most important site of intracellular enzymes. If one
recognizes the obvious limitation of this technique which destroys the
intracellular relationships the results obtained can be extremely valu-
able in the identification of enzyme systems.

Microchemical analysis of biological materials—Lowry and Bessey
(1946), through the use of a specially designed curvette and the
preparation of materials at low temperatures (—20° C.), adapted the
Beckman spectrophotometer for the measurement of the chemical
components of extremely minute sections of cellular material. They
were able to obtain quantitative measurements on volumes as low as
25 emm. (0.025 ml.). With their adaptations, for example, they
have measured ascorbic acid in 0.01 ml. of serum, vitamin A and caro-
tene in 0.035 to 0.06 ml. of serum, and ascorbic acid in the blood
cells and platelets of 0.1 ml. of blood. With this technique it is con-
ceivably possible to make quantitative analyses of whole nuclei
cleaved from frozen tissues.

Microdissection.—One of the outstanding techniques of recent years
has been that of microdissection. There are four or five different
types of microdissecting instruments, but the one used by Chambers
probably leads the field. In this approach to the living cell, small
needles or knives are made by drawing out glass tubes or glass rods in-
to very fine points and edges. These tubes are then placed in holders
which can be maneuvered most gently and accurately within ranges of
1 or 2 microns or fractions thereof; nuclei of cells can be removed;
chromosomes can be pulled out; myofibrilla and neurofibrilla can be
teased and pulled out of their respective fibers by this ingenious
method. By this application scientists are agreed now that these struc-
tures can no longer be considered artifacts, but actual organoids of
the living cell.

Another advantage of the microdissecting techniques is that small
quantities of material can be injected into a living cell, thus enabling
the student to study experimentally the functions of various proto-

. plasmic constituents.
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The quartz-rod transilluminator—One of the most fascinating
techniques that has been devised in the last few years is that of the
quartz-rod-transilluminator method of Dr. Melvin H. Knisely, head
of the Department of Anatomy, University of South Carolina. This
technique permits light to be brought to living tissues in which heat is
not transmitted. Only the heat of irradiation is present, and this can
be eliminated or drawn off by the continuous flow of normal physio-
logical salt solution over the tissue being observed. Three outstanding
discoveries in recent years have been made by the use of this tech-
nique. In 1935, Knisely discovered that the spleen had a closed circu-
lation and had the power of regulating the amount of formed elements
of the blood held within one of the individual units of the spleen,
namely, the sinusoid. This observation was a rather striking dis-
covery. Knisely could actually see the sphincter activity of an indi-
vidual sinusoid after it began to constrict and hold back the blood cells
while at the same time allowing the plasma to escape through the lat-
ticelike wall of the individual sinusoid. In studying the liver Knisely
also showed that there was a sphincterlike activity at the point just
before the sinusoid enters the central vein. In both the spleen and
liver he showed that there was a rhythmiclike activity of filling and
emptying the individual sinusoid. He also established the rate of red
cell destruction by the liver in its selective phagocytic function. Here
he showed that as a red cell became old or injured in some way, a lin-
ing cell of the liver sinusoid instantaneously engulfed the red cell.
This effect was not only observed and reported by Knisely, but his
color photography is superb in showing the above activity. Knisely’s
discovery of sludged blood was a unique revelation to the medical pro-
fession. Using the quartz-rod-transilluminator method, he showed
that under pathological and disturbed conditions in all animals studied,
red cells of the blood stream were agglutinated within the vessels them-
selves. Even in minor injuries, especially in surgical shock, sludging
became excessive. In more than 600 human patients observed by the
quartz-rod-transilluminator method in the sclera of the eye, Knisely
has observed a sludging of blood. This sludging is observed in vary-
ing degrees of intensity from the result of a minor cold in which there
is very little sludging to extreme cases of malaria where excessive
amounts of sludging occurs. Knisely has concluded from his studies
that all human ills produce this phenomenon.

The next big step that will follow undoubtedly will be a discovery
of some method of “unsludging” the blood. Intensive studies in
several laboratories are now under way to understand more clearly
the factors involved in producing the sludge in the first place. The
study of sludging is being observed on experimental animals with
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 337

cancer of various origins and other diseases. Human patients, in a
few centers of America, are also being studied intensively.

PHASE MICROSCOPY

Phase microscopy is used to observe materials that are too trans-
parent for ordinary bright-field study. Specimens usually include
such objects as living organisms, unstained tissue, slightly pigmented
or faded preparations, emulsions, and plastics.

The American Optical Co. offers the following brief explanation
of the theory of phase microscopy :

In the phase microscope a diffraction plate or coating is added within the
objective and an annular diaphragm below the condenser of the bright-field
microscope, thereby converting slight and invisible alterations of light passing
through the specimen into images which may be seen and photographed. The
annulus in the condenser controls the illumination on the diffraction plate or
coating, where the light from the specimen and its surround is selectively
modified so that it will recombine into an image of adequate visibility. The
range of phase objectives makes possible several degrees of contrast, with or
without reversing of bright and dark details, to provide best visibility, to empha-
size detail, and to insure that no detail is missed in the microscopic examination
of such materials. All objectives have incorporated into them the latest develop-
ments in this relatively new field.

THE ELECTRON MICROSCOPE

The electron microscope has so far only limited application in
biology. This limitation is brought about by the fact that the material
studied has to be in very highly desiccated condition and the thin-
ness of the material is of an extremely small order. One cannot
observe material that is 2 or 3 microns in thickness. It has to be 0.2
or 0.3 » in thickness in order that the electron microscope can bring
out in detail structures that could not otherwise be seen. Its greatest
use eventually, and probably even now, is that it can deal with large
protein molecules within certain fibrillae of protoplasmic strands.
However, it may be that new inventions or new techniques in electron
microscopy will render this instrument more useful to biology. The
instrument does not use ordinary light source, but depends upon
X-rays to bring out the objects observed. Instead of glass or quartz
lenses, the lenses of the electron microscope are large electromagnets
which may constrict or diffuse the X-rays as an ordinary microscope
does light.

TISSUE CULTURE

Tissue culture has given us considerable advantage in studying
living systems. Under this technique, cells or tissues may be removed
from the living body and kept alive in a medium adequately supplied
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

by necessary nutrient requirements. Thus one is enabled to experl-
ment indefinitely upon various tissues and cells. An outstanding
example of a contribution by this technique was that made by Dr. Ross
Harrison, of Yale. He was able to show, for example, that all the
cells of a developing nervous system were independent of one another
and did not unite in a common syncytium. This tissue technique has
many ramifications under varying experimental approaches.

ISOTOPES

The most recent types of technique in microscopic anatomy are
those concerning tracer isotopes and autoradiographic procedures.
The fondest hopes and dreams of scientists have been to determine
accurately the presence of any particular substance at a given time
within certain tissues of plants and animals. Not only have they been
used to determine accurately the presence of such substance, but
also as a method showing how the plant or animal organism metabo-
lizes these materials. By radioactive isotopes, one can, either by the
geiger-counter method or autoradiographic techniques, determine
the presence and amount of any substance that is either naturally auto-
radioactive or artificially made so. One of the most common uses
of radioactive isotopes in this particular field has been to determine
the uptake of iodine by the thyroid gland. By giving radioactive
iodine to an individual, the amount of iodine absorbed in the gland
can be determined. Under experimental and normal conditions, one
can determine to a certain extent the manner by which the thyroid
gland utilizes iodine. These new techniques are used not only in
tracer work but also in therapy. For example, the administration
of radioactive iodine to a patient suffering from cancer of the thyroid
gland will alleviate, and, in certain instances, cure the cancer.
One of the most striking examples of this technique is the study in
which the body metabolizes radium. It has been known for many
years that radium, strontium, and barium have a great affinity for
bone. Investigators would like to establish positively whether radium
behaves as calcium does.

In our own laboratories, for example, Dr. Frank Hoecker and the
senior author of this paper have shown that radium is not distributed
evenly or uniformly throughout the bone either in the rat or in man.
We have devised techniques where we can, by autoradiographic
methods, determine accurately in space, not only the presence of
radium but the amount found in bone after its administration into
the body. Our technique is one in which we determine photographi-
cally by our autoradiographs the presence of radium in any particular
spot by superimposing the photomicrogram of the bone and the
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 339

autoradiogram of the photomicrogram of the alpha particle tracks.
We feel that this technique is probably the most accurate available.

NEUROLOGY

Neurology is too broad a subject, covering both the basic science
and clinical fields, to be treated here. In the study of neurology the
mathematician, the engineer, the pathologist, and the physiologist
have opened a new field, namely, cybernetics, which is the study of
communication in the animal and the machine.

REFERENCES
AstTpury, D. I.
1945. The forms of biological molecules. In “Essays on Growth and Form,”
p. 309. Oxford.
BALpDwWI1, E.
1947. Dynamic aspects of biochemistry. Cambridge Univ. Press.
BENSLEY, R. R., and Horr, N. L.
1934. The preparation and properties of mitochondria. Anat. Rec., vol.
60, p. 449.
Bourne, G. H.
1942. Cytology and cell physiology. Oxford.
1943. The distribution of alkaline phosphatase in various tissues. Quart.
Journ, Exp. Physiol., vol. 32, p. 1.
BRACHET, J.
1933. Recherches sur la synthése de l’acide thymonucleique pendant le
development de l’oeuf d’oursin. Arch. Biol., vol. 44, p. 519.
1945. Embryologie chimique. 2d ed. Liége.
1947. Nucleic acids in the cell and the embryo. Symp. Soe. Exp. Biol.,
vol. 1, p. 207.
BRADFIELD, J. R. G.
1950. The localization of enzymes in cells. Biol. Rev., vol. 25, p. 113.
Cain, A. J.
1950. The histochemistry of lipoids in animals. Biol. Rev., vol. 25, p. 738.
CASPERSON, T.
1936. Uber den chemischen Aufbau der Strukturen des Zellkernes. Skand.
Arch. Physiol. Suppl. No. 8 (to vol. 73).
1947. The relation between nucleic acid and protein synthesis. Symp. Soc.
Exp. Biol., vol. 1, p. 127.
1950. Cell growth and cell function. New York.
CLAUDE, A.
1943. Distribution of nucleic acids in the cell and the morphological con-
stitution of protoplasm. Biol. Symp., vol. 10, p. 111.
COGHILL, GEORGE E.
1929. Anatomy and the problem of behavior. Cambridge Univ. Press.
COMMONER, B.
1949. On the interpretation of the absorption of ultraviolet light by cellu-
lar nucleic acids. Science, vol. 110, p. 31.
CoMMONER, B., and LirxtIn, D.
1949. The application of the Beer-Lambert Law to optically anisotropic
systems. Science, vol. 110, p. 41.
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

DANIELLI, J. F.

1946. A critical study of the techniques for determining the cytological
position of alkaline phosphatase. Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 228 DAO:

1947. A study of techniques for the cytochemical demonstration of nucleic
acids and some components of proteins. Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol.,
vol. 1, p. 101.

Dounce, A. L.

1943. Enzyme studies on isolated cell nuclei of rat liver. Journ. Biol.

Chem., vol. 147, p. 685.
FEULGEN, R., and ROSSENBECK, H.

1924. Mikroskopisch-chemischer Nachweis einer Nucleinsiure und die
darauf beruhende elektive Farbung vob Zellkernen in mikros-
kopischen Priiparaten. Zeitschr. Phys. Chem., vol. 135, pp. 203-248.

FRbY-WYSSLING, A.
1948. Submicroscopic morphology of protoplasm and its derivatives. New
York.
GLick, D.
1949. Techniques of histo- and cyto-chemistry. New York.
HAMBURGER, VIKTOR.
1947. Experimental embryology. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 8, p. 973.
HARRISON, Ross.
1933. Some difficulties of the determination-problem. Amer. Nat., vol. 67,
p. 306.
HAvROWITZ, FELIX.
1950. Chemistry and biology of proteins. New York Academic Press, Inc.
HocEsoom, G. H., SCHNEIDER, W. C., and DELLADE, G. EH.

1948. Isolation of intact mitochondria from rat liver. Journ. Biol. Chem.

vol. 172, p. 619.
HOLTFRETER, J.

1948. Concepts on the mechanism of embryonic induction and their rela-
tion to parthogenesis and malignancy. Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol.,
yO PS Fon alr(,

Hooker, DAVENPORT.

1944. Origin of overt behavior. Univ. Michigan Press.
Hoorin, EARNEST ALBERT.

1947. Up from the ape. New York.
HybDEN, H.

1947. The nucleoprotein in virus reproduction. Cold Spring Harbor Symp.
Quant. Biol., vol. 12, p. 104.

IXNISELY, MELVIN.

1936. Spleen studies. I. Microscopic observations of the circulatory
system of the living unstimulated mammalian spleens. Anat. Rec.,
vol. 65, pp. 23-50.

LAzARow, A.
1943. The chemical structure of cytoplasm ... Biol. Symp., vol. 10, p. 9.
LEA, D. E.
1947. Actions of radiations on living cells. Cambridge.
LEHMAN, F. E.
1945. Hinfiihrung in die physiologische Embryologie.
Lison, L.
1936. Histochimie animale. Paris.
TECHNIQUES OF ANATOMY—ROOFE AND LESHER 341

Lowry, Oliver H., and Brssry, OTro A.
1946. The adaptation of the Beckman spectrophotometer to measurements
on minute quantities of biological materials. Journ. Biol. Chem.,
vol. 163, pp. 683-639.
LuMs, PTHEL SUE.
1950. Cytochemical reactions in nucleic acids. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 25,
p. 278.
Mirsky, A. E., and Ris, H.
1947. The chemical composition of isolated chromosome. Journ. Gen.
Physiol., vol. 31, p. 1.
1949. Variable and constant components of chromosomes. Nature, vol. 163,
p. 666.
Moog, F.
1944, Localizations of alkaline and acid phosphatases in the early embryo-
genesis of the chick. Biol. Bull., Woods Hole, vol. 86, p. 51.
1946. The physiological significance of the phosphomonoesterases. Biol.
Rey., vol. 21, p. 41.
Morris, CHARLES.
1942. Paths of life. New York.
MUuLtier, H. J.
1950. Some present problems in the genetic effects of radiation. Journ.
Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 35, suppl. 1, pp. 9-70.
NEEDHAM, J.
1943. Biochemistry and morphogenesis. Cambridge.
NorrTHropP, JOHN H.
1949. Enzymes and the synthesis of proteins, the chemistry and physiology
of growth. Vol. 1. Princeton Univ. Press.
PAINTER, THEOPHYLUS S.
1944. A cytologist looks forward. Texas Rep. Biol. and Med., vol. 2, p. 206.
PALADE, G. E., and CLAUDE, ALBERT,
1949. The nature of the Golgi apparatus. II. Identification of the Golgi
apparatus with a complex of myelin figures. Journ. Morph., vol.
85, pp. 71-112.
POLLISTER, A. W., and Ris, HANS.
1947. Nucleoprotein determination in cytological preparations. Cold Spring
Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol., vol. 12, p. 147.
PoTTerR, VAN R.
1950. Enzymes, growth and cancer. Springfield.
Ris, HAnNs.
1947. The composition of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. Cold
Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol., vol. 12, p. 158.
Ris, Hans, and Mirsky, A. EB.
1949. The state of the chromosomes in the interphase nucleus. Journ, Gen.
Physiol., vol. 32, p. 489.
Rogertis, E. D., NOWINSKI, W. W., and Sarz, FRANCISCO A.
1948. General cytology. New York.
Roux, W.
1905. Die Entwicklungsmedhanik ein neuer Zweig der biologischen Wissen-
schaft. Vortr. und Aufs. tiber Entw. Mech. Organismen, No. 1.
SCHNEIDER, W. C., CLAUDE, A., and HoGesoom, G. H.
1948. The distribution of cytochrome ¢c and succinoxidase activity in rat
liver fractions. Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 172, p. 451.
342 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

SHELDON, WILLIAM H.
1940. The varieties of human physique. New York.
SPEMANN, HANS.
1938. Embryonic development and induction. Yale Univ. Press.
SPEMANN, H., and MANGOLD, H.
1924. Uber Induktion von Embryonalanlagen durch Implantation art-
fremder Organisatoren. Arch. Mikr. Anat., vol. 100, pp. 599-638.
SPIEGELMAN, S.
1948. Differentiation as the controlled production of unique enzymatic
patterns. Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol., vol. 2, p. 286.
STOWELL, R. E.
1945. Feulgen reaction for thymonucleic acid. Stain Techn., vol. 20, p. 45.
STREETER, GEORGE.
1926. The “Miller” ovum. The youngest normal human embyro thus far
known. Contr. Embryol., vol. 18, No. 92. Carnegie Inst. Wash-
ington Publ. 363.
WabpINGTON, C. H.
1948. The genetic control of development. Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol., vol. 2,
p. 145.
WEIDENRICH, F.
1946. Apes. In Apes, giants and man. Univ. Chicago Press.

be a a in in in ie in in i i i in i i in i nO On i Oe

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request address to the Division of Publications, Smith-
sonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.
Livestock Parasitology in the United States’

By BENJAMIN SCHWARTZ
Bureau of Animal Industry, U. S. Department of Agriculture

[With 1 plate]

AurHouceH the Act of the Congress of the United States establish-
ing the Department of Agriculture became effective in 1862, 21 years
elapsed before animal-disease investigations on a sustained basis were
undertaken by the Department. In 1883 a Veterinary Division was
established in the Department of Agriculture. In the next year the
Congress established the Bureau of Animal Industry in the place
of the Veterinary Division, and Daniel E. Salmon, a capable young
veterinarian who had made investigations for the Department of
Agriculture and later headed its Veterinary Division, became the
Chief of the new Bureau. The Bureau of Animal Industry, besides
being given other responsibilities, was charged with the duty “to
provide means for the suppression and extirpation of contagious
pleuropneumonia and other contagious diseases among domestic
animals.”

Even before the Bureau came into existence, the livestock and meat
industries of the United States had already developed to such an ex-
tent that they had sizable surpluses for export. Beef and pork, as
well as live animals, had been exported for a number of years to vari-
ous European countries. Unfortunately, several countries had placed
restrictions against these importations on account of disease which
might be conveyed to their native stock, or because of human health
hazard in consuming meat from diseased animals. Aside from the
export restrictions, American stockmen faced serious difficulties from
the diseases to which their stock at home was subject. Among these
diseases were some of parasitic origin, the nature of which either was
not understood, or for which effective control measures had not yet
been developed or put into general use.

1 Address of the President, American Society of Parasitologists, November 16, 1951,
Chicago, Ill. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of Parasitology, vol. 38, No. 2,
April 1952.

236639—53——_23 343
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The disease which was then known as murrain, or splenic fever, or
Texas fever, caused great consternation among livestock producers,
especially in the northern States, who saw their animals stricken and
die when they followed the trails of apparently healthy cattle that
had been driven northward from Texas and elsewhere in the South.
So great was the fear among northern cattle owners of the danger to
their herds from southern cattle that rigorous action was taken, some-
times accompanied by threats of violence, to prevent cattle from Texas
from being driven over the trails which led to the northern markets.
Another parasitic disease, known as sheep scabies, was ravishing flocks
on the western ranges. On account of the highly contagious nature
of this skin disease, the importation of sheep from the United States
to other countries was barred, and in this country the disease was
spreading as a result of the uncontrolled movement of livestock.
Cattle scabies, too, lurked in the background as a disease requiring
serious attention, if the increasing herds were to be maintained on a
high level of efficiency. The internal parasites of the country’s live-
stock were practically unknown at the time the Bureau of Animal
Industry was established. However, one parasite of swine, 7'’rchznella
spiralis, was well known in this country, and abroad it was regarded
as exceedingly dangerous on account of its potential harmful effects
on human beings. By 1881 several countries in Europe had already
placed an embargo on pork from this country, and the Department
of State instituted, therefore, an inquiry to ascertain the causes
that might render this meat dangerous to human health.

These, then, were the principal known problems in parasitology
in relation to an expanding livestock production that confronted the
Bureau of Animal Industry in 1884, when Salmon and his few assist-
ants began “to provide the means for the suppression and extirpa-
tion” of disease of farm animals. The manner in which the Bureau
fulfilled its responsibilities, the investigational work that had to be
carried out before suppression and extirpation could be undertaken,
the means adopted to carry out the programs, and the success achieved,
constitute an important and fascinating chapter in the history of
livestock hygiene and disease prevention. Only those parts of the
chapter which relate to parasites and parasitic diseases can be re-
viewed in the course of this address, and only by a few outstanding
examples.

TICK FEVER

Although it is uncertain when the disease now known as tick fever,
or bovine piroplasmosis, was first introduced into the American col-
onies, it is probable that it came in with importations of cattle from
the Spanish West Indies and Mexico, perhaps sometime in the seven-
teenth century. By the end of the eighteenth century the disease was
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ 345

apparently well entrenched in the United States, because by 1795 the
State legislature of North Carolina prohibited by law the driving of
any cattle from the low coastal areas to the highland parts of that
State between the first day of April and the first day of November.
In 1814 Virginia barred cattle from certain parts of South Carolina,
and in 1836 North Carolina barred cattle from South Carolina and
Georgia, between the dates aforementioned. Despite these and simi-
lar restrictions, tick fever continued to spread with the growth of
the livestock industry and the development of transportation facili-
ties and markets. Gradually it spread over the entire South, and often
invaded different sections of the North. In 1867 the Kansas Legisla-
ture appealed to Congress to authorize the Department of Agricul-
ture to investigate Texas fever. By 1877 the disease had caused
much harm throughout the country and continued to spread, despite
the energetic methods that were being adopted to stem its tide. When
the overland movement of cattle proved difficult or illegal, animals
were moved by boat and landed in northern markets, with the result
that their contact with northern cattle decimated prize herds that
were being established after the Civil War.

An investigation was made in 1868, partly at the instigation of
stockmen and partly under Federal auspices, by Prof. John Gamgee,
a British expert on animal diseases, assisted by two medical officers of
the United States Army and others. Among the conclusions reached
were that cattle “become affected in consequence of the nature of the
soil and vegetation on which they are fed, and the water which they
drink.” With regard to the popular idea then prevalent that ticks had
something to do with the disease, Gamgee stated “that there is not the
slightest foundation for the view that ticks disseminate the disease.”
In another place Gamgee stated, “The tick theory has acquired renown
during the past summer but little thought should have satisfied any-
one of the absurdity of the idea.” Salmon, who in 1879 investigated
tick fever under a commission from the Department of Agriculture,
reported in 1880 as follows: “The tick theory scarcely explains a single
one of the many peculiar phenomena of the disease,” a conclusion
which was generally shared at the time by those best informed on
animal diseaes.

Following the organization of the Bureau of Animal Industry in
1884, and the opening at the same time of an experiment station on the
outskirts of Washington, D. C., as part of that Bureau, an opportunity
was afforded to the handful of young researchers whom Salmon had
collected, to investigate the most pressing livestock maladies that were
exacting a severe toll from the resources of farmers and stockmen.
In 1888 studies on tick fever were already in progress. In that year
Theobald Smith, the leading investigator of Salmon’s small coterie of
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

scientists, observed the destruction of the red blood corpuscles of cattle
sick with tick fever. In the following year three important discoveries
were made in the Bureau of Animal Industry with reference to ticks
and tick fever: (1) Smith observed a parasite in the red blood cells of
the affected animals (pl. 1, fig. 1) and, on the basis of this discovery,
explained the breakdown of the erythrocytes and the various lesions
he observed while conducting postmortem examinations of cattle that
had succumbed to the disease. (2) While Smith was carrying out
these studies, Kilbourne, who was in charge of the modest experiment
station aforementioned, started an experiment which ultimately led
to the elucidation of the mode of transmission of Texas fever. What
Kilbourne did in 1889 is contained in the following statement, written
by Smith as part of his contribution to the Sixth and Seventh Annual
Reports of the Chief of the Bureau of Animal Industry for the years
1889 and 1890:

During the summer of 1889 Dr. F. L. Kilbourne in arranging the various en-
closures at the experiment station for the exposure of native cattle to the in-
fection of Texas fever, conceived the happy idea of testing the popular theory
of the relation of ticks to the disease. This he did by placing southern (North
Carolina) cattle with native cattle in the same enclosures and picking the ticks
from the southern cattle as soon as they had grown large enough to be detected
on the skin. This prevented any ticks from maturing and infecting the pasture
with the eggs, and hence prevented any ticks from infesting native cattle subse-
quently. At the same time in another enclosure the ticks were left on the south-
ern cattle. The natives in the latter field died of Texas fever: those in the former
did not show any signs of the disease.

(3) Curtice worked out the life cycle of the fever tick for which he
created a new genus, naming it Boophilus, and determined for the first
time, in connection with tick life-history studies, that this parasite
spent its entire developmental cycle, beginning with the seed tick, on
the same host, instead of dropping off the host after each molt. This
important discovery made it possible to apply certain measures to con-
trol these ticks, and paved the way for tick eradication, which finally
resulted in the extermination of bovine piroplasmosis from the United
States.

Additional investigations, carried out jointly by Smith and Kil-
bourne between 1890 and 1892, established conclusively that neither
the soil from pastures on which ticky cattle had grazed, nor direct
physical contact of healthy with affected animals, was involved in the
transfer of the disease from parasitized to susceptible cattle. More-
over, by placing on susceptible cattle the seed ticks that had hatched
from the eggs deposited by gravid female ticks, the symptoms and
lesions of tick fever, as well as the causative microparasites, were
observed in the animals which became experimentally infected.
Finally, it was shown by blood inoculations that the microparasites,
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ 347

named Piroplasma bigemima, were the causative agents of the disease,
and that the tick, Boophilus annulatus, merely served to transmit them.

The determination of the nature of the causative agent of tick
fever and its mode of transmission, as well as the demonstration of
the main facts in the life cycle of the arthropod carrier, is certainly
among the outstanding achievements in microbiology. These dis-
coveries, significant as they were from a scientific standpoint, did not
by themselves ease the burden on livestock producers in the South,
whose cattle could not be shipped to northern markets, except for
slaughter, between the middle of February and the middle of Novem-
ber, in conformity with measures that had been adopted in the mean-
time to confine tick fever to the areas where it was enzootic. All
the Southern States, from Virginia to Florida, and extending west-
ward to include Texas and Oklahoma, were in the enzootic area. These
States, along with California, were sooner or later placed under
Federal quarantine. Therefore, to meet the practical needs of cattle
producers, and to afford relief to a large section of the country which
was seriously hampered in the development of a well-rounded agri-
cultural economy, it became necessary to devise means for freeing
cattle in the South and elsewhere of fever ticks. Investigations were
begun in 1892 in which many veterinarians outside the Bureau of
Animal Industry participated. These investigations were continued
for several years beyond the initiation, in 1906, of a systematic cam-
paign, under joint Federal and State auspices, with the objective of
eradicating cattle fever ticks from the United States.

During a period of about 15 years various materials were tested as
smears, sprays, and dips for the destruction of cattle ticks, in an effort
to find a chemical that would destroy these arthropods without in-
juring their hosts. Substance after substance, as well as various com-
binations of substances, were tested and discarded, because the ticks
proved to resist them much better than the cattle. As a desperate
measure, cattle were even driven into the ocean’s surf, in the hope
that the pounding of the waves would dislodge the ticks. By 1903
crude petroleum was generally accepted as superior to any other
tickicide discovered up to that time. Other control measures were
tried, including active and passive immunization of cattle against
piroplasmosis; starving the ticks by removing the cattle from the
pastures contaminated with tick eggs and larvae, and keeping the
pastures vacant for several months; and rotation of cattle on pastures,
based on the demonstrated facts in the life history of the arthropod
vector. These and other measures were tried as adjuncts to, or substi-
tutes for, dipping of cattle in medicated baths.

In 1906 experiments were initiated with arsenical dips, which had
already been used in Australia and Cuba for tick eradication. Arsenic
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

proved to be superior to any other tickicide that had been used up to
that time in this country. By dipping tick-infested cattle in arsenical
solutions every 2 weeks, which was the procedure finally adopted,
most of the ticks on the cattle were poisoned by the chemical. Ransom
determined that the engorged ticks which survived dipping laid fewer
eggs on the ground than those from untreated cattle. Of the larvae
that hatched from the eggs laid by the dipped female ticks, many died
before they could get onto cattle. The seed ticks which succeeded
in crawling onto cattle and living there were destroyed by the next dip-
ping in arsenic. In short, the cattle were used as the collectors of
the seed ticks present on the pasture, and the arsenical solution was
used to destroy them on the cattle. With successive dippings the
numbers of ticks found on cattle maintained on tick-infested pastures
gradually diminished and disappeared altogether after several months
of repeated dippings, at intervals of 2 weeks, throughout the spring,
summer, and early fall months.

I have dwelt at considerable length on tick fever because it was
the first parasitic disease of livestock on which an all-out attack
was made in this country, with a successful outcome, and also be-
cause the story of tick fever in the United States is unparalleled in
the annals of disease control, human or animal, anywhere in the
world. With no definite knowledge whatsoever available in the be-
ginning as to the cause, or mode of transmission, of the disease, all
the facts pertaining to its nature and mode of spread—which cer-
tainly was a surprising one at the time it was made—and _ habits
and mode of life of its arthropod vector, were brought to light as
a result of research carried out in one place. Moreover, the means
whereby the vector could be destroyed, without unduly injuring the
host, also were discovered. This paved the way for cutting the
lifeline by means of which the piroplasms were carried from the
blood of one bovine to another. Finally, on the basis of the facts
ascertained through long-sustained experimentation, a death sen-
tence was pronounced on the two arthropod carriers of the disease,
Boophilus annulatus and Boophilus microplus, and on the sporozoan
parasites which they conveyed to their bovine hosts. That this sen-
tence was carried out after more than four decades of strenuous effort,
and in the face of strong opposition, is certainly a tribute to the re-
search workers who forged the weapons of tick destruction, and to the
many who used them.

Cattle fever ticks and the disease they transmit have been eradi-
cated from the United States, except from a long, narrow strip of
territory adjacent to the Rio Grande River. This strip, which is
about 500 miles long, extends from Devils River near Del Rio, Tex.,
to the Gulf of Mexico, and to an average depth of 4 to 5 miles. As
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHW ARTZ 349

far as can be foreseen now, the cattle in this buffer zone will remain
under quarantine until fever ticks are eradicated from Mexico. De-
spite the systematic dipping of cattle in the buffer zone, the drifting
of animals from both sides of the river maintains the tick infesta-
tion, accompanied by occasional cases of piroplasmosis.

SHEEP SCABIES

At no time did scab or scabies of food-producing animals present
a challenge that was even remotely comparable to that presented
by the once mysterious malady called Texas fever. In 1884 the
cause of sheep scab was well known, as was also the life history of
the mite, Psoroptes equi var. ovis. The research that brought these
facts to light was done in the first half of the nineteenth century,
when it was shown by experiments that scabies in sheep did not
develop in the absence of mites, and could be produced experimentally
by transplanting the specific scab mites from affected to healthy
sheep. It had been established also that the losses from this disease
were severe, and resulted in the shedding of the wool, marked
emaciation, anemia, and exhaustion which finally ended in death of a
large percentage of untreated animals.

Before the turn of the century sheep in large areas of this country
were affected with scabies, and many stockmen were forced to forsake
sheep raising on account of the ravages of this disease. In fact, so
severe were the monetary losses sustained by owners of scabby
flocks, that Salmon and Stiles in 1898 regarded this disease as second
only to hog cholera, from the standpoint of the loss of invested
capital in livestock raising. The large bands of sheep on the Great
Plains and in the Rocky Mountain region, as well as sheep in the
feeding centers farther east, were most severely affected. Moreover,
diseased sheep from those areas were sent to the large markets of
the country, thereby spreading scabies almost everywhere. As a
consequence of the uncontrolled marketing of scabby sheep, the stock-
yards became contaminated and many animals that were purchased
there were likely to develop the disease.

Various plans were tried to arrest the further spread of scabies and
to devise means of eradicating it. In 1895 a decree was issued, pur-
suant to authority granted by the Congress, prohibiting scabby sheep
from entering stockyards or any other places where animals are
handled for interstate trade, or to enter into interstate trade, but no
apparent progress was made in checking the disease. Subsequent
orders required cleaning and disinfecting boats, railroad cars, and
other vehicles which had been used for the transportation of scabby
sheep; prohibited railroads and other transportation companies, and
captains of steamboats, from receiving for transportation, or from
350 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

transporting from one State to another, sheep affected with scabies;
and required, moreover, that all sheep shipped from stockyards to
other States for feeding purposes be dipped in some preparation that
would kill the mites. These devices alone did not show sufficient
promise, however, in accomplishing the desired results. Even station-
ing of inspectors at shipping points in western States and at public
stockyards to supervise dipping was insufficient to make a significant
dent in the extent of the disease, or to sharply curtail its dissemination.
It was not until a Federal quarantine was placed on all the territory
west of the eastern borders of North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas,
Oklahoma, and Texas—an area covering 1,700,000 square miles—
that a promising plan for extirpating sheep scabies from the United
States actually got under way.

Under the new plan, inspections of sheep for evidence of scabies
were made systematically on the farm and range. Treatment by dip-
ping, under governmental supervision, in medicated solutions of
established efficacy was also required for all flocks that were affected
with, or had been exposed to, scabies. This plan, initiated in 1905
and still in effect today to a limited extent, resulted in the eradication
of scabies from sheep in areas of this country where it was once wide-
spread, and in reducing it elsewhere.

In 1898, Salmon and Stiles, in a publication on sheep scabies, re-
viewed critically the dips then in use, reported their own experiments
with dips, and settled on two, namely, nicotine and lime-sulfur.
These two dips have been used successfully ever since 1905 in millions
of dippings. During the past few years the Zoological Division of
the Bureau of Animal Industry developed a dip that, in many ways,
is superior to, and much simpler to use than, the two that received
official sanction. The active ingredient of the new dip is one of the
chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides, hexachlorocyclohexane, gen-
erally referred to as benzene hexachloride, or BHC for short. This
chemical has been standardized for scabies eradication, on the basis
of its gamma isomer content, to provide a margin of safety that should
meet most of the likely contingencies that are apt to arise. The new
treatment is rapidly gaining the approval of sheep producers and
livestock sanitary officials. Through its use, the relatively small
residue of what was once the most debilitating disease of ovine stock
can be eradicated, I believe, in much less time than with the old
treatments.

TRICHINAE IN SWINE

When Joseph Leidy reported in 1846 to the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia the occurrence of trichinae in the superficial
part of the extensor muscle of a hog, he inadvertently took the first
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ 351

step that resulted in placing a stigma on pork produced in this coun-
try—a stigma which has persisted for many decades. By 1881 restric-
tive measures against the importation of pork from the United States
were promulgated by various governments of continental Europe—
Italy, Austria, Germany, and France following one another in rapid
succession. In the year before this prohibition went into effect, 70
million pounds of pork from the United States had been exported to
France, and 43 million pounds to Germany. For the next 10 years
pork from the United States was shut out by governmental decree
from nearly every market on the Continent of Europe. To regain
this export trade, there was inaugurated in 1892 a system of micro-
scopic inspection of all pork intended for export. This inspection,
which was terminated in 1906, was carried out only to meet the
requirements of the import countries, some of which required a similar
inspection under their own meat hygiene practices. Under current
Federal meat inspection there is no provision for microscopic inspec-
tion of pork intended for any purpose whatsoever. The abandonment
of microscopic inspection of pork for export resulted from reports,
especially from Germany, that trichinae were found from time to time
in pork that had been imported from the United States and certified
as free of these parasites. This was not surprising, considering the
fact that it was well known in countries that had had experience with
this scheme of prophylaxis that the detection of trichinae by micro-
scopic inspection is, at best, a hit-or-miss method. The parasites
were not discovered, as a rule, in lightly infested carcasses and were
overlooked at times even in those that harbored sizable infections.

Studies made in this country before 1891 showed that only about 2
percent of the hogs were infected with trichinae. The routine micro-
scopic inspections of pork (pl. 1, fig. 2), that were made over a period
of years thereafter showed that in over 8,000,000 hogs from which
muscle tissue was examined microscopically, live trichinae were found
in only about 1.5 percent. Studies made a decade or so ago by the Bu-
reau of Animal Industry by the far more accurate digestion technique
(pl. 1, fig. 3), also showed an over-all infection rate of about 1.5 per-
cent. When critically analyzed, however, the newer figures actually
showed that in the intervening years there occurred a sharp reduction
in the prevalence of trichinae in swine, especially in those raised on the
farm. In one series of examinations, involving both microscopic in-
spection and digestion, it was found that in only 21 percent of the dia-
phragms in which trichinae were discovered by the digestion technique
could these parasites be demonstrated by microscopic inspection. Dur-
ing the past 2 years, trichinae in very small numbers were found in our
laboratory by the digestion technique in about 1 percent of about 1,200
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

diaphragms from Corn Belt Hogs,? but only negative results were
obtained when samples from the same diaphragms were examined
microscopically with painstaking care. Therefore, the 1.5 percent
trichinous hogs discovered by microscopic inspection several decades
ago undoubtedly represented only part of the infected carcasses that
were then present in this country.

Unlike the findings in farm-raised hogs, in which the extent and
degree of infection with trichinae are apparently on the downgrade,
those in garbage-fed hogs which, fortunately, constitute only a very
small percentage of the total hog slaughter in this country, continue
to show a high incidence and a comparatively high degree of infection.
Recent studies in our laboratories showed that over 10 percent of
garbage-fed hogs from the eastern seaboard still harbored trichinae,
and that the degree of infection was so high that about half of the
infected samples were detected by careful microscopic inspection
alone.

Under Federal meat inspection, parasites and the lesions they pro-
duce in edible portions of carcasses must be removed by trimming be-
fore the carcasses or affected parts are passed for human food. If the
infection or associated lesions are so extensive, however, that trim-
ming would be impossible or impractical, the carcass or part is con-
demned. Since trichinous pork does not differ in appearance from
noninfected pork, it follows that trichinous hogs may be passed for
human food, under Federal and other meat inspection, almost every
day. Fortunately, however, raw pork, as such, is seldom eaten in this
country intentionally, and then only by persons having a capricious
appetite, or who have become addicted to this habit because of national
origin or association with homes where this unhygienic dietary custom
prevails. Cooked trichinous pork presents no danger whatsoever, a
fact of which Leidy was well aware when he explained to the Phila-
delphia Academy of Natural Sciences in 1866 the circumstances under
which he first discovered trichinae in pork 20 years earlier. Actually,
he found these parasites in a slice of cooked pork he was eating, and
stated that he had already satisfied himself that such meat was safe,
because parasites generally were destroyed by thorough cooking.

The Bureau of Animal Industry has repeatedly informed the pub-
lic that raw or inadequately cooked or cured pork is dangerous. In
the absence of any known system of inspection whereby trichinous
pork could be tagged and eliminated from the channels of trade, the
problem has been met in the only other way that is possible and practi-
cal. Through its meat inspection service, the Bureau of Animal In-
dustry rigidly enforces a requirement that no ready-to-eat article of

? Since this paper was written, the infection rate by microscopic examination of over
3,000 diaphragms was found to be 0.63 percent.
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ 353

food shall contain any muscle tissue of pork, unless that meat has been
refrigerated, or heated, or otherwise treated, in a manner that will in-
sure the destruction of trichinae. The background for these require-
ments lies in extensive investigational work carried out by Ransom
and his associates and by others in the Bureau of Animal Industry.
In 1913 Ransom determined, following exhaustive tests, that certain
low temperatures, compatible with the practical requirements of the
meat industry, destroyed the vitality of trichinae. Later investiga-
tions established the fact that the heating of pork to a temperature
of not less than 58° C., as well as certain curing procedures also de-
stroyed these nematode larvae. These findings, translated into action
by Federal meat inspection, have given to the American people for
several decades a protection from pork-containing products that
otherwise would have been the most fertile sources of trichinosis.

EARLY INVESTIGATIONS OF INTERNAL PARASITES

Aside from trichinae and a few other helminths of livestock, little
was known at the time the Bureau of Animal Industry was established
about the kinds of parasitic worms that occurred in our domestic ani-
mals, and even less was known about verminous diseases. Curtice,
Stiles, Ward, and a few others contributed much that helped to lay
a foundation upon which those who followed built a sizable structure
of knowledge of the helminths and the diseases they cause in food-pro-
ducing animals. In this address only the early work on the helminth
parasites of livestock will be mentioned.

Even while sheep scabies was receiving preferred attention, it was
recognized that the internal parasites of ovines could not be ignored.
Stomach worms already had a reputation as being injurious parasites
of sheep, and it was assumed, moreover, that there might be others
that had the capacity of doing serious harm. It is not surprising,
therefore, that Curtice, who began his studies in the Bureau of Ani-
mal Industry in 1886, should have embarked on a study of the para-
sites of sheep. That study resulted in the publication of a treatise
on the subject, which contained much that was new and significant.
Perhaps the outstanding contribution made by Curtice, while engaged
in this study, was the discovery of the cause of nodular disease which,
because of the resemblance of its lesions to those produced by the
tubercle bacillus, had been considered as intestinal tuberculosis and
studied, therefore, from a bacteriological standpoint. Curtice de-
termined, however, that the nodules were caused by nematode larvae,
which he recognized to be the developmental stages of mature worms
localized in the large intestine, and named by him Oesophagostomum
columbianum.
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Stiles, who followed Curtice as the parasitologist of the Bureau of
Animal Industry, brought to bear on his investigations a wide know]-
edge of zoology and parasitology, together with a strong bent toward
preparing comprehensive studies and reviews of the morphology,
classification, and taxonomy of parasites of all sorts, including ar-
thropods. Independently and in collaboration with Hassall, he con-
tributed extensively to our knowledge of the cestodes of ruminants
and of related tapeworms of rabbits and hares, parasites of importance
in the inspection of meats, nematode parasites of ruminants, and re-
lated problems in parasitology. Stiles also was one of the earliest
workers to investigate verminous diseases of ruminants, which he
found to be associated principally with stomach worms and, to a lesser
extent, with other helminths.

Ransom, who succeeded Stiles in 1903, resumed the studies of rumi-
nant parasites begun by Curtice 15 years earlier, limiting his inves-
tigations to the nematodes, but extending them to include the
roundworms of all the domestic ruminants. With the painstaking
precision which characterized his scientific work, Ransom showed
that the nematode fauna of ruminants in this country was richer than
his predecessors had recognized or suspected. He established, more-
over, sound and concise morphological criteria for the identification
of the genera and species involved. In his classic study of the life
history of the stomach worm, Haemonchus contortus, and of other
nematodes of ruminants, he determined that there was a pattern of
larval development and behavior, which has since been found to fit,
in a general way, the strongylid nematodes of herbivorous animals as
a whole. Ransom’s investigations of ruminant parasites were brought
together in a monograph on the nematodes parasitic in the alimentary
tract of cattle, sheep, and other ruminants. Though this study was
published in 1911, it is still a useful and prized possession of livestock
parasitologists the world over, and in demand even today.

INVESTIGATIONS OF ANTHELMINTICS

Some years ago a pharmacologist in one of our leading medical
schools called attention to the fact that most of the anthelmintics then
known were derived from plants. He even speculated that this might
indicate a fundamental antagonism between animals and plants, the
one group being capable of producing substances that are more or
less injurious to the other. That most of the older anthelmintics were
of plant origin is evident from the mere enumeration of such sub-
stances as turpentine, areca nut, thymol, kamala, chenopodium, male
fern, and santonin, among others.

In 1918 Hall and Foster published the results of an experiment in-
volving most of the then known veterinary anthelmintics, and con-
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ 355

cluded that many, which by tradition had been regarded as highly
efficacious, were actually without merit. They discarded, one after
another, most of the older vermifuges they investigated, and gave
a nod of approval to only a few, namely, copper sulfate, oil of cheno-
podium, oleoresin of male fern, turpentine, and nicotine. Shortly
after the publication of these results, Hall introduced into the arma-
mentarium of anthelmintics two synthetic substances, both chlorinated
hydrocarbons, namely, carbon tetrachloride and tetrachlorethylene.
Though these compounds were found to have some application in the
treatment of livestock for the removal of helminths, their chief value
lay in their efficacy for the removal of hookworms from man and carni-
vores. Several related synthetic compounds, notably normal butyl
chloride, normal butylidene chloride, and hexachloroethane, also were
found to be of value in medicating parasitized livestock.

Aside from carbon tetrachloride and hexachloroethane, which are
still used in treating domestic ruminants for the removal of liver
flukes, the chlorinated hydrocarbon anthelmintics, as well as most
of the other anthelmintics used earlier, have been replaced to a great
extent by more effective drugs. This is due principally to a discovery
made in the Bureau of Animal Industry in 1939, concerning the anthel-
mintic efficacy of thiodiphenylamine, or phenothiazine. This sub-
stance was synthesized in 1885, but lay dormant for many decades
before anyone thought of using it for therapeutic purposes. First
brought into experimental use as an insecticide and later as a urinary
antiseptic, it was found to be of great value in treating horses, cattle,
sheep, goats, swine, and poultry for the removal of certain nematodes.
Though launched as an anthelmintic only two years before we became
involved in World War II, 3 million pounds of phenothiazine were
manufactured in the United States for anthelmintic use in 1944, to
protect our livestock, especially sheep, from the depredations of
roundworm parasites. Today, when our livestock must again be
carefully safeguarded as a defense measure, the annual production of
phenothiazine in this country is about 5 million pounds, and would
greatly exceed that figure if present-day shortages did not limit the
volume of production. A number of foreign countries, especially
those with large sheep populations, have been making strong appeals
to this Government for allotments of phenothiazine or the parent
substance, diphenylamine, adequate to protect their sheep and other
jivestock from parasites in times of emergency.

Because anthelmintics are more or less specific in their action, in-
vestigators working in this field are faced with the responsibility of
discovering more effective drugs than are now available for the
treatment of specific verminous diseases. Recently, sodium fluoride
came into use as a treatment for the removal of ascarids from swine
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

and has almost displaced all other treatments previously used for
this purpose. Lead arsenate is rapidly displacing older treatments
tor the removal of tapeworms from ruminants. ‘The recent discoveries
of anthelmintic drugs also have opened up opportunities to parasit-
ologists for careers with commercial firms that manufacture or formu-
late anthelmintic and other parasiticidal chemicals.

DISCUSSION

It is evident from the discussion of even a few of the problems with
which the livestock parasitologist in the United States has been dealing
that the research findings and action programs based on them have
been directed mainly to the conservation and increase of food and
fiber, needed by a population that has been steadily increasing. How-
ever, it is evident also that the production of livestock cannot be
increased indefinitely, because our available grasslands and our capac-
ity to grow livestock feed are limited to a large extent by our geo-
graphic boundaries. Since extending our geographical frontiers is
certainly not part of our national policy or ambition, our increased
food production in the future will require, among other things,
pushing steadily to the new frontiers that are opened up by scientific
discovery.

How soon we shall reach a saturation point in our ability to support
the increasing numbers of livestock that will be needed in keeping
with the growth of our population, and how extensive this increase
will have to be, cannot now be predicted. It should be borne in mind,
however, that great progress is already being made in developing ge-
netically superior strains of food-producing animals and in discovering
superior methods of preventing virus, bacterial, parasitic, nutritional,
and other diseases of animals, as well as suppressing their insect pests.

Whether we shall be able to support indefinitely an increasing popu-
lation is a question that has already aroused considerable discussion.
The neo-Malthusians, who take the pessimistic view, foresee dire con-
sequences in increasing populations, especially in countries that are
already overcrowded. They regard the introduction of new and im-
proved public health measures into the so-called backward countries
as merely hastening there the approach of mass starvation. Also,
they charge that the introduction of life-prolonging measures merely
aggravates the food problem in those parts of the world that already
have teeming populations, now living on a low nutritional plane, if
not actually facing famine. In fact, they ask bluntly what is accom-
plished by saving millions of people from malaria and other diseases
in the world’s most congested areas, if this will merely result in
giving them added time to suffer from malnutrition and finally die
of starvation.
LIVESTOCK PARASITOLOGY—SCHWARTZ Sia

These are, indeed, difficult questions to answer today, in a world
that is already beset by more perplexities than it can find time to re-
solve. The livestock parasitologist adds little or nothing to the
world’s perplexities, however, but like other agricultural scientists,
offers much that can help to resolvethem. The livestock parasitologist
is a conservationist, being essentially concerned with maintaining and
increasing the supply of human food which, in the final analysis, is the
greatest of our natural resources.
<BR Atty vARINRIN ripe

bisnin mi: Mabeatt PE os ite
~oT- Oo) erat bait ecoy, seals moms 1% oF
orht i) geister 7. calf: ceb Bas ek , | 5 <
Aaitnais harms liloinge todd edhe pater
THRO imiasaag tyotevvil oto vette

‘the geinigiaicn ae pees ret a a

oy 2: aseginan feud edt. efloncioe ‘pogt uncnusit Yo q

Dart og lt ities Die Seated .
SS niet eld Sots Progen is ase}: c.
the cbrseswatied 4nd HENGE
etret Las Toate ey actly inne
Y bos preadeieey i eet sole etl
Vv ee tha hits; oe Binh hada ead inate
whe wie aha tay Gta
oe yv preter g deriiiis oe ‘Fagin at =
; Wh Oe Rie Rea eA aE se ean
a tO) CEE. eee i
ry i ‘ jeer ae 7 ‘aleitl,.
4@
1 408 i tata) hay 4 ronpinat
pti ar iad 4 coping
baat vialhar thiw neregen,
. ni € is vobhe onal,
mere i veri iri Be
Sia Wit GGA Yvivinig 7
pitayvie, Salapionl,
aS pining Here i Ba: paats,
it hela iel yp aeeae wen Pape
LeAriwsl ‘senate chine gaint om.’ J
Wj agihebee The eerste

; pire Gnd? tft aOY, ra Om Ag epshm2 7 é
hy eniiiens A the gate oF ee opt Chat aba
eT he?) et ty patna unt pinad fe

lot -eow | hee by. seks Bt te ACoA:

ooh a: mh 3 er oiser: dikes

; i3 thas WAR merely feel in’
Pt ir bar ian (nae Nis rtigyt. ate Pally a4

.

ae i a at 2a

he
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Schwartz PLATE 1

%
:
’
&
e

ee
é

ats inal. a |

1. CATTLE-BLOOD SMEAR SHOWING TWO PEAR-SHAPED, DARK-STAINING ORGAN-
ISMS IN SOME OF THE RED BLOOD CELLS

These organisms are the causative agents of tick fever or piroplasmosis. (Greatly enlarged.)

2. TRICHINAE ENCYSTED IN MUSCLE 3. TRICHINAE DIGESTED OUT OF
ISSUE MUSCLE TISSUE

(Enlarged.) (Enlarged.)
Botanizing with the Okinawans

By EcBert H. WALKER

Department of Botany, U. S. National Museum

[With 10 plates]

Oxrnawa Island first became a real place in the minds of the people
of the United States in April 1945, when our Armed Forces made there
the last significant island invasion of World War II. With that in-
vasion the United States Government assumed responsibility for
another native population. It was my good fortune to spend over
three months in the summer of 1951 botanizing in the Ryukyu Islands?
southwest of Japan, of which chain Okinawa is the largest and most
important island. My mission was to aid the United States Civil
Administration in solving some of its economic problems through
botanical investigation.

The war left these islands in an impoverished condition. They
had been governed by Japanese officials, though the people of the
Ryukyus are not strictly Japanese. With the departure or subsequent
removal of the former officials, the Ryukyuans were left with inex-
perienced leaders. A third of Okinawa Island, the most important
part, was devastated by the violent battles of the war. Sugar re-
fineries were gaunt spectres, shipping facilities were wiped out, and
even the markets for the possible exports from these islands were
gone. Postwar rehabilitation of Ryukyuans, especially of Okinawans,
from the Pacific Islands, South America, and elsewhere increased
the population of the islands from about 839,000 in 1940 to over
940,000 in 1952, too many for the land to support as it was then being
farmed; and the requirements of an occupying force, still engaged in
extensive military operations, even today seriously hamper recovery.

It is the task of the United States Civil Administration of the
Ryukyus, a part of the United States Army, to make these islands

1The confusing multiplicity of names of these islands is due to the variant translitera-
tions of the original Japanese and Chinese names by peoples of many western as well as
eastern countries. Among the principal variants are: Lew Chew, Lewchew, Lieuchieux,
Liu Chiu, Liu Ch’iu, Liuchiu, Liukiu, Liu-Kiu, Loo Choo, Loo-Choo, Loochoo, Luchu,
Riu-kiu, Riu-Kiu, Riu Kiu, Riukiu, Ryukyu, and Ryukyus. The last two are accredited
by the Board on Geographic Names, U. S. Department of the Interior.

236639—53——24 359
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

more self-sufficient. Those in charge have undertaken a new and
difficult job, but they are attacking the problems in a realistic manner
and at their roots. In order to bring about this urgent recovery, the
administrators recognize that they must have exact scientific informa-
tion on which to base their decisions and programs. Such information
is all tooscanty. As far as botany is concerned, although the area has
been an integral part of the Japanese Empire since 1871, Japanese
scientists in 1941 still considered it the dark region of Japanese
botany. Naturally westerners knew little of the area, although
English, Dutch, French, German, and American naturalists had oc-
casionally collected plants there since about 1800. The last western
botanist permitted to visit the region was E. H. Wilson, of the Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University, who was there in 1917 (15).2_ Of
course, the Japanese botanists have studied the area to some extent
but have not as yet produced the comprehensive treatment of the flora
that is needed. There is, however, one work that partly supplies
this need and is important to this story of botanizing in the Ryukyus
in 1951. It is a Flora of Okinawa written by three local botanists
and now mimeographed in Naha, Okinawa, by the United States
Civil Administration (8).

PREPARATION OF A FLORA OF OKINAWA

Many of the men of the United States occupation forces in the Ryu-
kyus after the war ceased in 1945 were natural-history minded. They
were, however, frustrated in their attempts to satisfy their curiosity
about the plants of their environment by the lack of any adequate
books to guide them. They needed a Flora of Okinawa, and, as with
other determined people, they soon found a solution. In Sakuya
Sonohara, ardent Okinawan botanist and teacher of agriculture and
forestry, they found a man capable and willing to write such a Flora
(pl. 1, upper, right). Acting on the suggestion of these botanically
interested American servicemen of the occupation forces, Lieutenant
Commander Hanna, director of the Education Department, American
Naval Military Government in Okinawa, and Atsuo Yamashiro, di-
rector of the Education Department, Okinawan Civilian Administra-
tion, asked Mr. Sonohara to prepare this work. But Sonohara, near-
ing 60 years of age, soon became ill of malaria, and his younger friend,
fellow teacher, and botanical associate, Shinjun Tawada (pl. 1, lower),
discovered his plight and his worthy task and, fearing the death of his
teacher before its completion, joined eagerly in the work. Here, it
seemed, was the opportunity they had long sought to write a Flora
of Okinawa. But the obstacles were great.

2 See references at end of text.
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 361

Every published scientific flora or enumeration of the plants of an
area should be based on a collection of plant specimens. These docu-
ment and support the publication and are referred to when questions
arise concerning the validity of the published record. These Okina-
wan authors had been studying the plants of Okinawa and the other
Ryukyu islands for many years and had collected numerous specimens.
Although they had never had an opportunity for academic botanical
training, they knew their plants well. They had corresponded with
Japanese botanists and guided them when they came to Okinawa to
collect, even as they guided me in 1951, and had learned much from
them. For over 25 years Sonohara had been building up a herbarium
on which he hoped to base his projected Flora of Okinawa. But, like
many other Okinawan treasures, it was a war casualty, burned during
the invasion in 1945. He had sent specimens to Japan for study by
specialists and for deposit in Japanese herbaria, but these were un-
available for reference in this task of writing a flora in 1945-46. Thus,
except for their memories and a few far-from-adequate Japanese
botanical books which they had been able to save, they had nothing to
work with, a situation that would have stopped less determined and
ardent botanists. They even lacked paper on which to write, but
Tawada’s friend, the Shuri city postmaster, fortunately had a usable
supply and girl assistants to rule it by hand as needed. Thus they
persevered, and in spite of these handicaps, finally, after several
months, prepared in English, a language foreign to them, a systematic
enumeration of over 2,500 species of Okinawan plants. It gave their
scientific, Japanese, and Okinawan names in Romanji, with notes on
their distribution, habitats, and uses. Space was left for someone else
to insert the English names of those few, mostly introductions, that
had such designations. To them this work was the fulfillment of a
dream, and naturally they hoped it would be published. Then, be-
hold, Sonohara’s malaria left him; and the manuscript was turned over
to the Americans, who received it with eagerness and gratitude.

In spite of its lack of documentation and its recognized short-
comings, this manuscript supplied a need. With it the servicemen
could find names for their collections, at least tentative ones that
could be verified later by more critical study elsewhere. Previously
there was nothing; now there was at least a guide. It was, however,
only one manuscript for the use of many scattered naturalists, and
its duplication was clearly needed. Accordingly, Dr. Arthur Galston,
then agricultural officer with the occupying forces and now associate
professor of biology in the California Institute of Technology, brought
the manuscript with him when he returned to the States and sought
its publication.

Because of my desire to promote botanical collecting, especially
by our servicemen in all parts of the world, so as to enlarge the col-
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

lections in the United States National Herbarium under the Smith-
sonian Institution, I assumed the task of preparing the manuscript
for duplication. Its lack of documentation by specimens studied
by the authors was recognized, but, if duplicated, it could be a useful
aid in building a new reference herbarium. This Flora lacked refer-
ences to scientific publications, but these I could supply. Documenta-
tion by specimens, however, was impossible, since the National Her-
barium and other American herbaria contain a mere sprinkling of
specimens from the Ryukyus and since access to Japanese herbaria was
impossible. The Flora of Okinawa was, therefore, far from scientifi-
cally acceptable. During this work I was in correspondence with the
two original authors and with the third author, Tetsuwo Amano (pl. 1,
upper, left), another ardent Okinawan botanist, who, on his repatri-
ation after the war from duties as a forester with the Japanese in
Manchuria, supplied many additions to Sonohara’s and Tawada’s list.

SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION IN THE RYUKYU ISLANDS

At this point the United States Civil Administration of the Ryu-
kyus, called USCAR for short, the successor to the naval government
earlier in charge, found in the Pacific Science Board of the National
Research Council—National Academy of Sciences in Washington
an answer to its need for scientific information on which to base its
programs for bringing about greater economic independence and self-
sufficiency in these islands. It made a contract with the National
Academy of Sciences which enabled the Pacific Science Board to
conduct two joint programs with the Civil Administration for “Scien-
tific Investigation of the Ryukyu Islands,” characteristically designat-
ed the SIRI program. One part of this program called for a botani-
cal survey of the Ryukyu Islands.

Learning of my special interest in the botany of the Ryukyus, the
Pacific Science Board asked me to undertake this mission. —The United
States National Museum, Smithsonian Institution, generously re-
leased me for four months from other duties. This seemed to me
an almost God-given opportunity to collect documented scientific
plant specimens that would constitute a foundation for the Flora of
Okinawa by Sonohara, Tawada, and Amano. Furthermore, the work
would begin to supply the Army’s need for basic botanical informa-
tion on the area. It was stipulated in the objectives of the trip that
I would give aid to agricultural, forestry, and other economic projects
then under way. As these objectives developed, there was added
that of helping to establish a herbarium at the recently created Uni-
versity of the Ryukyus (pl. 2, upper). The core of this herbarium
would be a selected set of the specimens from those collected under the
SIRI program after they were properly identified.
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 363

I wish here to express my appreciation to the Pacific Science Board
and the Smithsonian Institution for providing all the supplies and
equipment needed for this work and for the thorough preparations
for the trip. I am likewise deeply indebted to the United States
Army for its generous support and able guidance, especially to Brig.
Gen. James M. Lewis, in charge of the United States Civil Admin-
istration in the Ryukyus, and to Richard M. Varney, of the Forestry
Section, Food and Natural Resources Department, USCAR in Naha,
Okinawa. Many other civilians, both American and Okinawan, ren-
dered valuable assistance, without which the objectives of the mis-
sion could not have been attained, and to them I am deeply grateful.

BOTANIZING IN OKINAWA

After 23 years of herbarium work, largely on the eastern Asiatic
collection in the Smithsonian Institution, it was indeed a great satis-
faction to receive this assignment to collect specimens in the field
and to see the live plants previously known only by their dried repre-
sentatives. Traveling on Army orders, I left Washington by air on
May 31, 1951. En route, I visited Japanese botanists and institutions
in order to enlist their cooperation in identifying the specimens to be
collected. About 6 hours after taking off from Tokyo on June 12, the
Army transport plane, on which I was the only civilian passenger,
opened its door at the Naha airport, and I stepped forth into the soft,
humid, midnight breeze of Okinawa.

Before going further with this story it will be well to gain an
understanding of the geography, climate, and other pertinent fea-
tures of the Ryukyu Islands. The map (fig. 1) shows them as a
775-mile-long necklace draped between the island of Kyushu, the
southern and most subtropical of the main area of Japan, and the
northeastern tip of Formosa or Taiwan, with Okinawa Shima, or
Okinawa Island, in about the center. This archipelago is obviously
a drowned mountain chain with the higher parts still protruding
above the sea. In latitude Okinawa lies as far north as Miami, Fla.
West and north lie China and Korea within easy bomber and jet-
fighter distance across the shallow East China Sea. On the east and
south the floor of the Pacific Ocean drops off steeply from the narrow
Ryukyu shelf to one of its deepest trenches.

Geologically the Ryukyu Archipelago is composed of three rather
distinct arcs. The central arc consists of Paleozoic and igneous rocks
and contains the larger islands, including, from north to south, Yaku
Shima, Amami-Oshima, Tokuno Shima, the northern part of Okinawa
Shima, Ishigaki Shima, and Iriomote Shima. The outer or eastern
arc consists of Tertiary and young rocks and includes Tanega Shima,
Kikai Shima, the southern and eastern part of Okinawa Shima,
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Miyako Shima, and Hateruma Shima. The western or inner arc
consists of the islands of volcanic origin, including those of the
Tokara Gunto or Archipelago, Tori Shima, Aguni Shima, and
Kume Shima. On some of the northern islands of this are there
are still active volcanic vents.

OKINAWA SHIMA

wt
N)

a h 1 “pra NECA SH/MA\
U

oe
YAKU SH/IMA
c

Q
A
y
» QD x1KAr SHIMA
© Os, MAM -OSH/MA
TORI SHIMA © N GroKUNO SHIMA

SEA Ne) OK/INOERABU SHIMA

Xo
JHEVA SHE ,
°

JE SHO OK/INAWA SH/IMA

AGUM/ SHe
AUME Shy °
ena N 1
Oo Rett U
“/NAWA

PACIFIC
OCEAN

SENKAKU 950 op/YAKO SHIMA
GUNT

TARAMA
SH.

CUEAN ad
AGUNIP ip
YORUM oreo YAEYAMA RETTO
IRI AA *HATERUMA SHIMA

gunT?

2em1yAKO RETTO

SAKISHIMA RYUKYU ISLANDS
FORMOSA CO (25:50 100

NAUTICAL MILES
PHILIPPINE SEA 0. 50100 10

KILOMETERS

Ficure 1.—The Ryukyu Islands group.

The principal geographic features of the chain are shown on
the map. Politically the Osumi Gunto or Archipelago north of the
deepest transverse channel, the Tokara Channel, and the Tokara
Gunto south of this channel are parts of Japan. The remaining gun-
tos, or island groups, are now governed by the central independent
Ryukyu-seifu or government established in Naha, the capital, on
Okinawa Island. This operates under the guidance of the United
States Civil Administration with headquarters also in Naha. This

DN
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 365

recently established Ryukyu-seifu replaces the governments of the
four units into which the Ryukyus were divided after the war and
operates directly through the local town or island governments,
There are still United States branch administrative offices established
on Amami-Oshima, Miyako, and Ishigaki Islands.

Okinawa Island is 65 miles long and 2 to 8 miles wide, with pro-
truding peninsulas and intrusive bays here and there. Its postwar
population is about 580,000. Its three “counties,” Kunigami-gun,
Nakagami-gun, and Shimajiri-gun, are units commonly referred to,
being the domains of the independent kings of historic earlier times.
From the narrow neck southward one traverses the rolling hills and
plains, with evidences of the war’s destructiveness on every hand
(pl. 2, lower, and pl. 3, upper). The rocks and soils here are of geo-
logically recent origin, gravels, clays, and limestone, the last often ex-
posed in strikingly rugged ravine sides and jagged knobs protrud-
ing sharply above the level land, these pitted and penetrated by
caves. This limestone is the coral so often referred to in describing
the war terrain, though true coral exists mainly in the reefs which
abundantly line the island’s shores. Because of its less rugged ter-
rain this southern portion is largely under cultivation, or at least
human control, and is dotted with villages, towns, and cities, the
largest, Naha, the capital, with 44,790 population, and Shuri with
20,014 (December 1950). As one goes north from the narrow neck
of the island he leaves the depressing war zone, and his spirits rise
with the increasing height and ruggedness of the hills and the
abundance of vegetation (pl. 8, lower). Here steep, forested moun-
tains occupy most of the land, rising in peaks to over 1,600 feet, ac-
cessible only by trails from the coastal road on the west and the
lesser one on the east. Agriculture is confined to the river mouths,
coastal strips, and lower foothills (pl.4). Nago, with 14,842 postwar
population, is a relatively trim place with hardly a wartrace. Geolog-
ically the mountains are of more ancient limestone and sandstone,
with a few igneous intrusions.

The climate of the Ryukyu chain is oceanic, although dominated in
part by the monsoon winds blowing toward the great Asiatic continent
in summer and from it in winter. The summer temperatures? are
raised above the level one would normally expect at this latitude
through the influence of the Japanese or “kuroshio” (=black) cur-
rent flowing up from the hot South China Sea. The thermometer,
however, seldom reaches into the 90’s, and 96° F. is the highest tem-
perature on record. The discomfort of this climate is due to the com-
bination of monotonous and relatively high temperatures, high hu-
midity, and bright sun. The average annual temperature for Naha

" 2'The following figures are taken from the Civil Affairs Handbook (1).
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

on Okinawa is 72° F., but the mean daily maximum for the hottest
month, July, is 89°, the average for the summer being 81°. The cold-
est ever recorded is 41°, and the winter average is about 62°. In sum-
mer the average humidity runs from 76 to 80 percent, and in winter
the mean minimum is about 73 percent. At Naha the mean annual
rainfall is nearly 83 inches, with the average lowest in December
of about 4.3 inches and the average highest in June of about 10 inches.
More than half the days of each month are classed as rainy. The
most significant factor alleviating this gloomy picture of high heat,
humidity, and rainfall is the sea breeze and drying sun. One can
slosh in mud while blinded by dust. A major factor in the climate is
the periodic typhoons, which in summer and early in fall all too fre-
quently roar up from southern regions and sweep along this chain.
On some islands only one crop of rice a year is planted because a
second one is too likely to be ruined by a typhoon. The raging winds
not only affect the life of the people but are, undoubtedly, one of the
major factors in the natural selection of the flora.

So on June 13 I was established as a civilian botanist under the guid-
ance of the United States Army, which furnished housing, trans-
portation, supplies (other than what I brought), regulations and MP’s
to guide my conduct and to guard my health, medical attention, and,
indirectly, assistants, all of these items being classed by the Army as
“logistic support.” The Forestry Section of the Food and Natural Re-
sources Department of the United States Civil Administration, with
headquarters in Naha, supervised and provided liaison for my opera-
tions. Housing was found in a quonset-hut area in Naha, provided for
certain Army officers and civilians mostly concerned with operation of
the busy port, and food was available in its officers’ mess.

The separation of western and native life in an occupied area was
glaringly evident, and intermingling with the Okinawan peoples and
their life was by no means easy, the language difficulty being para-
mount. It was some days before I was able to meet the Okinawan
botanists, the authors of the Flora, whom I found to be most agreeable
companions and associates both on botanizing trips and in indoor as-
sociated labors. In the course of my work I met many other Ok-
inawans, but these three were my special associates. Mr. Tawada
had just been specially employed by the Okinawan Saion Forest Re-
search Nursery and assigned to work with me. Amano, employed by
the Okinawan equivalent of the Department of Agriculture, joined
us when he could be spared and spent many after-hours with us. Mr.
Sonohara sometimes broke away from teaching in the Nago Agri-
cultural High School halfway up the island to join our forays. As
eager botanists these three cannot be surpassed, and to their whole-
hearted cooperation, extensive knowledge of the flora, and tireless
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 367

labors is due the success of this trip. We were all working together
for a common end, the advancement of botany in the Ryukyu Islands.
Headquarters for our operations and adequate space for our drying
apparatus were generously provided by the Okinawan Government’s
agricultural experiment station in Naha, the Yogi Agricultural
Institute.

Dr. Floyd Werner, of the University of Vermont, the first entomol-
ogist with the SIRI program, was also located here with his Okinawan
associates (pl. 8, upper). We coordinated our operations and traveled
together as a collecting unit, using the same jeep. It may well be
imagined that there was seldom any extra space and that frequently
considerable finagling was necessary to see that the MP’s would not
find more than the legal five persons in our vehicle. Fortunately they
would not have counted the gear. In spite of Werner’s and my almost
complete lack of knowledge of Japanese and the Okinawans’ lack of
English, except for Mr. Tawada who knew enough, plans were made
and operations carried out remarkably smoothly. When in doubt
as to what was going on, a common enough circumstance, we left our-
selves in the hands of our Okinawans—and all went well.

At first we were limited to short trips in daily requisitioned jeeps,
and so we became acquainted with the highly altered vegetation of
war-devastated southern Okinawa. But such plants are integral
parts of any flora; indeed, they are often of more economic signifi-
cance than the more remote native plant associations, which to the
botanists are admittedly much more interesting. When, on July 4,
the Army at some sacrifice finally assigned a jeep to us for unlimited
expeditions, we established headquarters in Nago for a week of botan-
izing in the forested mountains and remote parts of the island. Speci-
mens were sent daily by local buses to attendants at Yogi who kept
the plant driers going day and night. The traditional method of
drying specimens by absorbing their moisture content by means of
blotters or felt driers is quite impossible where high humidity pre-
vails as in Okinawa. Instead, bundles consisting of specimens alter-
nating with corrugated cardboard or corrugated aluminum sheets
were strapped together and suspended vertically over Japanese-made
kerosene lanterns. Heat from the lanterns rose through the corru-
gations, furnishing enough gentle hot air to dry the specimens in one
to several days.

Through July and early August field trips of a week or less alter-
nated with returns to base to recuperate and to care for the specimens
collected. We made trips to the tops of several of the higher moun-
tains, sometimes climbing up the narrow, slippery trails used by wood
cutters in carrying out on their shoulders selected logs of the more

«For details of places botanized, see my paper listed at end of text, reference 12.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

valuable species. Sometimes we pushed our way along abandoned
and overgrown trails, always keeping a wary lookout for new plants
and the lurking “habu,” the poisonous snake for which this island
is too often maligned. Outside of a dead one, crushed by Amano’s
heavy heel before I came puffing up, and a less poisonous “hemihabu”
seen on one of the southern islands, I saw none of these reptiles. I
rather suspect, however, that more than one lay quietly where they
were. The Okinawans at least were always alert to this danger.

One of the best collections was made in the jungle called Taminato-
ugan (pl. 6, upper). This area, running up the side of a mountain to a
limestone precipice, was a protected religious shrine and was left un-
touched by the wood cutters and thus showed the native flora better
than most areas. We collected freely, but I doubt if our scientific col-
lecting was regarded as any transgression of its sanctity. Never to be
forgotten was the trip to another shrine area, Manzamo or Banzamo,
which means “a million people sit down,” referring to the open, park-
like nature of this seaside cliff summit and its open grove of Luchu
Island pines. Here there is a stone monument to an Okinawan poetess,
Onna Nabe, bearing her poem commemorating the visit in ancient
times of the Shuri King to this revered spot :

Nami nu Kwin tumari (Die away the sea;
Kaji nu Kwin timari Be quiet the wind;
Shuyui Tin-janashi I would welcome and bow
Myunshi wugama To the Shuri King.)

But of more significance to a botanist was Manzamo as the original
and only known home, technically called the type locality, of a new
species of Portulaca. On the summit of an almost barren, spray-
dashed limestone cliff, Tawada in 1949 had discovered a plant he
thought represented a new species and had sent specimens to me,
along with a drawing. It was technically described by me as Portu-
laca okinawensis, accompanied by Tawada’s illustration, in April 1951
in a Washington scientific journal (74), the first botannical paper
jointly authored by an Okinawan and an American. On this visit
we supplemented the original collection with more specimens and
photographed in color the diminutive plant and its sweeping outlook
over the East China Sea.

On this same cliff were also collected herbarium specimens and
viable seeds of Aster asa-grayi. This native Ryukyu aster was origi-
nally named Calimeris ciliata by the famous American botanist
Asa Gray, from collections made in “Osumi” > in the notrhern Ryukyus
by a botanist with the United States North Pacific Exploring Expedi-

5 The precise locality is not clear. We may assume Gray’s designation of Osumi refers
to some island in the Osumi Gunto.
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 369

tion, which immediately followed the Perry Expedition that opened
Japan to western trade. When the beloved Japanese botanist Prof.
Tomitaro Makino found it needed a new name, he graciously honored
its first describer.

It would be superfluous here to mention more of the places visited
and the interesting plants collected. The midsummer months, how-
ever, are not the ideal ones for plant collecting, for many species are
through flowering and have not yet developed mature fruits, and
the fall flowering plants are still gathering strength for blossoming
forth. Full flowering and fruiting specimens are those most desirable
for representing the species. However, by August 12 we had assem-
bled nearly 800 collections, or over 2,500 specimens for shipment to
Washington. Further operations here would yield a progressively
decreasing return of new material. On August 18, after a 10-day
delay in finding transportation, Mr. Tawada and I embarked on the
FS-204, an Army supply boat which made a monthly visit to the
scattered United States stations, and the next day went ashore on
remote Iriomote Island, far down the chain.

BOTANIZING IN THE SOUTHERN RYUKYUS

Triomote Shima is about 14 miles wide and 17 miles long. Almost
the entire surface of the island consists of heavily forested mountains
running up to 1,350 feet. The lower courses of several streams are
drowned estuaries lined with mangroves (pl. 10, upper). ‘There are
a few small villages, but no roads and no wheeled vehicles, barring
rusting bulldozers and coal-mine trucks no longer usable for lack of
parts to repair them. The mine, however, which then was being oper-
ated by American interests, boasts a railroad about 2 miles long, which
brings coal to the loading dock. Ships call only occasionally, how-
ever, and the industry is by no means a thriving one. Lumbering has
been carried on, but the last American attempts were given up not
too long ago, and when Tawada and I sought the interior by means
of the logging road, winding up from the farthest point on the Nakara
River which we could reach in a small boat, we found it so badly
washed out that even traversing it on foot was hazardous. ‘The
botanizing, however, was superb, as it was everywhere we went on
this island (pl. 10, lower).

The nisei Japanese Mr. Katz, temporarily in charge of the
American headquarters for the mine, gave me quarters and food and
a room for preparing our specimens. From here we sallied forth
each day on foot or by boat to more distant parts. Tawada was
thoroughly familiar with the region, as he had been a teacher in
Sonai village years ago and knew the best collecting places. Sonai
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

was the most prosperous village I saw in all the Ryukyus. The war
had hardly touched this remote island, and the people, except those
connected with the mine, seemed to be happy and thriving.

Perhaps the most memorable trip we made was the one up the
Urauchi River. We crossed over the day before from our base in
Shira-hama to Sonai, where the local forest office made us welcome
for the night and the local hotel sent steaming Japanese food. Next
day we crossed the flats, climbed a ridge, and dropped down to the
river bank where a boat awaited us. Thence we were skulled up the
river a few miles between heavily forested mountain slopes (pl. 5 lower,
and pl. 10, center) to the lower falls, whence we proceeded on foot
along the gorge to the upper falls, collecting as we went. Time out
was taken for a swim in a pool, the only time I was comfortably cool
in my whole Ryukyu visit.

After each of these trips into the field, hours were spent working
up the notes, improving the specimens, painting them with alcohol
and formalin, and wrapping them tightly in bundles. In this condi-
tion they would keep from decaying until our return to Naha in Oki-
nawa, where they were subsequently dried.

Iriomote is friendly, it is wild, and it is remote. For restful isola-
tion it is ideal. No boats, other than small strange fly-by-night craft
with ancient throbbing diesel engines, called while we were there;
hence nothing could be sent or received, most regrettably mail. Radio
telephone communication, however, was maintained with the United
States Army’s Yaeyama Civil Administration Team’s headquarters
on Ishigaki Island, the next one east of Iriomote. By this means,
Lt. Col. Hazen C. Schouman, in charge of that team, extended Tawada
and me an invitation to come out to sea next day and join his official
inspection trip in the 50-foot police boat to still more remote Yonaguni
Island to the west, the last in the chain and almost within sight of
Taiwan.

Yonaguni Shima is a plateau scarcely 7 miles long and 214 miles
wide, bounded on almost all sides by sheer limestone or sandstone sea
cliffs (pl. 9, upper). There are two small, partly artificial harbors
suitable for small craft. Two peaks rise up above the plateau to 740
and 600 feet, but they bear only poor secondary forests. The island
is well populated and extensively cultivated or grazed. The Amer-
icans recently built for them their first motor roads totaling 9 miles,
thus initiating the motor age in this end-of-the-earth spot. Still more
recently the Americans had broken up with a heavy hand an extensive
and lucrative smuggling trade with Communist China. Hence, there
were no friendly looks for a stray American botanist, and only the
children smiled at me, as they did everywhere I went in the Ryukyus.
Here I felt quite unwelcome. Nevertheless, I was invited to join
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 371

the people’s official welcome to the colonel and his party, where we were
entertained far into the night by speeches, food, and drink, and an
elaborate program of native and Japanese dances.

On Yonaguni, botanizing on the tag end of one day and the whole
of the next yielded a relatively few new plants, but since I was the
first American to collect here, so far as known, we tried to make as
good a collection as we could in this limited time. Fortune attended
this venture, and we returned to Iriomote without mishap or rough
seas. We could have been stranded for days or even weeks, had a
typhoon blown up and held the police boat in the diminutive port.

After a few more days of collecting on Iriomote, my kind host from
the mine operations took us and a load of Okinawans to Ishigaki Is-
land in an ancient LOM, a relic of that great fleet of shallow-draft
landing ships which proved so important and serviceable in the war.
Here Colonel Schouman and his staff graciously provided all we
needed, especially a jeep, for six more days of collecting. Here were
roads reaching almost everywhere, and again we sallied forth on rub-
ber tires as on Okinawa.

Ishigaki Island is in rather striking contrast to the islands visited
to the west. It is about 8 miles in diameter, with a long, slender
peninsula extending from the eastern shore northward, and shorter
and stubbier peninsulas on the northwest corner and upper western
side. The lower half or more of the island is a highly cultivated
rolling plain, largely of raised limestone with much evidence of hav- »
ing once included coral reefs. Heavy forested mountains, rising up
to about 1,700 feet, stretch across the northern part, dropping down
almost to the water’s edge on the farther side. The mountains are
largely of igneous Paleozoic rocks overlooking the plains of younger
gravels, sandstones, shales, and limestones. The shores of Ishigaki
are generally low and reef-lined. There is no harbor, but the coral
reef on the south runs far out to sea, partially protecting the open,
shallow roadstead off Ishigaki City, where all but the smallest ships
must cast anchor. On threat of a typhoon, they take shelter in
Funauki Bay, one of the deep, protected estuaries on the far side of
Iriomote Island within sight to the west. Agriculture here is some-
what different. Farmers more often live in the city and ride out
daily on horseback or springless carts to work their fields of sweet-
potatoes, rice (both upland and wetland), sugarcane, and other crops.
Fresh pineapples were seen and enjoyed. Many other crops are
raised, and improved farming is encouraged by a thriving agri-
cultural research station, an agricultural high school, and other
organizations.

The city of Ishigaki, on the broad, flat southern coast, is neat and
-laid out on an unusually regular pattern of streets. These are almost
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

solidly lined with walls built of neatly arranged coral heads or boul-
ders from the shore or offshore reefs, or of trimmed blocks of sur-
prisingly easily cut limestone from inland quarries. It boasts good
stores, government buildings, schools, and a famous and conspicuous
weather station with a long record of uninterrupted service.

In the 6 days of collecting there, we touched at least the major
spots, the east, west, and southern coasts, the northwest peninsula
with the village of Kabira, carefully studied by the ethnologist Dr.
Allan Smith while in special residence there, and points en route.
We climbed the central mountain (pl. 9, lower), though our guide, a
local forester, missed the overgrown trail to the highest peak and we
viewed our goal from a no less botanically satisfactory, but shghtly
lower, outlying knob. Of special interest was the work of the forest
office, which kindly provided space for our work and housing for Mr.
Tawada. The director proudly showed us lumbering operations,
forest control, promising forest nursery stock, and experimental plan-
tations, especially unique stands of Podocarpus marcophyllus, and of
other species in an abandoned stream bed.

All these islands are beautiful, but the beauty of Ishigaki stands out
most vividly in my memory, recalled often with the aid of my color
photos. From an eminence, Kara-dake (pl. 9, center), close to the
eastern shore, scenes of incomparable beauty and color stretched out
in all directions. The deep blue of the open sea, separated by a
white surf line from the varied light greens, whites, and yellows of
the coral lagoons and shore; the rich yellowish greens and browns
of the wind-rippled grass cover on the rounded hills marked off by
narrow stream valleys studded with rice paddies, sparkling in the
lowering sun; the dark forested mountains to the northwest like a
great backdrop (pl. 9, lower) ; and beyond and above the great billow-
ing clouds reaching up to the blue of the sky—such memories cause
others, well forgotten, to fade away. Equally vivid was our depart-
ing view of Ishigaki Island, from the little pulsing Wakaba Maru, as
we skirted its northern coast heading homeward on September 7. The
sea was glassy, absorbing and enriching the intense azure of the sky,
and throwing it back from the smooth curve of the foam-flecked bow
wave. Beyond this curve the sea took up the greens of the shore from
the dark shadows in the mountain forest to the bright yellow-greens
of the two rounded and suggestive knobs at Kabira. Above were
again the billowing clouds, so ever-present in the Tropics. Indeed,
plant collecting is not all sweat and toil and dull, dead, enigmatic,
pressed specimens for musty museum cases.

The Wakaba Maru dropped anchor at Miyako Island, and again I
was a grateful guest at the United States Army’s establishment. So
highly cultivated is Miyako and so devoid of almost any habitats for
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 373

native plants except roadsides and seashores that it has little attrac-
tion for a roving botanist. It should be one’s first rather than his
last island. But yet on our two little forays, additional species of
Okinawan ° plants were found which were not yet represented in our
collections, and others received better representation. We stopped
briefly at an agricultural school and passed the gaunt spectre that
once was a modern sugar refinery, which, if spared, would have been
an invaluable factor in postwar rehabilitation of the local economy.
Nearby, a blindfolded horse went round and round, operating an
ancient, primitive sugar press, and in crude vats unrefined sugar
crystallized out of the frothing juice.

On September 10 we returned to Naha to dry our southern-gathered
specimens and to pull together the loose ends before departure. After
a farewell Japanese dinner in a neat little upstairs restaurant, we
unceremoniously, as seems to be the custom there, said our farewells—
one can’t be effusive or highly selective of sensitive words when only
the simplest are understood and those unaided by grammar and
rhetoric. One can only hope that one’s affection and respect are
transmitted by other than linguistic means.

Long before daylight on September 19, my plane again rose into
the air, swung roaring over sleeping Naha, and was soon lost in
the clouds that never opened till we dropped into the rain below
them, and looked again on breath-takingly beautiful Japan, neat,
clean, relatively prosperous, and completely ordered, at least so it
seemed in contrast to the struggling Ryukyus. After further visits
with Japanese botanists, attendance as the only foreign guest at
the seventeenth annual meeting of the Botanical Society of Japan,
and some hours of research in the herbarium of the University of
Tokyo, I was off for home via Wake Island, Hawaii, Travis Air
Force Base in California, Oakland, San Francisco, and Chicago—and
arrived in Washington late on September 30, 4 months to a day from
my take-off.

RESULTS OF THE EXPEDITION

About 1,500 collections, totaling over 6,000 specimens, were flown
back to the United States by Army cargo plane. When identified, the
first set of these specimens will be deposited in the United States
National Herbarium under the Smithsonian Institution, where it will
remain along with other Ryukyu specimens to support in part the
Flora of Okinawa. One set will go to Japan for study by specialists
there, who will report their determinations. Another will go to the
Bernice P. Bishop Museum in Honolulu, the main center for many
Pacific studies and for deposit of scientific collections made on the

*For usage of the name “Okinawa,” see annotation in the bibliography, reference 8.
374 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

many expeditions which the Pacific Science Board is sponsoring.
Still another set will be laid aside for return eventually to the Uni-
versity of the Ryukyus on Shuri Hill, the site of the well-known ancient
Shuri Castle, traditional home of former Okinawa kings. Here it
will be available to foresters, agriculturists, teachers, and students
of Ryukyu plants engaged in further botanical study. The still re-
maining specimens will be be sent to various other institutions in
America or Europe on an exchange basis. Thus are herbarium col-
lections built up.

There remains the task of critically identifying the specimens
gathered on the 1951 SIRI program along with reexamination of
other collections made by Okinawan botanists both before and after
this expedition, various servicemen’s collections now in the United
States National Herbarium, and the collections by Charles Wright
made on the United States Exploring Expedition (the Ringgold and
Rodgers expedition), which immediately followed the Perry Expedi-
tion, and those gathered by E. H. Wilson in 1917 for the Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University (15). In addition, and as a re-
sult of making the acquaintance of Japanese botanists and institu-
tions, duplicates of important collections which they have made in
earlier years in the Ryukyus have been received. Perhaps the Japa-
nese specialists will reexamine other collections in Japan while study-
ing the SIRI specimens sent to them. Thus all will aid in document-
ing the Flora of Okinawa.

This critical examination of herbarium material may seem some-
what remote from the needs of administrators engaged in alleviating
distressing economic conditions. However, when perfected, this Flora
of Okinawa will give foresters knowledge of the native and intro-
duced trees that occur there. It has already been invaluable in pre-
paring a requested booklet, “Important Trees of the Ryukyu Islands”
(13). Agriculturists will know what weeds there are which may be-
come obnoxious among their crops or act as alternate hosts for crop-
destroying insects. Administrators will be better able to draw up
quarantine laws for the exclusion of harmful plants and animals, some
of which have already arrived unimpeded and are threatening this
ever-burdened economy. Landscapers and soil conservationists will
know what plants are available for their use in covering and enriching
Lared and sterile fields, or for shading buildings and roadsides. It
may help grazing projects or airfield construction in finding native
grasses for their varied needs or to know which ones are pests and
should be eradicated before they become too well established. Those
developing measures for control of insects carrying human diseases
must know the proper names of the plants that harbor these pests.
Indeed, many are the practical questions that can be answered through
the aid of a regional flora.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.— Walker PLATE 1

OKINAWAN BOTANISTS

Upper: Time out for lunch while botanizing on Nago-Dake. Left, Mr. Amano; right,
Mr. Sonohara.

Lower: Mr. Tawada, with plant press and bundle of specimens, and a habu stick to deal
with the dreaded poisonous snake. Photograph by Floyd Werner.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 2

/
j

Wh y YU TY iI 5) |
AML

etter

Seiad) ng

aw e.

NEW CULTURE ON RUINS OF THE OLD

Upper: The administration building of the postwar-established University of the Ryukyus,
built on the site of the throne room of ancient Shuri Castle, the war-destroyed famous
reminder of the early independent Okinawan kings. Photograph by Harold Coolidge.

- Lower: The approach to an ancient shrine on this hill in Naha overlooking the sea is all that
survived the war.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 3

FARMS AND SUGARCANE

Upper: Treeless southern Okinawa, the scene of terrific World War II battles, is now mostly
farm land, broken up into diminutive fields.

Lower: Stalks of sugarcane, the third most important crop, being offered for sale by farm
women on the annual festival day in memory of the honored family ancestors. Photo-

graphs by Orin A. Hills.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 4

as D
I sil Dit

RICE AND SWEETPOTATOES

Upper: The two principal crops of the Ryukyus; rice, in the irrigable lowland paddy fields,
and sweetpotatoes, on the terraced slopes extending up to woodland beyond.

Lower: Bundling rice seedlings, densely grown in meticulously prepared seed beds, prepara-
tory to transplanting into flooded paddy fields shown beyond. Photograph by Delos Flint.
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker

‘WIT sojpaq Aq ydessoj0yq + ‘“speay Jo syoeq ueUINY UO sUIeUNOW asey WOIZ pallies ae Jen} pue JaquIty, 1431
“SPULIsT BSI JO SUIvJUNOUT a[qissadd¥ sso] “JOYSIY 941 JOAOS a1oY UMOYS DIOWOL] Jo asoyi ayI] ‘s1Sas0F Jeordosyqns udaIBIEAa ‘paava|-proiq ‘asuaq, :1f37

qan4 GNv Sisayo4

: _
Da Pe Saige yey

4

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 6

FOREST AND SWAMP PLANTS

Upper: Okinawan botanists Sonohara and Tawada inspect an ancient strangling fig or
banyan, whose basket roots enveloped and choked its host and whose aerial roots grew
into supporting props.

Lower: The nipa palm was discovered in a mangrove swamp on Iriomote Island, its most
northerly known occurrence.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 7

kas

x

SY,

PINES AND CYCADS

Upper: The Luchu Island pine, which becomes in age a characteristic flat-topped tree of
the open lower lands. Photograph by Delos Flint.

Lower: The stiff-fronded dark green palmlike sago cycad, Cycas revoluta, common in the
grasslands, often among scattered pines. Photograph by R. W. Simonson.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 8

GRASSES IN OKINAWA

-Upper: An entomologist collects among the coarse grasses so abundant in the war-disturbed
areas.

Lower: In the fall the silvery plumes of the coarse grass, Miscanthus floridulus, dominate the
landscape. Dense evergreen forest in background. Photograph by W. G. Urseny.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 9

HEADLANDS AND GRASSLANDS
Upper: The bare-topped eastern headland of small Yonaguni Island, |
horses, goats, and cattle graze.
Center: The grassy dome of Kara-dake on Ishigaki,
graph in the lower figure was taken.

Lower: Yellow-green grassy pastures cut by shining paddy fields in the runlets stretch awa

ast in the chain, where

vantage point from which the photo-

toward the dark, he

avily forested backdrop of mountains rising to Omoto-dake, 1,706
feet high,
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Walker PLATE 10

MAS SON,

TIDAL ESTUARY VEGETATION ON IRIOMOTE

Upper: Pandanus or screw pine lines the established near shore, while a mangrove grows
out over the tidal mud from the shore beyond.

Center: A valued timber tree, Heritiera littoralis, now rare, grows just beyond the mangrove

__ trees along the tidal Urauchi River bank.

Lower: 'Tawada takes a specimen from a mangrove shrub, Avicennia marina, whose breathing
roots rise fingerlike through the sand from long, radiating, buried roots.
ae ca A TE Bln

BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 375

REVIEW OF THE VEGETATION

Floristically, Okinawa Island is divisible into the southern war-
disturbed and the northern undisturbed parts. The southern end,
especially below the narrowest neck of the island, has an unkempt, bar-
ren appearance due in the first place to the paucity of trees, the bar-
renness seemingly only augmented by the few scattered remains of
the prewar trees. Those that the Japanese army did not use in build-
ing defenses, the Americans blew down to eliminate snipers. En-
couraging headway, however, has been made in planting trees, and
the Saion Forest Nursery gives much promise of a better woody vege-
tation in the near future. In the second place, the barrenness is aug-
mented by the unkempt aspect of the abundant cover of tall, coarse
bunch-grass, mostly Miscanthus floridulus. In the fall, however, this
grass adds a silvery sheen to the landscape, for then it bears abundant
large white plumes on stalks higher than one’s head (pl. 8, lower).
Other common coarse grasses are cogon grass, /mperata cylindrica
var. major, and Saccharum spontaneum,’ also with whitish inflores-
cences. The abundant thick-stemmed stiff-leaved, dark-green, palm-
like cycads, Cycas revoluta, (pl. 7, lower), are characteristic features of
the landscape, growing on the shores, hills, limestone knobs, and edges
of cultivated fields. Where the battle eddied around a spot, there
might remain characteristic open stands of the Luchu Island
pine (pl. 7) with intermingling cyads and coarse grasses. Cur-
rently many of these pines are dying from the depredations of an in-
sect pest. The rough limestone knobs and cliffs that jut out here and
there are usually clothed in shrubs and scraggly trees. Among them
especially are various species of banyan, the most common being Ficus
retusa, which can be anything from an almost climbing vine or at least
a clinging shrub on the bare face of a rock to a broad and venerable tree
with huge spreading branches hoary with hanging aerial roots (pl. 6,
upper). The appearance of barrenness is further augmented by the
American installations built on great bulldozed and leveled areas, once
hills and valleys covered with grass, trees, or cultivated fields. Oki-
nawan Villages are nearly always hidden in abundant verdure, partly
for the comforting shade, partly for typhoon protection, and perhaps
partly because the principle of laissez-faire lets nature make them so.
It is too soon to predict with confidence what nature will do to the
American installations, but if the wet weed field I saw green with new
verdure three weeks after it was bulldozed into barrenness is any indi-
cation, perhaps even southern Okinawa will be green again through-
out. Already one sees along the roads and among the houses many
planted feathery casuarinas (Casuarina equisetifolia) and acacias
(Acacia confusa) and other introduced ornamental trees.

‘Improperly called kunai grass in American wartime publications.
236639—53———25
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

On going north one’s spirits rise as he meets the first aggregation
of large, untouched, flat-topped Luchu Island pines. From then on
the vegetation lends a more peaceful and pleasing aspect. Less weedy
thickets line the highway, and the villages are better hidden among
protecting trees. Most striking among the cultivated trees in almost
every village is the “fukugi,” Garcinia spicata, a dark-green, thick-
leaved introduction from southern Asia, its shape reminding western-
ers of the lombardy poplar. It grows in close rows along the streets or
property lines, and, because of its slow growth, one can guess from the
size of its “fukugi” trees the age of a village.

The road north on either side of the island follows the shore closely,
for inland the hills and mountains become ever more rugged. Hence,
one sees many littoral trees and shrubs, mostly unfamiliar to those of
continental temperate climates. Common among them are: Her-
nandia sonora (Hernandia ovigera) (Hernandiaceae) ; “wild bean,”
Pongamia pinnata (Leguminosae) ; sea hibiscus, Hibiscus tiliaceus,
and Portia tree, Thespesia populnea (Malvaceae) ; Alexandrian lau-
rel, Calophyllum inophyllum (Guttiferae) ; Indian almond, 7'ermi-
nalia catappa (Combretaceae) ; Cerbera manghas and Lactaria twasa-
kiana (Apocynaceae); velvet-leaf tree, Messerschmidia argentea
(Boraginaceae) ; Premna obtusifolia (Verbenaceae) ; Guettarda spe-
ciosa (Rubiaceae) ; Scaevola frutescens (Goodeniaceae) ; and thatch
screwpine, Pandanus tectorius var. liukiuensis. Perhaps the last is the
most striking and characteristic tree or shrub of the shores (pl. 10,
upper) and the higher wastes, and a very useful plant for thatch, hat-
weaving materials, and other products. But its most important func-
tions is to protect the areas behind it from the sea and wind.

Near Gesashi village on the east coast of Okinawa above the mid-
dle, we visited a typical mangrove swamp where a stream flowed into
a bay. There on the exposed muddy tidal flat stood the character-
istic mangrove tree, Rhizophora mucronata, on its conspicuous and
somewhat ridiculous stilt or prop roots. Its associates were the red-
flowered Bruguiera conjugata and the white-flowered Kandelia candel.
Other typical mangrove associates were there, all properly zoned
toward the higher and drier land. Mangrove swamps, however,
were better developed and more significant in the southern islands
(pl. 10, upper and lower).

All the land that can be cultivated is, of course, given over to crops.
From the beach sands to far up on the mountains are cultivated
fields (pl. 4). Where rice can be irrigated by gravity, that is the
staple crop. But the largest crop is the sweetpotato, grown every-
where on level ground and on terraced hillsides, with grassy ridges
between the sloping fields, carefully protected from erosion by well-
tended vegetation, which often included the characteristic cycad.
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 377

Formerly, at least, sugarcane (pl. 38, lower) was the third principal
crop, grown only in the south, but the former sugar mills and the
market for the sugar produced are only now being restored. Although
there are many other crops, one is impressed by the dependence on
sweetpotatoes. This makes more serious the problem of combating
the recently introduced and seriously threatening sweetpotato weevil
and the sweet potato blight. When not cultivated, the cleared slopes
are planted, or at least often grow up in pines or other second-growth
forest trees. All are sources of fuel, and one is impressed by the im-
portant industry in the northern villages of hauling down from the
hills poles and small trees, cutting and splitting them into fuel size,
and stacking the wood on the roadsides, whence trucks may carry
it to the larger towns. This activity makes serious inroads on the
forests wherever they can be reached. Among the first invaders of
these cleared lands are, of course, various shrubs and weedy trees,
among them, perhaps, being Z’rema orientalis with banyans following
after, usually beginning as epiphytes and finally strangling and re-
placing the host trees. Sometimes camphor trees (Cinnamomum
camphora) or other useful species are planted. In the far north the
narrow, steep ravines filled with the light-green spreading leaves
of the fiber banana are a striking feature. The slopes between and
the headlands are spotted with dark-green cycads.

Turning now to the higher slopes and more remote mountain peaks,
one finds an almost unbroken tropical evergreen jungle composed of
a great variety of trees, with understories of lesser trees, shrubs, and
vines. Epiphytes are not specially numerous, as in many tropical
jungles, but the ground is hidden under a well-developed herbaceous
cover. The most valuable trees for man’s uses are various oaks,
Quercus, Lithocarpus; chestnut, Castanopsis lutchuensis y and several
laurels (Lauraceae), such as Machilus thunbergii, M. longifolia, Cin-
namomum japonicum, C. loureirii, and Actinodaphne lancifolia.
Equally sought after for timber are members of the tea family
(Theaceae) , such as Adinandra ryukyuensis, Camellia miyagii, C leyera
japonica, Shima liukiuensis, Ternstroemia gymnanthera, and Tut-
cheria virgata, and members of the persimmon genus (Diospyros)
in the ebony family (Ebenaceae). A characteristic, easily recognized
tree is the native palm Arenga englert. Indeed, these forests, which
the Japanese botanists characterize as laurisilvae, are rich in species.
Now and then we saw in the northern mountains remnants of planta-
tions of the Japanese cedar, or sugi, Cryptomeria japonica, but this,
probably the most valuable of all trees in Japan, is not indigenous
in the Ryukyus except in the northern islands, where it forms natural
forests at high elevations, notably on Yakushima. The central and
' southern Ryukyus apparently lack sufficiently high, cool elevations
378 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

for both sugi and the hinoki or false Japanese cedar, Chamaecyparis
obtusa, also tried in plantations here.

Another important group of native forest trees, especially high on
the mountains, is the podocarps, Podocarpus macrophyllus and P.
nagi. Chiefly above where these grow one usually finds a pure stand
of bamboo forming an extensive zone or a completely capping, almost
impenetrable thicket. We were grateful that we could follow the tim-
ber-cutters’ trails kept open through these thickets and jungles by
constant use. Every little way we would find a layer of bark and
chips, marking where a tree had been cut, trimmed, and roughly
squared. From there it had been carried on the cutter’s shoulder,
supported by the handle of his ax across his other shoulder, on down
the mountainside. His wife might carry down easily an apparently
staggering load of branches for fuel (pl. 5, right). This process of
selective cutting lets the forest grow continuously but results in its
steady deterioration through removal of the more valuable trees.

Everywhere in these forests there are ferns, ranging from large tree
ferns, Cyathea fauriet and species of Alsophila, to the tiny delicate,
filmy ferns, Hymenophyllum and Trichomanes, growing in the murky
forest on wet soil or clinging to shaded tree trunks. Our presses were
loaded with these varied spore producers. There were mosses, too,
but we had to neglect these lowly forms in order to concentrate on the
higher plants.

Grasses, of course, were less significant in the forests than in the
open but occurred everywhere, and we collected examples of many
species. Next to the coarse grasses already mentioned, in respect to
interest, however, rather than conspicuousness, come the several species
of Zoysia, a low, thick-growing, somewhat wiry grass of waste fields,
often found on high limestone headlands, where it cannot escape in
times of storm being drenched with saline spray. It forms a good du-
rable turf and is so desirable for planting on sterile soils at new housing
areas that it is being removed from some natural areas, such as Ban-
zamo, with detrimental effects. Members of this genus are frequently
sought for golf courses in America and may play an important part in
covering airfields between the runways, but it seems that better tech-
niques for its cultivation need to be developed. Perhaps our sending
back live samples to the U. S. Department of Agriculture may help this
cause. Another ground cover is Lepturus repens, found in thick stands
on the upper tidal shores or mud flats south of Naha and elsewhere.
Along with Sporobolus virginicus it performs the valuable role in
many parts of the world of helping reclaim land from the sea. Bam-
boos, contrary to expectation in this Far Eastern land, seem to play
a relatively small role in its economy. In Okinawa these woody
grasses were seen only here and there, except for the high mountain
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 379

zone already mentioned, appearing to supply solely the limited local
needs, especially materials for thatching houses and weaving baskets.
Only on the island of Yonaguni were they found growing commercial-
ly, an extensive plantation there covering a large area on the side of
a ridge, whence they are exported. The paucity of domestic animals
in Okinawa seemed out of harmony with the apparent potentiality
for grazing. Perhaps this is a temporary postwar condition, related
also to the shortage of fencing materials. But there seem to be plenty
of forage grasses, only awaiting further agronomical study to initiate
their beneficial use, though of course they are soil binders wherever
they grow. It was noticeable after the war that the weedy grass
Echinochloa invaded the uncultivated ricefields in great quantity and
would have furnished food for domestic animals had any been left to
eat it.

References have already been made to the vegetation of the southern
islands in connection with the account of our collecting activities.
The vegetation there is largely the same as on Okinawa, with but
minor variations. The agriculture differs a little. For example,
though both rice and sweetpotatoes are grown on Yonaguni Island,
the purposes are different. The people are said to eat the rice and
feed the sweetpotatoes to the pigs, whereas on Iriomote they are said to
eat the sweetpotatoes and export the rice for needed cash. In Yona-
guni we saw much grazing, especially above certain sea cliffs. The
animals—eattle, horses, and goats—are confined by thorny hedges of
Pandanus, American agave, and other plants with repelling spines.

On Iriomote we found many mangrove swamps along the margins
of the estuaries (pl. 10, upper). These reach out into the water and
by their impeding roots cause the silt to settle. On the landward
side of these mangrove swamps may come Pandanus and other plants.
These further stabilize and build up alluvial flats at the heads and
margins of these estuaries. Then man clears the forest and grows
rice and other crops. From our headquarters in Shira-hama each
morning we watched the people paddle in narrow canoes or row in
larger boats upstream to till their fields and return at night with their
harvest. One mangrove swamp we visited was the sandy bottom of
a stream flowing into the sea. There we found, besides the mangrove
plants already mentioned, the characteristic shrub Avicennia marina
(Verbenaceae) (pl. 10, lower) sending out long underground stems
from which arise fingerlike aerial breathing roots, reminiscent of the
cypress knees of our southern swamps. There were also a semiclimb-
ing vine in low dense clumps, Dalbergia candenatensis (Leguminosae) ,
the mangrove fern Acrostichum aureum, and the medium-sized,
widespread, more or less poisonous tree Hacoecaria agallocha (Euphor-
- biaceae). Our most exciting mangrove discovery, however, was the
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

nipa palm, Vipa fruticosa, deep in a many-channeled swamp at the
head of Hinai Bay on the north side of the island (pl. 6, lower). This
is its most northerly known occurrence. It has not been previously
recorded from the Ryukyus, but, as later learned, Japanese botanists
knew of its presence on another small island just south of Iriomote.
It is not known in Formosa. Perhaps these Ryukyu occurrences
arose from drift from the Philippines carried in the Japan Current,
which does not touch Formosa.

On the trip up the Urauchi River we collected or noted many man-
groves along the shore with other trees commonly associated with
them, especially Heritiera littoralis (Sterculiaceae) (pl. 10, center),
a striking, widespread, light-barked tree, so much sought for timber
and so easily reached by boat that it is rather scarce today, and Bar-
ringtonia racemosa (Barringtoniaceae), whose fallen white corollas
with abundant long stamens floated past us on the ebbing tide. Here
we found a single plant of pandanus with extra large and vicious
thorns, growing along a shore thick with normally spiny pandanus
plants. Elsewhere on this island we found a pandanus plant with no
thorns at all except at the bases of the terminal delicate white leaves,
which were still unopened and unexposed to the light. Thus the vari-
ability in this widespread littoral plant gives problems for future
taxonomists and perhaps material for a wide range of economic uses.
As we progressed farther up this stream the mangroves dropped out
and the drier-land woody vegetation overhung the banks, such as
banyans with buttressed bases; the Chinaberry or pride-of-India,
Melia azedarach (Meliaceae), probably brought in and planted at some
settler’s hut and now escaped and growing in more open places;
Macaranga tanarius (Euphorbiaceae) ; Dendropanax iriomotensis (or
Textoria iriomotensis) and Sheflera octophylla (or Agalma lutchu-
ense, as it has been called by Japanese botanists) (Araliaceae) ;
tree ferns; the Japanese snowbell, Styraa japonica (Styracaceae) ;
the native palm Arenga engleri; and even a red-flowered rhododen-
dron, Rhododendron ertocarpum (Ericaceae), still in bloom though it
was mid-August.

As in Okinawa, the most significant plants of Iriomote are those
that comprise the widespread dense evergreen forests, especially mem-
bers of the oaks, the laurel, the tea, and the ebony families (pl. 5,
left). These have been given considerable attention by foresters
and lumbermen. The United States Army has prepared sets of
wood samples from timbers cut in these forests during lumbering
operations soon after the war’s end.

Of Ishigaki Island little more need be said. A striking contrast
to the coarse, unkempt bunch grass (A/iscanthus floridulus) covering
hills of southern Okinawa was the smooth grassy appearance of the
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 381

hills and valleys of the eastern side of this island (pl. 9, center and
lower). The grass, though mixed, seemed predominantly cogon grass
(Imperata cylindrica var. major) , though it was not then (early Sep-
tember) in bloom. It was reported that Okinawa before the war
bore the same aspect. Thus it seems that A/éscanthus is a first invader
of disturbed areas and that the churned-up battlefields gave it a
start in Okinawa. We know the vegetation will change little by
little. But will fields of Jmperata cylindrica and other more gentle-
appearing grasses replace this rank growth in the course of suc-
cession and Okinawa take on the beauty of Ishigaki? Only time will
tell. It may, however, be said, with no element of doubt, that the
Ryukyus are full of interesting plant problems and ever will be.

THE FUTURE

The 1951 SIRI botanical program was primarily concerned with
determining the species of plants which occur in the Ryukyus. The
task is not yet complete, but we are now in a better position to deal
with the perhaps more glaringly urgent problems of economic botany
in these islands. Likewise the ecological study of the various plant
formations, especially of the economically productive forests and graz-
able grasslands, can now be undertaken with more promise of scientific
accuracy and completeness, because we know better the plants of
which these formations are composed. Programs for plant intro-
duction (7) and for establishing plant quarantine laws should mate-
rially benefit from the Flora of Okinawa and from the steadily increas-
ing reference collection of plant specimens that will support a fu-
ture revision of this work. It is hoped that from the Flora of Okinawa
by the three Okinawans there may come not only works by westerners,
such as the “Important Trees of the Ryukyu Islands” now in press
(73), but also many more publications by Okinawans (8, 9) and
Japanese, on other vital subjects, such as the grasses, the weeds, the
shrubs, the ferns, and many others.

SELECTED REFERENCES

(1) ANONYMOUS.
1944, Civil affairs handbook, Ryukyu (Loochoo) Islands... Office of
the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, pp. i-xiv,
figs. 1-52.
Comprehensive diverse information compiled in preparation for
the invasion ; includes a bibliography.
(2) BurcHaM, LEE T.
1948. Observations on the grass flora of certain Pacific Islands. Contr.
U. 8S. Nat. Herb., vol. 30, pt. 2, pp. 405-447, pls. 1-7, figs. 1-4.

Includes notes on Okinawa recorded during the author’s stay with
the army of occupation.
382
(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Gray, ASA.

1856. Account of the botanical specimens. In Narrative of the ex-
pedition of an American squadron to the China Sea and Japan,
performed in the years 1852, 1853, and 1854, under the com-
mand of Commodore M. C. Perry, United States Navy, by order
of the Government of the United States, vol. 2, pp. 305-332.

Merritt, ELMER D., and WALKER, EcBert H.

1938. A bibliography of eastern Asiatic botany. Arnold Arboretum,
pp. i-xlii, 1-719, 2 maps.
Through the index, p. 619, many botanical references to the

Ryukyus can be found. The second author is preparing a supplement
that will eventually bring this up to date.

MryosHI, MANABU.
1905-1906. Vegetation of Luchu. I and II, in his Atlas of Japanese
vegetation. Set III (1905), pp. 1-8, 1-11, pls. 16-24; Set VI
(1906), pp. 1-4, 1-5, pls. 41-46.

A set of photographs of vegetation with text in English and
Japanese.

NewMan, MArsHALL T., and Ene, Ransom L.
1948. The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal. Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst. for 1947, pp. 379-405, pls. 1-5, figs. 1, 2.

NuttTonson, M. Y.

1952. Ecological crop geography and field practices of the Ryukyu
Islands, natural vegetation of the Ryukyus and agroclimatic
analogues in the northern hemisphere. American Institute of
Crop Ecology, pp. 1-106, figs. 1-14, 1 folded table.

SonoHaRA, SAKUYA; TAWADA, SHINJUN; and AMANO, TETSUWO.
1952. Flora of Okinawa. Okinawa shokubutsushi; an enumeration of
the plants of Okinawa and Sakishima Archipelago in the Ryukyu
Islands, 237-+-28-++50 pp., pl. 1. Mimeographed.
A preliminary treatment with an introduction. Issued by the
United States Civil Administration of the Ryukyus. This covers the
prewar political unit Okinawa-ken or prefecture comprising all the

southern Ryukyus. It may be obtained from the United States Army
through the auspices of the present writer.

TAWADA, SHINJUN.
1931. Okinawa yakuyo shokubutsu yakuk6. [Medicinal uses of Okinawa
pharmaceutical plants.], Ist ed., 205+ pp., pls. 1-18. (2d ed.,
1951, 178+ pp., pls. 1-18.)
A mimeographed work in Japanese with Latin names systematically
arranged.
U. S. Crvin ADMINISTRATION OF THE RYUKYUS.
1952. Ryukyu Islands; preliminary notes on the use, distribution and
adaptability of native and introduced species. Spec. Bull. (U.S.
Civil Adm. Ryukyu Is.), No. 1, pp. 1-45, 5 maps.

VARNEY, RICHARD M.
Forestry in the Ryukyus. (In press.)

WALKER, EGBEERT H.
1952. A botanical mission to Okinawa and the southern Ryukyus. Asa
Gray Bull., n. s., vol. 1, pp. 225-244, figs. 1-9.
BOTANIZING WITH THE OKINAWANS—WALKER 383

(18) WALKER, EcBert H.
- Important trees of the Ryukyu Islands. 207 figs. (In press.
Being published by the U. S. Civil Administration of the
Ryukyus. )
(14) Waxer, Eopert H., and Tawapa, SHINJUN.
1951. A new species of Portulaca from Okinawa: Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 41, No. 4, pp. 188-189, 1 fig.
(15) Witson, E. H.
1920. The Liukiu Islands and their ligneous vegetation. Journ. Arnold
Arb., vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 171-186, Feb. 23.

A general account and enumeration of the author’s collection in 1917.
- aa fe Oy tiie: AE skied
ye ie 40" HONG Piha i

sad thay

i™%
|

‘ - - ‘
— £ 7 ~ 7 : ‘-
‘= a oe . ‘

cans
Reteshivav .cigel,

pus 7 pat *

- (ras i
<a ' ae - ae ae
: * ae hn ae mir: Bi s i,
btoatA omet. Satie ro wgee pep
~— wil > Ba te ' ie joa 3
en ry array : a me, se of BEF A MAE
"et oF wolgsetlao e en ’ ft nd he sik salty
Pricriehecnadanediy repent rt Fes
= = - em - ants - Y arer. - “2 “i oA
! - rs ae : 4 2 i
(less >: a a ae F Ti Wie BAEC : vit al , py . ee 7? :
f | eras us tae ry i iwis + tt A, RRs sta tte oom
*h "El ‘ . :

‘7 bo. pry
ie 7 " i
hea “
ite St
ie " 6 ; '
+ ee a) 3 ’ ' m ‘
— / y hi
i) Pi
| ‘
|
ts ; :
nie Bi
i} ¢
Ve sg "ioe | an
f re
4 4
Dad te
A '
ee
z a wuld
‘ , ‘i a ¥ - 7
oe. oe 7
a ros ad gti
i. Fe Le a ‘ 1% ll Tite &
Uinetat bai, me girs ete
cpthined 7 i] ‘tes
ut Vin fre dent wyitet ~ ay
i
. f ?
F i
M ' ‘7 | "
tite!
a c
:
’
’
o ,
Liss
\ Nah fee on J
rp

Bromeliad Malaria

By Lyman B. SmitH

Department of Botany, U. S. National Museum

[With 2 plates]

Mataria is an extremely complex disease, controlled by a series of
variables. The first variable is the protozoan Plasmodium, which is
the cause of malaria. This organism has a life cycle alternating be-
tween some species of vetebrate animal and a mosquito. It consists
of several species, four of which occur in man. These four differ in
their relation to climate as well as in the symptoms that they produce
and in their response to treatment. Since they hardly ever produce
immunity beyond one of their numerous regional strains, the strictly
clinical problem is excessively complex in itself.

The anopheline mosquitoes, which carry human malaria, are a
greater variable, with numerous species differing widely in their habits
and relation to environment. The usual method of controlling malaria
is by elimination of the mosquito carrier, but first the species involved
must be identified, since they vary greatly in habitat, and it is im-
practical, if not impossible, to kill all the mosquitoes. For instance
some mosquitoes enter houses freely and can be dealt with by DDT
(dichlor diphenyl trichlorethane) in the adult stage, while others bite
only out of doors and must be killed as larvae. The investigator must
also consider three other factors in looking for a mosquito that is a
carrier: anthropophily or its taste for man, its numbers, and its sus-
ceptibility to malaria (Rachou and Ferreira, 1947), the final proof
being the discovery of the malaria organism in mosquitoes of the
suspected species.

All mosquitoes are alike in spending their larval stage in the water,
and in many instances they have been controlled by draining swampy
areas and by oiling small bodies of water or adding fish to them. How-
ever, the mosquitoes of the subgenus (erteszia breed in bodies of wa-
ter too numerous and inaccessible for the usual control technique.
They have adapted themselves to development in the tanks of differ-
_ ent species of Bromeliaceae.

385
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The term “bromeliad malaria” has been coined (Downs and Pitten-
drigh, 1946) to cover this situation, and it is hard to see how it can be
improved, although the bromeliad is neither disease, carrier, nor host.
It is the host of the carrier and thereby adds another set of variables
to the study of malaria.

There are about 1,600 species of Bromeliaceae, all but one being
natives of the New World. They are almost exclusively herbs, and
the more primitive types are terrestrial and store water only in the tis-
sues in the manner with which we are familiar. However, the more
advanced types have adapted themselves to life above ground. They
are not parasitic but are capable of living independently on bare rocks,
trees, and even telegraph wires. This they have accomplished by two
types of development. In one the narrow leaves have developed a
dense scaly covering that soaks up water like a blotter and then trans-
mits it to the tissues within. In the other the broad flat leaves overlap
in a watertight spiral forming a tank (pl. 1). According to the spe-
cies, the tank may hold a thimbleful to over a gallon of water.

Like the entomologist, the botanist has the problem of identifying
species and determining their habits in order to discover their impor-
tance in the spread of malaria. The types of bromeliads without
tanks do not enter the question of malaria, but there are several hun-
dred species with tanks that must be taken into account. Of these
the rarer in any given region may be ignored, as Pittendrigh has shown
(1950c) that it is the frequency of a species rather than the size of its
tank that determines its importance in the spread of malaria. Other
factors are the shape of the tank and the habitat of the species. Tanks
with narrow openings harbor few or no mosquito larvae, while those
with broad tops hold many (Downs and Pittendrigh, 1946). Both
mosquitoes and bromeliads have height ranges in the forest. In order
to be effective in malaria spread a bromeliad must have the same
height range as some mosquito that is a carrier. Again suspicions
must be varified, this time by a careful census of the different species
of mosquito larvae found in the bromeliad tanks. Finally, although
the bromeliad is not a parasite, it does show a preference in trees, or
rather it finds it easier to secure a perch on some species than on
others, and thereby adds yet another variable to the over-all problem.

In fact the whole cycle of malaria is so complex and presents so
many vulnerable spots, that the surprising thing is that it survives
at all; and yet it is one of the most successful of all disease organisms.
Another surprise is that bromeliad malaria with all its additional
complexities was understood almost as early as the commoner type.

THE DISCOVERY OF BROMELIAD MALARIA

In 1897 Ronald Ross in India demonstrated that malaria is carried
by mosquitoes. In 1898, Adolpho Lutz, who was to gain fame later as
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 387

a conqueror of yellow fever in Brazil, was sent to investigate cases of
malaria that were developing among construction crews on the new
Sao Paulo-to-Santos railroad line (Lutz, 1950). Now malaria has
generally been associated with marshy regions, but this epidemic was
in the construction camps cut out of the virgin forest on the precipitous
seaward slopes of the Serra de Cubatio where the water ran off as
fast as it fell.

Lutz had the suspicion that some blood-sucking insect was respon-
sible, and one evening in camp he noticed a small mosquito (Anopheles
cruzi) that lost no time in hovering around but attacked with great
speed and voracity. Later he was pleased to find that anopheline
mosquitoes are carriers of malaria and that he had been correct in sus-
pecting this species.

The next question was where could a mosquito breed in such a com-
pletely drained area. In his travels Lutz had observed various groups
of plants that held water in their leaves, and he was familiar with
the work of Fritz Mueller, the Santa Catarina naturalist who had
studied the different forms of life found in bromeliad tanks. After
considerable fruitless search, Lutz found bromeliads containing larvae
of the mosquito in question, and in 1903 he published his findings in
a paper entitled “Waldmosquitos und Waldmalaria.”

The first reaction to Lutz’s story of bromeliad malaria was one of
almost complete incredulity. Other scientists pointed out how diffi-
cult it would be for such a type of malaria to attack humans, and the
complex set of conditions that would be necessary for an epidemic to
start. For one thing, any mosquito, to carry malaria, must first bite
an infected man, then survive against all its natural enemies for sev-
eral days while the malaria cycle followed its course, and after that
bite an uninfected man. It seemed highly improbable that a forest
mosquito would have the opportunity for the repeated biting necessary
to carry malaria (Knab, 1913). Nevertheless, over the years opinion
swung more and more to Lutz’s views as evidence in his favor accumu-
lated. Then it was suddenly discovered that the supposedly impossible
chain of circumstances had produced a persistent (endemic, in medical
language) plague of bromeliad malaria in two widely separated
regions, the Island of Trinidad in the British West Indies, and the
state of Santa Catarina in southern Brazil.

BROMELIAD MALARIA IN TRINIDAD

The malaria problem in Trinidad made a strong contrast to the
situation originally studied by Lutz, for being on relatively level
ground the possibility of swamp-breeding mosquitoes could not be
ruled out at the start (Downs and Pittendrigh, 1946). When, in 1942,
’ the principal carrier was definitely identified as Anopheles bellator,
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

a bromeliad breeder, the factors of the infestation became evident.
Later some interesting observations by Pittendrigh (Downs and
Pittendrigh, 1946, 1949; Pittendrigh, 1950a) showed why bellator was
mainly responsible. The climate in the forest varies regularly from
the ground to the treetops and plant and animal life is zoned accord-
ingly. A mosquito species like Anopheles homunculus that breeds
near the ground finds few bromeliads so that its numbers are relatively
small, and outside conditions are such a contrast to its constantly
dark and moist habitat that it leaves the forest only under extremely
humid conditions. <A. bellator, on the other hand, is concentrated
near the top of the forest where the great mass of bromeliads offers
excellent breeding grounds. The dry sunny climate offers less con-
trast to nonforest areas and consequently bellator leaves the forest
readily to attack man (fig. 1).

The center of the infestation was in the cacao plantations, the back-
bone of Trinidad agriculture, so that this time man had brought the
forest and its mosquitoes to him rather than entering it, like the men
in Lutz’s studies. Cacao planting in Trinidad involved setting alter-
nate rows of cacao and quick-growing immortelles (E’rythrina glauca
and £. poeppigiana), the latter to give the cacao plants necessary
shade. Bromeliads from the nearby forests invaded the plantations
like weeds and found particularly favorable perches on the immor-
telles, covering them in profusion. With the bromeliads came swarms
of mosquitoes that until now had been too remote in the forests to
act as carriers. However, in the plantations they came in contact
with the workers living there and the disease shortly developed to
crippling proportions.

Local health authorities and the scientists of the Rockefeller Founda-
tion set out to control the disease and soon found that previous experi-
ence with malaria was of little help. The usual ditching and draining
procedure was completely useless against a carrier that bred above
ground. Cutting down the trees would have solved the health problem
but would have been economically ruinous.

In Trinidad, bellator spends little time in houses (Downs and
Pittendrigh, 1946), so it had to be eliminated in its natural habitat
and the best way appeared to be by removing its bromeliad breeding
places. Given the short flight range of the mosquito, it seemed possible
to protect the cacao workers by clearing the bromeliads from the
plantations by hand. Crews went to work pulling the bromeliads off
the trees, but it was soon evident that progress was too slow to make
appreciable headway against the disease. Meantime studies of the
bromeliads had shown that even the commonest species differed
greatly in their receptivity to mosquitoes. Gravisia aquilega and
Aechmea nudicaulis were of almost identical frequency, yet the
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 389

former, with a broadly funnel-shaped tank, averaged 90 times as
many mosquito larvae per plant as the latter with its slender-necked
vase (Downs and Pittendrigh, 1946). However, before this knowl-
edge could be used in a more selective form of removing bromeliads,
the breaking of the brittle limbs of the immortelles caused several
accidents, so that this line of attack had to be abandoned and another
sought.

The second attack was along chemical lines and proved successful.
Because of the peculiar structure of the epiphytic bromeliads it was
possible to kill them without injuring the trees on which they grew.

KEY
(CJ anopueves cKcateszia) se.eator

ANOPHELES (KERTESZIA) HOMUNCULUS

MOSQUITOES
perm ee

GROUND
LEVEL

te) 3 6

MOSQUITOES PER MAN-HOUR

Ficure 1.—The vertical distribution of Anopheles bellator and Anopheles homunculus in the
seasonal forests of Tamana, Trinidad, B. W. I. (After Downs and Pittendrigh, 1946.)
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

The bromeliads absorb salts through the leaves instead of through
the roots, like nearly all other plants. Thus they receive a maximum
effect from any poison sprayed on them, while the tree roots are
protected by the soil which neutralizes the chemical before it can
reach them. ‘The successful technique involved a 2-percent copper-
sulfate solution applied with the same spraying equipment used in
New England forests against gypsy moths. The pumps were moved
along roads and lines of hose run from them to reach all parts of the
plantations, the regular arrangement of the trees greatly facilitating
the operation.

Although the killing of the bromeliads by chemical spray was suc-
cessful in controlling the disease, ultimately it would have to be
repeated unless the system of cacao cultivation were changed. Fortu-
nately, other centers of cacao production have developed a system of
close-planting the cacao trees to furnish their own shade and using
other trees as windbreaks only. It has the additional advantage that
the trees in the windbreak can be of a kind, such as the mango, that
is not only of value in itself but also is less favorable to bromeliad
growth. By converting to this system as new plantings are made,
Trinidad can be permanently freed from bromeliad malaria.

BROMELIAD MALARIA IN SANTA CATARINA

The intensification of malaria in Santa Catarina closely followed
that in Trinidad but was quite different in character. The area and
population involved were much larger and more diverse, making a
single solution of the problem impossible. This region comprises the
seaward slope of southern Parané, Santa Catarina, and extreme
northern Rio Grande do Sul (fig. 2). The five municipios in Parana
and the two in Rio Grande do Sul are relatively insignificant parts
of their states with a population of 60,000 and 22,000, respectively.
In Santa Catarina, however, the drainage divide formed by the crests
of the Serra Geral and the Serra do Mar swings deeply inland
making a seaward slope 100 miles wide, and on this slope are 29
municipios with a population of some 829,000 representing the great
majority of the agricultural population and practically all of the
vigorous industrial system (Pinotti, Rachou, and Ferreira, 1947).

The area, although broader, is similar to the coastal slopes of
Sao Paulo where Lutz made the original discovery of bromeliad
malaria. Erosion has reached the maturity stage, with V-shaped
valleys and sharp ridges giving a very rapid run-off to rains except
for the retaining action of forests and small swampy areas by rivers
or close to the sea. Most of the cities and towns are packed tight
at the bottom of the valleys, whose abrupt sides until recently were
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Smith PLATE 1

BROMELIAD TANKS AT GUARATUBA, PARANA

Upper: Epiphytic bromeliads, Vriesia incurvata in foreground. }
Lower: Terrestrial bromeliads, mostly Vriesia erythrodactylon in foreground, and /.

philip pocoburgii.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Smith PLATE 2

1. PORTABLE TANKS USED IN SPRAYING METHOD OF CONTROLLING BROMELIAD
MALARIA

2. A DEMONSTRATION OF THE TECHNIQUE OF SPRAYING
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 391

covered with dense forest with a profusion of bromeliads teeming
with mosquitoes. As a consequence, malaria has been entrenched in
the state and at intervals has reached great proportions.

C40 PAULO

PARAGUGAS

if Y CIRCUNSCRICAO _ SUL.
/ PARANA - T.IGUAGU
SANTA CATARINA
RIO GRANDE DO SUL

ESCALA

get EE
Ficure 2.—Distribution of bromeliad malaria in southern Brazil. (After Pinotti, Rachou,
and Ferreira.)

From the time of Lutz there has been a steady growth in malarial
research in Brazil, and there have been some notable victories in its
conquest such as the complete eradication of Anopheles gambiae after
its accidental introduction from Africa led to a severe epidemic in
the northeast. In 1941 the Brazilian Government raised the fight

236639—53——26
392 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

against malaria to the national level by the formation of the Servico
Nacional de Malaria, with Mario Pinotti as director. The Rocke-
feller Foundation, with its strong interest in the world-wide control
of malaria, has been cooperating in the Brazilian campaigns both be-
fore and after the organization of the Servico Nacional.

The recent upsurge of malaria in Santa Catarina began about the
time that the Servico Nacional de Malaria was organized. It was
particularly bad in the cities and pressure was strong for the local
branch of the Servico to do something quickly. Drainage campaigns
had been very successful in other parts of Brazil, so drainage was
tried around several cities before there was time for investigation of
the causes of the disease.

Fortunately, the Servico had been busy meanwhile investigating
the mosquito carriers, and soon discovered that the malaria in Santa
Catarina and adjoining areas was wholly of the bromeliad type.
Three species of mosquitoes were identified as carriers, Anopheles
bellator, cruziz, and homunculus, each with different habits and cov-
ering a different area (Pinotti, Rachou, and Ferreira, 1947). It is
interesting to note, however, that all were found in houses in large
numbers, in contrast to the behavior of bedlator in Trinidad.

Having located the breeding places of the malaria carriers the next
problem was how to eradicate them. Owners of forest land were
loath to have the value of their property destroyed, so at first a
program of hand removal of bromeliads was tried. This program
ran into the same difficulties encountered in Trinidad except that they
were generally worse on account of the taller forest. One exception
should be noted, the city of Florianépolis, where hand removal made
significant progress against malaria because of the location of the
majority of the bromeliads on the ground. However, it soon became
evident that the whole program, although pointed in the right direc-
tion, was quite inadequate to deal with the disease and it was
abandoned.

The situation now was desperate. Cities such as Brusque had so
many workers ill that industries were preparing to move out bodily.
Schools were hard hit also; two-thirds of the students of the Semi-
nario de Azambuja were hospitalized at one time. The only alter-
native was to deforest a belt around the cities, and this the Servico
proceeded to do under the direction of Mario Ferreira. Pittendrigh
was called in to help formulate the plans and give the benefit of his
experience in Trinidad (Ferreira, 1948).

The major part of the deforestation program required 3 years, but
by the end of the first year there had been a sharp drop in the in-
cidence of malaria. In the end, the program was a success, with
malaria virtually eliminated from the cities. Early in 1952 I spent
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 393

a month in Brusque with neither screens on my bedroom windows nor
net over my bed, and I found it very difficult to realize that only a
few years ago my hosts of the Seminario de Azambuja had been on
the point of moving out completely and abandoning their buildings.

As newer techniques of control have appeared, there has been
considerable argument on the value and necessity of deforestation.
On one score, though, there can be no argument: deforestation was
the only means at the time and it was used very effectively. The
principle of deforestation was simple. It sufliced to destroy breeding
places for Anopheles as far as the nearest ridge crest, or rarely to
the second if that were considerably higher (Ferreira, Rachou, and
Lima, 1951). Again Azambuja is a good example, for there one
can walk up over the ridge behind the Seminario and down the other
side into forest and find a supply of mosquitoes sufficient to keep one
fully occupied.

Deforestation caused considerable hardship for landowners because
the emergency did not allow time to lumber the forest properly, and
many of the trees were a complete loss. The techniques of using
DDT against the adult mosquito, aralen against the disease organism
in man, and herbicide sprays against the bromeliads all have the
advantage of leaving the forests intact, yet probably deforestation is
still the best technique for protecting the cities. Herbicide spray has
not developed sufficient range to cover any but the low forests along
the coast, and DDT and aralen require constant reapplication in cities,
while belts of deforestation can be maintained and even made a greater
source of profit to the owners than the original forest. The gentler
slopes can be turned into pasture or vegetable garden and the remain-
der planted to Afimosa and Eucalyptus with the help of the Servico
Florestal. Mimosa can be cut and sold for firewood in a few years
before the slow-growing bromeliads can become established.
Eucalyptus requires a longer time before it is ready to be cut, but
its bark peels away constantly giving epiphytes no chance to establish
themselves. The planted forest has the additional advantage of being
a pure stand so that it can be lumbered much more efficiently at ma-
turity than can the diverse original forest. The city of Brusque has
voluntarily become a test case for deforestation by using that method
alone and dispensing with the other means of protection. For over 5
years now deforestation has been sufficient.

However, as has been noted before, there was no universal solution
to the problem in Santa Catarina. Deforestation worked in the
city areas, but it was clearly impractical, if not impossible, for

1 Note to cultivators of ornamental bromeliads: Cities are so widely separated in Santa

Catarina that wholesale destruction of the plants in deforestation belts has made no
> appreciable inroad on the total supply.
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

small settlements and isolated farmhouses. The amount of de-
forestation necessary to protect one farmhouse would be the equiv-
alent of what would protect scores of houses in a city area. ‘The cost
would increase astronomically. There is also the strong probability
that further deforestration would have an adverse affect on the water
supply.

In 1945 Pinotti imported a small amount of DDT and began
experiments in mosquito control with it. By 1947 he was able to
undertake a program for all Brazil, and by 1949 3 million houses
a year were being treated. Thus as the cities in Santa Catarina
came under control and the campaign shifted to the country districts,
a technique was ready to apply to the new problem.

By itself DDT was not a complete solution since its use in the
forest did not prove practical (Ferreira and Rachou, 1949). On the
other hand, detailed investigation showed that the mosquito carriers
in Santa Catarina were highly domesticated and preferred to dine
indoors and at night (Rachou and Lima, 1950). Further research
showed that they had a strong preference for resting on the walls at
certain levels. They even tended to distinguish between light and
darkbands. These peculiarities plus the regional climate were a great
help to the DDT campaign. The spray had to be applied only to
the upper part of the walls indoors and only once a year, because its
6 months’ duration covered the rainy season and the mosquitoes were
not a problem in the dry season.

The rural campaign was actually a double campaign because aralen
was used against the malaria in its human hosts at the same time
that DDT was used against the mosquitoes. The Brazilian Govern-
ment bought a large supply of aralen, a drug that has largely suc-
ceeded the atabrine that was used against malaria in World War IL.
Clinics were established in all the municipios involved in bromeliad
malaria and aralen administered to all persons who showed symptoms.

Probably it will never be possible to evaluate the effects of DDT
and aralen separately, but the combination was eminently successful.
Either the malaria organism lacked mosquitoes to carry it or the
mosquitoes lacked malaria to carry. In either event the cycle was
broken and the rural areas came under control like the cities.

One other type of control should be noted, that of herbicide sprays.
So far, this method, which provided complete control in Trinidad,
has been impractical except in the low coastal forest around cities
like Sio Francisco (Veloso, Neto, and Chamarelli, in preparation).
Even here a new technique was necessary because there were not
enough roads to carry wheeled pumps within striking distance of
all the forest area. Instead the Servico crews cut trails and widened
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 395

them at suitable intervals to provide room for pumping stations.
Tanks were made by assembling movable sections and lining them
with canvas (pl. 2, fig. 1). Water was pumped into the tanks from
the nearest watercourse and copper-sulfate powder added. The pumps
were then reversed to spray the surrounding forest (pl. 2, fig. 2).

The value of herbicide control in Santa Catarina to date has not
been so great as that of the other methods, but if it can be improved
it promises to have certain advantages. It saves the trees, since only
the epiphytes are killed, and thus it has a great economic advantage
over deforestation. Owing to the slow recovery of the bromeliads,
herbicide does not need to be applied oftener than every 5 years
where DDT needs yearly application.

CONTINUATION OF CONTROL AND RESEARCH

At present Santa Catarina is freer from malaria than at any
time in recent history. However, the people of the Servico Nacional
de Malaria realize that what they have achieved is control and not
eradication. As Rachou has pointed out (1951), eradication is pos-
sible only when the campaign can be carried out on all sides to
strong natural barriers such as the shores of an island. On the other
hand control, once established, can be made more and more efficient
by continued research.

With this idea in mind, Pinotti set up a malaria research labora-
tory in Brusque in 1949 under the ecologist Henrique P. Veloso. The
laboratory was equipped to study bromeliad malaria from all possible
angles. Field crews have made a succession of surveys of the brome-
liad population of the forests and of the mosquito population of the
bromeliads. A card has been made out for each bromeliad listing 20
items of information, including the species of tree on which it grew,
the species of the bromeliad, its height from the ground, the amount
and temperature of the water in its tank, and the number and species
of mosquito larvae in the water. To date 120,000 individual brome-
liads from 200 localities have been studied and their importance as
mosquito breeders evaluated (Veloso, in press), with the aim of
making the attack more selective, more efficient, and consequently less
expensive.

With the help of Padre Raulino Reitz, director of the Herbario
Barbosa Rodrigues, a thorough systematic and ecological study of
the bromeliads has been made and an illustrated monograph of all
the Santa Catarina species has been prepared (Reitz, in preparation).
I have contributed keys for the identification of such material (Smith,
1950) until more detailed works are ready, and have correlated all
the Santa Catarina collections with those already in the Smithsonian
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Institution. A duplicate series is on file here for the use of American
investigators. It is now possible, by correlation with mosquito data,
to distinguish potentially dangerous bromeliad populations from
harmless ones.

A further refinement in control is the ecological study of the rela-
tion between the bromeliads and the trees upon which they perch.
Veloso has accumulated the ecological data and is waiting while var-
ious systematic botanists, including myself, complete the identifica-
tion of his trees. Until now Veloso has assembled data by using
numbers and local popular names to designate his species. When
complete, this report will help determine which types of forest are
most rapidly invaded by bromeliads and where controls will need to
be reapplied soonest, and its scientific names will make the information
usable outside Santa Catarina should bromeliad malaria appear else-
where in tropical America.

Studies of the mosquitoes will show at what height in the forest
the principal carriers breed, and in turn prove whether it is necessary
to reach all the forest or only certain levels when using herbicide.

Herbicide control technique has been the main research in the
Brusque laboratory. To date, a way of controlling the low coastal
forest has been found, but the laboratory is still experimenting to
find a way to reach the high forest which predominates farther
inland. Spraying from the ground does not reach the bromeliads
in the tops of the highest trees effectively, and so far spraying from
planes has been equally futile.

Ottis R. Causey, representative of the Rockefeller Foundation in
Brazil, has developed a telescoped pole which is elevated by compressed
air. It can be used to elevate the nozzle to the level of high trees
and is capable of spraying bromeliads individually. In combination
with ground spray for the lower levels it might provide the means
for controlling some of the interior forests, but there has not been
time to test it thoroughly yet.

At the same time the Servicgo Nacional de Malaria has been study-
ing the data accumulated during the campaign with interesting results.
Table 1, compiled from mnpublished data, shows comparative statis-
tics ine five of the cities that were cleared of malaria. Note that
Florianépolis controlled malaria by hand removal of bromeliads and
that Brusque succeeded with deforestation. Blumenau and Join-
vile used DDT in houses in addition to deforestation, and Itacorobi
used only DDT in houses from 1948 on. Constant comparisons of
the effectiveness and cost of these operations will point the way to
further control or their adaption to fight possible epidemics elsewhere,
BROMELIAD MALARIA—SMITH 397

TaBLE 1.—New and total cases of malaria in various localities of Santa Catarina,
1944 to 1951

Primary
Locality Municipio Year pas f Total
origin
Florianépolis! . . . . | Florianépolis . . ..}| 1944 112
1945 13
1946 11
1947 4
1948 1
1949 2
1950 0
1951 Oy et eee.
Blumenaw4o,. 3. 8 Blumenau . ... . .| 1945 212 3, 106
1946 12 2, 080
1947 56 1, 874
1948 58 2, 284
1949 11 614
1950 4 266
1951 a 79
PE ACOTODIS eae mie eB lOnAnODOlSmem ae alle LOtoren  e e 866
TOARE eyes 25D
1947 1, 168
1948 457
1949 : 30
1950 15
LOD ren aa eee, 14
Jomplese, sore rs laomvileve cnc) Leh MOsseiiaital er <: 740
OA. G sail ey tps ys 1, 239
1947 4, 720
1948 3, 639
1949 2, 241
1950 811
LOSES has 5 Wey cea 144
BEUAQUC See). vee tate oi BIUBQMC. ..s scic« coma OER Ve a uc ane 2, O11
TOG? See 1, 536
1947 1, 289
1948 441
1949 95
OBO ee igen ae users 44
GOL Wil ereretee en of 18

1 Florianépolis, only manual removal in 1944-45.

2 Blumenau and Joinvile, manual removal and deforestation until 1948. DDT
indoors beginning in 1949.

3 Itacorobf, only DDT indoors beginning in 1948.

4 Brusque, only deforestation and manual removal.

REFERENCES

Boyp, Mark F., and contributors.
1949. Malariology, vols. 1, 2, pp. 1-1643.
COUTINHO, JOSE DE OLIVEIRA.
1946. Contribuicio para o conhecimento das espécies do subgénero Kertes-
zia (Diptera-Culicidae). Doctoral thesis, University of Sio Paulo.
Downs, WiLBuR G., and PITTENDRIGH, CoLIN S.
1946. Bromeliad malaria in Trinidad, British West Indies. Amer. Journ.
Trop. Med., vol. 26, pp. 47-66.
1949. Malaria transmitted by bromeliad-breeding anophelines. In Mark
F. Boyd, “Malariology,” vol. 1, pp. 736-748.
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

FrerremrA, MArto O.
1948. Combate especifico ao vetor de malaria em zona de transmissao por
anofelinos do subgénero “Kerteszia.”’ Res. Malariol. Doencgas
Trop., vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 17-24.
Ferrets, MArto O., and RacHou, RENE G.
1949. Consideragdes sobre métodos profilaticos relativos aos anofelinos do
subgénero Kerteszia. Rev. Brasil. Malariol., vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 38-47.
Ferreira, MArto O., RAcHOU, RENE G., and Lima, Mitton M.
1951. Consideracdes sobre 0 combate ao “Anopheles (Kerteszia) cruzii”
em Caldas da Imperatriz (S. Catarina) pelo desmatamento ; abrigos
naturais dessa espécie. Rev. Brasil. Malariol., vol. 3, pp. 14-35.
KLEIN, ROBERTO.
1952. O combate 4 Malaria. Anuario d’ “A nagao.”
Knap, F.,
1913. Contentions regarding “forest malaria.” Proc. Ent. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 15, pt. 2, pp. 110-118.
Lutz, ADOLPHO,
1950. Forest mosquitoes and forest malaria (translation from Centralbl.
fiir Bakt. 1908. Abt. 1, orig. vol. 83, No. 4, pp. 282-292). Rev.
Brasil. Malariol., vol. 2, pp. 102-110.
Pinorti, MArio, RACHOU, RENE G., and FrerRerrA, MARIo O.
1947. Alguns aspectos epidemiolégicos da malaria no litoral sul do Brasil,
em zona de transmissio por anofelinos do subgénero Kerteszia.
PITTENDRIGH, COLIN S.
1950a. The ecoclimatie divergence of Anopheles bellator and A. homunculus.
Evolution, vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 48-63.
1950b. The ecotopie specialization of Anopheles homunculus and its relation
to competition with A. bellator. Evolution, vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 64-78.
1950c. The quantitative evaluation of Kerteszia breeding grounds. Amer.
Journ. Trop. Med., vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 457-468.
RacwHov, RENE G.
1951. Erradicacio de anofelinos transmissores de maldria. Rey. Brasil.
Malariol., vol. 3, pp. 92-100.
RacHov, RENE G., and Ferrera, MArio O.
1947. As Kerteszias como os grandes responsdveis pela malaria no litoral
do Estado de Santa Catarina. A Folha Medica, vol. 28, No. 1,
pp. 1-8.
RacHov, Ren& G., and Lima, MILTon M.
1950. Do pouso de anofelinos do subgénero Kerteszia no interior dos domi-
cilios. Rey. Brasil. Malariol., vol. 2, pp. 166-185.
RacHovu Ren& G., Riccrarpi, Ivan, and Luz, ENNIO.
1949. Dispersio ativa e passiva dos anofelinos do subgénero Kerteszia no
litoral paranaense. Rev. Brasil. Malariol., vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 65-72.
ReE1Tz, RAULINO.
—. Bromeliaceae Catharinenses. (In preparation.)
SmirH, LYMAN B.
1950. Chaves para as Bromelidiceas de Santa Catarina. An. Bot. Herb.
“Barbosa Rodrigues,” vol. 2, pp. 17-33.
VELOSO, HENRIQUE P.
—. O Problema Ecolégico Vegetacio—Bromeliiceas—Anofelinos. An.
Bot. Herb. “Barbosa Rodrigues.” (In press.)
VELosO, HENRIQUE P., NeTo, Joaquim A. FERREIRA, and CHAMARELLI, CaAMILO.
——. Preliminary results of copper sulphate spraying in Sao Francisco do
Sul, state of Santa Catarina. (In preparation.)
Pharmacology of Antibiotics’

By Henry WELCH

Director, Division of Antibiotics
Food and Drug Administration
U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare

THE IMPETUS given to the search for new antibiotics after the dis-
covery of tyrothricin by Dubos in 1939 and the development of peni-
ceillin during World War II has resulted in the reporting of literally
hundreds of new and untried antimicrobial substances. There has
heen compiled recently a dictionary of these substances in which are
listed some thousands of antibiotics and, because of the large number
of screening programs in progress, their number is increasing. It is
significant, however, that of these thousands of antimicrobial sub-
stances less than ten have been found to be useful in the treatment
of human or animal diseases.

The pharmacological study of a new antibiotic is usually not a
simple one, particularly if the agent isimpure. It will be remembered
that both penicillin and streptomycin when first used clinically were
relatively crude drugs, much more so in the case of penicillin than
streptomycin. As a result, some of the toxicity first attributed to
penicillin, such as irritation on injection and damage to nerve tissue,
could not be immediately assigned to the pure crystalline substance
per se. The purification of penicillin revealed that intramuscular
irritation was related to purity while toxicity for nerve tissue was in-
herent in the drug itself. At the present time it is difficult, if not
impossible, to determine whether the nephrotoxicity of bacitracin
and neomycin is due to impurities or whether it is a quality inherent
in the drugs themselves, though it appears that the latter is the case.
The “broad spectrum” antibiotics—aureomycin, chloramphenicol, and
terramycin—are crystalline drugs which contain few if any impuri-
ties. Thus any toxicity demonstrated for them can be attributed to
the drugs themselves. It is perhaps unfortunate that, because of the
need, it was necessary to use penicillin and streptomycin prior to their
purification to the crystalline state. However, the progress made in

* 1 Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied
Sciences, vol. 3, 1951.

399
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

the antibiotics field during the past 10 years has been such that it is
relatively unlikely that in the future we shall be required to determine
the pharmacology of, or to use, many new antibiotics which have not
been purified. In the following discussion of the pharmacology of
antibiotics, only those chemotherapeutic substances that are currently
in use will be discussed, keeping in mind that the pharmacology of
some was determined on the impure drug, while others were studied in
the pure state.
TYROTHRICIN

The tyrothricin available commercially consists of an impure de-
fatted mixture containing approximately 20 percent gramicidin and
80 percent tyrocidine. Tyrothricin, gramicidin, and tyrocidine are
highly active poisons. Both tyrothricin and tyrocidine hemolyze
erythrocytes. Gramacidin has been shown to be hemolytic as well,
but its action is delayed and the lytic activity of tyrothricin is usually
ascribed to its tyrocidine content. The lysis caused by tyrocidine is
prevented by the presence of serum. Gramicidin is more toxic than
tyrocidine for cells in general, and the cytotoxicity of tyrothricin is
largely due to its gramicidin content.

Injection of small amounts of these drugs in animals by the intra-
venous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous routes invari-
ably causes death in a relatively short time. Death is apparently due
to respiratory failure since the heart may continue to beat for some
time after breathing ceases. Animals dying after lethal doses of
these drugs show nonspecific degenerative changes. Acute conges-
tion of the lungs and abdominal viscera, petechial hemorrhages of
lungs, kidney, and myocardium, and diffuse hemorrhages of the spleen
have been reported. Histopathological examination usually shows
fatty degeneration of the liver with necrosis, cloudy swelling of the
tubular epithelium of the kidney, and hemorrhage of the glomeruli.
Orally tyrocidine and gramicidin are of relatively low toxicity.

In man, no appreciable toxicity of tyrothricin has been reported fol-
lowing local application. During the past 2 years, increased com-
mercial availability of tyrothricin preparations has emphasized the
need for cautious use of this drug. Following its use as nose drops
with or without a vasoconstrictor, both parosmia and anosmia may
occur. More serious, however, is the possibility of chemical menin-
gitis following the use of solutions of tyrothricin for irrigation of
cavities near the subarachnoid space. Fatal chemical meningitis has
been reported after such use of tyrothricin solutions. Following injec-
tion of 1 ec. of 1: 1,000 tyrothricin in alcohol into the cisterna magna
of dogs, death occurred immediately or within a few hours in 50 per-
cent of the animals so treated. The pathological process in the surviv-
ing animals was consistent with acute purulent chemical meningitis.
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 401

The final picture in those animals which survived revealed gross and
microscopical thickening of the leptomeninges with or without hydro-
cephalus. One animal was observed to have a fully developed hydro-
cephalus involving all ventricles.

The observations in patients, together with the reproduction of the
pathological processes in animals, indicate that tyrothricin solutions
should not be used for the irrigation of sinus cavities in close proxim-
ity to the subarachnoid spaces and emphasize again the inherent
toxicity of this drug.

PENICILLIN

Penicillin is by far the most widely employed of the antibiotics now
available to the general practitioner and in many of the bacterial
infections it remains the drug of choice. The toxicity of pencillin was
shown early to be extremely low and, in general, the impressions
gained at that time have been borne out in the extensive use of this
drug. The original studies showed that even with relatively crude
preparations there was little to indicate contraindication to its use
inman. Further studies substantially confirmed the fact that crude
amorphous penicillin had little, if any, true toxicity, although an
occasional sensitization occurred with this material. As early as
1944, at which time only amorphous material was available, it was
demonstrated that insofar as the calcium and sodium salts of penicillin
were concerned, its acute toxicity appeared to be associated with the
cation rather than with penicillin per se. Later studies of the sodium,
lithium, ammonium, strontium, calcium, magnesium, and potassium
salts showed conclusively that the toxicity of these penicillin salts was
primarily associated with the cation. These studies were carried out
with penicillin salts that were not pure although their potencies were
on the order of 1,000 units per mg. The apparent toxicity of peni-
cillin decreased as the purity of commercial preparations improved.
Therefore it is important in discussing the pharmacology of penicillin
to give consideration to the fact that all the reports concerning toxicity
made prior to the advent of crystalline penicillin G were based on
amorphous penicillin containing impurities, which may have been
responsible for certain of the toxic effects ascribed to penicillin itself.
It should be emphasized that the penicillin commercially available
today is largely crystalline penicillin G. Amorphous penicillin is no
longer produced. The presently manufactured penicillin approaches
the theoretical potency—1,667 units of activity per mg. (60 mg. per
100,000 units).

One of the toxic effects observed with amorphous penicillin, an
abrupt rise in temperature following injection, was due, without
doubt, to pyrogenic impurities. The presence of these pyrogenic
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

substances in early commercial lots of penicillin resulted in specifica-
tions by the Armed Forces, who during World War II procured all
of this drug, which required animal tests to demonstrate the absence
of pyrogenic substances. Likewise, safety tests in mice were included
to eliminate the possibility that chance contamination with solvents
and other materials might render the product harmful.

The doses utilized, even in early clinical trials of penicillin, were
relatively high and were a direct indication of the extremely low
toxicity of thisdrug. At the present time, doses as high as 100,000,000
units daily of crystalline sodium or potassium penicillin G are given
without untoward effects. There is little or no pain following intra-
muscular injection of crystalline penicillin. However, early lots of
amorphous penicillin of low purity were quite painful on injection.
As a matter of fact, there was a significant correlation between the
purity (potency) of commercial sodium penicillin and irritation fol-
lowing intramuscular injection. With an increase in potency in units
per mg., there was a corresponding decrease in the pain produced.

The early indications were that penicillin produced no serious toxic
effect on the nervous system. However, there is no question now, that
even with the pure crystalline drug, nerve tissue is vulnerable to its
action. Convulsions may follow intraventricular administration of
penicillin in man and can be induced in animals by direct application
of penicillin to the cerebral cortex. Neurological complications in
patients with pneumococcie meningitis have been noted after
intrathecal administration of penicillin. In these cases, neurological
symptoms were manifest between the tenth and twenty-third day after
the institution of therapy. Both motor and sensory disturbances were
observed although recovery was eventually complete. Peripheral
neuritis has also been reported as a complication of intrathecal penicil-
lin therapy. Localized peripheral neuritis with motor and sensory
disturbances has been observed following intramuscular administra-
tion of penicillin. Recovery from the neuritis occurs in most cases.
Symptoms following intrathecal administration of penicillin, such
as listlessness, headache, nausea, vomiting, respiratory difficulty,
cyanosis, fall in blood pressure, thready pulse, and muscular twitch-
ing, are apparently reduced or eliminated when the dosage is dimin-
ished. This is particularly true if barbiturates are used concomitantly
with reduction in the dose. When 5,000 units of crystalline penicil-
lin are applied to the occipital cortex in human beings, no clinical or
electroencephalographic abnormalities occur, whereas 20,000 units
of the same material produce definite encephalographic changes. In-
dications are that the intrathecal reactions are related to the size of the
dose rather than to the concentration, acidity, or alkalinity of the solu-
tion used. The irritating effect of penicillin on the central nervous
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 403

system can be diminished directly in proportion to the destruction of
the antibacterial properties of the drug.

Toxic reactions to oral therapy with penicillin have been reported
on numerous occasions. Black tongue or glossitis may occur in
patients treated with troches or with troches and sprays. Stomatitis
following the use of penicillin as troches or by inhalation has been
reported. There are other side effects resulting from penicillin
therapy which may be classified as rather indefinite reactions. These
include gastrointestinal disturbances, muscle cramp, flushing of the
skin, and headache. These reactions are observed not infrequently
and some have been described as being allergic in nature. The symp-
toms are difficult to explain but rarely, if ever, are they sufficiently
severe to necessitate withdrawal of the drug. One of the serious re-
actions to penicillin in man is the Herxheimer reaction in syphilis.
This “therapeutic shock” presumably represents a reactivation of the
syphilitic process which sometimes follows the use of any potent anti-
syphilitic drug. The Herxheimer reaction has followed the use of
penicillin in both early and late syphilis and alarming manifesta-
tions may occur in cases of cardiovascular and neurosyphilis. Deaths
have occurred presumably following Herxheimer reactions during the
use of penicillin therapy in syphilis. Fortunately, this type occurs
infrequently.

Of more importance because of their possible universal occurrence
are the allergic manifestations which may be observed following use
of penicillin. The early belief that allergic reactions were connected
exclusively with the impurities in penicillin has been thoroughly dis-
credited by the mass of data to the contrary. Undoubtedly the im-
purities in amorphous penicillin increased the possibility of
sensitization, but the pure crystalline drug itself is quite capable of
causing an allergic reaction in man. Sensitization with crystalline
penicillin approximating the theoretical potency of 1,667 units per
mg. may occur in individuals who have never had previous contact
with the drug. About 5 percent of individuals exhibit a positive reac-
tion of the tuberculin type to penicillin, despite the fact that they have
not had previous contact with the drug. In addition to those indi-
viduals who are sensitive on primary contact with penicillin, there is
a group of probably 10 percent of the population that may become
sensitive following brief or prolonged treatment. Certain individuals
become sensitive following a few injections and others require many.

Probably the most common reaction to penicillin is urticaria. This
may vary from a single or few transient erythematous wheals to the
diffuse massive plaques of angioneurotic edema which may be local-
ized on the hands, lips, eyelids, vulva, or larynx. Epidermal hyper-
sensitivity to penicillin is more likely to occur following topical
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

application. The number of cases of contact dermatitis following
topical application of penicillin makes one question the value of this
drug for local therapy. In addition to contact dermatitis, an Arthus
type of reaction and a condition resembling serum sickness are en-
countered. Reactions are seen most frequently after topical applica-
tion of the drug but similar reactions have occurred following
parenteral administration after initial topical use, and after parenteral
or oral administration only. In some instances, reactions occur after
initial exposure and in others after subsequent administration. In
any case, the increase in frequency of reactions observed following
penicillin therapy indicates that local application of the drug should
be used with considerable caution. In addition, since bacitracin is as
effective topically as penicillin, consideration should be given to its
use because of its low incidence of sensitization following application.

Absorption and excretion—When penicillin is injected intraven-
ously, concentration in the blood reaches a “peak” almost immediately.
The concentration in the blood decreases rapidly and after a few
hours little, if any, can be detected by assay, although it may be de-
tected in the urine for a longer period of time. The peak concentration
of penicillin following intravenous injection as well as the duration
of blood concentrations depends on the quantity of the drug adminis-
tered. Since the first clinical trials were made in this country, it has
been customary to consider that a maintained plasma concentration of
0.03 unit per ml. or better is satisfactory for most penicillin-susceptible
infections other than the most severe. This is an arbitrary figure and
it was chosen primarily because of limitations of the bioassay method
utilized for determining blood concentrations of penicillin in man.
Obviously, some bacterial strains are inhibited by lower concentrations
of the drug while others require considerably higher ones to obtain
the desired therapeutic result. Practically all the clinical evidence
available on penicillin is based on a maintained plasma penicillin
concentration and for general use this appears to be the most satisfac-
tory procedure. There is, however, both laboratory and clinical evi-
dence that a continuous plasma concentration is not essential for good
therapeutic results.

After intramuscular injection, the highest penicillin concentration
in the blood is reached usually within one-half hour with a slower
fall than seen following intravenous administration. The peak con-
centration of penicillin in the blood is not so high as would occur
with the same dose given intravenously. For intramuscular injection,
the intermittent method is most generally used although under certain
exceptional circumstances the drug is given by continuous intramus-
cular infusion. Subcutaneous injection is apt to be painful, and
absorption is slow and uncertain. It has been shown that radioactive
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 405

penicillin, injected intramuscularly, is not stored in the body but is
quickly excreted as penicillin or penicillin-decomposition products.

Early clinical trials with oral therapy were for the most part dis-
appointing, and it was felt that this was due to inactivation of the
drug by gastric secretions. During recent years, several investigators
have shown that the oral route is effective for the treatment of many
infections, provided sufficiently large doses are administered at proper
midmeal periods. It is generally accepted that approximately five
times as much penicillin is required orally as intramuscularly to obtain
comparable plasma concentrations of the drug. These large doses
are necessary because of the inactivating effect of gastric secretions
and food, incomplete absorption, and inactivation by penicillinase-
producing bacteria in the intestinal tract.

Penicillin may be administered by inhalation as an aerosol of finely
micronized dust and by instillation in solution into the pleural, peri-
cardial, peritoneal, or synovial spaces. By these methods of adminis-
tration, a local or topical effect of the drug is obtained and although
absorption may occur, it is erratic and unreliable where systemic
therapy is needed. Soluble tablets of pencillin (containing nothing
but the drug) are available for sublingual use. Satisfactory absorp-
tion by this route has been reported and this mode of administration
may have a place in the treatment of patients who have difficulty in
swallowing the larger penicillin tablets.

Diffusion of penicillin from the circulation into the tissues depends
on the plasma concentrations, and the diffusion into the tissues will
proceed as long as the concentration of diffusible penicillin in the
plasma exceeds that in the tissues. The drug diffuses readily from
maternal to fetal blood and into the abdominal cavity. Some diffu-
sion also occurs into the pleural, pericardial, and synovial fluids, and
bile. Very little of the drug penetrates into abscess cavities, brain
and nerve tissues, bone, chambers of the eye, nor does it appear in any
appreciable concentration in sweat, saliva, tears, or milk. Unless
large doses are administered, very little diffusion into the cerebro-
spinal fluid will occur except where the meninges are inflamed.

As indicated above, after penicillin is absorbed most of it is rather
rapidly excreted in the urine. The renal clearance of crystalline
penicillin G approximates the total renal plasma flow. It is about
four or five times greater than the renal clearance of inulin or sodium
thiosulfate. As a matter of fact, the normal renal clearance of peni-
cillin so closely approximates the renal plasma flow that it has been
suggested as a possible substitute for para-aminohippuric acid or
diodrast as a test for renal plasma flow and renal function. The solu-
ble salts of penicillin are excreted in the greatest amounts during the
the first hour, but diminishing quantities may be found for several
hours thereafter.
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Because penicillin is absorbed and excreted rapidly, numerous
attempts were made to develop pharmaceutical forms of the so-called
“repository types” which would allow a slow and more or less con-
stant release of penicillin into the general circulation from a tissue
depot. The first of these was a suspension of penicillin in peanut oil
and wax. With the development of procaine penicillin, penicillin in
oil and wax became less and less popular until at the present time
practically none is available commercially. Procaine penicillin either
in oil or in aqueous suspension is slowly absorbed from a tissue depot
because of its insolubility. This drug has a solubility of only 0.67
percent. Further prolongation of blood concentrations of procaine
penicillin in oil is obtained by the addition of 2 percent aluminum
monostearate. The latter drug has been used in tremendous amounts
during the past few years. Obviously the addition of peanut oil,
sesame oil, beeswax, and other substances to penicillin increases the
possibilities of sensitization. The occasional side reactions obtained
with the so-called repository forms of penicillin, however, have not
mitigated against their use.

In attempts to prolong the activity of penicillin in the body, agents
that compete with penicillin for the same renal excretory mechanism
have been proposed. These agents, para-aminophippuric acid, dio-
drast, and carinamide, act by retarding the excretion of penicillin, thus
prolonging its presence in the blood. Recently a new, relatively
nontoxic compound, p-(di-N-propylsulfamy]) -benzoic acid * has been
shown to retard the excretion of penicillin with a daily dose of 2.0
grams (0.5 gram every 6 hours) to the same extent as a daily dose
of 24 grams of carinamide (3 grams every 3 hours). This drug also
delays the excretion of para-aminosalicylic acid, and because of this is
under study in combination with para-aminosalicylic acid in the treat-
ment of tuberculosis.

STREPTOMYCIN AND DIHYDROSTREPTOMYCIN

The speed with which streptomycin was demonstrated to be an effec-
tive weapon in the fight against infectious diseases was in part due to
the great need for an agent active against the gram-negative organisms
and the mycobacteria. Within a year of the announcement of the
discovery of this drug, its in vivo activity was established and in spite
of extremely short supplies, it had been shown clinically to be a safe
and effective chemotherapeutic agent. It is the first and only drug
of proven value that phthisiologists have had in the treatment of
tuberculosis. Unfortunately, it is not the answer to definitive treat-
ment of this disease although there is no question but that it is a
most valuable adjunct to other forms of therapy.

2 “Benemid”’—trademark.
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—-WELCH. 407

From the standpoint of the amounts injected, particularly in the
treatment of gram-positive and gram-negative infections, strepto-
mycin may be considered to be a drug of low toxity. In the process
of the development of streptomycin, the organism Streptomyces
griseus produces substances in addition to the antibiotic. Among
these substances are histamine and histaminelike substances which
in the early impure lots were carried over into the finished drug.
These histaminelike substances were responsible for the reports of
nausea, vomiting, headache, and flushing of the face following paren-
teral use of the drug. Streptomyces griseus not only produces unre-
lated chemical compounds that cause untoward reactions on injection,
but produces also vitamin B,, and several other growth-promoting sub-
stances during the fermentation process.

Pyrogenic substances are produced in every batch of streptomycin,
or for that matter in every batch of any antibiotic produced by the
fermentation process. These pyrogens result from breakdown of the
cell of the micro-organism, thereby releasing material that on injec-
tion raises the body temperature. The elimination of pyrogens from
antibiotics has been a problem since their first use in man. It will be
remembered that one of the first side reactions of penicillin was a
pyrogenic response in man. Present-day penicillin rarely, if ever,
contains pyrogenic substances since they are eliminated in the proc-
ess of manufacture. Similarly, these substances are rarely found
in present-day commercial lots of streptomycin. The presence of
histaminelike substances and pyrogens in dihydrostreptomycin has
been rarely noted also since in the case of this drug its clinical use
came about only after relatively pure streptomycin was available.
Some evidences of renal irritation occasionally accompanied by im-
pairment of renal function have been reported, particularly with
early lots of streptomycin. Similarly, intramuscular administration
of partially purified streptomycin gave rise to some degree of sore-
ness and induration at the site of injection. As the purity of the drug
increased, however, reports of renal irritation and impairment of renal
function decreased in number. It should be emphasized in any case
that impairment of renal function ocurred in most instances during
therapy in presence of a probable renal disease which had existed
before streptomycin treatment was instituted. There appears to be
no significant evidence that dihydrostreptomycin produces renal im-
pairment with ordinary dosage regimens.

There is some evidence that streptomycin hydrochloride is more
irritating than streptomycin sulfate on intramuscular administration,
and this irritation seems to be related to the hydrochloride portion
of the molecule. The apparent greater toxicity of the hydrochloride
salt of streptomycin has been sufficient to result in the elimination

236639—53——27
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of this salt of streptomycin from the market, so that at the present
time streptomycin sulfate and streptomycin calcium chloride trihydro-
chloride are the only salts available for clinical use. The only dihy-
drostreptomycin salt available is the sulfate salt.

In a general way, the toxicity of dihydrostreptomycin is similar to
that of streptomycin, but this toxicity should be compared with rela-
tively pure streptomycin only since dihydrostreptomycin is produced
from relatively pure lots of streptomycin. The neurotoxicity of
dihydrostreptomycin when tested in animals is approximately one-half
that of streptomycin. The lower neurotoxicity of dihydrostrepto-
mycin has been shown clinically in man by several investigators. A
delayed neurotoxic effect of dihydrostreptomycin on the auditory
system of patients evidenced by delayed deafness several weeks after
treatment had been discontinued has also been reported. There is
some question as to whether this “delayed deafness” is in reality
delayed or whether it is actually a slow progressive increase in deafness.
Studies are now in progress in an attempt to determine the facts
in this unexpected toxic reaction in a relatively large group of pa-
tients. In any case, careful investigation has failed to demonstrate
a greater neurotoxicity of dihydrostreptomycin over streptomycin on
the auditory system in cats. Indeed, in these animals dihydrostrepto-
mycin appears to affect the auditory and vestibular systems to a lesser
degree than does streptomycin.

As with the other antibiotic drugs, streptomycin causes skin erup-
tions during the course of treatment. These are relatively common
but usually are transient and not considered to be an indication for
the discontinuance of therapy. Although the impurities present in the
early crude preparations of streptomycin may have been responsible
for some of the skin reactions observed, the drug is capable inherently
of producing sensitivity. Skin reactions occur in about 4 percent of
the cases treated. Occasionally severe urticaria complicating strepto-
mycin therapy occurs, and two deaths have been reported from derma-
titis and stomatitis during streptomycin therapy. Contact dermati-
tis is caused by streptomycin more often than by penicillin. Not infre-
quently, individuals in industrial plants handling the drug become
sensitive to it. In addition, nurses having intimate contact with the
drug often show epidermal sensitization to streptomycin.

Absorption and excretion—Following injection, streptomycin is
readily absorbed and excreted. The usual method of administration
is by the intramuscular route, and although intravenous administra-

3'This study has now been completed (February 1953) and has shown dihydrostrepto-
mycin to have a higher toxicity for the auditory branch of the eighth nerve than strep-
tomycin, while the reverse is true for the vestibular branch of this nerve. Recent studies
have also shown a marked reduction in toxicity for both branches of the eighth nerve
through use of a mixture containing equal parts of these drugs.
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 409

tion has been used, it is no longer recommended, not only because of
inconvenience to the patient but also because constant high blood
concentrations are unnecessary. This is particularly true in the
treatment of tuberculosis where prolonged high concentrations of the
drug are not essential and in addition increase the possibility of
neurotoxic reactions. The rapid disappearance of streptomycin from
the blood can be accounted for by its early appearance in the urine.
Following oral administration of the drug in animals relatively small
amounts are found in the blood. This lack of absorption of strepto-
mycin from the gastrointestinal tract is responsible for the low blood
concentrations and is consistent with the large amount of drug re-
covered in the feces. In general, these results are similar to those
found following oral use of streptomycin in man. The drug may be
concentrated and excreted in the bile. It passes the placental barrier
and is readily available to the fetal circulation.

Streptomycin cannot be demonstrated in the blood serum of patients
following the administration of 0.5 gram per day by nebulization or
by mouth and, furthermore, urinary excretion of streptomycin under
these conditions is negligible. Injections of from 50,000 to 100,000 pg.
per day intrathecally for meningitis show from 6 to 50 yg. per ml. in
the spinal fluid 12 hours later. No significant amounts of strepto-
mycin appear in the spinal fluid following intramuscular or subcu-
taneous injections of from 50,000 to 200,000 pg. In patients with
tuberculous meningitis receiving streptomycin by continuous subcu-
taneous infusion for over 48 hours, streptomycin may be demonstrated
in the spinal fluid in amounts varying from 4 to 18.5 pg. per ml. It
would appear that the presence of an inflammatory reaction in the
meninges increases the possibility of diffusion of streptomycin into
the spinal fluid. In man, the serum concentration obtained within
1 hour after intramuscular injection of streptomycin approximates
that obtained by intravenous injection of the same dose indicating a
rapid absorption from the muscle. Streptomycin is absorbed more
slowly following intramuscular or subcutaneous injection than is
penicillin and similarly is excreted at a slower rate. Blood concen-
trations may be maintained for approximately 12 hours following
the injection of 0.5 gram of streptomycin as the sulfate.

Most of the streptomycin injected parenterally is excreted through
the kidneys and although rather broad variations in percent recovery
of streptomycin in the urine of man have been reported, it appears
that where normal kidney function is involved, between 50 and 60
percent of the streptomycin administered parenterally is excreted in
the urine within a 24-hour period. Excretion of the drug is most
rapid in the first 4 hours while the greater part of the antibiotic is
excreted in the urine within the first 12 hours. Obviously in the
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

presence of renal damage, markedly different results may be obtained.
The renal clearance in man is approximately 70 percent of the simul-
taneously determined glomerular filtration rate. In the dog practi-
cally all the streptomycin administered can be accounted for by ex-
cretion in the urine. In man, however, a considerable amount of the
drug is frequently not found in the urine.

Several daily injections of streptomycin parenterally usually pro-
duce an equilibrium between the quantities administered and the
amounts excreted. In the individual with normal renal clearance, a
balance is reached rather rapidly and, as long as it remains normal,
may be maintained for considerable periods of time. In the presence
of renal damage, however, the blood concentrations may rise very rap-
idly. In any case, it is advisable and in some instances essential that
the concentration of streptomycin in the serum be followed by labora-
tory assay. As has been indicated previously, the development of neu-
rotoxic symptoms is related to the height of the blood concentration
and duration of treatment. High concentrations of streptomycin in
the serum for prolonged periods of time may result in evidences of
neurotoxicity.

BACITRACIN

Although the bacitracin originally produced was made by the sur-
face-culture method, the present material is produced by deep-tank
fermentation. Production of this drug in the United States is largely
by one manufacturer, but approximately five have produced small
quantities during the past two years. There appear to be no dif-
ferences in the antibacterial activity of that produced by surface cul-
ture and that produced by deep tank.

There is little doubt concerning the toxicity of the bacitracin now
commercially available. It is produced fairly uniformly at a potency
of 40 units per mg., and this is approximately 60 percent pure. Fur-
ther purification beyond 45 units per mg. results in some instability
which becomes pronounced at potencies much in excess of 45 units
per mg. Animal tests invariably show the drug at these potencies
to be nephrotoxic, producing damage to the renal tubules of mice
and rats. Kidney damage is observed in dogs given 5,000 units per
kg. twice daily for 3 days.

In man, bacitracin has been shown to produce local pain and injury
on intramuscular injection. At the site of injection, petechiae of the
skin and macular rashes have been observed. Some nausea and
vomiting have also been noted, and occasionally tinnitus occurs. Of
more importance, however, is the appearance of albuminuria and an
increase in blood urea nitrogen in some patients. Most patients treated
with bacitracin show some nephrotoxic phenomena. These vary in
degree with different lots of bacitracin. The nephrotoxicity is re-
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—-WELCH 411

flected in the blood NPN, in the urinary albumin, and in low phenol-
sulfonphthalein excretion. Abnormal urinary changes are observed
after the eighth or tenth injection with daily doses of 40,000 to 80,000
units and after the second injection of a single daily dose of 100,000
units for 2 days. Evidences of liver damage have not been reported
and no significant effects have been noted on erythrocytes or white
blood cells.

Absorption and excretion.—Bacitracin is absorbed readily follow-
ing intramuscular injection but disappears from the blood less rapid-
ly than does penicillin. Intramuscular injection of bacitracin in man
produces higher and more prolonged blood concentrations than those
observed after penicillin administration. The differences in the blood
concentrations of penicillin and bacitracin have been shown to be due
to their different rates of urinary excretion. In contrast to the mech-
anism of excretion for penicillin, bacitracin is cleared by the kid-
neys at a rate approximating that of glomerular filtration.

Following parenteral injection of bacitracin in animals, the drug
is found in the urine, kidney, blood, bile, lung, bone marrow, skin,
heart, muscle, skeletal muscle, liver, spleen, cerebrospinal fluid, and
brain. In man, bacitracin readily diffuses into the pleural and per-
itoneal cavities. In general, following large intramuscular injec-
tions of this drug in man in the absence of inflamed meninges, baci-
tracin is not usually recovered in the cerebrospinal fluid.

When 50,000 units or about one-half of the maximum daily dose is
administered intramuscularly, the peak concentration of the drug in
the blood develops by the fourth hour, after which the concentration
gradually declines. Individual variation in blood concentrations may
be quite marked following intramuscular use. Blood concentrations
following injection of 50,000 units may vary from 0.03 unit per ml. to
0.8 unit per ml.

The oral administration of bacitracin does not ordinarily result in
measurable blood concentrations, the greater portion of the total dose
being recoverable in the feces. Following unusually large oral doses
or prolonged oral administration, however, a trace of activity may be
observed in the blood and measurable amounts found in the urine, in-
dicating that some absorption has occurred.

Bacitracin, after parenteral administration, is excreted mainly by
way of the urine. Wide discrepancies exist concerning its excretion.
In one experiment 10 to 30 percent of the injected dose was excreted
in the urine within 24 hours and this suggested that the greater por-
tion was either retained in the body or inactivated. Others have
found that practically 100 percent of the dose administered could be
accounted for by urinary excretion within 8 hours. The fact that in
one case much smaller doses were used may account for this discrep-
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

ancy. Under experimental conditions, increasing the dose from 10
to 100 units per kg. results in a slightly decreased renal clearance.
This agrees with the observation that after relatively large doses in
animals, damage to the tubules of the kidneys occurs rapidly and this
damage is reflected in the later excretion rate.

AUREOMYCIN

In aureomycin we have a chemotherapeutic agent that can be used
without fear of serious toxic effects. Untoward side effects consist of
anorexia, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, heartburn, and diar-
rhea, which occur more often in females than in males. The diarrhea
often persists for several weeks but may be helped by the administra-
tion of kaolin, pectin, or bismuth. Sometimes patients complain of
a bizarre desire for certain types of food, and occasionally there is a
compelling and voracious appetite for any kind of food. Other side
effects that have been reported following aureomycin are stomatitis,
cheilosis, skin and mucous membrane eruptions, and vaginitis. In ad-
dition, a Herxheimer type of reaction has been observed in cases of
brucellosis treated with aureomycin. These conditions usually do not
interfere with treatment. Early commercial lots of aureomycin caused
more nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea than those now available. It is
certain that, although the drug itself may cause these symptoms in
patients, a relatively large number of the early reports of toxic mani-
festations were due to the presence of impurities. Present-day aureo-
mycin is recrystallized three times and, as a result, a product of ex-
tremely high purity is available for clinical use.

The diarrhea observed in patients treated with aureomycin for a
period of three or more days may not be a toxic manifestation of the
drug, but rather an expression of the profound effect this drug has
on the intestinal flora. In this respect it is similar to terramycin or,
for that matter, any combination of chemotherapeutic agents that are
markedly active against both gram-positive and gram-negative aerobic
and anaerobic bacteria of which the intestinal flora are comprised.
Oftentimes, patients treated with these broad-spectrum antibiotics for
a period of 3 days or more show nothing but pure cultures of yeast in
their stools. Not infrequently the stools become loose, lose their nor-
mal odor, and the patient complains of pruritus ani. The latter is
probably due to the abnormal shift of the bacterial flora to the acid-
producing yeasts.

There is a relatively low incidence of vomiting in patients treated
with aureomycin and this may be controlled quite readily with alkalies
and, in some instances, milk. The use of aluminum hydroxide is not
recommended since it interferes with proper absorption.
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 413

Although aureomycin is used in large part orally, the intramuscular
and intravenous routes of administration have been explored. Intra-
muscularly, aureomycin causes considerable irritation and is extremely
painful. There is no preparation commercially available at this time
for intramuscular use. There is, however, an intravenous dosage
form. This method of parenteral administration is very valuable,
perhaps essential in certain types of cases. In comatose patients and
those unable to swallow, intravenous aureomycin has been used with
considerable success. Unfortunately, even when used with the special
diluents, glycine and leucine, phlebitis occurs in approximately 10
percent of patients so treated. This reaction subsides promptly with-
out serious residual effect as soon as this form of medication is stopped.
Both nausea and vomiting have been reported following the intraven-
ous use of aureomycin.

Aureomycin retards proliferation of fibroblasts, epithelial cells, and
cells from explants of embryonal brain tissue at levels approaching
those obtained in patients under treatment with this drug. At con-
centrations of 1,000 pg. per ml., inhibition of growth of these cells has
been obtained. These toxic manifestations of aureomycin appear to
be of little clinical significance.

Aureomycin, like all drugs, will sensitize some individuals. The
evidence so far indicates that the incidence of patients who become
sensitive to the drug is extremely low. Furthermore, it is rarely nec-
essary to withdraw the drug from those patients who develop re-
actions to it.

In considering the toxicity of aureomycin, one should not forget its
relative toxicity as compared to that of penicillin which for all prac-
tical purposes is considered atoxic. The average oral dose of crystal-
line penicillin G is 100,000 units (0.06 gram) every three hours. A
million units of penicillin is 0.6 gram, yet doses of aureomycin as high
as 30 grams orally have been used without serious toxic reactions. One
must conclude that we have in aureomycin a drug practically free from
toxicity.

Absorption and excretion—Aureomycin is readily absorbed from
the intestinal tract when administered orally in capsule form. Fol-
lowing absorption it diffuses into all body fluids and tissues. In
single doses of from 0.75 to 1.0 gram, therapeutic serum concentra-
tions are obtained quite rapidly and these are maintained for rela-
tively long periods of time. These serum concentrations are main-
tained at therapeutic levels for 6 to 8 hours and complete disappear-
ance from the circulation is not observed for from 24 to 30 hours.
When doses of 0.5 gram to 1.0 gram are administered to patients every
6 to 8 hours, the serum concentration of the drug is maintained at
from 2 to 4 pg. per ml., although the concentrations in some patients
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

may exceed 6 or 8 pg. per ml. From the circulation, aureomycin
readily passes into the peritoneal fluid, spinal fluid, bile, urine, and
milk. It passes into the fetal circulation through the placenta and
has been found in the liver, kidney, lung, and spleen. Aureomycin
probably passes the blood-brain barrier in therapeutic amounts and
the presence or absence of inflammation is not a controlling factor
as it is in the case of penicillin and streptomycin.

The concentration of aureomycin found in the urine following
oral administration of this drug in either single or multiple doses
is relatively high. Peak concentrations of from 50 to 250 pg. per ml.
of urine are obtained following single doses of from 0.5 to 2.0 grams.
For the most part these peak concentrations may be maintained by
similar doses given every six hours. The successful use of this drug
in certain types of urinary-tract infections, particularly those of the
bladder, is in large part due to the relatively high excretion rate of
this drug.

CHLORAMPHENICOL

Chloramphenicol was the first of the broad-spectrum antibiotics to
be reported in the medical literature. The generic term “chlor-
amphenicol” was derived from the now known structure of this drug
which was first called “chloromycetin.” The latter name, which in-
cidentally is also descriptive of the drug, is the trade-mark name.
Chloramphenicol is unique among the antibiotics. It is the first and
only antibiotic ever synthesized on a commercial basis. The produc-
tion of this drug, which today is measured in tons and produced
largely by synthesis, was an extraordinary acomplishment.

Chloramphenicol is a drug of remarkably low toxicity. A review
of its clinical history indicates that the great majority of investigators
who have used this drug report “no untoward reactions.” The nitro-
benzene nucleus might suggest toxicity for man, yet in a relatively
large number of patients on high dosages, no evidence of intolerance
or toxicity has been observed.‘

Although side reactions such as nausea, headache, skin eruptions,
and enteritic symptoms are rare following the use of therapeutic doses
of chloramphenicol, occasional untoward reactions, minor in char-
acter, have been recorded. In one case there was an altered sense of
taste; food lost its savor and smoking was not pleasant. A second
side effect was the appearance of a sensitivity response which occurred
on the sixth day of treatment. At this time the patient felt some-
what dizzy, his face became flushed, and numerous red macular lesions
appeared over his face. The pulse and respiratory rates were ac-

‘At the present time (July 1952) evidence from both published and unpublished sources
indicate that chloramphenicol has caused blood dyscrasias in certain individuals. While
about half of the accumulated cases have been diagnosed as aplastic anemia, the over-all
incidence of these blood dyscrasias appears to be quite low.
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—WELCH 415

celerated. There was no associated pruritis. These symptoms per-
sisted for about 30 minutes and then subsided spontaneously. The
same syndrome occurred after the last dose of drug was given.
Stomatitis may be a possible side reaction to chloramphenicol and
some looseness of stools or diarrhea may occur. In the treatment of
syphilis a mild Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction has been noted. This
reaction is perhaps less frequent in patients treated with chloram-
phenicol than those treated with penicillin. In general, fewer cases
of loose stools and diarrhea are reported with chloramphenicol than
with either aureomycin or terramycin. An explanation of this, in
part at least, may be the rapid absorption of the chloramphenicol from
the gut and the rapid inactivation of that remaining in the intestine.
In addition, little antibacterial effect is obtained on the intestinal flora
in contrast to the rather profound antimicrobic effect of terramycin
and aureomycin on these organisms. Yeasts are frequently found to
make up a great proportion of the intestinal flora following extended
treatment with either terramycin or aureomycin, while chlorampheni-
col has little or no such effect.

Proliferating epithelial cells and fibroblasts and cells from explants
of embryonal brain tissue are retarded in their growth in vitro by
concentrations of chloramphenicol of 10 yg. per ml. This, of course,
is in the range obtained with certain dosage regimens of this drug.
The cells are completely inhibited in their growth by concentrations
of 1,000 ng. per ml. The latter amount is well beyond the blood
concentration of the drug obtained in clinical use. In view of the
large amounts of chloramphenicol that have been used clinically in
man, it does not appear that its effect on the growth of proliferating
cells is of clinical significance.

Absorption and excretion—Chloramphenicol is very rapidly ab-
sorbed from the intestinal tract inman. It is metabolized readily and
excreted by way of the kidneys. Present evidence indicates that
approximately 90 percent of the administered dose may be accounted
for in the urine in a period of 24 hours, although relatively low con-
centrations of active chloramphenicol are found. Probably less than
10 percent of the administered dose is excreted unchanged, while a
great bulk of the drug is excreted in the form of an inactive nitro
compound.

Although lower concentrations of active chloramphenicol are dem-
onstrated in the urine following the oral use of this drug, the blood
concentrations obtained with chloramphenicol are somewhat higher
than those obtained following comparable oral doses of terramycin and
aureomycin. The concentration of chloramphenicol in the blood drops
off rapidly so that by the sixth hour its concentration is somewhat
- lower than that obtained with similar doses of either terramycin or
416 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

aureomycin. The more rapid disappearance of chloramphenicol from
the blood may be explained by the fact that it is more rapidly metab-
olized into the inactive nitro compound. In spite of this, however, in
some subjects chloramphenicol can be demonstrated in low concen-
trations at the twenty-fourth hour. In the therapeutic use of the
drug, proper dosages at intervals of 6 to 8 hours have been shown to
be clinically effective. As with single doses, the blood concentrations
obtained are much higher than those obtained with comparable oral
doses of aureomycin and terramycin.

TERRAMYCIN

The first report on terramycin, the third of the broad-spectrum
antibiotics to be isolated, gave an indication of its wide clinical possi-
bilities. This drug has an acute and chronic toxicity comparable to
the other broad-spectrum antibiotics. Although daily intramuscular
injections of the drug were well tolerated by dogs for a period of 2
months or more, it was indicated that intramuscular use of the drug
would probably cause local irritation. In high doses (75 to 225 mg.
per kg.) sodium terramycin in dogs resulted in impaired renal and
liver functions. Dogs dying from these large intramuscular doses
of sodium terramycin showed cloudy swelling of the liver and fatty
metamorphosis of the kidneys.

Terramycin, as the hydrochloride, is administered largely in cap-
sule form by the oral route. Patients treated by this mode of adminis-
tration rarely show untoward reactions although there is evidence
that terramycin causes gastrointestinal irritation in some patients.
This is manifested by nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. This is usually
minor in character. The nausea and vomiting can be controlled by
giving the capsules with milk. The use of milk does not interfere
with the absorption of terramycin; however, the use of aluminum
hydroxide gel is contraindicated as it is with aureomycin. Other
reactions reported include proctitis, vaginitis, and pruritis, usually
of a mild degree.

Terramycin is now available for intravenous administration. This
preparation, however, should not be used except in those patients who,
for one reason or another, are unable to take the drug by mouth. The
relatively high alkalinity of the preparation may cause phlebitis on
intravenous administration and patients receiving this type of medi-
cation should be given the drug by the oral route as promptly as pos-
sible. The low toxicity of terramycin by mouth is evident from the
‘fact that doses of at least 15 grams per day over a period of 10 to 15
days have been given without evidences of serious toxic effects.

Absorption and excretion—The close relationship between ter-
ramycin and aureomycin is readily demonstrable in the absorption and
PHARMACOLOGY OF ANTIBIOTICS—-WELCH 417

excretion of these drugs following oral administration. Both drugs
are readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and are readily de-
monstrable in the blood and urine. In addition, appreciable amounts
are excreted in the feces and thereby alter the intestinal flora of the
patient. As with aureomycin, complete disappearance of terramycin
from the blood may occur as late as the twenty-fourth to thirtieth
hour after single doses. There is, however, a definite diminution in
the amount of terramycin in the blood 6 to 8 hours after single doses of
0.5 to 2.0 grams. In contrast to aureomycin, which is not very stable
in solution, terramycin is quite stable in the presence of serum, urine,
and other body fluids. Terramycin does not readily traverse the
blood brain barrier as aureomycin does although in cases where the
meninges are inflamed, terramycin has been demonstrated in the cere-
brospinal fluid. Terramycin diffuses readily into the pleural fluid
and passes through the placenta and is present in the fetal circulation.
The drug is also excreted readily in the bile. The serum concentra-
tions of terramycin after oral administration are relatively high and
prolonged. As the dose is increased from 0.5 to 2.0 grams there is a
tendency for the serum concentration to increase correspondingly at
any given time. However, the increase in serum concentrations of
this drug following single oral doses of from 1 to 2 grams is not quite
as great as one would expect, and furthermore the serum content of
terramycin is not significantly increased by increasing the size of a
single dose from 1 to3 grams. It appears that only a certain amount
of terramycin is absorbed from the circulation regardless of the size
of the oral dose. Blood concentrations of terramycin can be main-
tained at a relatively high level by oral administration every 6 hours.
Following oral administration of 0.25 gram, 0.5 gram, and 1.0 gram
given at 6-hour intervals for a period of 24 hours, serum concentrations
rise sharply with increased dosage.

Urinary excretion of terramycin is relatively high following both
single and multiple doses. Indeed, considerably more terramycin
is found in the urine than aureomycin after similar doses. The dif-
ferences in recovery of terramycin and aureomycin in the urine fol-
lowing the same dose do not appear to be fully explained on the
basis of the instability of aureomycin in urine.

SUMMARY

Pharmacologically, the clinically useful antibiotics are a unique
group of drugs. Penicillin is nearly nontoxic but may cause annoying
allergic manifestations especially when given topically. Both strep-
tomycin and dihydrostreptomycin are essentially nontoxic when given
over short periods of time, although repeated dermal exposure to
either drug may give rise to allergic phenomena, and both drugs may
418 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

cause vestibular and auditory pathology when given over long periods.
The polypetide antibiotics possess somewhat more toxicity. Tyro-
thricin and its constituents gramicidin and tyrocidine have a systemic
toxicity that precludes their parenteral use or makes their application
into body cavities and other sites where absorption is likely unde-
sirable. Bacitracin is nephrotoxic and its parenteral use is justified
only under exceptional circumstances. The broad-spectrum anti-
biotics, aureomycin, chloramphenicol, and terramycin are essentially
nontoxic but they may give rise to sensitization reactions and are apt
to induce minor gastrointestinal disturbances.

As one would expect, the presently employed antibiotics are readily
absorbed following one or more standard routes of administration,
are able to diffuse into the various tissues, are considerably more active
against the parasitic cells than against the host cells and, once their
work has been completed, they are destroyed by normal metabolic
processes or are excreted from the body by natural routes.

Many of the other antibiotics are of no clinical value because of
their adverse pharmacological activity. These substances, although
highly bacteriostatic, are either too toxic for use in man or are slowly
absorbed, poorly diffusible, or inactive in the body. These properties
can only be determined after thorough pharmacological study and
serve to emphasize the importance of pharmacological techniques in
the final evaluation of any new antibiotic.
An Anthropologist Looks at Lincoln

By T. D. STEWART

Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology
U. S. National Museum

[With 4 plates]

“Do you often see Professor Henry?’ inquired the President,
as soon as the door had closed.

I smiled, for it was the identical question which the professor
had asked me about the President.

“My visits to the Smithsonian, to Dr. Henry, and his able lieu-
tenant, Professor Baird, are the chief recreations of my life,” I said.
“These men are missionaries to excite scientific research and pro-
mote scientific knowledge. The country has no more faithful
servants, though it may have to wait another century to appre-
ciate the value of their labors.”

“T had an impression,” said Mr. Lincoln, “that the Smithsonian
was printing a great amount of useless information. Professor
Henry has convinced me of my error...” (lL. H. CHITTENDEN,
Recollections of President Lincoln and His Administration, p. 238,
1901. Harper & Bros., New York.)

Famous men, by virtue of outstanding traits of character and per-
sonality, often impart an impression of physical bigness regardless
of their actual size. The physiques of such men, being easily visual-
ized, as compared to the intangible traits, even after the men them-
selves are dead, tend to grow in remembrance, feeding as it were on
the increasing fame of their intellectual accomplishments. Sculptors
carry on this idea by representing these great men in heroic
proportions.

Abraham Lincoln is one of the best examples of this type of ad-
miration. Rarely has a man, sprung from such humble surround-
ings, self-taught, and self-advanced, been the subject of such inten-
sive study. His strength of character and clarity of thought need
no comment. In the physical sense he was very tall and seemed even
taller because of his leanness. Is it any wonder, then, that his ap-
pearance stuck and grew in the minds of those who, immediately after
his death, began to assemble their recollections; and that with more

419
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

recent recompilations and reanalyses he has continued almost literally
to grow in stature? And in the case of his sculptures, the figure in
the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, for example, is truly heroic,
being, although seated, 19 feet from the top of the head to the sole
of the boot.

There are very few measurements made during Lincoln’s lifetime
that help to bring these soaring concepts of his size nearer to reality
or to give perspective on the man himself in his population milieu.
There is, of course, his own recollection of height and weight: 6 feet
4 inches and 180 pounds, respectively. Then there is a chiropodist’s
record of his foot size. And some idea of his head size has been
gained from hats. That is about all.

The lack of life measurements is somewhat offset, fortunately, by
the existence of other records of Lincoln’s physique that as such
have been largely overlooked. I refer to the casts of his face and
hands made in life by the sculptors Leonard W. Volk and Clark Mills.
Since probably the best copies from the original molds are preserved in
the United States National Museum, I was urged by Dr. Milton H.
Shutes, a Lincoln scholar, to study them from the standpoint of phys-
ical anthropolgy. This paper is the result.1. However, in setting about
this task I found that I needed to know something about the history
of the casts themselves. Not only is their story interesting, but it is
important to the understanding of the use I have made of them.
This is my reason for now taking the reader back in time and intro-
ducing him directly to the principals involved.

LINCOLN AND VOLK

“Mr. Volk, I have never sat before to sculptor or painter—only for
daguerreotypes and photographs. What shall I do?”

With this modest but forthright statement, Volk later (1881) re-
called, Lincoln covered his uncertainty as he seated himself in the
model’s chair that Friday morning early in April 1860, the year of the
51-year-old Lincoln’s nomination and election to the Presidency.

Volk was becoming well known as a sculptor. He had been wanting
to make a bust of Lincoln ever since he had met him 2 years before,
during the Lincoln-Douglas senatorial contest, when he had been
working on a likeness of Douglas. Something in Lincoln’s appearance
at that time undoubtedly fascinated Volk as it was later to fascinate

1 Dr. Shutes brought this problem to my attention during his visit to Washington in the
summer of 1950. My manuscript was finished in November 1952. In the meantime, Dr.
H. L. Shapiro, of the American Museum of Natural History in New York, had become in-
terested in the same subject and had agreed to supply an article along much the same lines
for the February 1953 issue of Natural History. When, in December 1952, he began to
write, he learned of my completed manuscript and graciously curtailed the scope of his
article (see bibliography).
LINCOLN—STEWART 421

others. When Volk had asked Lincoln to pose for a bust sometime
when he would be in Chicago, the great man had replied promptly and
simply, “Yes, I will, Mr. Volk—shall be glad to, the first opportunity
T have.”

Now, almost 2 years later, the opportunity had come. Lincoln was
in Chicago on legal business and was to stay there from March 23
to April 4. Volk had chanced to see his name in the newspaper
and had arranged an appointment. In preparation for the sittings,
and over Volk’s protest, Lincoln had had his hair cut.

After Lincoln had seated himself in Volk’s studio that Friday
morning, only measurements were taken. Except for stature, which
Volk seems to have remembered incorrectly, we are not told of what
the measurements consisted. Probably they represented the main
diameters and circumferences needed by the sculptor for building into
clay the body masses; probably also they were taken over the clothing
without any attempt at real accuracy.

At the second sitting, on Saturday, Volk made a cast of Lincoln’s
face. In those days sculptors often resorted to this means of secur-
ing an exact likeness. They could, of course, modify the expression
of the mask as they chose, but it gave them something to refer to in
the sitter’s absence. Reporting the episode 20 years later, Volk said:
He sat naturally in the chair when I made the cast, and saw every move
I made in a mirror opposite, as I put the plaster on without interference with
his eyesight or his free breathing through the nostrils. It was about an hour
before the mold was ready to be removed, and being all in one piece, with
both ears perfectly taken, it clung pretty hard, as the cheekbones were higher
than the jaws at the lobe of the ear. He bent his head low and took hold
of the mold, and gradually worked it off without breaking or injury; it hurt
a little, as a few hairs of the tender temples pulled out with the plaster and
made his eyes water.

A less calm and courageous person might have become panicky
during such an ordeal. The hair pulling, and the realization that
the mold was hard to get off, were discomforts of which probably
Lincoln had been warned. In addition, well before the end of the
hour, surely the setting plaster had begun to generate heat. Volk’s
efforts at assurance might not have been so successful if Lincoln had
known that, years before, the aged Jefferson had almost succumbed
to the effects of Browere’s moldmaking (Hart, 1899). Nevertheless,
even if Lincoln had been discouraged thereby from further sittings,
an accurate record of his face had been obtained, for which we are
grateful to Volk.

Of course Lincoln was not so easily discouraged. Volk got the
sittings required for a bust and ultimately for a full-length figure
(Durman, 1951). But we will pass over these proceedings, for our
‘interest here is in the life mask alone. In this mask the physical an-
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

thropologist sees more than the sadness, the compassion, and other
such emotions that sculptors delight in portraying; he sees such
characteristics as the bold cheekbones that held the mold tight, the
clear lines of the nose, the long ears—all features that he has come
to recognize as typical of that segment of our population now known
as “Old Americans.” But let us postpone the considerations of
physical anthropology until we have finished our story about the
surviving records of Lincoln’s physique.

Two months after taking the face mold Volk arranged to cast Lin-
coln’s hands. The appointment was for Sunday morning, May 21, in
Springfield. This was the day after Lincoln had been officially noti-
fied of his nomination and when he had shaken hands with the
great crowd intent on congratulating him. Therefore his right hand
was somewhat swollen.

Before making the first cast, that of the right hand, Volk had
Lincoln saw off a piece of broomstick. The cast was made with him
holding this stick. The left hand was cast without the stick and
with the fingers naturally flexed. In the course of the work Lincoln
called attention to a scar on the left (?) thumb resulting from a
glancing blow of the ax years before. We are not told anything fur-
ther about the casting of the hands.

Like the face mask, the hands are records of Lincoln’s physique.
Were they large in proportion to his height and angular build? If
we can trust what people have said about his hands, they must have
been huge. For example, Volk makes a special point of describing
Lincoln’s handshake, using the following expressions: “Grasping my
hand in both his large hands with a viselike grip” and “Those two
great hands took both of mine with a grasp never to be forgotten.”
Again we may ask, Was it the size of the hands, the strength of the
grip, or a reflection of the Lincoln personality? We will take up the
answer later and now go on with the story.

Volk’s original casts of Lincoln’s face and hands, so valuable alike
to sculptor, historian, and physical anthropologist, together with
bronze copies thereof made by Volk in 1866, became national property
in 1888 (U.S.N.M. acces. No. 20084). Quite fittingly, their preserva-
tion and public display in the National Museum in Washington were
aided by another notable Lincoln sculptor—Augustus Saint-Gaudens.
The latter arranged for Thomas B. Clarke, Richard Watson Gilder,
and Erwin Davis to serve with him on a committee to raise funds and
purchase the relics from Douglas Volk, the sculptor’s son. The com-
mittee solicited subscribers, offering to furnish sets of the casts for
sums from $50 to $85, depending on whether they were made of plaster
or bronze. Ultimately the committee paid Volk $1,500, raised through
the following 33 subscribers :
LINCOLN—STEWART 423

Benjamin Altman Henry EF. Howland
Boston Athenaeum B. Scott Hurtt
J. L. Cadwalader Henry Irving
William Carey P. J. Koonz
The Century Co. Enoch Lewis
George W. Childs R. J. Lyle
Thomas B. Clarke J. W. Mack
Erwin Davis Payson Merrill
Alex. W. Drake S. Weir Mitchell
George M. Eddy Allen Thorndyke Rice
Fairmont Park Association, Phila- Jacob Schiff

delphia Bram Stoker
Richard Watson Gilder F. M. Stimson
J. J. Glessner Augustus Saint-Gaudens
John Hay William Thomson
EE. W. Hooper Alexis Turner
Walter Howe J. Q. A. Ward

It was the desire of this group that these important relics should
be preserved and no longer tampered with. This wish has always
been carefully respected. Incidentally, the authenticity of the mask
is attested by Leonard Volk’s affidavit as well as by the presence of a
few hairs still embedded in the plaster at the temples.

As has been said, Volk cast the face in April and the hands in May
1860. On June 3 of the same year, the Chicago photographer Alex-
ander Hessler made his famous portraits of Lincoln in Springfield.
One of these, according to Jesse Weik (1922), was “pronounced by
Mr. Herndon [Lincoln’s law partner] to be the best and most lifelike
portrait of Lincoln in existence.” Two of the surviving Hessler glass
negatives, both unfortunately damaged, recently have been deposited
in the National Museum. These negatives have been described and
illustrated by the former Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Dr. Alexander Wetmore (1936). The casts and the photographs to-
gether provide the finest original records of Lincoln at the time of his
nomination.

LINCOLN AND MILLS

The last 5 years of Lincoln’s life—1860-65—were devoted to
the Nation’s highest political oflice and were spent largely in Wash-
ington. The Civil War added to the usual strain of this office. Dur-
ing these years, as Shutes has remarked (1933), “he aged with great
rapidity.” We have Volk’s word that already during the Presidential
campaign of 1860—that is, between the time he sat to Volk for his
bust and when he left Springfield for Washington—he had lost 40
pounds. His average weight was only 180 pounds; his stature 6 feet
4 inches. After the election he began to grow a beard. Although
the greater number of pictorial representations of Lincoln relate to
this period, there is only one other three-dimensional record com-

236639—53——28
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

parable in accuracy to Volk’s casts. In February? 1865, just before
Lincoln’s fifty-sixth birthday and only 2 months before his assassina-
tion, another face mask was made. Clark Mills, who was well known
at this time in Washington, was the sculptor. His equestrian statue
of Andrew Jackson in the square in front of the White House had
been unveiled in 1853 (Rutledge, 1942).

Unfortunately, the circumstances surrounding the making of the
second face mold are unknown. Quite likely Lincoln told Mills the
story of his sitting for the first mold and of the discomforts involved.
Lincoln could tell a story well. Also, it seems probable that Mills
countered with assurances that such discomforts were largely avoided
by his technique. Perhaps he listed some of the famous men whose
faces he had cast.

Mills was largely self-taught, so far as a knowledge of the sculptor’s

art is concerned. In casting the face he showed much of the same
independence of tradition that he exhibited in his other art work. As
witnessed in Charleston, S. C., in 1845, his casting method was as
follows:
He first encases the head in a tight cap and then (the hair being thus put
out of the way) spreads the paste [plaster] over the casing, thereby obtain-
ing the head and forehead with all their phrenological developments. Remov-
ing, for a while, the segment thus formed that it may harden and cool (for,
although the paste is at first cool, yet it goes under a phase of temporary heat)
he soon replaces it, and proceeds to the completion of the work by spreading
the paste over the entire face, closing eyes, mouth and ears, and leaving only
the nostrils open for breath. The paste is inodourous and insipid, and produces
no unpleasant sensation; but, on the contrary, with the thermometer at 90, is
actually agreeable and refreshing by reason of its original coolness. It soon
hardens around its nucleus, forming a facsimile of every feature and muscle
and before the heating stage commences, by a gentle movement of the facial
muscles, it is broken into more or less fragments, which are caught in a towel
and recombined at the leisure of the artist. The whole operation is over in
15 minutes (Rutledge, 1949).

This is a very different method from the one used by Volk. Whereas
the latter built up the plaster over the face and allowed it to harden
for an hour so that it could be removed in one piece, Mills kept the
plaster thin over the face, allowed it to set for only 15 minutes, and
then had the sitter break the mold into pieces by movement of the
facial muscles. These factors, combined with the defects necessarily
introduced by the recombination of the fragments, would diminish the
accuracy of the reproduction.

Available copies of Mills’s life mask of Lincoln suggest that
Mills was still using in 1865 the method here described as witnessed
20 years earlier. For instance, the whole top of the head is included

2If we can reply on the inscription carved on the Fisk Mills bust of Lincoln now in

the Lincoln Museum in Washington, the date was February 11. Fisk was one of Clark
Mills’s sons,
LINCOLN—STEWART 425

with the face, but without any detail (is this the effect of the tight
cap’), the closed eyes are in detail, but much of the face, together
with the hair and beard, are somewhat blurred (is this the effect of
reassembling the fragments?). In spite of such defects, the fact
remains that Mills’s cast is a unique relic deserving of closer attention
than it has received.

In 1889, the year after the Volk casts were presented to the Govern-
ment, Clark Mills’s son, Theodore A. Mills, presented a plaster copy of
the second Lincoln mask to the National Museum (U.S.N.M. acces. No.
21843). ‘The original plaster copy is said to have been owned by
John Hay, at one time Lincoln’s assistant private sercetary ; its present
whereabouts is uncertain. R. R. Wilson stated (1935, p. 263), with-
out giving his source of information, that the plaster mask in the
Lincoln Museum in Washington is the one once owned by Hay, and
hence the original. The records of the Lincoln Museum have nothing
to say on this point. Thus, so far as now clearly established, the mask
in the National Museum has as good a claim as any to being the earliest
copy in existence.

THE CASTS COMPARED

Out of these historical considerations the following question
naturally arises: How do these two life masks, taken only 5 years
apart, compare in details? In answering this question we must re-
member what has been said about the different techniques used by the
two sculptors. Also that Lincoln was clean-shaven when the first
cast was made but later had a beard covering his chin and side cheeks.

Comparisons of the accompanying photographs reveal these facts—
and more: They show the same gauntness, the same pattern of skin
creases, the same prominent right lower lip; in other words, an as-
semblage of details in each case producing the same well-known ex-
pression. Actually, the beard and the differences in the casting
techniques seem to have contributed the main modifications,

On the negative side it is interesting to note the absence of any signs
indicating that the original molds had been divided along the midline
of the face. Sculptors sometimes cut the mold into two equal parts
before making the first positive impression, so that the mold can be
taken off easily and used over again. When this has been done the
crack between the two parts of the mold leaves a slight ridge along the
midline of the mask which usually can be detected even though the

* After this was written Dr. H. L. Shapiro illustrated in Natural History a bronze
replica of the Mills cast now owned by Clarence Hay of New York. He has told me also
that another member of the Hay family has a plaster replica. Lacking still, unfortunately,
is the documentation to show the Sequence in which these copies were made. We know
only that after the death of Clark Mills in 1883 his sons parted with two or three copies of

. the Lincoln mask, one (two?) going to Colonel Hay (1886), and another to the U. S.
National Museum (1889), ‘The Sequence of the gifts does not necessarily indicate the
Sequence of manufacture.
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

sculptor has tried to obliterate it. Probably, therefore, Volk and
Mills destroyed their original molds in the course of making the first
positive impressions.

When we next compare the details in the two versions of Lincoln’s
face by anthropometric caliper, we are confronted again by the mask-
ing effect of the beard and by the limitations of the sculptor’s art.
For example, the beard in the Mills mask interferes with the taking
of the length and width of the face; and the incomplete casting of the
ears makes it difficult to locate the borders of the ears.

To these difficulties must be added another, namely, the scarcity of
natural metrical landmarks on unyielding plaster casts. Whereas the
measurer, in working with the living face, is guided by the feel of the
underlying bone, in working with the mask he cannot get below what
was the surface of the skin. For this reason measurements made on
masks are larger than the same diameters taken in life; they are sub-
ject also to the measurer’s judgment as to where to place the caliper.

These considerations should be taken into account in assessing the
following standard facial measurements, which I have obtained on

the National Museum’s precious masks:
Volk’s mask Mills’s mask

Measurements

(defined in Stewart, 1952) Cae SEP
Total’ face height (menton-crmion) >... . e's se 2 194 ?
Lower face height (menton-nasion) ............. 122 ?
Hacelebresdthas(bizyLOmMatic) reer. i. cise te eilahele eee ieneners 148 im
Nose height. tes see rene (ouemed cxmisp> jobcvelaspeks ioyspil> o> 54 56
INOSG breadtie wus adote en mule ust cites ouen ou sBici aie ip iieinemeltamieure ite 38 38
Mouthgpreadin cra cncticcen sc cteriouec ere) aulemereietet se sciie cic teats 55 59
Hxternal ocular wilGtht . as caeves cmcme cteme «fete tons teat 102? 102
Har length (righty aies. 2. pee heath utente Mevlctetencatys (he 77? 78?
Har lengentClefeyosins irs Sajal Naess diskeve steparetsi ents 78 ?
Har breadth yitnicht), cu. 6 rotons fet siierciesycsomeue ober ous ere 43 46?
Harsbreadths (GEG) a mare ciic char e Reae. ec tictlsmeiea omens 39 37?

To appreciate better the difference between measuring the living face
and a cast thereof we may take the two figures for mouth breadth in
the above list. This measure is the extreme distance between the cor-
ners of the mouth. In life the measuring point at each corner of the
mouth can be identified readily by the color change that marks the edge
of the mucous membrane. Of course, this color guide, like the bone
guide, is lost in the masks. The resulting metrical difference may be
due to my faulty judgment, seconded by the blurring of detail in the
Mills mask.

Attention has been called already to the fact that the Mills mask
includes, in addition to the face, most of the vault of the head. If
this is a cast of the head taken over a cloth cap, a practice attributed to
Mills, the surface texture of this part of the cast does not supply
verification. My examination of the specimen, before I had read about
LINCOLN—STEWART 427

Mills’s technique, led me to believe that he had modeled this part of the
head from measurements. I can believe now that, if a head cast
actually was taken, Lincoln’s coarse and unruly hair might have im-
parted a lumpy effect to the cast and Mills might have been forced
to modify the surface. Also, whether he reduced the diameters of the
head beyond the surface of the compacted hair there is no sure way of
telling. Thus, the following head measurements, which I have taken
from the cast in the National Museum, are subject to this uncertainty:

Mm. Inches
Maximum@lensth=trompslabellateesmwensts: 2%. 6 cla. cue ciel 210 8%
Maximumipbreadthm(aboveears)) << dc. % 6 «6 6 «ee «oe 170 6146
Head height (position of poria and bregma estimated) .... 165 614
CircuiMmrerencem(ASPLOL Hab) eerie ere ete set cee Gre ee 578 22%
Arc between ear openings over bregma ..........-.... 370 14%
Gephalictindexja sy. 6s aier. a hte atels dis dere is sre aelarerte ¢ 81.0

For comparison with these figures we have Herndon’s statement
(Angle, 1949, p. 472): “The size of his hat measured at the hatter’s
block was seven and one-eighth, his head being, from ear to ear, six and
one-half inches, and from the front to the back of the brain eight
inches. Thus measured it was not below medium size.”

Commenting on Herndon’s figures, Nicolay reported (letter of 1895)
that he and Colonel Hay “made as careful measurement [of the cast
owned by Hay] as we could, with the result that from ear to ear it
measures 684 inches, and from the front to the back of the brain 734
inches. It is difficult to arrive at exact measurements, but the ones we
took applied to hatter’s block would give 714 or 73% as the size of
his hat. So you see it was fully as large as stated by Herndon.”

We come now to the hands, and here again we are confronted with
difficulties. In addition to those mentioned already, which for the
most part apply here also, we have to deal with flexed fingers. Pre-
sumably Volk regarded this form of hand as being both artistic and
easy to cast. However, the flexion of the fingers makes it hard to
evaluate hand size. All the standard measurements of the hand are
planned for the extended position of the fingers. This being the case,
we must improvise.

The distance across the second to fifth knuckles (metacarpopha-
langeal joints) amounts to 95 mm. on the left hand. The equivalent
distance is not readily obtained on the right, but seems to be no more
than 94mm. The circumference of the right wrist on the hand side of
the styloid process (the bony prominence on the same side of the wrist
as the little finger) is 188 mm.; that of the left wrist is 194mm. The
difference possibly is accentuated by the extension of the left wrist and
the flexion of the right.

A measure of the length of the fingers was obtained by stretching a
steel tape along the back of each finger from the edge of the nail
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

to the apex of the metacarpophalangeal knuckle. The results (in
mm.) follow:

Digits
if II It Iv Vi
D2gto1 1 RaNeMG) Ome Geer Suokona) ckowalscollald 7 88 183 143 139 115
ehte eects on ys eg) es er to ome 77? 137 148 141 117

To this may be added the dimensions of the nails of the left hand.
Only on this side are the details clear enough to yield accurate results.
The nails had been cut moderately short.

Nails
I II III IV V

Bem Cig Be feregatrtic sieve le ast oe as 17 15 15.5 13 14

BEC QU asc cyensiccy pp iictass Gi lhe) =) ae 16 12 13 pw ee 2)

So far as the hands have been compared, there seems to be a con-
sistent difference in size in favor of the left hand. Yet we are told
that the right was temporarily swollen. In a right-handed indi-
vidual, which I am assuming Lincoln to be, it is unusual for the left
hand to predominate in size. Nor am I able to account for this dif-
ference in the somewhat contrasting positions of the two hands. Prob-
ably the asymmetry, although unusual, was natural.

LINCOLN AND THE POPULATION OF HIS TIME

Up to this point we have been examining these unique casts and
comparing them one with the other, simply as isolated records. Be-
cause our first objective was to check one cast against another, the
scale provided by the casts themselves was sufficient. Now, however,
we want to see how Lincoln’s physical dimensions rank in the popula-
tion from which he arose. For this we need population figures to
serve asa scale. Accordingly, at this point we will consider Lincoln’s
place in the American population of his time.

It is hard to realize that Lincoln was born 144 years ago—in 1809;
it is harder still to realize that his was the first white generation born
in Kentucky. In 1775, only about 35 years prior to Lincoln’s birth,
Daniel Boone had successfully opened up the Kentucky area. Then
toward the end of the eighteenth century the Lincolns and the Hankses
had followed their friends the Boones and others down the Shenan-
doah Valley, through the Cumberland gap in the Shenandoah Moun-
tains, and up the Wilderness Road into the heart of Kentucky.

The people who participated in this movement were predominantly
English and Scotch by national extraction. We know this, of course,
not only from the history of American colonization but also from an
analysis of their names. As a matter of fact, most of the schedules
of names recorded in the First Census of 1790 are still in existence
(Rossiter, 1909). From this source we learn that the names “Lincoln”
(in all its various spellings) and “Hanks” are recorded for heads of
LINCOLN—STEWART 429

families 210 and 35 times, respectively; and that for all other members
of families these names are recorded 987 and 177 times, respectively.
There is every reason to believe, therefore, that our Lincoln was a
product of the seventeenth-century Anglo-Saxon migration to the New
World. The later descendants of this group have been called “Old
Americans.”

The physical characteristics of the Old Americans were first de-
scribed in 1925 by my predecessor in the National Museum, the late
Dr. Ales Hrdlicka. His sample was drawn partly from Virginia and
Tennessee and includes both mountain and lowland people. More
specifically he felt justified in including in this group—
those Americans whose ancestors on each side of the family were born in the
United States for at least two generations—in other words, all those whose
parents as well as all four grandparents were born in this country. The third
native generation of adults means roughly an ancestry on each side of the family
of at least 80 to 150 years American. As a matter of fact the mean “nativity”
of those examined was nearer the latter than the former figure and for the
whole series it probably surpassed an average of 150 years, for there were many
who on one or both sides exceeded the minimum requirement of three genera-
tions. In a large majority of cases the American ancestry of the one examined,
while only three or four generations on one side, extended to from four to eight
generations on the other; and there were fairly numerous instances where the
ancestry was pure native on both sides for four generations, while occasionally
it was five, six and in a few cases even seven generations (Hrdlicka, 1925,
pp. 4-5.)

Hrdlicka’s sample of Old Americans dates from the 1920’s. Thus
it comprises elements of at least the second and third generations after
Lincoln’s generation. Although there is good reason to believe that
the American population at large has been changing in its average
physical characteristics over the years, probably not much change
has taken place in this particular group. On the other hand,
Hrdli¢ka’s sample—less than 1,000 individuals—leaves much to be de-
sired by way of adequate inclusion of all elements of this widespread
population. This deficiency perhaps is reflected especially in the
ranges of characters. In spite of this defect, Hrdlitka’s Old Ameri-
cans is as near as we can get now to the population from which Lincoln
arose. Therefore, we will rely upon his figures for our main com-
parisons.

Stature.—Lincoln gives his height as “6 feet 4 inches, nearly” (letter
to J. W. Fell, Dec. 20, 1859; for facsimile see Oldroyd, 1883, p. 482).
That he was well above average in height is evident from Brady’s
photographs of the President with his generals at the battlefield
(Meserve and Sandburg, 1944). Also, there are personal recollections
of “his great height towering head and shoulders above them all”
(Rankin, 1916, p. 207).

Lincoln probably came by this great stature naturally, as the saying
goes. His father was 5 feet 10 inches; his mother, 5 feet 7 inches
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

(Angle, 1949, pp. 12-14; Hertz, 1940, pp. 353-854). These figures
(in inches) compare with the Old Americans as follows:

Average for Old Average for Old
Thomas Lincoln Abraham Lincoln angie on males Nancy Lincoln Se ON
70 76 68. 6 67 63. 7
Range Range
60. 5-76. 0 57. 3-69. 7

In addition we have the stature figures for 364 Civil War soldiers
from the then Fourth Congressional District of Kentucky, which
includes Larue County where Lincoln was born (Baxter, 1875).
These soldiers, born about 30 years after Lincoln, averaged 68.2 inches
and were among the tallest in the northern army. Unfortunately the
range of their statures is not given. We are justified in concluding,
however, that Lincoln’s stature was at the upper end of the range of
his fellow Old Americans.

Another interesting, but less direct, comparison is provided by
the Old American members of the National Academy of Sciences
(Hrdlitka, 1940). The Academy was established by President
Lincoln during the Civil War to advise the Government on scientific
matters. Between the years 1926 and 1933, Hrdli¢ka, himself a mem-
ber of the Academy, measured 150 members, including 100 who met
his requirements, quoted above, for Old Americans. These 100 sci-
entists had a mean stature of 68.4 inches, with a range from 61.7 to
74.7 inches. Lincoln’s height would not have been very conspicuous
among the taller members of this select company !

W eight.—Lincoln’s usual weight was around 180 pounds (Oldroyd,
1883, p. 482). Like most people of slender build, he did not get much
heavier than his usual weight, although, as we have seen, he lost
weight under stress. His father is described as having a “compact
build” and is said to have weighed 195 pounds in the latter part of
his life. His mother, from whom he seems to have inherited his
slender build, weighed about 130 pounds at the age of 23 years when
she married (Angle, 1949, pp. 12-14; Hertz, 1940, pp. 353-354). Here
obviously our comparison is complicated by the fact that individuals
may put on weight with age. However, of the three Lincolns probably
only the father, Thomas Lincoln, was of a build subject to considerable
weight change. Here again is how they compare (in pounds) with
the Old Americans:

; Average for Old Average for Old
Thomag Lincoln Abraham Lincoln ane males Nancy Lincoln American females
2 (203)
195 180 150. 3 130 127. 3
Range Range
111. 0-219. 5 86. 0-206. 0

Weight-height (gram-centimeter) index
497. 5 453. 6 390. 8 346. 5 356. 8
LINCOLN—STEWART 431

By this comparison both Abraham and Thomas Lincoln were above
average for their weight/stature. On the same basis Nancy Lincoln
was below average in weight/stature. All were well within the ranges
of their contemporaries.

Vault of head.—Because of uncertainties regarding Mills’s casting
of this part of the head, as already mentioned, I will point out merely
that the figures for maximum length and breadth are possible, but
extreme as compared with the Old Americans. Thus the figures for
length and breadth, 210 and 170, compare with maximums for the
group of 216 and 170, respectively. On the other hand, the cephalic
index derived from the Lincoln head diameters, 81.0, is near the middle
of the range for Old American males—69.7-90.9. The general shape
thus represented may be fairly accurate.

Face.—Measurements taken on the Lincoln face masks have been
given already. However, as explained in that connection, such meas-
urements are larger than the corresponding ones taken in life on the
same individual. So in order to compare our figures with Hrdliéka’s
Old Americans, the former must be corrected.

There is no need here to go into detail about deriving the corrections.
As it happens, the National Museum has a collection of face masks of
individuals who were measured at or near the time the masks were
made. By comparing the series of measurements made on the masks
with those made in life, some average differences are obtained which
constitute the corrections to be used here. In addition, I have used
my judgment in selecting the most reliable figures from those taken
on the Lincoln masks.

With this explanation I present a comparison of my estimated
measurements of Lincoln’s face (in mm.) with those of the Old
Americans:

Lincoln Old Americans Old Americans
(corrected (at large) (National Academy)
Diameter aed | -
eee Number | Average | Range | Number | Average | Range
Total face height (menton-

CrIMION) Rccots Hees, Tole oS. eaten s 186 443 188. 1 161-212 25 189. 0 168-216
Lower face height (menton-

MASION) ts 2 AP Me ee eS 116 594 121.9 103-141 100 120.7 104-142
Height of forehead (nasion-

CTINION) meeealeme reece ane cc 7 510 65: On| Eee See ee 25 (ly (al (es
Face breadth (bizygomatic) . . 142 594 139.2 | 128-158 100 139.6 128-152
Nose Height rs 1. pdvenerareye «ex 55 247 53.5 43-63 100 55.0 45-64
INoseibreadth! o: 3 s55 == © -.< 38 247 36.1 30-43 100 36.9 31-45
Mouth breadth ........ 55 247 53.7 45-66 92 56.6 47-67
Ear height jleitwaes . ixnen<y- 78 247 67.0 55-81 92 70. 2 61-84

Har breadth, left. ....... 40 247 37.9 30-46 92 39.4 34-46

432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

In viewing these figures the matter of age should be kept in mind.
Lincoln was 56 at the time the second mask was made. The Acade-
micians were older when measured; on the average, 59 years. But
the Old Americans in general tended to be younger. The effect of age
appears mainly in the dimensions of the mouth and ears, parts that
are not supported by bone. The result is that these features usually
get larger as age increases. However, age alone cannot be the cause
of Lincoln’s relatively long ears, or of his rather wide mouth.

Lincoln’s face was large in other respects, but, as figure 1 demon-
strates, always well within the range of the population with which

Total face height

Lower face height

Face breadth

Nose height
Nose breadth
Mouth breadth
Ear height, left

Ear breadth, left

10°) 20° 30 40~'= 50

Figure 1.—Estimated position of Lincoln’s face dimensions in the ranges of the Old Ameri-
cans. Solid horizontal lines=Old Americans at large; interrupted lines=Old Americans
in National Academy of Sciences.

he is identified. His large forehead height and face breadth across
the cheekbones are especially noteworthy. Perhaps, though, these
dimensions appear exaggerated because the face heights are slightly
below average.

It is interesting to note also that whereas Lincoln’s ear size is in
the upper part of the range of the Old Americans, his nose size,
and especially nose breadth, is in the lower part of this range.

One other point should be mentioned in this connection. Nose
height, lower face height, and forehead height have one landmark
in common—so-called “nasion” at the root of the nose. The location
of this landmark depends upon trying to estimate the position of the
nasofrontal suture in the underlying skull. When the observer lo-
LINCOLN—STEW ART 433

cates nasion below its true position, he increases the height of the
forehead and correspondingly decreases the height of the nose and
lower face. Of course, the reverse is the case when the observer locates
nasion above its true position. Obviously, these circumstances under-
mine the reliability of all measurements based on nasion.

Now the above figures suggest that, as compared to Hrdlitka,
I have placed nasion low. Whether this is so, or whether Lincoln
did have a lower-than-average face height and nose height with
a relatively high forehead, must remain in doubt. In spite of this
and other points of uncertainty, it is remarkable how nearly modal in
position Lincoln’s face measurements turn out to be when plotted
as in figure 1.

Hands.—The difficulty of comparing Lincoln’s hands metrically
has been explained. Although we cannot tell directly how big his
hands were on the scale of the Old Americans, we can get some
idea of their relative size by using another hand for intermediate
comparisons. My own will serve as well as any other. I am a little
under 6 feet in height and my hand falls well within the Old Ameri-
can range as the following figures (in mm.) show:

Aer a eke Old Americans (Left)
Wesethy. fos. 3) se Be Soe 198 (247) 192.8 Range: 172-223
Bresdthiseees es cheeks (eee eee we ee 90 (247) 91.8 Range: 77-110

When I hold my hands in the positions of the cast hands of Lincoln,
the distance across the second to fifth knuckles is 89 mm. on both sides.
This is only 5 or 6 mm. less than on the casts and probably would
scarcely be noticed in visual comparisons. A comparable measure of
Lincoln’s finger length—that is, from nail edge to the apex of the meta-
carpophalangeal knuckle—gives him an advantage amounting per-
haps to 20 mm., as shown in the following figures:

Lengths of Lincoln’s fingers Lengths of author’s fingers

Digits SSS SSS
Right Left Right Left
BRA PERIL, CRRA i Liss 88 77? 72 78
ie oe lost Acta giaw tanh = 133 137 116 115
IE a i lap igs al dase i va Me 143 148 129 129
2 EN <table 139 141 120 121
1 TS ay rok erent 115 tales 101 100

Although the apex of the knuckle is not an exact landmark for linear
measurement, the general metrical difference brought out in this table
can hardly be due to observational error. It seems quite likely,
therefore, that Lincoln had a hand which, like the rest
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

of his body, was long and narrow. As compared with the Old
Americans his hands must have been in the upper part of the range in
length (perhaps 218-220 mm.) and close to the average in breadth
(perhaps 95mm.). This relationship is shown graphically in figure 2.

Feet.—Drawings and “measurements” of Lincoln’s feet were made
on December 18, 1864, by Dr. Peter Kahler, the surgeon-chiropodist
who later developed a fashionable practice in New York City. The
drawings look as if they had been traced from stockinged feet. The
“measurements” are inscribed on the drawings without any indication
of how they were determined. The figure “12” appears in the toe of
the outline of the left foot and the figure “1214” in the right. It has
been assumed that these are maximum lengths in inches. If so, they

Hoaddength teteasih, eae eee Die

Hand breadth, left

Foot length, left -_——_——-—-—--—— sone angen e fe pa

Foot breadth, left

ae Stews Fee
10 . 20° 30. AD. 5) | 600
Figure 2.—Estimated position of Lincoln’s hand and foot dimensions in the ranges of Old

Americans. Solid horizontal lines=Old Americans at large; interrupted lines=Old
Americans in National Academy of Sciences.

slightly exceed the maximum figure recorded by Hrdlitka for Old
American males (305 vs. 296 mm. for the left). Maximum breadth
is not given, but it can be calculated from the drawing, assuming that
for the left foot 12 inches, or 805 mm., is maximum length. In this
way we arrive at a figure of 92 mm., which is well under the maximum
(111 mm.) recorded by Hrdlitka for the left foot in Old Americans.
The foot index (breadth Xx100/length) derived from these figures,
30.2, is slightly below the range (30.7-41.1) of Old American males.
Although Lincoln’s feet thus may have been relatively narrow, these
comparisons leave room for doubt that his feet were absolutely as long
as Dr. Kahler’s figures indicate.‘

4 After this was written, I arranged to have the Lincoln boots, preserved in the Lincoln
Museum, Washington, examined by an expert shoe fitter. This was made possible through
the courtesy of Stanley W. McClure, assistant chlef, National Memorial and Historic
Sites, U. S. Department of the Interior. In the opinion of J. W. Rogers, buyer for Julius
Garfinekel & Co. of Washington, the Lincoln boots are size 12B, according to the present siz-
ing standard. This means that Lincoln’s foot length was little if any more than 11 inches.
Mr. Rogers is of the opinion also that the numbers on the Kahler diagrams refer to
external shoe dimensions. ‘This seems to be borne out by the dimensions of this particular
pair of shoes. I can report also that the beaded moccasins, which the Chicago Historical
LINCOLN—-STEWART 435
CONCLUSIONS

The picture that emerges from these anthropological comparisons

is the well-known one of Lincoln: a man of tall and slender build.
But we see a little more clearly that only in the linear dimensions
was he unusual. He may have been long-bodied, long-armed, and
long-limbed, but he was not otherwise an overly big man. Even his
well-remembered handshake was not so much the result of his “great
hands” as of his long hands. This bears out William Herndon’s
description of Lincoln’s physique (Hertz, 1940, p. 413) :
In sitting down on a common chair or bench or ground, he was from the top
of his head down to his seat no better than the average man; his legs and arms
were, as compared with the average man, abnormally, unnaturally long, though
when compared to his own organism, the whole physical man, these organs may
have been in harmony with the man. His arms and hands, feet and legs, seemed
to me, aS compared with the average man, in undue proportion to the balance
of his body. It was only when Lincoln rose on his feet that he loomed up above
the mass of men. He looked the giant then.

A stature of 6 feet 4 inches is not generally thought of in the United
States as extraordinary; yet statistically it is fairly uncommon, for
it is to be found in only a small fraction of 1 percent of the male
population. To Lincoln, the politician, this meant that he would be
conspicuous in any ordinary assembly. During the Lincoln-Douglas
debates, for example, an audience might not have recognized Douglas
immediately, but they could not miss Lincoln—or forget his height
and build. From this remembrance of linear bigness it was easy to
slip into exaggerations of other body proportions, especially if one
had come under the spell of Lincoln’s personality and mind.

The precious replicas of Lincoln’s face provided by Volk and Mills,
and preserved in the Nation’s Capital for all to see, are the most
reliable of all such reproductions so far as now known. Unquestion-
ably they provide sure evidence that from the physical standpoint
Lincoln was a fairly typical member of the American pioneer stock.

The meaning of other details of these masks, as, for instance, the
skin folds and facial asymmetries, may be read with less certainty
and even with more or less conscious bias. In this connection atten-

Society obtained recently at the sale of the Barrett-Lincoln collection, have been measured
for me by Dr. Paul M. Angle, secretary and director. By inserting wooden strips cut to
different lengths, Dr. Angle decided that 11 inches was the length of foot most likely to
have been comfortably accommodated in the left moccasin. (Personal communication
dated November 13, 1952.)

Substituting the figure 11 (or 279 mm.) in the calculations outlined above, we get a
foot breadth of 84 mm. and a foot index of 30.1 for Lincoln's left foot. This foot breadth,
as shown in figure 2, is just above the minimum (82) for Hrdli¢ka’s Old Americans.

Dr. Louis A. Warren, director of the Lincoln National Life Foundation, Fort Wayne,
Ind., has called my attention to newspaper clippings in the collection of the Foundation
_ Showing rather different outlines (claimed to be originals) of Lincoln’s feet. This sug-
gests that the outline published by Kahler may be a somewhat smoothed-out version of
the original tracing.
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

tion is called to a recent (1952) study of the Volk mask by Dr. Edward
J. Kempf in which the following statement appears (p. 4): “There is
an unusual depression in the forehead of the mask, with a palpable
edge, near the midline above the left eye. This deformation indicates
the place of fracture of [Lincoln’s] skull.” On this subjective and
hence shaky premise is then erected an elaborate neuropsychiatric
edifice in explanation of Lincoln’s appearance, habits, and character.
We are not told how far removed from the original mold was the
particular mask which was examined, or why irregularities in the skin
surface can only represent a fracture of the underlying bone. For
my part I am unable to detect anything in the copies of the Volk and
Mills masks in the National Museum that I would interpret as evidence
of fracture.
REFERENCES

ANotr, PAut M. (editor).
1949. Herndon’s Life of Lincoln. New York.
Baxter, J. H.

1875. Statistics, medical and anthropological, of the Provost-Marshal-
General’s Bureau, derived from records of the examination for
military service in the armies of the United States during the late
War of the Rebellion, of over a million recruits, drafted men, substi-
tutes, and enrolled men. 2 vols. Washington.

CHITTENDEN, L. B.

1901. Recollections of President Lincoln and his administration. New York.
DuRMAN, DONALD CHARLES.

1951. He belongs to the ages. The statues of Abraham Lincoln. Ann Arbor.
HaArtT, CHARLES HENRY.

1899. Browere’s life masks of great Americans. New York.
HERTz, HMANUEL.

1940. The hidden Lincoln. From the letters and papers of William H.
Herndon. New York.

HrpviiéKa, ALES.

1925. The Old Americans. Baltimore.

1940. Observations and measurements on the members of the National
Academy of Sciences. Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 23, No. 3.

KAHLER, PETER.
1899. Dress and care of the feet. New York.
Kempr, Epwarp J.
1952. Abraham Lincoln’s organic and emotional neurosis. Amer. Med.
Assoc. Arch. Neurol. and Psychol., vol. 67, pp. 419-433.
MESERVE, FREDERICK Hirt, and SANDBURG, CARL.
1944. The photographs of Abraham Lincoln. New York.
NICOLAY, JOHN G.
[1895.] (Letter to David McWilliams of Dwight, Ill., dated December 2.)
Ms. Div., Library of Congress, Washington.
OLDROYD, OsporNn H.

1883. Lincoln memorial: Album-immortelles. Original life pictures, with
autographs, from the hands and hearts of eminent Americans and
Europeans, contemporaries of the great martyr to liberty, Abraham
Lincoln. Together with extracts from his speeches, letters, and
sayings. New York.
LINCOLN—STEWART 437

RANKIN, HENRY B.
1916. Personal recollections of Abraham Lincoln. New York.
Rossirrr, W. S.
1909. A century of population growth from the First Census of the United
States to the Twelfth, 1790-1900. U. S. Dept. Comm. and Labor,
Bur. Census, Washington.
RuriLepGe, ANNA WELLS.
1942, Cogdell and Mills, Charleston sculptors. Mag. Antiques, vol. 41, No.
8, pp. 192-193.
1949. Artists in the life of Charleston, through Colony and State from
restoration to reconstruction. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., Phila-
delphbia, n. s., vol. 39, pt. 2, pp. 145-146.
SHAPIRO, HARRY L,
1953. Was Lincoln a “mountaineer”? Nat. Hist., vol. 62, No. 2, pp. 57-62, 90.
SHUTES, Mitton H.
1933. Lincoln and the doctors. A medical narrative of the life of Abraham
Lincoln. New York.
STEWART, T. D.
1952, Hrdlitka’s Practical anthropometry. 4th ed. Philadelphia.
VOLK, LEONARD W.
1881. The Lincoln life-mask and how it was made. Century Mag.,
December, pp. 223-228.
WEIK, JESSE W.
1922. The real Lincoln. A portrait. Boston.
WETMORE, ALEXANDER.
1936. Two original photographic negatives of Abraham Lincoln. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, No. 18.
WILSON, RuFUs ROCKWELL.
1935. Lincoln in portraiture. New York.
4] iakh Pcp 1 at al :

; Radi? oat i aa eg |
“een fin”! ae ae, :
eet ck

; pie shies oy peek int Pt a

} lien 3 ar’
if
.

| iba oT tess
it ee

} a ek Aes on
| = i \ ’ ah: eth iis!
| 9.04 Tsar S 0 si toy soit aati

ape
4

Sidaiotaie, fis aid ome

Ly Anois s te mI tga Sonim te.
pany AAS) gh Sig
og fe poise al gine eee tee
. = +1

Pet ee it) a Ame to "pir dngea Peeper r
| eid ay

‘ ae wav
the | ee © f. VI
‘ Me a
> den (pare ore: dnt

Lata We

(Py iter hs ale ita. ‘

er n° viens 7th and oyteert aha er, + Is “4 *, : *
— Pd il > L "| ‘ * aay ,
4fcr Sen ee ‘AH; 7, Mas. CP. a y
- ee Ww
, ¥, en if AAT ais Ai al th er x wate nen 7
a a i {¥,

i he ?
se be TT

i 2 bathe ' wt eS " ae ed reece we 398A M
; ii ‘he 1 Y CFB, a semaine Me oh iB

* rey

Littely sgrdaustee Buna: palephtlta: Cia ra
puttraure Mtg alot. ieee Cat Jnartgyot eda
Bute, Sy ogi bet OF ha mel raat
idacch. “Toihie: 99h osfveats Fens at

« pyle 7 -
raph Mut Teak Ty te ince
9 De. rae
' ba ab * - ire
' o Paes v
c ' ee
ats pa 7 (pm &
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Stewart PLATE 1

FULL-FACE VIEW OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM'S BRONZE COPY OF THE VOLK LIFE
MASK OF LINCOLN

This version was made by Volk in 1886 from the original plaster copy. Note the artifact

in the left nasolabial fold. Photograph (copyrighted) reproduced through the courtesy

of Lloyd C. Henbest.
Smithsonion Report, 1952.—Stewart PLATE 2

LEFT PROFILE VIEW OF THE SAME BRONZE MASK AS SHOWN IN PLATE 1

Photograph (copyrighted) reproduced through the courtesy of Lloyd G. Henbest
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1592.—Stewart

‘ysoquayy] *5) pAoyT jo Asaqinos 24 ysnoryy
peonpoidea (parysisAdoo) ydeisojoyg *saidoo Jaqse]d [eurs110 247 WOIZ Ogg] Ul ¥JOA Aq OpPUl 919M SUOISIOA asoy ]

SONVH S.NIOONIT 4AO SiSYD S.HY10A SO SHIdOD AZNOYg S.WNaSnW TIVNOILYN 3SHL

PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Stewart

“\soquayy “5 pAoyT jo Asaqinos ayy ysno1yy peonpoidal (pe1ysisAdos) sydeiz0joug ‘688 Ul UOS S,S{[LJA Aq poleuop SYM UOISIOA SIU],

NTOONI7 JO MSYW 34SI1 STUIW SHL 3O SAIdOD YSALSV1d S,.WNASNW IWNOILWN SHL JO SM3IA 3WNS40'"d ANV 39V5-711NA

The Use of Music in the Treatment of the
Sick by American Indians?

By Frances DENSMORE

Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

[With 4 plates]

Two methods of treating the sick were used by the American In-
dians in early days and are continued to some extent at the present
time. One method involves the private ministrations of a doctor or
medicine man and the other a public ceremony, conducted by a num-
ber of doctors, attended by many people, and often continued for
several days. Music is an important phase of each method and con-
sists of singing by the doctor or his assitants and the shaking of a
rattle or beating of a drum. The songs used in these treatments are
said to come from supernatural sources in “dreams” or visions, and
with them come directions for procedure and a knowledge of the
herbs to be used.

Both methods were seen and described by the White men who first
went among the Indians, but a study of the songs was made possible
only by the recording phonograph, which came into use about 1890.
The study of recordings of Indian songs may be compared to the work
of a chemist in his laboratory. By this means the structure of the
melody can be determined and the song transcribed as nearly as pos-
sible in musical notation.

Another factor contributing to our understanding of Indian medi-
cal practice is the development of educated interpreters with a knowl-
edge of both English and Indian idioms. The missionaries were the
first teachers of the Indians, and among the first English words
learned by Indians were those connected with the religious teaching
of the period. Such words were applied to many Indian customs that
the White men did not understand, and the terms “superstition”
and “witchcraft,” as well as words of highest spiritual import, were
attached to Indian customs. These terms became permanent and, to a

1 Reprinted by permission from ‘Music and Medicine,’ Henry Schuman, New York.
236639—53——29 439
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

large extent, have influenced the White man’s opinion of the Indian.
Similiarly the terms “music” and “singing” were applied to Indian
performances. These did not please the White man, and there is still
a reluctance to regard music as an important phase of Indian culture
worthy of our consideration.

Early ethnologists attended the healing ceremonies of the Indians
but did not write of individual treatment by the Indian doctors. The
first ethnologist we shall quote is the Rev. Clay MacCauley,? who went
among the Seminoles in the winter of 1880-81. He attended the annual
Green Corn Dance and heard a “medicine song” which was sung as
a certain medicine was drunk; the belief was that unless one drank of
it he would be sick at some time in the year. MacCauley’s Seminole
informant refused to sing the song for him after the feast, saying that
he would “certainly meet with some harm” if he did so. This refusal
shows an early connection between music and health. MacCauley
stated clearly that he did not know what part incantation or sorcery
played in the healing of the sick. One of the most important papers by
early ethnologists is “The Mountain Chant: a Navajo Ceremony,” *
by Dr. Washington Matthews. The author selected the mountain
chant from among other Navajo ceremonies because he witnessed it
the most frequently. Like other great rites of the Navajo, it was of 9
days’ duration. The shaman, or medicine man, who was master of
ceremonies, was known as the chanter, and the ceremony was “ostensi-
bly to cure the sick.” The myth concerning the origin of the mountain
chant (Dsilyidje Qacal) relates that “many years ago ... the Navajo
had a healing dance in the dark corral; but it was imperfect, with few
songs and no kethawns or sacrificial sticks.” Dr. Matthews describes
a ceremony that he attended on October 1, 1884, at a place on the
Navajo Reservation about 20 miles northwest of Fort Wingate,
N. Mex., and he presents descriptions and illustrations of the four won-
derful pictures on sand (drypaintings) that were used on that occa-
sion. The patient was a middle-aged woman and the treatment
included “prayer, song and rattling.” No information concerning the
songs or the form of the rattle is presented.

A remarkable study of the individual treatment of the sick, in con-
trast to the ceremonial, was made by James Mooney,‘ who collected
in 1887 and 1888 about 600 sacred formulas of the Cherokees. The
original manuscripts were transferred to the Bureau of American Eth-
nology. These manuscripts “were written by the shamans of the tribe,
for their own use, in the Cherokee characters invented by Skiwa’ya

2MacCauley, C., The Seminole Indians of Florida, 5th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
(1883-84), pp. 469-531, 1888.

25th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. (1883-84), pp. 379-467, 1888.

4Mooney, J., The sacred formulas of the Cherokees, 7th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
(1885-86), pp. 301-397, 1892.
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 441

(Sequoyah) in 1821. Some of these manuscripts are known to be at
least thirty years old, and many are probably older.” Eleven of the
formulas are for the treatment of the sick, and the use of songs is men-
tioned in connection with the treatment of snake bite, “the great chill”
(intermittent fever), and an ailment which “from the vague descrip-
tion of symptoms . . . appears to be an aggravated form of bilious-
ness.” The formula for the treatment of chill “begins with a song of
four verses, in which the doctor invokes in succession the spirits of the
air, of the mountain, of the forest, and of the water.” In a serious
case the doctor follows the song with a prayer to the whirlwind
“which is considered to dwell among the trees on the mountain side,
where the trembling of the leaves gives the first intimation of its pres-
ence.” ‘The doctor directs the whirlwind “to scatter the disease as
it scatters the leaves of the forest, so that it shall utterly disappear.”

Mooney found that “like most primitive people the Cherokees be-
lieve that disease and death are not natural, but are due to the evil in-
fluence of animal spirits, ghosts or witches.” He quotes Haywood,
who stated that “in ancient times the Cherokees had no conception of
anyone dying a natural death,” and presents a Cherokee myth concern-
ing the origin of both disease and medicine. According to this myth,
the animals and all living creatures were happy together until man
came and began killing them for food and clothing. They then held a
council for their safety and protection. The decision was that each
group of animals should inflict a disease upon man. The deer resolved
to inflict rheumatism upon every hunter who killed one of their num-
ber without asking pardon for the offense. They sent notice of this
resolution to the nearest settlement of Indians and told them how to
avoid giving offense when necessity forced them to kill one of the deer
tribe. The plants were friendly to man and determined to defeat the
evil design of the animals. “Each tree, shrub, and herb, down even
to the grasses and mosses, agreed to furnish a remedy for some one
of the diseases ... When the doctor is in doubt what treatment to
apply for the relief of a patient, the spirit of the plant suggests to
him the proper remedy.”

To such beliefs the student finds parallels in recent times in widely
separated tribes and in customs that the Indians follow without giv-
ing any reason for their observance. The Papago in southern Arizona
told the writer of their belief that every disease is caused by an animal
or spirit which imparts the secret of its cure to a favored doctor. A
song is taught to him as an essential part of the treatment. Among the
Algonkins it is still customary for a doctor to put tobacco in the
ground when he digs a medicinal herb and to “talk a little,” asking
the herb to help the sick person. In the old days a hunter apologized

® Haywood, John, Natural and aboriginal history of Tennessee, pp. 267-268, 1823.
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

to an animal before killing it, saying its flesh was needed for food.
The belief in a nature that was friendly to man has always been strong.
The Indians did not have the White man’s idea of “conquering na-
ture.” Many offerings have been construed by White men as propi-
tiation when, to the Indians, they were simply gifts to a friend. An
exchange of gifts is a common custom, and the Indians acknowledged
thus the bounty of nature. Careful interpreters have explained to the
writer that the native term did not suggest anger on the part of the
spirit to whom the gift was offered. This harmony between man
and nature may seem apart from our subject, but it is important to
an understanding of Indian therapy. It was the desire of the Indian
doctor to restore what he believed to be a natural condition of health,
strength, and long life, such as he saw in the natural world. The In-
dians believed in the existence of evil spirits but also believed that the
medicine men had power over them. The laity did not attempt to
deal with evil spirits.

Both the individual and ceremonial methods of treating the sick
were studied among the Chippewa (Ojibwa) of Minnesota by Dr. W.
J. Hoffman. Singing and the shaking of a rattle or beating of a
drum were essential parts of both methods of treatment. The sick
man was first treated in hishome. A member of the Midewiwin would
give him a medicinal broth, singing and shaking his rattle as the
patient drank. The songs of the Midewiwin are represented by
mnemonics, or song pictures; 150 of these were collected by Hoffman
with translations of the words, and 18 were transcribed in musical
notation. Typical of the words are “The spirit saw me and gave me
medicine from above” and “It is also on the trees, that from which I
take life.” If this first treatment was not successful, the sick man
would be carried to the lodge of the Midewiwin and treated by a
number of its members in a ceremonial manner. If his condition be-
came hopeless, the singing was generally continued until life was
extinct. Since health and long life, as well as a right mode of living,
were among the teachings of the Midewiwin, this extensive use of music
is important to our subject.

The writer began her study of the Midewiwin and its songs in 1907
by attending a ceremony at Onigum on Leech Lake, Minn. This
ceremony was conducted for Flat Mouth, the last hereditary chief of
the Pillager band of Chippewa, who was very ill. His condition had
been pronounced hopeless by the government physician, and he had
asked that the native treatment be permitted. The request was
eranted. Eight members of the Midewiwin were summoned and
sang in Flat Mouth’s wigwam for several days and nights. As he

®* Hoffman, W. J., The Midé’wiwin or “Grand Medicine Society” of the Ojibwa, 7th Ann.
Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. (1885-86), pp. 143-300, 1892.
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 443

showed no improvement, a ceremony of the Midewiwin was instituted.
Flat Mouth was carried outdoors and placed in the center of an en-
closure formed of low branches of trees. There the doctors of the
Midewiwin moved around hin, singing their songs and ministering
to him. The writer stood outside the enclosure listening to the songs
for many hours. As the end approached, Flat Mouth was carried
into his wigwam, and in a short time the firing of a gun announced
the passing of his spirit.

Ki - ma - ni- do - we hi na wa ki - ma - ni-do-we
2 <a wer wa)
_ 3
hi nawa ki - ma-ni-do-we hinawa ki - ma-ni-do-we

ma - ni-do- we hi na wa ki - ma-ni-do-we hi nawa ki-

ma-ni-do - we hi nawa ki - ma-ni-do-we hi na wa hi

Ficure 1.—Chippewa healing song, recorded by Ge’ miwiinac’.

Words
gCTARTI ONG COI Sisal OSG te ae EA SNe rk OC a eee ike Elna a et, pet ean og You are a spirit.
Wimanid oawinn 4 2s AOL 2h Ase 2 FOOD I am making you a spirit.
Bndsthabiyane ss Lo) Vel toe bor oa Wei 2 ke o In the place where I sit.
Kinianidoewatnee = Tse Mitt SLs iy BIE I am making you a spirit.

A few weeks later the writer returned to Leech Lake with a phono-
graph to begin her work of recording Indian songs for the Bureau
of American Ethnology. There she met Ge’ miwtinac’ (bird that flies
through the rain), the aged member of the Midewiwin who had charge
of the ceremony for Flat Mouth. She asked whether he would record
some of the songs heard at that time. He replied that he was so over-
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

come during the last hours of Flat Mouth’s life that he could not recall
exactly what songs were sung, but he did record a song that he generally
sang under such circumstances (fig. 1).

The writer’s study of the Midewiwin and the treatment of the sick
was continued at White Earth, Minn., where Hoffman had witnessed
a ceremony of the society in 1889. Certain Chippewa remembered
him and aided the later work which continued to some extent his earlier
research on the subject (Cf. p. 454.)

A certain class of Chippewa doctors are not of necessity members
of the Midewiwin. They claim to summon spirits and commune
with them. Such men do not administer remedies but rather impress
their patients by exhibitions of various sorts intended to show their
magic power. They are commonly called jugglers and are here desig-
nated as medicine men. The Jesuit Fathers met them early in the
seventeenth century and called them “magiciens et consulteurs du
manitou” (spirits). In their demonstrations they are tightly bound
and placed in a small conical tipi. They sing, the structure sways as
though in a tempest, and strange sounds are heard; these sounds
are said to be the voices of spirits communing with the medicine
man. Nor has this custom entirely passed away. The writer wit-
nessed it in 1930 at Grand Portage, an isolated Chippewa village
on the north shore of Lake Superior, where for about two hours in
the quiet of a summer evening the little tipi swayed as though a
mighty wind were blowing. The next day the medicine man said
that he had summoned the spirits to learn whether they would help
him cure a certain sick man. Without that assurance he was unwill-
ing to take the case. He added that the spirits “spoke loud and clear”
so he was sure his treatment would be successful. A day or two
later a “beneficial dance” was held under his direction for the man,
whose illness had been diagnosed by a physician and a nurse as “ap-
parently typhoid fever.” They told the man to keep quiet and re-
main in bed. The dance was held in an enclosure at his door, and a
generous feast was cooked and served. The writer attended the dance
and listened to the songs, and about two weeks afterward she was
informed that the man had recovered.

At Santo Domingo Pueblo, N. Mex., as among the Chippewa, the
private treatment of the sick may be followed by treatment in a public
ceremony. The healing customs of this pueblo were described and 10
of its healing songs recorded in Los Angeles by a man from the pueblo.
He said, “If the doctors who give herb remedies fail to help a patient,
the medicine men of the Flint society may be summoned.” This is a
medicine society which goes into retreat before a communal rabbit
hunt and follows the retreat with a ceremony much like that used to
bring rain or secure good crops. The members of the society, usually
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 445

15 or 16 in number, go to the house of the sick man, arriving early in
the evening. They shake their black gourd rattles and sing until
about midnight, with pauses for relaxation and smoking at intervals
of about eight songs. If the patient is a woman they may ques-
tion her and ask her friends what she has done to bring on the sick-
ness. Then they consult among themselves as to her condition and
chances of recovery. There is much ceremonial procedure, including
the making and effacing of a meal-painting (“altar”) on which cer-
tain ceremonial articles are placed. The medicine men “call on the
birds and animals,” whose voices are distinctly heard. They look
in a crystal ball and make use of a special song with these words:

I am fighting to cure you.

I will suck out what is hurting you, to cure you.

The things I shall take out are the things that are causing your sickness.

Now I shall take Mother-bear and put her under my arm

As I get ready to look in the crystal, and I will help you.

Help us all.

Thank you.

“Mother-bear” refers to the “bear-paws” or “mittens” which the
medicine man puts over his hands. They consist of the skin of the
forelegs of the bear, with the paws. It is said that the people “never
deny what a medicine man says he sees in the crystal.”

We have dwelt somewhat at length of the circumstances under
which the Indians sing their healing songs. Let us now consider the
men and women who sing them and the characteristics of the songs.

I have known the Indian doctors in many tribes, from British Co-
lumbia to Florida, and the acquaintance in some instances has con-
tinued for several years. Without exception they were quiet, conserva-
tive men and women, constituting a definite type and respected in
their several tribes. They prepare themselves for their calling by
a fast in which they receive their “dream” or vision, and they live
strictly in accordance with the requirements of that dream. They
do not take part in social affairs, but they are not antagonistic to-
ward them. Doctors do not expect to be understood, nor do they
seek companionship. A doctor’s wife is usually his principal helper.
Through this isolation comes a deepened sense of companionship
with all living creatures and an awareness of nature in all its
manifestations.

Three women who were engaged in the practice of medicine told
me of their work. These were Owl Woman, the Papago (cf. p. 450),
Susie Tiger (a Seminole of the northern or Cow Creek group living
in the cabbage-palm country), and Mrs. Washington, of the Northern
Ute. Susie Tiger recorded five songs which she was using in her
_treatment of the sick. These included songs for lumbago, for a sick
baby, for bringing a child into the world, a song addressed to the
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

“white sun-lady,” and a song addressed to the dying in which she
besought the spirit to turn back before reaching nine different places
in the journey. Mrs. Washington gave no material remedies, for she
claimed to have supernatural power. Her specialty was the treat-
ment of illnesses caused by an evil influence proceeding from some
person. She recorded six of her songs and said that she usually sang
them when the sun was at a height corresponding to its position at
about 10 o’clock on a summer morning.

Indian doctors were primitive psychologists. They studied their
patients and did not always consider it necessary to give medicine.
In Santo Domingo Pueblo it was believed that personal jealousy
might cause illness, and in a certain northern tribe the patient was
sometimes told to “get up a dance and have a big time” and he would
be well again. There has been also a distinct feeling that such treat-
ment deserved a fee. Natawika, a Menominee doctor, said, “The
medicine will not work unless they pay for it.” She had no fixed fee
but required the patient to give what he was able—perhaps a little
tobacco, a handkerchief, or about four yards of calico. Natawika
died in 1918 and this information was supplied by her daughter.
Eagle Shield, a Sioux doctor, described a case for which he received a
large fee consisting of $100, a new white tent, a revolver, and a steer.

It has been said that primitive treatment of the sick is charac-
terized by affirmation. I have found this practice less frequently
in the words of the songs than in the doctor’s speech before begin-
ning the treatment. At that time he often tells the source of his
power and sometimes relates his former successes. The source of his
power is generally a bird or animal known to have great strength,
or something in nature that is connected with vibration, such as the
wind or the “great water” when it is seething and in motion, or a
mountain shaken with mysterious “spirit power.” An example of
affirmation occurs in a ceremonial song of the Chippewa Midewiwin
containing these words:

You will recover, you will walk again.

It is I who say it. My power is great.

Through our white shell (emblem of the Midewiwin)
I will enable you to walk again.

There are differences of custom between tribes and between indi-
vidual doctors, but the prevailing characteristic of Indian healing
songs is irregularity of accent. Sometimes this takes the form of
unexpected interruptions of a steady rhythm and sometimes there is
a peculiar rhythmic pattern throughout the melody. It is my custom
to transcribe the phonograph records of Indian songs in musical no-
tation, using ordinary indications. Thus the transcriptions contain
frequent changes of measure lengths. Indians never “sing with ex-
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 447

pression”; the singing of an Indian doctor is entirely monotonous.
By this manner of presentation the rhythm is impressed on the mind
of the patient. The rhythmic pattern holds his attention and, in
some instances, may be somewhat hypnotic in effect. Certain healing
songs are sung many times, while others are sung a definite number
of times, usually three, four, or five. Some doctors have songs for
beginning and ending a treatment, and others have special songs for
each of the four divisions of the night. Such details of procedure are
in accordance with the instructions received by the doctor in his
dream.

Songs used for treatment of the sick have been recorded by the
writer in the following tribes and in British Columbia: Cheyenne,
Chippewa, Makah and Clayoquot (at Neah Bay, Wash.), Menominee,
Papago, Seminole, Sioux, Northern Ute, Winnebago, and Yuma.
Healing songs were also recorded by Tule Indians from Panama
and by Indians from Acoma and Santo Domingo Pueblos.’ Except for
a few British Columbian and Tule songs, the recordings were made
by doctors who were using the songs in their treatment of the sick.
Many songs of the Chippewa Midewiwin are connected with cere-
monies believed to benefit or cure the sick but are not songs of in-
dividual doctors, related to the treatment of specific diseases, acci-
dents, or physical conditions. They are accordingly omitted in the
following analysis, which is limited to songs used definitely in treat-
ing the sick. The total number of such songs recorded and tran-
scribed in musical notation is 197; many others have been studied and
were found to be similar in structure.

Mention has been made of a change of accent, or irregular rhythm,
in many Indian songs for the sick. A tabulation of these 197 songs,
from 14 localities, shows that such a change occurs in 173, or about
88 percent of the number. In a similar analysis of 1,510 songs of
all classes, from many tribes, only 83 percent contain a change of
accent. In many Indian performances there is a difference in the

™The writer’s study of music in the following tribes did not include songs for the sick:
Arapaho, Alabama, Choctaw, Cocopa, Hidatsa, Maidu, Mandan, Omaha, Yaqui, and Zuni
and Cochiti Pueblos. Nor were songs of this class included in recordings of Indian songs
secured at Anvik, Alaska, by Dr. AleS Hrdlitka and transmitted to the Bureau of American
Ethnology. Iroquois ceremonial songs were recorded by J. N. B. Hewitt. The study of
Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Maidu music and that of Santo Domingo Pueblo was under the
auspices of the Southwest Museum of Los Angeles, Calif. A portion of the records made
for the Southwest Museum were presented to the Bureau of American Ethnology after
being transcribed. The remainder, and also the records made for the State Historical
Society of North Dakota, were retained by the sponsors of the undertakings after the
records had been transcribed and copies made for the Bureau. ‘The writer's recordings,
comprising more than 2,500 songs, constitute the Smithsonian-Densmore collection of
Indian song recordings. They were transferred to the National Archives in 1940, where
they were cataloged and where she wrote a handbook of the collection. In 1948 they
were transferred to the Library of Congress, and she has selected songs that are now being
issued in a series of 10 long-playing records, each accompanied by a descriptive pamphlet.
These are available to the public.
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

metric unit, or tempo, of the voice and accompanying instrument,
but this does not characterize the songs for the sick. Only 34 of
these songs were recorded with accompaniment, but the metric unit
of voice and accompaniment was the same in 24, constituting about
70 percent of the number. The accompaniment was faster than the
voice in six and slower in four songs. A small drum was substituted
for the usual rattle when recording these songs. As one purpose
of Indian healing songs is to quiet the patient, a tabulation was made
also of the tempo of the 197 recorded songs. This shows that 59 songs
were sung slowly (J=40 to J=104) constituting 30 percent of the
number. In a previous tabulation of 710 songs of all classes in three
tribes, the largest groups have a more rapid tempo ( j=76 to J=104).
The latter may be considered the general tempo of Indian songs,
though many are much more rapid.

The foregoing analysis shows that the characteristics of recorded
Indian songs for the sick are irregularity of rhythm in the melody,
a slow tempo, and a coincidence of voice and accompaniment. As
the songs under consideration are typical, it is believed that the results
would be the same if the analysis included a larger number of such
songs.

The ownership of a song, as indicated, was with the man or woman
who received it in a dream. Others might know the song and be
asked by the owner to sing with him in order to add their power to
his in a case of serious illness, but they could not use such songs with
authority unless granted that privilege by the original owner. He did
not relinquish his own use of the song by this action. Among the
Menominee and in some other tribes there was a rule that a man seek-
ing to buy a song and its manner of use must make the request four
times, on consecutive nights, and that each request must be accom-
panied by a gift. The owner would then teach the song, explain its
use, and show a specimen of the herb to be employed with it. He did
not transfer the plant; this the inquirer had to identify from memory
and find for himself.

Two types of Cheyenne doctors in Oklahoma have recorded their
songs for healing the sick. These are Bob-tailed Wolf, who received
his songs and power direct from supernatural sources, and Turtle,
who obtained most of his songs from an older doctor, and received
only one song himself. That song was taught to him by a spirit
buffalo.

Bob-tailed Wolf treats all forms of illness. Power has come to
him in many dreams, but the first manifestation was connected with
an experience in a thunderstorm. He was traveling on horseback
when the storm arose. A bolt of lightning knocked him unconscious
and killed his horse. On the fourth night after this occurrence he
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 449

had a dream in which he was told how to treat the sick. The day
was clear when he recorded that song for the writer, but within an
hour the rain was falling heavily. He said this always happened
when he sang this song. The word “grandfather” occurring in the
song refers to the thunderbird. The song may be translated:

My grandfather has come to see me and taken pity on me and given me this

power.
Another song recorded by Bob-tailed Wolf refers to the sun as “my
grandfather.” With his songs he uses a rattle made of stiff rawhide;
a face is painted on one side, the handle is wrapped with deerskin, and
formerly a buffalo tail was attached to it. Bob-tailed Wolf is a
prominent member of the Peyote organization (Native American
Chuch) and was photographed in his costume as a leader in its
ceremony.

It is interesting to learn that a man holding such a high position
and allied to such sources of supernatural power is also a man who
“understands what babies say” and treats their small ailments. Bob-
tailed Wolf says that when he is treating sick babies they tell him
where they feel bad. He received his power with them in the fol-
lowing manner: One day he came upon a covey of little plovers
hardly old enough to walk. He was about to take them away when
the mother came and said, “Indian, don’t take them; I love them and
they are so pretty. If you will spare them I will give you power
to treat sick babies.” He accordingly refrained from taking the
tiny birds and their mother told him to use water in treating sick
babies, instructing him to apply it to their bodies and to use it without
herbs. What appear to be words in his song for the babies are not
real words and cannot be translated. He uses the rattle described
above.

- => ‘SSS SS SEES
3? —_— 7. _
eS ee ee © re es ee ee ce Le Lee _ Lae «© eee eee
0 = SS Lt Ss ee ee ee Ee ee SS 0 eS
a =a = a y
==

Figure 2.—Cheyenne song for sick babies, recorded by Bob-tailed Wolf.

Turtle, the other Cheyenne doctor, learned his songs from Drag-
ging Otter, who had received them from an older doctor. His per-
sonal song, received from a buffalo, is sung “when the spirit of a sick
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

person is in danger of departing.” He says that when he sings this
song, “a young buffalo stands in the way and tries to keep the spirit
from going away.” After recording the song he made a sound of
violent blowing in imitation of the buffalo; he always does this after
singing the song for a sick person.

The Omaha treatment of a boy wounded by a pistol shot was wit-
nessed by Francis La Flesche in his own boyhood.’ The “buffalo doc-
tors” were summoned, and four leading doctors in succession sang
their personal songs and administered their personal remedies. About
20 doctors, including 2 women, then joined in the songs. The
treatment continued over a period of 4 days and was followed by a
ceremony of recovery and the distribution of many gifts. It is said
that the boy recovered in about a month. Two of the songs used on
this occasion were published by La Flesche in musical notation.

Mention has been made of the Indian belief that spirit-animals cause
various illnesses. This belief was found in a particularly interesting
form among the Papago of southern Arizona, who included among
causes of sickness the spirits of dead Papago and of Apache slain in
war. About 50 healing songs were recorded in this tribe. The bird,
animal, or spirit which causes a disease is thought to impart songs
and instruction for its cure to a certain doctor. It is the duty of a
sia’ticum, or diagnostician, to decide the cause of the illness and refer
the patient to the proper doctor. Songs are so closely connected with
the illness that the diagnostician may say to a man with sore eyes,
“Your trouble is caused by the quail. You had better go to So-and-so
who knows the quail songs.” If the patient does not improve, the
diagnostician is held responsible and sends the sick man to another
doctor. Sixteen diseases and ailments attributed to birds and animals
were described, and songs used in the treatment of five were recorded,
these being songs of the deer, badger, horned toad, rattlesnake, and
brown lizard.

A Papago doctor, Owl Woman, was living at San Xavier in 1921
and treating sickness caused by Papago spirits. She used songs which
they imparted to her and she believed that the spirits with whom she
communed were spirits of dead Papago who followed the old customs.
These spirits stayed near their graves during the day but went to the
spirit land at night, traveling a road over which they had even taken
her to that mysterious country. Many spirits had appeared to her, de-
scribed their experiences, and given her songs. These songs were sung
by an assistant while Owl Woman herself was engaged in the treat-
ment of her patient. Several persons knew her songs, but she depend-
ed on Sivariano Garcia, also a doctor, who lived near her and could

Fletcher, Alice C., and La Flesche, Francis, The Omaha tribe, 27th Ann. Rep. Bur.
Amer. Ethnol., pp. 17-672, 1911.
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 451

be summoned at any time. For an entire day Owl Woman directed
him in recording her songs for the writer.

Owl Woman always began a treatment with two songs given her
by the spirit of a man who was killed near Tucson. As in many of
her songs, the words are highly poetic. The first song ran:

Brown owls come here in the blue evening.

They are hooting about,
They are shaking their wings and hooting.

and the second:

How shall I begin my song in the blue night that

is settling?

I will sit here and begin my song.
After four songs had been sung she treated the sick man by stroking
his body with a bunch of owl feathers on which she sprinkled ashes
from his fire. The night was divided into four parts, each with its
own songs.

Jose Panco, a Papago doctor, has treated the sick for 12 years, each

year represented by a notch in the handle of the gourd rattle with

Ficure 3.—Papago healing song, recorded by Jose Panco.

Sandy Loam Fields, on top of these Elder
Brother (Montezuma) stands and sings.

Over our heads the clouds are seen, downy white
feathers gathered in a bunch.

which he accompanies the songs. Panco recorded several songs, among
them a song with two verses that he received from his grandfather. A
deer gave this song to a hunter from Sandy Loam Fields, a native
village. It is a gentle, pleasing melody and an excellent example of
irregular rhythm.

. Not far from the Papago Reservation, to the west, is the reservation
of the Yuma and Cocopa. Charles Wilson, the leading Yuma doctor,
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

recorded four songs that he used in treating men suffering from gun-
shot wounds in the chest. Each song has a special purpose. With
the singing of the first song he expects the patient to regain con-
sciousness. With the second he calls upon a small insect that lives
in the water and is believed to have power over the fluids of the body;
the purpose is to check the hemorrhage. The third mentions a lively
insect, and with this song Wilson expects the patient to regain the
power of motion. The fourth mentions a certain kind of buzzard
that has white bars on its wings and flies so high that it cannot be
seen by man. Wilson said, “Each of these insects does his best, but
it is the buzzard whose great power gives the final impetus and cures
the sick man.”

A unique explanation of the cause and cure of sickness was given
by Pa’gits, a doctor of the Northern Ute tribe, living on the high
plateau at the base of the Uinta Mountains. He claimed to receive
his power from “a little green man who lives in the mountains and
shoots arrows into those who speak unkindly of him.” Pa’gits said,
“He tells me when he has shot an arrow. Then the man sends for me
and pays me to get it out.” In return for this cooperation he some-
times left a handkerchief or other small gift at the abode of the little
green man in the mountains. Pa’gits said that he usually had to sing
five or six times before he could extract the cause of the pain, which
was sometimes an inch or two in length, red in color, and in texture
like a fingernail. He recorded nine of his songs, which are very slow
in tempo and have no words. He never took a case if he had any
doubt of his ability to cure it.

A Sioux Indian on the prairie of North Dakota defined the limits
of Indian therapy by saying that an Indian doctor “would not try to
dream of all herbs and treat all diseases, for then he could not expect
to succeed in all or to fulfill properly the dream of any one herb or
animal. That is why our medicine-men lost their power when so
many diseases came among us with the advent of the white men.”
Sioux songs were recorded in 1911-14.

Brave Buffalo was one of the most powerful doctors on the Stand-
ing Rock Reservation in Dakota. He related a dream in which a
pack of wolves formed a circle around him; as they stood looking at
him he noticed that their nostrils and paws were painted red, and then
he Jost consciousness. When he regained his senses, the wolves took
him to a den on top of a high hill. The details of his dream are not
of present interest, but the wolves gave him a song that he used in
treating the sick. The words reflect the high regard which Indian
doctors, who usually treat the sick at night, have for the owl:

Owls hooting in the passing of the night,
Owls hooting.
USE OF MUSIC BY AMERICAN INDIANS—DENSMORE 453

Another prominent doctor on this reservation was Eagle Shield,
who had treated fractures for more than 40 years; he also treated
wounds and general illnesses, and he ascribed his power to the bear
and badger. He recorded 11 of his healing songs and brought speci-
mens of the herbs used with them. Eagle Shield was also a warrior
and had the right to wear the crowskin “necklace” which is the insig-
nia of the Kangi’yuha, or Crow-owners society, an important military
society of the Plains tribes.

A primitive form of socialized medicine was found among the Ma-
kah and Clayoquot, two seafaring tribes living in northwest Washing-
ton and on the west coast of Vancouver Island. These tribes had an
organization called the Sai’ytik society to which “everyone had to be-
long in order to have any standing in the tribe.” One of its functions
was to supply musical therapy to its members. A group of men and
women would go to the house of the sick person, where they danced
and sang. The songs were in pairs, the first accompanied by very
rapid pounding on planks (a native form of percussion instrument)
and the second by a measured beat on small drums, in the same tempo
as the song. “Sometimes a pretty song would soothe the sick person
_ and he would go to sleep.” The power of the Sai’yik included the

healing of physical ills, and it was said that they cured a cripple who
had been unable to walk for at least 10 years. They came and sang
for him, and he lived in excellent health to an advanced age. He was
a whaler, a vocation which requires strength and endurance. His
daughter, Sarah Guy, said, “His reliance was on the songs and meet-
ings of the Sai’yfik, but he sometimes took herb tea.”

Songs of the Indians of British Columbia were recorded near Chil-
liwack, British Columbia, where about a thousand Indians were em-
ployed in a hop-picking camp. They came from widely separated
localities, including Vancouver Island and the reservations on the
west coast, Fort Simpson and the regions of the Nass, Skeena, and
Babine Rivers in the north, and the country adjacent to the Fraser
and Thompson Rivers. Many songs were recorded, and among them
were 26 songs used in the treatment of the sick. These were recorded
by eight singers from various parts of British Columbia and Van-
couver Island. John Butcher and Tasalt recorded songs that they
were using in their treatment of the sick, and other songs were re-
corded chiefly by sons and grandsons of old men who treated the sick.
The younger men had learned the songs when singing with them. One
of these songs contains the words, “The whale is going to help me cure
this sick man.”

John Butcher, whose native name may be translated Dawn, lives
at Lytton, on the Thompson River, and treats illnesses of a general

‘character. The four songs he recorded are those he uses in a confine-
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

ment case. In one song he talks to a sturgeon and a bird, and in the
others to the seal, grizzly bear, deer, and eagle.

Tasalt has inherited his name from a remote past and does not
know its meaning. He lives on the Fraser River and is commonly
known as Catholic Tommy. When the writer’s work was explained,
he said that he would record his four songs for the treatment of small-
pox, fever, palsy, hemorrhage from the lungs and pneumonia. These
were preceded by a long introductory song. The songs were ascribed
to mythical spirits; one was said to live in the water and to resemble
a dog. It hada golden breast and golden eyes. Another was received
from a “wild spirit” that he could not describe. He said these spirits
went away when the White men came. Each song has its own charac-
teristics and the rhythms are varied. The tempo is slowest in the song
for pneumonia and most rapid in the song for palsy.

The members of the Chippewa Midewiwin continue the treatment
which they were using for the sick when Hoffman heard their songs
in 1889. The writer talked with one of these men in August 1945.
He was Joe Pete of Lac Vieux Desert, Mich. Two of his recent
cures, with singing, were related. (Cf. pp. 442-444.)

These examples will suffice to show the close relation between music
and medicine among the Indians and the deep faith of these primitive
peoples in the healing power of music. The White man has developed
his own methods of musical therapy, but in isolated places the Indian
doctor still sings the songs that come to him in dreams, while his pa-
tients listen and recover.

Nn a a a a nb Db DD DDDDLLLLLDLLLLLLLLADS

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Division of Publications,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Densmore PLATE 1

BoB-TAILED WOLF, CHEYENNE

Courtesy Southwest Museum.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.— Densmore PLATE 2

“10 O

ao

OWL WOMAN, PAPAGO

Courtesy Bureau of American Ethnology.
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Densmore

ed

EAGLE SHIELD, SIOUX

Courtesy Bureau of American Ethnology.
Smithsonian Report, 1952.—Densmore PLATE 4

ad

BRAVE BUFFALO, SIOUX

Courtesy Bureau of American Ethnology.
INDEX

A

Abbot, Charles G., ix, 130, 133

Abbott, R. Tucker, vi

Accessions, 8, 11, 14, 28, 42, 48 85,
94, 96, 147, 159, 161

Acheson, Dean C! Secretary of State,
member of the Institution, v, viii

Acton, Gladys E., 42

Adams, Roger (Man’ s synthetic future),

Aguilar, Domingo Canton, 58
Air Museum (See National Air Museum)
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astro-
physical Observatory, ix, 130, 135
Allen, William T., vii, 23
American Ethnology ‘(See Bureau of)
Anatomy, Recent advances in the study
and techniques of (Paul G. Roofe and
Samuel W. Lesher), 327
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the
Institution, v,4
Andrews, A. Tio vi
Anglim, J. E., vi
Antibiotics, Phar macology of (Henry
Welch), 399
Appropriations, 5, 27, 60, 79, 80, 156,
168, 174
Arny, Samuel A., vi
Arthur lecture on the sun,
annual, 7
Aschemeier, C. H., vi
Astrophysical Observatory, ix, 11, 130
Astrophysical Research, Division
of, ix, 11, 130
Radiation and Organisms, Division
of, ix, 11, 134
Report, 130
Staff, ix
Avery, E. A., vii
Awl, Mrs. Aime M., vi

B

Bales, Richard, 39

Barkley, Alben W., Vice President of
the United States, member of the
Institution, v, 4

Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund, 45

Bartsch, Paul, vi

Bassler, en S., vii

Baumhof,, Martin, A., 64

Bayer, Frederick M., vi

Beach, Jessie G., vii.

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National

eae of Fine Arts, viii, 41,

Nineteenth

236639—53———30

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice Presi-
dent, National Gallery ‘of Art, viii,
26, 27

Benn, ie 18S, Ayal

Bennett, Henry G., 79

Bent, Arthur C., vi

Biggs, J. D., vi

Bisio, Peter, 140

Blackwelder, R. E., vi

Blaker, Mrs. M. C., vi

Bliss, Robert Woods, 41

Botanizing with the Okinawans (Egbert
H. Walker), 359

Boéving, A. Ge vi

Bowsher, Arthur L., vii, 23, 24

Bradford, Mrs. Charlotte, 52

Brannan, Charles F., Secretary of
Agriculture, member of the Institu-
tion, v

Bromeliad malaria (Lyman B. Smith),
385

Brown, Margaret W., viii

Brown, Ralph D., 67, 72

Brown, Roland W., vii

Brown, W. L., vi

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., viii

Bryan, Alan, 66

Buchanan, L. L., vi

Bureau of American Ethnology, ix, 10,
56, 166

Archives, 84

Collections, 85

Institute of Social Anthropology,
ix, 10)-79

Publications, 82, 166

Report, 56

River Basin Surveys, ix, 10, 59

Staff, ix

Systematic researches, 56

Bush, Vannevar, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4, 175

Byas, W. J., vi

Cc

Secretary-Treas-

Cairns, Huntington,
National

urer and General Counsel,
Gallery of Art, viii, 26, 40
Caldwell, Joseph R., 62, 63, 67
Canal Zone Biological Area, ix, 11, 150
Acknowledgments, 157
Buildings and equipment, 150
Donations, 154
Fiscal report, 156
Needs, Most urgent, 151
Rainfall, 155
Report, 150

455
456

Canal Zone Biological Area—Con.
Scientists and their studies, 151
Vertebrates, Additions to the list

of, 154
Visitors, 154
Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4, 175
Carmichael, Leonard, 5
Caro Baroja, Julio, 80
Carriker, M. A., Jr., 15, 22
Cartwright, Oscar L., vi, 17, 23
Celis, Silva, $1
Chace, F. A., Jr., vi
Chancellor of the Institution (Fred M.
Vinson, Chief Justice of the United
States), v

Chapin, Edward A., vi

Chapman, Oscar, Secretary of the Inte-
rior, member of the Institution, v

Chase, Mrs. Agnes, vil

Christensen, Erwin O., 35

Clark, Austin H., vi
(The ecology, evolution, and dis-

tribution of the vertebrates), 283
Clark, Mrs. Leila F., librarian of the
Institution, v, 161

Clark, R.S., vi

Clark, Thomas F., chief, accounting
division, v

Clarke, Gilmore D., 41

Cloud, Preston, vii

Cochran, Doris M., vi

Colbert, Rear Adm. L. O., 7
(The sun, the moon, and the tides),

185

Collins, Henry B., ix, 10, 57, 58

Combs, Rear Adm. Thomas S., ix, 138

Commerford, L. E., chief, publications

division, v
Compton, Arthur H., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 4

Conger, Paul S., vii

Cooper, B. N., 23

Cooper, Gustav A., vii, 23

Cooper, Paul L., 56, 67, 72, 73

Cott, Perry C., 35

Cox, E. E., regent of the Institution, v, 4

Crabtree, Robert, 66

Craigie, Maj. Gen. Laurence C., 138

Cumming, Robert B., Jr., 72

Cushman, Robert A., vi

D

Dale, Chester, viii, 26, 27
Daugherty, Richard D., 66
Davis, Harvey N., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 4
Deignan, H. G., vi
Densmore, Frances, ix
(The use of music in the treatment
of ibe sick by American Indians),
4
Donaldson, Jesse M., Postmaster Gen-
eral, member of the Institution, v
Drucker, Philip, ix, 10, 59

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

Dunkle, David H., vii, 24
Dunn, William H., Jr., vii

Ey

East, C. E., vi

Edgell, George H., 41

Eisenmann, Hugene, 11

Elder, R. A., Jr., vi

Ellis, Max M.., vi

Elstad, V. B., ix

Engineering and pure science (W. F. G.
Swann), 201

Erasmus, Charles, 81

erie re Richard, viii, 10, 53, 54,
5

Evans, Clifford, Jr., vi
Ewers, J. C., vi
Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents, v, 169, 175
Members, v, 175
Report, 169
Appropriations, 174
Assets, 173
Audit, 175
Cash balances, receipts, and
disbursements, 172
Endowments, Summary of, 171
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 171
Gifts, 174
ies tents) Classification of,
1
Seles endowment fund,
9
Exhibitions, 32, 33, 46, 139
Special, 32, 46, 139
Traveling, 33

F

Fairchild, David G., vii
Fenenga, Franklin, 64, 73
Fenton, William N., 10, 58, 59
Field, W. D., vi
Finances, 5, 169
Appropriations, 5, 27, 60, 79, 80,
156, 168, 174
Finley, David E., Director, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 26, 27, 41
Fisher, W. K., vi
Fite, Eugene J., 24
Fleming, Robert V., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 4, 5, 175
Flint, Richard Foster (The Ice Age in
the North American Arctic), 248
Forsythe, William E., 131
Foshag, W. F., vii
Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Institute of
Social Anthropology, ix, 79, 80
Fraser, James E., 41
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 48
Attendance, 10, 52
Building, 51
Collections, Additions to, 48
Repairs to, 50
Exhibitions, Changes in, 50
INDEX 457

Freer Gallery of Art—Con. International Exchange Service, ix,

Herzfeld Archive, 52 10, 86

Library, 50 Foreign depositories of govern-

Publications, 50, 167 mental documents, 87

Report, 48 Foreign exchange services, 92

Reproductions, 51 Interparliamentary exchange of the

Staff, vili official journal, 90

Activities, 52
Friedmann, Herbert, vi
G
Garber, Paul E., ix, 138, 140, 145, 149
Gardner, Paul V., viii, 41
Gazin, C. L., vii, 19, 24
George, Walter F., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 4
Gettens, Rutherford J., viii, 9, 52, 54, 55
Gifts and bequests, 28, 29, 40, 41, 45,
98, 139, 154, 157, 174
(See also under Accessions)
Glance, Grace E., vi
Goddard, Mrs. Esther C., 141, 147
Goodrich, Lloyd, 41
Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of
the Institution, *
Graham, D. C., v
Grasshopper eidciee of Montana and
its relation to long-distance flights of
grasshoppers (Ashley B. Gurney), 305
Greene, Charles T., vi
Guest, ‘Grace Dunham, viii
Gurney, Ashley B. (Grasshopper Glacier
of Montana and its relation to long-
distance flights of grasshoppers), 305

H

Handley, Charles O., Jr., vi, 15, 22
Harrington, eee PS , ix, 10, 58
Harrison, J. H.,
Hartle, Donald dD, 73, 74
Heffernan, Rear Adm. John Bit
Henderson, Bee se aval
Hess, Frank iG vii
Holden, F. E., vii
peo William H., ix, 1380, 131, 132,
13
Hopkins, D. P. (Phosphorus and life),
233

Howard, J. D.,
stitution, v
Howard, James H., 73
Howell, "A, Brazier, vi
Hunsaker, Jerome Cu
Institution, v,4

treasurer of the In-

regent of the

I

Ice Age in the North American Arctic,
The ee Foster Flint), 243
lg, Paul L.,
Institute of Social Anthropology, ix,
10, 79
‘Appropriation, 79
Publications, 84, 167
Report, 79

Packages received and sent, 86
Report, 86
Ishikawa, Toshio (The 1944 eruption
of Usu, in Hokkaido, Japan), 261

J

James, Macegill, Assistant Director,
National Gallery of Art, viii, 26

Jelks, Edward B., 77

Jellison, W. L., vi

Johnson, David H., vi, 22

Judd, Neil M., vi

K

Kainen, J., vii

Kanazawa, Robert H., vi

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the
Institution, v

Kellogg, A. Remington, Director of the
National Museum, vi, 7, 25

Kelly, Isabel, 81, 82

Kendall, Edward C. VAL, 25

Kestner, BBS photographer of the
Institution, v

Killip, E. P., vii, 18

Kirk, Edwin, 24

Klein, William 1Bte

Knight, J. rece a vii

Kramer, Andrew, ix

Kress, Samuel H., President, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 26, 27

Krieger, H. W., vi

L

Lachner, E. A., vi, a 17, 23

Laybourne, E. 'Gs

Lea, John &., aditore Ghitional Museum,
vi, 165

Leapley, William T., vi, 16, 23

Lehmer, Donald J., 74, "16

Leonard, E. C., vii

Lesher, Samuel W. (Recent advances in
the ‘study and techniques of anat-
omy), 327

Lewton, F. L., vii

Library 13, 153

Accessions, 159
Report, 158

Lincoln, An anthropologist looks at
Ge D. Stewart), 419

Lindbergh, Col. Charles, 139

Link, Anna Moore, 46

Link, Edwin A., 24

Livestock parasitology in the United
States (Benjamin Schwartz), 343

Loeblich, A. R., Jr., vii, 24

Loehr, Max, viii
458

Loening, Grover, ix, 138
Lowe, Frank O., ix
Lyon, Rowland, viii

M

Malaria, Bromeliad (Lyman B. Smith),
385

Male, W. M., ix

Mann, William M., Director, National
Zoological Park, vi, ix, 129

Manship, Paul, 41

Se synthetic future (Roger Adams),
21

Marble, J. P., vii

Marshall, George C., Secretary of De-
fense, member of the Institution, v

Marshall, Laurence K., 22

Marshall, W. B., vi

Martin, G. J., viii

McBride, Harry A., Administrator,

National Gallery of Art, viii, 26

McClure, F. A., vii

McGranery, James P., Attorney Gen-

eral, member of the Institution, v

Mellon, Paul, viii, 26, 27

Members of the Institution, v

Metcalf, George, 74, 75

Miller, Carl F., 62, 74

Miller, E. O., 77

Miller, Gerrit 8., Jr., vi

Mills, John E., 66, 74

Minakami, Takeshi (The 1944 eruption
of Usu, in Hokkaido, Japan), 261

Mitman, Carl W., 138

Mohr, Albert D., 64

Mongan, Elizabeth, 35

Moore, J. Percy, vi

Morrison, Joseph P. E., vi, 17, 23

Morton, C. V., vii, 18

Mosher, 8. M., viii

Murray, A. C., vii

Music, The use of, in the treatment of
the sick by American Indians (Fran-
ces Densmore), 439

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, 42

Myers, George Hewitt, 41

N

National Air Museum, ix, 11, 136

Accessions, 11, 147

Advisory Board, ix, 138

Assistance to other agencies, 143

Reference material, Improvements
in, 145

Report, 136

Research, 147

Special events and displays, 139

Specimens and exhibits, Improve-
ments in, 140

Staff, ix

Stephenson bequest, 139

Storage, 142

Survey, 139

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1952

National Collection of Fine Arts, viii,
9, 41
Alice Pike Barney memorial fund,

45
Catherine Walden Myer fund, 42
Exhibitions, Special 46
Henry Ward Ranger fund, 45
Information service, 46
Library, 45
Loans accepted, 43
Loans to other museums and or-
ganizations, 43
Report, 41
Smithsonian Art Commission, 41
Smithsonian lending collection, 44
Staff, viii
Study collection, 43
Tey ane Exhibition Service, viii,
,4
Withdrawals by owners, 44
National Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 26
Accessions, 28
Acquisitions Committee, 27
Activities, Curatorial, 35
Other, 39
Appropriations, 27
Attendance, 9, 28
Audit of private funds, 40
Building and _ grounds,
nance of, 38
Educational program, 37
Executive Committee, 26
Exhibitions, 32, 33
Finance Committee, 27
Gifts, 28, 29, 40
Index of American Design, 38
Library, 37
Loaned works of art returned, 31
New galleries, Construction of, 39
Officials, viii, 26
Organization, 26
Personnel, 27
Publications, 35
Report, 26
etree facilities, Construction of,

Mainte-

Trustees, vili, 26
Works of art, Exchange of 29
Restoration and repair of, 35
Works of art lent, 31
Works of art on loan, 29
National Museum, vi, 8, 14
Accessions, 8
Buildings and equipment, 14
Collections, 14
Exploration and field work, 21
Organisation and staff, Changes in,
24

Report, 14
Staff, vi
Visitors, 24
National Zoological Park, ix, 10, 94
Accessions, 96
Animals in the collection June 30,
1952, 110
INDEX

National Zoological Park—Con.
Births and hatchings, 104
Depositors and donors and their
gifts, 98
Exhibits, 94
Maintenance and
106
Needs, 109
Report, 94
Staff, ix
Status of the collection, 128
Visitors, 10, 108
Naval history, Hall of, 7
Newman, Jack B., chief,
division, Vv
Newman, M. de
Nicol, David, its
Northcott, Lois, 80

O

Oberg, Kalervo, 80, 81

Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial divi-
sion, v, 168

Okinawans, Botanizing with the (Eg-
bert H. Walker), 359

Oliver, L. L., superintendent of build-
ings and labor, V

Oliver, S. H., vii

Osborne, Carolyn, 66

Osborne, Douglas, 66

P

improvements,

personnel

Page, George, 141

Palmer, M. Helen, 166

Palmer, T.8., vi

Parasitology, Livestock, in the United
States (Benjamin Schwartz), 343

Parfin, Sophy, vi

Pearce, F. L., vii

Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administrative
assistant to the Secretary, v

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell, & Co., 175

Perry, K. M., vii

Perry, Stuart H., vii, 19

Perrygo, Watson M., vi, 16, 21

Peterson, Mrs. , vi

Peterson, Mendel i, vili, 7, 24

Phillips, ‘Duncan, viii, 26, 27

Phillips, J. Harry, Jr., vii

Phosphorus and life (D. P. Hopkins),
233

Pierson, Donald, 80, 81

Policing of Smithsonian buildings, 7

Pope, John A., Assistant Director,
National Gallery of Art, viii, 53,
54, 55

Pope, Mrs, John A., Chief, Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service, viii,
9, 42

Potter, Stanley, ix

Price, Leonard, ix

459

Price, Waterhouse & Co., 40
Publications, 12, 162
American Historical
Report, 167
Appropriation for printing and
binding, 168
Bae of American Ethnology, 82,
il
Annual Report, 167
Bulletins, 167
Publications of the Institute of
Social Anthropology, 84, 167
Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion, Report, 167
Distribution, 12, 162
First Ladies’ Gowns, 12
Freer Galley of Art, "50, 167
ace Collection of Fine Arts,
National Galley of Art, 35
National Museum, 165
Annual Report, 165
Bulletins, 166
Contributions from the United
Etates National Herbarium,
16

Association,

Proceedings, 165
Report, 162
Smithsonian, 12, 163, 164, 165
Annual Reports, 164
Miscellaneous Collections, 163
Special publications, 165
Tables, 12
Putt, Maj. Gen. Donald ‘hae

R

Radio astronomy (J. A. Ratcliffe), 179
Ranger, Henry Ward, fund, 45
Ratcliffe, J. A. (Radio astronomy), 179
Ray, James, 147
Reeside, J. B., Jr., vii
Regents, Board of, v,4
Annual meeting, 4
Executive Committee, v, 175
Members, v, 175
Report, 169
Members, v, 4
XRehder, Harald A., vi
Richards, Charles M., 35
River Basin Surveys, ix, 10, 59
Appropriation, 60
Report, 59
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Associate
Director, Bureau of American Eth-
nology, and Director, River Basin
Surveys, ix, 10, 56, 57, 59, 62
Rogers, Grace L., vii
Roofe, Paul G. (Recent advances in the
study and techniques of anatomy),
327

ix, 138

Rudd, Velva E., vii

' Russell, J. Townsend, Jr., vi
460

8
Saltonstall, Leverett, regent of the
Institution, v, 4
Sawyer, Charles, Secretary of Com-

merce, member of the Institution, v
Schaller, W. T., vii
Schmitt, Waldo L., vi
Schultz, Leonard P., vi
Schumacher, E. G., ix
Schwartz, Benjamin, vi
(Livestock parasitology
United States), 343
Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson, vi
Secretary of the Institution (Alexander
Wetmore), v, 4, 5, 7, 21, 26
Setzer, Henry W., vi, 15, 22
Setzler, Frank M., vi, 21
Shaw, Winthrop S., ix, 140
Shepard, Donald D., 26
Shepard, Katherine, 35
Shiner, Joel L., 64, 65, 66
Shippee, James M., 75
Shoemaker, C. R., vi
Simmons, Ozzie, 82
Sinclair, Charles C., assistant superin-
tendent of buildings and labor, v
Sirlouis, J. R., viii
Smith, A. C., vii
Smith, G. H., 75
Smith, Lyman B., vii, 23
(Bromeliad malaria), 385
Smithsonian Art Commission, 41
Snails and their relations to the soil
(Harley J. Van Cleave), 273
Snyder, John W., Secretary of the
Treasury, member of the Institution,
v, viii, 27
Sohns, Ernest R., vii
Solecki, Ralph §., 62, 64
Stanton, T. W., vii
Stern, Harold P., viii, 53, 54
Stern, 8. C., 133
Stephenson, George H., 139
Stephenson, Robert L., 77
Stevenson, John A., vii
Stewart, T. Dale, vi
(An anthropologist looks at Lin-
coln), 419
Stirling, Matthew W., Director, Bureau
of American Ethnology, ix, 10, 56
Stout, Ernest, 140
Stout, William B., ix, 138
Strobell, Robert C., ix, 140, 145
Stubbs, Burns A., viii
Sullivan, Francis, 35
Sun, the moon, and the tides, The (Rear
Adm. Leo Otis Colbert), 185
Swallen, Jason R., vii, 18, 23
Swann, W. F. G. (Engineering and pure
science), 201
Swanton, John R., ix
Switzer, G.S., vii

in the

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1952

is

Talbert, D. G., ix

Taylor, Frank A., vii

Taylor, William E., 57

Taylor, W. W., Jr., vi, 21

Thomas, George S8., 25

Tobin, Maurice, Secretary of Labor,
member of the Institution, v

Traveling Exhibition Service, Smith-
sonian, vill, 9, 42

Truman, Harry §S., President of the
United States, Presiding Officer ex
officio of the Institution, v

U

Usu, The 1944 eruption of, in Hokkaido,
Japan (Minakami, Ishikawa, and
Yagi), 261

V

Van Cleave, Harley J. (Snails and their
relations to the soil), 273

Vertebrates, The ecology, evolution, and
Staab of the (Austin H. Clark),

8

Verville, Alfred V., 138

Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor of the In-
stitution, v, viii, 4, 26

Visel, Gladys O., 165

Visitors, 6, 9, 10, 24, 28, 52, 108, 154

Vorys, John M., regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4

W

Walcott, Mary Vaux, fund for publica-
tions in botany, 8

Walker, Egbert H., vii, 18, 23

aie ee with the Okinawans),
59

Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director,
National Zoological Park, ix

Walker, John, Chief Curator, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 26

Waring, A. J., Jr., ix

Watkins, C. M., vi

Watkins, W. N., vii

Wedderburn, A. J., Jr., vii

Wedel, Waldo R.., vi, 21, 57, 75

Weiss, Helena M., chief, office of cor-
respondence and records, vi

Welch, Henry (Pharmacology of anti-
biotics), 399

Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery
of Art, viii, 41, 54

Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the
Institution, v, viii, ix, 5, 7, 16, 21,
26, 41

Wheeler, Richard Page, 75, 76
INDEX 461

White, Lawrence Grant, 41 Y
White, Theodore E., 19, 63, 76
Wilding, Anthony W., chief, supply| Yagi, Kenzo (The 1944 eruption of

‘division, v Usu, in Hokkaido, Japan), 261
Williams, D. G., Chief, International] Yepes, Silvio, 81

Exchange Service, ix, 93 Young, Mahonri, 41
Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., vi
Withrow, Mrs. Alice P., ix Z
Withrow, R. B., ix, 134
Wonderly, William, 81, 82 Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal
Wright, Burdette, 147 Zone Biological Area, ix, 157
Wulf, Oliver R., 133 Zoological Park (See National Zoological
Wyeth, Andrew, 41 Park)

O
a ad .
a fat j a w4
_ : Ge.

.*

a

a

or frome
Za six: 7

Lok “TAL evpowe suen sigs:
x ‘te

eo umiigne Whig at " hase a a Laden en

ute

SUS heaizal Mijelt in
‘wd ‘ tAoWie ants ser)
craze oak Hult es “i
a. q bya »

a et

Tihivrnake, (5

Gainey’ ot as Abi xt atonal lord |
} Fis ae Ap eyutoret nro
lisinefae 5 bap hyn » ee leet ae coat

bet a Saewndate)

|
a +
s
i]
4 ott, oh, St O77 ae
‘ “
> , tp AP So aT ‘yf
gs ; acre lone.
“Te H bali
Plat one gud a, il
. Lr re
Serge Mer trate: at
, C4 4 : "4
} : : 5 Weis is - ar =
ra
i L . }
P nent Fa oie, i 70e. ne

av
‘Went
t amt

INSTITUTION LIBRARI

Nh

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

N
ise)
uw
™
r
N
a
bd
=)
0
ive]
o
ao
o

|
q

ve

