aSiateesnctaten

Asa tate ntd ae stare
WAIN Py we KD
1 | Si wv

od

ge PP

f yi Py? a its ve ene

ee he we WG PD
pe e ; yi pe | ye i yy, y JP

Pek eee eee ee
# ; ; oe Bi oo yh aby c ui ry + ¥ ¥ . a.

wi bi
y y. Ri yi ee) yi Vig } i Fi PF J Pi ¥ y. » |
yi ow yi a yi ¥ oe wil fe Mod nf a wm a * , & PF

x MG nt . i ¥ ih Pi pe 1 oP ;
a ie a8 Va ce) mar p ue yw we Ww wD a }

‘al ak " + \ A Wwe y’ '
a yt at ih \\i - b Lae I fh; ¥ i ri

ve a * aS
. eo ; i" ’ mf ve "a pi be Pi La bY A Ae - - "’ (
aw #3 ie: Rog ye a a an ey yd
Pe ra be ee we AS Pe Pe PLR de ae ee
PL TRS Hi yt wt wh we WB, DA De iy ae
ats 7 fh W. Wi by Ww A ks ye 3 we yb é

Rh Oe RD a we
vnw ww ww Ae 8 ee i166 82678

; ir jie i o . Hs!
7 yi he Ve | ea

ee ie eh ba? ed +7 iy?
sa om Lis ao in eee nt a a } ee
facet tH aig BR tt Wi nh MS Ny M ye ww

ee LS Ae 9 wh he ee Pe Pe
ate a vas Veer wd
b pr
US NINUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS. OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INS TI IU TION.

SHOWING THE
OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND

CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR) tHE YEAR SENDING JUNE 30

ees

(Publication 2836)

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1926
ADDITIONAL COPIES

OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D. C.

AT

$1.50 PER COPY (CLOTH)
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 24, 1925.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1925. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. D. Watcort,
Secretary.

Til
ADDITIONAL COPIES
OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
AT

$1.50 PER COPY (CLOTH)

LETTER

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 24, 1925.
To the Congress of the United States:
| In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
| United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1925. I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. D. Waucort,
Secretary.

III

dayTad

hs ra | AM: tenes ee

ney yor MOTCTAAL AIMOAIEPERE

wel ‘1k ru
en : PATTY 1
= s
Do, Hae VO apaDeE To OFADR ae s0: meson as ty

S20 CP PAUL ORNS STF baad aot ey

cme Lense Ve <=
; aS
Shorecrovead )- Heep ae |
. et pb itedava VY art) Sieh Tt. as
. NaN fatty ain Nw
a “lt 1 epider Fahiel Si. utes RUBE fas Peles
7 Aiomall to A wid ali to ering nj Aouad |
ottece vctighintsin vat Te ere tse,
Ve aie’. ait i iieidn titer fin tone waist
i eb atriagondt alt) ain
Bd oi si a tesitiiie octamer

sas W AL ae

vc
r

CONTENTS

Page
ISG Of omens! 2283 O20 MOGI Mey pst 2 A ae XL, XI
he Smithsonian: institucion=—==_ ith 2S ee a, ee? Ae 1
‘The -establishment-=.———- Se Se, Dee Sh AES pro Bw ieee 1
The-Board=of+Regents === 5-42 ws. Me ae A Se Ae es 2
GeneralSconsideratons 2i of Pas rd Aes 5 ee Ee ee eh Tas A 2
MINA CGS= = = et eee FRR ih Ue EE al QE BS SON Pe +f
Researches, and+ explorations st 220 227 2 SU a PUA ed 6
Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies______________ 6
Zoological explorations in Western China____________________ 7
Botanical exploration in Panama and Costa Rica_____________ 8
ATcheolozicalsexpedition™ toy Ching =2- =) 2) Ls ae 9
Marsh=Darien:-@xpedi tions +s = ~~ eee ee ee 11
Additional--assistant secretary 22s ee a ee ee 12
Smiphsonians. radi omea lcs 22 Sehr UP TS
UDI CAEL OTS es NE PS ES EAS (Is OT AO 14
ibranya2 22s Bre eS, PE ORAS APE Rk a eS 15
National Museum =..02 22 RR i al AL Med AES AS cea) 16
National eG allery.- of VATEE iene Sasa eee A AERO, SA A ea Ek 18
PreersGalleny sob Ar te ae ick RE a US eae SPOS ee Oa 20
Bureausof;American-Hthnolo cyte eee 2 he ke 2 a ee 20
Internationa lev xchameess fee Fe WU eee P MELE 0 LAOS Ta 22
National Zoological Park_______ RNa PEE BN TALES TAN SALES: 23
Astrophysicali@bservatory2s225_ 20 tlt to ee ae a CO 24
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__._.__._-____._ =” 24
INGCrOlOg ys 28 = toe ote ee eR Ee ERATE TESS A. ANREP OI TRe 25
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum___________ 28
2. Report on the National Gallery D8 gar Fle oo ea ae 48
Report Onn ther hreersGallenya0twAt be eee ee 57
4, Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology____________ 60
5. Report on the International Exchanges__________________ 75
6. Report on the National Zoological Park__________________ 87
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_________________ 101

8. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
(U ULI eee ee ek 107
OMReportonethesiprar yess ie see ee Ee ee ee 109
LOS Report von puplications] = = sss eee ee ee ee 116
VI CONTENTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

The spiral nebule and the structure of space, by Carl Wirtz
Immensities of time and space, by A. Vibert Douglas__________________
Certain aspects of high-pressure research, by P. W. Bridgman_____-___-_~-
Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena, by IF’. W. Peek, jr._-------
Ghemical elements and atoms, by G. Urbaini== =] 22222 Ss ae eee
The manufacture of radium, by Camille Matignon
The chemistry -of solids; by Ceell Hy Desches.2 2 Sse ee eee
Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century, by Daniel L. Hazard__
Some causes of voleanie activity, by Arthur L. Day
Geology in the service of man, by W. W. Wattse.22=-422--855> "= eee
The yeasts: a chapter in microscopical science, by A. Chaston Chapman_
Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from island to island in the

Pacific, by: Stephen Sargent) Visher=-2- 20-2 See ee ee
Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic evolution, by David

SLart JOMdane a. oe ee ee a ee 3
The biological action of light, by Leonard HilJ]__-__--_______________
Animal life at high altitudes, by Maj. R. W. G. Hingston
The nest of the Indian tailor bird, by Casey A. Wood______-_-_-______-
The needs of the world as to entomology, by L. O. Howard
Krom an ege to\an insect; by KR. HW. Snodgrass —2- 2-2 eee
The role of vertebrates in the control of insect pests, by W. L. McAtee__
Carnivorous) butterflies; by Austin H: Clark. 2) 2 >= eee
The potato of romance and reality, by W. E. Safford_____________»____
The relation of geography to timber supply, by W. B. Greeley_______-~-
The historical geography of early Japan, by Carl Whiting Bishop___-
The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, by Byron Khun

de Proroks.a- 2 22 ee ee ee eee EE ee |
The Smithsonian Institution, by C. G. Abbot
sir Archibald Geikie, by. Sir Aubrey Strahan 222.) ee eee ee
Ned Hollister (1876-1924), by Wilfred H. Osgood
LIST OF

Lightning (Peek) :
Plates e168 25 oe ee
PISteSin Oe eee eee
PIRtESy OG lke se teers wee

Radium (Matignon) :
Plater 4a eee

Volcanic Activity (Day) :
ela eraliees ee eee es eae
late ee ee
late = a ae a ee

Life at High Altitudes (Hing-
ston):
1 2 Fel refs at Ie Ne aca ee ee

Nest of the Tailor Bird (Wood) :

BlgteswilS pi sees oe Se

Control of Insect Pests (Mc-
Atee) :

Plates 4= 72 ee Se eee

Page
174

PLATES

The Potato

(Safford) :

Plates IS 02h oe ae Sas oe
Timber Supply (Greeley) :

P1ates| 13) eae St oe
Early Japan (Bishop) :

IPTACES el rae ee a Ee

Sanctuary
rok):

of Tanit (de Pro-

Plates il 4k A On eee
The Smithsonian Institution:

Plate 1

Plates 0 a te

Plates al Oa. 42 ad tn ee

lates pls =o So es
Geikie (Strahan) :

Plate 1

Hollister (Osgood) :

Plate 1
Plate 2

Page

a.
ere,
Ta an eee
Ceiepduts vatdinets. seal Manat Wal
“Ge renin ‘et meh at ME pet
ee Daepationy le! hit ee, Tee inh gle rey Meerkat yes a4
apis Maid ROMs lab Hoe: Ba ee RY, top! ptean), So Ve Et oe
es ae Sade mabey, iy areal ee a i bah th im ld 1 ,
phat 22 Waren’ Pie seat 0: BP * +, VW pth, ay vere eT pe)
Sty yaks WERE | een? iio my AEA, A rer
Se an ae cpa Cami in teh Ne

teas en eae cor oan

Larale : -" - - sees; eid
AP Pes oy ain % Bn, len = Caae rte 7 a iy

é qindens Ws Por dea

aid Co . sos nai ar |
ee en
Oe

ne
= Ma .
ay air } |
: ee) " "

io 7 f y a
<— > A 7 7 Teas
ANNUAL REPORT OF} THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1925, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1925.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1925.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous me-
moirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1925.

Ix
pips sth Ve vettiayoom (oh AER, a ight!

pe amely ginny ane wal 204 het ta

us b te Hexno8 odlt ‘to; on iAtaioat 9 Oro:

‘- A daby ¢ athotinT wodargtaud Date acta
Pea nde Sots aia ata oe 8)

pid Div0 Hert fied pd wi stoke Aa me ob
us Safabasattin do oH NBR ‘Seid 4

ea ah LG rect vane he" Tat wrote’ A t a)
eebalwoad ty) EGA aUEEE FS] anh) ae frongneeitey “in Mt

GT ave beige hh: "
a1
i
ee
7
os i Tai,
-THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1925
Presiding officer ex officio—CALVIN COoLInGEr, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.

Members of the Institution:
CaLvrin CooLmner, President of the United States.
Cuartes G. DAwes, Vice President of the United States.
WittramM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
Frank B. Kettoae, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. MELLON, Secretary of the Treasury.
JoHN WINGATE WEEKS, Secretary of War.
Joun G. Sarcent, Attorney General.
Harry S. New, Postmaster General.
Curtis D. WiLBur, Secretary of the Navy.
Husert Work, Secretary of the Interior.
WILLIAM M. JARDINE, Secretary of Agriculture.
Herpert CLARK Hoover, Secretary of Commerce.
JamMeEs JoHN Davis, Secretary of Labor.

Regents of the Institution:
WittraAm Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHarLes G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States.
ReEep Smoot, Member of the Senate.
GrorGE WHARTON PeprerR, Member of the Senate.
Woopripcr N. Ferris, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JoHNsoN, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. Watton Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
WALterR H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives.
GrorRGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES F. CuHoarTe, jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Henry WHITE, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Roszert S. Brooxrnes, citizen of Missouri.
Irwin B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Frepreric A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.

Executive committee—GrorcE GRAY, HENRY WHITE, FREDERIC A. DELANO.
Secretary of the Institution—Cuartes D. WALcorT.
Assistant Secretary.—C. G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief clerk.—Harry W. DOorRSEY.
Accounting and disbursing agent.—N. W. Dorsey.
Editor —W. P. TRUE.
Librarian.—WILLIAM L. CorRBIN.
Appointment clerk.—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk.—J. H. H1.t.
XI
Xit ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper er officio —CHARLES D. WAtcorTtT, Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WaALTER HouGH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, GEORGE P. MERRILL.

Curators.—PavuL BartscH, R. S. BAsster, T. T. BeLore, AUSTIN H. CLARK,
F. W. CLARKE, F. V. Coviite, W. H. Dati, WALTER HoucH, L. O. Howarp, ALES
HrpuiéKa, Nett M. Jupp, FrepertckK L. Lew'ron, GrorGe P. MERRILL, GERRIT S.
MILLER, JR., CARL W. MiTMAN, Rosert RipGway, WALDO L. ScumitTtT, LEONHARD
STEJNEGER.

Associate curators.—J. M. AupricH, C. W. GILMoRE, W. R. Maxon, CHARLES
EK. Resser, CHARLES W. RICHMOND, J. N. Rose, Paunt C. StTaNnpiEy, DAvip
WHITE.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. Bryant.

Disbursing agent.—N. W. Dorsey.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. S. GOLDSMITH.

Hditor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—ArRTHUR J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Shipper.—L. BE. Perry.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WILiLIAM H. HouMEs.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.

Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate. KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Superintendent.—JOoHN Bunpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY
Chief.—J. WALTER FEWKES.
Ethnologists—Joun P. Harrinetron, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francis LA FLESCHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JOHN R. SWANTON.
Editor.—STANLEY SEARLES.
Librarian.—HLua LEARY.
Illustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—C. G. ApBBor.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Superintendent.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F.. EK. Fow eg, JR.
Assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge.—LEONARD C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
CuarLes D. Watcottr

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the customary
annual report showing the activities and condition of the Smith-
sonian Institution and the (government bureaus under its adminis-
trative charge during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1925. The first
27 pages of the report contain an account of the affairs of the Insti-
tution, and in Appendixes 1 to 10 are given more detailed summaries
of the operations of the United States National Museum, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the United States
Regional Bureau of the Iniernational Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture, the Smithsonian Library, and of the publications issued under
the direction of the Institution.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America, “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.” One of the Regents
is elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has fallen
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable person is
chosen by the Regents as secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The following changes occurred in the personnel of the board
during the year: The Hon. Charles G. Dawes, as Vice President, be-
came on March 4, 1925, a Regent of the Institution ex officio. Sena-
tor Reed Smoot, of Utah, was appointed a Regent on December 2,
1924, to succeed Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, deceased. Senator
George Wharton Pepper, of Pennsylvania, was appointed a mem-
ber of the board on December 8, 1924, to succeed Senator Medill Mc-
Cormick, resigned. Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris, of Michigan,
was appointed on March 11, 1925, to succeed Senator A. Owsley
Stanley, whose term as a Regent expired with his retirement from
the Senate.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chancellor;
Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States; members
from the Senate, Reed Smoot, George Wharton Pepper, Woodbridge
N. Ferris; members from the House of Representatives, Albert
Johnson, R. Walton Moore, Walter H. Newton; citizen members,
George Gray, Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., Massachusetts;
Henry White, Washington, D. C.; Robert S. Brookings, Missouri;
Irwin B. Laughlin, Pennsylvania; and Frederic A. Delano, Wash-
ington, D. C.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

The past year marks a crisis in the affairs of the Institution. For
several years past it has grown more and more difficult to stretch
the income from its meager endowment sufficiently to cover the
steadily increasing costs of even the limited amount of research
which can be undertaken and of the administration of the eight
erowing Government bureaus. 'The cost of publishing is more than
twice that of 10 years ago, which has resulted in materially de-
creasing the output of Smithsonian publications. The research work
of the Institution is now limited practically to the paleontological
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

work of your secretary and the work on the solar constant of radia-
tion under Doctor Abbot’s direction, and both of these investigations
are partially supported by private financial aid. The Institution
has for several years been undermanned, and the ordinary running
expenses are met only by the exercise of rigid economy.

This condition has been recognized for some years, and attempts
have been made from time to time to increase the endowment. But
during the past year the situation has become acute, and it has been
realized that without a marked increase in the Institution’s resources
it would no longer be able to hold its place among the great research
institutions of the present day, the annual income of several of which
is greater than the Smithsonian’s entire endowment. If allowed to
eo on under these circumstances, the Smithsonian, America’s na-
tional scientific establishment, which was the guiding light during
the formative period of scientific activity in this country, and which,
las been the parent of most of the present great scientific bureaus of
the Government, would be relegated to second or third rank, and its
world-wide reputation as a center of scientific effort in America
would rapidly diminish.

With a definite realization of these facts, the administration of
the Institution has concentrated during the year upon a direct effort
to increase its resources, and by the close of the year several plans
were under way and one definite step had been taken toward that
end. An agreement was entered into with the William T. De Van
Corporation, of New York, to issue a series of popular scien-
tific books, to be known as the Smithsonian Scientific Series, a
project similar in general plan to the Chronicles of America series,
published by the Yale University Press, which proved so success-
ful under Mr. De Van’s direction. In the Smithsonian series it
is intended to present in readable form, and profusely illustrated, the
activities of the Institution and the bureaus under its direction in
many branches of science. The series will consist of 20 volumes, and
the following tentative titles of a few will indicate their nature:

Sun-Rays in the Welfare of Man.

Man’s Origin and Development.

Gems, Meteorites, and Stones.

North American Indians.

The Study of Our Seas.

Birds and Their Ways.

The preparation of manuscripts was well under way at the close
of the year, and it is hoped that before very long the sale of these
books will add materially to the Institution’s annual income. Two
other projects, each holding promise of a large increase of endow-
ment, were under consideration, but final action had not been taken
by June 30, and their discussion at this time would be premature.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMJTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

However, it is believed that as a result of the concerted effort of the
administration the outlook for the future is brighter regarding the
possibility of increased resources for research and publication.

FINANCES
The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the fol-
lowing:
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States_-___-----_-__-~ $1, 000, 000. 00
CONSOLIDATED FUND

Miscellaneous securities, ete., either purchased or acquired by

gift; cost or value at date acquired___--_------_--__---___- 218, 386. 50
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund, stock (gift) ;
N/T ILLE (Gy nena ee ee Os ee eee 11, 520. 00

The sums invested for each specific fund or securities, etc., ac-
quired by gift are described as follows:

United Consoli- Walcott

Fund States dated research Total
Treasury fund fund
Avery fund!) = 2 sen a esas oS enemas $14, 000. 00 | $32, 669.55 |------------ $46, 669. 55
Virginia sepurdy Baconifund= 22.) 2 oon 2 eae eee es 62, 272. 93 62, 272. 93
Lucy Hi. Baird fund 22a ee Se cee eee |Ea sakes 1, 528. 09 1, 528. 09
@hamberlain fund oo 322 2522 eas | 2 35, 000. 00 35, 000. 00
Habel fund -------- SOON OOH | 2235 8555-0 ek ee 500. 00
Hamilton:fund=2-"=-—-—— = 2, 500. 00 H00500|So5 33 eae 3, 000. 00
Waroline Henry fundies 2 seen ae eee ee eee 12232330) s-ce te a 1, 223. 33
od ekcins)ftinid sericrea| assume aun nee ere aeenee 116,000.00 | 37,275.00 |------------ 153, 275. 00
Hodgkins fund; specific: 22-22 2—- =. 222225 EES 100; 000500: [853322228 ee | Se ees 100, 000. 00
Brucevbughesi{UnG Sos 4 see sae eae eee eee 13,889) GOniSe se see 13, 839. 90
IMorrissoeb fund sse2-2 5s 2 ies Lee ee Fee = 32 Seb ote oe ee DAOLEOOH Sener 5, 814. 00
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund_--------------- 265670: OON| = 14, 183514 eee ee 40, 853. 14
Addison i wReid-fund!: 2222.22 222) 2. 22 Se ees 11, 000. 00 B B80 16" |-fe ee seers 17, 639. 16
Rhess fonda e235 s+. = - sees eee cose nkewe nee 590. 00 85%e84: |S seen Sse 947. 34
Georgeshio sanford fund seek a Pee eee nee es 1, 100. 00 616; 3212 Pee 1, 715. 32
Smithson fund = ss22 2. oa ee 727, 640. 00 1 468.74): |e Soe 729, 108. 74
Charles D.and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund__-_|--------------|------------ $11, 520. 00 | 11, 520. 00
se =
Mota ets. 2 beet Poke Seal Phas ee 1, 000, 000. 00 | 213, 386. 50 11, 520. 00 | 1, 224, 906. 50

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following
donors:

Dr. William L. Abbott, for botanical expedition to Haiti.

The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, for expedition to southern Asia,
Java, Australia, and Africa (Hrdlitka).

National Academy of Sciences, for researches in paleontology.

Research Corporation, for research work.

Dr. Charles W. Richmond and Dr. William Schaus, for collecting expedition
in China.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for solar researches, ete.

Mr. B. H. Swales, for purchase of specimens.

The Institution has also received contributions from the following
friends for the funds as listed below:

General endowment fund: Miss Anne C. Hanson, Mr. R. B. Miller, Mr. R. S.
Poor, Prof. M. V. Walker, and Mr. Hans Wilkens.

Endowment campaign expense fund: Mr. Milton EK. Ailes, Mr. Charles F.

Choate, jr., Mr. Charles ©. Glover, jr., Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin, and the Hon.
William Howard Taft,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

Smithsonian Scientific Series: Mrs. Martha W. Bacon, Mr. Edward S.
Harkness, Mr. Clarence H. Mackay, the Radio Corporation of America, and
Mr. Samuel Rea.

Freer Gallery of Art—The invested funds of the Freer bequest
are classified as follows:

Court and grounds fund__-----_-____ Deb SR ON a geal Set DTS: 825250
Court and grounds, maintenance <a et 2A aS 69, 683. 75
CUTER #2 Tegf NB op ae ES a SS he) ey eee ee 278, 825. 50
COST OC a a COT a ai i le Ba el i I lO ee ey YL A PL
Sinking fund_-----__-_ =e SEN STE AN ARS: OD Oe See 222, 658. 75

EET se ee EES se eee Wa ee 3, 526, 226. 25

The practice of ery Es on time, in local trust companies and
banks, such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $1,610.15. The income during the year for current ex-
penses, consisting of interest on permanent investments and other
miscellaneous sources, amounted to $62,507.06; revenues and prin-
cipal of funds for specific purposes, except the Freer bequest,
amounted to $148,252.88; revenues on account of Freer bequest
amounted to $231,073.64—aggregating $441,833.58.

The disbursements, described more fully in the annual report of
the executive committee, were classed as follows: General objects of
the Institution, $59,921.20; for specific purposes (except the Freer
bequest), $128,334.53; and expenditures pertaining to the Charles L.
Freer bequest, $184,190.26. The balance on hand on June 30, 1925,
was $171,952.75.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1925:

OER EES Ir aa eR CORT SU a A EMU ORS eg $49, 550. 00
American ethnology_-__- ig F wet tine Sib onan ta nem trata AEA, “a ne hte tae 57, 160. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__.._______-_-____-____ 8, 861. 66
ARtranhiveral ODSEIvatory.= 2.215 Set es eet co vane eee) ceed 21, 580. 00
Aaditiounl assistant secretary sty teen}. Sf ee) 9 ee ee ed al ee! 6, 000. 00
IGG AOTIELY TILE) “POLGCEION R= Heke 3.8 Se a 8 gg ee 8, 500. 00
National Museum:

IAAT O GANG TXDUMON fk ee $21, 800. 00

HOHE aT ie L ae ae ee Be eS See 77, 560. 00

Preservation’ of collectious=.: {2 lites. fees 434, 482. 00

Building repalre ss tF he) boien bae pe h o9 eee 11, 000. 00

DE 00 i eee eke PO A NE eR FORO Ee eS ee 2, 000. 00

1 (0) (2b Ce Se es a ee eee ae eee 450. 00
547, 292. 00
Nawonal Gallery: Gh vArts STi te ey pew Pi 23 ee esr) es « Pealio 20, 158. 00
INDEOTIe | AOOlOP Teale Par ige ss 2 Ee Les rie ow eye re et rs op pe oR 151, 487. 00
SDE SS td eh ae i eee ee: A eee ie eee 90, 000. 00
zie) elas BBO © RO ee Ge ES Did SSP RS ESTES rm ee edd AS ae 960, 588. 66
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS

An important part of the Institution’s work in increasing scientific
knowledge is the exploration of regions imperfectly known to science.
Although the limited funds of the Institution sharply restrict the
number of expeditions which it is able to put in the field, neverthe-
less it is often found mutually advantageous to cooperate with other
agencies in field work, and the Institution thus has an interest in a
considerable number of expeditions each year. Many of them are
conducted under the direct supervision of the heads of several of
the bureaus under the Institution, and accounts of these will be
found in the reports appended hereto on the National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory.
A few of the expeditions will here be described briefly, in order to
give an indication of the nature of the work undertaken.

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES

During the field season of 1924, your secretary carried on his usual
geological work in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, with the inten-
tion of completing the reconnaissance begun some years ago of the
pre-Devonian formations north of the Bow Valley. The weather
was unusually unfavorable, and on 42 days out of the season it
was very difficult and sometimes impossible to carry on the field
work. The chief problem attacked was the determination of the
proper classification of the great Lyell limestones. In order to
solve this it was necessary to find fossils in them, and during the
past six seasons all such attempts were unsuccessful.

A section was measured from Fossil Mountain, situated northeast
of Lake Louise station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, eastward
into Oyster Mountain, the main north and south ridge of which was
found to be formed of the Lyell limestones. Two glacial cirques,
named Cotton Grass and Tilted Mountain, cut deeply into this ridge,
and in these the base of the Lyell formation was uncovered, as well
as the shales and oolitic limestones of the underlying Bosworth
formation. The brook running out of the glacial lake in the bottom
of the southern cirque was followed over the ledges of Lyell lime-
stone westward to Tilted Mountain Falls, where it drops into the
canyon valley of upper Baker Creek. Everywhere the hard, un-
fossiliferous, light gray limestone was encountered, except near the
edge of the cliffs above and east of the falls, where long narrow
strips covered with grass and trees occur between the north and
south ledges. An approach was made from the southern bank of
the brook, and on a rounded, glaciated ridge of the gray magnesian
Lyell limestone there was found, interbedded in the Lyell, an out-
crop of thin layers of a bluish-gray limestone which contained frag-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Fi

ments of Upper Cambrian trilobites. The next day these layers
were traced back to the brook, and a little lower in the section we
found two bands of shale and bluish-gray limestone which contained
fossils. The lower of the two contained many fragments of trilo-
bites, which were later identified as closely related to Upper Cam-
brian Franconia trilobites from Wisconsin, and the upper band
contained fossils of the same type as the fauna of the St. Lawrence
member of the Trempeauleau formation of Wisconsin.. Thus after
a search occupying a portion or several field seasons, fossils were
found which definitely located the Lyell limestones as of Upper
Cambrian age.

After the Lyell problem was definitely settled, further collections
of fossils were made in the Ozarkian upper Mons limestones of
Fossil Mountain, and later in the Mons formations of Wild Flower
Canyon, which heads on Johnston Creek Pass.

During the past eight seasons considerable progress has been
made in the understanding of the pre-Devonian geological forma-
tions and their faunas in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, but much
remains to be done, particularly in the region between the Canadian
Pacific Railway and the Arctic Ocean.

ZOOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN WESTERN CHINA

In my last report mention was made of the tragic ending of the
Institution’s collecting expedition in China conducted under the
auspices of Dr. W. L. Abbott. Mr. Charles M. Hoy, in charge of
the work, following a series of misfortunes, was stricken with a
severe case of appendicitis, and died shortly after. In order that
Hoy’s work might be continued, his collecting outfit was transferred
to the Rev. David C. Graham, who for a number of years has col-
lected zoological material in the vicinity of Suifu for the National
Museum. In 1923 he had carried out very successful collecting
operations in the region about Tatsienlu, to the northwest of Suifu,
and in May, 1924, plans were completed for an expedition to Song-
pan, in the northern part of the Province of Szechwan, using Hoy’s
outfit.

The distance from Suifu to Songpan was about 400 miles, and in
order to keep down expenses Mr. Graham covered most of this
distance on foot. His party, including carriers, skinners, and other
helpers, reached Songpan on July 14, after a strenuous journey of
22 days. In September Mr. Graham wrote as follows:

The Songpan trip has been taken, and we are safely at Suifu with 50 boxes
of specimens, most of which are about ready to be mailed by parcel post.

This has been a harder and rougher trip than the one of Tatsienlu or any

other previous trip. It is much harder to secure food and other necessities
around Songpan than at Tatsienlu. There were times when we could pur-
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

chase no fruit, vegetables, eggs, or meat. At Songpan it was impossible to go
west or north, where large mammals were found in abundance, so that the only
place we could go was east to the Yellow Dragon Gorge. Even there we had
to have an escort of six Chinese soldiers and had of course to pay all their
expenses! ~ #°) #1

The reason we could not go north of Songpan or west of that place was
that the Bolotsi aborigines are so savage and so inclined to murder and
brigandage that the Chinese can not control them and are afraid of them,
and the officials could not protect us in those regions. Just before we returned
from Songpan the Bolotsis attacked a company of Chinese soldiers, killed seyv-
eral of their number, stole several rifles, and drove the scared and defeated
soldiers back to their barracks. I have not heard that the Chinese have
dared to go into the Bolotsi country with a punitive expedition.

The catch of mammals is not large. We are very sorry about this. It is
due primarily to the fact that the mammal-catching districts around Songpan
were closed to us. Yellow Dragon Gorge was a fine place for birds and
insects, but a great festival had just been held there, in which aborigine and
Chinese hunters from all directions had joined in the chase, and woodcutters
were busy in the woods cutting timber for the new temples that are being
constructed. The mammals had been scared away.

Mr. Graham also sent native collectors out to work in other
regions, and regarding their work he says:

This year’s catch is bigger than that of last year. There are 50 boxes of
specimens on hand, and I expect to send them off by parcel post as early as
possible. Besides the 50 boxes just mentioned, there is the entire catch of the
netter Ho for at least three months, who has been collecting about Beh Luh
Din, Chengtu, and Kuanshien during the summer, and specimens now being
secured by two collectors on Mount Omei, one at Shin Kai Si and one on the
higher altitudes.

The collections resulting from the season’s work include about
5,000 insects, notably two-winged flies, butterflies, and moths; 558
birds, of which at least a dozen proved to be new to the Museum
collections; about 250 mollusks; and a smaller number of mammals,
fishes, reptiles and batrachians, earthworms, and plants.

30TANICAL EXPLORATION IN PANAMA AND COSTA RICA

Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator of the division of plants,
United States National Museum, engaged in botanical exploration
during the latter part of 1923 and the first four months of 1924 in
Panama and Costa Rica. The work in Panama was carried on with
the cooperation of the government of the Panama Canal, and had
for its purpose the collection of specimens and data for a report on
the plant life of the Canal Zone which will be published later.
Regarding the exploration in Panama, Mr. Standley writes:

Part of November, December, and most of January were spent in botanical
exploration in and near the Zone. Nearly all parts of this area were visited,
and 7,000 numbers of plants were obtained, represented by about twice as
many specimens. These collections are now being studied and have been

found to contain a number of species new to science, besides many not col-
lected previously in the area.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

The vegetation of the Zone is typical of that existing in Central America
at low elevations, but it is here possible to study in close proximity the floras
of the Atlantic and Pacific slopes, these floras being sharply differentiated in
Central America because of differences in the climates of the two watersheds.
The Pacific slope has well defined wet and dry Seasons; on the Atlantic slope
there is usually plentiful moisture throughout the year.

Although the original vegetation of the Isthmus of Panama has been greatly
modified in many places because of long occupation by man, and especially
because of operations incident to the construction and management of the
canal, there remain near the canal extensive areas of virgin forest whose
animal and plant life is of great interest. Advantage has been taken of this
fact to establish recently a station for tropical scientific research on Barro
Colorado Island in Gatun Lake, the island having been set aside for the pur-
pose by the governor of the canal. Upon this island, largely as a result of
the energy and enthusiasm of Mr. James Zetek, there has been constructed
this year a laboratory building with accommodations for students, and trails
have been cut to make the virgin forest, which covers several hundred acres,
available for study.

From Panama, Mr. Standley proceeded to Costa Rica, where he
spent two and one-half months in botanical exploration and col-
lecting. Costa Rica is, from a botanical standpoint, probably the
richest part of the North American continent, and in the highland
region, where a temperate rather than tropical climate prevails, the
luxuriance and variety of the vegetation is extraordinary. Of the
Costa Rica work, Mr. Standley reports:

The collection consists of 8,000 numbers of plants, many of which will doubt-
less prove to be new. Special attention was given to the orchids, of which
about 1,500 numbers were obtained. ‘These are now being studied by Mr.
Oakes Ames, through whose interest the work in Costa Rica was undertaken.
Of orchids Costa Rica possesses probably a larger number of species than
any other portion of the American tropics of equal extent. Over 1,000 species
have been reported from this small Republic, and it is certain that many
more await discovery. While most Costa Rican orchids, like those of other
countries, have inconspicuous flowers, some, such as the Cattleyas, are of un-
surpassed beauty.

Visits were made to the Volcano of Poas, celebrated for its great crater,
which contains a lake that erupts frequently; to the Voleano of Turrialba,
whose forests are noted for their wealth of ferns; and to many other rich
localities in the central highlands.

A short visit to the comparatively arid Pacific coast proved that the flora
of this part of Costa Rica is relatively meager and uninteresting. Several
visits were made to the wet lowland forests of the Atlantic watershed, where
the vegetation is even more luxuriant than in the mountains and the species
are almost equally numerous. Little is known of the plants of the Atlantic
lowlands of Central America, although it is probably that no other region
will better reward exploration.

ARCHEOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO CHINA

An expedition to China under the joint auspices of the Freer
Gallery of Art and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and directed
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

by Mr. Carl Whiting Bishop, associate curator of the Freer Gal-
lery, conducted successful archeological investigations at I Chou,
Province of Chihli, and at various localities in the Province of
Shensi. To the southwest of I Chou, which is built upon the ruins
of an ancient city, Mr. Bishop discovered parts of old earthen
walls of considerable size, and to the east of the city were found
groups of large mounds rising from the plain. These were exam-
ined, and many fragments of pottery and tile collected on the sur-
face of the mounds. A survey of the locality was made by airplane,
in order to determine the extent and plan of the ancient site.

Although the work of this expedition commenced during the
previous fiscal year, it was continued into the present year; and,
us no detailed account was given in my last report, I will quote a
few paragraphs from the report of the curator of the Freer Gallery
upon the work at Shensi:

In Shensi the members of the field staff visited the Western Han (206
B. C.—A. D. 25) capital of Ch’ang-an, securing sufficient data while there to
make a fair reconstruction of the ancient city. In the same Province they
inspected also two large mounds of the usual truncated pyramidal form, as-
cribed to early Han emperors; the supposed tomb of the Emperor Ch’in Shih
Huang-ti (221-210 B.C.), and the tombs of the famous Emperor Han Wu
Ti (140-87 B. C.), and his General Ho Ch’ii-ping. The tomb of Han Wu Ti
is an unusually large one, measuring 278 yards at its base, and presents
opportunities of great archeological interest, as does also that of General
Ho Ch’ii-ping, where Mr. Bishop saw not only the well-known stone figure
of a horse trampling on a recumbent warrior but examined also several other
partially exposed stone sculptures of the early Han period. Photographs and
scale plans of several of the tombs and temples in this vicinity were made.

The first actual excavation work conducted by the expedition was begun
in the spring of this year at Yii-ho Chén, about 17 miles west of Hsin-yang
Chou, in the Province of Honan. This specific undertaking has an added sig-
nificance archeologically, in that it is the first work of the kind to be con-
ducted in China by any foreign Government in cooperation with the Chinese
authorities. At Yii-ho Chén two tombs of the Han dynasty (206 B. C.—A. D.
221) were excavated; the work revealed interesting data on ancient tomb
construction, and brought to light Chinese cultural objects dating from pre-
historic times to the Han period. Specimens in metal, stone, and pottery
were found in the tombs; chariot fittings, mirrors, and arrow points of bronze;
one or two gold rings; cast-iron implements; a stone ax, and parts of stone
doors and lintels; a jade chisel; slate arrow-heads, and a number of pieces
of ancient pottery—some intact, some fragmentary—among them a kind of
glazed pottery which, if it be of Han production, is a type hitherto scarcely
known to us.

In August the Yii-ho Chén finds were exhibited for one day, under Mr.
3ishop’s direction, at the Historical Museum in Peking; between 5,000 and
6,000 visitors attended the exhibit.

In the early autumn Mr. Bishop, together with Doctor Barbour, professor
of geology at Peking University, and Doctor Tegengren, a Swedish mining
geologist, examined a mound in Peitaiho, on the Gulf of Chihli, which dis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ti

closes evidences of what Mr. Bishop believes to be a Han dynasty naval base
or fortress, one-.of three which are said to have been built at that time, and
of which two only have been located.

MARSH-DARIEN EXPEDITION

An expedition under the auspices of Mr. R. O. Marsh explored
during a part of 1924 the little-known Isthmus of Darien, in
Panama. A number of men representing several institutions and
various branches of science accompanied the expedition at the invi-
tation of Mr. Marsh, the Smithsonian Institution being represented
by Mr. John L. Baer, who was particularly interested in the
anthropological phase of the work. This expedition, like that of
Mr. Hoy mentioned in last year’s report, had a tragic ending, so
far as the Institution was concerned, for while the party was pro-
ceeding up the Chucunaque River Mr. Baer was taken suddenly
ill, and, although hurriedly transported to the coast, he died within
a few days.

A brief report of the work of the expedition, written by the head
curator of anthropology of the National Museum, reads in part as
follows:

The route followed was from Balboa to San Miguel Bay, through Darien
Harbor, and up the Tuyra River to the village of Real. There a change was
made to smaller boats and the Rio Chucunaque ascended to Yavisa, near which
a permanent camp was established. A visit was made to the Choco Indians,
who occupy the middle river valleys above tidewater, and to the Cuna, who
live in the higher river valleys and mountain district. The Choco have a
local government, live in large, well-built community houses, and subsist on
rice, bananas, plantains, corn, and yucca. They are expert fishermen, diving
into deep pools and catching certain kinds of rock fish in their hands. ‘heir
religion is a form of primitive belief in the influence of good and bad spirits.
Mr. Marsh observes that they are a happy, careless, childlike people, friendly
if well treated, very Polynesian-like, wearing breech-cloths, but decorated with
beads, silver earrings, and wrist bands, and wreaths of gay flowers.

The Cuna have a higher culture than the Choco, are monogamous, have
hereditary chiefs, families have separate houses, and large houses are used
for tribal meetings and ceremonies. They raise long-staple tree cdtton, dye
and weave cotton into cloth and hammocks, grow corn, plantains, bananas,
yucca, coffee, chocolate, and sugar cane. They are adepts with the bow and
arrow and blowgun.

The party proceeded up the Chucunaque River with great difficulty, owing
to barriers of drift logs, at last reaching the Cunas Bravos, who were regarded
as hostile. The Cunas Bravos are agriculturalists and exhibit a lower degree
of culture than the Cunas of the lower river. The chief of the Cunas Bravos
spoke good English, having as a young man shipped at Colon on an English
vessel, and in 12 years had sailed over half the world. It was at this point
that John L. Baer became ill.

Activities were next transferred to the San Blas Indians, who inhabit a
long stretch of the north coast of Panama. These Indians, who number
approximately 40,000, have always kept aloof from the white man, realizing
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

that contact with other races would work their undoing. Amicable relations
were established with them and many interesting specimens of their arts and
industries were collected for the National Museum. The San Blas Indians
have an advanced social organization, with a ruler who could perhaps be prop-
erly classed as a king. Through the San Blas, Mr. Marsh came in contact with
hundreds of “ white Indians” whose presence in Panama has been known
for a long time but who have not been examined by scientific observers.
Individuals brought by Mr. Marsh to the United States have been carefully
examined and tentatively stated, before field studies go more fully into the
matter, to present a form of albinism.

ADDITIONAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY

For several years there has been recognized the need of an addi-
tional assistant secretary to relieve the pressure on the Institution
of administration of the eight Government bureaus, several of which
have developed rapidly in recent years. This need was laid before
Congress, and in the last appropriation bill provision was made for
the new position. After a thorough study of the qualifications
needed for the position, Dr. Alexander Wetmore was appointed on
April 1, 1925, as Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
with general supervision of the National Museum, the National
Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park.

Doctor Wetmore graduated from Kansas State University in 1912,
having specialized in biology. He carried on post-graduate studies
in biology at George Washington University, receiving the degree
of M. S. in 1916 and Ph. D. in 1920. Since 1910 he has served in
the Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, first as agent,
then as assistant biologist, and finally as biologist, with official sta-
tion at Washington, D. C.

During Doctor Wetmore’s connection with the Biological Survey
he conducted numerous investigations dealing with birds and mam-
mals, and in 1923 directed the U. S. S. Zanager expedition which
engaged in general scientific exploration of islands in the Pacific.

On November 18, 1924, he was appointed superintendent of the
National Zoological Park, where he exhibited unusual administrative
ability, and on April 1, 1925, he was installed in his new position.

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS

In my last report there was described the beginning of a series
of radio talks by the Smithsonian Institution in cooperation with
station WRC of the Radio Corporation of America, as an addition
to the Institution’s established methods of the diffusion of knowl-
edge. The entire matter was placed in charge of Mr. Austin H.
Clark, curator of echinoderms in the National Museum, and under
his able and enthusiastic direction the series of talks was a distinct
success, as attested by calls and letters from many listeners.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

On October 2, 1924, the series of talks was begun again, with
increased scope, and between that date and May 14, 1925, twenty-
eight 15-minute talks were presented to the radio audience under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution through station WRC,
four of these having been broadcast jointly with stations WJY and
WJZ of New York City, thus considerably extending the audience.
Ten of these talks were given by members of the staff of the Insti-
tution, the other 18 having been given by scientists representing
other establishments selected by and presented under the auspices
of the Smithsonian. A list of the talks given during the year
follows:

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS (1924-1925)

October 2, 1924. Life in the Sea. Mr. Austin H. Clark.

October 16, 1924. Wonders of the Deep Sea. Capt. Frederick B. Bassett,
hydrographer of the Navy.

October 22, 1924. Curious Plants. Dr. F. V. Coville.

November 8, 1924. What the Ocean Means to Us. Lieut. Commander George
E. Brandt, aid to hydrographer of the Navy.

November 13, 1924. Indian Cliff Dwellings. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes.

November 20, 1924. Living Lamps. Mr. Austin H. Clark.

December 11, 1924. The Ocean Bottom. Dr. George W. Littlehales, hydro-
graphic engineer, Navy Department.

December 25, 1924. What Standards Mean to Us. Dr. Fay C. Brown, assist-
ant director, Bureau of Standards.

December 30, 1924. How Trees Grow. Dr. D. T. MacDougall, director,
Desert Botanical Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution, Tucson, Ariz.

December 31, 1924. Why the Harth is a Magnet. Prof. W. F. G. Swann,
Yale University.

January 3, 1925. Tree Rings and Climate. Dr. A, EH. Douglass, University
of Arizona.

January 8, 1925. The Sun and the Weather. Dr. C. G. Abbot.

January 22, 1925. The Weather. Prof. W. J. Humphreys, United States
Weather Bureau.

January 29, 1925. Mysteries of Bird Migration. Dr. F. C. Lincoln, United
States Biological Survey.

February 5, 1925. The Ocean’s Food Resources. Mr. Lewis Radcliffe, Dep-
uty Commissioner of Fisheries.

February 12, 1925. What Other Peoples Eat. Mr. Austin H. Clark.

February 19, 1925. What the Earth is Made Of. Dr. Henry 8. Washington,
Carnegie Institution.

February 26, 1925. Habits of Ants. Dr. William M. Mann, Bureau of Ento-
mology.

March 12, 1925. Fish as Food. Mr. Lewis Radcliffe, Deputy Commissioner of
Fisheries.

March 19, 1925. How Some Wasps Live. Mr. S. A. Rohwer, Bureau of
Entomology.

March 26, 1925. The Work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in Saving Life
and Property at Sea. Col. E. Lester Jones, Director Coast and Geodetic
Survey.

April 2, 1925. Mosquitoes and Other Bloodsucking Flies. Mr. Raymond C.
Shannon, Bureau of Entomology.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

April 9, 1925. Lizards and Their Kin. Miss Doris M. Cochran.

April 16, 1925. Fighting Plant Diseases by Breeding New Plants. - Dr. W. A.
Taylor, Chief, Bureau of Plant Industry.

April 23, 1925. Our Fisheries. Hon. Henry O’Malley, Commissioner of Fish-
eres.

April 30, 1925. The Geodetic Work of the United States Coast and Geodetic
Survey. Col. E. Lester Jones, Director Coast and Geodetic Survey.

May 7, 1925. Chiggers, Ticks, and Fleas. Dr. H. E. Ewing, Bureau of Ento-
mology.

May 14, 1925. Butterflies. Mr. Austin H. Clark.

This Smithsonian radio series has proved to be an excellent means
of disseminating authentic scientific information, and Mr. Clark
had already begun at the close of the fiscal year to arrange the
program for the coming year. It is intended to increase not only
the scope of the talks, but also the audience to be reached by
exchanging material with Westinghouse station WBZ, of New
England.

Plans were under way also, near the close of the year, for a distinct
series of radio talks on the National Zoological Park, to be presented
by the superintendent of the park and others who have a special
knowledge of certain groups of animals shown in the park. It is
expected to begin this series in October, 1925.

PUBLICATIONS

A total of 155 volumes and pamphlets were issued during the year
by the Institution and the Government bureaus under its adminis-
tration. Of these, 171,865 copies were distributed, including 262
volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge, 24,008 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 26,825
volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 6,102
special Smithsonian publications, 104,596 volumes and separates of
the various series of National Museum publications, 7,354 publica-
tions of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 68 volumes of the
annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 44 reports on the Harri-
man Alaska expedition, and 1,057 reports of the American Historical
Association.

The publications of the Institution constitute its principal means
of carrying out one of its main purposes, “the diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” With the 11 distinct series now issued, a very
wide field of readers is reached, as in addition to the technical
papers, intended for use by scientists and students, a semipopular
account of progress in all branches of science is presented to the
general reader in the appendixes to the annual reports of the Institu-
tion. As explained in last year’s report, these reports have since
the war been issued over two years late. Last year, however, funds
were provided to enable the Institution to bring them up to date
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

by issuing two reports in one year, and this has now been accom-
plished, the report for 1923 having been received from the printer
in June, 1925, and the 1924 report promised for delivery in October,
1925. This is probably as nearly on time as the reports can be
issued, owing to their complicated nature, which involves the assem-
bling of material from foreign as well as American sources and the
submitting of proof to some 30 authors in all parts of the world.

Allotments for printing—The congressional allotments for the
printing of the Smithsonian report to Congress and the various
publications of the Government bureaus under the administration
of the Institution were practically used up at the close of the year.
The appropriation for the coming year ending June 30, 1926, totals
$90,000, allotted as follows:

Annual Report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

STite elite! 11] <1) ee ee 2 ES ee $12, 500
NEEL a pues USI ee es ee ee 42, 500
ares). Gr American ~ Etineesoege 2s 2S 2 es 3 eee 25, 600
Nekrnest. Gallery .dr, Argo 2-2 78S a ee Ee 1, 200
Dee Td gd oo Cn D1 nt ee ee 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_________________-___ 100
PT a os EEE Eee 300
(STRUT IT REL OS ra ae ee ee 500
Annual Report of the American Historical Association______________ 7, 000

Committee on printing and publication—The Smithsonian advis-
ory committee on printing and publication considers and makes
recommendations concerning all manuscripts offered for publica-
tion. It also assists in determining the publication policy of the
Institution and endeavors to insure the most efficient administration
of all funds for printing and binding. During the year five meet-
ings were held and 75 manuscripts acted upon. A vacancy was cre-
ated in the personnel of the committee by the death of Mr. N. Hollis-
ter, superintendent of the National Zoological Park. Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, who succeeded him as superintendent of the park, also took
his place on the committee. Upon Doctor Wetmore’s appointment as
an assistant secretary of the Institution, he in turn was succeeded
on the committee by Dr. William M. Mann, the present superin-
tendent of the park. The membership of the committee is as fol-
lows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger (chairman), Dr. George P. Merrill,
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Dr. William M. Mann, Dr. Marcus Benjamin,
Mr. Stanley Searles, and Mr. W. P. True, secretary.

LIBRARY

During the year the most important change in the staff of the
Smithsonian library was the appointment of Mr. William L. Corbin
as librarian. Mr. N. P. Scudder, assistant librarian in charge of the
National Museum library for the past 38 years, died May 19, 1925.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The accessions to the libraries, exclusive of those to the library of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is reported on by the
chief of the bureau, totaled 12,537. The most outstanding gift of the
year was the entomological library of the late Col. Thomas L.
Casey, numbering about 4,500 volumes and pamphlets, chiefly on
coleoptera, which will be deposited in the section of insects of the
National Museum.

The loans totaled 10,657. Special effort was made to supply re-
quests for missing volumes or parts of volumes, and 2,009 were ob-
tained. There were sent to the Library of Congress 7,287 publica-
tions to be added to the Smithsonian deposit and 7,408 documents of
foreign governments for the document division. Seven thousand
one hundred and thirty-two volumes and pamphlets were catalogued
and much general work was done on the collections, including a de-
tailed investigation by the librarian of the needs of the lbrary.

NATIONAL MUSEUM

By the action of the Congress in providing for the appointment of
an additional assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution te
have general supervision of the National Museum and certain other
Government bureaus under administrative charge of the Institution,
Dr. Alexander Wetmore was appointed to that office on April 1,
1925. The application of the reclassification act resulted in the
adoption of a more just salary scale for the scientific staff, and for
the first time in many years every position in the Museum personnel
was filled, the salaries previously available for certain positions
having been too small to attract men properly equipped to hold
them. The increase of $52,396 in the Museum appropriations over
last year was sufficient to cover the larger salaries, but does not
allow for proper advancement for efficient service, as provided in
the reclassification act. Additional funds are urgently needed for
this purpose and also for the normal expansion of the Museum, in-
cluding the purchase of specimens, and for use in minor explorations.

The Museum contributed during the past winter seven speakers to
the series of Smithsonian radio taiks, organized last year under the
direction of Mr. Austin H. Clark. This new field for the dissemina-
tion of knowledge offers great possibilities.

The Loeb collection of chemical types has made splendid progress
under the direction of Mr. O. E. Roberts, jr., curator, 616 new speci-
mens having been added to the collection during the year.

The Museum received during the year 363,490 specimens, a slight
increase over last year’s accessions, and 1,232 additional lots of ma-
terial were received for examination and report. A total of 23,244
duplicate specimens were distributed as gifts to educational institu-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY LZ

tions or exchanged for specimens needed to complete collections in
the Museum, and 33,966 specimens were distributed as loans to spe-
cialists and students for study and identification.

The accessions to the Museum collections in all its departments
are described in detail in the report of the assistant secretary, Ap-
pendix 1, and only a few of the outstanding gifts will be mentioned
here. In the department of anthropology, the ethnological collec-
{ions were enriched by the addition of a unique series of objects illus-
trating the material culture of the Indians of eastern Panama, re-
sulting from the Marsh-Darien expedition, and by a collection of
California Indian baskets bequeathed by the late Miss Ella F.
Hubby, of Pasadena. In physical anthropology, a number of casts
of the remains of early man were received, including several of the
famous Trinil man of Java, Pithecanthropus erectus, from Dr.
Eugene Dubois, and also much valuable skeletal material. The de-
partment profited especially through explorations conducted by the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and by the National Geographic
Society under the direction of Mr. Neil M. Judd, which resulted in
valuable additions to the collections.

The most notable gift to the department of biology was the collec-
tion of Coleoptera and mollusks bequeathed to the Museum by the
late Col. Thomas Lincoln Casey. The beetles alone in this collec-
tion are estimated at 90,000 specimens, representing 16,000 species.
A wonderful store of rich material also has been added to the depart-
ment. in the large collections presented by the National Geographic
Society as the result of expeditions in China by Dr. J. F. Rock and
Mr. F. R. Wulsin, which include 4,500 specimens of vertebrates and
68,000 plants. Additional collections from China have also been
received from the Rey. D. C. Graham and Mr. A. de C. Sowerby.

In the department of geology, the paleontological collections have
been the chief beneficiaries, having received the results of your secre-
tary’s field work for the past four years, as well as collections made
by Doctor Bassler, Doctor Resser, and Doctor Ulrich. The other
divisions have all received valuable additions, including a number
of interesting minerals contributed by Col. W. A. Roebling, and a
crystal of the new mineral, afwillite, donated by Mr. Alpheus F.
Williams. One of the most interesting exhibits is a crystal ball of
unusual size and perfection, weighing 110 pounds and measuring
1314 inches in diameter, shown through the interest of Mr. Worces-
ter R. Warner and the courtesy of the Fukushima Co. (Inc.), New
York. This ball is said to be the largest of its kind in the world
and has attracted much attention from visitors.

In the division of mechanical and mineral technology there was a
slight falling off in the number of accessions received, principally
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

due to a lack of exhibition and storage space. Interesting additions
were made, however, in the transportation section, including one .
early type of automobile, a Knox car, made in 1901, presented by
Mrs. Lansing Van Aluken, of Watervliet, N. Y.

The division of textiles, under which are administered also wood
technology, organic chemistry, foods, and medicine, received over
8,800 objects during the year, more than twice the number received
Jast year. These included several series of industrial specimens
illustrating the manufacture of rubber, sealing wax, and the prepa-
ration and dyeing of furs; samples of silk, cotton, and wool fabrics
for the textile collections; specimens of woods used in the furniture
industry; and, for the public health exhibit, models and posters
showing advances in sanitary science.

The exhibits of the division of graphic arts have been greatly
improved during the past year by the addition of valuable new
material and the rearrangement of the collections, Fourteen special
exhibitions of prints in various media, mainly the work of con-
temporary artists, were held and the two traveling exhibits prepared
by the division were widely circulated among the art museums and
graphic art organizations of the eastern part of the country.

Among the objects of special interest added to the historical col-
lections were a presentation sword, flags, uniforms, medals, and
badges of the late Lieut. Gen. Nelson A. Miles; additional numis-
matic material, including 800 publications on numismatics trans-
ferred from the Treasury Department; and four portraits added
to the portrait collection.

The Museum participated in a number of field expeditions, de-
scribed in the report on the Museum, appended hereto, which have
resulted in the addition of much valuable material in all of the
departments of the Museum. The auditorium was in frequent de-
mand by scientific and other societies and organizations for meet-
ings and lectures. Visitors to the Natural History Building totaled
557,016; to the Arts and Industries Building, 304,858; to the Air-
craft Building, 52,787; and to the Smithsonian Building, 107,342,
making in all a total of 1,022,003. This is the first time in the
history of the Museum that the year’s attendance has exceeded
1,000,000 individuals. Five volumes and 70 separates were pub-
lished as the result of Museum activities during the year, and 104,596
copies of Museum publications were distributed.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

During the past year additions to the gallery collections were
less than in previous years owing to the lack of exhibition space.
The art works awaiting approval at the present time do not ex-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

ceed $100,000 in estimated value, while, with a suitable art build-
ing, it is thought that gifts and bequests to the value of a million dol-
lars or more would be received annually.

Work has been continued by Mr. Platt on the preparation of
preliminary plans for the proposed gallery building, made possible
by the raising of $10,000 by private subscription as noted in last
year’s report, and the plans could now be made ready for the begin-
ning of construction within six months. It is estimated that three
years would be required to erect the building. The movement for
such a building suffered a severe loss in the death of Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge, who was deeply interested in the national collections
of art and history. In 1924 he offered in the Senate an amend-
ment to the deficiency appropriation bill providing $7,000,000 for
a gallery building to accommodate the collections not only of art
but also those of American history now housed in the National
Museum.

The annual meeting of the National Gallery Commission was held
on December 9, 1924. The report of the secretary mentioned the
following action on problems considered at last year’s meeting:
The approval by the Board of Regents of the commission’s recom-
mendation to include a division of historical architecture in the
National Gallery of Art; the appointment of Mr. Charles A. Platt
as architect of the proposed gallery building; and the approval
by the commission of the inclusion in the prospective gallery of
collections of both American history and art. The question of the
acceptance of works of art by correspondence was discussed, and
it was resolved that hereafter a majority of the advisory committee
be required to examine personally all works of art offered the gal-
lery before making recommendation. Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell was
selected to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Edwin
H. Blashfield. The annual election resulted in no changes in the
officers or personnel of the commission for the coming year. Ap-
preciation was expressed of the activities of the American Federa-
tion of Arts and the Federation of Women’s Clubs in behalf of the
proposed new art building.

Permanent accessions to the gallery during the year included seven
paintings, several pieces of sculpture, and a collection of French and
other art objects, part of the bequest of the late Rev. Alfred Duane
Pell. Several loans were accepted and about an equal number with-
drawn during the year, and five paintings belonging to the gallery
were lent for exhibition elsewhere. Four special exhibitions were
held during the winter and early spring, catalogues for which
were issued by the gallery.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

FREER GALLERY OF ART

The year’s work in the preservation of the collection included the
remounting of a considerable number of prints, bringing the total
number of objects in the print collection which have been put in
final condition to over 1,000. Additions to the collection included
a pastel by Whistler, an Indian bronze, Indian paintings, Chinese
bronzes, a Chinese painting, and Near Eastern pottery. A list
of the Freer Gallery collection of paintings, pastels, draw-
ings, prints, and copper plates by and attributed to American and
European artists, together with a list of original Whistleriana, was
in press at the close of the year.

Ninety books and periodicals and 127 pamphlets were added to
the library. Several hundred photographs and a number of lantern
slides were made and sold to persons requesting them. An increased
number of requests have reached the gallery for translations of
Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan inscriptions, and for other informa-
tion bearing on the work of the gallery.

The total attendance for the year was 109,862. Of this number,
431 used the study rooms to view objects not on exhibition or to
consult reference works in the library.

The gallery’s archeological expedition in China was still in the
field at the close of the year, and a condensed report on its work will
be submitted later for publication in the Smithsonian annual ex-
ploration pamphlet.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The function of the Bureau of American Ethnology as defined
by Congress is to conduct ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excava-
tion and preservation of archeologic remains. The results of these
researches are published in technical monographs as well as in arti-
cles of a more popular character, and reliable information regarding
the American Indian is thus made available for students. The
aboriginal Indian culture is rapidly disappearing through contact
with the white man’s civilization, and when the older men of the
tribes who know the rites and customs of their fathers have passed
away, much of the ancient lore will be lost forever. The bureau is
recording as much as possible of this material before it is too late
to secure it.

An important Indian culture area is that of the southeastern
United States, and the bureau has recently begun an archeological
reconnaissance, so far as its resources will permit, in Florida, Ala-
bama, Tennessee, and Mississippi. It is possible to reconstruct from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Pah

historical sources the main outlines of this Gulf culture, but much
more information is needed regarding the rituals, idols, ceremonial
objects, and symbolism on pottery before we can form a complete
idea of this interesting aboriginal culture.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau, spent several weeks
in reconnaissance near Florence, Ala., where a number of interesting
Indian mounds were located which will be submerged with the com-
pletion of the Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals. Mr. Gerard Fowke
continued the excavation of two of these mounds, which yielded a
considerable collection including rare copper ornaments, among the
largest known from the Tennessee Valley. Doctor Fewkes also pre-
pared during the year an illustrated report on a collection of archeo-
logical objects from Youngs Canyon, near Flagstaff, Ariz., a region
of great importance in determining the relationship of the various
culture areas of the Southwest.

During the past year, Mr. Earl H. Morris, under the direction
of Doctor Fewkes, did necessary repair work on the famous tower
of the Mummy Cave House in the Canyon del Muerto, Ariz., which
will go far toward preserving what is considered one of the finest
examples of aboriginal architecture in the entire Southwest.

Dr. John R. Swanton discovered further material bearing on the
social and religious life of the Creek Indians, and embodied this
information in papers now being prepared for publication. He
also prepared a paper as a result of his recent study of the smaller
culture centers within our present Gulf States, entitled “Culture of
the Southeast ” and a short report on the “ Ethnology of the Chick-
asaw,” and he continued work on the now extinct Timucua language.

Dr. Truman Michelson continued his studies of the Fox Indians,
transcribing and translating a number of texts relating to their
customs and beliefs. He also renewed his researches among the
Algonquian tribes of Iowa, spending part of the summer in that
State.

During the year, Mr. John P. Harrington continued his work on
the Burton Mound Indian village situated at Santa Barbara, pre-
paring for publication the material resulting from last year’s excava-
tions in cooperation with the Museum of the American Indian, and
carrying on additional excavations at the same site which have
yielded much important material. In addition, he prepared a report
on the archeology of the Santa Barbara region along both historical
and archeological lines. Mr. Harrington also made an exhaustive
study of the language of the Tulé Indians of Panama, eight of
whom were brought to Washington by Mr. R. O. Marsh in October,
1924, and remained until January, 192%, thus giving him an excellent
opportunity for this investigation.

76041—26——3
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

In May, 1925, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt left Washington for Brantford,
Canada, to resume his researches among the six nations, or tribes,
of the Iroquois. With the aid of the two best Mohawk informants
available, Mr. Hewitt made a free English translation of one of the
most important of the ancient rituals, and took up the literary
interpretation, revision, and textual criticism of previously recorded
voluminous Iroquoian texts. An interesting résumé of this work is
presented in the report of the chief of the bureau which forms
Appendix 4 of this report. Mr. Hewitt also visited the Chippewa
of Garden River, Canada, and the Seneca in Missouri and Oklahoma.

During the year, Mr. Francis La Flesche completed his paper on
two versions of the child-naming rite of the Osage Tribe. In May,
Mr. La Flesche visited the Osages and remained through June work-
ing at the laborious task of properly recording the gentile personal
names used by the full-blood members of the tribe and by some of
the mixed bloods. Mr. J. George Wright, of the Osage Agency,
cooperated in this work by giving Mr. La Flesche access to the
records of his office. Mr. La Flesche coliected during his stay in the
region some interesting plants used as food or medicine among the
Indians.

Miss Frances Densmore continued her special research on the
music of the Indians during the past year, resulting in the prepara-
tion of five manuscripts comprising transcriptions of 69 songs, to-
gether with the original phonograph records and analyses of the
songs, which were purchased by the bureau for future publication.
Miss Densmore’s manuscripts included also one on the uses by the
Makah Indians of 26 plants in food, medicine, and dyes. She took
advantage of the presence in Washington of the group of Tulé In-
dians, mentioned before in connection with Mr. Harrington’s study
of their language, to make a study of their music. Their favorite
musical instrument was found to be the “ pan pipe” of reeds, and
they also used another reed instrument known as the “mouth flute”
that had not before been observed in primitive music.

The publications of the bureau issued during the year consisted of
two reports and one bulletin. Three other reports were in press
at the close of the year. 7,354 copies of the publications of the
bureau were distributed during the year.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

The total number of packages handled by the exchange service
during the year was 468,731, weighing 506,164 pounds, an increase
in the number of packages over last year of 8,073 and a decrease in
weight of 60,943 pounds, due to the smaller size of the packages of
publications received for transmission through the service.
“REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

Fifty-eight full sets of United States official documents and 40 par-
tial sets are now sent regularly to depositories abroad. This is a re-
duction of one full set from last year and an addition of two partial
sets. At the request of New Zealand, a partial set is now being
sent to the General Assembly Library instead of a full one and the
Stadtbibliothek of the Free City of Danzig has been added to the list
of those receiving partial sets. The immediate exchange of the
Official Journal has been entered into during the year with India
and the Free City of Danzig.

A committee of experts on the international exchange of publica-
tions was called together by the committee on intellectual cooperation
of the League of Nations at Geneva, July 17-19, 1924. Mr. W..
Dorsey, chief clerk of the Institution, represented the Smithsonian
on this committee. The committee recommended an additional
protocol to the Brussels convention of 1886, enabling the states that
are not yet parties to the convention to adhere thereto with reserva-
ions. The committee also gave consideration to various other mat-
ters looking to the improvement of the international exchange service
and the extension of its activities.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

I regret to have to record the death on November 3, 1924, of Mr.
N. Hollister, for eight years the able superintendent of the park.
Dr. Alexander Wetmore succeeded Mr. Hollister and served until
April 1, 1925. On that date he was appointed an assistant secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, and Dr. William M. Mann, ento-
mologist of the Department of Agriculture and widely known as
an explorer in the interests of zoology and entomology, was ap-
pointed superintendent of the park on May 18, 1925.

The collection of animals in the park has been somewhat dimin-
ished in value during the year by a number of deaths among the
older animals. This loss has been offset to a certain extend by the ac-
cession of 130 animals presented by various donors and 70 mammals
and birds born or hatched in the park, but among the older stock lost
were many valuable specimens that can be replaced only by purchase,
and funds for this purpose are very limited. The more notable of
the new gifts to the park included a splendid young male chimpan-
zee, from Mr. Victor J. Evans, and a Bateleur eagle, an Abyssinian
falcon, and two South American stone plover from Mr. B. H. Swales.

The total number of individuals in the park collection at the close
of the year was 1,620, 25 less than reported last year. The species
represented, however, show an increase of 17 due to judicious selec-
tion and purchase of small species offered for sale at moderate prices.
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The attendance for the past year was the highest the National.
Zoological Park has even known, the number of visitors recorded
reaching a total of 2,518,265.

During the year the animal warehouse, construction of which was
begun last year, was completed and put into service, a double bear
cage of steel was erected, and many minor repairs were made on old
buildings. In many instances these, even when carefully repaired,
are poorly adapted to the present needs of the park and should be
replaced by new ones that would not only safely and comfortably
house their inmates, but would also better accommodate the great
throngs of visitors to the collections. The buildings most urgently
needed are a house for birds and one for reptiles.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Much progress has been made during the year in the study of
the sun and its application to weather forecasting. Through the
generous assistance of Mr. John A. Roebling, the experimental fore-
casts by Mr. H. H. Clayton for the city of New York, based on daily
telegraphic reports from the observing stations in Chile and Arizona,
mentioned in last year’s report, were continued. Four papers have
been issued in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, reporting
in detail on the results of this work. While it is still largely experi-
mental, the forecasts have certainly indicated a moderate degree of
foreknowledge. A higher degree of accuracy in the solar measure-
ments upon which the forecasts are based will undoubtedly lead to
better results, and to this end the staff of the observatory is now
engaged in completely revising the methods of observing, measuring,
and recording the solar radiation. The station at Harqua Hala,
Avriz., has been removed to Table Mountain, Calif., to obtain better
atmospheric conditions and greater convenience of access. This
transfer was made possible through the aid of Mr. Roebling.

The director occupied the Mount Wilson station during the sum-
mer and autumn of 1924. He continued work on the three projects
outlined in last year’s report with the following results: The solar
cooker was greatly improved; measurements of atmospheric ozone
were made with the Fabry type of apparatus; and new devices were
tried in stellar energy spectrum measurements which seem to open
the way for great advances in that line.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

Attention is again called to the urgent need of financial assistance
to enable the International Catalogue to resume publication of the
17 annual volumes which for so many years were depended on to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

furnish references to the world’s literature of science. Ever since
war conditions made it necessary to suspend publication in 1921,
it has been the hope that foreign political and financial conditions
would improve sufficiently to enable the cooperating countries to
again furnish the necessary funds through subscription as hereto-
fore, but with the exchange rates of several of these countries now
at a lower level than ever before, it seems that this hope will be
futile for some time to come.

Although actual publication has ceased for the present, the organ-
ization is in no sense bankrupt, for, according to an agreement made
at the Brussels Convention in 1922, the regional bureaus continue
their work of assembling current bibliographical data, thus keep-
ing the organization working, and when publication is resumed it
is believed that new subscribers will purchase the back issues of the
catalogue now held in storage. It would be difficult to find an ob-
ject more worthy of endowment than this unique international,
cooperative undertaking, for no similar enterprise has ever filled
the place occupied by the catalogue and no new organization could
hope to gain the official recognition held by the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature.

NECROLOGY

HENRY CABOT LODGE

Henry Cabot Lodge, United States Senator since 1893 and Regent
of the Smithsonian Institution for 22 years, died November 9, 1924.
Born in 1850, Mr. Lodge was admitted to the bar in 1876, and dur-
ing the early part of his career served as editor of the North Ameri-
can Review and later of the International Review. He next served
for two years as a member of the Massachusetts House of Repre-
sentatives, and in 1887 was elected to Congress, where he remained
until 1893. In this year began his career as a United States Sena-
tor, to which office he was continually reelected until the time of his
death, and the last term for which he was chosen to represent the
people of Massachusetts would not have expired until 1929.

Mr. Lodge was a very influential member of the Senate, having
served as Republican floor leader from 1918 until the year of his
death. In addition to his political activity, he was the author of
inany important historical works and essays.

Through his long period of membership on the Board of Regents
and his interest and active participation in the affairs of the Insti-
tution, Senator Lodge had become a valued adviser, and his loss
is keenly felt by the board and the officers of the Institution.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

NED HOLLISTER

Ned Hollister, superintendent of the National Zoological Park
since October 1, 1916, and one of the foremost mammalogists of the
world, died on November 3, 1924.

Mr. Hollister was born at Delavan, Wis., November 26, 1876, where
he received his education and began the study of zoology. From
1902 to 1909 he conducted zoological field work for the United States
Biological Survey in Texas, New Mexico, Alaska, British Columbia,
Washington, Oregon, California, Utah, Nevada, Louisiana, and
Arizona. In 1910 he began his connection with the Smithsonian
Institution, being appointed assistant curator of mammals in the
United States National Museum, which position he held until 1916
when he was selected for the responsible position of superintendent
of the National Zoological Park.

In 1911, Mr. Hollister was a member of the Canadian Alpine Club
expedition to explore the Mount Robson region of British Columbia
and Alberta, and in 1912 he represented the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on the Smithsonian-Harvard expedition to the Altai Moun-
tains, Siberia and Mongolia. The results of Mr. Hollister’s scien-
tific work have appeared in the publications of the Institution and
in various technical journals for many years. Besides over 100
minor papers on zoological subjects, he was the author of a number
of large works, including The Birds of Wisconsin (1903); Mam-
mals of the Philippine Islands (1911); Mammals of the Alpine
Club Expedition to Mount Robson (1913); East African Mammals
in the United States National Museum (vol. 1, 1918; vol. 2, 1919;
vol. 3, 1923.) This last is probably Mr. Hollister’s greatest contri-
bution to science, being a complete technical account of the great
collections made in East Africa by Theodore Roosevelt, Paul Rainey,
and other collectors.

During Mr. Hollister’s term of office as superintendent the Na-
tional Zoological Park showed a steady growth and development,
the collection of animals in the Park being greater in numbers and
in scientific value than ever before, and the number of visitors to
the park having increased steadily until it reached during the past
year a total of over 2,500,000. It was largely through Mr. Hollis-
ter’s efforts that Congress a few years ago provided funds for the
purchase of a frontage of 625 feet at the Connecticut Avenue
entrance to the park, thus insuring for the future a dignified and
appropriate approach.

Mr. Hollister was a member of many scientific societies and editor

of the Journal of Mammalogy.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 24

WASHINGTON I. ADAMS

Washington I. Adams, who was connected with the Institution
from 1896 until his retirement in 1924, died at Watertown, Mass.,
April 19, 1925. Mr. Adams came to the Institution as chief clerk of
the International Exchange Service, which position he held until
1905 when he was appointed chief disbursing agent, a position he
held until his retirement. Mr. Adams’s duties and responsibilities
were greatly increased in recent years due largely to the receipt of
the Freer bequest of over $3,000,000.

NEWTON P. SCUDDER

Newton P. Scudder, assistant librarian of the National Museum,
died on May 19, 1925, two months after his retirement from active
service. Mr. Scudder was given an appointment as clerk in 1882
and five years later was made an assistant librarian in the Museum,
which position he held until his retirement on March 9, 1925.

Mr. Scudder was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1853, and graduated
from Wesleyan University in 1879. His first work was with the
Bureau of Fisheries, and under its auspices he made a trip to the
halibut banks. As a result of this investigation two papers by him
on “The Halibut Fishery, Davis Strait,” and “The Salt Halibut
Fishery,” were published by the Bureau of Fisheries. Following
this work, Mr. Scudder came to the Museum library, where he re-
mained until his recent retirement.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuartes D. Watcort, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925.

The appropriations for the maintenance of the National Museum
for the fiscal year amounted to $584,792, an increase of $52,396 over
the previous year. ‘This increase, however, is more apparent than
real so far as providing additional funds for the operation of the
Museum is concerned, since $44,534 of the amount represented
the sum required for increase of salaries from the inauguration
of the schedules authorized by the reclassification act of 1923, which
became effective July 1, 1924, while subsequent reallocations of
employees by the Personnel Classification Board resulted in increas-
ing salary allotments approximately $9,000 beyond the estimated
amount. It thus transpired that the amounts available for actual
operating expenses were less than during the previous year. More-
over, the reclassification act had the effect of reducing the amount
provided for printing and binding since increase in salaries in the
Government Printing Office inaugurated under it resulted in
increased cost in printing, thus reducing the production value of the
sum allotted for that purpose to the eee

Attention has been called repeatedly in these aria reports on
operation to the great disproportion between the increase in the
appropriations provided for the maintenance of the Museum and
- the increase in the size of its collections, as well as in the quantity,
scope, and importance of its exhibition and research work and its
service to the public at large. Through the unselfish efforts of the
personnel and the practice of the most rigid economy it has been
possible until now to maintain a high degree of efficiency, but the
very fact of its steady growth will curtail the usefulness of the
Museum as a factor in the field of science and education unless it
can be assured of sufficient funds to cover its natural and proper
expansion. There is urgent need now for additional funds for
operation, and for reasonable sums for the purchase of specimens
and for use in minor explorations. Rich additions to the collections
are received each year through specimens deposited by Government
agencies or presented by private donors. Definite gaps in all lines
exist, however, that may be filled only by purchase of desirable

28
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

things or by small sums spent in field work to acquire them. Speci-
mens actually needed are obtainable usually only at long intervals
and if such opportunities are allowed to pass further chance to
acquire them may be remote or uncertain. Highly desirable things
offered at reasonable prices are refused nearly every week. The
Institution should have available moderate funds that might be used
for such purposes.

Need of funds for exploration is also imperative since through
this means only is it practicable to obtain data and information of
importance in connection with many objects desired for the collec-
tions. Definite research on the part of experts is often required to
clear up doubtful points in source or relationship of many things.

More and more each year the National Museum is approached
for authentic information in a wide range of subjects not to be ob-
tained elsewhere. Its vast collections of carefully arranged and
classified specimens afford a full record of industrial, social, and
esthetic progress as well as of painstaking and exhaustive research
work in the natural sciences. In it are gathered the results of
governmental activities and private donations aggregating many
millions of dollars. The Museum collections serve as a foundation
for the economic work of such great Government organizations as
the Department of Agriculture, the Geological Survey, and others,
and the members of the scientific staff assist materially in the work
of these institutions through identification and report on the various
objects with which they are concerned. To maintain its position of
constantly increasing importance in the field of Government service
and to fulfill its function as a truly national museum, it is absolutely
necessary that adequate funds be provided for its proper main-
tenance. It is sincerely hoped that its needs in this direction will
be recognized and provided for by suitable appropriations.

Final establishment of the salary schedules under the reclassifica-
tion act brought the salaries paid to members of the scientific staff in
the National Museum in most cases to a parity with those doing simi-
lar work in other departments, and has thus in large part corrected a
lamentable condition in which members of the staff were paid at
rates established many years ago and which in modern circumstances
had become wholly inadequate. The increased salaries available
have allowed the filling of several vacancies that have existed for
some time and to fill which there were no suitable candidates at
previous rates of pay. Adjustments in allocation in certain posi-
tions still remain to be made before the scale in force is just and
equitable in all its features, as it is felt that the rates assigned in
some positions do not correspond with the grades or emoluments
applied to similar positions in other branches of Government service.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The financial assistance accorded to members of the scientific staff
has been greatly appreciated but attention is drawn to the necessity
of keeping this matter in mind so that faithful service may be
further rewarded. Provision is made in the reclassification act for
increase in salary to the average amount in the various grades, pro-
vided a suitable record of efficiency is maintained. Two surveys of
efficiency of the entire staff have been made in accordance with regu-
lations laid down by the Personnel Classification Board, and in fur-
ther accordance with the regulations of that board the ratings
assigned have been transmitted to the staff. It is highly gratifying
to record that with very few exceptions these ratings have been
excellent and have been of such a degree that they warrant promo-
tion. Under existing appropriations, funds for the proper advance-
ment indicated are not available. The matter is earnestly recom-
mended for serious consideration to the end that money may be pro-
vided to make the necessary increase. Such action has been taken in
other departments and it is sincerely desired to avoid falling behind
in this respect as was the case under former salary regulations.

Though not universally recognized as an element in educational
activities, the National Museum fulfills a threefold function in that
field. Through the care and preservation of its vast and inestimably
valuable collections and their careful arrangement and classification,
it affords a visual record of progress and development of our own
and foreign peoples, of important advances in the history of our
country, and of achievements in science, industry, and art. As a
museum of research it affords opportunity to the trained specialist
and to the serious student to pursue studies of all kinds with facili-
ties not elsewhere obtainable. It is seen as a museum of education by
the visiting public, who come to examine the many treasures in the
exhibition halls, while through its publications, correspondence, and
distribution of duplicate specimens it reaches thousands who are not
so fortunate as to be able to visit its halls. It may be safely said
that no textbook, work of reference, or encyclopedia of facts has been
issued in this country in recent years that has not based some of its
statements on information originating in the National Museum.

As a modern feature for the dissemination of knowledge may be
mentioned the radio program of the Smithsonian Institution organ-
ized last year which has continued under the direction of Mr. Austin
H. Clark of the Museum staff in cooperation with the broadcasting
station WRC, Radio Corporation of America. In all, 28 talks, of
15 minutes each, were given during the winter, 10 being by members
of the staff of the Institution, including 7 from the Museum. Four
of these talks were broadcast also by stations WJY and WJZ in
New York City, reaching thus a broad audience. The talks, which
began October 2, 1924, and were concluded on May 14, 1925, were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

delivered by 25 individual speakers. The subjects chosen came from
a wide range in the field of science and proved highly popular as
attested by the many letters received from listeners far and near.
Some of them have been published in permanent form. Possibilities
in the spread of authentic scientific information through this means
are great, since in this way informational talks prepared in an inter-
esting manner go out to an extended audience fully appreciative of
what they hear. It is possible thus to present the newer facts and
changing aspects of science in a manner unequaled by other means.

As was anticipated when the Loeb collection of chemical types was
placed under the special charge of a paid curator, splendid progress
has been made. Through the activities of Mr. O. E. Roberts, jr., the
curator, and cooperation on the part of many chemists and organiza-
tions, 616 new specimens have been added to the collection during
the year. The importance of such a collection is only just begin-
ning to be realized, but the interest already taken in it by specialists
in chemical research work in indicative of the important results
eventually to be achieved.

COLLECTIONS

The results of the year show a most satisfactory growth in the
collections, the total number of specimens received amounting to
363,490, while additional lots of material received for examination
and report numbered 1,232. The number of additions exceeds
slightly the very high mark attained last year, while material for
report also shows a slight increase. The increases are highly grati-
fying and have brought a great amount of extremely valuable ma-
terial to the collections.

As in previous years, duplicate specimens were distributed as
gifts to educational institutions or utilized in the making of ex-
changes for specimens needed toward completing the collections.
The material thus disposed of amounted to 231,244 specimens, of
which 2,099 represent gifts. An additional lot of material, com-
prising 33,966 specimens, was distributed in the form of loans to
specialists and students for study and identification.

The following résumé of the more important accessions received
during the year is submitted by the heads of the several depart-
ments or divisions of the Museum:

Anthropology.—The department of anthropology reports a year
of satisfactory progress in all lines of its activities.

In the division of ethnology there was received a unique series
of objects illustrating the material culture of the Indians of eastern
Panama as a result of the explorations of the Marsh-Darien expedi-
tion cooperating with the Smithsonian Institution. This collection is
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

regarded as of such scientific interest that a special paper describing
it has been prepared and submitted for publication. Another acces-
sion of particular beauty and rarity was the remainder of the
collection of California Indian baskets bequeathed by the late Miss
Ella F. Hubby, of Pasadena.

Among additions in American archeology may be mentioned col-
Jections from Town Creek, Ala., on the site of Wilson Dam, Muscle
Shoals, and from Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Fla., collected by
Gerard Fowke and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, respectively, and trans-
ferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology. ‘The first of these
is especially valuable, since it comes from a locality that will be
covered by water when impounded by the dam.

The accessions in the division of Old World archeology include a
copy of the Welsh version of the Bible from David W. Evans and
numerous Egyptian and Graeco-Roman antiquities and ancient
glassware loaned by Edward Sampson.

In physical anthropology there were added several casts of the
remains of the famous Trinil man of Java, Pithecanthropus erectus,
received from Dr. Eugene Dubois, who has been engaged in ex-
haustive studies of this highly important fossil. Also there has
been received from the British Museum a cast of the skull found re-
cently at Broken Hill in Rhodesia. Other important casts repre-
sent remains of ancient man from Czechoslovakia. These will all be
of great assistance in studies of ancient man. ‘The Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology transferred skeletal material from Florida, and the
National Geographic Society presented important skeletons found in
excavations at Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo, New Mexico.
The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences donated a collection of Iro-
quois skeletal material collected in Erie County, N. Y.

Mr. Hugo Worch has added to the Worch collection of pianos
four splendidly decorated harpsichords of the sixteenth and seven-
teenth centuries. Miss Frances Densmore completed her study of the
collection of musical instruments and submitted a manuscript de-
scriptive of it.

The ceramic collection was augmented by a collection of English
porcelain and glass, gift of Mrs. Frances Roome Powers.

In art textiles, the valuable laces of the late Mrs. H. K. Porter
were continued as a loan by her daughter, Miss Hegeman. By be-
quest of the late Miss Emily Tuckerman, all specimens belonging
to her on deposit in the Museum were made a gift. The Misses
Long contributed several fine specimens of embroidery and lace.

The department profited especially through explorations by the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Geographic Society,
and the Marsh-Darien expedition. Neil M. Judd, in charge of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

the excavations carried on under the auspices of the National Geo-
eraphic Society at Pueblo Bonito, remained in the field for several
months and secured excellent collections and highly important in-
formation. Henry B. Collins, jr., conducted explorations at ancient
village sites in Mississippi, where valuable studies have resulted
from intensive work in the field.

Biology.—tIncrease in the collections in the various divisions of
this department have equaled and in some cases have excelled those
recorded for the previous year. Of outstanding interest is the col-
lection of coleoptera and mollusks that came to the Museum by
bequest of the late Col. Thomas Lincoln Casey. The beetles alone
in this collection are estimated at approximately 90,000 specimens
representing 16,000 species of which 5,000 were described by Colonel
Casey and are represented by the types.

The large collections presented by the National Geographic
Society as the result of expeditions in China by Dr. J. F. Rock and
Mr. F. R. Wulsin include a total of over 4,500 specimens of verte-
brates and 68,000 plants, a wonderful store of rich material that has
added greatly to the representation from that area, for, in addition
to a number of forms previqusly unknown to science, there are in the
collection many species not before represented in this institution.
Additional collections from China have come through the continued
efforts of Rey. D. C. Graham in western Szechwan, which have added
vertebrates and valuable insects. China has been further represented
in our accessions by material collected by A. deC. Sowerby, pre-
sented through the continued interest of Mr. R. S. Clark.

Mr. B. H. Swales has continued his important additions to the
collections of birds by the purchase of a considerable number of
species not previously represented including a number of rarities
from Madagascar. Further acquisitions through the interest of Dr.
Casey A. Wood have resulted in additional specimens from Fiji.
Dr. Hugh M. Smith, now in Siam, has begun presentation of
valuable material from a region almost unknown in our collections
and has included among other things in his first sending a highly
valuable lot of marine invertebrates.

Valuable collections of fishes have come from the H. K. Mulford
Co., of Philadelphia. Certain important specimens have been pur-
chased for the collections of mollusks from the income provided
for that purpose by the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund.

In the exhibition halls there was installed a new group of Rocky
Mountain goats prepared from material collected by Secretary and
Mrs. C. D. Walcott; the case represents a family of four with an
appropriate background of rockwork. A number of older mounts
of other mammals have been replaced by material prepared by
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

modern methods and additions have been made to the collections
exhibiting the local fauna. A second group not quite completed is
that of the dik-dik, a diminutive antelope from Africa.

Geology.—Although a decrease is shown in the number of acces-
sions and amount of material received in this department as com-
pared with 1923-24, reference to earlier reports shows the present
year to be an average one, with a total of 198 accessions, aggregating
79,674 specimens.

The paleontological collections are again the chief beneficiaries,
notable among the acquisitions being the results of Secretary Wal-
cott’s field work for the past four years, as well as collections made
by Doctors Bassler, Resser, and Ulrich in the summer of 1924.
Gifts also materially increased the collections of invertebrate fossils,
particularly those of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic periods, and one
bequest added many thousands of specimens, including types.

In vertebrate paleontology the most important acquisition is a
series of footprints from Permian deposits secured by Mr. C. W.
Gilmore from the Hermit Trail, Grand Canyon National Park,
working under the auspices of the National Park Service. Dr. J. C.
Merriam, of the Carnegie Institution, of Washington, who was
instrumental in perfecting the arrangements under which this ma-
terial was secured, supplemented it by additional specimens taken
personally. The fossil cetacean collection has also been materially
increased and is now thought to be probably the largest and best
preserved assemblage of these forms in any American institution.

A series of unusual forms of stalactites and stalagmites from
Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, presented by the National Geo-
graphic Society, permitted the installation of an important addition
to the exhibits showing cave phenomena.

In the field of applied geology the most important material re-
ceived was that obtained by Assistant Curator Foshag while work-
ing with a United States Geological Survey field party in New Mex-
ico. Doctor Foshag also collected much mineralogical material
needed for the study collections. A few striking exhibition speci-
mens of ores were obtained from various sources.

Col. W. A. Roebling was the chief contributor to the mineral col-
lections, 6 accessions comprising 51 specimens being credited to him
during the year. The most notable of these is a group of axinite
crystals thought to be the largest of this mineral yet found.

A crystal of the new mineral, afwillite, donated by Mr. Alpheus
F. Williams, is of particular interest in being one of the type lot
which consists of less than a pound of the material. Notable speci-
mens for exhibition were furnished through Mr. F. L. Hess, of which
a group of large wulfenite crystals from Mexico, and a mass of
pink muscovite and amblygonite from New Mexico are prominent
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

Through the interest of Mr. Worcester R. Warner and the courtesy
of the Fukushima Co. (Inc.), New York, the department of geology
has been privileged to exhibit a crystal ball of unusual size and per-
fection, weighing 110 pounds and measuring 1314 inches in diameter,
which is said to be the largest of its kind known. This has attracted
much attention from visitors.

Exchanges have added materially to the collections in all divisions
of the department, both for exhibition and study, and a few objects
have been acquired by purchase. Several additions have been made
to the meteorite collection, consisting chiefly of fragments of mod-
erate size, which, while important from a scientific standpoint, add
little to the exhibits. A number of gems have been added to the
Isaac Lea collection through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund.

Secretary Walcott continued his researches in British Columbia;
Dr. R. S. Bassler, in Tennessee, in cooperation with the geological
survey of that State; Dr. C. E. Resser, in the Rocky Mountain re-
gion of the United States; and Dr. W. F. Foshag was detailed to
accompany 2a geological survey party in New Mexico. Mr. C. W.
Gilmore spent some weeks in the Grand Canyon National Park,
under the auspices of the National Park Service.

Work on the exhibits has been chiefly confined to cleaning and
rearranging, no important changes having been made. In strati-
graphic paleontology much time and effort have been consumed in
expansion of the collections and in general cleaning and rearranging
of the paleobotanical collections. The efforts of the force in verte-
brate paleontology have been confined almost wholly to the prepara-
tion of the huge dinosaur skeleton, collected last year, with satis-
factory results.

Research work has continued to the extent permitted by other
duties.

Arts and industries—Growth in this department has been satis-
factory in the main though hampered in many lines by crowding.
Materials for accession are selected with great care, but so much
that is wholly desirable is offered that available facilities for ex-
hibition are greatly overtaxed.

In the division of mechanical and mineral technology there was a
slight falling off in the number of accessions received and a material
decrease in the number of specimens catalogued during the year, due,
primarily, to a lack of exhibition and storage space. This condition
is aggravated more and more each year and will lead to further de-
crease in the rate of acceptance of objects for the collection since
now choice may be made only of things urgently required.

In the transportation section one early type of automobile was re-
ceived, a Knox car made in 1901, presented by Mrs. Lansing Van
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Auken, Watervliet, N. Y. The signal section of the American Rail-
way Association added to its series of specimens, showing develop-
ments in railway signaling, 16 objects that indicate some of the
early efforts in block signaling. The Buda Co., of Harvey, IIl., pre-
sented a full-size gasoline automobile engine operated by an glec-
tric motor specially arranged for exhibition. By pressing a but-
{on it may be put in operation, thus permitting study of many of
the working parts in action. Mr. Henry Ford presented a specially
prepared exhibit of the planetary transmission used in the Ford
uutomobile. As this is one of the distinctive types of automobile
transmissions it will form an interesting part of an exhibit now
under way designed to illustrate the various fundamental units com-
posing the automobile.

The Portland Cement Association, of Chicago, Ill., through its
local office, presented a full-size photographic copy, suitably framed,
of the original patent on Portland cement granted by King George
III to Joseph Aspdin in 1824. The presentation of this interesting
paper was made in the presence of about 12 officials representing
various departments of the Government interested in Portland
cement and was accepted on behalf of the Museum by Secretary
Walcott. The framed copy now hangs in close proximity to the
exhibit on Portland cement in the division of mineral technology.

The collections under the supervision of the curator of textiles,
which, besides textiles, embrace wood technology, foods, animal
products, organic chemistry, and medicine, were increased by many
eifts and by transfer of material from other Government bureaus,
amounting in all to over 8,800 objects. A statement concerning the
most important of these follows:

Series of industrial specimens illustrating many branches of
rubber manufacture, the manufacture of sealing wax, and a model
showing the preparation and dyeing of furs were added to the
collections from the field of industrial chemistry. The textile col-
lections were increased by gifts of fibers, yarns, silk and cotton
dress and drapery fabrics, wool fabrics, mohair plushes, and machine
embroideries; also many examples of modern handicraft. To the
collections arranged to show the importance of wood and the indus-
tries based thereon were added veneered panels of wood used in
the furniture industry, showing the different kinds of finishes used,
a series of specimens demonstrating the manufacture of lead pencils,
and a large timber of Douglas fir to represent an important product
of the forests of the Pacific Northwest. The collections added to
the division of medicine were chiefly in the field of public health,
and consisted of models and posters showing advances in sanitary
science. Specimens of materia medica and numerous objects asso-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

ciated with the history of medicine in America were among other
additions to this division.

Work of the devision of graphic arts continued mainly along lines
developed in past years, and consisted of improving and completing
existing series of specimens and the continuance of special exhibi-
tions. Fourteen of the latter held during the year attracted favor-
able attention. Valuable additions to exhibit materials have been
received or promised as a result of these exhibits.

One important new exhibit of microengraving has attracted much
attention. It consists of “'The Lord’s Prayer” engraved on glass in
a square space about ;,455 of an inch on a side, so arranged that
it is viewed under a miscrope through the eye of a needle. ‘The
entire exhibit was prepared and presented by Alfred McEwen, of
New York City.

The exhibit of mezzotints has been completely rearranged, with
additions of new specimens to the historical series and of two series
of plates and prints to the technical set, so that it now presents a
clear idea of the early and modern methods of engraving mezzotints.

The collection illustrating methods used in printing for the blind
has also been greatly improved by the incorporation of additional
material which gives a clear idea of the method of making and print-
ing the special plates required in this work and the manner in which
the characters are read by the blind.

Three Babylonian tablets about 4,000 years old, inscribed with
cuneiform writing, acquired by purchase, have been placed with the
exhibits on the history of writing where they make an interesting
addition. Two of these of small size are of baked clay and represent
a skillful form of writing. The other represents the effort of a
schoolboy learning to write, and, while crude, is of considerable in-
terest. Tablets of this latter kind are very rare, as they are of un-
baked clay and were not intended to be permanently preserved.

From Mr. B. M. Comerford, of Washington, D. C., were received
four examples of the rare and beautiful art of fore-edge decorating,
which consists of painting on the small portions of the leaves of a
book that are exposed when the back is pushed out of normal posi-
tion. The picture disappears when the book is closed. This art is
said to have been originated by Samuel Mearne, who is reported to
have practiced it as early as 1662.

The aquatone process, which was mentioned in last year’s report
as a new and beautiful development among modern photomechanical
processes, is now represented by an exhibit indicating the technical
steps in the process of preparing and printing such a plate. This
is the gift of Wiliam Edwin Rudge, of New York, and shows well
the simplicity of the process and the beauty of the results obtained.

76041—26——4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The two traveling exhibits prepared by the division have been out
almost continuously, and have been shown by various art museums
and graphic art organizations in the eastern half of the country,
including those in Milwaukee, Wis., Brooklyn, N. Y., and Houston,
Tex., as well as many intermediate points. Four other smaller ex-
hibits are being prepared, which likewise depict the technical side
of graphic arts but on a smaller scale. These consist of 25 mats,
measuring 14 by 17 inches, weighing approximately 30 pounds, that
can be shipped by mail at very small expense. The larger exhibits,
which weigh 320 and 480 pounds, respectively, are forwarded by
express.

The collection of photographs in the section of photography is
becoming one of the most important public collections in the coun-
try, due to the efforts of A. J. Olmsted, custodian, and Mr. Floyd
Vail, of New York City.

History.—The additions to the historical collections surpass both
in number and scientific importance those received during the previ-
ous year. The military collections have been increased by the addi-
tion of a number of objects of special interest, among which are a
presentation sword, flags, uniforms and accessories, and medals and
badges owned by Lieut. Gen. Nelson A. Miles. The sword was pre-
sented to General Miles in 1887 by citizens of the State of Arizona
in recognition of his services in connection with the capture of the
Indian chief, Geronimo, and his band of hostile Apaches. The
medals and badges include the Congressional Medal of Honor and
the badge of the Society of the Cincinnati. An object of special in-
terest in this connection is a large heart-shaped shield of silver and
bronze which was presented to General Miles by the officers of the
Fifth United States Infantry. These objects have been received by
the Museum from Mrs. Samuel Reber and Maj. Sherman Miles,
United States Army. A number of presentation and service swords
owned during the nineteenth century by Maj. Gen. Frank Wheaton,
United States Army, have been presented to the Museum by Mrs.
Frank Wheaton. From Gen. John J. Pershing was received a num-
ber of military flags, maps, and posters, and the office desk and acces-
sories which he used at the headquarters of the American Expedi-
tionary Forces at Chaumont, France, during the World War.

The naval collections have been increased by the addition of a
sword and two uniform coats owned during the early part of the
nineteenth century by Commodore Samuel Woodhouse, United
States Navy, which have been presented by Dr. Samuel W. Wood-
house, jr., and also by the transfer from the Navy Department of a
series of 17 models illustrating the development of the United States
Navy during the period from 1776 to 1920,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

Through the cooperation of the United States Treasury Depart-
ment, a number of valuable United States and foreign coins and
medals have been added to the numismatic collections. Of special
interest in this connection has been the transfer from the Treasury
Department to the Museum of about 800 publications, forming a
highly useful library, on the subject of numismatics.

The portrait collection was increased by the following additions:
A portrait of Elizabeth Cady Stanton by Anna E. Klumpke was
presented by the National American Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion; portraits of Gen. John J. Pershing and Marshal Ferdinand
Foch were presented by the artist, Victor Perard. A portrait of
President Warren G. Harding, by John Innes, showing the former
delivering an address at Stanley Park, British Columbia, July 29,
1923, was presented to the Museum by the National Press Club,
Washington, D. C.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The greater part of the material added to the collections during
the current year was as usual derived from expeditions and ex-
plorations under the auspices of private organizations and Govern-
ment agencies.

In biology the National Geographic Society was a large con-
tributor through its expeditions in China, in the Arctic, and in this
country. From the former extremely valuable and extensive col-
lections, comprising some 68,000 plants, over 1,600 birds, 60 mam-
mals, and other specimens, were received from the society’s expedi-
tion under Dr. Joseph F. Rock, principally from the Province of
Yunnan. The bulk of the material collected by the society’s expedi-
tion under Mr. F. R. Wulsin, which has been referred to in previous
reports, was received during the past fiscal year. It comprised im-
portant and extensive collections of birds, mammals, reptiles, and
fishes from inner Mongolia, the Alashan Desert, and Western Kansu,
in the region of Lake Kokonor, northeastern Tibet, as well as from
the Min Sha Range, which marks the boundary between the
Provinces of Kansu and Szechwan. The specimens from this source
are of particular importance, since they afford topotypes of numer-
ous species described from Przevalski’s famous exploring trip of 50
years before. They also include important ethnological material
from a region not heretofore represented in this institution. The
collections from these sources supplement those made by Mr. R. S.
Clark and Mr. Arthur deC. Sowerby in 1908-9 in Kansu, Thansi,
and Shensi, and the important collections made during the past
year by Rev. David C. Graham in Szechwan. The latter were
secured on a difficult trip to Songpan and the Yellow Dragon Gorge,
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

and comprise many specimens new to the Museum. Incidental to the
Arctic explorations undertaken for the National Geographic So-
ciety in Bering Sea and Arctic America during the summer of 1924
by Capt. R. A. Bartlett, and by Mr. D. B. Macmillan in the Bowdoin
in Greenland in 1924, some interesting zoological material was se-
cured and presented to the Museum. In August, 1924, Mr. Paul C.
Standley was detailed as a member of the Carlsbad Cavern expedi-
tion of the National Geographic Society, his association in the en-
terprise resulting in a collection of some 500 specimens of plants,
many of species not previously known from New Mexico. A popu-
lar account of the vegetation of the Carlsbad Cavern region has
been prepared for publication largely on the basis of this field
work. Under the auspices of Mr. Robert S. Clark, several eastern
Provinces in China were visited by Mr. Arthur deC. Sowerby, from
whom extensive collections were received. Dr. Hugh M. Smith,
who is at present fisheries adviser to the Siamese Government, for-
warded interesting zoological material from that country.

As a result of his visit to Haiti during the spring of 1925, Mr.
Gerrit S. Miller, jr., of the Museum staff, secured a collection of
the extinct vertebrate cave fauna as well as miscellaneous specimens
of the living mammals, birds, reptiles, insects, and plants of the
island. Doctor Bartsch continued his experiments with Cerions,
through the assistance of the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
his visit to the experimental colonies of these mollusks planted on
the Florida Keys resulting in the addition of some 2,700 specimens
to the collections. In addition, through the cooperation of the
United States Coast Guard, he was able, with the assistance of Mr.
W. B. Marshall of the Museum staff, to do some dredging in the
inner leads of Cape May and in the shallow waters off the coast
of New Jersey, which resulted in adding quite a number of speci-
mens from a region little explored. A survey of the fisheries of
the Republic of Salvador, undertaken by 8S. F. Hildebrand and
F. J. Foster, of the United States Bureau of Fisheries, at the request
and at the expense of the Salvadorean Government, resulted in the
collection and subsequent transfer to the Museum of a large collec-
tion of fishes and some crustaceans from the region referred to.
Secretary Walcott’s field work in the Canadian Rockies, in addi-
tion to yielding important paleontological material, added a num-
ber of valuable zoological specimens, some of which have been
utilized in preparing a new exhibition group of Rocky Mout.tain
goats in the Mammal Hall of the Museum. As the result of the
‘detail by the Department of Agriculture of Mrs. Agnes Chase, of
the Bureau of Plant Industry, to field work in the eastern high-
lands of Brazil, important botanical material was received for the
National Herbarium.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4]

Dr. William Schaus, honorary assistant curator of insects, through
personal efforts raised the sum of $50,000 for the purchase of the
famous collection of Lepidoptera gathered by M. Paul Dognin,
Wimile, France, comprising a series of specimens highly valuable
for studies of these important insects. Doctor Schaus went to
France to supervise the packing of this collection for shipment to
the museum, where it has been received, although not in time to be
included in more detail in report.

The material secured by the Marsh-Darien expedition to Panama,
referred to in last year’s report, was received during the past year.
It contained so much interesting ethnological material of a class
not previously represented in our collections that it has been made
the basis of a special report prepared by Mr. H. W. Krieger, curator
of ethnology. Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American archeology
in charge of the Pueblo Bonito expedition of the National Geo-
graphic Society, secured important collections for the Museum, and
equally important material was secured by Mr. Gerard Fowke
under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology from
burial sites near Muscle Shoals, Ala., which will soon be covered by
water impounded by the Wilson Dam. Doctor Fewkes, Chief
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, assisted by Mr. M. W.
Stirling, of the department of anthropology, conducted an explora-
tion of ancient Indian mounds at St. Petersburg, Fla., which resulted
in important finds and material valuable to the collections. Dr.
AleS Hrdli¢ka, of the Museum staff, assisted by a generous grant
from the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, left in March for
an extended trip through the Far East, Australia, and South Africa
for the purpose of observing at first hand a number of peculiar
races of men and to collect data on various discoveries of ancient
man.

Under the auspices of the United States Geological Survey, Dr.
W. F. Foshag, of the Museum staff, was enabled to make collections
and to visit mineral properties in western Nevada where acquaint-
ances made with mine owners and collectors will inure greatly
to the benefit of the Museum. He also collected a series of minerals
from California. Short trips to various localities in Maryland
were made by Mr. Earl V. Shannon, of the Department of Geology,
in cooperation with the State geological survey, and to Connecticut
through an arrangement with the geological and natural history
survey of that State, which resulted in necessary additions to our
collections. Aided by grants from the O. C. Marsh and Joseph
Henry endowment funds of the National Academy of Sciences,
Secretary Walcott continued his field work in western Alberta
for the purpose of completing his reconnaissance of the pre-Devonian
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

formations north of Bow Valley, the main objects of this year’s
work being to determine the correct geologic horizon of the Lyell
limestone. Many attempts to do this during the past six years
resulted in failure, and it really seemed that these great lime-
stone beds were barren of fossils. In measuring geologic sections
in the Tilted Mountain Area, however, interbedded bluish-gray
layers containing fragments of Upper Cambrian trilobites were at
last found, which proved their correct geologic horizon.

Dr. Charles E. Resser continued his field explorations of the Cam-
brian and associated formations. Dr. R. S. Bassler, in cooperation
with the geological survey of Tennessee, continued his work in that
State, and at the same time made collections of Mississippian fossils
for the Museum. Mr. Erwin R. Pohl was detailed for a short time
to make collections from the celebrated Rysedorph conglomerate of
northern New York, which resulted in a good series of fossils for the
Museum.

In cooperation with the National Park Service, Mr. C. W. Gilmore,
curator of vertebrate paleontology, visited the Grand Canyon Na-
tional Park, Ariz., for the purpose of accompanying the Doheny
scientific expedition as an observer to investigate and make col-
lections of fossil tracks exposed in the Coconino sandstone and to
prepare an exhibit of the tracks in situ by the side of the Hermit
Trail leading into the Grand Canyon. His trip was a most success-
ful one in all of its aspects, a series of slabs some 2,000 pounds in
weight and containing a splendid series of the fossil footprints being
collected and shipped to the Museum. Dr. J. W. Gidley, of the geo-
logical staff of the Museum, visited the region around Melbourne,
Fla., on two occasions during the year and secured an interesting
collection of fossils. He also visited Adele, Iowa, for the purpose of
studying the geology of a formation in which had been found certain
human artifacts. Continuing the practice of previous years, Mr.
Norman Boss made several short trips to the Calvert Cliffs along
Chesapeake Bay in search of Miocene fossils.

A movement which promises important results to the Museum was
inaugurated in the summer of 1924, when the Secretary of the Navy
invited the Smithsonian Institution to participate in a conference of
representatives of the executive departments and scientific establish-
ments of the Government of the United States for the purpose of
formulating plans for a naval expedition to undertake investigations
in oceanography. Mr. Austin Clark, Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, and Dr.
Paul Bartsch, of the Museum staff, were designated as representa-
tives of the Institution on this occasion, and at the close of the meet-
ing Mr. Clark was chosen as representative of the Smithsonian In-
stitution and its branches on an executive interim committee.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43
BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The various buildings of the Museum have been kept in good con-
dition throughout the year through minor repairs, which have con-
sisted largely in painting walls, ceilings, and floors, repairing cracks
in plaster and cement surfaces, painting tin gutters and roofs, and
work of a similar character. In the Arts and Industries Building
new floors were laid in a few of the rooms and the ventilation im-
proved.

In the Smithsonian Building it was necessary to replace with
beaded sheets the entire plaster ceiling of the main hall on the third
floor, occupied by the Museum’s division of plants. The work was
done partly by contract and partly by the Museum force.

Under a special appropriation for the purpose, four modern fire
hydrants were installed under the direction of the District Commis-
sioners in the Smithsonian Park.

The cost of heating for the year was considerably less than during
the previous year, due partly to the lower cost of coal and partly to
the fact that for the first time in many years it was possible to
secure coal from the New River fields, which is better adapted to the
heating apparatus. During the year, 3,292 tons of bituminous and
15.5 tons of anthracite coal were used. The total electric current
generated during the year was 476,709 kilowatt-hours, at a total cost
of 2.362 cents per kilowatt-hour, including labor, material, interest,
and depreciation on the plant.

A total of 346.3 tons of ice were produced during the year at a
cost of $2.309 per ton. A new compressor has been purchased which,
with increase in the size of the condenser made during the year, will
increase the capacity of the ice machine from 2 to 2% tons per day.
Even with the cost of the new compressor included, the cost per ton
of ice will be under the wholesale price paid for ice by the Govern-
ment.

During the year 18 exhibition cases and bases and 127 pieces of
storage, laboratory, office, and other furniture were acquired by
purchase and construction. Of the storage cases 11 were purchased
and 116 built in the Museum shops.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The Department of Agriculture was granted the use of the audi-
torium on October 27, 28, and 31 for a series of lectures by Dr.
Vernon H. Blackman, of the Imperial College of Science and Tech-
nology in London, and on January 26 for a lecture on Agricultural
Research and the Community, by Sir Daniel Hall, scientific adviser
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

to the Minister of Agriculture in England, all lectures being open
to department workers and others. Other bureaus of this depart-
ment using the auditorium were the Forest Service for a series of
five lectures extending from October to June, the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics for an exhibition and talk on the evening of
April 20 by Mr. L. M. Estabrook, and the Federal Horticultural
Board on June 29 and 30, for public hearings on fruit and rose
stocks and the white-pine blister rust (when room 43 was also used),
and again on September 20 by the same board for a conference on
the white-pine blister rust quarantine. The auditorium and all com-
mittee rooms available were used for a naticnal conference on utiliza-
tion of forest products called by Secretary Wallace on November 19
and 20. On the afternoon of May 22, the department’s post, Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars of the United States, held memorial services
in the auditorium in honor of the late Henry C. Wallace, and of the
men of the Department of Agriculture who lost their lives in the
World War.

The Department of Commerce occupied the auditorium for the
National Radio Conference on October 7 and 8.

Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, of the Museum staff, gave two courses of lec-
tures on anthropology during the period from October 24 to Decem-
ber 19—Man’s Origin, on Friday afternoons in the auditorium,
and Man’s Physical and Physiological Characteristics, on Monday
afternoons in room 48. These proved highly popular and were well
attended.

Under the auspices of the School of Foreign Service, a series of
12 lectures were given in the auditorium by Dr. Edmund A.
Walsh, S. J., of Georgetown University, on Russia in Revolution.
These extended over a period from February 13 to May 15 and
attracted much attention.

Associations and societies using the auditorium and room 43 for
their annual meetings were the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, December 29 to January 3, and the American
Society of Mammalogists, April 8 to 10. The American Surgical
Association met in the auditorium May 4, 5, and 6, and on the same
dates the eighth annual meeting of the American Association for
Thoracic Surgery was held in room 43. On the evening of Janu-
ary 2 the division of insects of the Museum was thrown open to
members of the Entomological Society of America and the Associa-
tion of Economic Entomologists, who were in attendance at the
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence.

In addition to the foregoing the auditorium was used on various
occasions by the Wild Flower Preservation Society, the Audubon
Society of the District of Columbia, the District of Columbia Dental
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

Society, Washington Society of Engineers, Washington Chapter of
the American Association of Engineers, Practical Psychology Club,
and the Boy Scouts of the third division.

Among the scientific and other societies that met regularly in
room 43 were the Anthropological Society of Washington, the Ento-
mological Society of Washington, the American Horticutural So-
ciety, and the Society for Philosophical Inquiry. ‘Those using the
room from time to time were: The Audubon Society of the District
of Columbia during February and March for a series of talks by
Dr. Alexander Wetmore; the Helminthological Society of Washing-
ton, when Prof. E. Brumpt, of the University of Paris, made an
address; the Biological Society of Washington, for an address by
F. Johansen; the Washington Chapter of the American Institute
of Chemists; the directors and assistant directors of municipal play-
grounds; the Camp Fire Girls, and the Camp Fire Guardians; and
the Garden Homes Association for addresses intended “ to encourage
people to own a home and garden.”

Mr. Chr. Thams, minister of the Prince of Monaco to France,
on November 29 gave a lecture on the results of a journey under-
taken into eastern Africa for the purpose of advancing the cause
of conservation of wild life. The lecture was illustrated by a fine
series of moving pictures impressive for their accuracy in revealing
the habits of big game under natural conditions.

At the request of the Air Service Officers Reserve Corps, pictures
illustrating the flight around the world were shown in the audi-
torium on the evening of April 8.

On the evening of May 2 the auditorium was used for a private
showing of the historical picture made for the Commission of Re-
lief in Belgium, before Secretary Hoover, who was chairman of
that organization during the years of its operation from 1914 to
1919.

The auditorium was also used by the following: The Filipine
Club of Washington, on the evening of July 3, for a meeting to
celebrate the Fourth of July; El Club Cervantes, on the evening
of December 20, to celebrate the centenary of the Battle of Ayacucho,
the decisive battle in South America’s wars for independence; Senor
Don C. de Quesada, of the Cuban Embassy, on the evening of March
28 to celebrate the ratification of the treaty of the Isle of Pines and
in honor of the Spanish War Veterans; the Cornell Alumni Society
of Washington for a musical recital by Prof. Vladimir Karapetoff,
of Cornell University, on the evening of ‘April 23.

A national spelling bee was held in the auditorium on the eve-
ning of June 17, under the auspices of the Courier Journal and
Louisville Times, of Louisville, Ky.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

At the request of the Washington Chapter of the American In-
stitute of Banking all of the exhibition halls on the ground, first,
and second floors of the Natural History Building were opened on
the evening of July 19 for a reception to the members of the In-
stitute meeting in Washington at that time.

A joint meeting of the Anthropological Society of Washington,
the Washington Academy of Science, and the Art and Archeology
League, in conjunction with the Archeological Institute of America,
was held in the auditorium on the evening of December 16, during
which Count Byron Kuhn de Prorok gave a lecture on the “ Carthage
excavations, 1924,” and “'The dead cities of the Sahara.” After
the lecture a reception was held in the Art Gallery.

As one of the features of the meeting of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, on the evening of December 29,
members and their guests were received in the Art Gallery by the
Secretary of the Institution and Mrs. Walcott, at which time the
entire first floor of the building was open. On the evening of
June 10, the halls on the first and second floors were opened for
a reception to the delegates of the National Association of Credit
Men attending the convention held in Washington from June 8 to 13.

MISCELLANEOUS

For the first time in the history of the Museum the total number
of visitors to the several buildings reached more than 1,000,000.
These .were recorded at the several buildings as follows: Arts and
Industries, 304,858; Natural History, 557,016; Aircraft, 52,787;
Smithsonian, 107,342; a total of 1,022,003.

The Museum published 5 volumes and 70 separate papers during
the year while its distribution of publications amounted to 104,596
copies of books and pamphlets.

Additions to the library numbered 1,457 books and 1,894 pam-
phlets, mostly obtained by exchange or donation. With the funds
available, only a few books could be purchased. Important con-
tributions which have not yet been catalogued are the bequest by the
late Col. Thomas L. Casey of approximately 4,500 books and pam-
phlets, mostly relating to Coleoptera, which were not entirely as-
sorted until after the close of the year, and the transfer from the
Treasury Department of 800 books and pamphlets relating to the
science of numismatics.

Through the operation of the reclassification act, which became
effective July 1, 1924, the salary standards in the Museum, partic-
ularly of the scientific staff, were materially improved and for the
first time in many years every position in the Museum personnel was
filled. The staff in the department of anthropology was completed
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

through the appointment of Mr. Herbert W. Krieger as curator
and Mr. Henry B. Collins as assistant curator of ethnology. In the
department of arts and industries Miss Aida M. Doyle was appointed
aid to succeed Mr. Harry W. Rabinowitz, resigned, and in the divi-
sion of history Miss Hortense Hoad was appointed aid.

In accordance with the special provision, included in the last
appropriation act, creating a new Assistant Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution to have general charge of the museum interests
of the Institution, including the United States National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art and the National Zoological Park, the pres-
ent incumbent was honored with appointment to that office on the
Ist of April, 1925.

The Museum lost two employees during the year through the
operation of the retirement act, viz, Mr. N. P. Scudder, assistant
librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the Museum
library, and Robert Ghor, fireman. The only death among em-
ployees on the active rolls of the Museum was that of Israel Free-
man, a laborer, employed in the Museum over 15 years, who died on
July 16, 1924.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
affairs of the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June
30, 1925.

The activities of the gallery for the fifth year of its status as a
separate administrative unit of the Smithsonian Institution cor-
respond closely with those of previous years. The staff, which is
limited to the director and the recorder, has been occupied during
the year with the current work of the gallery; with the receipt,
record, installation, and care of the collections, permanent and tem-
porary; with the affairs of the gallery commission; with the devel-
opment of an art library; and with promotion of the gallery’s diver-
sified interests. Other employees are: a stenographer, a gallery at-
tendant, three watchmen, two laborers, two charwomen, and a
carpenter who is assigned to the gallery by the National Museum
when his services are required.

Additions to the gallery collections have fallen short of the aver-
age of previous years, the art works received by the Institution and
awaiting approval by the advisory committee of the gallery com-
mission not greatly exceeding a hundred thousand dollars in esti-
mated value. This falling off is due, at least in part, to the shortage
of exhibition space. Further important enrichment of the collec-
tions must thus await the erection of a gallery building, since collec-
tors seeking a final resting place for their treasures consider very
carefully their prospective installation and care. Mention may be
made here of the fact that during the period between 1904 and 1924,
the period during which suitable exhibition space happened to be
available in the museum buildings, accessions by gift and bequest
averaged in value approximately half a million dollars per year.
With a gallery building such as the nation should have, it is believed
that a million or millions annually would be within reasonable ex-
pectation. It is hardly within the range of possibility that a
second benefactor will appear who is willing to present the Govern-
ment with a building for his gift as did Mr. Freer, in order that the
gift might be accepted.

During the year much attention has been given to the prepara-
tion of preliminary plans for a gallery building. Although Con-
gress in 1921 set aside an appropriate site for a building, it was left

48
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

to the Institution to obtain funds necessary for the employment of
an architect to prepare the preliminary plans. As the result of an
appeal for this purpose by the Institution, $10,000 was raised by
private subscription, and Mr. Charles A. Platt was selected to pre-
pare the necessary plans. During the winter of 1923-24 Mr. Platt
spent several months in Europe engaged in the study of the more
important art galleries. The committee appointed by the Regents
of the Institution to collaborate with Mr. Platt on the plans, which
included in its membership Henry White, chairman, Frederic A.
Delano, Herbert Adams, Gari Melchers, J. H. Gest, and C. D. Wal-
cott, met in the Regents’ room on February 18, 1925, and Mr. Platt
presented the sketch plans, which he stated had been carried just
far enough to be submitted for consideration by the Institution.
Two hours were spent in examining the drawings, which comprised
plans of the three floors, sections of the building, and a detailed
drawing of the south front. Plans of a number of European gal-
leries were submitted for comparison, and details of hghting and
adaptation of space to the various requirements of the structure
were considered. Mr. Platt stated that if the regents desired to
have the work proceed the plans could be ready for the beginning
of construction within six months, and that if appropriations were
made available, the building could be completed in three years. It
was expected by Mr. Platt that granite would be employed in the
building. Questions of construction, employment of builders, and
cost were discussed at length. Mr. Platt stated that the building,
which as planned is 300 feet in width by 500 feet in length, will
contain 10,000,000 cubic feet of stonework, and that the cost will
hardly fall short of $1 per cubic foot. The committee accepted the
plans as entirely satisfactory and reported to that effect to the
Regents of the Institution.

The Platt drawings were first published in an article which ap-
peared in the American Magazine of Art, March, 1925, where they
were accompanied for purposes of comparison by the plans of a
number of the principal art museums of both Europe and America.
It is expected that the Regents of the Institution will, at the proper
moment, present these preliminary plans to the committees of Con-
gress having the erection of Government buildings in charge, for
their consideration.

The death of Senator Lodge, a member of the Board of Regents
of the Institution, who in 1924 offered in the Senate an amendment
to the deficiency appropriation bill providing seven millions for a
gallery building, leaves the movement without a militant head, but
another will doubtless take his place since the urgent need of a
building is now very generally recognized. The movement is Te-
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

garded as having much added strength as a result of the fact that,
as indicated in the Lodge resolution, the building when completed
is expected to accommodate the collections of American history as
well as those of art. The historical collections are of great popular
interest, occupying to-day 120,000 square feet of floor space in-the
Smithsonian and the two Museum buildings—space urgently needed
for the legitimate activities and vast collections of the several
branches of natural science.

MEETINGS OF THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The annual meeting of the gallery commission was held in the
Regents’ room of the Smithsonian Institution, on December 9, 1924.
The members present were: Gari Melchers, chairman, Herbert
Adams, Joseph H. Gest, John E. Lodge, Frank J. Mather, jr.,
Charles Moore, James Parmelee, Edward W. Redfield, Charles D.
Walcott, and William H. Holmes.

The very important problem of the inclusion in the prospective
gallery building of collections both of art and history, as indicated
in the Lodge resolution, was given attention and the view prevailed
that it would be advantageous, at least for a time, to have the two
departments in the same building, although definitely separated.

The question of the acceptance of works of art by the advisory
committee through the medium of correspondence was raised, and
after discussion it was resolved that hereafter, a majority of the
advisory committee be required to personally examine the works
before making recommendation. As a result of this action and the
impracticability of calling the committee to Washington for the
consideration of works offered from time to time, the practice has
been adopted of having all works of exceptionally high merit offered
to the gallery accepted by the Smithsonian Institution for submis-
sion to the advisory committee at the annual meeting of the com-
mission or on occasions of particular importance, at especially called
meetings of the committee.

Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell was selected a member of the commis-
sion to succeed Mr. Edwin H. Blashfield, resigned, and his appoint-
ment was recommended to the Board of Regents. Regarding the
expiration of the three-year terms of three members of the commis-
sion, Messrs. John KE. Lodge, James Parmelee, and E. W. Redfield, it
was decided to recommend to the Board of Regents the reelection
of these members for the succeeding term of four years. The pres-
ent members of the executive and advisory committees and the pres-
ent officers of the commission were reelected for the year 1925.

The Platt plans for the proposed National Gallery Building were
then presented by the secretary and were given careful considera-
tion by the members of the commission.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

The advisory committee of the commission met in the gallery
December 11, Gari Melchers, Miss Leila Mechlin, and W. H. Holmes
‘being present. The following works were given favorable consid-
eration :

Portrait of Hon. James R. Mann, by Gari Melchers.

Three paintings, the gift of Miss Emily Tuckerman: Hindoo
Merchants, by Edwin Lord Weeks; Landscape (on copper), by
Herman Saftleven; and The Refectory, by Eduardo Zamacois.

The personnel of the commission is as follows: Gari Melchers,
chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, jr., vice chairman; William H.
Holmes, secretary; Herbert Adams, W. K. Bixby, James E. Fraser,
Daniel Chester French, Joseph H. Gest, John E. Lodge, Charles
Moore, James Parmelee, A. Kingsley Porter, Herbert L. Pratt,
Edward W. Redfield, and Edmund C. Tarbell.

The executive committee is composed of Messrs. Moore, chair-
man, Gest, Holmes, Mather, jr., Parmelee, and Walcott; and the
advisory committee is composed of Messrs. Redfield, chairman,
Holmes, secretary, Adams, Melchers, Platt, Volk, and Miss Mechlin.

Subcommittees are as follows:

Committee on architecture, A. Kingsley Porter, chairman.

Committee on ancient European paintings, Frank J. Mather, jr., chairman.
Committee on prints, excepting the oriental, James Parmelee, chairman.
Committee on sculpture, Herbert Adams, chairman.

Committee on American paintings, E. W. Redfield, chairman.

Committee on ceramics, Joseph H. Gest, chairman.

Committee on oriental art, John BH. Lodge, chairman.

Committee on modern European paintings, Gari Melchers, chairman.
Committee on textiles, no chairman at present.

The personnel of special committees is as follows:

On National Portrait Gallery, Herbert L. Pratt, chairman.

On gallery building, Charles Moore, chairman.

On raising fund for preliminary building plans, James Parmelee, chair-
man, Charles Moore, Charles D. Walcott.

On selection of architect for preliminary plans, Henry White, chairman,
Herbert Adams, Frederic A. Delano, J. H. Gest, Gari Melchers, Charles D.
Walcott, ex officio.

On department of architecture,

On preservation of architectural gems,

ACTIVITIES OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS AND 'THE FEDERATION
OF WOMEN’S CLUBS

The work of the American Federation of Arts, in promoting the
development of the national gallery, deserves appreciative mention.
At its 1923 convention in St. Louis the following resolution was
unanimously adopted :

Whereas the United States is the only civilized nation which has no national
gallery of art; and whereas there is great need for a building to house our
Lip ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

national art collection which in the past few years has greatly increased in
size and value through gifts and bequests of public-spirited collectors and
individuals; and whereas, on account of the lack of space in which to exhibit
such gifts, this channel of beneficence is now checked; Be it

Resolved, That the American Federation of Arts undertake a campaign of
education and promotion throughout the United States, in order to acquaint
the people of existing conditions, in the hope that it may be their will when
the facts are known, that a sufficient sum be appropriated by Congress to
erect a suitable building at the National Capital to house the national col-
lections and to evidence to the world that we, as a people, recognize art to
be a factor in our national life.

Miss Leila Mechlin, secretary of the American Federation of
Arts, states that the federation has at present 375 chapters or affili-
ated organizations in all parts of the United States. The intention
of the federation is to secure the cooperation of these organizations,
and to interest a membership numbering several hundred thousand
individuals in the gallery movement.

Of like importance in the promotion of the national gallery are
the activities of the Federation of Women’s Clubs under the ener-
getic direction of Mrs. Rose V. S. Berry, chairman of the art
department of the federation. This great organization, whose ac-
tivities extend to every State in the Union, seeks as one of its pri-
mary responsibilities to promote the cause of art, and especially to
further art education in the most comprehensive manner. It seeks
to have the world realize that the place given the arts of taste in a
nation is an infallible test of the place that nation holds in the
scale of civilization; it maintains that the promotion of these arts
is thus a national responsibility. In its lecture courses and publi-
cations it utilizes the national collections, taking occasion to lay
stress upon the humiliating fact that the American nation makes no
adequate provision for the acquirement, care, and utilization of
collections illustrating the world’s achievements in the many
branches of art, ignoring the example of all other civilized nations.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY

An exhibit of exceptional interest held in the middle room of the
gallery March 3 to April 13 comprised 19 miniatures by Mr. Alyn
Williams and 34 works of sculpture by Mr. Cecil Thomas, both
exhibitors being Englishmen, although Mr. Williams spends much
of his time in the United States. The exhibitors very generously
prepared and had printed at their own expense a catalogue of the
exhibits, copies of which were freely distributed. During the ex-
hibit and for a short period thereafter Mr. Thomas was permitted to
occupy one of the gallery spare rooms as a studio where he modeled
two figure groups, The Duet and The Spirit of the Dance, the
inspiration for which had come to him while in Washington. While
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

thus engaged Mr. Thomas was fortunate in having sittings for a por-
trait bust by Sir Esme Howard, British ambassador to the United
States. This work met with gratifying approval and a replica in
plaster was presented by the sculptor to the Smithsonian !nstitution
at a dinner given in honor of Sir Esme by the Washington Branch
of the English-Speaking Union, on May 13. Presentation was
inade by the presiding officer of the occasion, and it was accepted by
Doctor Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with
appropriate words of appreciation.

A collection of portraits in oil and various studies in other tech-
niques by Leo Katz of Vienna, Austria, was shown in the two north
rooms of the gallery January 10 to February 15, and the exhibit,
comprising 35 items, proved of very special interest to the people of
Washington.

The gallery was fortunate in being permitted to place on view
from December 16 to February 15 a collection of art works in bronze
and terra cotta, nine in number, mainly busts of important person-
ages, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-McCormack. These were mounted on
appropriate pedestals in the south room of the gallery and included
busts of Benito Mussolini, Italian premier, in black marble, and
Henry P. Fletcher, ambassador to Italy, in bronze.

A collection of 72 water-color paintings of the scenery of the
national parks of the Rocky Mountain and Pacific coast regions, by
Gunnar Widforss, was exhibited in the middle room of the gallery
December 10 to January 10. These paintings were vivid and highly
realistic presentations of many remarkable subjects and attracted
much favorable attention.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

As the paintings purchased during the year by the council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger bequest are, under certain conditions, prospective
additions to the national collection, the list, including the names of
the institutions to which they have been assigned, is given here:

Title Artist sors Assignment

42. The Other Shore____- Robert Spencer, N. A__-__- Dec. 1,1924 | The Newark Museum Association,
Newark, N. J.

£3 Naney2 set a Lillian Wescott Hale_____|__--- does 2s The Denver Art Museum, Denver,
Colo.

44. Mheirpon 22255. ...4 Oscar E. Berninghaus-----}_---- (ere _.| The Art Club of Erie, Erie, Pa.

45. The Wood Cart_____- Louis Paul Dessar, N. A__| Apr. —, 1925

46 SAV Reaging oe: oe ess S Thomas W. Dewing, N. A_|____- G0 s-

AT. ADS sess ee ce ewes Dwight W. Tryon, N. A-_|_-_-- dos: 3555:

48. The Prodigal Son____| Horatio N. Walker, N. A_|____- donee

49. Storm Birds---_--_--- ATMIinvVelansensee © 6 = oI Bien dott"

50. helen 2s i= oe sae 23 Jerry Farnsworth--___-.---_|_---- dost |

51. Across the Valley:___| Hobart Nichols, N. A___-- June 9, 1925

76041—26. 5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The paintings purchased from the Ranger fund during the past
fiscal year and unassigned at its close (1923-24) have subsequently
been assigned as follows:

36. Midsummer, by William 8. Robinson, N. A.; to the art gallery of Washburn

College, Topeka, Kans.

37. The Bathers, by Spencer Nichols, A. N. A.; to the Art Hall of Beloit Col-
lege, Beloit, Wis.

39. The Necklace, by Richard E. Miller, N. A.; to the Butler Art Institute,
Youngstown, Ohio.

41. Clearing After September Gale—Maine Coast, by Howard Russell Butler,
N. A.; to the Art Association of Indianapolis, Ind.
ART WORKS ADDED DURING THE YEAR

Permanent accessions of art works for the year are as follows:

Three paintings, the gift of Miss Emily Tuckerman: Hindoo Mer-
chants, by Edwin Lord Weeks; Landscape (on copper), by Herman
Saftleven; and The Refectory, by Eduardo Zamagois.

Portrait of the late Hon. James R. Mann, member of the Board
of Regents of the Institution from 1906 to 1911, by Gari Melchers.
Gift of Mrs. James R. Mann.

Entrance portal to the Benjamin H. Warder house, 1515 K Street
NW., Washington, D. C., designed by the eminent architect, Henry
Hobson Richardson (1838-1886), including the door, carved trim
and coussoirs (Berea grit). Gift of the cooperating committee on
architecture in the National Gallery of Art, through Mr. Horace W.
Peaslee, acting chairman, and 13 subscribers.

A landscape in water color, The Patriarchs, Zion National Park,
by Gunnar Widforss. Gift of the artist.

Portrait of Chauncey Mitchell Depew, by George Burroughs Tor-
rey. Gift of the Hon. Chauncey M. Depew, for the National Por-
trait Gallery.

Portrait bust in plaster (bronzed) of the Rt. Hon. Sir Esme
William Howard, British ambassador to the United States, by Cecil
Thomas. Presented by Mr. Cecil Thomas through the Washington
branch of the English-Speaking Union.

The Libyan Sibyl, a statue in Carrara marble, heroic in size, by
William Wetmore Story, and a portrait bust of Napoleon Bonaparte,
in Carrara marble, by Raimondo Trentanove. Presented by the
estate of Henry Cabot Lodge, through Mr. John E. Lodge.

Portrait of Dr. Samuel Pierpont Langley, by Mme. M. de Left-
wich-Dodge. Gift to the Smithsonian Institution from Mme. A.
Langley Ciocea, of Rome, Italy, sister of Doctor Langley.

Medallion portrait (in plaster) of Dr. Charles W. Eliot, president
emeritus of Harvard University, by W. Clark Noble. Gift of Mr.
W. Clark Noble.

Collection of French and other art objects, including silverware,
furniture, porcelains, pottery, glassware, bronzes, etc. Bequest of
the Rev. Alfred Duane Pell, D, D., not as yet fully received and
recorded by the gallery.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Portrait bust in marble of the late Samuel Gompers, president
of the American Federation of Labor, by Moses Wainer Dykaar;
lent by the American Federation of Labor.

Four paintings lent by the estate of Henry Cabot Lodge, through
Mr. John E. Lodge, as follows: Portrait of Alexander Hamilton, by
John Trumbull; portrait of Fisher Ames, by Gilbert Stuart; River
Landscape with Cattle, by Constant Troyon; and Stable Interior
with Horses and Groom, by John F. Herring.

A painting of large size, The Annunciation, attributed to Lo-
renzo Sabbatini (or Perens da Bologna), lent by the MSS
McKey through Miss Laura M. McKey.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

Paintings belonging to the gallery were lent for exhibition else-
where, as follows:

The large painting entitled “The Happy Mother,” by Max Bohm,
lent to the Painters and Sculptors Association, Grand Central one
Galleries, to be included in an important ener exhibition of
the works of this artist in November, 1924. Returned to its place
in the gallery at the close of the exhibition.

The painting entitled “June,” by John W. Alexander, lent to
the American Federation of Arts for a special “Alexander ex-
hibit.” The collection was shown at Albany, N. Y., in the art
department of the State Teachers College, and later at Easton, Pa.,
where it was used by the art supervisor of the Easton school district.
The painting has been returned to its place in the gallery.

The three paintings, Birch Clad Hills, by Ben Foster, A Family
of Birches, by Willard Metcalf, and The Island, by Edward W.
Redfield, lent to the American Federation of Arts for the Interna-
tional Exhibition of Paintings by American Artists held in Venice,
Italy, during the summer of 1924, have been returned to the
gallery.

One set of colored slides of works belonging to the gallery, lent
to the American Federation of Arts, and a second set to the art
department of the American Federation of Women’s Clubs, are
retained for utilization by these organizations. In several instances
selections from the gallery’s collection of slides have been lent to the
normal schools of Washington and to the art department of Howard
University.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Paintings lent to the gallery have been withdrawn by their owners
during the year as follows:

Rosita, by I. Zuloaga; withdrawn by the Hon. John Cecil for Mrs.
George W. Vanderbilt.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Portrait of His Daughter, by Titian (copy?); withdrawn by Mr.
Joseph Stewart, who had purchased it from the former owner,
Dr. Nathan Boyd.

Self Portrait by James Deveaux; withdrawn by Dr. Houston
Mifflin, the owner, who had deposited it in the gallery through
Dr. Porter F. Cope.

The Pickering Dodge Collection of seven cameos; withdrawn by
Mrs. Charles W. Rae.

Portrait of Chief Justice Joseph C. Hornblower and portrait of
Mary B., his wife, artist unknown; portrait of Roderick Austin,
attributed to Sir Godfrey Kneller; and a painting representing a
sacrifice interrupted by soldiers, artist unknown; withdrawn by
Mrs. Caroline B. Hornblower.

Klingle Ford, by Max Weyl; withdrawn by Mrs. John W. Smith.

PUBLICATIONS

Holmes, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1923. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1923, pp. 45-58.

Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1924. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1924, pp. 48-58.

Catalogue of a collection of water-color paintings of the Grand Canyon of the
Colorado, Yellowstone National Park, Yosemite Valley, Zion National Park,
Utah National Park, and the Monterey Coast of California. Of special inter-
est to the Interior and Agriculture Departments. By Mr. Gunnar Widforss.
On view in the central room of the National Gallery, Natural History Build-
ing, United States National Museum, December 10 to January 10. Washing-
ton, 1924, pp. 1-4.

Catalogue of a collection of busts of prominent personages in bronze and terra
eotta, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-McCormack, on-view in the south room of the
National Gallery, Natural History Building, United States National Museum,
December 16, 1924, to January 16, 1925. 1924, pp. 1-4.

Catalogue of a collection of portraits and studies in different techniques, by Leo
Katz, of Vienna, Austria, on view in the north rooms of the National Gallery,
Natural History Building, United States National Museum, January 16 to
February 15, 1925. 1925, pp. 1-4.

Catalogue of recent miniature portraits by Alyn Williams, P. R. M. 8S. (Presi-
dent, Royal Miniature Society), and portrait busts in bronze and plaster, relief
portraits, medallions, carvings in precious and semiprecious stones, and
some great seals, by Cecil Thomas, R. M. S8., on view in the National Gallery,
Natural History Building, United States National Museum, March 3 to
March 22, 1925. 1925, pp. 1-8.

Respectfully submitted.
W. H. Hoitmss,

Director.
Dr. Cartes W. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the fifth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1925:

THE COLLECTION

Work has been continued during the year in the preservation of
the collection, and in the print collection a total of 1,056 objects
have now been put in final condition. A complete list of the Freer
Gallery collction of paintings, pastels, drawings, prints, and copper
plates by and attributed to American and Kuropean artists, together
‘with a list of original Whistleriana, has been prepared and is about
to be published in pamphlet form. This pamphlet will be placed
on sale with the other publications issued by the gallery.

Changes in exhibition during the year involved 46 oil paintings,
2 water colors, 12 pastels, 80 <tchings and dry points, 88 lithographs,
2 Japanese screens, 3 Japanese panels, 1 Japanese mahimono, +
Chinese panels, 2 Chinese scrolls, 11 Chinese bronzes, 1 Indian
bronze, and 2 Chinese textiles.

Additions to the collections have been as follows:

By gift of Charles A. Platt:
AMERICAN PASTEL
25.1. Whistler, James McNeill; portrait of Miss Hmily Tuckerman.

By purchase:
INDIAN BRONZE

24.10. Buddhist statuette: Samvara (Yi-dam, tutelary divinity). Nepal, fif-
teenth century.

INDIAN PAINTING

24.4. Laila Majnun. Mughal, time of Jahangir (1606-1628).

24.5. Adil Shih. Mughal, time of Jahangir (1606-1628).

24.6. Fireworks. Illuminated manuscript on the reverse. Mughal-Rajput,
time of Shah Jahan (1628-1658). By Muhammad Afzal.

24.7. MalaSri Raigini (a musical mode). Rajput, about 1600.

24.8. Bhairavi Ragini (a musical mode). Rajput, about 1675.

24.9. A visit to a temple. Rajput-Mughal, about 1675.

CHINESE BRONZE

25.2. Ceremonial vessel of the type tsun. FEarly Chou dynasty (1122 to 255

iB. G3):
25.8. Ceremonial wine vessel of the type chio. Chou dynasty (1122 to 255
Bes):

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

CHINESE PAINTING

24.3. Landscape: Breaking waves and autumn winds. A scroll. By Tai Chin.
Ming, middle fifteenth century.

NEAR EASTERN POTTERY

25.4. Bowl with painted decoration. Persian Rhages. Twelfth-thirteenth
century.

25.5. Bowl with painted deeoration. Persian, Rhages. Twelfth-thirteenth
century.

25.6. Bowl with decoration in gold luster. Persian. Eighth century.

25.7. A small dish with painted decoration under glaze. Arab. Tenth-
eleventh century.

25.8 Bowl with engraved decoration, under glaze. Persian. Ninth eentury.

25.9. Bowl with decoration engraved and painted under glaze. Persian. Ninth
century.

25.10. Bowl with decoration engrayed and painted under glaze. Persian.
Ninth eentury. ‘

25.11. Bowl with decoration engraved and painted under glaze. Persian.
Ninth century.

25.12. Bowl with decoration painted in black over glaze. Persian. Ninth
century.

Additions to the library by gift and purchase comprise 90 books
and periodicals and 127 pamphlets. <A list of these accompanies this
report as Appendix A (not printed). Forty-six volumes have been
rebound.

The work of making identification photographs for use in the
card catalogue continues, and in addition, several hundred photo-
graphs and a number of lantern slides have been made to order and
delivered to purchasers. Of the publications issued by the gallery,
there have been sold during the year, 538 copies of gallery books,
422 copies of the Synopsis of History, and 682 copies of the descrip-
tive pamphlet.

During the past year there has been an increasing demand upon
the gallery for translations of Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan in-
scriptions, and for information concerning various objects. One
hundred and five such objects, consisting, for the most part, of
Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, and Korean paintings, Japanese prints,,
and articles of pottery and jade, have been submitted for exam-
ination. :

The usual work in repairing and making exhibition cases, picture
frames, stretchers, and other equipment has been done in the gallery
shop, and the necessary minor repairs to the building, as well as
certain improvements such as the construction of a photographic
dark room in the attic, were made by the employees of the shop.

The Freer Gallery begs to acknowledge its indebtedness to the
Department of Agriculture for its aid in exterminating the boxwood
pest, “the leaf miner,” and to thank the Fish Commission for its
gift of goldfish for the fountain basin.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59
ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day, with the exception of Mon-
days, from 9 until 4.30. The total attendance for the year was 109,862.
The aggregate Sunday attendance was 28,172, making an average
of 541; the week-day attendance amounted to 81,690, with an aver-
age of 313. Of these visitors, 431 came to the study rooms to see
objects not on exhibition or to consult books in the library; 4 to
make copies or photographs, 72 to examine the building and equip-
ment, while 27 brought objects in their possession for examination
and information.

PERSONNEL

Mr. Y. Kinoshita, of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, worked
at the gallery during the winter months on the preservation of
oriental paintings.

Mr. Herbert E. Thompson worked on the preservation of oil
paintings.

FIELD WORK

A detailed account of the activities of the gallery’s expedition in
China is contained in Appendix B (not printed) accompanying this
report, and will be condensed for publication in Explorations and
Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1925.

Respectfully submitted.

J. KE. Lopes, Curator.
Dr. Cuartres D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the re-
searches, office work, ond other activities of the Bureau of Ameri-
‘ran Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved June 7, 1924. The
act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: lor continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including the necessary employees and the purchase of necessary
books and periodicals, $57,160.

The policy of the Bureau of American Ethnology in the past
has been that of a pioneer, but from necessity the field work of the
staff has been both intensive and extensive, mainly reconnaissance.
As a pioneer, the bureau has opened up new lines of research in the
study of the ethnology of the American Indians and has blazed a
trail for others in several fields. While contributing to science tech-
nical monographs on certain Indian tribes, it has at the same
time prepared and circulated, through publication, articles of a pop-
ular character covering the whole subject. The object has been to
furnish reliable data for students wishing accurate knowledge of
the American Indians.

The aboriginal culture of our Indians is rapidly disappearing
and being replaced by the white man’s civilization. Certain tribes
have already lost almost all their native customs, and others will
follow rapidly until little of scientific value remains for ethnologi-
cal field work. The older men among them, who in their prime
knew the native cults and rituals, are passing away, and the younger
generation of Indians who are taking their places are almost en-
tirely ignorant of the significance of the rituals or ceremonials.
Current fables and metaphoric stories, mainly explaining the char-
acteristics of animals, are now often claimed to be mythologic, al-
though many of them have value as tales, not as myths. The In-
dian culture is passing away and soon will be lost. It is the inten-
tion of the Bureau of American Ethnology to record it before its
extinction.

The excavation and preservation of archeologic remains, from
which much valuable scientific material may be obtained, constitute

60
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

a task which is only just begun. The bureau has for many years been -
a pioneer in-this work, and in many areas it has been the only
investigator. The first publication of the Smithsonian Institution
was on an archeological subject, and with the passing years the
bureau has followed this line of work with vigor.

It is a traditional, sound policy of the Institution, as a result of
the relatively small allowance for the field study of the Indians, to
cooperate, rather than to attempt to compete with those who have
a much larger income. This policy has been pursued by the bureau
during the past year.

The chronicles of De Soto’s wonderful trip through our south-
eastern States introduced to the attention of historians a remark-
able aboriginal American culture, one of the most advanced in
North America outside of Mexico. It was, as has generally been
the case, built on agriculture, and the dominant tribal religion of
its civilization was a complex of Sun, Fire, and Great Serpent
cults. From Tampa: Bay to the Mississippi River, De Soto en-
countered numerous tribes differing in language and in minor eth-
nological features, but all belonging to the same culture with a wor-
ship characteristic wherever agriculture served as a source of food.
As time went by and renewed exploration brought Europeans into
more intimate contact with the Indians of the Gulf States, his-
torians and others published many articles on their ethnology, but
as the tribes were moved west of the Mississippi and the oppor-
tunities for the field worker were diminished, the time came for
the ethnologist to yield to the archeologist to make his contribution
to the subject. Here lies a great field for further studies, with
ample work for both the historian and the archeologist.

The two areas in aboriginal America north of Mexico in which
agriculture reached its highest development were the Southwest, or
that part of our domain bordering on Old Mexico, and those States
bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, including the mound builders
from the Ohio River to the Gulf. The investigation of the south-
western or pueblo region is at present attracting many archeologists
amply furnished with funds, but the Southeastern or Gulf States
have been more or less overlooked. The bureau has begun an
archeological reconnaissance, as far as its resources will allow, in
Florida, Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee. Last year special
attention was given to the Indian mounds at Muscle Shoals in
Alabama. The work in Tennessee, southern Florida, and Missis-
sippi, So auspiciously begun by the late Mr. W. E. Myer, has been
continued by Mr. P. E. Cox, State archeologist of Tennessee. Mr.
Collins, assistant curator, division of ethnology, United States Na-
tional Museum, was allotted a small appropriation for preliminary
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

investigations and reconnaissance along the Pearl River in Missis-
sippi, the prehistoric home of the Choctaw Tribe. The results of
this work were very satisfactory.

Work on the Muskhogean culture, or the antiquities of the Gulf
States, promises important results in comparative ways, and will, it
is hoped, shed light on the religion of aboriginal tribes of North
America. We are able to reconstruct, in a way, from historical
sources, the main outlines of the Gulf culture, but the documentary
references to the material culture of the Muskhogean tribes are
incomplete. More information is needed regarding the ritualistic
sacra, idols, ceremonial objects, and symbolism on pottery, before
we can reconstruct the cultus. The material for this study is now
buried in the soil, but intensive archeological work will bring it to
light. In essentials, the culture of the prehistoric people of the
Gulf States is such as we find universal among agricultural people
in America emerging from savagery into barbarism, and the religion
has much in common with that of the pueblos.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

The chief spent several weeks in reconnaissance near Florence,
Ala., making excursions to several mounds in that vicinity, espe-
cially those that will be submerged when the Wilson Dam at Muscle
Shoals is flooded. Mr. Gerard Fowke, who had immediate charge
of the excavations in two of these mounds, obtained a considerable
collection containing unique objects, among which are three rare
copper ornaments, the largest ever found in the valley of the Ten-
nessee. His report will be published later.

The chief at that time visited Montgomery, Ala., where he was
most hospitably received. While there he made an examination of
the Graves collection, one of the most remarkable in the State.

The chief has given advice to the National Park Service of the
Interior Department on the new National Monument near Flagstaff,
Ariz., which is now called by the Hopi name Wupatki. This monu-
ment includes the well-preserved buildings near Black Falls on the
Little Colorado, first described and figured by the writer a quarter
of a century ago, at which time he recommended that they be made
a National Monument, and this has now been done by proclamation
of the President.

The most important collection of archeolgical objects received dur-
ing the past year was contributed by Mr. J. C. Clarke, of Flagstaff,
Ariz., custodian of the Wupatki ruin. It consists of about a hun-
dred specimens of pottery, shell and bone implements, and other arti-
facts from a burial mound at Youngs Canyon excavated by work-
men in the course of construction of a road near the city. These
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

objects were received at a time when material from that region of
the Southwest was particularly desirable. The chief has prepared
an illustrated report on this collection in which he calls attention
to its importance. The collection contains unique specimens and
is accompanied by a good catalogue by Mr. Clarke. One of the most
interesting of these is a black and white pottery ladle, the handle
of which is molded into a cradle containing a clay figure. There is
also a finely incised head-ornament of bone, recalling those worn
by the Bow priesthood at Zufi, and suggesting similar ornaments of
the Hopi idol of the war god. The collection shows evidence of
cremation and urn burial.

The pottery objects are archaic, and the interiors of certain black-
and-white food bowls are decorated with artistic figures similar to
those on polychrome ware from Tokonabi, near March Pass, in
northern Arizona. It is probable from the pottery that the people
who buried their dead at Youngs Canyon were related to a population
antedating pueblos, which was scattered over a great area in Arizona
from the Little Colorado north to the San Juan, and from the west-
ern boundary of the state into New Mexico. This people had no
circular kivas or ceremonial rooms like those at the Mesa Verde, or
the San Juan area, but they were fine potters who decorated their
ware with artistic geometrical designs.

The number of written requests for information on ethnological
subjects the last few years has more than doubled, and the time of
the chief, as well as of the members of the staff, is correspondingly
absorbed.

During the past year Mr. Earl H. Morris, under the direction of
the chief of the bureau, did necessary repair work cn the famous
tower of the Mummy Cave House in the Canyon del Muerto, Ari-
zona, which once contained three rooms. All woodwork on the
first ceiling has been torn out; only the haggled ends of a few sup-
ports remain embedded in the walls. The cleanly peeled poles which
supported the second ceiling are in place, and the third ceiling, or
original roof, is still intact. Itis probably the most beautiful ceiling
remaining in any ruin in the Southwest, its only rivals being the
coverings of one or two rooms in the north side of Pueblo Bonito,
and in Spruce Tree House, Mesa Verde.

This tower has been in a dangerous condition for a long time.
There was originally a retaining wall below it, rising from the very
brink of the ledge, which held in place the fill of loose rock and
refuse upon which the House of the Tower stands. Eventually,
through erosion, all but the eastern end of this wall collapsed, prob-
ably because of the insecure foundation afforded by the abruptly
sloping rock, and much of the material behind it washed over the
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

cliff. Later, the not infrequent winds which sweep over the cave
with unbelievable force, blew out the dust and rock pebbles until the
southwest corner of the tower was undermined more than 3 feet and
the wall eastward weakened almost to the opposite corner.

The cracks in the west wall were wider in November, 1924, than
they were a year previous. A removal of half a dozen shovelfuls
from the unconsolidated mass of earth beneath the front would have
loosened the large block just beyond its western end, which pre-
vented the entire collapse of the masonry. In addition to the periodic
action of the wind, each visitor who passed from the eastern to the
western part of the cave trod his portion of the loose mass below
the wall farther down the slope, and sent clods and pebbles rattling
over the cliff. Before many years this block would have been
loosened and the tower would have fallen.

During the repair work, buttresses were built beneath and in-
closing the large blocks under the west end of the tower and under
the undermined portion of the tower, continuing back to the limit
of undermining, and extending well forward of the masonry. At
the junction of the two, wedges were driven to knit the new work
firmly to the old. From the east end of the buttress a retaining wall
was built to connect with the remnant of the old one on the brink
of the ledge, and the space behind it was filled, thus providing a
platform instead of the former steep slope at the southeast corner
of the tower. This repair work will temporarily preserve one of the
finest gems of aboriginal architecture in the entire Southwest, but
it should be supplemented by the addition of “ turnbuckles” an-
chored to the cliff and by the rebuilding of the southeast corner,
which should be bonded to the east and front wall to preserve it for
centuries to come.

During the fiscal year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, dis-
covered further material bearing on the social and religious life
of the Creek Indians, and this was extracted and incorporated into
his papers on those subjects which are now being prepared for pub-
lication by the editor. A study also was made of the various smaller
culture centers within the region covered by our present Gulf
States, and a paper on the “Culture of the Southeast ” was pre-
pared as a result of this work. A short paper on the “ Ethnology
of the Chickasaw ” was begun and carried nearly to completion,
end the work of carding references to all words from the publica-
tions of early Florida missionaries in the now extinct Timucua
language has been continued, and all of the words from three of
the five texts and from more than half of the fourth had been ex-
tracted by the end of the year. An abbreviated handbook of the
Indian tribes in the United States and Alaska was prepared to ac-
company a map of the same section.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, prepared for publication a
manuscript entitled ‘A Sauk and Fox Sacred Pack.” He also wrote
the Indian text of one of the great sacred packs of the Thunder gens
of the Fox Indians and worked out the English version thereof.
Doctor Michelson also prepared an Indian text, with English ver-
sion, of the Owl dance which belongs to the Bear gens. He began
translating a Fox text on the sacred pack named “ Sakimage ” which
belongs to the Bear gens of the Fox Indians and which was taken
care of by Pushetonequa, the last chief recognized by the Govern-
ment. He corrected the galley proofs and the first page proofs of
the fortieth annual report of the bureau, which made it possible to
incorporate some additional material appurtenant to the White
Buffalo Dance and Fox mortuary customs and beliefs. Doctor
Michelson employed Horace Powesheik to translate 1,000 pages of
Fox text which contains additional information on the Fox society
known as “Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buffalo.” In
June Doctor Michelson went to Tama, Iowa, to renew his researches
among the Algonquian Tribe of that State. He verified the new
data on the Fox society named above, and some Fox texts on the
Buffalo Head Dance of the Thunder gens, obtaining much additional
information of this dance and other information on the Thunder
gens. A translation of the Fox text on the Sturgeon was obtained
as well as certain information on the Wolf gens.

During the fiscal year Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, was
engaged in the preparation for publication of his material on the
excavation and early history of the Burton Mound Indian village
situated at Santa Barbara, Calif., the principal rancheria of the
Santa Barbara Indians. The Ambassador Hotel, which had stood
on the mound for many years, and had completely barred it to scien-
tific investigation, was destroyed by fire in the spring of 1921. By
joint arrangement with the Museum of the American Indian, a
thorough excavation of this mound was made, and a large and attrac-
tive collection of artifacts was obtained, as well as a mass of archeo-
logical and historical material. Mr. Harrington completed the elab-
oration of this material and it was submitted for publication, includ-
ing maps and numerous photographs.

The old Indian name for the Burton Mound village was Syujtun.
Mr. Harrington’s work revealed the interesting fact, not previously
pointed out, that this rancheria is mentioned four times in the
“ Relacion ” of Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, who discovered Alta Cali-
fornia in 1542. Father Crespi, who kept the diary of the Portola
expedition, writing in 1769, describes this village in some detail.
Other early accounts tell that Yanonalit, its chief, had under him
12 other villages besides the Burton Mound. After the Indian popu-
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

lation was removed to the near-by Santa Barbara Mission, which
was accomplished gradually after the establishment of the mission
in 1782, the Franciscans erected a massive adobe warehouse on the
mound, the old Indian canoe landing place in front of the mound
having become “el puerto de Santa Barbara,” the port of Santa
Barbara. Ships visiting Santa Barbara used to get water from the
large spring on the southern slope of the mound. Joseph Chapman,
a young Englishman who had been captured when pirates made a
raid on the California coast, purchased the mound from the Fran-
ciscans in the early twenties and started a flour mill there. In the
forties the mound became the property of George Nidiver, famous
otter hunter and friend of General Fremont. In the sixties the
mound property was owned by Lewis T. Burton, whose name it still
bears. The hotel was erected on the site in 1901. The shape and
extent of the Indian village and graveyards was laboriously worked
out by excavation and successive cultures traced, for the site proved
to be very ancient.

In the cemetery plots, most of the bodies were buried in hunched-
up positions with the head to the north, that is, in the direction of the
mountain range. Many of the graves had been lined with whale-
bone slabs, some fine specimens of which were obtained. A great
variety of belongings, large and small, had been stowed away with
the bodies, and traces of matting, basketry, and wooden utensils in-
dicated that the areheologist had been deprived of the richest treas-
ures through decomposition in the ground. One complete wooden
awl for basketry, such as is described by the early fathers, was re-
covered. Several of the graves contained caches of large and beau-
tifully finished steatite bowls; these were manufactured at the stea-
tite quarries on Santa Catalina Island and were brought up the
channel for barter in Indian canoes. Screening the earth brought a
surprising variety of shell and glass beads. The shell beads have
been sorted and classified, and the kind of native shell used for each
variety has been determined.

In 1924 the Burton Mound property was sold and subdivided.
Extensive grading of the property for new streets and trenching for
pipe lines of various kinds was carefully watched and reported on by
Prof. D. B. Rogers, who has cooperated with Mr. Harrington in this
work, and yielded new information about the stratification of the
mound and a good sized additional collection of artifacts. A new
hotel with large cellar excavations is about to be built on the crest of
the mound and observation of these operations will doubtless add
still further data to that already presented in the report.

On completing the Burton Mound paper, Mr. Harrington prepared
a report on the archeology of the Santa Barbara region, dealing with
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

the sites adjacent to the Burton Mound along both historical and
archeological lines. ‘This is a virgin field of research and has al-
ready yielded important contributions to our knowledge of the cul-
ture sequences of the ancient California Indians of this region, which
had the most specialized and highly developed culture of the State.

This work illumines the fact that the early population of the chan-
nel was dense and that there were numerous wars and tribal shift-
ings. The section of the coast from which the islands were popu-
lated and the comparative ages of rancheria sites are also apparent
from this work.

In October, 1924, Mr. R. O. Marsh brought to Washington a
party of eight Tulé Indians from Panama, who remained in the
city until January, 1925. This afforded opportunity for studying
the language, which is a peculiarly interesting one. Possessing only
18 letters and employing them both short and long, it sounds to
the ear more like Finnish than like the average American Indian
language. The language may be described as melodious, simple
and flexible in structure, yet very rich and extensive in vocabulary.
It is spoken, with slight dialectic differences only, by a very large
body of Indians, who formerly held a strip of Caribbean coast more
than 240 miles long between the Canal Zone and the south of the
Rio Atrato, together with the numerous fertile keys off the coast.
Lists were obtained of sociological terms, names of places, plants and
animals, and designations of material culture objects. Songs and
speech were recorded on the dictaphone.

The Indians have been called Tulés, Cunas, Comogres, and San
Blasenos. Of these names the first is preferable because it is the
native name of the tribe. The word Tulé means merely “ Indian,”
it being understood that it refers to Indians of that peculiar kind
and language. It is related to the word tula, meaning 20, that is, all
fingers and toes, an entire Indian.

The collection of Tulé ethnological objects donated by Mr. Marsh
to the National Museum was examined with the Indian informants
and the native names of the objects were recorded, together with
information about their use.

The best informant in the party was Chief Igwa, who is “ captain ”
over some 10 keys, and is one of the leading men in the councils of
the tribe. He has traveled much about the Tulé country and knows
hundreds of places by name, being a good ethnogeographical in-
formant. The chief prepared a large map showing these places.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, left Washington in May, 1925,
for Brantford, Canada, to resume his researches among the Six
(originally Five) Nations, or Tribes, of the Iroquois, the Mohawk,
the Seneca, the Onondaga, the Oneida, the Cayuga, and the ‘Tus-
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

carora, and also among the Munsee of the Delaware Algonquian
group of languages who dwell on the Haldimand grant on the Grand
River in Ontario, Canada.

Here Mr. Hewitt took up the literary interpretation, revision, and
textual criticism of previously recorded voluminous Iroquoian texts
relating to the Constitution of the League or Confederation of the
Iroquois tribes, embodying its laws and ordinances and the rituals
of the council of condolence for the deceased, and the installation of
new members of the Federal and the tribal councils.

With the aid of the two best Mohawk informants available who still
retain some definite knowledge of portions of the ancient institutions
of the league of the Iroquois, Mr. Hewitt made a free English trans-
lation of an important one of these rituals, in addition to the free
rendering of the chant of “* The seven songs of farewell,” and thereby
recovered the symbolic reason for the very peculiar name of the
former. This ritual is called Ka‘trhawé™“hra’to’, in Mohawk, and
Githawe™hii’di’, in Onondaga, meaning, “ Cast or thrown over the
grand forest.” When used ceremonially both these chants are sep-
arated into two portions, and the four portions alternate in their
rendition in such manner that part one of the one chant is followed
by part one of the other; and part two of the first is followed by
part two of the second chant. But when chanted “a veil of skins ”
(shawls or blankets serve in modern times) must be’ hung across the
place of assembly in such wise as to divide the mourning from the
other side of the league.

Ceremonial or legislative action by the tribe or by the league is
taken only through the orderly cooperation of two sisterhoods of
clans for the former, or of two sisterhoods of tribes for the latter.
This dualism in the highest organic units of organization was orvigi-
nally based on definite mythic concepts. In either organization one
sisterhood represented the female principle or the motherhood in
nature, and the other sisterhood the male principle, or the father-
hood in nature. This dualism is thought to be so important that the
janguage of the rituals and of official courtesy employ terms embody-
ing the ethnic and mythic significance of it.

By a searching study of all symbolic terms and phrases occurring
in the chants of these rituals, which impliedly might refer to the
highest dramatized situation revealed by these two divided chants,
the parts of which are recombined as described above, Mr. Hewitt
was able to identify beyond all reasonable question the phrase “ the
veil of skins” with the other phrase “the grand forest.” The
“grand forest” represents ritualistically the totality of the forests
which intervene between the lands of the mourning side of the league
and those of the other side, represented as symbolically intact in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

mind. It must not be overlooked that either the mother side or the
father side may be the “ mourning side”; the designation, of course,
alternates between the two sides, depending on the fact of the loss of
one or more of the members of the Federal council belonging to it at
any given time.

The sisterhood of tribes functioned by the independent action of
its constituent institutional units—every several tribe. In turn
every tribe functioned through the organic units of its own internal
organization—each several clan, to execute its prescribed part in the
larger Federal action, which otherwise would not be authentic or
authoritative; so that a clan or an individual in 9a clan, in special
cases involving personal rights, might prevent vital Federal action.
So personal rights were abundantly safeguarded.

Mr. Hewitt purchased a very fine specimen husk mask of the Corn
Mother, with a short explanatory text.

Mr. Hewitt also made a reconnaissance trip to the Chippewa of
Garden River, Canada, for the purpose of expanding and deepening
his knowledge of certain Chippewa texts, recorded in 1921 by him
from the dictation of Mr. George Gabaoosa, of Garden River, and
also to obtain data in regard to the derivation of two very important
proper names, Chippewa and Nanabozho (appearing in literature
also as Nenabojo, Menaboju, and Wenaboju), and also to inform
himself as to the ethnologic value to be placed on the fast-fading
remains of the ethnic culture of this and cognate tribes in like situa-
tions and antecedents. The myth of Mudjikewis, “The First-Born
(on Earth),” commonly called the story of Nanabozho (i. e.,
Inabé‘oji‘o‘), remarkable for beauty and comprehensiveness, details
the circumstances which gave rise to the name “ Nanabozho.” In
that recital the name appeared as /ndbi‘oj7‘o‘) and means “ Created,
or formed, by the look (of the Great Father spirit) .”

The name Chippewa appears in literature in no less than 97
variant spellings, with a half dozen or more unsatisfactory defini-
tions. But to those who first gave the name Chippewa (in its native,
not Europeanized, form) to these people, picture-writing was ethni-
cally distinctive and characteristic of them as the well-known birch-
bark records of these people amply testify. So the name Chippewa
signifies literally, “' Those who make pictographs,” and thus empha-
sizes one of the distinctive arts of these peoples.

The Seneca in Missouri and Oklahoma were visited for the express
purpose of identifying them tribally, if the available information
made this possible. Since the middle of the eighteenth century
these Seneca have not been closely affiliated with the Seneca Tribe
of New York State and Canada. There has been expressed doubt
that these western Seneca had the right to this name. But after

76041—26——_6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

visiting and interviewing many families of these western Seneca
dwelling about. Seneca, Mo., and Miami and Picher, Okla., Mr.
Hewitt was convinced that they are mainly emigrants from the
parent Seneca Tribe of New York and Canada and from the Cayuga
of these last-named places; naturally, there are also some families of
other Iroquoian Tribes, such as the Wyandot and possibly the
Conestoga. A porcupine clan and a fox clan were reported. The
Jast was a Conestoga clan.

Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, completed his paper on two
versions of the child-naming rite of the Osage Tribe. ‘The first ver-
sion belongs to the In-gthon-ga or Puma gens, and the second to the
Tsi-zhu Wa-shta-ge or Tsi-zhu Peacemaker gens. Each gens has its
own version of the rite and no other gens can use it without per-
mission. This paper contains 201 typewritten pages and 20 illus-
trations. Mr. La Flesche spent a part of the month of May and all
of June, 1925, among the Osages. In the early part of this visit he
and his assistant, Ku-zhi-si-e, a full-blood Osage, undertook the la-
borious task of properly recording the gentile personal names used
by the full-blood members of the tribe and by some of the mixed
bloods. Superintendent J. George Wright, of the Csage Agency,
kindly permitted them to use as a guide in doing this work an annu-
ity pay roll of the third and fourth quarters of the year 1877, which
was found in the files of his office. This roll contains about 1,900
Indian names, most of them misspelled. Besides correcting the
spelling of the names, Mr. La Flesche and his assistant added to the
name of each annuitant the name of his or her gens. Ku-zhi-si-e
was much amused to learn that his boy name, “ I-tse-tha-gthin-zhi,”
was carried on the pay roll as “ Ii-stah-o-gra-she,” and that the
boy name of his friend “ Wa-non-she-zhin-ga”’ was put on the rolls
as “ Me-pah-scah,” instead of “ In-bae-sca,” the correct name.

When the work of revising the names on the annuity roll was
concluded, Ku-zhi-si-e drove over the hills on his farm with Mr.
La Flesche and showed him many wild plants which were useful
to the Indians as medicine or food. Some of these plants were
woven into large mats for house covering, and into rugs to spread
on the floor of the house to sit upon.

Wo-non-she-zthin-ga (the chief of the tribe) also took tramps
among the trees on his farm with Mr. La Flesche, and showed him
a number of trees and explained to him their uses, and gave to
him their native names, which he recorded. This man pointed out
a tree which he called “Zhon-sa-gi,” hard wood. The saplings
of this tree he said were used for the frames of the houses. When
green the wood was easily cut with a knife or ax, but when sea-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4 tare

soned it was very hard to cut. The chief cut a branch from a
small tree and carried it with him when he and Mr. La Flesche
returned to the house. The chief whittled off some of the bark
from the branch and dipped the shavings in a glass of water and
the water quickly became blue like indigo. Mr. Paul C. Standley
identified this tree as the blue ash, or Fraxinus quadrangulata.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The following manuscripts of Indian music have been purchased
during the fiscal year from Miss Frances Densmore: “ War, wed-
ding, and social songs of the Makah Indians,” “Songs connected
with Makah feasts and dances,” “ Music and customs of the Tulé
Indians of Panama,” “Songs and instrumental music of the Tulé
Indians of Panama,” “Songs for children and material culture
of the Makah Indians,” and 17 mathematical groups analyses of
167 Papago songs, according to the method of such analyses in
previous work. This material (apart from the group analyses)
comprises 150 pages of text, numerous photographic illustrations,
and the transcriptions of 69 songs, together with the original phono-
graph records and descriptive and tabulated analyses of individual
songs. The last named are the analyses from which the mathe-
matical analyses are made, these showing the peculiarities of the
songs of an entire tribe with results expressed in percentages.
These in turn form the basis for comparative tables, which show
the characteristics of the music of different tribes. Such tables
of comparison in “ Mandan and Hidatsa Music” comprise 820 songs
collected among six tribes, and material awaiting publication will
add more than 500 songs to this number, including songs of widely
separated tribes. It seems possible that these tables may show
a connection between the physical environment of the Indians and
the form assumed by their songs, as interesting contrasts appear
in the songs of different tribes.

The final paper on the Makah Indians included a description of the
uses of 26 plants in food, medicine, and dye. Specimens of the
plants had been obtained on the reservation, and their botanical
identification was made by Mr. Paul C. Standley, of the United
States National Museum. The Makah were head hunters and a
detailed account of their war customs was presented. The caste
system prevailed in former days and families of the upper class had
wealth and leisure. The wedding customs were marked by festivity
and by physical contests, the songs of which were submitted.

The presence in Washington of a group of Tulé Indians from the
Province of Colon, Panama, made possible a study of forms of primi-
we . ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tive music which, it is believed, have not hitherto been described.
The Tulé Indians are unique in that they do not pound on a drum,
a pole, or any other object. Their favorite musical instrument is
the “ pan pipe ” of reeds. ‘Two men usually play these pipes, sound-
ing alternate tones. The music of these pan pipes was phonograph-
ically recorded and transcribed as nearly as is possible in musical
notation. An instrument which, as far as known, has not been pre-
viously observed, is a reed flute having two finger holes but no
“whistle opening.” ‘The upper end of the reed is held inside the
mouth, possibly touching the roof of the mouth, and for this reason
the instrument is designated as a “mouth flute.” A gourd rattle,
conch shell horn, and bone whistle complete the musical instruments
of these Indians.

The words of the songs narrate a series of events, such as the
preparation for a wedding and a description of the festivity, or the
illness and death of a man, followed by “talking to his spirit.”
Chief Igwa Nigidibippi, who recorded the songs, was a trained
singer.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publications
is presented in the following summary.

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Thirty-eighth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: An Introductory Study
of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana Indians, by Walter HE. Roth.
745 pp., 1838 pls., 341 figs.

Thirty-ninth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: The Osage Tribe; The
Rite of Vigil, by Francis La Flesche. 636 pp., 17 pls., 4 figs. (Received July
13,1925.)

Bulletin 78. Handbook of the Indians of California, by A. L. Kroeber. x, 995
pp., 838 pls., 78 figs. (Received July 17, 1925.)

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Mythical Origin of the
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox
Indian Woman; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs; Notes on the
Fox Society Known as “Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buffalo”;
The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as “The Singing Around
Rite” (Michelson).

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in Brit-
ish Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts,
and Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious Beliefs
and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians; The Culture of the Southeast
(Swanton).
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con-
tinued under the immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted
by Miss Emma Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

Reportavolumesrand Separavess 2-2 a2 UL aS Se ee 3, 426
USDA AN TES Sp raV a! AS ETO A al eT a I eee ee Gene gees ee eee 3, 458
Contributions to North American sees D4 cake PRMISAS Set 8 NPL: A PERUSE Ae BA ee) 38
ABSIT Re ©) Gh UTC 10 GT Ge he ey NS Sp ee a eae eS ee ee 5
MDESGOT TE GO se ULE ET OTS eee ee Ne 427

7, 354

As compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 1924, there was a
decrease of 6,609 publications distributed. ‘This was undoubtedly
due not to a decrease in applications, but to the fact that only one
publication was distributed during the year just ended, whereas four
publications were issued in the preceding fiscal year and distributed
to the mailing list.

ILLUSTRATIONS
Mr. Delancey Gill, illustrator, with the assistance of Mr. Albert

Sweeney, continued the preparation of the illustrations of the bureau.
A summary of the work follows:

Tllustrations mounted, retouched, and made ready for engraving________ 927
Drawane of Obj ects, .mapsw vete:, | preparedis | 2 pe oe ky a 38
Portraits .of, visiting; Indians; (2. Kiowa, 8.0ulé ) ct. oo ee 27
Negative films from, field: exposures s4) eke tone 8 ye oe i 54
Ehotostat, prints) from books and; manuscripts242 442222 ee ee ee 178
Negatives of ethnologie and archeologic subjects__________________ 273
Photographic prints for distribution and office use________________ | 1, 649

On account of the large amount of illustrative work, reclassifica-
tion of the large collection of negatives has not progressed as rapidly
as last year. About 7,000 negatives have so far been catalogued.

LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the immediate care of
Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell.
During the year 480 books were accessioned. Of these 100 were
acquired by purchase, 280 by gift and exchange, and 100 by binding
of periodicals. The periodicals currently received number about
975, of which 40 are by subscription, the remainder through ex-
change. The library has also received 187 pamphlets. The aggre-
gate number of volumes in the library at the close of the year was
26,101; of pamphlets, 15,512; also several thousand unbound peri-
odicals. The Library of Congress, officers of the executive depart-
ments, and out-of-town students have made use of the library through
frequent loans during the year.
74

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

COLLECTIONS

The following collections, purchased or acquired by members of
the bureau or by those detailed in connection with its researches,
have been transferred to the United States National Museum:

83522.

84260.

84444,

£5018.

85019.

85319.

85343.

85344.

85780.

85781.

85824.

85856.

87297.

33949.

Small collection of ethnologia purchased by the bureau from Miss
Emily 8S. Cook.

Collection of archeological material secured by Mr. D. L. Reichard for
the bureau, from Berryville, Va.

Small stone celt, and a lot of pottery bowl ornaments from Porto Rico,
presented to the bureau by Mrs. Alice de Santiago, Barceloneta, P. R.

Collection of archeological material collected for the bureau by Gerard
Fowke from mounds near Town Creek, Ala.

Archeological material collected for the bureau by Dr. J. Walter
Fewkes, from mounds near St. Petersburg, Fla.

Archeological material collected for the bureau by Gerard Fowke, from
mounds near Town Creek, Ala., on the site of the Wilson Dam, Muscle
Shoals.

Stone bird pipe found near Hydes Ferry, on the Cumberland River,
about 7 miles below Nashville, Tenn.

Five complete skulls and fragmentary remains of about twelve crania col-
lected by Gerard Fowke from Hog Island Mound, near Town Creek, Ala.

Five skulls collected by Earle 0. Roberts, Harrah, Wash.

Collection of skeletal material secured by Gerard Fowke at the Alex-
ander Mound near Courtland, Ala.

Collection of skeletal material which was unearthed 144 miles north
of Boynton, Fla., and sent to the bureau by Mr. E. S. Jackson, of
Palm Beach, Fla. .

Collection of archeological objects secured by Mr. J. O. Sanderson, of
Courtland, Ala., and purchased by the bureau.

Two pipes, one of steatite and the other of marble, collected for the
bureau by Gerard Fowke from the Alexander Mound in Lawrence
County, Ala.

Collection of archeological material secured for the bureau at Youngs
Canyon, about 18% miles east of Flagstaff, Ariz., by Mr. J. C. Clarke,
of Flagstaff.

Human remains from Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Fla., secured by
the chief of the bureau during the winter of 1923-24.

MISCELLANEOUS

Clerical: The correspondence and other clerical work of the office
has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief. Mr.
Anthony W. Wilding, typist, has been engaged in copying manu-
scripts and in various duties connected with the office of the chief.
Miss Julia Atkins, stenographer and typist, resigned October 15,

1924.
1924,
1925.

Mrs. A. H. Kitchen was appointed temporarily December 13,
for the three months, the appointment terminating March 13,
Miss Mae W. Tucker was appointed temporarily May 1, 1925,

as stenographer and typist.
Respectfully submitted. J. Warrer Frewxss, Chief.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1925:

The congressional appropriation allowed for the support of the
exchange service during the year 1925 was $49,550, $6,550 more than
the amount granted for the fiscal year 1924. Of this increase about
half was to cover the extra amount necessary for reclassification of
salaries. The usual appropriation of $200 for printing and binding
was granted by Congress. There was collected by the Institution
on account of repayment from departmental and other  establish-
ments $4,900.22, making the total resources available for carrying
on the Smithsonian system of exchanges for the fiscal year 1925
$54,650.22.

During the year the total number of aes handled was 468,731,
an increase over the number for the preceding year of 8,073. ‘These
packages weighed a total of 506,164 pounds, a loss of 60,943 pounds.
This decrease in weight is due to the smaller size of packages of
publications received for transmission through the service.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
indicated in the following table:

|
Sent Received

Sent Received

| Packages | Weight
|
|
|

Pounds Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad ----------- | 198, 862 | 86, 337 |

Publications received in return for parliamentary documents--_-|_-.----.-- Ce (1 a es a | 12, 851
United States departmental documents sent abroad_----------- | 142,911
Publications received in return for departmental documents-_--|
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_..|
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from |

|

|

abroad for distribution in the United States_.....-..-.-------

432,570 | 36, 161 | 408, 384 | 97, 780

ersiighe LOtal. oe es Pee es ee 468, 731 | 506, 164

The value of the material passing through the International Ex-
change Service can not be estimated by the mere number of packages
handled. Many of the packages each contain a number of valuable
scientific publications. It may be estimated that annually there pass
through the service both to and from foreign countries, considerably
more than a million publications.

Although the United States Government sends abroad more publi-
cations than it receives in exchange, the disparity is not so great

75
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

as appears in the above table, for many foreign publications are
received direct by mail by correspondents in this country.

Latvia, which joined both conventions in 1924, has established a
service of international exchanges under the state library at Riga.

The total number of boxes used in despatching consignments was
4,325. This was a decrease of 139 from the preceding year and is
accounted for by the smaller size of the packages received for trans-
mission abroad, as referred to above. Of the total number of boxes
shipped abroad, 268 were for the foreign depositories of full sets
of United States governmental documents, and the remainder (2,057)
was for distribution to miscellaneous establishments and indi-
viduals. While the Smithsonian Exchange Service, as a rule, trans-
mits its consignments to other countries in boxes, sometimes the pack-
ages that accumulate for a particular country are not of sufficient
bulk to warrant their transmission by freight, and they are mailed
directly to their destinations. In addition, quite a number of pack-
ages are forwarded by mail to remote places which can not be reached
through the existing exchange agencies. During the year the num-
ber of packages sent abroad in this manner was 39,499.

The number of boxes sent to each country is given in the following
table:

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries

Country ae Country no} eee
‘Argentine Repuplic=—-.e.5 eevee See AS Nt VS eee oe ee ee eee 6
(NUIStHR 2 sce abate booed ee Bac ithvenigie | Se ee 2a 8 ee ee 3
De oT se fa cen eet ee 68:|\ Miericos..c2> 2 ie eR Ae 5
BOVIS eee en ee oe eee Or} SIN@QUBERISIIGS ats a ee ae 86
Brazil 28 ce eee ee Oe do Fe 34) New. Soutia iWiales 22. 2252 So ee 29
BrifishOolonteso- 3. . a. 623 eee Ls iNew Zealandet- 2-2 Sexes es ee 22
Bulraria= 3 he 2s 2 1.) Niiceirelprin sos See ee oe oe ees enn 1
Catiagh’: 2222202 22.75. oe ete Q0* | INORWay stone eee e ee ences. eens one 33
Chilo... § Ba ee ee DP | Wael Eo CSL 01s vipa eth yaa ae le Brae cate a 4
Cling"). 32 eee s bees Ses scesese DOW PaPApTay > = \ososs socseaneeee keen cone 2
Cliosen c= <2 Ai bet Ss eesacteee oy) a eae oe es SSeS 19
(Colombia® sc02 322228 --at semen tee SERS ES OR ERY Cte 38
Costa Rica=..oics eect Se 2 eeteee se 19 MPonpaleee = eee cone ne neneweaee cue 19
Cubase ree eee 6) “Queenslane’ 22.5552. ee 16
Cvéchoslovakia. 22... 22.28 2. Se set 80. | Roumanie=~ <o2s25222 SS ee eee 14
Danzigie ssh eae rere eee es Sill Russipt? oii... 2-eetee 22 8 ee See 98
Denmark tes... ea eee Alel- Salvador 22 -<eosseh tees ess eer ee ae 2
Micnador = ese eo 2 iBigm 4 slot Sn nee et eee 3
Mirynt =<. oo. cee atc eee ee = bee 12: |} South Australia =. >= =. - 650 ee eas 20
BSthonine o3 hoe ee ee one aanoncee | psy as te ps, etn cele role anasnse ited APT ies Soe 36
Finland) cio221 ee sie besa s- eseeee 20 hSwaden fo -8ch esrb ea FA ee 70
Wrnritia $9 5-8 a 2 le ee 174 |) Switzerland 2...) #- a» Gh Sees 68
Geen? 2s 882 ahs ee EE ene 250K)" DASHING: <5 - es anna Sane eed aoe ll
Great Britain and Ireland___.---_-.----- 608.2), Turkeys s 7 Jo. . sos 5 Se eek. 5. 8
PG pratt: spe Saud ot Relea aoe 2 hed 12) || Union: of/South Agrica: =< 22.202. s8ace 37
Gtratemialals 44802. 06 24 ae none | ORURUEY @ 0 ae eater neem eone 14
Panu ras ns edo ee pe 2 |! Venezuelgct icles eee ee eh 10
Bran wary er ea ee 90-1) Wilatoria. 2s ets. wi 2 See eee oe 40
Tend 2 205 oF AA oe re Oe aane @2"\| Western AUSITEHa.~ cc osc eee en ll
Ttallynciss cece basties-- ecb eee O8}|) Wugoslavia:s:. 222 sole des. 17
HEV re t28 (1: een ee ek a Pe Peg ee 2
JOPAN 3 Sod eek ee ee 116 SMG] 1: | (eye Cee ae piel by salt eS Toy 2, 325

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

In accordance with the terms of a convention concluded at Brus-
sels March 15, 1886, and under authority granted by Congress in
resolutions approved March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, 58 full sets
of United States official documents and 40 partial sets are now sent
through the exchange service regularly to depositories abroad. ‘This
is a reduction of one full set from last year and an addition of two
partial sets. New Zealand requested that a partial set be sent to
the General Assembly Library instead of a full set. The Stadt-
bibliothek of the Free City of Danzig was added to the list of
those receiving partial sets. The number of full and partial sets
of governmental documents forwarded to foreign depositories there-
fore is 98. The total number provided by law for this purpose
and for the use of the Library of Congress has been increased by
act of Congress approved March 3, 1925, from 100 to 125.

The convention referred to above, which was the first of two con-
ventions concluded at Brussels March 15, 1886, and is referred to
as Convention A, provides for the international exchange of offi-
cial documents and scientific and literary publications. The sec-
ond convention, referred to as Convention B, provides for the
interparliamentary exchange of the official journal as well as of the
parliamentary annals and documents. Convention A was rati-
fied by the United States, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Serbia,
(now Yugoslavia), Spain, and Switzerland. Convention B was rati-
fied by the same countries except Switzerland. Since the ratifica-
tion of the Brussels conventions the following countries have signi-
fied their adherence thereto in the order in which they are listed:

. Uruguay—both conventions, 1889.

. Argentine Republic—convention A, 1889.

. Paraguay—convention A, 1889.

. Czechoslovakia—both conventions, 1919.
Poland—convention A, 1920; convention B, 1921.
Roumania—both conventions, 1923.

. Hungary—hboth conventions, 1923.

Dominican Republic—both conventions, 1923.

. Latvia—both conventions, 1924.
. Free City of Danzig—both conventions, 1924.

SHHNATIRwWNHH

1

It therefore will be seen that 18 countries have thus far joined
the Brussels conventions of 1886. In order to give consideration
to the question of having a larger number of countries adhere to
the exchange conventions, the committee on intellectual cooperation
of the League of Nations called together at Geneva in the summer
of 1924 a committee of experts on the international exchange of
publications, a brief report of which is given elsewhere.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

At the request of the Governments of Finland and the United
Provinces of Agra and Oudh, the depositories of partial sets of
official documents have been changed from the Central. Library
of the State to the Parliamentary Library, and from the Colonial
Secretary’s office to the University of Allahabad, respectively.

The names of the depositories in foreign countries are given in
the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINE Repusiic: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AusrriA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

BaAvEN: Universitiis-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of Baden.)

BAVARIA: Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

BeLciumM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazit: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. ;

Buenos Aires: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de ta Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

Cuina: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai, Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costo Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

Cupa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana. :

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

HNGLAND: British Museum, London.

EsrHonra: Riigiranmatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FRANCE: Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

GLAascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

FREECE: Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens.

Huncary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

InprA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.

IntsH Free Stare: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

IraLy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Jarpan: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MAntroevA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Bibliotheek van de Tweede Kamer der Staten-Generaal, The
Hague.

New SourH Wares: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NorrHern IreLAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PoLAND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affairs Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PortucaL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Preussische staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Qursec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Saxony: Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SweEeDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

SWITZERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Palace of Nations, Quai de
Leman, Geneva.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TurRKEY: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Union oF SoutH Arnica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WourTremMBere: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

YuGosLaviA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.

Bo.tiviaA: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

BraziL: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro,
Nichtheroy.

BREMEN: Senatskommission ftir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.

BritisH CotumBiA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

BRiTISH GUIANA: Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

BuucsRIA: Ministére des Affairs trangéres, Sofia.

Cryton: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.

Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Eeypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Harri: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Hamepoure: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegen-
heiten.

Hesse: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.

Ligeria: Department of State, Monrovia.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Lourexco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Liizeck: President of the Senate.

Mapras, Province or: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Frederickton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NicarRaGua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Nova Scotra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Mxteriores, Panama.

ParaGuay: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de Re-
laciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Prince Epwarp Istanp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RoumMANIA: Academia Romana, Bukharest.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Straits SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.

Vienna: Biigermeister-Amt der Stadt Wien.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The interparliamentary exchange is conducted by the Smith-
sonian Institution in behalf of the United States Government under
the authority granted in a congressional resolution approved March
4, 1909, the object of that resolution being to carry into effect the
provisions of the second convention concluded at Brussels in 1886,
providing for the immediate exchange of the Official Journal, the
United States being one of the signatories to that convention.

The immediate exchange has been entered into during the year
with India and the Free City of Danzig. The names of the estab-
lishments to which the daily issue of the Congressional Record is
mailed are given below:

ARGENTINE ReEPuBLIC: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.
Austria: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Wien I.
BapDEN: Universitiits-Bibiliothek, Heidelberg.
Beiterum: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
BoLivia: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
Brazit: Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
3umnNOS Aires: Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, La
Plata.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

CUBA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de ’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzie: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
HEstuHonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, au Palais Bourbon, Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
Great BriraIn: Library of the Foreign Office, Downing Street, London, 8S. W. 1.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Oficina Internacional Centro-Americana, 8a Calle
Poniente No. 1, Ciudad de Guatemala.
Harrt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honpvuras: Biblioteea del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa,
Huneary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.
Inpra: Legislative Library, Simla.
ITALY:
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Palazzo di Monte Citorio, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Palazzo Madama, Rome.
LatviA: Library of the Saeima, Riga.
LIBERTA: Department of State, Monrovia.
New SoutH Wates: Library of Parliament, Sydney.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellizigton.
Norway: Stortingets Bibliotek, Oslo.
‘Peru: Camara de Diputadoes, Congreso Nacional, Lima.
Poranp: Monsieur le Ministre des Affaires Eitrangéres, Warsaw.
PortuGaAL: Bibliotheca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5, Berlin,
SW. 11.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Department, Brisbane.
RouMANIA: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bukharest.

SPAIN:
Biblioteca del Congreso de los Diputados, Madrid.

Biblioteca del Senado, Madrid.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Unton or Soutu Arrica: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
Uruauay: Biblioteca de la Cimara de Representantes, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Caracas.
WESTERN AUSTRALLA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
YuGostaviaA: Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade. :

There are at present 43 different foreign States or Provinces with
which the immediate exchange of the Official Journal is carried on.
To some of the countries two copies of the Congressional Record are
forwarded—one to the upper and one to the lower house of Parlia-
ment. The total number of records transmitted is 49. The number
of copies of the record set aside by law for this purpose is 100.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

A complete list of the foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is
civen below:

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINE RepuBLIc: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle
Cérdoba 931, Buenos Aires.

AustTRIA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal. j

3ELGIUM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.

Bortvra: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazi.: Servyico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

Britisu CoLtonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

SRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

T;ULGARIA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

Cuina: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bu-
reau of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CHOSEN: Government General, Keijo.

Cotompra: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José. 4

CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécosloyaque des changes Internationaux, Biblio-
théeque de Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Durcn GuraANna: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Hicuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeyrt: Sent by mail.

EstHonta: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

France: Service Francais des changes Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GerMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur St.,
New Oxford St., London, W. C. 2. “

Greece: Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Ifuncary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Musée Nationale,
Budapest, VIII.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

Inpra: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

JraLy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio
Emanuele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque a’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga,

LipertA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LourENCO Marquez, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MADEIRA, via Portugal.

MOZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Aca-
démie Technique, Delft.

New Sournm WaAtes: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NicaraGua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paracuay: Secci6én Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Potanp: Service Polonais des FEchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du
Minist@re des Affaires Ntrangéres, Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Department, Brisbane.

RouMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Meteorologique
Central, Bukharest.

Russta: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

SALvApoR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AuSsTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Srarin: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SuMAtTRA, via Netherlands.

SwepEeN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SWITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syrra: American University of Beirut.

TASMANTA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TrIntmpDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TunIs, via France.

TuRKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

UNION oF Souru Arrica;: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrortA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YuGosLavia: Académie Royale Serbe des Sciences et des Arts, Belgrade.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE OF PUBLI-
CATIONS, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

The committee on intellectual cooperation of the League of Na-
tions called together at Geneva July 17-19, 1924, a committee of
experts on the international exchange of publications, of which
Prof. O. de Halecki, of the University of Warsaw, was made chair-
man. Mr. H. W. Dorsey, chief clerk of the Institution, who has
been closely in touch with the exchange service for many years, was
sent as the Smithsonian representative. The other members of the
committee were Mr. J. Luchaire, Inspector General of Public Edu-
cation of France; Mr. E. Bacha, Director of the Belgian Service of
International Exchanges; Mr. V. Benedetti, Director of the Italian
Service of International Exchanges; and Mr. B. M. Headicar,
Librarian of the London School of Economics and Political Science.

The above committee, without making any change in the Brussels
convention of 1886, recommended an additional protocol, enabling
the states that are not yet parties to the convention to adhere
thereto with reservations. The resolutions of the committee of
experts regarding this matter are as follows:

The states which have not yet adhered to the convention of 1886 and might
consider the obligation carried in Article II as too burdensome, either on
account of the very great number of their official publications or on account of
their financial condition, or on any other ground, may accept the convention
with the reservation that they would agree with each nation as to the number
of publications to be sent. The exchange of those states with states that have
unreservedly adhered to the convention would be governed by the same
principle.

The Belgian Government is asked kindly to make a text of the foregoing
resolution known to the states parties to the convention of March 15, 1886.
These states will at the same time be informed that partial adhesions that
may occur under this resolution would be made known to them by the same
Government as fast as they took place, the said adhesions becoming com-
pulsory only as between the said parties that accepted them and the adhering
states.

All applications for partial adhesion would be made known to the Belgian
Government and notified by that Government to every one of the states parties
to the convention of 1886, including those who shall have been allowed to
give partial adhesion to that treaty, each one of the states being at the same
time requested to advise the said Government within one year after the date
of such notification whether, so far as it is concerned, it has accepted the
partial adhesion. Any state which shall not have notified its acceptance
within that time shall be considered as refusing to accept the adhesion.

These resolutions were brought to the attention of this Govern-
ment by the Belgian Government. The Department of State referred
the matter to the Smithsonian Institution, which replied that it saw
t REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

no objection to the assent of this Government to the principle of
limited adhesions to the exchange convention of 1886. It was pointed
out, however, that as the principle of partial exchange of official
documents has been adopted by the United States Government, the
proposed reservations to the convention would not materially affect
the exchange conditions now existing between the United States and
other countries.

The committee of experts considered not only the possibility of im-
proving the exchange of official documents as referred to above, but
also the best way of encouraging the exchange of scientific and lit-
erary works. The committee’s recommendations are embodied in
the following extract from a draft convention:

ArTIcLE I. Independently of the obligations which might result for each of
them from the previous conventions relative to the exchange of publications,
the high contracting parties undertake to exchange, as fast as they are pub-
lished, at least one copy—

(a) All the current repertories of national bibliography of a general char-
acter.

(b) As far as possible documents of every kind giving information on the
recent acquisitions of their scientific libraries.

Arr. II. Each contracting State agrees to take all measures which it judges
desirable—

(a) In order to make easily accessible to all interested parties the lists
communicated to it according to Article [.

(6) In order to secure favorable consideration of all the proposals of ex-
change which might be addressed to it by all the contracting States with regard
to scientific or literary publications included in the above-mentioned lists.

Arr. III. To facilitate generally the exchange of works which are the most
important or most representative of the various types of national culture, the
high contracting parties shall collect or catalogue the publications received by
gift or otherwise which are available for international exchange. They will
publish from time to time a list of these works.

This list will also give the names of works existing in duplicate in libraries
which may be exchanged.

Art. IV. The high contracting parties undertake to encourage in every way
the multiplication of exchanges of scientific and literary publications, whether
State-subsidized or not, between academies and learned societies, universities,
and scientific institutions, as laid down in Article VII of the Convention of
1886.

Art. V. The high contracting parties undertake to publish annual reports on
the work of their exchange services. These reports shall be transmitted to the
committee on intellectual cooperation, which shall publish extracts therefrom,
together with a general report on the work of the international exchanges
during the period in question.

The text of the above draft convention was brought to the atten-
tion of this Government by the secretary general of the League of
Nations with the request that consideration be given to the feasi-

76041—26——7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

bility of agreeing to it. The State Department referred the matter
to the Institution, which replied in part as follows:

While it is realized that the articles in the proposed new convention would
greatly facilitate the dissemination and interchange of published information
among the various countries, it is also realized that it would be impossible to
earry out their stipulations even partially without the expenditure of a con-
siderable sum of money annually. So far as the Smithsonian Institution is
concerned, it would be impossible to do so without a large increase in the
appropriation made to it for the support of the International Exchange Service.

The Smithsonian Institution is, therefore, not in a position to carry out
even partially the terms proposed in the new convention unless adequate addi-
tional funds were appropriated for the purpose. The Institution has, however,
always done everything in its power to promote this subject since it inaugu-
rated a system of international exchange in 1850, and believes that it might
be well for this country to consider again at a later and more favorable time
the question of adhering to the proposed convention.

The committee of experts also gave consideration to various other
matters looking to the improvement of the international exchange
service at large and the extension of its activities.

Respectfully submitted.

©. G. Ansor,
Assistant Secretary, in charge of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1925.

Mr. N. Hollister, superintendent of the park since 1916, died on
November 3, 1924, and was succeeded by Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
who served until April 1, 1925. On that date Doctor Wetmore was
appointed an assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and
the writer was honored by appointment as superintendent of the
park on May 18, 1925.

The appropriation made by Congress for the regular maintenance
of the park was $148,237. From the printing and binding appro-
priation of the Smithsonian Institution, $300 was allotted to the
National Zoological Park. A special appropriation of $38,250 was
made by Congress for laying a water main and installing two fire
hydrants in the park. This sum proved to be inadequate, and it was
necessary to allot money from the regular maintenance fund of the
park to complete the work.

As regards the collection, the year has not been a satisfactory one.
Many of the specimens in the park representing major types of ani-
mals are very old, and occasional deaths are beginning to thin their
ranks, as has been expected, which has resulted during the past year
in the loss of valuable specimens in several representative groups,
thus greatly diminishing the value of the collection.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts—One hundred and thirty animals were presented to the
park or placed there on indefinite deposit during the year. Notable
among these are the splendid young male chimpanzee and a pair of
turacous placed on deposit by Mr. Victor J. Evans, who maintains
a continual interest in the collection; a series of five valuable mon-
keys presented by Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Grant, of Washington, D. C.;
a Bateleur eagle, an Abyssinian falcon, and two South American
stone plover, by Mr. B. H. Swales; a brocket deer by Mr. P. W. Shu-
feldt, of Belize, British Honduras; a black bear by Mr. Fred N. Bent,
of De Leon Springs, Fla.; and a large monitor lizard by Capt.

87
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Walter K. Burgess, United States Army. A complete list of gifts
for the year from 70 individual donors is as follows:

Mr. E. R. Acher, Washington, D. C., Virginia opossum.

Mr. J. M. Annadale, Washington, D. C., Virginia opossum.

Mr. C. R. Aschemeier, Washington, D. C., chicken turtle, 2 gopher tortoises,
and Florida snapping turtle.

Mr. Vernon Bailey, Biological Survey, Washington, D. C., white-headed beach
mouse and 5 grasshopper mice.

Dr. Barnhart, Washington, D. C., mockingbird.

Mr. O. E. Baynard, Plant City, Fla., Florida barred owl and bald eagle.

Mr. J. T. Benson, Nashua, N. H., Nepalese paroquet.

Mrs. L. A. Bostwick, Washington, D. C., 2 Tovi paroquets.

Mr. M. K. Brady, Washington, D. C., Chinese, Japanese, and American tor-
toises and terrapins.

Capt. Walter K. Burgess, United States Army, monitor lizard.

Mr. Fred N. Burt, De Leon Springs, Fla., black bear.

Miss Helen Carlisle, Washington, D. C., brown capuchin.

Mr. H. C. Chandlee, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

President Coolidge. White House, alligator.

Mrs. 8. E. De Maret, Washington, D. C., canary and red-and-blue-and-yellow
macaw.

Mrs. H. O. Harle, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. E. H. Ehlis, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mr. Will Ellis, Niagara Falls, Ontario, banded rattlesnake.

Mr. V. J. Evans, chimpanzee, 2 turacous, and 2 chukker partridges.

Mr. Charles L. Fagan, Rahway, N. J., Hungarian quail, bobolink, and Gay’s
finch.

Mr. Robert W. Ferguson, Boston, Mass., wild turkey.

Mrs. Robert W. Ferguson, Fernandina, Fla., 3 rattlesnakes.

Mr. BE. K. Fox, Washington, D. C., black-crowned night heron.

Mr. A. G. P. Garrett, jr., Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mrs. IE. H. Gilford, Washington, D. C., Philippine macaque.

Dr. W. S. Gochenour, Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C., 5 mallards.

Mr. E. R. Grant, Washington, D. C., mandrill, Gelada baboon, yellow baboon,
and sphinx baboon.

Mrs. E. R. Grant, Washington, D. C., lesser white-nosed guenon.

Mr. Arthur Harris, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Mr. Thomas Harrison, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Ina L. Hawes, Bureau of Entomology, Washington, D. C., horned toad.

Mr. Joseph Hayden, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Mr. Owen Hockman, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. H. H. Holbrook, Maupin, Oreg., black bear.

Mrs. M. J. Holmes, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

Mr. W. F. Hopkins, Washington, D. C., painted turtle.

Mr. I. 8S. Horne, Kansas City, Mo., 12 prairie dogs.

Mr. Clyde Howard, Huntley, Mont., coyote.

Mr. Francis Jaffee, Washington, D. C., St. Helena waxbill.

Mr. I’. N. Jarvis, Biological Survey, Washington, D. C., American barn owl
and Cooper’s hawk. "

Mr. EH. J. Jutz, Washington, D. C., Margay eat.

Miss Virginia Kalmbach, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mr. Francis 8. Key, Washington, D. C., alligator.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Mr. Jerome Keyes, Alexandria, Va., spreading adder.

Mr. John M. Klein, Washington, D. C., blue-fronted parrot.

Maj. Frank G. Long, United States Army, red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw.

Dr. William M. Mann, African tortoises, Reeves turtle, and blue-headed
parrot.

Mr. Herbert Manning, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Merla G. Matthews, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. J. W. McClure, Sebring, Fla., two sandhill cranes.

Miss Lelia M. Milstead, Newington, Va., Virginia opossum.

Mrs. J. W. Morse, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. D. W. Padden, Fredonia, N. Y., double yellow-head parrot.

Dr. Pardoe, Bound Brook, N. J., pine snake.

Mrs. S. F. Perkins, Washington, D. C., two snapping turtles and two painted
turtles.

Mr. BE. L. Phillips, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. J. H. Pilling, Falls Church, Va., brown capuchin.

Mrs. R. H. Quinn, Washington, D. C., common rabbit.

Mr. E. D. Reid, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C., pilot
black snake.

Mr. H. W. Richards, Takoma Park, Md., two screech owls.

Mr. L. B. Robertson, Clarendon, Va., bonnet monkey.

Mr. J. T. Russell, Washington, D. C., Petz paroquet.

Mr. R. C. Shannon, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C.,
copperhead snake.

Mr. John B. Shepard, Albany, N. Y., muskrat.

Mr. P. W. Shufeldt, Belize, B. H., brocket.

Mr. Carl H. Smith, Washington, D. C., orange-winged paroquet.

Dr. T. E. Snyder, Bureau of Entomology, Washington, D. C., spreading adder.

Mr. B. H. Swales, Washington, D. C., South American stone plover; pigmy
faleon, and Bateleur eagle.

Mr. J. E. Tyler, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mrs. R. C. Wilton, Washington, D. C., blue-and-yellow macaw.

Mr. H. A. Wrenn, Baltimore, Md., albino squirrel.

Births —During the year 74 birds and mammals, hatched or born
at the park, were added to the collection. Among the mammals
were: Manchurian tiger, 3; plains wolf, 3; coyote, 5; European
brown bear, 4; Rocky Mountain sheep, 3; mouflon, 1; tahr, 2; Ameri-
can bison, 3; yak, 1; Indian buffalo, 1; black buck, 1; American elk,
1; red deer, 4; Barasingha deer, 1; Japanese deer, 4; fallow deer, 3;
hippopotamus, 1; grasshopper mouse, 5; rhesus monkey, 1; Javan
macaque, 1; Japanese macaque, 1; fiying phalanger, 1; great red
kangaroo, 3; rufous-bellied wallaby, 1; brush-tailed rock wallaby, 1.

The park was again fortunate in raising two blue geese (Chen
carulescens). Other birds hatched were as follows: Mute swan,
black duck, peafowl, silver gull, and black-crowned night heron.

Purchases, eachanges, and transfers—Only 91 specimens were
purchased during the year. Of these special mention should be made
of a De Brazza’s guenon, a serval, a pair of viscachas, an Arabian
gazelle, a llama, and a male gemsbok. The last named is a magnifi-
cent specimen, the second of its kind to be received at the park.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

A small number of animals were received in exchange for surplus
stock from the collection.

The Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture,
transferred a number of animals taken by field agents of the bureau,
including some large western ravens, western porcupines, two sand-
hill cranes, and two whistling swans.

Deposits——Among the animals received on deposit, which repre-
sented species not exhibited in the collection, were a sarus crane, a
jabiru stork, and a pair of adjutants, deposited for a time by Mr.
Victor J. Evans. Of species placed on deposit which were new to
the park records, a lesser white-nosed guenon is especially notable.

REMOVALS

Forty-one birds and mammals were sent away in exchange to other
zoological gardens during the year. Among these were two elk, an
Indian buffalo, two American bison, six red deer, four Japanese deer,
and a llama.

Nine animals and birds on deposit were returned to their owners.

The average mortality among the animals remains low, despite
numerous losses during the year, chiefly among aged animals, long
on exhibition. These losses, however, have been very serious, as they
include a bull eland that had lived in the park since 1916, a Grant
zebra received in 1909, a Rocky Mountain sheep ram received in 1917,
Barbados sheep, reindeer, a wart hog, two lions, a male Axis deer,
an African leopard that had lived in the park since 1909, and an
African rhinoceros that had been in the collection only 18 months.
Most of these animals were the only representatives of their species
in the collection, and their loss creates gaps that can be filled only
by purchases involving expenditures of far more money than is
available.

Losses among reptiles are so heavy unless adequate arrangements
are made for their care, that it is useless to attempt to maintain a col-
lection in this group, except of a few hardy types, until proper quar-
ters are provided for them.

Post-mortem examinations of animals that died were made, when
desired, by the pathological division of the Bureau of Animal In-
dustry.

The following list shows the results of autopsies, the causes being
arranged in groups:

MAMMALS

Marsupialia: Pneumonia, 3; pleurisy and pericarditis, 1; gastroenteritis, 1;
necrobacillosis, 3; no cause found, 1.

Carnivora: Chronic nephritis, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1; cystic goitre, 1;
no cause found, 1.

Rodentia: Pneumonia, 1; necrosis of jaw, 1; no cause found, 1.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Edentata: Congestion of lungs, 1; no cause found, 1.

Primates: Congestion of lungs, 1; icterus, 1; metritis, 1; cystic tumor, 1;

ankylosis, 1; cage paralysis, 1.

Artiodactyla: Pneumonia, 3; enteritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; acute indiges-

tion, 1; impaction of rumen, 2; old age, 6; accident, 1; difficult parturition, i le
Perissodactyla: Round worm infestation, 1; volvulus of large intestine, 1.
Proboscidea: Malignant tumor, 1.

Insectovora: Gastroenteritis, 1.

Ciconiiformes: Impaction of crop, 1
Anseriformes: Tuberculosis, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; visceral gout, 1; verminous

obstipation, 1; no cause found, 5.
Falconiformes: Accident, 1.
Galliformes: Accident, 1.
Gruiformes: Accident, 1.

BIRDS

accident, 1; no cause found, 2.

Charadriiformes: Enteritis, 1; visceral gout, 1.

Psittaciformes: Tuberculosis, 2; coccidiosis, 1.

Coraciiformes: Tuberculosis, 1; volvulus of large intestine, 1.
Passeriformes: Syncope, 1; tapeworm infestation, 1; no cause found, 1.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION, JUNE 30, 1925

MAMMALS

MARSUPIALIA

Allen’s opossum (Metachirops opossum
FUSCOOTUS CUR), 2 Sea
Virginia opossum (Didelphis virgin-
LTE) ee ee
Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harri-
BUG) Be ph eV os ope Se pees
Australian opossum (Trichosurus vul--
DCOWLG,) = sae a | yee eee Ree es og
Flying phalanger (Petaurus brevi-

Brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogaie
PENACUIGtG) ~~ ee
Rufous-bellied wallaby (Macropus Dil-
LOR CTAB ee Sees aoe
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) ~~---~-
Great gray kangaroo (Macropus gi-
CP UAUT CAR, r= 38 a EC A Se
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) —------
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli)_~--~-

CARNIVORA

Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) _--~-
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) ~~
Yakutat bear (Ursus. dalli)~..------
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi)-------
European bear (Ursus arctos)------
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis)__----
Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) ---~---
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus)-—~
Black bear (Ursus americanus) —~~--~--~-
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus

CiInamoniim) J2232s $= east tha ek

me oc bo

PHHEFOND ERD

to

Glacier bear (Ursus emmonsii) _---~--~-
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus)—~-----~

Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) —~-—---

Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) —~
Dingo” (Cunts Gi1go oe ae
Gray wolf (Canis nubilus)----------
Timber wolf (Canis occidentalis) ~~~
Florida wolf (Canis floridanus)—~---_-

Texas red wolf (Canis rufus) -------~

Coyote" (Gaus tatrans) <= 2 = 2 oS
Hybrid coyote (Canis latrans-rujus) ——
California coyote (Canis ochropus)_—-

Black-backed jackal (Canis  meso-

Kat sfoxt Vulpes’ vetor) == == 3
Gray fox (Urocyon  cinereoargen-

EAE) Tee eee See Se ee
Bush dog (icticyon venaticus)—~~---~
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus) __--~-
Panda’ ‘(Ailurus* fulgens) —~2-——L_-~_-—
Raccoon (Procyon lotor)—~-_-_-----__
Florida raccoon (Procyon letor elucus) —
Gray eoatimundi (Nasua narica)_-—-_-

Kinka joa }¢Poros! jiavusyeh 2 a
Mexican kinkajou (Potos flavus az-

CECUB) =o UR as ee ee
American badger (Tazridea tarus)_—-__

Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga) —

Black-footed ferret (Mustela ni-
OVIPSSy ad Sh OP eS
Palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphro-
LE DUNT Eine mea ee ee ee ee

aren: ee a ae ee Ca

petite bed

-

Ohm art be bo 1

whe

ht
92

Aard-wolf (Proteles cristatus) ~_---_
Spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) ~~~
Striped hyena (Jyana hy@na)_-----
African cheetah (Acinonygz jubatus) —-
Lion | (Peks. ; 1e0) 2a ea See ee
Bengal tiger (Felis tigris)____-----~-
Manchurian tiger (Felis tigris longipi-

Berval (hells servant) not ee
Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalis brasili-

eae) so Fs ae a
Snow leopard (Felis wneia)---_-----~
Mexican puma (Felis azteca) --_~--_
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes) ~~~
Canada lynx (Lynv canadensis)___~-
Northern wild cat (Lyna@ uinta)—-__-~_
Bay lynx (Lyne rufus) __._._.________
Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) —_

PINNIPEDIA

California sea lion (Zalophus califor-
MACHA) = 8 Se ee ee
San Geronimo harbor seal (Phoca-
richardii geronimensis) ~_--__----_~

RODENTIA

Woodchuck (Marmota monav)__--~~
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) ——
Buropean squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris) —
Prevost’s squirrel (Sciurus prevosti)_—
Honduras squirrel (Sciurus boothie) __
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) _—

Bailey’s pocket mouse (Perognathus
UGOUS) re es ee ee a
White-headed beach mouse (Peromys-
cus. leucocephatue).—__—_~~—~=-—-_=-

American beaver (Castor canadensis) —
Grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leuco-

PP ERG) Se ee a ee! gS

PN) ne ee ee
Tree porcupine (Coendou prehensilis) —
Western porcupine (Erethizon epiran-

TM Ro ee ak ee ee
Viseacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus) _
Central American paca (Cuniculus paca

OUD OTUB) 2% oa een
Sooty agouti (Dasyprocta fuliginosa) —
Speckled agouti (Dasyprocta punctata) —
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@)__
Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata) —
Yellow-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta

luctfer cayenne) <2: ~ 4 3 es
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)----____
Capybara (Hydroche@rus hydrocherus) —

LAGOMORPHA

Domestie rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-
8); Cea 8 eee eh ee dS

INSECTIVORA

European hedgehog (Hrinaceus euro-

| moths eS et

i iil aed

Nee ep Bee

_

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

PRIMATES

Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)---_
Red-fronted lemur (Lemur rufifrons)_—
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi)—
Mexican spider monkey (Ateles neg-

torus) =~.
White-throated capuchin (Cebus capu-

00108) i Sa a se ieee
Weeping capuchin (Cebus apella)---_-
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatucllus)__—
Gelada baboon (Vheropithecus  ob-

BOUSUS) eo ae La ees
Chaema (Papio porcarius) ------_-~
Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalus)_—
East African baboon (Papio ibeanus)_
Arabian baboon (Papio hamedryas) —-
Mandrill (Papio sphinz)------------
Drill (Pupio leucoph@us)——~~------~
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus maurus)_—
Barbary ape (Simia sylwanus)—----~
Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata)-~
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca  neme-

etrini) sha ose De a ees
Burmese macaque (Macaca andaman-

Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) —_~--~
Bonnet monkey (Macaca sinica)—-_-~
Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta)
Javan macaque (Macaca mordar)__-~
Black mangabey (Cercocebus aterri-

mus): 2~ see. gf ee eS
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligino-

Hagenbeck’s mangabey (Cercocebus ha-
genteckt) 2282220 ae ee Se
White-collared mangabey (Cercocebus
torquatils 2 seek Lee is
Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitrichus) _—
Vervet guenon (Lasiopyga pygerythra) —
Mona guenon (Lasiopyga mona) -—_—_-~
De Brazza’s guenon (Lasiopyga
OT O22) aera se ee eee
Lesser white-nosed guenon (Lasiopyga
petawiste) re
Chimpanzee (Pan satyrus)----------

ARTIODACTYLA

Wild boar (Sus scrofa)
Collared peceary (Pecari angulatus)__
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphib-
488) 222. oe ea een eee ee ee
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius) —
Guanaco (Lama guanicoe)—-_--~-~--
Llama (Lama glama)_--------~-~--
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)—-~~----
Fallow deer (Dama dama)-_---~~--~-
Axis deer (Agte \anie)}2io2 2b sk 2
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinius) —~----~-
Sambar (Rusa wnicolor)—~-.-------_~
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii) —___
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii)__--_~
Japanese deer (Sika nippon)—-----~~-
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)—--~------~-
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglu)_---~--
Bedford deer (Cervus rwanthopygus) ~~
American elk (Cervus canadensis) —~--~

moe

OO bo bo =m bS DD et et et

= Qe jt

bo

-_

A) oo mt

-_

_
eM ole Ah ww COs we to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus) ~
Brocket (Mazama_sartorii) _-__--_-_-
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons)~-----
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnou) —
Brindled gnu (Connochetes tawrinus)—
Lechwe (Onotragus leche)-----------~
Sable antelope (Hgocerus niger) -__-~
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Arabian gazelle (Gazella arabica) ~~-~-
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —~~~
Gemsbok (Oryx gazelia)--__________
Hast African eland (Taurotragus oryr

Muti sto nti) ass eo tk
Mountain goat (Oreamnos america-

Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus)
Alpine ibex (Capra iber)____________
Sheep: (Ovis ovis) 22 See
Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)—~______

Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis canaden-
£4 aS Se ea! eaten ae eereee Ore

Arizona mountain sheep (Ovis can-
adensis gaillardi)

RATITA

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-

EA ULTES yep te oat ee ee, Sagas og eee
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo-

DTU TUES ee note aia A Le
Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus) —-_
Rhea (Rhea americana)
Sclater’s cassowary

(Casuarius  pli-

Emu (Dromiceius novehollandie) —___
Kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) -_______-___

CICONITFORMES

American white pelican
CHUCRT OV RY NCILOS ) te ee LI
European white pelican (Pelecanus
ORGEROTETIS) SEU OVE ela. Le
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ___

(Pelecanus

Australian pelican (Pelecanus con-
SDICHHOTa) oe ee Bae
Brown pelican (Pelecanus  occiden-
talia) =~ Rear se eas OL SEA 1 Oe ET Sw. e294)

California brown pelican (Pelecanus
COITOTNICUS) =e On UN ut ERE a
Florida cormorant
aurttus) floridanus) _-2==._ = = 2
Great white heron (Ardea _ occiden-

Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) —__
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath) -~_____
American egret (Casmerodius egretta) —
Black-crowned night heron (Nyctico-

raz nycticoras nevius)—__._—~--__ ~~
White stork (Ciconia ciconia) _----~~
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) _-----__
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus crumeni-

Indian jabiru (Xenorhynchus asiaticus )

1 | Mouflon (Ovis musimon)—-~--------~- 4

1 Greenland musk-ox (Ovibos moschatus

2 Wirt) wee aa a Syd eat Pe

dil) ZebwiCBos indicus) 2. ee es 1

1 | Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)—~~~-~---- 5

1 | American bison (Bison bison) —~------ Sy

rf Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)____~ 3

: PERISSODACTYLA

2 | Malay tapir (J'apirus indicus) ~-_-__ 1

1 | Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris)__ 1
Baird’s tapir (Vapirella bairdii)_—___ 1

1 Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi) —---__~ 1
Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus Grevyi-

5 EQUALS) Se ee 1

8 | Zebra-ass hybrid (Hquus grevyi-asi-

2 TLR) ee See ee Sees eee eee 1

; PROBOSCIDEA
Abyssinian elephant (Lowxodonta afri-

7 COngeocyotigyise 23 Br pe 1
Sumatran elephant (Hlephas sumatra-

1 AEDS) ae RT Ns eS 1 SEALE 1

BIRDS
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) _____ 4
Straw-necked ibis (Oarphibis  spini-

COUN) )\ a es psereranets set 2 LE ee

5 | Sacred ibis (Threskiornis ethiopicus)_ 2
Black-headed ibis (UVhreskiornis me-

2 UGIMO CED TOTES!) A ON ee ee ae 3

1 | Australian ibis (Threskiornis  stricti-

1 PERMITS} LR TORRES NS 5) 4
White ibis (Guwara alba)__-__-______ 10

1 Scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) ___-______ 4

2 European flamingo (Phaenicopterus

1 FOR CUES) ne Rm Re AS RV ee Wace VME 4

ANSERIFORMES

7 | Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ~~ -__ 9
Black duck (Anas rubripes) _____--__ 8

2 | Australian black duck (Anas super-

2 CUG8a) a ee ee ee bi 1
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus)___ - 1

2 | Faleated duck (Hunetta faleata)_____ 1
European widgeon (Mareca  pene-

9 UDI) Vis a tang eet ee mae Saba Ss ee ee 3
Baldpate (Mareca americana) ~~ ____ 8

5 Green-winged teal (Nettion  caro-

lintense) Sea a ee ge Se li

3 | European teal (Nettion crecca)—-____~
Baikal teal (Nettion formosum)——____~ 6

2 | Blue-winged teal (Querquedula_ dis-

fe CONS!) 2s ee ee eS 1

1 | Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) — 6

2 | Shoveller (Spatula clypeata) ~---_---~~- 4
Pintall, (Dafila. acuta) => 222 ™ 16

32 | Bahaman  pintail (Poecilonetta  ba-

1 TEGQUVC TAB TR fs eee 1
1 | Wood duck (Aix sponsa)——--------+-= 10
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galeri-

2 CUIGIO) Ho sata ee te ee 12
1 ! Canvasback (Marila valisineria) ~----- 9
94

European pochard (Marila ferina)____
Redhead (Marila americana) ~~~ ____
Ring-necked duck (marila collaris) ——_
Tufted duck (Marila fuligula)__-____-
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis) ___~-
Greater scaup duck (Marila marila)__
Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pe-

PO880G) 2s ee ee ee

Egyptian goose (Chenaloper «agypti-
a6ue) 222-0225345. ect St oats
Upland goose (Chloephaga leucop-
EOE): Secs es er es ent
Hawaiian goose (Nesochen  sand-
ME COUSIG ice Ba nF ie al gt
Snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) —-----
Greater snow goose (Chen hyper-
Doreus? Wives) ie 2 ee ee
Blue goose (Chen ce@rulescens) ~-----_
White-fronted goose (Anser  albi-

frons)).2aes524 32--eeukede lbs
American white-fronted goose (Anser
albifrons. gambels) ~~~ 2-- 2-2
Bean goose (Anser fabalis) _--_-_--__-_
Pink-footed goose (Anser brachyrhyn-
Chua) 2 nea ee ee eee es
Bar-headed goose (Hulabia indica) --__
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) —-~
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis
hutehing) 222 2.5 ee ee eet
White-cheeked goose (Branta canaden-
83 occidentalis) {45s 222322 eS ee
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis
MUA) Ss es se
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucoyastra) _
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) ___~
Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus gam-
OPUBT ET So oe ee
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata)__-_~
Pied goose (Anseranas semipalmata) _
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna
qubwnuralis)\ 2a. Se a eee
Hyton’s tree duck (Dendrocygna ey-

Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) ---------
Trumpeter swan (Olor buccinaior) —__
Black swan (Chenopsis atrata)____~~

FALCONIFORMES

California condor (@ymnogyps califor-

mianiwe)) 2 tees eel te
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)—--~--~
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu)_—____
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) __-
Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpen-

101108) case nace eee cece Sete ease
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)___-_-_
African black vulture (Torgos trach-

thHotue). ao.
Cinereous vulture (Agypius mona-

CRUG) mnweeee eran tees] JARS
Caracara (polyborus cheriway)—----_-
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audaa)—
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos)____
White-bellied sea eagle (Cuneuma leu-

Cogaster,) Se se eee
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) —

Ol

bo ee

toe to 08

a

ctb & bo

»

10

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-
cephalus alascants)____-_______-__ +
Bateleur eagle (Helotarsus ecauda-
TUB) EAR Bh eb Yuh ab Wise Ie Se

ree) See fee aie Pa
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) ____
Pigmy falcon (Poliohierar semitor-
qudatus)( fais. Seek eset
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius)__-~

GALLIFORMES

Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitw)__~
Penelope (Penelope boliviana)__-_-__
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-
vestria).._t.e. seu ee eee
Vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium vul
turinum ) Saas See ee
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) _--_--------
Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron bical-
Cardtum) 222 Se ee eae
Silver pheasant (Genneus nyctheme-
TUS) 2222232022552 4 See
Lady Amberst’s pheasant (Chrysolo-
phus:- amheretia), 2-222) eee
ting-necked pheasant (Phasianus tor-
CU04US) a0 Oe 2 oe oe
European quail (Coturniz coturniz) __
Hungarian quail (Perdiz perdiz)_-__-
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyz gambelii)—
Valley quail (Lophortyr californica
oallicola) SS eee
Chukar partridge (Caccabis chukar) ~~
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) —-_
Massena quail (Cyrtonyz montezum@) —

GRUIFORMES

East Indian gallinule (Porphyrio cal

UUs 22 eee ee
Pukeko (Porphyrio stanleyi) ---------
LBlack-tailed moor-hen (MWicrotribonyr

ventralis) 268 22s ee See
American coot (Fulica americana) __—
South Island weka rail (Ocydromus

GUSTTOLIS) oe eet ee a ee
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus bra-

Chypterus))—— = ee ae ee
Sandhill crane (Grus mexicana) _---~
Little brown crane (Grus canadensis) —
Sarus crane (Grus collavis) ----------
White-necked crane (Grus leucauchen) —
Indian white crane (Grus leucogera-

N08) ee ee Ba ee te
Lilford’s crane (Grus lilfordi)-------
Australian crane (Grus rubicunda) —-~
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) —
Kagu (Rhynocheios jubatus) --------

CHARADRIIFORMES

Ruff (Philomachus pugnar)--~-_------
Lapwing (Vanellus vanellus) ~------=
Yellow-wattled lapwing (Lobivancllus
‘TCTs ) eee ee ee
South American stone plover (dic-
nemus bistriatus vocifer)----------

hbo

me bo

co

mR Rm OO bh
KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Pacific gull (Gabianus pacificus)_-__
Great black-backed gull (Larus ma-

rinus)
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)—_~--
Silver gull (Larus novehollandie) —--_
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)______
Crowned pigeon (Gowra coronata) ____
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura vic-

toria)
Australian crested pigeon (Ocyphaps

LODILOUCS) ats a an
Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps chalcop-

ETE ae ae Ny Rl a
Marquesan dove (Gallicolumba rube-
BX OLEL (AS pas See Soe ee ee ee
Bleeding-heart dove (Gallicolumba
ACP OPEC) oer es en ee ste ee eae

Wood pigeon (Colwmba palumbus)
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
White-fronted dove (Leptotila fulvi-
Dents” OT achyptera)——-— ~ = 2s
Ruddy quail-dove (Ovreopeleia mon-
tana)
Necklaced dove (Spilopelia tigrina) ~~~
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) ________
Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia hume-
ralis)
Inca dove (Scardafella inca) ____--__
Cuban ground dove (Chemepelia pas-
serina aflavida)

Green-winged dove (Chalcophaps in-
PAN OT IY f goose tps bag eS ae RAS es Oa Ae Se at clay
Ringed turtledove (Streplopelia  ri-
YOY GD) yin ae ata incl Sa iy sen me Ee

Fruit pigeon (Lamprotreron superba) —

PSITTACIFORMES

Kea ‘(Nestor notabilis) —- = eas
Musk lorikeet (Glossopsitta concinna) —
Cockateel (Calopsitta novahollandia) —

Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe _ roseica-
FEMA AL | UN iy WER Sis 2 Cont Wess eee aeU Se AEE OS een
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoe gym-
NETTIE GS Fig eet ee a es

Leadkeater’s cockatoo (Kakutoe lead-
(LETTE fo) | ee a ae
Philippine cockatoo (Kakatoe hama-
TUTODY GIG) 2 SOB MIB Bev kd eee
White cockatoo (Kakatoe allba)____-_
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe gal-

Great red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe

MOTULECENSIS) 2 ee $e
Cassin’s macaw (Ara auricollis) _-__--
Mexican green macaw (Ara mevicana)—
Severe macaw (Ara severa)___--____
Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara arara-

CE pp \ NS SE es as See |
Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara
MACHO Sy) fF Sas
Hahn’s macaw (Diopsittaca hahni)__~
White-eyed paroquet (Aratinga leu-
CODNENGIMUS)— 3 a SE
Petz’s paroquet (Hupsittula canicu-
larig)i Abwxsbbus AS ely obi

Golden-crowned paroquet (HLupsittula
aurea)

Weddell’'s paroquet (Hupsittula wed-
LOMA) So anya gs td a
Blue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula pas-
IOV MIU)) terre ote apt kg ye
Golden paroquet (Brotogeris chrysos-
Af {2A Wee ate! 8 Se UES ARR SMe Perea
Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis)_
Orange-winged paroquet (Brotogeris
chiriri)
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auwro-
palliata)
Mealy parrot (Amazona farinosa) —~--~
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona ama-
ZONACG) i ee ee ee ee
Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona estiva) —
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona viridi-
genalis)
Double yellow-headed parrot (Amuzona
ORV F AT ne ae ee oe eS fh
Yellow-headed parrot (Amdazona ochro-
CORR GIG) 2 ae See ag oe
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva)—--~
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona
albifrons nana)
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazgona ven-
ER COVES eae 2 ne ag he
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Maximilian’s parrot (Pionus maximi-
liani)
Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscus) —~--_-___
Blue-headed parrot (Pionus menstruus)
Amazonian caique (Pionites sxantho-
meria)
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis vasa)_
Red-faced love bird (Agapornis pul-
VOGT) eee Ste hee LE ee
Pennant’s paroquet (Platycercus ele-
gans)
Rosella paroquet (Platycercus eximius)
Black-tailed paroquet (Polytelis mela-
WEULT Le Se ea ee
King paroquet (Aprosmictus cyano-
MUI GUUS Yaa ats ee he ees
Crimson-winged paroquet (Aprosmictus
erythropterus)

Ring-necked paroquet (Conurus  tor-
GUase ae es eS
Nepalese paroquet (Conurus mnepa-
L6NSIS) ete = eee See See.

Philippine green parrot (Tanygnathus
tuctonensis) jase = Heo Ba eet
Grass paroquet (Melopsittacus undu-

CUCULIFORMES
Turaco, immature (Turacus sp.) _~----
CORACITFORMES

Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) __---~-
Yellow-billed hornbill (Lophoceros leu-

comelas)
Morepork

lundia)
Barred owl (Strix varia) —~—-----_--_
Florida barred owl (Striz# varia allent) ~
Snowy owl (Nyctea nyctea) ---_____--

owl (Spiloglaur novasee-

95

iv)

14

1 bo

bo
96

Screech owl (Otus asio)------------~-
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianis) -
Earle owl (Bubo budo) = a= =
American barn owl (Tyto perlata pra-

tincola)

PASSERIFORMES

Cock-of-the-rock (Rupicola rupicola) —__
Silver-eared hill-tit (Mesia argentauris)
Red-billed hill-tit (Liothrix luteus) —-~
Black-gorgeted laughing-thrush (G@arru-

law pectoralsta).2 222288 Legs
White-eared bulbul (Otocompsa  leu-

COS) ions wen ee eases ent
Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocosa)_—
European blackbird (Turdus merula)_—
Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos)—-~~-
Piping crow-sbrike (@Gymnorhina ti-

Bicéiht) 2a ee 2 Se ese hoes eet2erS
European raven (Corvus corar)—--___~
American raven (QOorvus coragx sinu-

7c) <p) eee RS st REI LS Ft cae Date 6
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides) __
American crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-

OROD ee OS eS ee
Yucatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) __
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) _----_--
Green jay (Xanthoura luruosa)_--~--

Yellow-headed marsh bird (Agelaius
Acterecepnawuea) 2. ee
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea
CRETE) = 2 a oe oa

Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) _~____-_--
Shining starling (Lamprocorazx metal-

[CUTE py bg fie are es) BS SE ee ee
Laysan finch (Telespyza cantans) —~--
Blue honey creeper (OCyanerpes cy-

ONCUS)) ene a eee ees
Blue-winged tanager (Tandgru cydnop-
Blue tanager (Thraupis cana)_ ~---_~
Giant whydah (Diatropura progne) —-_-
Paradise whydah (Steganura paradisea)

Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) —
Water dragon (Physignathus lesueurii)
Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum)—
Glass snake (Ophisaurus ventralis) __~
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) —
Gould’s monitor’ (Varanus gouldii) —--~
Philippine monitor (Varanus salvator)
Blue-tongued lizard (Tiliqua — scin-

COMICR hoe ee ee ee
Rock python (Python molurus) —~-----

Regal python (Python reticulatus) ——
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) —~------
Boa constrictor (Constrictor  con-

strictor) =~... 2 ee

Black snake (Coluber constrictor) —---
Blue racer (Coluber constrictor flavi-

CL a) ee ee a eee
Coachwhip snake (Coluber flagellum) —
Chicken snake (2laphe quadrivittata) —
Corn snake (Hlaphe guttata) _~-------
Pilot blacksnake (Hlaphe obsoleta) —--

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

4 | Shaft-tailed whydah (Tetrenura regia)
7 | Napoleon weaver (Pyromelana afra)—~
1 | Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea) —~—-
Bobolink (Dolichonyzx oryzivorus)__-~
5 | Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-
CR aE eg ee
St. Helena waxbill (¥strilda astrilda) —
1 | Rosy-rumped waxbill (Estrilda rhodo-
1 DURE ie ee ae
11 | Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata) ——-~
White-headed nun (Munia maja)_—---
2 | Black-headed nun (Munia atricapilla) —
Chestnut-breasted finch (Munia casta-
3 WeltHOVday Soe eee
2 | Java finch (Munia oryzivora)——-__-~-
1 | Masked grassfinch (Poéphila perso-
1 UE, eS re oe re
Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
2 COURGKE) ares ee ae eee
1 | Red-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
MATDOSAS ) — oo ee es
8 | Diamond finch (Steganopleura guttata)
1 | Zebra finch (Twniopygia castanotis) ~~
Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata) ~~~
2 | Red-headed finch (Amadina_ erythro-
1 CODRGIG) Se ae ee ee
2 | Hooded oriole (Icterus cucullatus) ~---
3 | Yellow-tailed oriole (Jcterus meso-
ATOLLS) i
1 | Purple grackle (Quwiscalus quiscula) __
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris) _--___-----
1 | European goldfinch (Carduelis  car-
9 Gels), — 22 ose ee ee ee ee
Bramble finch (Fringilla montifrin-
2 WU) snes eee ee ees
21 Yellowhammer (Zmberiza citrinella) —-
House finch (Carpodacus mewicanius
1 frontalis) 2 U2 ee ee
San Lucas house finch (Carpodacus
1 mevicanus ruberrimus) —~_~---------
1 | Canary (Serinus canarius) —~-_~-------
83 | Gray singing finch (Serinus leucopy-
2 Gis). SUNS A | Oe eae IEE
REPTILES
43 | Pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucts) ~~
1 | Bull snake (Pituophis sayi) _---------
2 | Western bull snake (Pituophis cate-
1 nifer) = sacete sot ete es eee
6 | Water snake (Natriv sipedon) --------
1 | Western water snake (Natriv sipedon
st fascia) 2s Se eae
Garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis) —-
1 | Plorida rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman-
2 teue) Ve ge eh eee
1 | Western diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus
2 OtvOn) =. ees
Snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina)
1 | Florida snapping turtle (Chelydra
2 osceola) tek sees eee eae
Rossignon’s snapping turtle (Chelydra
6 rossignowii) 43-2 nL ees
2 | Musk turtle (Kinosternon odoratum) —-
1 | Mexican musk turtle (inosternon so-
: noriengée)enHk aes oe —seigesee

ee ee

a

»
-

19
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

South American musk turtle (Kino- Gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) 2
sternon. scorpioides) —_.____~-__.-=— 5 | Duncan Island tortoise (T’estudo ephip-
Pennsylvania musk turtle (IKinosternon DUTT Ge rm Sen ee om eee NTs A 1
SUDTUDrUMY = 208 Serres ast EK te 2 |) Indefatigable Island tortoise (Testudo
Wood turtle (Clemmys insculpta) —_-- i MOrtertiyn Se bee ws cae ee oe 1
Buropean pond turtle (Hmys orbicu- Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo
dards = See etree Sree ait) eet 5 DECI RE SANDS a Bake PORES OM Se ae 2
South American terrapin (Nicoria punc- South American tortoise (Testudo den-
ABUL TAC ae oa a ee ee ee f CACALULL 1) ee ee Sg 2
Reeves turtle (Geoclemmys reevesi) __ 1 African tortoise (Testudo hermanni) _—_— 1
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta)—-__ 8 | Long-necked turtle (Chelodina longi-
Cooter (Pseudemys scripta) -________ Z COLYER ae ee eo ha ee 1
Central American cooter (Pstudemys Chicken turtle (Deirochelys  reticu-
PERC CTT TED Vg a ae ee Eee a ea 2 iG) oS rE 1
Statement of the collection
Mam- | Birds | Reptiles | Total
PROT iG lee ye te ee ee ae Oe ae RS nt 28 54 34 116
Born and hatched in National Zoological Park__--------------- 54 20), |e ee 74
REECE edt OX CHANG OSt a. see coe eae et eas a ee Sa 2 5 A pn ara Sa 14
TRRRIAGT NCR 2 hacen oe ce nee abt REN Sea SE SS sd 60 26 5 91
Transferred from other Government departments----.--------- 1 11 1 13
Mapositadsnere=+ 2s: 22 tSeE see EEE loeb ree es 15 13 6 34
160 Ce 16 pe ost! 46) —342
: SUMMARY
PAE AT eT EL AATEC ATLL Yoke MO ea ees ie ee Se 2 Ee ee 1, 645
PNCCESTIONSG OU Lin Ors Ciel VOR tase een es eens ae ye | Dees ee ee ae es 342
SPO eo elgh TT RES PEG LO ae ete ete Se ne a a es 1, 987
Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) _-____-____-__________- 367
1, 620
Status of collection
. Individ-
Species anls
WitNirtare Saue CORee s Oy ee eee oe @ eae OS ie Oe MES 5 edb Be ee el Rees SR Ree 178 503
1s Ree ee ees oko See nes ane Os eS See Ee eee 2 ee See ee eee oe 285 982
JESSOP ht a See a re in ee dR 0 OE ne eee ee ee 48 135
Mi) pr ie er SE Sy ee Oe SPs Peete See Weg ry ors eee eee 511 1, 620

Compared with the previous year, a decrease in number of indi-
viduals is shown and compared with 1923, when there were 1,768
animals in the collection, a still greater decrease is noted. This is
due to continued losses in the aging stock, especially among the
larger forms. The number of forms represented exceeds that of
last year, an increase due to judicious selection and purchase of
small species offered at moderate prices.

Additional funds are urgently needed for purchase of animals to
fill the steadily increasing gaps in the groups of larger mammals.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
VISITORS

The attendance record as determined by count and estimate ex-
ceeded that of the previous year by 75,385. The greatest attendance
for one month was 372,950, in April. The increase is highly grati-
fying as it indicates the keen interest of the general public in the
collections.

The attendance by months was as follows:

Ff. Spina eli tees Saal AIO Sa Ae SS woe SS ee 240, 700
AUSUSE. oe ee eens ae pee a sR Se en a) 324, 000
peptember=2 i a ies 2) ee 232, 725
QOL OR Crh a a ee 235, 000
CIN ERMA Oa 2 ha 2 gh Ne a eae ee 179, 500
Me@eem Day 552 Seis 5s Se le ha ed al a aoe Sele eal ; 56, 630
LTV CL Sis en ae = faire ae Se ee ok Ra Bal ee ee 37, 110
1 N=) Ofig CN a pes Sa teeie Gla Re Linares VERMIN, Gee ioe Merely TA ee 121, 550
Mangh® } irre ee ae Ue Oe ee ee ee 248, 200
pAspril% whew ster) ch A el oa bie een | ane eee nan ar PR EES 372, 950
WV iy Fe EDS Ee AT, _ PAGS ES are enn t 2 Le ERE ee Os oe ee ER 269, 300
>| Lb AD lhe A ey ip names Aer eset st Sn CaS EAM te post os te acre US A ha 200, 600

CT Oa RO TE ey Cr ea he en a a an os Fe 2, 518, 265

Schools, classes, and similar organizations, recorded among the
visitors, number 266, with a total of 20,890 individuals.
The highest attendance for a year recorded previously was
2,444,880 in 1924.
IMPROVEMENTS

The animal warehouse, 24 by 90 feet, with a small ell for a feed
room, the construction of which had been begun during the previous
year, was completed and put into service before the end of 1925.
This building is very useful, both as quarters for animals tempor-
arily not on exhibition, and as a reception house for animals just
arriving where they may rest before being placed on exhibition. It
will also be useful during the winter in storing birds which are ex-
hibited during the summer in the big flight cage and elsewhere, and
for which there is no room in the bird house.

A double bear cage of steel, each half 12 by 16 feet, with con-
crete shelter, has been erected to take the place of a large wooden
cage that was decayed beyond safety or justifiable repair.

The log dam of loose bowlders across Rock Creek at the head of
the American water-fowl pond to maintain a flow of water into the
pond, which had been repeatedly washed out by floods, was replaced
by a log dam faced with bowlders. The logs used were obtained
from chestnut trees in the park that had died from bark disease.

A concrete chimney was built on the restaurant. This building
still needs various improvements, especially the addition of a kitchen,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

as well as an inclosed room where visitors may lunch comfortably
in cold weather.

The bird house required repairs, as usual. Some of the cages
were in such bad condition that they had to be entirely replaced.
A new floor was laid in the feed room, and various minor repairs
made. The roof leaked badly and will require treatment during
the coming year.

The eland house, the zebra house, the fences about these, rub-
bish containers, outdoor benches, various inclosure fences, and other
ironwork were painted during the year.

WATER MAIN

One thousand five hundred and eighty feet of six-inch water main
was laid, and two fire hydrants installed, through a special ap-
propriation of $3,250, supplemented by funds taken from the general
appropriation.

NEEDS OF THE PARK

The need of the park for exhibition buildings is even more acute
than in previous years, as there has been tremendous growth in the
number of visitors and there is need for better conditions for exhibi-
tion. The most important and customary buildings required by a
zoological park are: Carnivore, pachyderm, primate, antelope, small
mammal, bird, and reptile houses. Of permanent structures, the
National Zoological Park has a primate house, a house to contain
one elephant, and one end of a carnivore house. All other build-
ings are old, without exception originally built as temporary make-
shifts and kept together only by continual and often expensive
repairs.

The building that shelters most of the birds, built 28 years ago,
was then intended to house the collections for three or four years,
until a suitable bird house could be constructed. This structure is
dark, with walls so decayed that they will no longer hold pebble-
dash, and provides entirely inadequate space for either the collection
of birds or the great numbers of visitors; it is not only unfit for its
present use but actually unsafe for its inmates.

There is no house for reptiles, always popular with visitors, and
none for small mammals. Such reptiles and small mammals as
are shown at the park are scattered about in places where it is in-
convenient to care for them, and where in some instances they
actually close the passages needed for visitors.

During a period of 35 years a collection of animals has been
assembled in the National Zoological Park which ranks among the
most notable in this country. Adequate buildings to replace the
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

present obsolete quarters should be provided to house properly the
living animals, to maintain them in health, and to exhibit them
to the more than two million visitors who come annually to view
them.

FUNDS FOR THE PURCHASE OF ANIMALS

The collection at the National Zoological Park is augmented each
year by various gifts, and through unusual success in the breeding
and rearing of animals, the park has been able to exchange speci-
mens with other zoological parks so that it has maintained a rea-
sonably well-balanced collection of the living animals of the world,
always lacking, however, representatives of certain important and
interesting species. For instance, there has never been a giraffe
at the park. There is no rhinoceros, no pigmy hippopotamus, and
no Indian elephant. Such animals as these, when offered to the
park can not be considered owing to the entirely inadequate fund
for the purchase of animals, and opportunities are frequently lost
to fill definite gaps in the collection, as well as to replace species
lost through death, by the purchase of most desirable animals that
are offered for sale.

An increased appropriation to cover cost and transportation of
animals has been requested, but it seems advisable also to repeat the
suggestion made in previous reports that an animal purchase fund
be inaugurated and deposited with the Smithsonian Institution.

REVENUES OF THE PARK

A zoological park itself is not expected to finance the refresh-
ment of visitors. There are in the National Zoological Park, how-
ever, as in other parks, a refreshment stand and a restaurant which
are rented to private parties. The money from these concessions,
under present regulations, goes to the United States Treasury and
can not be used for the park, although repairs and other costs in
connection with the restaurant must be borne by the park. It is
earnestly recommended that the revenues from the restaurant con-
cession, which serves only to benefit the public, be turned into the
animal fund of the park instead of into the general fund of the
Treasury. Such is the established practice in other parks, munici-
pal and otherwise, which often derive considerable funds for the
purchase of animals from such concessions.

Respectfully submitted. .

W. M. Mann, Superintendent.

Dr. Cuaries D. Waucort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the
following passage of the independent offices appropriation act ap-
proved June 7, 1924:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants,
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, appuratus, making necessary ob-
servations in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscel-
laneous expenses, $21,580.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within
an inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian ad-
ministration building at Washington, a cement observing station and
frame cottage for observers on a plot of 10,000 square feet leased
from the Carnegie Solar Observatory on Mount Wilson, Calif., and
also a solar observing station on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., erected
in 1920 at the expense of private funds contributed by Mr. John A.
Roebling, of Bernardsville, N. J.

The present value of the buildings and equipment for the Astro-
physical Observatory owned by the Government is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace
the outfit for the purposes of the investigation.

WORK OF THE YEAR

Solar variation and forecasting—The chief object of the work
at present is to secure the most exact measurements of the variation
of the sun in order to provide proper data for studying the influ-
ence of solar changes on weather conditions of the United States
and the whole world. Accordingly, the efforts of the staff were de-
voted mainly to this purpose. The Government appropriations
were sufficient only to maintain the work at Washington and Ari-
zona, and to pay salaries of two observers at the exceptionally favor-
able station at Montezuma, Chile. This station was established in
1918, and has been maintained ever since by private funds of the
Institution, supplemented by gifts of Mr. Roebling. Owing to fur-
ther support by Mr. Roebling, it has been possible to receive daily
telecrams reporting the solar radiation observations in Chile and
in Arizona. These arrive at Washington within 24 hours of the
observations in the field.

76041—26—_8 101
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The experimental forecasts by Mr. H. H. Clayton for the city of
New York, mentioned in last year’s report, were continued. For
this purpose daily telegrams of the condition of the sun were sent
from Washington to Mr. Clayton at Canton, Mass. These usually
reached him before noon on the day after the observations were
made in Chile and Arizona. Making up his New York forecasts
for three, four, and five days ahead, Mr. Clayton informed the
Smithsonian by letter on the same afternoon. On Friday of each
week he forecast the temperature departures for the ensuing week
beginning Sunday, and about the end of each month he forecast
the temperature departures for the ensuing month. These weekly
and monthly forecasts were elso mailed in advance to the Smith-
sonian Institution.

We have compared Clayton’s forecasts with the events, using
mathematical processes of verification which are not susceptible of
personal bias. A moderate degree of foreknowledge is certainly in-
dicated, both for the specific forecasts of three, four, and five days
-in advance, and for the more general average forecasts of weeks
and months.

On May 2, 1925, a symposium on this subject was held at the
United States Weather Bureau before the American Meteorological
Society. At that time, Messrs. C. G. Abbot and H. H. Clayton ex-
plained the status of the measurements of solar variation, and their
applications for forecasting. Later, these papers of Abbot and
Clayton, and also a paper by Mr. G. Hoxmark, on the results
reached since 1922 in the application of solar variation for official
forecasts in Argentina, were published as Nos. 5, 6, and 7, of Volume
77, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

The costs of telegraphic advices and of Mr. Clayton’s computing
bureau have been borne by Mr. Roebling’s gifts for these purposes,
as also the cost of publication of the papers just mentioned.

No public forecasts have been made or will be made under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Our entire purpose in
the matter is, and has always been, to make such experiments as
might indicate what value, if any, would attach to the introduction
of a new variable, namely, the variation of the sun, in weather fore-
casting. Our forecasts are made privately and only as tests of the
experimental conclusions.

Unfortunately, space writers in the public prints have not under-
stood this and have attributed to the Smithsonian Institution fore-
casts of weather conditions far into the future. These, in reality,
have been made by several private individuals entirely unconnected
with the Institution. We take no responsibility for these prognos-
tications, as we know as yet of no sound method by which they may
be made.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

A compilation of all results on the solar constant of radiation,
from 1918 to November, 1924, was published as No. 3 of Volume 77,
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

The investigations hitherto made having indicated that a higher
degree of accuracy in our solar measurements is needed to supply
proper data for forecasting purposes, a very great deal of attention
has been given to the elimination of small sources of error in the
observations and reductions of solar radiation, Already the average
deviation of individual days’ results between Chile and Arizona is
but one-half per cent. It follows that in order to attain higher ac-
curacy we shall be obliged to regard sources of error which formerly
we supposed would always be negligible.

This has led to the designing and construction of new apparatus
for use in pyrheliometry, which eliminates the employment of the
observer’s watch altogether. It has also required the investigation
of the infra-red and ultra-violet portions of the solar spectrum, be-
yond the usual limits of our daily spectrum observations. Still
more important, it has led to a complete revision of the methods
of measuring and reducing solar energy spectra. With these new
modifications in mind, a complete re-reduction of all solar radiation
work since the beginning of the year 1922 has been undertaken, and
occupies the whole force at Washington.

Removal of Mount Harqua Hala station—The station at Mount
Harqua Hala, Ariz., first occupied in 1920, proves to be too far to
the east, so that the summer months there are unsuitable for ob-
serving, because of the atmospheric conditions which go to bring
about the severe thunderstorms of Arizona. Very few days of June,
July, and August have been suitable for our exacting work, and even
some of the spring months have been marred by long-continued
haziness. Had weather conditions there been first-rate, the ob-
servers would gladly have suffered the excessive isolation of the
place, which is almost wholly cut off from relaxations, but to make
such a sacrifice fruitlessly is indeed very depressing,

Accordingly, investigations have been made which have fixed on a
better site, both as regards weather conditions and comfort. ‘This is
chosen on Table Mountain, within the bounds of the Los Angeles
County Park, about 30 miles northeast of Mount Wilson. Lying on
the edge of the Mojave Desert, at 7,500 feet elevation, the weather
observations indicate very decided improvement over Harqua Hala
for our purpose. Add to this the conyenience of access and pleas-
ant surroundings and we have combined there great. advantages.

Mr. John A. Roebling has added to his already great gifts sufli-
cient means to enable necessary buildings to be erected on Table
Mountain, and to remove the observing outfit thence from Harqua
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Hala. The supervisors of the Los Angeles County Park have cor-
dially assisted in the transfer, giving rights of occupancy, and ex-
tending the auto road quite to the doors of the proposed observatory,
without expense to the Smithsonian Institution. It is expected to
occupy Table Mountain beginning about October 1, 1925. Mr.
Moore’s energetic efforts in the preliminary arrangements and the
preparation of buildings deserve high praise.

An expedition under Doctor Abbot occupied Mount Wilson in the
summer and autumn of 1924. The solar cooker was rebuilt, as far
as concerned its oven, its circulatory system for hot oil, and its in-
sulation against heat losses. The new oil system was perfectly suc-
cessful in avoiding all leaks, such as always hitherto have marred
the operations. Also, the introduction of a larger reservoir, and
especially of “Silocel,” or diatomaceous bricks, for heat insulation
proved highly satisfactory. The experiment was tried of intro-
ducing forced oil circulation by means of a little steam engine
operated by the heat of the reservoir. This worked well mechani-
cally, but proved unnecessary, as no higher temperatures of the
oven were reached when forced circulation was in operation.

It was intended to use a vacuum jacket about the heater tube, but
the apparatus was not received in season. Without this crowning
improvement the solar cooker worked fully as well as in 1920, when
its reputation was first made, despite the fact that somewhat thicker
insulation of the reservoir is needed, as the cooling curve shows.
When this, and also the vacuum jacket, are applied, the machine
should be highly satisfactory.

As noted in last year’s report, the Fabry type of apparatus has
been installed on Mount Wilson to measure the quantity of atmos-
pherie ozone. This feeble constituent of the very high air is, we
believe, very important in the economy of the earth’s heat, as well
as a fatal bar to observation of the most interesting part of the
spectra of the sun and the hotter stars.

Having fully developed and tested the ozone outfit, photographic
solar spectra of the ozone-absorption region of the ultra-violet were
obtained in August, September, and October, 1925. Unfortunately
the great forest fire east of Mount Wilson cut off a good many other-
wise favorable days. By the generosity of Mr. Roebling a copy of
the Moll spectrophotometer for measuring the plates has been pro-
cured from A. Hilger. The reductions are not yet made. Mr.
Roebling’s interest in this ozone research is so great that he has
made a grant to enable Doctor Fabry himself to continue daily
ozone measurements in France during a part of the year 1925.

The importance of studies of the variation of the sun’s output of
ultra-violet rays grows upon our attention. Not only the attack
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

on the ozone problem in that spectral region, but also the extraordi-
nary relations of the ultra-violet rays to human, animal, and plant
physiology are coming increasingly to the fore. Our own studies
indicate that the solar variations are far greater for those rays than
they are for the solar rays as a whole. ‘Thus the accompanying fig-
ure indicates that when the solar constant of radiation changes by
1 per cent it means almost imperceptible change for the infra-red
rays, but as much as 10 per cent or more for some rays of the ultra-
violet.

In addition to the work at Mount Wilson on the solar cooker and
the ozone of the higher atmosphere, much attention was paid to

A,B, HARQUA HALA. SOLAR CHAINGES, 2.3 AND 1.05 06

1.20

1.10

1.00
0,35ee LENCT 0 50 p
Ee Seal aa os sae Q,60 ae 0.80 1,00 : 1,50 2, ae

Solar variation localized in the violet and ultra-violet

attempts to improve the radiometer and the stellar-spectrum appa-
ratus, in the hope of going much further in studying the energy
spectra of the stars. Much knowledge was gained which will be
useful later on, and star-spectrum observations were made on sev-
eral nights, but no actually completed advance in stellar spectra
was attained. The way, however, is very clear now for future

advance.
PERSONNEL

Mr. H. B. Freeman accepted service on the private Smithsonian
roll as assistant at Harqua Hala in September, 1924, and succeeded
Mr. L. B. Aldrich in charge at Montezuma on March 1, 1925. Mr.
Aldrich returned to Washington.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. E. E. Smith was employed on the private roll as assistant at
Harqua Hala from February 9, 1925.

Mr. A. J. Ahearn assisted Doctor Abbot on Mount Wilson aii
the expedition of 1924.

SUMMARY

Much progress in the study of the variation of the sun and its ap-
plication to weather forecasting has been made, as reported in pub-
lications Nos. 5, 6, and 7 of Volume 77, Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections. Improvements in apparatus and methods de-
signed to add to the accuracy of solar radiation measurements, and
to make possible a valuable revision of existing values, are on foot.
The station at Harqua Hala, having proved somewhat disappointing,
is being removed to Table Mountain, in California, about 2,000 feet
higher, but much more accessible. The solar cooker has been greatly
improved. Measurements of atmospheric ozone are in progress.
‘New devices were tried in stellar energy spectrum measurements and
the way seems clear for great advances in that line.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Aspor, Director.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op-
erations of the United States Regional Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1925:

As has been stated in previous annual reports, actual publication
of the catalogue was suspended in 1921 upon completion of the
fourteenth annual issue. In conformity with an agreement reached
at the International Convention held in Brussels in 1922, the work
of this regional bureau, in common with others of the organization,
has been continued but is confined to the collection of the data neces-
sary to index the current scientific literature of the United States
for the several years intervening between the cessation of publica-
tion and the present time. This procedure not only enables the
organization to be kept intact but, when publication is resumed and
the classification schedules are revised, data will be available to
complete the catalogue.

It seems advisable to again outline the aim, scope, and need of
the catalogue in view of the fact that the many new projects which
have sprung up in minor fields, lacking harmony of purpose and co-
operation of effort, have, even when taken collectively, entirely failed
to supply the need of an International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature.

The catalogue was started in 1901 with the aim and purpose of
meeting the long-felt need of scientific investigators and librarians
for an annual authors’ and subject catalogue and index to the scien-
tific literature of the world, a need felt even more to-day than in 1901.
To this end, systematic classification schedules were prepared cover-
ing all recognized branches of science and each paper was not only
catalogued and indexed, but also classified by means of these sched-
ules, the result being equivalent to an analytical digest of each
paper.

Financial support to enable the organization to properly function
is urgent. The amount required is not great, measured in present-
day terms, but is none the less essential. Between 1901 and the
beginning of the war, necessary funds for publication were supplied
by subscribers in the countries taking part in the enterprise. Only
the actual cost of printing and publishing had to be met from these

107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

funds as maintenance of the several regional bureaus was then, as
now, provided for, in most cases, by direct governmental grants.
However, the additional funds needed to meet the increased cost of
printing and publishing, under war conditions, had to be met by
the subscribers and these increases when expressed in the depreciated
currency of many countries, resulted in impossible figures; conse-
quently, publication had to be suspended.

When operations began in 1901, the price to subscribers of a
complete set of the 17 annual volumes of the catalogue, com-
prising about 10,000 pages, was £17, the pound sterling being then
at par. The American subscription price was, after adding ship-
ping costs, $85. The income derived from subscriptions and the
expenditures of the London Central Bureau, in charge of printing
and publishing, approximately balanced in 1914, when war began.
Since that time publishing costs, in England, have doubled and
the value of the French france has sunk to less than one-fourth,
and the Italian lira to less than one-fifth of their respective par
values. Without tabulation, it is obvious that a cost easily borne
in these countries in 1901 has become impossible in 1925. It was
never the intention for the International Catalogue to be a com-
mercial enterprise, but rather the means of furnishing, at cost, to
investigators and students data needed to keep them informed of the
scientific progress of the world. Experience proves that inter-
national cooperation is the only means whereby the necessary data
can be collected and prepared for such an index, but it is now
apparent that some new source of revenue must be provided to print
this data before publication can be resumed.

Could a sufficient endowment be obtained, the organization would
again become self-supporting, as there is now a greater demand
for the catalogue than ever before and a central bureau provided
with its own publishing plant, or capital sufficient to make advan-
tageous long-term contracts with properly equipped publishing
houses, would be enabled to offset the increased cost of publication
by the saving of the interest and other charges, which were neces-
sary in 1901 to an organization doing business without capital. If
it were possible to secure such an endowment in the United States,
now the only country not unduly oppressed by the results of war,
American students and investigators would be much benefited for,
notwithstanding impoverished conditions, much advanced and valu-
able scientific work is being done abroad with which it is difficult
to keep in touch without the annual volumes of the International
Catalogue.

Respectfully submitted. Lronarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1925.

CHANGES IN STAFF

During the year there were several changes in the library staff.
Mr. Paul Brockett, who had been connected with the Smithsonian
Institution for 38 years and had served since 1902 as its assistant
librarian, resigned to devote full time to his duties as assistant sec-
retary of the National Academy of Sciences. Mr. Brockett’s suc-
cessor, Mr. William L. Corbin, formerly professor of English in
Boston University, assumed the position of librarian on Septem-
ber 15.

Mr. Newton P. Scudder, assistant librarian of the United States
National Museum, retired from active service March 9, on account
of age and disability, and died May 19. Mr. Scudder became con-
nected with the Smithsonian Institution in 1882, where he remained
for more than 40 years, the last 38 of which he was assistant libra-
rian of the National Museum. Perhaps never again will the
Museum library have as its reference chief a person so fully ac-
quainted with its collections as he was, or so willing to give of his
knowledge and time to those who came with questions.

Mr. Lester D. Condit, assistant in the library since 1918, was
granted a furlough in October to resume his university course. He
has since withdrawn from the library staff and the position was
filled by the appointment of Miss Sara L. Young, a graduate of
Elmira College and of Drexel Institute Library School. Miss
Young has worked with scientific publications for many years,
especially as cataloguer for the American Philosophical Society and
the Library of Congress.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The increase of the Smithsonian Library is due chiefly to the
exchange of publications between the Smithsonian Institution and
other learned institutions and societies of the world. Many of

109
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

these publications come to the library direct, others through the
International Exchange Service, with which the library is in close
cooperation. During the past year the library received 30,496 pack-
ages by mail and 2,408 through the exchanges. Especially large
sendings were received from Barcelona, Budapest, and Warsaw. As
usual, after these packages had been opened, the items were stamped,
entered, and sent to the appropriate branches of the library. The
large number received was due partly to the special effort made by
the periodical and correspondence divisions in noting wants and
writing follow-up letters. In fact, most of the 1,181 letters sent
out by the library had to do with these wants. The result was that
of the 2,478 missing volumes and parts requested, 2,009 were ob-
tained, a gain of nearly 30 per cent over last year. Exchange rela-
tions were also opened with a number of new societies.

MAIN LIBRARY

Many of the items mentioned above were, of course, forwarded
day by day to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress,
where they were made available to the public. The number of these
was 7,287, of which there were 5,184 complete volumes, 1,421 parts
of volumes, 390 pamphlets, and 292 charts. Documents of foreign
governments, more or less statistical in character, to the number of
7,408, were also sent, without being stamped or entered, to the
document division of the Library of Congress.

Dissertations were received from various universities at home and
abroad, such as Basel, Berlin, Bern, Breslau, Copenhagen, Cornell,
Dresden, Erlangen, Frankfurt a. M., Freiburg, Ghent, Giessen,
Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Leipzig, Leyden, Lund,
Marburg, Paris, Pennsylvania, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Uppsala,
Utrecht, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at Berlin, Delft,
Karlsruhe, and Ziirich.

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library, which includes the publications of several
learned societies, the aeronautical collection, the art-room collection,
the employees’ library, and various books, chiefly of a reference
nature, in the administrative offices, was increased during the year
by 312 volumes, 5 parts of volumes, and 4 pamphlets. Of these, 34
were added to the aeronautical collection.

One of the most important additions to this library was a de luxe
copy of the Warner Library of the World’s Best Literature, the gift
of Secretary Walcott; another was Seven Log-Books Concerning the
Arctic Voyages of Capt. William Scoresby, sr., of Whitby, Eng-
land, presented by the Explorers Club of New York.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Ft

The circulation of the library was 2,359, of which 1,956 were
magazines borrowed from the reading room. Many more volumes
and periodicals were consulted in the reference room. ‘The books
most in demand were the transactions of the learned societies, the
aeronautical collection, and several important individual works, such
as Combarelles aux Ezyies, by Abbé Breuil and others, a book finally
assigned to the Smithsonian deposit.

The work done during the year on the general catalogue of the
Smithsonian library, which is kept in the office reading room, may
be summarized as follows:

Volumes -and. pampmiets, Catalosued === 22. eee a eae 4, 509
SVAN INERT Gime Cx rb Us OSU er ee ee ye de Nee ee ee eee ee eee 264
@hartssenthHlosued Milt. iis SR OTS ee ie a ad a Bde hs 324
Cand ss typed sea te dee Se eae te ee oa ory a ays 2,157
libraryor Coneressncards filed.) nth ee eee 1, 078
BING Weed TEER OTES SSCL GCC Se eee ee ee ee a es 393

MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum contains 65,148
volumes and 102,951 pamphlets, a total of 168,099. Of these, 1,457
volumes and 1,894 pamphlets were added during the year.

While most of these accessions were obtained by exchange of
publications, or by purchase, many came by gift. Among the donors
were Mr. W. I. Adams, Miss M. D. Ashton, Dr. Marcus Benjamin,
Mr. A. H. Clark, Mr. F. W. Clarke, Dr. W. H. Dall, Mr. J. A. Gal-
lagher, Mr. L. C. Gunnell, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. W. H. Holmes, Dr. A.
Hrdlitka, Dr. W. R. Maxon, Dr. G. S. Miller, jr., Mr. W. de C.
Ravenel, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. S. A. Rohwer, Mr. E. V. Shan-
non, Mr. R. C. Smith, Mr. B. H. Swales, and Dr. C. D. Walcott. The
gifts of Secretary Walcott to the division of geology and paleontol-
ogy and of Doctor Dall to that of mollusks were generous, as usual,
the latter numbering 97 titles. The gifts of Doctor Richmond to
the division of birds were also large. But the outstanding gift of
the year was the entomological library, numbering about 4,500
volumes and pamphlets, chiefly on Coleoptera, left to the Museum by
the late Col. Thomas L. Casey, and increased by the generosity
of Mrs. Casey. This is one of the best collections on its subject in
the United States, and contains many rare items. It will be made
available to the curators as soon as possible and will be deposited in
the section of insects.

In the course of the year several thousand cards of the Concilium
Bibliographicum were filed, 14,329 parts of periodicals were en-
tered, 2,623 volumes and pamphlets were catalogued, and 9,000 cards
were added. Books borrowed from the Library of Congress num-
bered 1,628 and from other libraries 112, chiefily for the use of the
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

curators, and about the same number were returned. The loans
totaled 8,148, of which 5,861 were made to the sectional libraries, and
more than ever before to universities, such as Chicago, Illinois, Michi-
gan, and Minnesota, and to other institutions, both in Washington
und elsewhere. Many publications were consulted in the reference
room, not only by members of the Museum staff but also by others,
especially Government employees and scholars connected with various.
universities and museums, American and foreign. Two hundred
and fifty-six volumes were bound.

The number of sectional libraries in the Museum is now 38. These,
while under the immediate care of the administrative and scientific |
staffs, are at the same time very real and important parts of the
general library and are administered as such. Their resources are
its resources, and their needs are its needs. And these needs are
often most urgent—the very ones to which the librarian feels he
should give his best thought and help. The past year he has devoted
much time to the study of these resources and needs, and to the
solution of the problems they have disclosed. The sectional libraries
are as follows:

Administration. Mechanical technology.
Administrative assistant’s office. Medicine.

American archeology. Mineral technology.
Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mollusks.

Birds. National Gallery of Art.
Botany. Old World archeology.
Echinoderms. Organic chemistry.
Eiditor’s office. Paleobotany.

Ethnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical anthropology.
Foods. Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Graphic arts. Superintendent's office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate paleontology. Vertebrate paleontology.
Mammals. War library.

Marine invertebrates. Wood technology.

TECHNOLOGICAL LIBRARY

The technological library, the division of the Museum Library
which contains the collections of especial interest to the curators of
arts and industries, is located in the Old Museum Building. Dur-
ing the year the reorganization of its material was continued. Its
accessions numbered 152 volumes and 353 pamphlets, and its loans
150.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY | agli

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

Additions to the library of the Astrophysical Observatory num-
bered 114 volumes, 32 parts of volumes, and 89 pamphlets. The
number of volumes bound was 81. Exact records of loans can not
be given, as they are included with those of the office library.

This is one of the most important of the smaller branches of the
Smithsonian library and is much in use. Thanks to the generosity of
a friend, its collections will be enlarged and made more available in
the immediate future.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The activities of the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology
are described in the report of the chief of that bureau, by whom
the library is administered.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

As the National Gallery of Art is housed in the Natural History
Building, its library is at present administered as a sectional library
of the National Museum. This library, although possessing only 961
titles, of which 426 are volumes and 5385 pamphlets, has been most
carefully selected, and should grow rapidly when given room in the
National Gallery Building now in prospect. Its accessions during
the year were 118 volumes, 478 parts of volumes, and 52 pamphlets.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is solely a reference
library, restricted to the interests represented in the collections of art
objects—that is to say, to the arts and cultures of the Far East, of
India and Persia, and the nearer east; to the life and works of
James McNeill Whistler and of certain other American painters
whose pictures are owned by the gallery; and further, to a very
limited degree, to that field of study represented by the Biblical
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the posses-
sions of the Freer Gallery, are known as the Washington manu-
scripts. AJl books and library facilities are at the service of the
public. During the year 200 persons availed themselves of these
privileges. Most of the more serious students came from a distance
for the especial purpose of studying various parts of the collections
and the books relating to them.

The library comprises about 2,200 books in English, French, Ger-
man, and Dutch and almost 300 in Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan,
with necessary dictionaries. In addition, there are a good many
volumes on loan from the Library of Congress. During the year
90 volumes and 127 pamphlets were added to the library.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

Early in the year the cataloguing of the library of the National
Zoological Park was completed, and its duplicates and other super-
fluous material were removed. Its accessions, including the old items
which had been in the library for some time but which had never
been entered, were 475 volumes, 1 part, and 2 pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year, with the exception of those to the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized
as follows:

Other
Library Volumes | publica- | Total

tions
ASLLGDUTSICAl ODSCEVALONY s = cee ee ee en ee ee 114 121 235
Breer Gallerviot Art. 256% = ooo ote ad ORG ee ee ee eee ae 90 127 217
Netional Galléry of Arti 2222440. SS ea Ee eee 118 530 648
National dol apical (Pavk:. 42% 9, el ae ee te eel 475 3 478
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress. .......-.---------------------- 5, 184 2, 103 7, 287
Briithsenian offices is SU aes PRU) eet Bede 312 9 321

Wnited StajestNational Museum. ~~... oe Fo ee 1, 457 1, 894 3, 351

ECVE SESE ATO eC ed ae Ce 7, 750 4, 787 12, 537

An estimate of the number of volumes, pamphlets, and-charts in
the Smithsonian library (including the Smithsonian deposit in the
Library of Congress) on June 30, 1925, was as follows:

AY OU UTI fe en ae ee ro es A ty ee Rs 507, 750
PRIM PHTCCR HE LAA D ERER SE REL B2SE RSS AL ESA A ORL RP OAS SY) SUP NOL: eee Mer ieee 187, 558
Charts 4 2t2 8 ot ta soe tiite Des AUER ort Ob oe hee at ei 23, 462

AN 0) 0) Geet eeen es: eee coe kee Sg ee PA oS A 668, 770

This number does not include the many thousands of parts of
volumes now in the library awaiting completion of the volumes.

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Besides carrying on the usual work of the year, the library staff
gave as much time as possible to special problems, such as sorting
accumulations of miscellaneous material in different parts of the
library; bringing together superfluous duplicates and separates to
be disposed of later by gift or by piece for piece exchange; inven-
torying the sectional libraries; making shelf lists for the two divi-
sions of the Museum library; advancing the cataloguing of several
of the special collections, particularly the Iddings, Gill, and Knab;
furthering the cause of science by making part of the Lacoe collec-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY tig

tion available for semipermanent deposit with colleges, universities,
and museums; and responding to many requests involving reference
work for various Government departments and for institutions and
individuals the country over.

Furthermore, the librarian made an extensive survey of the con-
dition of the library and submitted a detailed report of its needs to
the secretary. This survey revealed many problems pressing for
solution, problems that can be solved only by a liberal increase,
over a term of years, of the funds appropriated for library purposes.
These increased funds should be at hand at the earliest possible
moment, to the end that more than 8,000 volumes may be bound;
that more than 30,000 books and pamphlets, including several almost
priceless collections, may be accessioned and catalogued; that a dic-
tionary catalogue of the entire hbrary (including the sectional
libraries), except, of course, the Smithsonian deposit, may be made;
and that other urgent pieces of work connected with the reorgani-
zation and development of the library may be done—in a word, that
the rich collections of the library may, by a more complete applica-
tion of modern methods, be made available without undue delay to
scientific workers, both in Washington and elsewhere. Then and
then only will the library be ready to do its full part toward the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.

Respectfully submitted.

Wirriram L. Corsi,
Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
year ending June 30, 1925:

The Institution proper published during the year 12 papers in the
series of Miscellaneous Collections, 2 annual reports and pamphlet
copies of 48 articles in the general appendixes to these reports, and
6 special publications. The Bureau of American Ethnology pub-
lished 1 bulletin and 2 annual reports. The United States National
Museum issued 1 annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 2 com-
plete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin, 3 parts of 2 volumes in the
series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium,
and 66 separates from the proceedings. The National Gallery of
Art issued four catalogues of special exhibitions.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year
171,865 copies, which inclnded 262 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 24,008 volumes and sepa-
rates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 26,825 volumes
and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports, 6,102 Smithsonian
special publications, 104,596 volumes and separates of the various
series of National Museum publications, 7,354 publications of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, 114 publications of the National
Gallery of Art, 68 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, 44 reports on the Harriman Alaska expedition, 1,057 re-
ports of the American Historical Association, and 1,485 publications
presented to but not issued directly by the Smithsonian Institution
or its branches.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 69, 1 paper
was issued; volume 75, 2 papers; volume 76, 3 papers; volume ‘77,
6 papers; in all, 12 papers, as follows:

VOLUME 6

No. 1. Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, Fourth Revised Edition. First
Reprint. December 5, 1924. (Publ. 2493.)
116
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

VOLUME 75

No. 2. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. V. No. 2. Cambrian and Lower
Ozarkian Trilobites. By Charles D. Walcott. July 19, 1924. Pp. 53-60, pls.
9-14. (Publ. 2788.)

No. 3. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. V. No. 3. Cambrian and Ozar-
kian Trilobites. By Charles D. Walcott. June 1, 1925. Pp. 61-146, pls. 15-24.
(Publ. 2823.)

VOLUME 76

No. 11. The Freshfield Glacier, Canadian Rockies. By Howard Palmer.
August 2, 1924. 16 pp., 9 pls., 3 text figs. (Publ. 2757.)

No. 12. ‘ Adaptations” to Social Life: The Termites (Isoptera). By Thomas
E. Snyder. September 2, 1924. 14 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2786.)

No. 13. Preliminary Archeological Explorations at Weeden Island, Florida.
By J. Walter Fewkes. October 14, 1924. 26 pp., 21 pls., 1 text fig. (Publ.
2787.)

VOLUME 77

No. 1. A Chapter in the History of Zoological Nomenclature. By Jeonhard
- Stejneger. August 30, 1924. 21 pp. (Publ. 2789.)

No. 2. Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1924,
April 17, 1925. 136 pp., 188 text figs. (Publ. 2794.)

No. 3 Provisional Solar Constant Values, August, 1920, to November, 1924.
By C. G. Abbot and Colleagues. February 17, 1925. 38 pp., 2 text figs. (Publ.
2818.)

No. 5. Solar Variation and Forecasting. By C. G. Abbot. June 20, 1925.
27 pp., 18 figs. (Publ. 2825.)

No. 6. Solar Radiation and Weather, or Forecasting Weather from Observa-
tions of the Sun. By H. H. Clayton. June 20, 1925. 64 pp., 45 text figs.
(Publ. 2826.)

No. 7. Solar Radiation and the Weekly Weather Forecast of the Argentine
Meteorological Service. By Guillermo Hoxmark. June 20, 1925. 23 pp., 5
text figs. (Publ. 2827.)

In press at close of year
VOLUME 77

No. 4. An Introduction to the Morphology and Classification of the Fora-
minifera. By Joseph A. Cushman. July 21, 1925. 77 pp., 16 pls., 11 text
figs. (Publ. 2824.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1922.—The complete volume of the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents for 1922 was received from the Public
Printer in October, 1924.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1922. xii+554 pp., 142 pls., 49 text figures. (Publ. 2724.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

Who will promote science? by C. G. Abbot.
Recent discoveries and theories relating to the structure of matter. bv Kar]
Taylor Compton.

76041—26——_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The architecture of atoms and a universe built of atoms, by C. G. Abbot.

Aeronautic research, by Joseph S. Ames.

Photosynthesis and the possible use of solar energy, by H. A. Spoehr.

Fogs and clouds, by W. J. Humphreys.

Some aspects of the use of the annual rings of trees in climatic study, by
Prof. A. E. Douglass.

The age of the earth, by T. C. Chamberlin and others.

How deep is the ocean? by C. G. Abbot.

Two decades of genetic progress, by E. M. East.

Observations on a Montana beaver canal, by S. Stillman Berry.

The Republic of Salvador, by Paul C. Standley.

The tent caterpillar, by R. HE. Snodgrass.

The life history and habits of the solitary wasp, Philanthus gibbosus, by Ed-
ward G. Reinhard.

The use of idols in Hopi worship, by J. Walter Fewkes.

Two Chaco Canyon pit houses, by Neil M. Judd.

Cellections of Old World archeology in the United States National Museum,
by I. M. Casanowicz.

The “ Shake Religion” of Puget Sound, by T. T. Waterman.

Excavations at Askalon, by Prof. J. Garstang.

National efforts at home making, by F. H. Newell.

Ideals of the telephone service, by John J. Carty.

Report for 1923.—The complete volume of the Report of the
Board of Regents for 1923 was received from the Public Printer in

June, 1925.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1923. xii+578 pp., 100 pls., 72 text figures. (Publ.

2758. )
The appendix contained the following papers:

The constitution and evolution of the stars, by Henry Norris Russell.

The sun and sunspots, 1820-1920, by E. Walter Maunder.

Joining the electric wave and heat wave spectra, by E. F. Nichols and J. D.
Tear.

The possibilities of instrumental development, by George E. Hale.

The borderland of astronomy and geology, by Prof. A. S. Eddington.

Atmospheric nitrogen fixation, by Erie A. Lof.

The place of proteins in the diet in the light of the newer knowledge of nutri.
tion, by H. H. Mitchell.

The story of the production and uses of ductile tantalum, by Clarence W.
Balke.

The composition of the earth’s interior, by L. H. Adams and N. L. Williamson.

Diamond-bearing peridotite in Pike County, Ark., by H. D. Miser and ©. S
Ross.

Recent progress and trends in vertebrate paleontology, by W. D. Matthew.

Animals in the National Zoological Park, by N. Hollister.

The burrowing rodents of California as agents in soil formation, by Joseph
srinnell.

The natural history of China, by A. de C. Sowerby.

Life in the ocean, by Austin H, Clark,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

A study of the flight of sea gulls, by R. C. Miller.

Insect musicians and their instruments, by R. E. Snodgrass.

The gardens of ancient Mexico, by Mrs. Zelia Nuttall.

The Hovenweep National Monument, by J. Walter Fewkes.

The origin and antiquity of the American Indian, by A. Hrdlicka.

Ruined cities of Palestine, east and west of the Jordan, by Arthur W. Sutton.

The anthropological work of Prince Albert 1st of Monaco and recent progress
in human paleontology in France, by Marcellin Boule.

The utilization of voleanie steam in Italy.

Proposed tidal hydroelectric power development of the Petitcodiac and Mem.
ramcook Rivers, by W. Rupert Turnbull.

Sir James Dewar, by Sir James Crichton-Browne.

J. C. Kapteyn, by A. Van Maanen.

Julius Von Hann, by C. G. Simpson.

Report for 1924.—The report of the executive committee and pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution, and the report
of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in pamphlet form in De-
cember, 1924.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents of
The Smithsonian Institution fer the year ending June 30, 1924. 14 pp. (Publ.
2792.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1924. 124 pp. (Publ. 2791.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The origin of the solar system, by J. H. Jeans.

The electrical structure of matter, by Prof. Sir Ernest Rutherford.

The physicist’s present conception of an atom, by R. 8S. Millikan.

The vacuum—there’s something in it, by W. R. Whitney.

The use of radium in medicine, by Antoine Béclére.

Clear fused quartz made in the electric furnace, by Mdward R. Berry.

The drifting of the continents, by Pierre Termier.

The probable solution of the climatic problem in geology, by William Ramsay.

A modern managerie; more about the National Zoological Park, by N. Hollister.

Nests and nesting habits of the American eagle, by Francis H. Herrick.

The breeding places of the eel, by Johs. Schmidt.

Cankerworms, by R. HB. Snodgrass.

A botanical trip to Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, by A. 8S. Hitchcock.

Orchid collecting in Central America, by Paul C. Standley.

Sketches from the notebook of a naturalist-traveler in Oceania during the year
1923, by Casey A. Wood.

Historical tradition and oriental research, by James Henry Breasted.

Shamanism of the natives of Siberia, by I. M. Casanowicz.

Egypt as a field for anthropological research, by Prof. P. E. Newberry.

North American Indian dwellings, by T. T. Waterman.

The nature of language, by R. L. Jones.

John Mix Stanley, artist-explorer, By David I. Bushnell.

Herluf Winge, by Th. Mortensen.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Smithsonian Mathematical Tables—Hyperbolic Functions, Third reprint.
Prepared by George F. Becker and C. 8. Van Orstrand. December 10, 1924.
$21 pp. (Publ. 1871.)

The Relations of the Smithsonian Institution to the National Government.
February 5, 1925. 8 pp.

Niagara Falls: Its Power Possibilities and Preservation. By Samuel S.
Wyer. January 15, 1925. 28 pp., 2 pls., 4 figs. (Publ. 2820.)

Title page and index of Volume 67, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
(Publ. 2790.)

Title page and contents of Volume 74, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions. (Publ. 2821.)

Title page and contents of Volume 76, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions. (Publ. 2822.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report, (>) the Proceedings of the United States National Museum,
and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum, which
includes the contributions from the United States National Herba-
rium. The editorship of these publications is vested in Dr. Marcus
Benjamin.

During the year ending June 30, 1925, the Museum published 1
annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 2 complete bulletins, 1
part of a bulletin, 3 parts of 2 volumes in the series Contributions
from the United States National Herbarium, and 66 separates from
the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
Adjacent Regions. Volume 6, part 1. Marine Diatoms of the Philippine
Islands. By Albert Mann.

Bulletin 129. The Spider Crabs of America. By Mary J. Rathbun.

Bulletin 130. Life Histories of North American Wild Fowi. Order Anseres
(Part). By Arthur Cleveland Bent.

Of the separate papers of the Contributions from the United
States National Herbarium the following were issued:

Volume 20, part 13. Revision of the American Species of Rinorea. New Plants
from Venezuela. Hemibaccharis. A new Genus of Baccharidinae. By 8S. F.
Blake.

Volume 20, part 14. The American Species of Canavalia and Wenderothia. By
C. V. Piper.

Volume 23, part 4. Trees and Shrubs of Mexico. (Passifloraceae-Scrophularia-
ceae.) By Paul C. Standley.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 4 were from volume 64,
15 from volume 65, 31 from volume 66, and 16 from volume 67.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The National Gallery of Art issued during the year the following
publications:

Catalogue of a collection of water-color paintings of the Grand Canyon of the
Colorado, Yellowstone National Park, Yosemite Valley, Zion National Park,
Utah National Park, and the Monterey Coast of California, by Mr. Gunnar
Widforss. On view in the National Gallery, December, 1924, to January,
1925. 4 pp.

Catalogue of a collection of busts of prominent personages in bronze and terra
cotta, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-McCormack. On view in the National Gallery,
December 16, 1924, to January 16, 1925. 4 pp.

Catalogue of a collection of portraits and studies in different techniques, by
Leo Katz, of Vienna, Austria. On view in the National Gallery, January 16
to February 15, 1925. 4 pp.

Catalogue of recent miniature portraits by Alyn Williams, P. R. M. 8. (presi-
dent Royal Miniature Society), and portrait busts in bronze and plaster,
relief portraits, medallions, carvings in precious and semiprecious stones,
and some great seals, by Cecil Thomas, R. M. S. On view in the National
Gallery, March 3 to March 22, 1925. § pp.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau of American Ethnology is under
the direction of Mr. Stanley Searles, editor. During the year, there
were published two annual reports and one bulletin as follows:

Thirty-eighth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: An Introductory Study
of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana Indians (Roth). vii, 748 pp.,
183 pls., 341 figs. "

Thirty-ninth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: The Osage Tribe: The
Rite of Vigil (La Flesche). 636 pp., 17 pls., 4 figs. (Received July 13,
1925.)

Bulletin 78. Handbook of the Indians of California (Kroeber). xviii, 995 pp.,
83 pls., 78 figs. (Received July 17, 1925.)

At the close of the year there were in press or in preparation three
annual reports as follows:

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Mythical Origin of the
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox
Indian Woman; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs; Notes on
the Fox Society Known as “Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buf-
falo”’; The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as “The Singing
Around Rite.’ (Michelson. )

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Salish Basketry (Boas).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious beliefs
and medical practices of the Creek Indians (Swanton).

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume IT, Parts I and II, of the annual report for 1919 and
the supplemental volume to the report for 1921, entitled “ Writings
in American History,” were issued during the year. The annual
reports for 1920, 1921, and 1922, and the supplemental volume to
the report for 1922 were in press at the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the
National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, on December 8,
1924.

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re-
ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts offered
to the Institution and its branches. Five meetings were held during
the year and 75 manuscripts acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. True, Editor.

Dr. Cuartes D, Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1925

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the following Government bureaus in the administrative charge of
the Smithsonian Institution: The National Museum, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Condition of the endowment fund July 1, 1925

The sum of $1,000,000, deposited in the Treasury of the United
States under act of Congress, is part of a permanent endowment
fund which includes the original Smithson fund and additions
accumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to
time. Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom,
when so required, are invested in approved securities. ‘The several
specific funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows:

Consolidated fund

PANU CTS VaR UL ENC se Se en a eM ee ee eT a cS pe he $32, G69. 55
Wisin deer Gye acon ttln Ce es a ne ee Ns eee ee 62, 272. 93
UST Gy sgSkeNes ES SANTO UNG CO a eS Eager ie OE ee its. D8). 09
@ Bataan siraa pica Ee a ee 35, 000. 00
Hamilton und eee Me et estas Flee oh 2 500. 00
Caroline PEentyatwnde aos sa eS a Se et i gS U, 2 SR
Hodgkins: generalifund=_=-- 222 ei tage di 37, 275. 00
Bruce sHughesilund 222 Os = et bere ey eel pes seu Shel. 889% 90
Morris Moeb tun die 2 ss meee ee Eeshep lh say 0 4) Dubey yo. 5, 814. 00
huey. and: George: W..eoore fund: 2) = es ei ey 14, 183. 14
AGdisonyT: Reidthund =~. 22. Gasiil oy ss tom lewa et See pest h 6, 639. 16
EEC GS hun Claes Ce the se Se ir al ine eg = 357, 34
GeorzestiiaSantond pti 0 er EE he) aang barat : 615. 32
DIOL GH SON wht eee een bee ara) ee ee Hah Ss pL 1, 468. 74

Totalwconsolidated - fund 225 22 ee ee 2138, 386. 50
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund________________ 11, 520. 00

123
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.
Volume II, Parts I and II, of the annual report for 1919 and

the supplemental volume to the report for 1921, entitled “ Writings nt
in American History.” were issued during the year. The annual }
reports for 1920, 1921, and 1922, and the supplemental volume to y

the report for 1922 were in press at the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN To

REVOLUTION Y

The manuscript of the Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the
National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans- Inst
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, on December 8, pit:
1924, Ue |

tlona.
SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION Todo

‘otal
° . . 1 . . Catal
The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian -

. . ° . . . ° ror h
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re- we

ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts offered
to the Institution and its branches. Five meetings were held during
the year and 75 manuscripts acted upon.
Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Editor. State
Dr. Cuaries D. Watcort, find
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Morris

Luey

Addisoq

2 Sr ge se

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1925

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the following Government bureaus in the administrative charge of
the Smithsonian Institution: The National Museum, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Condition of the endowment fund July 1, 1925

The sum of $1,000,000, deposited in the Treasury of the United
States under act of Congress, is part of a permanent endowment
fund which includes the original Smithson fund and additions
accumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to
time. Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom,
when so required, are invested in approved securities. The several
specific funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows:

Consolidated fund

AVCL Yee === ee ee ee aS pace es WTS MS re ns a Spee ee 2 ae SOO GON DD
Virginia, Purdy Bacon fund = ee ME Ne Se ee es EO SEG OA a. 93
ucy Hes Balngdehundes = 2s ss es De See AuParyh Sera ti F apg sah 1, 528. 09
Chamberlainvenmg hs] es eee Soll EP IR OOO: OO
Hamilton fund 2222. oa. bapa ees REND, 8 hs 4 500. 00
Caroline vreniy Maine AS Se ee el ete es 12 2St oo
Hodgkins! generaliinnd 22 te tease Lape ed 2 pie 37, 275. 00
Bruce Hughesiiund 2s 2 ee eng i ofa ls en ABU SROT OO
IMorriss loeb ium dies 2s eee $e SIA 00
Pucyaierand George WW. Loore fund) Le igh VE aE eet 14, 183. 14
Addison CT: Retdetund = -— 222 Aetenes Toned Bee UEAY plete fh 6, 689. 16
PENCCH Shiri ae ume= pe ay a a eae lh 2S ee eee Mele ee ee lg 357, 34
GCCOrgeerHiaNanrond givin dese sce Le 2 Pe a BS ets 615. 32
IG SONeL UG ee a a Site stone oe epee ONL Re 9d 1, 468. 74

otal consolidated. fund! 2.5 eee eae ee OT GO)
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund__________________ 11, 520. 00

99

124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The total amount of dividends and interest received by the Insti-
tution from the Freer estate during the year for all purposes was

$931,073.64.

The itemized report of the auditor, The Capital Audit Co., certified

public accountants, is filed in the office of the secretary.
DETAILED SURVEY OF FINANCIAL OPERATIONS

Parent fund

Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1924.______________ $4, 476. 59

Receipts:
Income, consisting of interest and receipts from mis-

cellaneous sources available for general purposes— $57, 606. 84

International exchanges, repayments to the Insti-

GGON <2 ee: See EEE CAT det ee eee eee 4, 90Q. 22
Total weceiptsse<h ts! ss ce ee Fhe ey iy A ea 62, 507. 06
Total’ resources for general Purposesa 2s a eee 66, 9838. 65
General expenditures:
Care and repair of buildings --222 2h) Se ee eae $7, 576. 16
HorMitnre and: dixtuneses- os. ee ee ee eee ee 981. 16
General ‘administration’ == 225" 2 ae ee eee 24, 337. 63
ibranyet.: 6) se a ee Ee Se ee ea ee 3, 1838. 47
Publications (comprising preparation, printing, and
GkStributiony) 32-2 tet 8 ee hee ee 15, 003. 68
Researches) ands exploratlong) eee 4, 774. 77
Internationals exch an ces = eee ee 4,114. 33°
Total general expenditures... 2. 2b 6 5 se ee ee 59, 921. 20
Balanee June ‘$0; 1925 ee ee es ee Oe WE SERS ERE 7, 062. 45

Funds for specific objects, including payment and return of funds advanced for
field expenses and other temporary transactions during the year

Balance on hand or in time deposits July 1, 19242". = = ee $66, 854. 84

Receipts:
AVeRyvatiun (aso 22 as ee ee eS er $3, 416. 42
Wikeinia Purdy bacon nung = 22s ee ee ee 12; 009. 52
EMCYGE. (Galng shun 92 sees es 2S eee eee ee eee 118. 20
Hrances, Lea Chamberlain funds. 2, 758. 00
BredtG. Cottrell fund: =a a eee Sees 3, 750. 00
Hudowment fund) (general). - es eee 210. 00
Endowment campaign expense fund________________ 2, 000. 00
Rar Hastexpedition: found! ooo a a ee 2, 000. 00
DavidsC...Graham. fund 222) = eee eee 200. 00
Dr. W. L. Abbott Haitian botanical expedition______ 500. 00
Hamilton fund) oe Oe er ead a 189. 40
PES rim an trust a cl ee ee 12, 546. 25
@aroline; Henry stung 226 2 ee eee 96. 18
Hodgkins fund; ‘specitie=2 3-2) 2 eee 7, 015. 40
Bruce Huches funds ee eee eee 1, O87. 44
MGETIS "deb finde ne eee eee eee 3, 065. 79
National Gallery of Art building plans fund________ 264. 55
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 125

Receipts—Continued.

North American Wild Flowers publication fund____ $45, 576. 84
Luey T. and George W. Poore fund__--~--____----~- 2, 967. OS
WACK WSL aie ACE TEAST VG 1. tb U0 [ee RN a eee 151183523
Researchesmin’ paleontologyaa=—— 4 Sat eee 1, 409. 09
Red OVSYe YS tend ENA 0 [ees ope a Le ee ee ee 62. 98
JOuMeeACe I OGDhino hun d Sea ee ee ee 28, 278. 15
Georcec be Sankordeiuingd ease see ee eee 114. 46
Smithsonian scientific series fund _________________- 8, 250. 00
SSW all OSes eee eee ree en el eee ee A ee Sea eee 300. 00
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund___-__-_-__ 720. 00
Retnd sor temporary ad Vanesa ee 8, 163. 95

MOGAleTE CCID tSr ons Se thas eee Ee ee SE lo $148, 252. 88

TOES LOS ENT OND SPR ae NN i a PA eee reer 215, 107. 72

Hxpenditures:

PS STEN A TROD EKO MTG (SIST HEY 0 [eas Meee ee ee bo, 112. 03
Virginia Purdy Bacon fund, invested and expended_ 12, 410. 59
POY eb Tayi seb tova lL abe (elo Se 178. 51
Chamberlain fund, for specimens, ete_____________ 2, 048. 24
Far East expedition fund, expended_______________ 2, 693. 62
Harriman trust fund, for researches and specimens_ 12, 026. 09
Caroline Henry fund, invested____...--_-._.____.__ 149. 33
Eodskins: funds tor TeSeanches= se ee 6, 309. 32
iBruceshHuches stund. investedsa = ee 1, 826. 28
Morris sWoebstund sexpendeds a) 2 ee 3, 583. 68
National Gallery of Art building plans fund_______ 10, 005. 00
North American Wild Flowers publication fund, ex-

VOCE ONG KeN tesa ik a oS LO Ee Be ae 33, 194. 84
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund, invested and ex-

DONG eee fe wel yes Mss Pikes ete eR 8 eee ee ey 999. 55
ACdISOnNeh sReigatunds invested == oot. 1, 746. 16
Researches in paleontology, expended______________ 1, 179. 48
Research Corporation, rocket investigation_________ 750. 00
Riiees und winVvesteda—" =.= Ne 89. 34
John A. Roebling funds, Solar research, ete., ex-

PENCE GEA. Ws es eas ree heer MA 2 dh pee See 27, 400. 21
W. A. Roebling mineral fund, expended____________ 373. 03
George H. Sanford fund, invested_--_.-______-____-_ 109. 32
Swelesstund) forispecimens= sas 22 ae eee 356. 32
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund, expended_ 896. 24
Temporary advances for field expenses, ete_________ 6, 902. 35

Rovalh Expendlpunes see ects a ee Se 128, 334. 53

Balance. Juness0s O25. oh ee Sa 86, 773. 19

Charles L. Freer bequest

Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1924___________ $31, 233. 73
Receipts:
Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous receipts_____________-_ 231, 073. 64

PUOURIIR CSO UL CES ae amen ne te er oe ae Se 262, 307. 37 .
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Iixpenditures:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries, pur-
chase of art objects, field expenses, and inci-

dentaisS- Ser <8. ee Se ee ee $99, 744. 53
Investments in sinking fund, including interest____ 84, 445. 73
Total ,expengi¢nres=— 22s Asa Re eee ee $184, 190. 26
Balance June 30? *19202 2 2 oe Se ee see SEE dAMP s TSALT AL
SUMMARY
Totalspalances of all funds) uly a 1O24"= sae ee ee 102, 565. 16
Receipts during year ending June 30, 1925:
Parent fund: torzgeneral ‘expenses: 2 ee eee 62, 507. 06
Revenue and principal of funds for specific objects, except Freer
DGQUIES GAAS ee ee» A ek See 148, 252. 88
reer! bequest == =~ se 2 it a ee i ee ae 231, 073. 64
PRS VCS A a gn ee eg ll Sg a oy ae 544, 398. 74
Expenditures :
Generalvespenses Of tie LNSthb itl On == see eres eee Seen ee 59, 921. 20
Specific objects, except Freer bequest_-_________- _____________ 128, 334. 53
FUR COT ED CU CSE ata oe oe ere eee ee oe a ee ee ee 184, 190. 26
MoralebalancesiOr all fonds) Gilneas Oh OB eee ee 171, 952. 75
Hi Re) 3 Lee eS ee eee Oe Sere ee ee ee ees 544, 398. 74

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In some instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source, together with other similar items, has resulted in a total
of $1,610.15.

The following appropriations for the Government bureaus under
the administrative charge of the Smithsonian Institution were made
by Congress for the fiseal year 1925:

Bureau: Appropriation
International ixchangees = Ae Series Pe eT eee eee $49, 550. 00
PLINOTT CHIN TE CENTI OL OS ere ee ea aa a ees 57, 160. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific iteratres se = oe 8, 861. 66
Astrophysical Observatory2. = = ee ee a eee 21, 580. 00
GOAN AO ASSISEDU EE SOCLETE Yaa eee eee ee ee 6, 000. 00

Additional fire protection £22223 2 or eke 2s ea ae eee 8, 500. 06
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE

Bureau—Continued.
National Museum—

Muirnituresand: fixtures =e
Heatinesandeichting 22 ess sees
Preservation of collections___________

NatronalhGalleryeotVArta2 ss
National Zoological Park__.--___________
Printinesang binging =sess2) ss ee ee

Respectfully submitted.

COMMITTEE E27

Appropriation

Epes PS $21, 800. 00
Seek See 77, 560. 00
pee Pee, 434, 482. 00
Fie oes Ol 11, 000. 00
eset eae 2, 000. 00
Eee aeien 450. 00

———_—— $547, 292. 00

ee eee aes 20, 158. 00
ee ee ea See 151, 487. 00
ee ee ee ees 90, 000. 00

ee ee a ee 960, 588. 66

Henry WHirte,

Frepertic A. Deano,

R. Warton Moore,
Haecutive Committee.
ia

*
ae

4 painted

ae oa

ee
oie ink 4 hee
Fi ties

z ‘ 5 ee oe,
Se a hay
= ie aT

» 2 -
iA
, os
>
- 7 ad
if 4 .
; ri
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE
30, 1925

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 11, 1924

Present: The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator George Wharton
Pepper; Representative Albert Johnson; Representative R. Walton
Moore; the Hon. George Gray; the Hon. Henry White; Mr. Charles
F. Choate, jr.; Mr. Robert S. Brookings; Mr. Frederic A. Delano;
and the secretary, Dr. Charles D. Walcott.

DEATH OF SENATOR LODGE

The secretary announced the death, on November 9, 1924, of
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, who was first appointed a Regent on
January 6, 1890, as a Member of the House of Representatives, serv-
ing until January 25, 1893; and again as a Member of the Senate,
on December 7, 1905, serving continuously until his death, aggregat-
ing a total of 22 years as a member of the board.

The following resolutions were then adopted:

Whereas, the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, having
learned with profound sorrow of the death, on November 9, 1924, of Henry
Cabot Lodge, United States Senator from Massachusetts and a Regent of
the Institution for 22 years: Be it

Resolved, That the board desire to record here their sense of the irrepar-
able loss sustained by the Institution in the passing away of their distin-
guished colleague, whose keen, constructive interest in the affairs of the
Institution led him to place his broad knowledge and large experience at
its service at all times. Senator Lodge’s fame as a scholar, citizen, and
statesman is too well known to require mention here. He was an outstanding
figure in the Nation, and his death is deeply deplored.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the board
and that a copy thereof be transmitted to our late associate’s family.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS

The secretary announced that under date of December 2, the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate had appointed Senator Reed Smoot
as a Regent to succeed Senator Lodge, deceased.

Also that he had received the resignation of Senator McCormick
as a Regent, which he had transmitted to the President pro tempore
of the Senate who had appointed Senator George Wharton Pepper
to fill the vacancy on December 8.

129
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE

The board adopted a resolution providing for the expenditure in
the usual manner of the income of the Institution during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1926.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRY

The secretary brought before the board a petition from the Na-
tional Museum of Engineering and Industry, urging the setting
aside of a specified plot of ground south of the Smithsonian Build-
ing on which to erect a museum building; adding that the matter
had received the attention of the executive committee.

A full discussion upon the various phases of the proposed project
ensued, after which the board adopted resolutions expressing its
sympathy with the proposal and its willingness to take definite
steps when sufficient funds to cover the initial cost involved had
been deposited with the Smithsonian Institution by the National
Museum of Engineering and Industry.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

The secretary submitted in printed form the annual report of the
executive committee, showing the financial condition of the Institu-
tion at the close of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE

Solar radiation researches.—This work has been conducted for several
years by Assistant Secretary Abbot at stations on Montezuma Mountain, Chile,
and on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz. The operations are financed by an annual
grant of $5,000 from the Hodgkins fund of the Smithsonian Institution and
through the generosity of a public-spirited citizen, Mr. John A. Roebling.

Freer sinking fund.—The permanent committee’s last report mentions the
establishment of a sinking fund for the purpose of safeguarding the principal
and income of the Freer Foundation for Oriental Art. Under it the income
of the Freer bequest in excess of 6 per cent on the value of the foundation at
the time of Mr. Freer’s death is to be reinvested in high-class securities and
real-estate mortgages until an amount equal to the original foundation is
reached. The amount thus invested to date is $153,463.75.

Consolidated fund.—Under the organic act the sum authorized to be depos-
ited in the United States Treasury at 6 per cent interest as the “ Smithson
fund” is limited to $1,000,000. This limit was reached in 1917, and bequests,
gifts, and interest earnings in excess of this amount have been constituted a
consolidated fund, which is invested in securities approved by your permanent
committee. This fund now totals $213,386.50.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The fourth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art Commission was
held December 9, 1924.

The annual report of the secretary of the commission for 1924 calls attention
to the installation during the year of a collection of World War portraits in
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 131

the Natural History Building. A list recently made of the portraits in oil and
pastel now in possession of the Institution and in part available for assem-
blage in the portrait gallery, numbers upward of 400,

The desirability of improving the standard of the portraits of personages of
national distinction, which in time might be included in the National Portrait
Gallery, was considered, but no definite action was taken.

The preliminary plans for the proposed National Gallery Building as pre-
pared by Mr. Platt, the architect, were considered.

The very important problem of the inclusion in the building of collections
both of art and history received attention, and the view prevailed that it would
be advantageous, at least for a time, to have the two in the same building
but distinctly separated.

The chairman submitted the resignation of Mr. Edwin H. Blashfield, and it
was voted to recommend Mr. E. ©. Tarbell to the Board of Regents as his
successor.

The secretary of the commission announced the expiration of the three-year
terms of the following members of the commission: Messrs. John H. Lodge,
James Parmelee, and E. W. Redfield, and their election for four years was
recommended by the commission.

Then followed the reelection of the present officers of the commission and
also of the members of the executive and advisory committees for the ensuing
year.

On motion, the board accepted the report and adopted the following
resolution :

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
accepts with regret the resignation of Mr. E. H. Blashfield as a member of the
National Gallery of Art Commission: elects Mr. Edmund ©. Tarbell for the
remainder of Mr. Blashfield’s term, namely, to December 14, 1927; reelects
Messrs. John E. Lodge, James Parmelee, BH. W. Redfield, and Mr. Daniel Chester
French as members for the full term of four years.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

In submitting his annual report of the operations of the Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924, the secretary said that
since the last annual meeting of the Rezents on December 13, 1923, a
total of 110 publications have been issued by the Institution and the
Government branches in its administrative charge. Of this num-
ber 40 were issued by the Institution, 67 by the ‘National Museum,
and 3 by the Bureau of American Ethnology. It is by means of
these various series of publications, together with exhibits, lectures,
radio talks, and correspondence, that the Institution carries out one
of its primary objects, the “diffusion of knowledge among men.”
The publications are distributed free to libraries, scientific and edu-
cational institutions, and ‘interested individuals throughout the
world.

The Smithsonian Annual Report continues to attract widespread
popular interest. These reports have been issued two years late
since the World War, but Congress has provided an additional
amount to enable the Institution to bring out two in one year, and at
the present time the report for 1923 is SA for paging and all the
galleys of the report for 1924 have been received from the printer.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ADJOURNED MEETING, JANUARY 5, 1925

Present: The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator A. Owsley Stanley ;
Representative Albert Johnson; Representative R. Walton Moore;
Representative Walter H. Newton; Mr. Robert S. Brookings; Mr.
Frederic A. Delano; and the secretary, Dr. Charles D. Walcott.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

The secretary read a letter from Mr. John E. Lodge expressing the
grateful acknowledgment of his family for the resolutions adopted
by the Board of Regents on December 11, 1924, on the death of his
father, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, a Regent of the Institution.

INCREASE OF ENDOWMENT

The executive committee reported that it had carefully considered
a plan submitted by a New York firm for increasing the endowment
of the Institution, and had received the opinion of the Attorney Gen-
eral that there was no legal impediment in the way of engaging the

firm for this purpose.
The board adopted a resolution giving the permanent committee

power to act in the matter.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANS FOR NEW BUILDING FOR NA-
TIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Mr. Delano read the following report:

To the Board of Regents.

GENTLEMEN: Your committee appointed by the board on February 14, 1924,
for the purpose of collaborating with the architect in the preparation of plans
for the proposed National Gallery of Art Building, met at the Smithsonian
Institution on October 28, 1924.

Mr. Charles A. Platt, the architect, who had recently returned from a tour
of the art galleries abroad, submitted preliminary sketch plans for the build-
ing. These comprised plans of the three floors with sections, and a detailed
drawing of the south front. Plans of a number of European galleries, drawn
to the same scale, were presented for comparison, and details of lighting
adaptation to spaces and various other requirements of the structure were
considered. Mr. Platt explained that it was expected that granite would
be employed in the construction, and that the building, which will be 320 by
570 feet, would contain possibly 10,000,000 cubie feet. He said also that if
required the plans could be ready for the beginning of the work within six
months.

The provisional plans as presented were approved by the committee as a
basis for future study.

Respectfully submitted.
HenRkyY WHITE, Chairman,

FREDERIC A. DELANO,
HERBERT ADAMS,
GARI MELCHERS,
’ / J. H. GeEst,
CHARLES D. WALcoTT (ex officio),
Special Committee.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 133
REMISSION OF FREER INCOME TAX

The secretary called attention to the passage by the Senate of
H. R. No. 8100 for the relief of Mr. Freer’s estate, by which taxes
to the amount of $74,889.56 have been remitted by the Government,

OPENING OF MUSEUM BUILDINGS ON SUNDAYS

The secretary brought up the question of the opening of all of
the Museum buildings on Sundays, stating that it was now impos-
sible to do so owing to the few watchmen allowed by the appropria-
tions. The Natural History (or new) Building was open from 1.30
to 4.30, but the other buildings were closed. He thought that if
five more watchmen were provided all the buildings could be open
on Sunday, at least for the afternoon.

In this connection he also spoke of the few visitors on Christmas
and New Year’s Days, and proposed the closing of the buildings on
those days, so as to give the watchmen an opportunity for rest
which was now denied them.

After discussion, resolutions were adopted covering these matters.

76041—26——10
, -s :
oy eed, ies 2g

- . SM RS os ee

ES OP ae | AAA t8

Mehaie 4 Bann

/ Me ted Stdgarouttt
Sens biwoy exiting lt ll byte
HOOMISEER im x ‘you Sopot tt
nines ay eutiio toa yaoi
© speyseggeriladivncd gall Yay poicgoneoc |
Serer as ce on
Seiae abet iw Done ies a cee tit SIA 1

weave etoknboryt ae
ine mio St aarti “a akin ru LEAS pe at

an a

* bea w Ad Pea es Os par whet “te
: o~ a : _ 1
Ey ay ¥ ai “i

vs indy eon ubwe Ry wean rons = lh Sa ee
Pa ed peed oS inet ¥
eee RM pen ananttnw BPD tan: vee fhs4 init me, eciehate sae pred
ota -, “ut? ar ae only i Bette * hits 7 AV. % 3 hey, wel Ree 24 lin we eth Mah uf ; é:

\ ey “i he oct feet has Tiamat PID aes Set ate kstarcatlan bao, a4 bes f;

a ACA hate: Wale, PLD ay eo. et iy!
ANY, Easy Pe. Lae RA as ear vor me s+ ica cane nie a
ie) vied er ee eo on a aie AA Wrha tate reis th HHOAAY amet
Als aS Ani aU OE EA . Hacdiveatnck wilh hee age a
Chace > < Palade rae) oath ale Oe vie alee een
Dy Set bau soulia’re kde Apia! bys oe on RDO ee Meher
pie ntl (Sap Le Rte BAe ‘op Cah eer Ope ia ae te geet atiaotinegt
adie: MO TUE, nica fant yak! aeteae: AM Sew
teh" ta) iy ane eiyha tz rate ay ete “dl aay, + hy alts wives, rte ete bi ae -
‘ia: Cngt, yew Speeds in, yp aie ge SUR: cult Goat. a te a
cuphil wap: Fone, pee COREE” Tet reas Soe Fi Magalies: at ThE ye we a
;

UN sf
Pe) cate Ti. PIF he, SR ep ond. ae oe ite c mel és ¥
bet, Orr turn wy 7
ei warees “hunt.”

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1925

135
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrrat Avrenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them orig-
inal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1925.

136
SPIRAL NEBULA AND THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE?

By C. Wirtz

University Observatory, Kiel

1. The inquiry into the structure of space lies within the province
of astronomy. For this purpose observation will give us the position
of numerous physical points which must serve as the skeleton upon
which we model our conception. Observation gives us knowledge of
the motions of the heavenly bodies. The orbits derived from these
motions should serve as the basis for some conclusions as to the
character of the space in which these bodies are imbedded. Several
decades ago the distances measured by astronomy out into the world
of the stars were too small to be expected to show any divergencies of
structure from ordinary Euclidean conceptions. Within the rela-
tively small solar system all motions take place so accurately in
accordance with the laws of Newton and Euclidean geometry that
no modifications are necessary.

This is remarkable and comforting. In the solar system the ap-
parent movements are rapid and great with reference to the lapse
of time during which we may make measures. Accordingly, the
numerous complexities of the motions have been recognized and
explained. On the other hand with the stars the changes of position
are so slow that observations for 2,000 years show no divergences of
their paths from straight, uniform motion. The stars of the heavens
behave to us as would, our planetary system to an observer living
only a few seconds; that is, for such an observer the planets would
show no deviation from a uniform rectilinear motion. Yet we must
not push the analogy further for he could from such observations
correctly construct the plan of the solar system.

In every way we become convinced that the dimensions of our
solar system with its known structure and rapid motions are too
restricted to help us in our problem of the structure of space. In-

1 Reprinted (by special permission of the director of Scientia) from the issue of Novem-
ber, 1925, of Scientia. International Review of scientific synthesis, edited by Eugenio
Rignano, published by eight publishers: Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore; Williams &
Norgate, London; Felix Alcan, Paris; Nicola Zanichelli, Bologna; Akad, Verlagsgesell-
schaft m. b. H., Leipzig; Ruiz Hermanos, Madrid; Renascenca Portiguesa, Porto; The
Maruzen Co., Tokyo,

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

stinctively we turn to those objects to which we ascribe the greatest
distances from us. We hope that in the light coming to us from
these distant objects we may find something serving as testimony
of the long path it has traversed through this space. Speaking
metaphorically, from the dust of the journey we would infer some-
thing of the nature and direction of the path as well as the region
through which the journey lay.

2. Which, then, are the most distant bodies? Through a process of
elimination we are quickly left with only two possible kinds of bodies
which mostly or wholly le without that part of space which is filled
with stars in varying number. Our sun is somewhat near the
center of this universe of stars. The boundary of it we may prac-
tically place where the star density is one one-hundreth that close
to our sun. To realize the vanishingly small density in which the
matter, collected in the form of stars exists, we may think of them
as grains of sand so scattered that each grain is distant about 100
kilometers (62 miles) from its nearest neighbor. This shows to
scale the relative emptiness of space. The limit of our universe of
stars as above defined lies so far away (30,000 light-years) that it
takes 30,000 years for light to come from the boundary to us. Be-
yond, outside the bounds of our stellar system (galaxy) lie numerous
elobular star clusters and spiral nebule—not all the clusters but all
of the nebule. 4

How may we obtain an idea or measure of these immensely great
distances? Direct trigonometric triangulation naturally can give
us no information since we have to do with annual parallaxes giving
angles as small as 0.000005 angular seconds, and indeed less. The
motions of the spiral nebulz give us the answer and a riddle at the
same time. For 15 years we have known that the lines in the spectra
of the spiral nebule show shifts which have been interpreted as Dop-
pler displacements, a physical interpretation which is taken to indi-
cate and measure radial velocities of the nebule. These velocities are
much greater than those generally found for the fixed stars. They
may be of the order of 2,000 kilometers (1,250 miles) per second.
At present radial velocities have been determined for some 50 spiral
nebule. These have already been analyzed to discover interesting
systematic characteristics in the nebular movements.

All apparent motions of the heavenly bodies are made up of two
components: Their own or “ peculiar motion” and a mirroring in
them of the motion of the observer.? The latter varies for different
directions relative to our movement and with the distance of the

2Norpn BY THE TRANSLATOR.—An analogous motion may be observed from the window
of a rapidly moving train. ‘The trees of the middle distance seem to recede, while the
more distant ones move along with the train.

SPIRAL NEBULE—WIRTZ 139

body from the observer. It is possible by combination in a mathe-
matical discussion of all the motions of the various bodies to find
the motion of the observer relative to the “centroid” (center of
mean positions) of the moving bodies. When we seek this datum
from the motions of the spiral nebulz we reach an unexpected result.
The “ apex,” or goal of the motion of the sun, has no apparent rela-
tionship with that found from a similar discussion of the motions
of the stars. This apex, determined from the nebular motions, lies
not far from the pole of the earth’s orbit. There is a further and
not less unexpected result. The velocity of the sun relative to the
centroid of the spiral nebule is no longer the commonly found value
from various discussions of stellar motions, 20 kilometers (12 miles)
per second, but about 700 kilometers (435 miles) per second. It can
not be the sun alone which is thus moving relatively to the spiral
nebule. For such a great velocity would have its image in the sur-
rounding stars (parallactic motion) ; such is not present.

3. We are therefore forced to the conclusion that our whole galaxy
of stars, the milky way family as a body, is moving with this great
velocity relative to the centroid of the spiral nebule. A further
conclusion results: The milky way system and the spiral nebule
must be considered as related systems—that is, the spiral nebule are
distant galaxies and our galaxy or milky-way system, viewed from
the spiral nebulz, would have the appearance of a cosmical nebula.

There is another surprise. If we eliminate the known motion
of the sun from the observed motion of the spiral nebule we would
expect to find, according to the underlying assumptions of the pro-
cedure, that in the mean they would be zero. But that is not at
all the case. We find that the system of spiral nebule tends to
scatter outwards into space. Literally stated, the spirals are moving
outwards from the present position of the observer with a velocity
of about 800 kilometers (497 miles) per second.

We can obtain another measure of the distance of these nebule,
although of small accuracy. The goal of the solar motion may be
found not only from a discussion of the movements of the nebulee
in a radial direction but also from their movements at right angles
to this, their angular displacements. The natural lack of sharpness
in the outlines of these hazy objects militates against the accuracy of
position determinations, so that the proper motions of any individual
nebula can not be indicated with any accuracy. But that does not
exclude the determination of a statistical mean indicating the part
of movement of all of them, which is produced by the motion of the
observer himself. If we combine this uncertain but at any rate too
great value of the angular motion with the surer value of the
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

radial motion, there can be obtained a lower limit for the distance
of the spiral nebule. There results a value of 80,000 light-years.
If we are convinced that the spirals are distant milky-way systems,
there is available yet another method which allows us to push yet
further the lower limit of their distance. New stars (nove) appear
from time to time in certain spiral nebule. We can compare these
with those which appear in our own milky way. Let us assume
that their greatest brightness is the same no matter in which system
they occur. This leads to an estimate of 600,000 light-years for
the nearest spiral nebulae. This further signifies that their linear
dimensions are of the same order as those of our own galaxy.

4. Now, convinced that the light from the spirals must travel this
immensely long journey through space to reach us, let us recall
our earlier query: Does this light bring us in its aspects any trace
of the structure of this space which does not correspond to the
structure of infinite Euclidean space?

Perhaps. First let us consider the apparent dispersion outwards,
relative to our position of observation, of the matter concentrated
in these nebule. In this in itself remarkable phenomenon we will
find something further to strike us. We will probably not be greatly
wrong if, as a first approximation, we ascribe the same linear dimen-
sions to all of the spiral nebule. Then in their apparent angular
extent we have a measure of their individual distances. Using this
assumption as the basis of our inquiry we reach a startling result:
With increasing distance of the nebule the observed outwardly
directed velocity increases, and it increases at a rapid rate, such that
when the distance increases tenfold the radial velocity increases
about 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) per second. This must mean
that the farther away the object is in the depths of Euclidean
space the more rapid is the dispersion of its matter into that space.

Is this interpretation of the observed facts, which assumes infinite
space, necessary? Naturally not. There are no absolutely necessary
descriptions of observed facts. We should try to formulate that
description which is the most satisfying in the sense that it explains
a greater number of isolated phenomena than the older conception.

~

5. There is a structure of space in which the phenomena which we
have observed in the spiral nebulw will be accurately reproduced.
This structure occurs in the cosmology of the Dutch astronomer,
W. de Sitter. The world of de Sitter is a four-dimensional con-
tinuum of space and time, forming the surface of a sphere in five
dimensional coordinates. This sounds richly complex, indeed incom-
prehensible. It is not possible to represent it graphically. But
representation is a product of our imagination, knowledge of our
SPIRAL NEBULE—WIRTZ 141

reason. The understanding can well conceive what our imagina-
tion can not picture. That is the case here. Man, bodily con-
structed in three dimensions, can not picture things in four or more
dimensions. Nevertheless, the following conceit may help us better
to understand the space of de Sitter.

If we eliminate two dimensions of a four-dimensional space, the
latter reduces to a surface. But what is the character of this surface?

We can take in at a glance the phenomena which could be under-
stood by a being of two dimensions living on the surface of a sphere.
From these phenomena he could infer the mathematical characteris-
tics of his cosmical space. This being would recognize the extended
but not infinite character of his sphere of existence. Further, he
would recognize something which is really the radius of the three-
dimensional sphere upon whose surface he is constrained to exist
and which might become an object for research. It is the radius
of curvature of his world space. He can talk of it, he can determine
a linear measure of it. A spatial representation in three dimen-
sions will never be possible to him who can know only two dimen-
sions. ‘The two-dimensional observer, carrying out certain direct
measures upon this surface-of-a-sphere limited universe, will find
that the value of his determinations of the number z will not be
constant. It will be found that it is dependent upon the greatness of
the circle, that it is always less than 3.14159, and that the value of x
which he finally decides upon will be the maximum limit toward
which all his values tend to approach.

The strange cosmos of de Sitter, reduced to two dimensions,
does not become such a simple surface-of-a-sphere world but one
lying on a hyperbola of revolution. Our physicist, confined upon
the surface of this hyperboloid, can make certain observations com-
parable to those of our real world. For instance, he will find that
the number of Archimedes is always less than our value of x. It may
be mentioned as remarkable that all the phenomena of probability
from which we may determine a value of will lead to a value which
is greater than the value found from Euclidean geometry. Taken by
itself this is possibly only a curiosity and might signify little.
Nevertheless certain modern astronomical phenomena can be given
an interpretation which points the same way.

This phenomenon occurs in de Sitter’s world, although its exist-
ence was not known at the time he constructed his cosmology (1917).
With increasing distance from the center of his coordinate system,
natural phenomena occur slower and slower, and of course all natural
clocks go likewise slower and slower. Especially is this true with
atomic vibrations. This decrease in vibration time can be measured
for it will be impressed upon the light coming to us. It means that
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

spectrum lines from distant sources must be shifted toward the red
even though the source is at rest. A particle once present in empty
space will be driven outward with an acceleration which increases
with the distance. In de Sitter’s world there are, therefore, two
causes for a shift of the spectrum lines toward the red—the general
dispersion of matter outwards toward the limits of space and the
slowing up of natural time apparent in all distant objects, even
though they are at rest, relative to the origin of coordinates.

Because of the symmetry of the formula expressing de Sitter’s
world, any desired point may be chosen for the zero point of co-
ordinates. ‘That means that there exists no difference in the
observed run of phenomena no matter what the point of observation,
even though at the boundary of de Sitter’s space.

Is it possible to obtain a measure of this slowing up of natural
processes at great distance? Yes, and it follows from de Sitter’s
theory that there is not only the shifting of the spectrum lines to
the red but also, as already noted, the increase of this shift with
the increasing distance of the object. These facts should occur in
the spiral nebule as follows: The radial movements outward (Dop-
pler displacement in spectrum) of the spiral nebulae must tend to
greater and greater positive values as the diameters of the nebulz
decrease.

A discussion of the observations gave a verification of the above
prediction. The cosmos of de Sitter allows yet other predictions,
but we will not discuss them all now. Suflice it to state that we
can determine the radius of curvature of the time-space cosmos of
de Sitter from phenomena which appear in the spiral nebule. The
curvature is small, its radius is of the order of 100 millions of light-
years. In his continual flow of time an object will never return
to the zero point of coordinates. Time is single valued and history
will not repeat itself. The cosmology of de Sitter furnishes a suffi-
cient description of the universe.

6. Our preceding discussion is based upon the observation of some
50 nebule which are bright enough for the measurement of the line
shifts in their spectra. Now there are about 20,000 definitely cata-
loged nebule, and the optical means of our present day should
render visible about 8,000,000. What new information may we
expect from all of these objects? Just as with the fixed stars, sta-
tistical discussions of their distribution, color, photometric measures,
etc., will lead to many valuable results.

We will now speak of only one interesting chapter—that relating
to the absorption of light in space. It is evidently very important,
for in a last analysis this absorption will play a very important
SPIRAL NEBULE—WIRTZ 143

and active part in our world picture. To be more definite, let
us suppose this absorption to be of the magnitude produced by that
of a thick meteorological fog. Then light coming from beyond a
certain distance will be completely extinguished. We could receive
no information from more distant bodies. Our universe would have
the following appearance: Matter would appear gathered in a spher-
ical star system; our point of outlook would be at its center. It is
perhaps disquieting when we remember that already humanity has
had to look at the universe in a new way. That was when it threw
away the geocentric conception which was a quasi realization of such
an absorption cosmos.

Some remarkable results have emerged from measures on the
absorption of light in space in which the stars are imbedded. In
numerous regions of the sky we see visually and on photographic
plates what may be called cosmic clouds. In other places stellar
counts reveal the existence of compact impenetrable masses of dust
situated at great distances and covering large tracts of the sky.
In the color of the stars a selective absorption is apparent, for the
more distant stars are redder. This property of absorption shows in
a remarkable way—stars in the richer regions are on the whole bluer
than where the stars are few. We conclude, ceteris paribus, that the
regions poor in stars are poor because the more distant stars are
hidden behind cloudy veils of small particles which we know selee-
tively transmit red light.

Likewise we encounter in all parts of the milky way traces of
both general and selective absorption. However, when we turn to
those parts of the sky where we suppose we see great distances out
into world space, all traces of both general and selective absorption
disappear. This is indicated by the globular star clusters which are
placed at some 10,000 to 300,000 light-years away.

7. Can we obtain any evidence of absorption from the spiral nebu-
le, the farthest of which may be situated millions of light-years dis-
tant? Apparently we can. In them we have surface pictures of great
diameter. The surface brightness of these objects can be determined
photometrically. This is a very important datum, for the surface
brightness should be independent of the distance if space is free of
absorption—that is, optically empty. If, instead of taking as our
measure of their individually unknown linear distances, we take
their apparent diameter, the surface brightness determined for a
great number of these bodies should show in a statistical mean no
relation to their apparent diameter. We have at our disposal the
surface brightness of more than 500 spirals. We find, in submitting
all these measures to the precise methods of statistical mathematics,
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

that there is a slight dependence of the surface brightness upon the
apparent diameters in the sense that the surface brightness slightly
decreases as the nebula is more distant. For the explanation of this
it is natural to have recourse to a general absorption in the space
traversed. It may be due to the weakening of the light in passing
through an extremely tenuous medium. ‘The selective absorption
necessarily bound with the phenomenon has not been demonstrated.
If we evaluate the amount of absorption, it is approximately such
that when the light passes through a space 3,000 light-years thick
the light is weakened 0.00001 magnitude, an amount too small to
be effective within our own galaxy.

Bizarre as it may seem, the limit of the system of spiral nebulz
is apparently accessible to our researches, which now extend about to
the confines of our stellar galaxy. We may consider that we are
approaching this limit if the number of new nebule discovered by
more and more powerful telescopes grows smaller and smaller, or at
any rate does not augment as the optical powers of our instruments
increase. We may add that the cumulation of nebular matter toward
the north pole of the milky way diminishes as we push farther out
into space toward the fainter and fainter nebule. Statistics relative
to the apparent distribution of the nebule lead to this result. Com-
parison with the relative distribution of the stars, determined by
similar means, leads to the conclusion that we should not look to the
spiral nebule as the birthplace of our stars.

There is a fact which fits with difficulty into the theory which
considers the spiral nebule as distant milky ways. That is the
complete independence of their surface brightness upon their ori-
entation. For, seen from the depths of space, our milky way would
appear five times as luminous seen edgewise as broadside on. Fur-
ther, the surface brightness of the milky way as a whole would be
small compared with that of the spiral nebule. The milky way sys-
tem is therefore exceptional, and its brightness places it at the lower
rank of its class and as an extreme in any scheme of the evolution
of spiral nebule. It is not in our power to say whether to place it
at the beginning or end of the evolution.

We see that what has been stated relative to several problems
which are connected with the spiral nebula, or in a more general way
with cosmical nebulee, leads us, literally and metaphorically, to the
limits of our knowledge and the confines of space, where reality
and fiction, where the physical world and the shadows of our
thought confound. Meanwhile neither this world nor science stop
there. There is the possibility of finding a response to ques-
SPIRAL NEBULE—WIRTZ 145

tions which agitate human thought and of formulating a sufficient
description of the genesis of the universe. It is yet too soon for our
perceptions, and their interpretations still contain contradictions.
But we may be sure that as long as contradictions exist our intelli-
gences and our imaginations will work for their solution. The con-
tradictions in our conceptions of the universe are the best guarantees
for the life of science and the future progress of knowledge.

Only error is life.
—F., Schiller—Cassandra.
Fs yc ae
os 4 Cikaidedl vk
f] i

: :
; J‘ 7
SG ed ee Boh aa be:

Pe OF hy

ian ta, 2

IMMENSITIES OF TIME AND SPACE?

By A. Visert Douctas, M. B. E., M. Sc.

Within the last twelve months three workers in the realms of
mathematical astronomy and cosmogony have brought their re-
searches to conclusions of tremendous importance and widespread
interest. So closely are their problems interwoven that it may prove
stimulating to consider in some detail the aim of each investigation,
the line of argument, and the outstanding results thus far achieved.

STAR’S MASS AND LUMINOSITY

Last year there was given to the Royal Astronomical Society by
Prof. A. S. Eddington, F. R. S., a paper which has aroused great in-
terest among astronomers
the world over. For many
years Professor Eddington

=2
has been investigating the 8 ok
radiative properties of a % 2
giant star—that is, a star & 4
of gigantic size and low 4 6
density, so low thatitcould 3 8
be considered as obeying g'

what in physics are known

0-406 08 O 02 0-406 08 10 12
as the “ perfect gas” laws. Logarithm of Mass
These investigations led
him to the conclusion that
the total luminosity of such a star depended chiefly upon its
mass and temperature, being almost uninfluenced by other fac-
tors. To test the validity of this formula relating luminosity
to mass, he first evaluated the constants involved in it from the
known values of mass and luminosity of the bright star Capella.
He then plotted his relation as shown in the accompanying graph
by the curved line. Next he collected all the available data from
every possible source, giving both the masses and luminosities of
stars and these he plotted individually on his graph. Their close

Fic. 1.—Diagram of luminosity—mass relation.

1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, Vol. VI, No. 68, August, 1925.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

proximity to the theoretical curve is very striking, and forms a
strong confirmation of the validity of the theoretical work.

Curiosity, we suppose, led him to wonder where the points would
lie representing similar data for the dwarf stars. Now the dwarf
stars were so named by Prof. Henry Norris Russell because they
are so dense, due to gradual contraction, that it was thought impos-
sible that the gas laws could hold true in their case. Hence a rela-
tion between mass and luminosity explicitly based upon strict adher-
ence to the gas laws would not be expected to hold good for a star
of the dwarf type. But, mzrabile visu, the plotted points for data
taken from dwarf stars conform as well to the theoretical curve
as in the case of the giants.

This was an astounding fact suggesting as it did that the dwarf
star, no matter what its density, was in the state of atomic agitation
of a perfect gas. The explanation given by Eddington seems plau-
sible, though it has not been accepted unanimously—namely, that
where matter is subject to such high temperatures as exist in the
stars, temperatures to be measured in millions of degrees, each atom
is reduced in effective volume a hundred thousand times since its
revolving electrons, whose outermost orbits determine its normal
effective volume, are all stripped off or ionized by the intensity of
heat. Each electron is thus so endowed with energy that it moves
about as an independent unit unrestricted to any atomic orbit. Thus
a free gaseous state can exist in spite of much closer packing than
would suffice at ordinary temperatures to reduce the matter to the
state of liquid or solid.

DENSE STARS

This conception, if it be true, throws light on a long-standing
astronomical mystery. There are known to be a few stars, like the
white dwarf companion of Sirius, so small yet so massive that their
density worked out to be of the order of fifty thousand times that of
water—an absurdity it was thought, an impossible result, something
radically wrong somewhere in the observations or calculations. But
instead of finding something wrong with the calculations, Edding-
ton’s work suggests that the trouble lay in our thinking the result
absurd, in our failure to realize the tremendous difference between
the state of matter at terrestrial temperatures and at stellar tem-

peratures.
GIANTS AND DWARFS

If, then, all the stars are in a true gaseous condition, it is necessary
to modify all ideas and calculations based on the old point of view
that the dwarf stars were not obeying the same laws of pressure,
TIME AND SPACE—DOUGLAS 149

volume, and temperature as the giant stars. Prof. H. N. Russell’s
famous Giant and Dwarf theory of Stellar Evolution suggested
that a star begins its career as a very large mass of gas, highly
inflated and much less dense than air, This would slowly contract
by gravitational influence, growing hotter and hotter and brighter
and brighter. This period would embrace its life as a giant star.

When contraction had reached such a point that, upon the old view,
the gas laws could no longer be considered as even approximately
representing the state of the star, then at this critical point of balance
between mass, density, and temperature, further gravitational con-
traction would of necessity be accompanied by decrease of tempera-
ture and of luminosity. This period constituted the dwarf stage
of a star’s career. Now this theory is thrown into a new light by
Eddington’s results. If the mass of a star be constant throughout

>
mf)
ae ay
© SD
Betelgeuse § : se MKrueger 60

Dark Star

Fic. 2.—Diagram of stellar evolution

its life, Eddington’s formula shows that there can be very little
alteration in luminosity in spite of contraction, and hence the evolu-
tion of a single star as outlined above is an impossibility. If as an
alternative interpretation the mass of a star is gradually diminish-
ing, being actually consumed away to maintain the supply of energy
which a star is continuously radiating, then Russell’s theory of
evolution may be retained as indicating the probable sequence of
stellar change, but with this difference that, though the effective or
surface temperature may decrease during the latter stages, the
internal temperature will continue to rise.

LOSS OF MASS

A great deal thus turns on whether the mass of a radiating star
can actually be considered to be diminishing. There are, further-
more, two ways of looking at this question.

76041—26——11
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

One suggestion is that by collision of a very infrequent type be-
tween an electron and a proton (the ultimate particles of matter
known to the physicist, carrying the unit electrical charges, negative
and positive) their impact results in complete annihilation of their
mass—that is, of the matter which they form—a definite amount of
radiant energy being the equivalent result. This is highly specula-
tive, there being no observed phenomenon in nature to prove
definitely that such a transformation can take place; but it is
theoretically possible, for matter and energy are essentially the same
thing. Matter is one of many forms of energy and in the usual
units of measurement of energy, the energy equivalent of a mass m
grams of matter is m c* ergs where ¢ is the velocity of light, 310°
em. per second. In other words, one gram of matter represents a
potential concentration of energy equivalent to nine hundred million
million million ergs, or as more conveniently expressed, 9>< 107°
ergs; or one pound of matter embodies 1X (186,0005,280)? foot-
pounds of energy—that is, 10'S foot-pounds.

The theory of relativity has shown mathematically, and it has
been confirmed experimentally for fast moving alpha and _ beta
particles, that what we term mass is really a property of matter that
depends upon its velocity. Mass increases with increase of velocity,
but this increase only becomes apparent when the velocity is so great
that it becomes comparable to the velocity of light. The full expres-
sion for mass energy in the relativity theory is

MC? = MC? + Yamor? + 34 mov'/c? + ———

Here the first term is the whole intermolecular energy of the mass
at rest; the second term is its kinetic energy, or the energy possessed
by it in virtue of its motion; the third and subsequent terms will be
quite negligible for small values of the velocity v of the mass, but
become appreciable one by one as the velocity v approaches the
velocity of light. From this it follows that in order for the mass of
a star to diminish as a result (or perhaps we should say as the
cause) of its radiation, it is not necessary to postulate the annihila-
tion of matter, but simply the loss in mass resulting from loss in
velocity. From the above equation it can be seen that this might
well be a tremendous reservoir of available energy.

The idea that continued stellar radiation might imply gradual loss
in stellar mass was not new. It had been suggested some years ago
by Dr. J. H. Jeans, but the facts above explained brought this idea
forward with a new significance. Doctor Jeans saw that if this idea
be really true, many astronomical problems are seen in a new light,
and many investigations require reconsideration. This he has done
and only recently has he published his results.
TIME AND SPACE—DOUGLAS 151
AGE OF SUN

One of the questions which has provoked controversy between
geologist, physicist, and astronomer for many years is the probable
age of the earth, an estimate of the age of the sun being, of course,
an upper limit to the age of the solar system. Jeans attacks the
problem from the new point of view, and his argument is as follows:
The sun is radiating away its mass at the rate of about 4,200,000 tons
per second and, if it were once as massive a star as Sirius now is.
then it has been radiating for 710"? years. This means an age of
at least a million million years, and is several thousand times greater
than any previous estimate—a figure so great that it baffles compre-
hension, and staggers even the imagination.

GALAXY EXPANDING

There is an interesting consequence of loss of mass by radiation
which has an important bearing upon our system and upon the
galaxy of stars about us. If our sun be gradually diminishing in
mass, the law of conservation of momentum requires that the planets
move gradually off in ever expanding orbits. Similarly, if the mass
of our galaxy as a whole be gradually diminishing, the stars must
be opening out, spreading farther apart from the common center of
gravity and therefore from one another. Jeans estimates that 10%
years ago this galaxy was packed sixty-four times more closely than
it is at the present time.

BINARY STARS

This modifies various problems of cosmogony in a remarkable
manner. The orbits of binary stars have long been a mystery, because
no mutual force between two such stars was known which could
account for their being in such eccentric and large orbits about their
common center of gravity. Jeans points out that it is no longer
necessary to look for such a force, that with the enlarged time scale
for the galaxy (greater than 101° years) outside influences become
not only possible but very highly probable—that is to say, the normal
orbits of a binary system may be perturbed by the gravitational pull
of a passing star approaching more closely than is usual. The
chance of such an influence being brought to bear upon a binary is
greatly increased by the closer packing of the system in bygone ages.
Basing his calculations upon the observed percentage of decidedly
modified binary orbits and the probability of outside influence,
Jeans obtains an estimate of the age of the galaxy which confirms
his previous result of 10’? years.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
MASS AND VELOCITY

A statistical study of the masses and the velocities of stars revealed
a striking correlation, which though incomplete pointed toward
equipartition of energy. No satisfactory explanation of this was
offered until Jeans dispelled the clouds of mystery by showing that
it is essentially the same problem as that just discussed. The mutual
influences of the stars, originally sixty-four times as closely packed
as now, have resulted in the course of 10'* years in bringing some
measure of order out of primeval disorder. It is analogous to the
behavior of a mixture of gases—if undisturbed by external influences
the tendency would be for those molecules most massive to move most
slowly while the lighter molecules moved with the greater speed, the
kinetic energy or product of mass by velocity squared, tending to be
the same for all the molecules. This also formed a basis, though
of a truth a somewhat shaky basis, for again confirming the age of
the galaxy as 10" years.

SOLAR SYSTEMS

The nebular hypothesis of Laplace and the planetesimal hypothesis
of Chamberlin have gone into the history of science as great and
lasting monuments to their originators, both of whom were powerful
and constructive thinkers. As a direct development from Chamber-
lin’s hypothesis, Jeans some years ago worked out upon a rigorous
mathematical basis his tidal theory of the origin of the solar system.
In view of the contrast between his conclusions in 1919 and his
present conclusions in the light of the researches under review, it is
worth while to consider the tidal theory in some detail.

An analysis of the equilibrium forms of rotating fluids under
various conditions amenable to mathematical treatment, revealed the
fact that within a rotating gaseous mass there are no forces which
could combine to produce a series of planets such as encircle our sun.
Hence, following the lead of Chamberlin, Jeans called in the aid of
a passing star to supply the force necessary to disrupt the parent
sun. It is obvious that a close approach of one star to another would
draw out tides, one on each side of the star considered, the tidal arm
on the side nearest to the tide-producing star being slightly the
greater, and therefore more readily drawn out to a distance produc-
ing its instability. The matter in this arm would then break away
from the parent sun and follow orbits about the sun in directions
governed by the direction of travel of the passing star. Condensa-
tion would gradually take place about any points in the tidal arm
where there happened to be a local concentration of gas. Each of
these nuclei would become one of the planets, and its orbit and other
individual characteristics would be determined, in part at least, by
TIME AND SPACE—DOUGLAS 153

the influence of the “resisting medium” through which it moved,

this medium being composed of the vast millions of gaseous particles
scattered hither and thither into space about the sun by the cataclys-
mic disruption of the tidal arm.

The formation of satellites by the planets i is again an evidence of
tidal action, but in this case the sun itself was the tide-producing
agency which caused the disruption of the planets when each passed
its perihelion for the first time. That some satellites so formed
eventually became detached from their parent planets to be captured
by other planets is one of the interesting results of the action of the
resisting medium.

Dr. Harold Jeffreys has recently proposed several modifications
of the above tidal theory. The outstanding point of difference is
that Jeffreys limits the size of the ancestral sun to 40 million kilo-
meters in diameter, whereas Jeans had presupposed a much less
dense sun of diameter 8,000 million kilometers; the former figure
is approximately the diameter of Mercury’s orbit, the latter figure
is greater than the diameter of the orbit of Neptune. The evidence
in favor of the smaller figure seems to be fairly strong.

UNKNOWN PLANETS

The point of interest in both these forms of the tidal theory
is that they led to the belief that our solar system was possibly
unique in the galaxy of stars, because the chance of two stars ap-
proaching closely enough to produce tidal disruption—namely 10"
kilometers—was only once in 10'° years, which was the whole age of
the galaxy then considered possible. With the much greater time
scale now proposed by Jeans, and considering also the much closer
packing in those early millions of years, the probability of the close
approach of two stars becomes decidedly great. Hence the conclu-
sion now reached by Jeans is that of the myriad stars we see about
us—not the majority—but a considerable number are probably suns
to a family of planets. Like our own solar system in many respects,
these numerous other systems may be, yet differing probably from it
and from one another in all the details. Whether upon some fav-
ored planets in some of these many systems there have been devel-
oped physical conditions as on this earth, rendering them fit cradles
for the advent of life we know not, and it is beyond the scope of
the mathematical physicist and astronomer to speculate further.

STABILITY OF GALAXY

An investigation of very great interest has been carried out dur-
ing the last year by Dr. Ludvik Silberstein on the question of the
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

permanence of star clusters, in particular, the great star cluster
or galaxy near the center of which our solar system finds itself.
Silberstein bases his calculations upon the four-dimensional space-
time relations of de Sitter, and from this starting point he last year
deduced a relation which could be evaluated in terms of observed
astronomical data in such a way as to give a numerical value for
an invariant characteristic of spacetime called by the mathemati-
cian the radius of curvature. This quantity, symbolized by R, has
the finite value of 10’? astronomical units, that is 10’? times the dis-
tance from earth to sun. This theory, with the consequent value of
FP, has not been universally accepted, but this does not detract from
the interest of the subsequent reasoning by which Silberstein deduces
a criterion of stability in terms of the total mass of a system of
material bodies (molecules or stars) and the radius of the system.
Associated with any given mass there is a critical distance. If a
star be at a greater distance than this critical value from the center
of gravity, its orbit will of necessity be a hyperbola. This means
that sooner or later it will desert the system forever. On the other
hand, if its distance from the mass center be less than the critical
value it will describe an elliptic orbit, thus remaining indefinitely
within the system.

This criterion has been applied to those globular clusters far out
in space beyond our own galaxy, for which the astronomer has been
able to form estimates of their size and mass. They are found to be
considerably less massive than our galaxy and very much more
closely packed, so closely packed that the calculated critical radius
is much greater than the dimensions of the clusters, which may,
therefore, from the point of view of this theory, be considered as
stable aggregates of stars.

The reverse is the case of our own galaxy. Much too widely scat-
tered for its mass, its radius exceeds the critical value for stability,
and therefore this theory predicts that it will suffer from what
Doctor Silberstein terms “ hyperbolic desertion ” until its ranks be
reduced and its volume diminished to such an extent that the cri-
terion might perchance be satisfied. In its present form it is, like
the Roman Empire, far too inflated to be enduring.

Densities can be treated in a similar manner. Silberstein evalu-
ates the critical density of matter in space in terms of his finite
curvature invariant 2, the gravitational constant and the velocity
of light—three fundamental quantities in this complex universe.
Any aggregation of matter of less than this critical density will be
unstable and tend to dissipate, whereas any aggregation of density
exceeding this value will be in a state of stability. The galaxy of
stars in which our system finds itself is estimated to have a density
fifty-two times too small to satisfy the conditions for permanence.
TIME AND SPACE—DOUGLAS 155)

Having surveyed the future, let us, in the hght of this same
theory, glance backward in an endeavor to trace the origin of a
stellar cluster. Silberstein considers the possibility of a gaseous
mass or nebula giving rise to millions of individual concentrations
of matter, and thus forming the.individual stars of a cluster. This
was essentially the primary postulate of Laplace, though he was
considering the relatively minute case of a nebula giving rise to a
solar system—an impossible hypothesis in the light of modern
knowledge. But as an explanation of the evolution of a small
galaxy of stars, like many of the star clusters revealed by the tele-
scope, it is by no means to be discarded—it may well be the true
solution of the problem, as was pointed out by Jeans some years ago.
When, however, an attempt is made to explain the origin of our
galaxy in this manner, it is found to be incapable of satisfying all
the conditions. Our galaxy, to quote yet another analogy taken by
Doctor Silberstein from the history of mankind, must have devel-
oped, like the far-flung British Empire, by the aggregation into one
conglomerate whole of many remnants of previous systems, systems
long since scattered to the four winds.

Guided by some of the great thinkers of to-day, our thoughts have
traversed xons of time, contemplating some of the changes taking
place with majestic deliberation throughout the vastnesses of space.
“Time rolls*his ceaseless course.” A million million years suffice
for the birth of a star and its early development; a few hundred
thousand years will tell the tale of the life of mankind. upon this
planet; and as for man, an individual man, the years of his life
are three score years and ten, and yet such is the power of a great
mind that, despite the brevity of its allotted span, it can wrestle with
the problems of nature and learn something at least of the immensi-
ties of space and time.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

A. 8. Eddington: Masses and Luminosities of the Stars. M. N. R. A. S.
March, 1924.

J. H. Jeans: Monthly Notices Royal Astronomical Society. December, 1924.

J. H. Jeans: Cosmogony and Stellar Dynamics. 1919.

H. Jeffreys: The Harth: Its origin, history, and physical constitution. 1924.

L. Silberstein: Theory of Relativity. 1924. Chap. -VI and Miscellaneous
Notes.

A. V. D.: Measuring the Universe. Discovery, September, 1924.
i I ak
gata oldie. Ngee ott

Ao We Winita vad .
Saipan Row, ashi
erihis2 rune fate pebanty
aifl...sten she eaele dena | .
eet wh tlaginoadhoeminiedy Chee, ak hin ch UReUACH a

01, bein ody a ahs 10. pie antbliens be
eho To ddyds slink: siesdiog icaldinetaaae site
Haren, toa aornfor! adie oiiaagtiens Geer Gs AE nang! pliee iisad
“insta bolaomr einai) etic fu Than thihwerste eet > ;
a, a8), ad Atagh apna die babevapedy, Se ates ee

ape ete, omnes mune hyd Ino, bodaing omy can caniketipep acts tae aa sal
nt lectyina adit diakyeo odenbene ay deities ayia tai ad me .

moh tt Mabie acre
he acelin: ete

Le auingiaiied to eldaqenné al ot dnsucdbiel th iocitiont aida wh a
idol Coolenetedigont joy plaap of elena AOL caitol "
-lovah, a¢ad teitiendiibdenesth to. qiatedd Nata aioe
ow aiewrEee WAY yd roel dae aE dT odileage -
autos minetetemiptiont lv qmacuha tats Todalotn <i Ba

hen. LO? 22 Bil valnia. ingot ob hoxatiao souie:
daekintatiis preggabacyat Ve aralaihh tesey
gutta eyyiads ag! Te ano weiiniqinietirgs omit te anuiven paced

Sopa Lorena. od adeno sotsenndtlole ante iiie simul os

piihivactang ined tian radliion) do. “secising: alana enamel oe
faihand ad oe iewarpobeiale glass abe bre Tale me tiody ida ab ]
ehigiaings Lynidinip teu adil witty tiny aki: gdh, Holalhine ey, sos ore
obiheaut holo tc bream epy toi on Ee a jek: erty ee

tin sired ae) 4, sekig i Saad kfig NS 0 wits of | eee
ong sald. ‘be seal oaaraanetin itnsl Baw ya pee rieve %

‘e
?
ay
: ea

lat wed Ne Ma ae onnsa ean rae
oe rei : region ih iettec’." are ule rable tit oes ee
ay  Laayoiit ope LRA eek Phe? PAD ALL Sete Treo a3
PEA fk HAA, 048, 0 enact as se i glee 4

sci) aN a
isi Vind Sas" “ighinnt Bauer fe sh Yow alow chi luole ots ois
tbh ak = ORE BabHaieedl ihe iis ae nbarge bean ari toe

sheath yak ai Taniveiliy bak Gh ate wae oD eee ee
auneniiow GC duh iP ehh See ellsnt ns te eg re a oben af ECU

Sie Sevale | Seti tie eee phey | n Vt (eae. by hae
con ye, SEE eae me ng ae Rl i
eee e +) ~~ ra iierw 2) te SG thyve iy iia coset ses dee
Ae tia ia. 1 Oe ee ike oc ker eta ate rat fill ies
ytteintae asul , Lodleapiha, wits ieee ry lot nga a
ee Dee diag eae pide vik Sx tre hy ee ial per ot

lata 'ig Dhhergas corte fide des sooaeae | LeDaeteat ia
nfiy twa tices eds wail 4a tig a Sil Liroae Ses: :

' a of i a
7
CERTAIN ASPECTS OF HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH +?

By Prof. P. W. BripgMan, Ph. D.

Harvard University

As some of you know, I have been occupied for a number of years
in determining the effects of high hydrostatic pressure on a number
of physical properties. To-day, I propose to stop for a minute for
a general stock taking, to outline briefly some of the results obtained
and to suggest partially their possible significance. I am impelled
to do this because the variety of subjects touched by this high-
pressure research is so great, and the character of the information
obtained in many cases so special, that the whole effort is likely to
appear without general scheme or significance. But I believe that
different limited aspects of the subject will be of interest to different
individuals; by presenting to you the general outline, I hope to
make it possible for any individual to become aware of those aspects
of the work which may be of special significance to him.

My general attitude in my investigation has been that high pres-
sures are a tool which may be significantly apphed to the discussion
of many different problems. It is not usual, however, for an experi-
menter to devote himself to exploiting a single tool of research. I
am somewhat in the position of a small boy with a new jackknife
who rushes about trying it on every conceivable object. Doubtless
the more mature method is to maintain a tool box from which one
might take the jackknife when one has to sharpen a pencil, or an
augur when one has to bore a hole. I may suggest, in partial extenu-
ation of my attitude, that there seem to be very few jackknives in
the world, or at least very few people who seem willing to use them,
and there really does seem to be a certain amount of whittling that
needs to be done.

The kind of problem which can be attacked most successfully by
the use of high pressures is not that which is now most interesting
to most physicists, nor which appears to be most fundamental.
This tool is not particularly adapted to probing questions of the
constitution of the atom and particularly of the nucleus, but is better

1 Address delivered Thursday, Sept. 18, 1924, on the occasion of the celebration of the
centenary of the founding of The Franklin Institute. Reprinted by permission from the
Journal of The Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, August, 1925.

157
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

adapted to the larger scale atomic and molecular phenomena. There
are, of course, occasions when the behavior of matter under high
pressures intimately involves the inner structure of the atom, but in
general the pressures with which I am concerned are too small to
produce large changes in the atoms themselves. We are concerned
here with pressures from 10,000 to 20,000 atmospheres. These are
capable of producing comparatively large and significant changes
in the properties of many substances, but they can not, of course,
be compared with the pressures of perhaps billions of atmospheres
which occur in the interior of the stars, and which are supposed to
be a factor in atomic evolution.

The significance of high pressure as a tool of atomic research
lies in the extreme simplicity of the change it produces in the ex-
ternal conditions, merely pushing the atoms closer together so that
they are compelled to give a somewhat more intimate account of
their own inmost selves. The changes produced by pressure are
obviously much simpler than those produced by a change of tem-
perature. No one regards our understanding of a phenomenon as
satisfactory unless we are able to give some account of the changes
produced by temperature; still less should we be satisfied if we can
not account for the changes produced by pressure. Further, by com-
bining the effects of temperature and pressure, we extend enormously
the field in which we may look for phenomena suggestive for our
theories, for the field is now two instead of one dimensional.

Tt is not necessary to apologize for activity in atomic phenomena,
even if they are not on the extreme end of the exploring line, be-
cause they are the phenomena which are perhaps of most immediate
concern to us in daily life, and we have as yet hardly begun to
understand them. The extent of our ignorance may be emphasized
by the fact that none of our theories is able to predict accurately
any of the high-pressure phenomena which I shall summarize, in
spite of their extreme simplicity.

Perhaps the most fundamental of the changes produced by pres-
sure are those of volume itself. I have measurements of the com-
pressibility of 5 gases, 15 liquids—most of them simple organic
liquids, but including water -and mercury—and some 45 different
solids, 35 of them metallic elements, several minerals, and several
varieties of glass. I may mention here also the compressibility of
11 of the alkali halides determined by Dr. J. C. Slater, in the Jeffer-
son Laboratory. All of these compressibilities have been determined
at several temperatures, so that we know the effects of pressure on
thermal expansion. ‘The melting curves of 37 substances, including
metallic elements and organic compounds have been determined.
These melting measurements include a determination of the change
of melting temperature when pressure is raised, the change of volume
HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH—BRIDGMAN 159

on melting, the latent heat of melting, and in many cases the differ-
ence of compressibility between liquid and solid. The effect of pres-
sure on the polymorphic transitions of some 30 substances has been
investigated, including organic and inorganic compounds and the very
interesting case of water. This investigation has involved the study
of 69 transition lines and 21 triple points. On these transition lines
the change of transition temperature with pressure has been deter-
mined, and also the change of volume, the latent heat, the difference
of compressibility (which gives information about the difference
of thermal expansion and specific heats), and the effect of pressure
on velocity. In addition to these 30 substances, about 100 others
have been examined and no new polymorphic forms have been found.
The effect of pressure on electrical resistance over a range of tem-
perature has been determined for 45 metallic elements in the solid
state, 8 in the liquid state, and for 7 alloys. The effect of pressure
on thermal e. m. f. has been measured for 18 metallic elements and 2
alloys. The effect of pressure on the thermal conductivity of 11
solid metallic elements, 6 minerals, and 15 liquids (all organic except
water) has been measured. Finally, a few observations have been
made on the phenomena of rupture under high pressure.

What now is the general nature of the facts found, and some
of their implications? First, consider the facts with regard to
changes of volume. At high pressures there is no essential differ-
ence between a gas and a liquid. Under 12,000 kg. the changes of
volume of ordinary nonmetallic liquids range from something like
20 per cent for water and 33 per cent for ether up to those of
hydrogen and helium, which are the most compressible substances
investigated, and which, under 12,000 kg. at ordinary temperatures
have a volume less than half that which they have when frozen
solid at atmospheric pressure by temperatures close to 0° Abs.
Under these pressures there is a very great change in properties.
The thermal expansion drops to less than one-fourth of what it is
ordinarily, and the compressibility drops to one-fifteenth; both
of these changes are very much greater than the changes of volume.
The fact that compressibility and thermal expansion drop off so
greatly for comparatively small changes of volume suggests that
these must be intimately connected in some way with the empty
spaces between the atoms. All of the organic liquids behave roughly
alike, so that an average of them furnishes us with a sort of ideal
liquid, analogous to the familiar “ perfect ” gas. This ideal liquid
has one curious property; above a certain pressure the ordinary
behavior of thermal expansion reverses itself, and the liquid is more
expansible at the low rather than at the high temperatures. In
addition to the broad features, which are alike for all liquids, each
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

individual shows small and perfectly characteristic divergences from
the mean, which do not become conspicuous until the highest pres-
sures are reached. These suggest differences between the different
kinds of atoms or molecules, roughly corresponding to differences
of shape. If an atom has a “knob” on it (local inequality in its
force field), it will interfere with its neighbors and produce per-
ceptible differences of behavior when the atoms are pushed close
together by high pressure. On the other hand, it is interesting
that water, which under ordinary conditions is a highly abnormal
liquid, under high pressures loses its abnormalities and returns to
normality.

The kinetic theory of gases, extended to include the behavior of
liquids up to a few hundred atmospheres around the critical point,
has engaged almost exclusive attention up to the present time. There
is, so far as I know, no theory of liquids that, with any approach
to success, attempts to picture how the molecules in a liquid behave
when pushed into such close contact that there is considerable mutual
interference.

The changes of volume of the solid elements (metals mostly) are
in general much less than those of liquids, but they are nevertheless
sieanifieuritly large, as in most cases it is possible to reduce the volume
by pressure to considerably less than it would be if the metal were
deprived of all heat motion by being cooled to absolute zero at
atmospheric pressure.

Some of the metals are highly compressible, and cesium, in partic-
ular, loses more in volume at high pressures than ether. There is a
characteristic difference between liquids and solids in that solids do
not lose their compressibility nearly as rapidly at high pressures.
We would expect a difference of this sort; in solids, the atoms must
retain their regular crystalline arrangement at high pressures, so
that the free spaces around the edges and corners of the molecules
are never occupied and hence play a relatively small part in the phe-
nomena of compression. In a number of solids it seems that the per-
sistence of compressibility at high pressure can be explained only by
a compressibility of the atoms themselves. ‘There is here an import-
ant problem for quantum theory: To formulate the quantum con-
ditions when the electronic orbits interfere with each other as much
as they must in a strongly compressed solid.

There is no adequate theory to explain the properties of metals.
In fact, the general nature of their structure is less well known than
is that of the structure of certain salts, compounds of two elements.
The data on compressibility now give us the means of finding the
first three derivatives of the forces between the atoms of a metal.
HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH—BRIDGMAN 161

As a physicist, I am sanguine that the mathematician can go far
toward reconstructing the function if he knows its first three deriva-
tives, and we may hope at any rate that these data will make possible,
a more adequate description of the force field about an atom, even
if they do not completely determine the mechanism.

It has been stated that compressibility becomes less at high pres-
sures. This is what we should expect, because, as the atoms are
squeezed closer together, it seems natural that they should resist
more strongly attempts at closer propinquity. I have found, how-
ever, a significant exception in quartz glass and several varieties of
ordinar glass in which SiO, is a prominent constituent. These
become more compressible at high pressures. This can not but be
significant; our theories must explain why it is that, under some
conditions, the atoms resist compression less strongly the closer they
are pushed together. It is natural to seek to establish a connection
with the fact that these abnormal substances are amorphous instead
of crystalline, and that they would doubtless crystallize with a
decrease of volume.

The probable effect of pressure on melting temperature was for a
long time a matter of controversy. Early views were strongly influ-
enced by the striking critical phenomena between liquid and vapor,
and it was supposed by many that there would be found a critical
point between liquid and solid such that above this point liquid and
solid might be made to change from one into the other without dis-
continuity. A later rival theory, strongly defended, was that of
Tammann, who supposed that there was a maximum melting tem-
perature above which a liquid could not be forced to freeze by any
pressure no matter how high, and below which the liquid might be
frozen and the solid melted again by a sufficiently high pressure.
The experimental difficulty in settling this question was that the
available pressure range was not sufficient. But with the data now
at hand, we may, I believe, regard this question as settled. It appears
from the evidence of 37 substances that there is no experimental rea-
son to think that the melting curve does not rise indefinitely, at a
continuously decreasing rate, but nevertheless so that at any tem-
perature a pressure can be found high enough to freeze the liquid
to the solid. There is no connection whatever between the melting
phenomena and the ordinary critical phenomena of liquid and vapor;
the amorphous phase may be frozen by sufficient pressure either
above or below the critical temperature. This is, after all, the nat-
ural result. It would seem as if one ought, by pushing the atoms
close enough together, to be able eventually to undo the disorienting
effect of an increase in the energy of temperature agitation. A con-
tinuous passage from a liquid to a solid was most difficult to visualize
with our concept of a liquid as a haphazard ageregate of molecules,
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

and of the solid as consisting of the same molecules regularly
arranged.

. The discovery of the true character of the melting curve is of evi-
dent importance for geophysics.

In addition to an indefinitely rising melting point, the measure-
ments showed that solid and liquid become more and more alike in
volume at high pressures, but that the latent heat absorbed on passing
from solid to liquid is little changed. It is furthermore universally
true that the liquid is more compressible than the solid.

This is natural enough for normal liquids, but is not so obvious
in the case of ice, which has a volume larger than that of liquid
water, but is less compressible. All these facts must be explained
by the future theories, but nothing essentially new is involved here;
when we have an adequate theory of the solid and the liquid state
separately, the correct explanation of the melting phenomena will
automatically follow.

Another interesting fact brought out by the measurements on
water and some other substances which crystallize in two or more
modifications is that in the liquid there may be nuclear structures
of considerable complexity capable of persisting for days. The
liquid is not the simple thing that it may appear to a casual glance,
but, at least under some conditions, it may carry concealed within
it traces of its past history imperceptible to ordinary means. The
existence of these structures in the liquid is now being demon-
strated by X rays, but the extraordinary persistence of the indi-
vidual structure can not be shown by such means.

One minor way in which the pressure tool may be of value is
in determining latent heats of melting. A calorimetric measure-
ment is admittedly difficult. By measuring the melting pressures
corresponding to two melting temperatures near the normal melt-
ing point and determining the changes of volume, one has an
indirect measurement of latent heat which is often far preferable
to a direct measurement. The pressures involved are not high—
only a few hundred atmospheres—and the apparatus is so simple
that it may be readily constructed.

Contrasted with the phenomena of melting are those of poly-
morphic transitions in the solid state. These are of all degrees
of complexity and are governed by a few simple rules. No cases
have been found of a critical point between two solid modifications ;
this doubtless corresponds to some essential physical necessity, for
it is hard to see how one kind of space lattice which is characteristic
of one crystalline modification can change, without discontinuity,
into some other space lattice characteristic of another crystalline
modification. Except for this, we may apparently have nearly every
kind of behavior, Under varying conditions of pressure and tem-
HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH—BRIDGMAN 163

perature, transitions may take place with no volume change, and
others with no latent heat. As pressure rises, the slope of the transi-
tion line may either rise or fall, while the slope of the melting curve
always falls. There is a surprisingly large number of cases analo-
gous to that of water and ice, in which the modification stable at the
higher temperature has the smaller volume. We might be inclined
to think of this as an abnormal state of affairs, and might expect
that high pressure would tend to wipe it out, but such is not the
case, and these ice-type transitions persist at least to pressures
beyond our present reach. Another surprising fact is that in the
majority of cases the modification with the smaller volume is the
more compressible. This is the same behavior as that shown by
water and ice, and can not help being of significance for atomic
structure. It means that the atom has outlying parts which have
centers of force of strength sufficient, in conjunction with the out-
lying parts of other atoms, to build up an open-work structure,
and that these outlying parts have more than usual stiffness, so
that the resultant open-work structure has a lower compressibility
than the more dense structure which the atoms are forced to assume
by a pressure sufficiently high to push the outlying centers of
force out of register. From some points of view, the thought of
atoms as having “ knobs” is certainly suggestive, although so crude
a picture is repulsive to some persons.

One feature of the behavior of polymorphic forms, which is
of great significance, may be studied to advantage with the high-
pressure tool. This is the speed with which one modification trans-
forms itself to another. A particular advantage of this tool is
the nicety and rapidity of control which it offers. Changing the
‘pressure on a two-phase system is equivalent to changing the tem-
perature, but, whereas the actual temperature can be changed
only slowly and nonuniformly throughout the interior of the
apparatus, and considerable time is required for attainment of
equilibrium, the effective temperature may be changed instantly
and uniformly by any desired amount by a stroke of the pressure
pump. By changing the conditions in this way in the immediate
neighborhood of a transition point, I have studied a considerable
number of solid transitions under pressure. There is an essential
difference between a change from one solid to another and that
from a solid or a vapor to a liquid. If a vapor and liquid or
solid and liquid coexist, then at any definite temperature a single
definite pressure of equilibrium will be automatically established.
The ordinary kinetic mechanism makes this understandable.

Equilibrium between vapor and liquid, for example, is main-
tained by the action of two streams of matter, one continually con-
densing on the liquid from the vapor, the other continually evapo-
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

rating from the liquid into the vapor. When the velocity of the
two processes is the same we have equilibrium, and if equilibrium is
disturbed the two processes restore it. But with two solids the
behavior may be (although not necessarily) quite different, in that
two solids may coexist indefinitely in contact at a definite temperature
anywhere within a range of pressure. This is different from the
familiar persistence of a modification in a region of thermodynamic
instability which involves viscosity. In such a system it is usually
supposed that equilibrium will be automatically produced if the tem-
perature is raised to the point of thermodynamic equilibrium and
the two phases are in contact. The mechanism by which a definite
equilibrium is automatically set up does not exist in the solid. In
the solid it is probably near the truth to imagine the atoms as tied +
to certain mean positions of equilibrium and as vibrating about these
positions, but never departing from them by more than a definite
amount. In the liquid or vapor, on the other hand, we have some-
thing like Maxwell’s distribution of velocities, and it is possible to
find a few atoms with any velocity that we please, no matter how
high above the mean. Suppose now two modifications of the solid
to be in contact. If an atom is going to change from one modifi-
sation to the other it will have to free itself from its first position
before it can settle down into the second. If the act of freeing itself
from the first position involves too much of a departure from the
mean, the atom will not be able to make the change, even if the new
position, when once attained, is a position of greater stability. But
by a sufficiently large change of external conditions the atom may
be helped to free itself from the first position, and so attain the sec-
ond. I have studied in some detail the way in which the width of
the “ domain of indifference ” varies with pressure and temperature,
and also the variation of the velocity of transition outside the do-
main. Both show large and very different sorts of variation for
different substances.

At present we have absolutely no theory of polymorphism; we
are acquiring by X-ray analysis a descriptive knowledge of the dif-
ferent atomic arrangements of polymorphs in some cases, but we
have no explanation to offer of why, under some conditions the atoms
build themselves into one kind of structure and sometimes into an-
other. For instance, who has any adequate explanation of why
diamonds are so rare and graphite so common? ‘There is here a
curious example of the indirect progress that physics sometimes
makes. It would seem to be a much simpler problem to explain
the ways in which an atom may combine with others of its own kind
than with those of a different kind, whereas in fact we have at least
the beginnings of an understanding of a great many chemical com-
pounds, but can not claim anything of the kind for polymorphs. I
can not help feeling that an understanding of the great multiplicity
HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH——BRIDGMAN 165

of the phenomena of polymorphism under high pressures will be of
assistance in understanding this fundamental matter, if only once
somebody can find the loose end of the skein, and I even hope that
it may be helpful in finding the loose end.

One particular transition produced by pressure is so interesting
that I shall mention it in detail. Under proper conditions of pressure
and temperature, ordinary yellow phosphorus is transformed into a
black variety much like graphite in its properties, and of a density
nearly 50 per cent greater than that of the parent yellow phosphorus.
The change is irreversible and permanent, and is the only example
of such a permanent change produced by high pressure that I have
found. The mechanism of the change is not at all understood,
although a number of attempts have been made at explanation.
The great difference of density points is something unusual. I wish
to direct special attention to the conditions initiating the change
from yellow to black. For a time varying from 10 to 30 minutes
before the change occurs, some preliminary change takes place
throughout the entire interior of the mass of phosphorus, which is
accompanied by a slight loss of volume, and which proceeds at an
accelerated rate until the entire structure becomes unstable and col-
lapses into the new modification. This preliminary change can not
be produced in the usual ways by external agents. For instance,
we can not inoculate a mass of yellow phosphorus with black and
thereby either hasten or delay the transformation. There is nothing
else that I know of like this behavior. Certainly the ordinary
formation of a new phase out of one that has become unstable by
the formation of nuclei and the growth of these nuclei at a definite
rate has nothing in common with this.

The electrical resistance of metallic elements in general decreases
under pressure, the rate of decrease itself decreasing by a sort of
law of diminishing returns as the pressure rises. The magnitude
of the decrease under 12,000 kg. varies from 1 per cent or less for
metals like cobalt and tungsten to more than 70 per cent for potas-
sium and rubidium. ‘There is no simple connection with the change
of volume, as the change of resistance is of the order of tenfold
greater. The resistance of a few metals increases under pressure,
and it is true of all of these that the rate of increase itself increases
with the pressure. I have now, in addition, two unique metals:
Cesium, whose resistance at first decreases but later passes through
a minimum and then increases; and antimony, whose resistance, at
right angles to the trigonal axis, at first increases, but later passes
through a maximum and then decreases. The effects of pressure are
thus much more complicated than those of temperature (which are
nearly the same for all metals), but they may, I believe, be even

76041—26—_12
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

more suggestive in formulating a theory of resistance. Some im-
portant relations are brought out by the pressure tool that might
not otherwise be known. Thus, the fact that pressure increases the
resistance of solid bismuth, which is abnormal, but decreases that of
the liquid, which is normal, strongly suggests that the abnormal
behavior of solid bismuth is connected in some way with a pecu-
liarity of the crystal structure. But, on the other hand, the fact
that pressure increases the resistance of both solid and liquid lithium
shows that the abnormality is in some way more deep-seated for
this metal and is doubtless connected with some characteristic of
the’atom as a whole. The pressure effects bring out the fact that the
conduction mechanism is not as simple as we might have supposed
from the fact that the temperature coefficient of all metals is nearly
the same.

There is, of course, no adequate theory of metallic conduction;
the classical free electron theory has had to be given up, and there
is no satisfactory substitute. I have myself made an attempt at
finding the significance of the various pressure effects, and have
been led by them to a very general conception of conduction which
I believe must be incorporated into the finally accepted theory.
This conception is that the atoms play an essentially positive part
in conduction and, in some way which we do not at present under-
stand, make it possible for electrons to pass from one part of a
metal to another. According to the classical conception, the role of
the atoms was entirely secondary and negative; the atoms were
the source of the free electrons, but, having once provided the elec-
trons, their rdle was merely that of trouble makers, getting in the
way of the electrons and preventing them from moving about as
they wished. But it now appears that the electrons can not drift
about without the intervention of the atoms. It is as if the atoms
hand on the electrons from one to another when they are lined
up in certain ways, or as if there were tracks between the intricate
maze of quantum orbits within the atom, along which the conduc-
_ tion electrons may travel, so that there is an opportunity for long
flights by the electrons when the tracks are properly aligned. All
of the normal and abnormal effects of pressure are understandable
in terms of a picture like this if we only suppose that the atom
itself, when brought into close proximity to its fellows, behaves
in the unsimple way that the facts of compressibility and poly-
morphic transition compel us to suppose. It is natural to suppose
that these definite tracks are in some way connected with quantum
conditions, and perhaps with high quantum numbers, but the de-
tails are too complicated for our working out at present.

The effects of pressure on thermal e. m. f. I have not attempted
to incorporate into any definite theory, but they do suggest one
HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH—BRIDGMAN 167

important point of view. The pressure effects are complicated,
there being maxima, minima, and complicated temperature effects.
We do not in general expect that so simple a thing as a hydro-
static pressure will produce complicated effects, unless these effects
involve a complicated mechanism. I have therefore drawn the
conclusion that the thermal e. m. f. mechanism must be compara-
tively complicated, and not the simple thing supposed by the classi-
cal theory; this I have considered sufficient justification for not
attempting to explain thermal e. m. f. in a first simple theory of
the electrical properties of metals.

We pass now from the electrical properties to the thermal prop-
erties of metals. It is well known that there is a close relation
between electrical and thermal conductivity, which is expressed in
the law of Wiedemann-Franz. The behavior of thermal conduc-
tivity under pressure shows that, although the relation may be close,
there are other factors which have been insufficiently considered.

The thermal conductivity of most metals increases under pressure,
but that of some decreases, and for the most of them the change of
electrical conductivity is greater than that of thermal. The reason
for the difference is doubtless to be found in the contribution made
to thermal conductivity by the atoms as distinguished from the
electrons; but a consideration of numerical values suggests that the
atomic part may be greater than has been supposed.

The thermal conductivity of minerals has been measured under
pressure, a matter of importance to geophysicists. It has been found
that in general the thermal conductivity of minerals increases under
pressure, but the increases are not large enough to demand serious
modification in our ordinary geological arguments, except possibly
at great depths.

The effect of pressure on the thermal conductivity of liquids is
interesting because it is so large; 12,000 kg. increases the conductivity
by from two- to threefold. In speculating as to the reasons for this,
it appears that there is a very intimate connection with the velocity
of sound. Entirely apart from the pressure effects, a reexamination
of the old facts with the new bias given by the pressure measurements
has shown that the main mechanism of thermal conduction in a
liquid is of surprising simplicity, being a sort of combination of
the kinetic mechanism of a gas and the elastic wave mechanism of
a crystalline solid. If we conceive of each molecule of the liquid as
possessing the kinetic energy of temperature agitation demanded by
kinetic theory, and handing this energy on to its neighbors with the
velocity of an elastic wave of small dimensions—that is, with the
velocity of sound—we shall account almost entirely for the thermal
conductivity of ordinary liquids.
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Apart from the various effects which have been measured ac-
curately, results obtained under high pressures suggest other new
points of view. Thus in the preliminary work, before I had found
out how to make tight joints, or had learned what the capabilities
of steel cylinders were in withstanding pressure, I observed a number
of different types of rupture under unusual conditions, which are of
some interest to the engineer. By selecting results under different
conditions, it was possible to show that none of the ordinarily
accepted criteria of rupture are valid except under restricted circum-
stances. The general, and therefore the significant, conditions of
rupture are yet to be formulated.

Finally, we may glance at what remains to be done. Although
the most readily obtainable results have been secured, the subject has
not been more than begun. It becomes more and more impressed
upon me that significant results are to be found in little frequented
places, as, for instance, by working on materials that have extreme
properties or in going to extreme temperatures. Thus, quite recently,
this has led me to determine the properties of ceesium, the most com-
pressible of the metals, with the extremely suggestive discovery of
minimum resistance. The same sort of thing is to be done with
many other materials of unusual properties. The extension of these
high-pressure results to temperatures near the absolute zero, where
phenomena assume an unwonted simplicity because of the absence
of temperature agitation, will doubtless be of extreme importance.
Results just as important lie also at high temperatures, a most
difficult field, which the Geophysical Laboratory is skilfully
attacking. Interesting special results may be found; the will-o’-the-
wisp of manufactured diamonds is always before us. Without
doubt, important practical developments lie in a field as yet
practically untouched, that of organic, colloidal, and biological
chemistry. It was shown a long while ago, at the West Virginia
Agricultural Experiment Station, that high pressures will sterilize
milk. I have found that high pressures in the cold will also coagu-
late egg white, or the proteids of meat. Here is an enormous field
untouched. We ought to know the effect of pressure on every sub-
stance of biological significance, just as we now know the effect of
an elevation of temperature, and we may anticipate that important
changes or combinations may be produced by pressure, just as they
are now produced by temperature.

On the purely physical side, the field is immense. [Entirely apart
from new experimental knowledge, we can not be satisfied with any
theory which does not adequately explain the effects of high pressure
already known, and conversely I venture to hope that these phe-
nomena of high pressure may play an increasing part in formulat-
ing more adequate theories of the structure of matter.
LIGHTNING AND OTHER HIGH-VOLTAGE PHENOMENA!

By I. W. PEexk, Jr.

General Hiectric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.

[With 11 plates]
I. InrropuctTion

For a number of years the author has been actively engaged in
research in various high-voltage phenomena. ‘This work has been
done from the standpoint of pure research to determine fundamental
principles and from the standpoint of practice to better the insula-
tion of apparatus, to extend transmission voltages, and to determine
means of protecting transmission lines and buildings from lightning.
By combining pure and applied research a much broader view is
obtained, and there is no better test of theory than to attempt to
apply it to practice in a simple way. It will often be found that
essential factors have been overlooked.

In the following discussion the practical as well as the theoret-
ical viewpoint will be kept in mind.

Il. HieuH-Voirace PHENOMENA

High electric pressure or voltages are necessary for economical long
distance transmission, but when such voltages are used without
proper precautions in design the energy may leak away from the
lines with a hissing noise in the corona. The corona is a beautiful
crown of light surrounding the conductors and is a manifestation
of the ions and electrons moving in the electric field.

The sparking distance is also of theoretical and practical import-
ance.

Laws of corona, sparking curves, etc., were established at the com-
paratively low voltages of the order of 250,000. These were suc-
cessfully applied to 220,000-volt transmission lines.

III. Researcn at Hien 60-Cycie Voiraces

Within the last few years the work has been extended to voltages
of 1,000,000 volts above ground, 1,500,000 single-phase and over

*This report is a nontechnical summary of two papers, High Voltage Phenomena,
Journal of Franklin Institute, January, 1924, and Lightning, an address delivered at the
centenary of the Franklin Institute, September, 1924, and in the Journal in February,
1925. Complete technical information and data will be found in these papers.

169
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

1,000,000 3-phase 60-cycle root mean square values.* It was of inter-
est to find if the laws and curves established at the lower voltages
still applied at the very high voltages. The results of some of the
very high 60-cycle tests will now be described.

CORONA :

When voltage is applied between certain types of conductors, as,
for instance, parallel wires a considerable distance apart compared
to their diameters, and is gradually increased, a crown of light sud-
denly bursts out around the conductors at a very definite critical
voltage. The light is accompanied by a hissing noise. ‘This is called
corona. As the voltage is increased, the corona extends farther and
farther out until finally a spark extends from metal to metal. The
air is said to be ionized in the corona brush. The sudden outburst
occurs when the voltage gradient at the conductor surface, where
it is greatest, is sufficient to bring the ions and electrons up to sufli-
cient velocity in their mean free path to produce others by collision
with atoms. Certain chemical changes take place in the air in the for-
mation of ozone and nitrous oxides. Corona and brush discharges are
the same phenomena. In fact, corona and spark-over are also the
same. The brush or corona are sparks to space. On relatively large
electrodes placed close together, the intermediate corona can not form
and the first evidence of over stress is a spark between conductors,
The reason for this is known. With certain conductor configurations
any increase in the conductor diameter tends to reduce the stress.
The corona extends out and stops when the diameter is such that the
stress is below the breakdown stress. With other types of electrodes,
an increase in diameter tends to increase the stress. A brush once
started must, therefore, extend directly between electrodes. The
first type is changed into the second type with increasing voltage
and the resulting extension of corona.

Corona starts at a very definite voltage. Several years ago a
law was established for calculating this critical starting voltage
for parallel wires based upon tests up to 250,000 volts. The factors
determining the critical voltage are diameter, spacing, roughness
of surface, and temy, rature and barometric pressure. The diameter
of the conductor is the most important factor. A law was also
established to predetermine the loss caused by corona. There is
no appreciable loss until the critical voltage is reached. The loss
then increases as the square of the excess voltage above the critical
voltage.

* The single-phase tests have just recently (Oct. 8, 1925) been carried to approximately
2,200,000 root mean square or over 3,000,000 crest.
LIGHTNING—PEEK rt

The mechanism of the corona is of extreme theoretical interest.
There is also a practical interest because the laws of corona are
very important in the design of high-voltage transmission lines.
It is important to select the conductors so that a large percentage
of the energy is not lost in the corona. A physical idea of what
this means may be of interest. A 220,000-volt transmission line
requires a conductor about 1 inch in diameter to prevent corona
loss, while a million-volt line would require a conductor about 6.5
inches in diameter.

High voltages are economical when there is considerable power
to transmit a considerable distance; 220,000 volts is economical
when power of the order of 50,000 to 100,000 kilowatts is available
to transmit distances of the order of 200 miles. With a million
volts it would be possible to transmit 3,000,000 kilowatts 1,000 miles
with about 12 per cent loss, using copper section equivalent to
the 1 inch, 220-Kyv. cable. The copper would of necessity be put
in the form of a hollow tube to obtain the 6.5 inches diameter re-
quired by corona loss. There is, at present, no apparent economic
need for 1,000,000-volt transmission.

The laws of corona established at the lower voltages were found
to hold at the higher voltages.

Figure 1 shows the corona discharge from one of two parallel
wires, while Table 1 shows good agreement between measured and
calculated corona starting voltages for different electrodes.

TABLE 1.—Corona on parallel brass tubes (60 cycles).

|
Spacing Visual corona voltages |
Ky. effective. 6=1.00 |

Tnches Cm. Caleutated: Observed |

DIAMETER 3.5 INCHES=8.9 CM.

75. 5 192 790 | 730
111.5 283 876 895
147.5 375 915 915 |
183. 5 466 990 950, |

|
|

DIAMETER 1.75 INCHES=4.45 CM.

Ter 188 490 | 490
109.7 275 538i 560
145.7 568i 600
183. 5 463 604 | 675

DIAMETER 1.0 INCH=2.54 CM.

73 | 185 B40) S| 370
277 364 380
181 | 460 402 415

[72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
SPARK-OVER

The sparking distance between electrodes has been used for meas-
uring high voltages.

A study of sparking distance is also of considerable theoretical
interest and of practical interest in electrical design. It is neces-
sary to know the sparking distances in order to supply sufficient
clearances. The actual length of the spark for a given voltage de-
pends upon the electrodes used and the temperature and barometric
pressures.

A given voltage will spark the greatest distance between needle
points and the minimum distance between planes and large spheres.

; pj Ue a Wa eR i
el 2 ge ga alae adel Aneeee

‘sire

a8 754 vit

Sail (ald

: fad
ra

MILOVOLTS EFFECTIVE

¥ie, 3

This follows because the electrical stress is very unevenly distributed
on the dielectric for needles and quite evenly distributed for spheres.
For needles, the stress is greatest at the points where a corona
brush always occurs at voltages much lower than the sparking
voltages.

Tests at the very high voltages show that the laws and curves
established at the lower voltages still hold. This is best illustrated
in the curves that follow.

NEEDLE GAP

The needle gap spark-over curve is given in Figure 2 up to
1,500,000 volts effective. It will be noted that the curve is continu-
ous from the low to high voltages. There is considerable variation in
LIGHTNING—PEEK 173

this curve with atmospheric conditions. Figure 3 shows a single-
phase spark-over at 1,500,000 volts.

SPHERES

The spark-over voltage curve for spheres is given in Figure 4.
The values follow the equation established at the lower voltage.

INSULATOR SPARK-OVER

Figure 5 gives the spark-over values for standard 10-inch disk-
suspension insulators. The curves are continuous from the lowest
voltage to the highest voltage.

THREE-PHASEHE ARCS

Power is usually transmitted three-phase. Investigations were
made of three-phase arcs. The standard arrangement was to place
the three electrodes in the corners of an equilateral triangle.

The pecularities of the three-phase are and corona are that the
voltages are usually lower than for single-phase; the spark forms
in a Y if there is no dissymetry; the spark does not take place at
the instant of maximum voltage between conductors but at the
maximum voltage to neutral. A three-phase arc is shown in Fig-
ure 6.

The 60-cycle alternating-current arc passes through zero and
maximum current 120 times a second. When the arc forms it rises
due to the heat. This motion, together with the alternating current,
causes the beautiful lace-lhke appearance of the arcs. The bright
lines occur at maximum current.

PRACTICAL VALUE OF HIGH VOLTAGES

In addition to its purely theoretical and scientific value just dis-
cussed the production of a million volts also has a practical value.
The immediate practical value is its use in testing 220-kv. apparatus
with the required factors of safety. With the future in mind it is
important to learn how to build transformers best suited for oper-
ating at voltages higher than those used at present. Even the so-
called theoretical investigations of the present become the practical
applications of the future.

PREDATORY VOLTAGES

The discussion so far has been limited to the useful type of volt-
age used in transmitting energy. The practical value of the re-
search was to learn how to use these voltages without loss of energy

y
a
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

= ols over - 75cm. sphere

1100

1000

7
9
s
~
U
S
ul sy mh &
9 aA Drawn Curve Calcuiated
aan bs & | | Points — Measured Values |]
at 74 PP a 9
ee)
2 sok A
war al ate bse
rool fale
100 j |
0, 10-20. 30. 40... 50; 60) iy 60 oan
Spacing Cm.
Fic. 4

err

SigsAl tla We

= eee : | Insulator Spark-over
A, vali 10"(25 20, Diameter p gapen ste
Aa Rie Sine Waver6O:Cycle i Hective
Att Points o = Both Sides Insulated

0 et | | | ie ieee BA One Side Grounded
P uieas io, U AS. cic he One peek

No. pie in String.

Fig. 5
FiG. |.-APPEARANCE OF CORONA ON CONDUCTORS AT SUPERVOLTAGES
UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS

A, 900 kv.; 3.5-inch tube; 144-inch spacing. B, 800 kv.: 1.75-inch tube: 144-inch spacing.
C, 500 kv.; 1-inch tube; 72-inch spacing D, 780 ky.; l-inch tube; 108-inch spacing.
EF, 800 ky.: 0.040-inch tube; 144-inch spacing.
Smithsonian Report, 1925 Pesk PLATE 2

FIG. 3.—PHOTOGRAPH OF 1,599,009 VOLTS EFFECTIVE, OR 2,100,000 VOLTS
MAXIMUM, SINGLE-PHASE ARC BETWEEN POINTS. DISTANCE=14 FEET.
690 CYCLES
PLATE 3

1925.—Peek

Report,

Smithsonian

: Vet att \
zadad! wb.

i Maasai Time A
myiyttrr peeveeeyes _ Rath edhe
{AEE MMAR, WAKA
SAASAMMNL) Leng 8601 144;
sosgsenge) Cogeevet/

seerteaee

tdi] CAMMEASLS/ eeeeasrss
TOC SOPTENTEG FERRET EL) 7°

i Adbbbbie

wi THEM ARNE,

Tin enhbbbaak

ANNA SARA ms \

jaiidifill \idlaidh dada

THR, Asai VARA

USED TO PRODUCE

ARTIFICAL LIGHTNING

)
i

FIG. 7.—LIGHTNING GENERATOR

SINE WAVE,
IN AN EQuI-

60 CYCLES,

NEEDLES ARRANGED

ONE MILLION VOLTS,

Fic. 6.—THREE-PHASE SPARK-OVER NEEDLES AT
EFFECTIVE.

LATERAL TRIANGLE APPROXIMATELY 9! FEET ON

SIDE

Photo taken at right angles to plane of needle
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE 4

Fic. 8.—Woop SPLIT BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHTNING
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE 5

Fic. 9.—METAL “‘PUNCTURED”’ BY LIGHTNING

HLVd JWVS AHL MO7TN04

JOYUVHOSIG JO SSANXOIHL LON OG S3xOULS BAISSAOONS LVHI
3LON ‘SSYSHdS NZSM1Laa ALON ‘SLNIOd NS3SML3g SANOULS ONIN SLNIOd NS3SML39 3xOuLS
S9YVHOSIG DNINLHDIF-—S] ‘DIS -LHDI LIOA-000‘00S'| 3SY¥YH1—'I| “DIS ONINLHDI7 LIOA-000'00S'| JATDNIS—Ol ‘DIS

9 31LW1d

LIGHTNING—PEEK L%5

into the air and to prevent breakdown by spark-over. In addition
it is necessary to learn how to prevent destruction by certain preda-
tory voltages such as lightning.

LV. LigotTnInG

A lightning stroke is generally thought of as a local but severe
high-voltage discharge from some cloud. As a matter of fact, the
electric energy that manifests itself in the flash is, in the moment
previous to the flash, stored in the surrounding air for a consider-
able distance. The thunder cloud acts as one plate of a huge con-
denser, the earth as the other, while the intervening air is the
insulation. When the voltage between earth and cloud becomes
high enotigh, this insulation breaks down and the energy is dissi-
pated in the short-circuit or lightning flash.

Yhe electrical energy is changed into heat, light, sound, and
chemical energy. ‘The light is seen in the flash, while the sound
is heard as thunder. Thunder is caused by air waves set up by the
explosive nature of the discharge. —

The chemical effects of the lightning stroke are often detected by
our senses in the odor of ozone that is frequently noticeable after
a storm. The chemical changes occur in the path of the discharge.
The two main gases in the air are nitrogen and oxygen. Each
molecule of oxygen is normally made up of two atoms. The electric
field tears these apart. Some of these single atoms recombine in
groups of three. Oxygen with a molecule made up in this way is
called ozone. It is very active chemically because the extra atom
is easily detached. The nitrogen of the air is also made to combine
with the oxygen, producing nitrous oxide and, in the presence of
vapor, nitric acid. Along the discharge path are untold numbers
of electrons and ions—chunks of electricity moving at enormous
velocities.

The voltage between cloud and ground previous to the discharge
causes voltage between different parts of the atmosphere. Right
under the cloud the voltage gradient or the voltage difference per
foot of air measured in a vertical direction may be very high. In
fact, a certain percentage of the lightning voltage exists between
earth and any point above.

Lightning, the disorderly, predatory form of electricity, is dan-
gerous, not because of its enormous energy but because of its enor-
mous power and “ flighty ” habits. The distinction between energy
and power is that energy is measured in kilowatt-seconds or kilowatt-
hours, while power is measured in kilowatts. Kilowatts measure the
rate at which work is being done. If energy is dissipated in a very
short time the power is large and the result an explosion.
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

When lightning strikes an object great damage is generally done.
However, it is not necessary for lightning to actually strike an object
to cause damage. A discharge to earth miay cause sparks in distant
oil tanks or powder mazagines or destructive voltages on transmis-
sion lines. Voltages that occur by this “ wireless” action are said to
be induced.

LIGHTNING RESEARCH

A study of lightning is of scientific importance because there is
manifest in the flash the dynamic effect of the electrons and ions,
the elemental bricks of which it is believed that all matter is made;
it is of engineering importance because an exact knowledge of the
characteristics of lightning will make it possible to protect life,
buildings, powder magazines, oil tanks, and transmission lines against
it. The ideal method of making such a study is by observations of
natural lightning in the field and researches with artificial hghtning
in the laboratory. Such a combined study was made in the laboratory
and in the mountains of Colorado.

TWO MILLION-VOLT LIGHTNING GENERATOR

The artificial hghtning was produced by a lhghtning generator
which supplies 2,000,000 volts above ground, higher than most volt-
ages induced on transmission lines. (See fig. 7.) The discharge
from the lightning generator produces a loud, sharp explosive re-
port, and the power is of the order of millions of kilowatts for a
few millionths of a second. Currents as high as 10,000 amperes
have been obtained. The voltages increase at the rate of millions
of volts per second. In common with natural lightning, artificial
lightning has interesting characteristics.

The large, wooden posts shown in Figure 8 were split by a
1,500,000-volt discharge. Longitudinally through the center of the
stick is a hole of less than one thirty-secondth inch (0.8 mm.) in
diameter. The wood around this hole has a “ fuzzy ” appearance,
but does not appear burned. Immediately after being blown apart
the wood has an odor of the gases of destructive distillation. Ap-
parently these gases are formed suddenly by the discharge, and pro-
duce such high pressures that the wood is blown apart with great
violence.

Even metal may be “ punctured,” as shown in Figure 9. In this
case the metal formed a coating on a glass plate. The lightning
discharge punctured the plate to the metal. The holes were appar-
ently caused by the sudden formation of gases between the metal
and the glass. A discharge striking through water disrupts it in
much the same manner as oil is disrupted at 60-cycle voltages.

ee 9
LIGHTNING—PEEK 177

When lightning strikes the earth at some sandy spot its path is
often defined by a glasslike tube. This tube, which may have
branches like a tree, is, in fact, sand fused into “glass” by the
lightning current. Such tubes are called “ fulgurites,” and can be
produced by artificial lightning.

Because of the transient and explosive nature of lightning some
quite unexpected phenomena frequently happen. Data will now be
given on typical types of gaps, the needle gap representing the non-
uniform field type, the sphere gap the uniform field, and the insu-
lator representing the surface discharge.

Figures 10, 11, and 12 give characteristic sparks.

The lightning generator consists of high-capacity condensers just
as in the case of the clouds, only the insulation is glass instead of
air and it is relatively more compact.’ As in the case of the cloud
lightning, the electricity is stored at a relatively slow rate and dis-
charged at an enormously rapid rate in a few millionths of a second.

The lightning generator has been of considerable help in gaining a
knowledge of natural lightning. In fact, it has afforded a means of
estimating the voltage of a real lightning stroke. The means was
very simple and will be cited as an example of the general method of
the research, which was to observe natural lightning and then ob-
serve artificial lightning on models built to scale in the laboratory.
Actually, the function of the model is to solve electrostatic problems
that are difficult to calculate.

THE VOLTAGE AND ENERGY OF NATURAL LIGHTNING

It was shown in the experiments at the very high voltages that
approximately 150,000 volts maximum are required for every foot of
spark. While this rule was found to apply up to the very highest
laboratory voltage of about 3,000,000 maximum, it in itself gave no
assurance that it would apply indefinitely, so that the voltage of
lightning could be found by multiplying the length of the flash by
the factor. However, an experiment which seems to offer an almost
direct means of measuring lightning voltages will be described.
When a lightning flash occurs within a certain distance of a trans-
mission line, a certain percentage of the voltage of the bolt is in-
duced on the line. The voltage of the bolt can not be measured, but
its distance from the line and height of cloud can be estimated.
The actual voltage induced on the line can be measured by gaps or
estimated from insulator flash-overs. The author has measured
lightning voltages on transmission lines in Colorado as high as

8A full technical description of the lightning generator will be found in the papers
referred to in Note 1.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

500,000; insulator flash-overs by lightning have occasionally indi-
cated voltages as high as 1,500,000 or more.

A model was made to scale representing cloud and transmission
line for a certain observed condition. By means of the lightning
generator it was found that when a flash occurred from this model
cloud 1 per cent of its voltage was induced on the model line. But
it is known by observation that the voltage induced on an actual
line under similar conditions is sometimes of the order of 1,000,000.
If this is 1 per cent of the voltage of an actual lightning flash, the
voltage of the flash must be 100,000,000 volts (fig. 13). This gives

Actual Cloud

Induced Voltage
= Measured

On an Actual Line the Voltage Induced by a Lightning Stroke to

Earth may be measured It is also possible to determine the Distances
Indicated. Because of its Nagnitude the Voltage
of the Lightning Stroke, However, cannot
Be Measured By Putting a Voltage Measuring

_. Device Directly Between Cloud and Earth.

Height and
Voltage ===
‘Hnown “Efe For Determining the Voltage of the Actual Light-
= == 1 Voltage ning Stroke, the Following Method is Used.
Distance 1 Measured
Known A Model Line and Cloud to Scale is Constructed
in the Laboratory. By Charaing the Model
Cloud with the Lightaae Generator, The Cloud
Voltage is Known. The Voltage Induced on the Line May be
easured and Expressed as a fatio or in Percent of
the Cloud Voltage. Knowing this Ratio and the Voltage
Induced on the Actual Line, the Voltage of the Actua! Light-
ning. Stroke Can be Readily Calculated. for Heavy Strokes
Under Certain Conditions the Voltage of the Actual Light-
ning Stroke May be of the Order of 100,000,000 Volts.

Fic. 13.—Method of measuring the yoltage of an actual
lightning stroke

a voltage of 100,000 per foot of spark (330 kvy./m.), which, con-
sidering the possible error, indicates that the needle gap-spark
curve may hold even at these extreme voltages. In fact, a value
somewhat lower than the 150,000 volts per foot (495 kv./m.) of the
laboratory would be expected, since the flash starts at the low-air
density of the high altitudes. Time required to discharge would also
indicate a reduced gradient. It has been the opinion of many
observers that the voltage of lightning is relatively low or that the
flash, once started, would extend great distances at low voltages by
some progressive action. Progressive action is readily understood
LIGHTNING—PEEK 179

where the spark takes place over a series of clouds by a multigap
action and can, in fact, be shown in the laboratory. When the
flash is from cloud to ground or from one cloud to another through
clear air, as is usual with lightning, it is not clear how progressive
action can occur. While the field produced by the charge is fairly
uniform, it is probable that at the instant before spark-over a
needlelike streamer forms and breakdown then corresponds to the
needle-gap distance. Needle-gap spark-over requires less than 20
per cent of the 30 kv./cem. required for uniform field. The spark-
ing distance should usually correspond to a continuous voltage,
because there is generally no large transient until after the spark
starts.

It thus appears, by approximately direct measurement, that the
order of voltage of a severe lightning stroke to eround may be

Electric Field and Potentials in Space ane Table
Couesd oy Cnaag occas eZ -Distane e trom Point Voltage Induced
“ » Directly on a Line
as Beneath Cloud gq Twenty tt High
ee OMile l00Kvft. 2000 Kv
/ 4 Mile 31.9 Kvfft 638 Kv.
4 BMile I24kvfft 248 Ky.
: fs pate ty TMile 36 Kv /ft. 72 Ky.
N as Wee Tne Mile 09 Kft 18 Ku
\ / 7
<< hye ~Cloud 1000 feet Above
Ny UAE Te a \ Earth ee 2 |
= Seal NN ‘ ‘\. Potential o
7 ED eS tS ot
RTT AC
CUTE EEA TENA Et iF \
[fey Satie S \
PETAL VAY \ Li \ \
g 2100 Ky g=3l9 is g- =124 Kv. g= =36 Kv
per ft. “per ft. poe ft. per ft.
2 wie ee S
= Ss Ss =
i) st IN ~
Fic. 14

about 100,000,000. This is about one million times the voltage of
the ordinary lighting circuit or one thousand times the voltage of
a very high voltage transmission line. The lightning voltage dur-
ing a storm will, of course, vary over a very wide range, sometimes
much higher but generally lower than the value above. It has been
observed that during a severe thunderstorm there may be many
induced strokes at very low voltages, a less number of moderate
voltages, and so on to very few at the extreme voltages.

It will be noted that the above conditions require a gradient of
100 kv./ft. (830 kv./m.) in the most dense part of the electric field
where the flash occurs and a gradient of less than a third of this
a short distance away. See Figure 14, where the gradients are
given for points near the surface of the earth.

It is estimated from the voltage and the size and height of the
clouds that the current is of the order of 80,000 amperes and the
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

energy 13,500 kilowatt-seconds or 3.8 kilowatt-hours. This energy
is suflicient to operate an automobile about 5 miles or an electric
toaster for a day. Since this energy is dissipated in a very short
time, the power may be several thousand million kilowatts or horse-
power. The effect is thus explosive and destructive.

The discharge of the cloud is probably generally nonoscillatory
and takes place in the manner shown in Figure 15. A convenient
measure of time is the microsecond or milhonth of a second. The

ae GaAi/ x10™° Mjcro Farads
< GOH L= 0.488 x10 Henrys
840
<= 20
0 0
0
~/208 Tl
“082 eee Sia aa Pa
~200 &* a To
200 Os
ox lied
= i
Si Ct
= AD isle
g 50 +
© 40 ral
x fei
20 tli
4p ° as
[3088 5 ua
“160 &
a SEER EE “EEE
eS — PT
° Be ileal aeiet
S/)
x Bh Fcoua ais es
fs OS a r neg
eRe a anil
SCENE EEE EEE FEEH
Bo AEEENSEE EEE EET AEP See
-80 B% |_| NB x R=100 Ohms
“20 SHH oo a
1602 SS
20085 Time in Micro Seconds

Fic, 15.—Transients for ‘‘ cloud” discharge to earth

time of discharge may be very much longer if the resistance of the
path is higher.

It may be of interest to point out that the voltage of the light-
ning generator is about 2 per cent and the power about 0.02 per
cent of natural lightning. This practically corresponds to the light-
ning energy that appears on transmission lines.

LIGHTNING ON TRANSMISSION LINES
Most lightning disturbances on transmission lines occur by elec-

trostatic induction and not by direct stroke. A charged cloud causes
an electrostatic field to earth. Part of the field will terminate on
LIGHTNING—PEEK 181

a transmission line within its area. The line is said to have a
“bound charge.” If the voltage between earth and cloud becomes
high enough, a lightning flash will occur. Although this flash may
be a mile away from the line, the charge on the line is released
and the insulated line increases from earth potential to some value
above with polarity opposite to that of the cloud. An insulated
line can be at earth potential just previous to the discharge because
of the effect of the long part of the line not under the cloud, leak-
age over insulators, or through grounded neutral. A charge of the
same sign as the cloud leaks away leaving a bound charge on the
line with sign opposite to that of the cloud. The line remains at

100 »

Multiply Voltage Scale by 10°
Multiply Voltage Scale by 107

0 re ry a eS Od I a TP
a
Maier lee mehr ta
| SS cd Gi)

alee re ee ee

\ Fall in -Potential of Cloud

for Cloud Voltage
for Line Voltage

20 Bl
i ciate
es
Es Sea
Ber

80
MM WIEIM te beta Meise
Faget a a
(a eee

lic. 16.—Transients for cloud discharge to earth

earth potential until the cloud discharges. The effect is then of a
voltage suddenly applied between line and ground. The voltage of
the line becomes maximum when the cloud voltage becomes zero.
The manner in which the voltage increases on the line with decrease
in voltage on the cloud is shown in Figure 16. The field that ex-
tended between line and cloud now extends between line and ground.
The voltage wave travels over the line at the velocity of light. If
the line insulators are strong enough or have a high enough impulse
ratio, the impulse may travel to the power house to break down
apparatus or to be harmlessly discharged to ground over the ar-
rester, if it has low reactance and low impulse ratio. As this light-
ning wave travels over the line it becomes gradually dissipated
76041—26——_13
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

by losses. The voltage that the line assumes at the instant of a
sudden discharge is that of the equipotential surface at the point
in which the line is located. This is approximately the gradient
in kilovolts per foot times the height in feet. This is a certain
percentage of the voltage of the lightning bolt. In studies in Colo-
rado, as already stated, the author has actually measured induced
lightning voltages on transmission lines as high as 500,000 volts.
Insulator flash-overs have occurred that indicate induced voltages
as high as 1,500,000 volts, although the greater percentage of volt-
ages induced on transmission lines are very much lower than this.
These figures, as already shown, afford a means of estimating the
voltage of a lightning flash.

THE MAXIMUM VOLTAGE ON TRANSMISSION LINES

From the above it is apparent that the maximum lightning voltage
that can appear on a transmission line under given conditions de-
pends directly upon the height of the line. The maximum voltage
that can appear on any line is equal to the maximum possible
gradient of 100 kilovolts per foot or 100,000 volts per foot times the
height of the line in feet. This extreme condition seldom occurs
because it requires the discharge to take place at a very rapid rate in
the immediate vicinity of the line, practically a direct stroke. The
chances of this condition are remote because when the storm center
is only a quarter of a mile away the gradient is reduced to one-third.
It may also be reduced by a slow discharging cloud permitting a
considerable dispersal of the charge along the line. Apparent
gradients of 20,000 to 30,000 volts per foot are fairly common on
actual lines. The tabulation in Figure 14 shows the induced lght-
ning voltages on a 20-foot transmission line at different distances
from the rapidly discharged cloud.

Practically, this shows that a high transmission line is undesir-
able from the lightning standpoint. It also affords a means of
determining the maximum lightning voltage that can appear on a
transmission line. i‘

The maximum voltage induced on the line is 1 or 2 per cent of
the cloud voltage. The energy is of the order of 1,350 watt-seconds.
The character of the discharge is generally impulsive and reaches
its maximum in a few microseconds. In fact, it corresponds closely
to the discharge from the lightning generator in voltage, energy,
and duration.

TRAVEL OF LIGHTNING ON TRANSMISSION LINES

A lightning disturbance travels over the line at the velocity of
light, and is dissipated to a considerable extent by losses; it may
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE 7

a
:
8
&
s

s

sz
=
=~

Fic. 18.—STUDY OF THE VOLTAGES INDUCED UPON TRANSMISSION LINES

Photograph shows overhead cloud and a section to scale of one of the lines studied during the
investigation
an Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE 8

Fia. 19.—SHORT SECTION OF A THREE-PHASE LINE WITH OVERHEAD
GROUND WIRE UPON WHICH A STUDY WAS MADE OF INDUCED VOLTAGES
BY LIGHTNING

Photograph shows one of the ‘‘towers’* and one of the spark-gaps used to measure voltage
at this point

Fic. 20.—LIGHTNING STROKES HITTING THE OVERHEAD GROUND WIRE
OF A TRANSMISSION LINE DURING STUDY OF LIGHTNING VOLTAGES
INDUCED ON A THREE-PHASE LINE DURING A STORM
LIGHTNING—PEEK 183

double in value when it strikes the end of the line where it starts
back. If the voltage is high enough it may break down insulators
or discharge over an arrester. If no break occurs it is eventually dis-
sipated by losses. The change in shape and voltage of lightning
waves traveling along transmission lines at 186,000 miles per second
has been measured in the laboratory.

The strength of the insulation of lines operating at various
voltages was determined by measurements with artificial lightning.
By comparing the insulation strength with the maximum lightning
voltage the ability to withstand hghtning was determined.

THE GROUND WIRE

When a grounded wire is placed near and parallel to the trans-
mission wires it has a marked effect on the induced voltages. The
effect of the ground wire was studied on models to scale. The dia-
grammatic arrangement is shown in Figure 17, while the actual
models are shown in Figures 18, 19, and 20.

C= Condenser

Plate Representing
Over-head Cloud

R=Resistance
of Lightning
Path

Model Line

Connections Used in Studying Induced oieaces::
on Transmission Lines
C=/31 X 10~“mf L=288 *10™‘mh
R=5000 Ohms

Tie. 17

The method of making the test was to measure the induced
voltages on the model line with and without a ground wire. In
general the single ground wire reduces the induced lightning voltage
to one-half, two to one-third, and three to one-fourth. Very good
connections must be made to ground. The ground wire thus offers
an important practicable means of reducing lightning voltages.
It is also important in case of a direct stroke, when the ground wire
is struck 98 per cent of the time.

INSULATING A TRANSMISSION LINE TO WITHSTAND LIGHTNING

The investigation has shown the maximum lightning voltages
that can occur on transmission lines with and without a ground
wire. It is of interest to compare these voltages with the lightning
insulator arc-over voltages for modern transmission lines.

The lightning spark-over voltage for insulators and the light-
ning breakdown voltage for insulation is always higher than for
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

steady voltages. In fact, this is true for all transient voltages
that can occur on transmission lines. Rain lowers the arc-over
voltage of insulators at 60 cycles, but does not reduce the lightning
spark-over voltage. The curves of insulator spark-over voltages
for transient and operating conditions are given in Figure 21.

The transient voltage curves cover the range of lightning,
switching surges, and surges due to arcing grounds. The surges
other than lightning are limited in value by the line voltage. Ex-
cept as it is affected by the height of tower, lightning is independent
of line voltage. It is the determining factor in insulation.

ian
$ ESAS SST
§ 800 FEET
Be COV ECP
x En SERZCOG r
8 goo av anraaep ad 20%1 <
POAT OS
500 AC er 1g ais
eA BS
400 aA AL et talelale sh 16-38
PC hk §
300 PAL Be
apeees2rerees "
200 Poteet et ied 228
a HBO HEOROeE Ogee EeReeh
1007 SS 10
4 BPE E EE ee iss rnp sta. 6
O02 FESS 7 So re ees
Number of Units §
Iie. 21

The lightning flash-over voltage of insulators is plotted with
operating voltage in Figure 22. On this same figure are plotted
curves of the probable highest lightning voltage for lines with
and without ground wires. <A direct stroke on a line without a
ground wire causes voltages much higher than the insulator arc-
over voltage. The second curve down represents the usual highest
voltage on a line without a ground wire. It happens that this
same curve corresponds to the voltage by a direct stroke on a
line with one ground wire. This curve crosses the insulator spark-
over voltage of 220 ky. This indicates that a 220-kv. line without
a ground wire is not likely to have insulator trouble from lightning
except in case of direct stroke. It further indicates that a 220-ky.
LIGHTNING—PEEK 185

line with a favorably installed ground wire is not likely to have
trouble from lightning under any circumstances, unless the towers
are very high. ‘The next curve gives the usual highest voltage
for a line with one ground wire. Under usual conditions, very little
trouble should be expected for lines insulated for over 100-kv. opera-
tion. The lowest curve shows that three ground wires reduce the
probability of lightning to still lower operating voltages. The
probability of trouble with direct strokes would be reduced in
proportion.

The values of voltages taken in the above curves are for the
most severe storms directly over exposed lines. Such conditions
might not occur during a year or several years. It is a well-estab-
lished fact that during any storm there are likely to be induced
many low-voltage impulses, a less number of moderate-voltage
impulses, and frequently none at high voltage.

in Kv.

Do

S
S
Ss

Basmals
PT TL et [use see.
SERA a aie eae
i a ea li beans
0 40 80 120 160 200 40 280
Operating Voltage in Kv.

Lightning Voltage

Fic. 22.—Insulator spark-over voltage compared with
maximum lighting voltage for severe storms directly
over the line

Lightning voltages are likely to cause high local stress in induc-
tive apparatus such as transformers. In designing inductive appa-
ratus to withstand lightning voltages, it is important to prevent
concentration of stress. This can be done by means of shields.
Like the ground wire, the action of the shield is preventative.
Shields have been used on both line insulations and transformers.

LIGHTNING ARRESTERS

Preventive methods of guarding against lightning on transmis-
sion lines, such as the ground wire, shields, and extra insulation,
have already been discussed. The remaining method is the light-
ning arrester.

: 2 , : :

The object of the arrester is to permit transient or other excess
voltages to discharge to earth and to suppress the dynamic are that
follows. Since transient currents are generally high, the arrester
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

must have a low resistance. It must also have a low time lag, other-
wise the transient voltage may rise to high values before the dis-
charge occurs.

Figure 22 shows that the need of an arrester becomes less as the
operating voltage increases.

Corona and other losses also rapidly reduce lightning voltages.

OTHER CAUSES OF TROUBLE ON TRANSMISSION LINES

Most troubles on transmission lines are caused either by lightning
voltages in excess of the insulation breakdown voltage or to some
form of dirt that lowers the normal breakdown voltage to such
an extent that failure occurs under normal conditions.

Certain transient voltages are produced in lines during switch-
ing, etc., but these are usually quite harmless.

CORONA AND SPARK OVER OF LIGHTNING VOLTAGES

The corona and spark-over voltages due to lightning are usually
quite different from the continuously applied 60-cycle or direct-
current voltages. This also applies to liquid and solid insulation.
The lightning voltage is a transient or impulse and in effect is ap-
pled at an extremely rapid rate. The insulation does not have
time to break down when its usual breakdown voltage is reached
but the break is completed at a later time when the voltage has
risen to a higher value. The time lag will be discussed. in more
detail later.

CORONA

Lightning voltages cause corona in the same manner as continu-
ously applied voltages. Corona produced by lightning voltages
of less than a microsecond duration (millionth of a second) can
be readily seen. It is also easy to tell whether the impulse is posi-
tive or negative. In general, corona produced by impulse voltages
follows the same law as corona produced by continuously applied
voltages. It is of interest that the eye can readily see corona pro-
duced by voltage of a microsecond duration.

SPARK-OVER OF NEEDLE GAPS

A typical discharge from the lightning generator at 1,500,000
volts between points is shown in Figure 10. The discharge has a
zigzag path and characteristic side flashes of lightning. The light-
ning spark-over curve for needle gap is given in Figure 23. This
curve shows that for the particular impulse used (fig. 24) a voltage
is required approximately 2.25 times the 60-cycle voltage to spark
over a given gap. ‘The factor 2.25 is called the impulse ratio.
iJ

INSTANTANEOUS VOLTAGE IN PERCENT OF MAXIMUM

Los}
~
Q

LIGHTNING—PEEK 187

hg
Re
Esa
le
es
|
aes
re
es

A

ie

Fad

ie

é a

= oll ala i

Stas a
San IS | | ¢
a as ulse Rat =
0 al | al alee
Aneen eos
S Wea %

eI ALES on

ea ean ol igen
-|4- | foe nie.

ft FE

Boe aaa

PRISE
Ae 4

0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
SPARKING DISTANCE IN INCHES

LIGHTNING SPARK-OVER CURVE BETWEEN POINTS
Fie. 23

a i ea he Ep TT
iauueeeee CARS SSS CS ee a

C=1 31x10 Microfarads
L = 2.88x 10“ Milinennes

R50) Ohm io calves

004 008 0.12 016 0.20 0.24 0.28 §=: 0.32 0.36
TIME IN MICRO-SECONDS

20

P|
lhe
0

‘1G. 24.—Wave shape of lightning used in the tests. Wave shape No. 1. Two

million-vyolt impulse generators
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
THE SPHERE GAP

While the impulse spark-over voltage of the needle gap varies
with the wave shape of the impulse and is always higher than the
60-cycle spark over, the sphere gap is very little affected, even for
quite steep waves. The sphere gap thus offers a means of meas-
uring transient voltages over a considerable range. Figure 12 shows
a typical sphere gap spark, and Figure 25 shows that the spark-over

HEBSRERAARRORRE ORR Ee
Py eee Re See A
EEE raha

oid
X 180
§ 160
.
© 40
9
< /20
8 100
4 —s
222 Beal
$ cot,
2 eee
40-4
ae

9
\
N\)
Q
+)
Q
9
~
®
Ke)
S

25 C7. Spheres: Gap l/r Crs.

Fic, 25.—Sphere gap spark-over curves for 60 cycles and for
impulse waves Nos. 1 and 2. Wave No. 1, single half sine wave
impulse ; wave No. 2, impulse with steep front, but with a long
tail. (Drawn curve is for 60 cycles; points are for waves Nos.
1 and 2, as noted.)

voltages for a given gap do not vary over a very wide range of
transients.

LINE INSULATORS

Investigation at the lower voltages showed that the wet and dry
lightning spark-over voltages of insulators were equal. Tests made
at the higher voltages confirm these data. Typical 60-cycle and
lightning arcing characteristics for shielded and nonshielded insu-
lator strings are shown in Figures 27 and 28. The shield consists
of a metal ring at the line end of the string. It serves to distribute
LIGHTNING—PEEK 189

the voltage evenly between the units as well as to direct the arc
away from the string.

These tests are of practical importance, since lightning voltages
higher than these rarely occur on operating transmission lines. The
lightning spark-over voltage was found to be twice the 60-cycle
spark-over voltage. The impulse ratio was increased by the shield.
The wet and dry lightning flashes clear the shielded string while
on the nonshielded string the flash cascades and is likely to rip off
the skirts.

It will be noted that the three typical gap arrangements have dif-
ferent characteristics. Both the needle gap and the insulators
require a lightning voltage about double the 60-cycle voltage to

dere eae
eee

COAT inate leah blog aie Eis ial
eo HEE SEA aeusaoe
ae eee beep 2 gegeET
ee a Anabelle miei bapa a
aaB Avia pal sl
4 20-4 JCaGee Ser news
N Hoe Alcea Ps
Spl ieee eee letatrieet a
Peay DOP énan eS Zee aI
we Eup 4S Pon o eae
S B2deag0P ose epeee rea
Spe ees 7 i cS =
iad aa ria eae ee
8 got] aralalian pales kel a) ctelicl ale bael
alae ee Seca BBSaEe
pa tala PhQOSko eases ees es eee
Pape. UGeeN eae ee TTT a
EA Sie heme psa) sole solar [ale ps4
BA Be
; ise Saale lela ase Le
One 26) BIO Ja 12 16) 18 (20 22.24: Go_2E FO S32

SPICcing : Crs.

lic. 26.—Needle-gap spark-over curves for 60 cycles and for impulse
waves Nos. 1 and 2. Wave No. 1, single half sine wave impulse;
wave No. 2, impulse with steep front, but with a long tail

cause spark over, while the sphere spark-over voltage is the same
for 60-cycle and a wide range of impulse voltages. ‘This character-
istic is of great practical importance, since it is desirable to have
an arrester gap that discharges at a low lightning voltage and to
design insulators that have a high lightning spark-over voltage.
The reason for this is time lag, and it seems worth while to discuss
it briefly.
TIME LAG

A fixed minimum voltage is required to spark over a given gap
when the time of application is not limited. Energy is necessary to
rupture gaseous, liquid, and solid insulation; this introduces a time
element.
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Referring to Figure 29 the spark-over voltage of a given needle
gap is e,, and always practically constant if the time of application
is not limited. Spark over may take place after the continuously
applied voltage e, has been on for some time ¢,. If a voltage increas-
ing at a rapid rate, as represented by A in Figure 29, is applied,
spark over will not take place when the continuously applied spark-
over voltage ¢, is reached, as the time ¢, is required at this voltage.
The spark will begin to form when the voltage reaches the value
é,, however. ‘The voltage will, therefore, rise above e,, and spark
over will take place after the time ¢, has elapsed and the voltage
has risen to e,. When the voltage is applied at a more rapid rate
along wave 4, the spark, as before, will begin to form when voltage
é, is reached. The voltage will continue to rise and reach some

Milovolés

a se

Vive 177? PUiCr0-SCCOMAS

Fic, 29.—Diagrammatic illustration of why the lightning or impulse spark-over
voltage is higher than the continuously applied

value e, during the time ¢, before the spark over occurs. Thus, on
account of the time lag, when voltage is applied at a very rapid rate,
as by an impulse, spark over does not occur when the continuously
applied breakdown voltage is reached. he voltage “overshoots”
this value during the time that rupture is taking place. The excess
in voltage is greater, and the time lag less, the greater the rate of
application. The time lag for any given gap or insulation has thus
not a fixed value but depends on the wave shape of the impulse or
rate of application of the voltage. In making a study of such phe-
nomena it is necessary to use certain definite wave shapes. Figure
30 shows the impulse voltage-time characteristic for needle gaps.
The impulses used in this test were single half cycles of sine waves.
Note that the impulse spark-over voltage is not greatly above the
continuously applied or 60-cycle voltage when the time is over 5
microseconds; that is, when the time of application is comparatively
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE 9

A b G
Fic. 27.—SIXTY-CYCLE SPARK-OVER OF SUSPENSION INSULATOR STRINGS

A, Dryspark-over on a nonshielded string. Note that are cascades badly along the entire
length of string. &, Dry Spark-over on a string shielded with the ring shield. Note that arc
clears string. C, Wet Spark-over on a string shielded with the ring shield. Are starts
through drip then immediately transfer itself clear of string

A B C

Fic. 23.—LIGHTNING SPARK-OVER OF SUSPENSION INSULATOR STRINGS

{, Dry spark-over on a nonshielded string. Note that the arc cascades badly along the entire
length of string. Voltage=1!,200,000 volts. 4, Dry spark-over on a string shielded with the
ring shield. Note that the are clears the string. Voltage=1,200,000 volts. C, Wet spark-over
on a string shielded with the ring shield. Note that are clears the string. Voltage=1,200,006
volts. Note, also, the drip along the string and the raindrops which appear stationary in
space since the light of the are lasted less than a millionth of a second
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek

Fig. 32.—LIGHTNING DOES NOT ALWAYS HIT THE HIGHEST POINT
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Peek PLATE II

Fic. 39.—ARTIFICIAL LIGHTNING STROKE FROM THE 2,000,000-VOLT LIGHT-
NING GENERATOR STRIKING HOUSE AND CHURCH OF MODEL VILLAGE
DURING STUDY OF LIGHTNING PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS
LIGHTNING—PEEK 191

long there may be a considerable variation of this time without an
appreciable change in the spark-over voltage. The continuously
applied (60-cycle, or d—c, where heating does not occur) spark-over
voltage is the lowest voltage at which spark over can take place.

260
aE aa SERESRERERoe
DER EESSeeRae

fo fa sean a ie
Serena screneerssiaae

—

BRASREe Ba BHSaR
GESERRRSSaS aacaee BEEERESa %
Mea cceasnnaesedausneunseeedaseuaseuess

7) 04 28 42 16 20 22 28 a2 36 20
Time tticro-seconds from Zero to 170.x. Along sifle wove

Fic. 30.—Time and voltage to spark over needle gaps with a sine wave impulse
Waves (1) and (2) (fig. 31) show actual wave shapes used in ob-
taining data given in Figures 25 and 26. Wave (1) is equivalent
to a single half cycle of a sine wave; wave (2) rises to a maximum

pg TEERERERRa pian pstuey. apd bor eerie) iol
weoltttt nan Se Seo 000007242883 Ee ee EEE
LUGE aoe tape bs petale ie apeltsh iste td

eo} LAA eSge ooo Se goo o coo: oe eeoee
say cues ttl Gs teeuenee tess bees ooueboGuonsse
wo Wage OOO nna ae es
an 200¢0- 777 aaa
eo ALOE
UE 1S pee ret miele inlet etc

NS; Wore lvo.2 \ | | | 27hn Continvously|_

NSSNNSNS Seem a Aoplied ra

a AN ANN OO WN AOD AA ERA AD ppp aa ee=a

asics ecijetoiets =aaa8
Metals ica | EEE EEE eee

40 yet tt tt

/ ag aN a | EF | UO fafa

HHRERURBER BEREAN eaReee

age Sa PN a ea a a a FL | a

0 AEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE
0 02 0406 08 1/0 2 12 16 48 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 3436 38 40

Tire 177 Micro-seconds

K|7. 31.—Ceontinuously applied and impulse voltages to just cause spark over
of a 10-cm. gap between needles

at the same rate as wave (1) but has a flat top, or is of much longer
duration. Of the two waves shown in Figure 31 the voltage required
to spark over a given gap is higher for the one of shorter duration
or for wave (1). In this figure, where actual test data are given
for a 10-cm. gap between needles, spark over results at 180 kv. for
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

wave (1), while for wave (2) spark over results at 104 kv. The
spark over at 60 cycles is 75 kv. The time that wave (1) is above
the continuously applied breakdown voltage is 0.95 microseconds,
wave (2), 2.70 microseconds. The impulse and continuously applied
needle gap spark-over curves are given in Figure 26. An examina-
tion of Figure 26 shows that the impulse spark-over voltage of
needles is always higher than the continuously apphed spark-over
voltage, for a 10-cm. gap is 180 kv., or 2.4 times the 60-cycle or con-
tinuously applied voltage.

The time to spark over a gap varies with the spacing and shape of
the electrodes. For a given 60-cycle voltage setting the time re-

Fic. 33.—Target made by lightning. No needle

quired to form a spark is greatest for gaps between points and least
for gaps between well-rounded surfaces. For spheres, the time lag
is so small that discharge takes place before the impulse voltage can
rise appreciably above the continuously applied or 60-cycle spark-
over voltage. This is shown in Figure 25, where the drawn curve
is the 60-cycle curve, while the impulse spark-over voltages for waves
(1) and (2) are represented by crosses and triangles.

The needle gap requires the maximum time of any gap, as con-
siderable air must be ionized before spark over can result. Another
way of considering it is that the corona increases the capacity and
places resistance in series with it as it forms. It requires time to
charge a condenser through resistance.
LIGHTNING—PEEK 193

On ihe other hand, spheres are very little affected because corona
does not precede spark over, and the discharge is small and confined
to a short path. The field is very nearly uniform, and ruptures
start everywhere along the path between the electrodes at approxi-
mately the same time.

THE LIGHTNING ROD

A study was made, using models built to scale, to determine
the protective value of lightning rods. In making these tests, volt-
ages varying from 60 cycles to oscillations and impulses were used.
The “clouds” were also varied from a point to a large flat plane.

Wie, 34.—Target made by lightning. 44-inch needle

It seems that all possible conditions were covered by this range,
and since the general behavior of the discharges was the same in
all cases, it is believed the results apply to actual lightning discharges.

In making the tests the rod was placed in the center of a large
piece of drawing paper on a flat plane. Unless otherwise stated, the
plane was of metal. The cloud was placed above the rod. The tests
show that lightning from a cloud overhead does not always strike
the highest object. The discharges either took place to the rod or
to the plane. When the discharge hit the paper a small hole was
made. A record was thus obtained of the distribution of the dis-
charges. When the cloud was a plane, a small point was placed
at its center to represent the storm center. The apparatus is shown
in Figure 32, while sample charts are shown in Figures 33 and 384.
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
AREA PROTECTED BY A ROD

The general character of the division of hits between a rod and
the surrounding ground is shown in Figure 35. In this specific

e=— Storm Center

a/4 i2 10 8 6

Rod. 33% /

C#2?W864202468 02K

Fic. 35.—Protected area and distribution of hits between rod
and ground for different positions of storm center

example, taken for illustration, the rod is located on a conducting
plane and is 1.85 per cent of the cloud height. In (a), Figure 39,

10
|| | Area Protected by a Lightning Rod

=

x

Si.o

oes BREE ROR ee Steady and Impulse
BANE BNEE GS SOR

S Reo ee
OSs EE 4 60 Cycles
Bo!

a Ps

See

ge5

BS

2 a4

gs3

Sh

gs?

Sy SRR BREE ae
SS a Se
a

0 lak Job debe bold halabalcbeLolial bce oe
0 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22
Height of Rod in percent of Cloud Height

Fre. 36
the storm center is located directly above the rod. Under this

condition 84 per cent of the strokes hit the rod, while 16 per cent
hit the ground approximately as shown in the shaded portion.
LIGHTNING—PEEK 195

There are no ground hits in an area between the rod and four rod
lengths away. This protected area is well illustrated in Figure 34
and seems to hold for all conditions as shown in Figure 36.

The division of hits as the storm center moves away from the rod
is illustrated in (b) and (c) Figure 35. Eventually, a distance is
reached when the rod is no longer struck. This occurs for this
particular rod when the projection of the storm center is about 30
per cent of the cloud height away from the rod. There are no
ground hits closer to the rod than four times its height for the ex-
tremes given in Figure 35.

DIVISION OF HITS BETWEEN ROD AND GROUND FOR DIFFERENT HEIGHTS
OF ROD

The division of hits between a lightning rod and ground, when the
rod is located directly under the storm center, is shown in Figure

JaEwsy Ss

SS 2 ail Bae
; EEE

0). 02 02°06 (08 HOTIZ 14 NG IB 2022-24
Height of Rod in Percent of Cloud Height

Fic. 37.—Division of hits between rod and ground for
different heights of rod

37. When the rod has zero length, 100 per cent of the hits, of
course, must strike the ground. When the height of the rod is 1.1
per cent of the cloud height, the division of hits is equal, while
all of the strokes go to the rod when it is about 2.5 per cent of the
cloud height. Over this range the ground was never hit nearer to
the rod than four times its height.

HITS PER UNIT AREA UNDER A STORM CLOUD

Figure 38 shows the ground hits per unit area at various dis-
tances from rods of different heights. The rods are directly under
the storm center. With rods of zero height 1 per cent of the hits
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

per unit area occur directly under the storm center. The number
of hits per unit area decreases rapidly until there are no hits at
about 25 per cent of the cloud height away from the center. With
a rod 0.6 per cent of the cloud height, 16 per cent of the strokes
strike the rod (fig. 37). There is a protected area where no ground
hits occur (fig. 38). The maximum ground hits per unit area, 0.7
per cent, occur at about 8 per cent of the cloud height from the
center. No ground hits occur at 25 per cent of cloud height from
the center.
CHANCE OF BEING STRUCK

The above data offer a means of estimating the relative chance
of objects of different heights being struck during a thunderstorm

Fae CAST EL ees a Area Preiected iy
S11 0H —f—\ Figures on Curves Give Rod Heights |_| Lightning Rods.
He 4m in Inches or in Percent |_| Hits per Unit Area
SY) PET eT eT TTT TTT TT I per Hundred Strokes.
& iy BEE Eee EEE Ie te oh Sees Under
<E 90 torm Center
S$ “
<> e ee may be read
2 2.80 either directly in
vanes a the inch dimensions
&S 70 of the model or in
$3 | Hip cent of Cloud
o> = er
wy 6
v
$8 5 StH SeeNeSs
eke es oat ie Rocce]
8S ag SE Nase 0eSS85
ee aie = Hee EE Meee
so A Seageueeaea
sn ae
ey
=
GiVs..
Ss
ae 8 9 10 Il Inches
38 15 20 25 SoCloud Height
= Distance of Hits from Rod

Fic. 38

when the cloud is overhead and of sufficient voltage to discharge
to earth.

Assume a cloud 1,000 feet high. A 6-foot man on a plane directly
under the storm center (from fig. 37) would be hit 15 times out of
every 100 strokes, while a 25-foot building would be hit every time.
A man flat on the ground (from fig. 38) would be struck about once
for every hundred strokes. An 18.5 foot building directly under
the storm center would be struck 84 times out of 100 hits. How-
ever, with the storm center moved only 296 feet this building would
not be struck.
LIGHTNING—PEEK 197

These data are useful in determining the best methods of pro-
tection, because they tell what will happen when conditions are such
that discharges can take place to the house or rod under con-
sideration. In other words, the data give the chance of an object
being struck when it is directly under a cloud at sufficient potential
to cause a discharge. To determine the chance of any object being
struck during a year, it is also necessary to know the chance of a
cloud of sufficiently high potential passing over the object. It is
apparent that this chance is usually quite small even when the
object is located on a plane. When mountains, hills, and trees are
added the chance becomes still less.

PROTECTION OF BUILDING

The lightning rod is of real value in preventing or limiting dam-
age when a building is struck. Whether or not it increases the
chance of being struck depends upon circumstances. It is rather
doubtful if it often does, as a chimney, grounded gutter, or water
pipe may be sufficiently conducting to determine the direction of the
stroke.

In deciding upon a lightning rod the economic factor or the cost
of protection must be considered in connection with the probability
of being struck. It seems that the best results can be obtained with
plain inconspicuous rods. Ornate rods or rods with special points
appear to have no advantage. A grounded metal roof would seem
almost ideal protection. Rods should be installed so that side
flashes are not likely to occur to conducting objects inside or outside
of the building. When a building is in an exposed position and
storms frequently pass over it, a more elaborate outlay for protec-
tion would be justified than in the case of an unexposed building.
For instance, a building on a cliff over a valley followed by storms
would be in much greater danger from lightning than a building
located in the valley. This would be especially so if connections
were made from the upper building to water level. Lightning rods
can be arranged to give almost ideal protection when the expense is
warranted. In the case cited above, a lightning rod located on the
cliff would give good protection to buildings in the valley. It is
probable that except for buildings in exposed positions and for
special cases as magazines or oil tanks, the cost of even an inexpen-
sive rod is not warranted from the standpoint of the cost of in-
surance.

SPARKS INSIDE OF METAL TANKS

Tests have been made to determine if it is possible to cause sparks
inside of metal tanks or cans by direct stroke or by electromagnetic
76041—26——_14
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

induction or electrostatic induction. It has not yet been possible to
obtain sparks between points within a completely closed metal tank.
Under certain conditions small sparks have been obtained by electro-
magnetic induction between points in partly inclosed metal struc-
tures. Sparks are readily obtained within tanks from a grounded
conductor brought in from the outside when it is slightly insulated
from the tank by oxide or otherwise. The spark occurs by electro-
static induction or when either the wire or tank is struck. This is
interesting in that sparks may be obtained from a grounded con-
ductor.

The above experiments have a practical value, because they show
the danger of any lead-in conductors to oil tanks or magazines.
They also illustrate the importance of having no projections within
a tank. For instance, a metal rivet insulated from a tank by oxide
might cause a sufficient spark to ignite gases within the tank.
Grounded gauge chains could readily cause internal sparks.

FIRES BY LIGHTNING

It is quite possible to cause fires by lightning by sparks between
isolated metal parts even when direct strokes do not occur. Some
model bales of cotton were placed under the model cloud. It was
found that the cotton could be ignited by sparks electrostatically
induced between the metal bonding strips.
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS?

A LECTURE DELIVERED IN HONOR OF PROF. BOHUSLAV BRAUNER

By G. URBAIN

The Czech Nation, free and enthusiastic, after the long eclipse
which it suffered, has resumed again the temporarily broken thread
of its glorious past. It has regained its political, economical, and
intellectual liberty. Its traditional genius has broken its shackles.
But despite its temporary subjection, it has never ceased to be active.
The flame of its genius has constantly burned, despite the storm
which threatened to extinguish it. Honor will be forever due the
Czech University at Prague which has striven unfalteringly and
without weakness to transmit it to the present generation.

Bohuslav Brauner must be cited among those who have devoted
their lives and energy to the sacred cause of greatness, of conserva-
tion of ideals, and of progress in the domain of physical chemistry.
Among the chemists of other lands, friends of the Czechs, his name
is symbolic of the scientific acumen of a race which can be unhappy
with nobility, and being insuppressible, can not be enslaved.
Surely the name of Bohuslav Brauner belongs to international
scicnce; but to French ears it has a certain vigor, suggesting intel-
lectual independence, which is thoroughly Czech.

For a quarter of a century, my dear Brauner, we have been related
in scientific and personal friendship. Thus I have been able to
appreciate the grandeur of your vision, the integrity of your charac-
ter, and the many other qualities that I could enumerate did I not
fear to hurt your modesty. I will at present speak solely of your
scientific attainments.

An idealist, you have good taste to the highest degree, and your
disinterestedness is absolute. In an epoch when the spirit is at
times too practical you set a high standard. You love science for
itself, for what it reveals of the illimitable riches of the universe,
for what it contains of harmony and logic. The solution of the
problems which nature sets for us arouses in you true philosophic
thought. Most of us are concerned with what science can do to

1 Translated by permission from Recueil des travaux chimiques des Pays Bas, 44,
pp. 281-804, 1925,

199
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

help industry, seeking only for special results. Your enthusiastic
and generous spirit cares only for knowledge. It was for that rea-
son that when as a young man I had the good fortune of making
your acquaintance, I was charmed at first sight. Our long corre-
spondence, far from altering those first impressions, confirmed them
into a definite judgment.

None of the large currents of ideas which have furrowed the
scientific onward flow of our times has found you indifferent. You
have been interested in all of them; have followed them when you
have not been in the front. It has been not only with kindliness
that you have looked into the first researches of the younger scien-
tists. From my own experience, you have not been sparing in your
encouragement and have guided them with good counsel. In science
you have been not only a creator but also an inspirer. Your per-
sonal influence has passed beyond the frontiers of your land. In-
spirer—that is the title which fits you, for it hints the radiance of
a creative power.

A savant, without doubt, can know of no greater joy than to see
assembled about him in worshipful mood his disciples and friends.
I bring to you, my dear Brauner, not only proof of my own per-
sonal admiration and affection but also that of a great number of
distant friends. The Chemical Society of France expresses through
my voice the feelings they have for their honorary member. I am
very proud of this mission as the authorized representative of this
French society, for within it has been developed during more than
half a century a large share of international chemistry. On many
an occasion there has been presented before it to the scientific world
important results due to Czech researches. It pays homage to
your scientific work and takes pleasure in giving you public testi-
mony of its great esteem. This homage is addressed to you very
personally; it would have been given without regard to nationality.
But the French have always been friends of the Czechs, and
to-day that friendship is doubled through an alliance, a reciprocal
gauge of security. Now that a sincere desire for peace and justice
at last appears to influence the world, such an alliance should prove
a mutual aid in the economical and intellectual evolution of the two
peoples. The French chemists wish to forge between themselves
and the Czech chemists intimate bonds passing the bounds of
friendly courtesy. They feel convinced that you share the desire.
Such intimacy will favor the growth of international science and
through that aid in the development in all nations of the germs of
reciprocal esteem.

Finally, the president of the International Commission of Ele-
ments renders homage to its dean, who has been one of the most
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 201

active members and who inaugurated the era of high precision in
the determination of atomic weights.

Your work upon atomic weights is universally appreciated and
probably better known than that upon the rare earths. Its ob-
jective is broader. Your merit and high scientific acumen came
into relief with the publication of your admirable study of atomic
weights found at the beginning of Abege’s Encyclopedia of Physi-
cal Chemistry. What striking honor this was to a Czech scientist.

The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry bore
in mind this work at the very outset when they came to naming
the members of the Commission on Chemical Elements and later
when choosing the president of the subcommittee on atomic weights.
I recall that Guye, whose ideas upon atomic weights did not wholly
agree with yours, insisted that the presidency be given to you.
Such acts of courtesy in all impartiality on the part of opponents
show the value of a man. The two incidents just recalled show
how universally you are recognized as the master in the domain
of atomic weights.

An especially important task devolves upon the president of the
commission. He drafts the report and prepares the table of inter-
national atomic weights. He must know the relations existing be-
tween the diverse atomic weights and judge their relative impor-
tance. He must be able to appreciate the relative worth of the
values determined by various men. To bring such a delicate task
to a proper conclusion requires good scientific judgment, a judicious,
eritical spirit, and an impartiality overlooking the rivalry of differ-
ing schools.

Now, shall we recall briefly our common recollections of the won-
derful journey which we have made through contemporary scientific
history, more especially through the domain of the chemical ele-
ments? In an epoch when time is no longer considered as immutable,
we have surely lived existences which, measured by the importance
and number of events which we have seen unroll before our eyes,
have been the equivalent of several generations. Judging by you
(Brauner) the limit of the youth of the spirit has been greatly ex-
tended. Scientific evolution has been a part of the change. Our
times are privileged. They have seen many important problems pro-
posed, a number of which have had surprising solutions. We have
traversed the enormous distance which separates the elements of
Lavoisier and of Berzilius from the isotopic constellations of Aston.
With Bunsen you saw the birth of the first spectroscopic elements
in the flame. You have contributed to the genesis of those elements
recognized through their absorption spectra, for you were the first
to see the element called praseodymium. A collective error, which
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

I hope is passing, does not attribute to you the fatherhood of it, but
when the history of the element is written completely and impar-
tially, full credit will be given to your name.

With Crookes you knew the phosphorescent elements in the cath-
ode rays; with Lecoq de Boisbaudran, you saw those revealed by
the induction spark. In the are spectrum you witnessed the birth of
luticium. With Ramsay you saw the ninth column come into the
classification of Mendeleeff, for the existence of which you have vic-
toriously fought. In helium, neon, argon, krypton, and xenon you
knew the astonishment which the existence of chemically inert ele-
ments aroused.

At that time we considered our chemical elements eternal, immut-
able. Doubtless we need not have been deeply philosophical to have
recognized in the doctrine of Mendeleeff the thread of an evolution-
ary theory such as then dominated science and of which Lamarck and
Darwin were the promoters. Was Mendeleeff really an evolutionist
as to the chemical elements? I would not dare to affirm it, not
having read all that this genial Slav scientist has written. I have
known him only through what has been more or less correctly trans-
lated into French. But you should know and doubtless are the only
one who could settle the point. On my part I have always thought
that he was. For how can one know the analogies which Mendeleeff’s
table brings into relief, how recognize the family traits, those inti-
mate relationships of chemical characters and physical properties,
without supposing some mode of birth which requires certain ele-
ments to be like brothers and certain others to be like more distant
relatives? Have not you and Mendeleeff added something to science
which is not read in the printed text but which may be read between
the lines? I am disposed to see here the source of that contagious
enthusiasm which the periodic system has inspired in you. You
should have been prepared to admit that chemical elements are born
and die. But before photography and electrometry had given,
through H. Becquerel, Pierre and Mme. Curie, their marvelous dis-
covery of the radioactive elements, the evolution of elements could
have been only a philosophical hypothesis with no real experimental
foundation. With radium transforming into the gas radon, with
radon in turn changing into other new elements themselves radio-
active, the hypothesis of the evolution of the elements becomes a
reality. The chemical elements lose their immutability, are no longer
dead as considered by the scientists of the era just passed. They
enter into an active life.

The old philosophical dream of our medieval ancestors comes from
the distant past into a wonderful reality. We would be tempted
to cry “miracle” were we not preoccupied with consigning to the
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 203

dump the ideas which these discoveries have rendered obsolete. We
are indeed fortunate in having witnessed such great events.

I was especially privileged, for with my own eyes I saw the ele-

ment radium born. Pierre Curie was my teacher, and gave me the
incomparable honor of his confidence and friendship. I have seen
Mme. Curie working like a man with great masses of pitchblende.
I saw the first separation of the bromides of barium and radium; I
saw the radiferous crystals shining in the darkness before the spec-
trum of radium had been observed. Every Sunday I went with
Langevin, Perrin, Debierne, Cotton, and Sagnac into the modest
home of Curie which then changed into a kind of intimate academy.
There the master with his customary simplicity told his ideas and
was as willing to discuss ours. What great problems we debated.
The behavior of radium brought into question ideas which had be-
come classic. The continuous delivery of energy from radium con-
tradicted our fundamental scientific notions. Must we renounce the
principle of the conservation of energy, for we then thought that
radium remained unchanged? Were we to admit that radium con-
tinuously set free energy without the loss of any part of itself?
Does its substance vanish in radiation? And if energy and matter
are but different aspects of a same invariant must we give up the
principle of the conservation of matter, that great principle of
Lavoisier which we have considered the corner stone of chemical
science ?
- Pierre Curie desired to avoid destroying such fertile principles.
He leaned toward an interpretation which while respecting the
work of the past, yet might account for the future. In the end,
radium became for him—an hypothesis which has been recently
revived by J. Perrin—not a generator but a transformer of energy.
This element held captive a yet unknown form of energy and meta-
morphosed it in the a, 8, and y rays. But when Curie, with Mime.
Curie, discovered the so-called radioactive deposits, which he called
“induced radioactivity,” it was evident that radium itself must
undergo change.

When Curie ‘found that radium continuously set free heat we
were forced to believe in the failure of the conservation of energy.
When his little electroscope automatically charged and discharged
itself in the presence of radium, producing work at a constant tem-
perature, we had to believe in the failure of Carnot’s principle.
If we rejected the spontaneous transformation of radium into other
elements, we became party to the bankruptcy of thermodynamics.
But the emanation (radon), which had the characteristics of a new
chemical element, was evidently generated from radium. ‘This ema-
nation disappeared spontaneously, little by little, to appear as radio-
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

active deposits and helrum. ‘The principles of thermodynamics came
safe and sound out of the fray, but that of the immutability of the
elements was moribund.

We distinguish between elements which show radioactive charac-
teristics and those which do not. It is nevertheless true that the
radioactive ones are elements, and therefore we can not hold that
elements are immutable.

The theory of the disintegration of radioactive bodies, due to Sir
Ernest Rutherford, justly dominates modern science. ‘The ideas
which he postulates are to-day solidly founded. The phenomenon
of spontaneous radioactivity is interpreted as the projection out of
the atomic nucleus of an electron, a helium ion.

The electron, the carrier of the 8 radiation in which matter and
negative electricity are identical, is now the smallest mass of matter
known to science. Its mass at rest is one thousand eight hundred
times less than that of the hydrogen atom. It plays a part in a
great number of material phenomena not related to radioactivity.
There is no chemical element which can not liberate electrons detect-
able by electrometric means. It is apparently a universal constitu-
ent of matter.

The helium ions which constitute the a rays have a mass approxi-
mately that of a helium atom and each carries two elementary elec-
tric charges equal except in sign to that of the electron. They can
not be considered a universal constituent of matter, since all the
atomic weights are not even approximately multiples of four. There
is a tendency to consider them as being themselves composed of four
hydrogen nuclei (or protons, actual atoms of positive electricity),
representing four charges, and associated in the helium ion with
two electrons for the necessary intra-atomic binding field of force.
Hence the hydrogen ion or proton may be considered the second
universal constituent of matter. Electrons and protons suffice to
make up the assemblages which are our chemical atoms. This man-
ner of postulating the building of the universe is admirable. It
satisfies at the same time both the scientist and the philosopher.
Its scientific character is undeniable. The existence of electrons is
certain; they have been isolated by the most diverse methods, to
which I believe there can be no serious objection.

The reality of protons is less certain. They must go through sev-
eral small formalities before they are accepted in scientific society.
They are tolerated, since their existence fills certain needs.

Only a little while ago several physicists were disposed to postu-
late that matter was composed exclusively of electrons. But it is
difficult to conceive how masses of negative electricity could build
neutral atoms and molecules. Positive electricity remains an
enigma. It seems logically necessary that material negative par-
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 205

ticles must have neutralizing positive particles. The a particles of
radioactivity seem to reveal such elementary masses, but we are still
at a loss, for their mass is manifestly too great.

Sir Ernest Rutherford, to whom we owe what is basic in our
actual ideas about atoms, noted that the a-radiation is the most
powerful form’ of energy at our disposal. This led him to con-
ceive the bombardment of the atomic structure with them. It is
useless here to go into the details of his experiments with which
you, my dear Brauner, are familiar. You know that by an irre-
futable interpretation of the observed facts in the case of nitrogen,
phosphorus, and several other elements, the atomic citadels had
been breached by these projectiles and that the splinters resulting
from the consequent explosions could be nought else but hydrogen
ions. In thus declaring war upon the stable atoms, Rutherford
formed a new branch of science showing artificial radioactivity,
one of the greatest discoveries of our extraordinary epoch.

These experiments show that protons must be a constituent of
some atoms, but it does not follow that they are a universal con-
stituent of matter. But do you not think that at least provisionally
we may accord them this privilege? If you make this concession
we may mix with strict science a little pleasant philosophy: This
existence of two chemical elements, the electron and the proton, out
of which everything in the tniverse is made.

As to the simplicity of its conceptions, modern science thus rivals
that of Aristotle. The ancients postulated four elements, we admit
only two. The atoms of Lucretius have become a little complicated
and those of Dalton have lost their primitive simplicity. Science
has gained in unity and has to a certain degree attained the ideal
which it has sought with varying fortune for 3,000 years.

Yet, though the universe has been reduced thus to two constit-
uents, and the electrons and protons occur as the simplest reduc-
tion of our ideas, it does not follow that those ideas are perfectly
clear. Berzilius, subsequent to the beautiful experiment of Davy,
tried to explain matter through electricity and fabricated for the
purpose one of the most curious syntheses which the annals of
physical chemistry contains. I allude to his electrochemical theory
of which the classification will remain an eternal monument. He
knew nothing of the nature of electricity; for this he depended
upon the wisdom of future physicists. We physical chemists of
to-day do not tell what matter nor what electricity is. We merely
know them as phenomena. The least metaphysical among us see
in electrons and protons merely centers of convergence of lines of
force. That evidently explains nothing fundamental. It makes for
us a world formed of minute hairy points, the hairs strikingly
abstract, only indicating to us the possibility of some phenomena.
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Frankly, electrons and protons are monads. Leibnits thus lives
again in modern science as Lucretius did in the science of Dalton.

I beg you see no blame in what I have just said. It is not neces-
sary, it is perhaps impossible, that we should understand every-
thing. The penetration of human insight possibly has limits. We
should not expect present science to explain everything. Knowl-
edge we should have. It should allow us to predict. Our ideas as
to what is comprehensible or absurd are doubtless hereditary habits
of our intellect. It is fortunate that science does not halt because
of such considerations; it would then repulse as incomprehensible
Newton’s theories of actions at a distance, as the Cartesians did.
Doubtless, the mathematician would never have had imaginary
quantities which, being inconceivable, would be neither more nox
less than absurd.

In the evolution of scientific theories there are surprising enough
changes in the point of view. Take, for instance, Fresnel’s optics
where the hight phenomena were pictured as analogous to the mo-
tions of the pendulum. ‘The model expresses laws the phenomena
show. ‘The aptness of the explanation resulted from the closeness
of the analogy. Imagination was satisfied. Then there is the
reality which we were prone to accord to the ether of physics. But
the younger school of physicists are against the ether because at the
same time it must be more fluid than any gas and more rigid than
steel. They look upon it as a resurrection into modern science of a
fossil remain of the ancient fluids. They prefer to replace it by the
equations of Maxwell or something as subjective. I wish that we
might thus gain in reality what we lose in simplicity, but we must
confess that there is nothing to be hoped for from the change.

As to the atom, have we attained something real or only a model
symbolic of observed phenomena? It is difficult to say. The
model which Bohr has elaborated from that of Rutherford shocks
our former beliefs. For the electricity which circulates in the
form of exterior electrons in that atom, does not obey the ordinary
experimental laws of electricity in motion. We had learned that
a displacement of an electrical charge is accompanied by radiation.
But Bohr postulates privileged orbits wherein the exterior electrons
may circulate without radiating.

Bohr, in making this hypothesis, breaks with a tradition of which
no theorist has dared to neglect the laws. His immediate prede-
cessor, Rutherford, had allowed the electrons to radiate since it was
supposed the model must obey the standard laws. Bohr’s models
have their own laws with no necessary relation to the laws of ordi-
nary experiments, and he thus turned scientific thought into a new
and unknown direction. ‘The models lose the explanatory charac-
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS——URBAIN 207

ter we had expected of them. Bohr’s atom is not a clear explana-
tion, for the privileged orbits are not understandable in themselves;
neither are the “quanta of energy,” set free by the electrons in
leaping from one privileged orbit to another. In the future are
theories to be built upon such contradictions ?

The atom of Rutherford, which is otherwise satisfactory, has the
objection of unceasing radiation. In time it should wear itself out.
Each outer electron must gradually approach the central nucleus
of the atom, finally falling into it, which means its death. Of
course, we must resign ourselves to death. We might have accepted
the death of the stars without the optimistic invention of Arrhenius,
but we can not that of the atoms; that would mean a definite
end of the universe which we find it comforting to look upon as
eternal. Bohr, in revivifying our hopes, is a great benefactor. Fur-
ther, if the electron revolving about the positive center of the atom
radiated constantly, matter should be always luminous, which is far
from the fact. This seems a critical objection.

It seems necessary either to resign ourselves to not understand-
ing, as Bohr has done, or to resign ourselves to a model in flagrant
violation with experience. There is no doubt as to our choice. To
one who finds fault that the electrons in their privileged orbits do
not obey the laws of electromagnetism, we may reply that so far
as known these laws relate only to large-scale phenomena. They
may not apply to the electron or to the atom, but only statistically
when a large number of them are under consideration. Men en-
dowed with excellent individual qualities may make detestable
crowds. Atomists take the Carnot principle as a collective law for
which the little demon of Maxwell* has no power. Thus Bohr may
be less revolutionary than he seems at first sight. He can intrench
himself behind an illustrious precedent.

Our ideas relative to the older elements, which are really not ele-
mentary, have not reached the end of their vicissitudes. Radicals
composed of electrons and protons they may be. On such terms
they have lost nothing of their older significance in chemistry.
Chemistry ceases to concern itself with the primary elementary
forms. Its domain henceforth is one of secondary combinations
now that its ancient elements have become divisible and composite.

It might be more philosophical to enlarge the realm of chemistry
to include not only radioactivity but also electronics. But then
we must cross the barrier which has separated chemistry and
physics. The shadow of Auguste Comte would shake with indig-
nation. The old modes of thought, molded by the routine of

1An imaginary being invented by J. C. Maxwell, who is supposed to witness the
actual working of the law of thermodynamics, and to be able to control it.
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

professional habits, and the purism of academic methods, main-
tained long ago the difference between these two sciences, a dis-
tinction originally drawn by an arbitrary classification which
divided into compartments the continuum of the sciences.

When our knowledge was less, it was easy to give the chemical
elements a simple and apparently decisive definition as Lavoisier
did. To respect his definition, at least formally, it would be neces-
sary to-day to distinguish between two methods of analysis, that
of chemistry and that of physics. To the contingencies involved
in the very nature of things there are then added artificial limita-
tions. When we form a scientific ideal we should weed out these
conditions as much as possible, no matter why they were imposed.

Lavoisier, in order to define a simple body, had to clear away
the vapors of phlogiston and renounce the ideas of a then decrepit
atomism. What would he have thought of our present ideas and
theories? Would the numerous presumptuous accumulations in
favor of the atomic structure suffice to prove its reality to him? He,
and all the encyclopedists of the eighteenth century, would have
reproached us, perhaps, concerning this imagined existence of atoms,
this act of faith.

The atoms, so far as any direct manifestation to our senses is
concerned, will aways elude us because of their extreme minuteness.
We can not ever hope to see them because we know beforehand that
our microscopes, and even our ultramicroscopes, however powerful
they may be, have a very limited magnification which would always
be insufficient. In this direction the matter is definitely settled.
We must be reconciled to the certainty of never seeing them and
be contented to know them through their effects. In taking these
evidences we are like a judge before the accused, and we must fear
errors of judgment. The multiplicity of the accusing evidence is
doubtless very impressive. Is the question clear enough so that
we can give a certain judgment?

We consider effects since they are our sole evidence. Then we
postulate the atom that we may the better interpret these facts—in
no way making the atom a necessary objective reality. Jean Perrin,
who has gone deepest in this matter, has appealed to probabilities.
How did he prove the reality of molecules in his now famous
memoir? Doubtless he has applied very precise exponential laws
resulting from direct experiment. But it was not with molecules
themselves that he experimented, but with colloidal aggregates which
he called composite molecules. Without doubt he may diminish
more and more the diameter of these aggregates, but there remains
a gap between the smallest of them and the molecules which he may
never close. When he counts the molecules in a vertical cylinder of
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 209

hydrogen, it is by following the capricious trajectories of gamboge
particles.

He probably would not have been concerned with this gap in his
demonstration were it not that his scruples made him wish to close
it up. He has accumulated excellent presumptions which he has
attached to these least apparent parts of our universe. He did not
limit himself to those pseudosolutions just mentioned nor to radio-
activity. Following Lord Rayleigh, he asked the question of the
blue of the sky. He gathered 15 independent ways for the determi-
nation of the constant WV, which he modestly called Avogadro’s
number.

His experiments in this direction are doubtless the most extended
that have been made. But he has been able to conclude only that
the existence of molecules, and therefore of atoms, is exceedingly
probable. In reviewing the matter in most diverse aspects he showed
that it is indispensable for coordinating our knowledge. If he has
left an indefinitely small amount of doubt as to the reality of the
molecule and the atom, he has at least made us like them. He
has shown that at present science and poetry—fact and fancy—are
not irreconcilable. He has passed on the tradition of Laplace, of
Alembert, and of Fontenelle. His spirit fraternizes with that of
Lucretius and the bees of Hymettus have placed their honey upon
his lips.

Is it necessary to seek the reality of the atom in the absolute
manner of the philosophers? Are not molecules and atoms syntheses
which embody the fundamental laws of chemistry and a large
part of those of physics? Their reality (as J. Perrin indicated in
the last edition of his book on atoms, pp. 294-295) lies in the rela-
tionships they allow between phenomena which, without them, we
would never coordinate. Were we to strike out to-day from the
scientific vocabulary the terms atoms and molecules, all physical-
chemical science would disappear, leaving only a dry list of facts
impossible to connect one with another.

The reality of the atom is doubtless relative, but it is probably
for the best. It has been justly said that absolute philosophy gives
way more and more to relative science. Time is a good example.
It allows us to give the atom a relative existence.

The extreme complication of modern science carries subtleties
which we who sit on the school benches may ignore. It is repug-
nant to mix these philosophical matters with positive facts. The
facts come to us mixed with no hypotheses, and here we find a
criterion of the truly scientific mind. How difficult it is to attain
it! We are given the definition of a chemical element according
to Lavoisier, but we talk of it in a very different way. The ultimate

210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

term of analysis, the body from which we can take nothing but
itself—all that is far away.

Such a definition can not be taken literally, for then the greater
part of the oxides of the rare earths would be elements, since they
can not be reduced. One rather feels that the definition of an
element should not be submitted to the contingencies of analysis.
We should define elements by characteristics which belong to them
and we have carefully felt our way for a long time through the
uncertainties of analogies. The isolation of an element in its metal-
lic state is no longer necessary to characterize it as an element and
we must have recourse to elementary characteristics. This leads
to two necessary conditions:

(1) All compounds of the same element must have in common cer-
tain characteristics.

(2) Among these we can retain only those which are general.

The lapse of time makes possible an accurate statement of the
problem. In the earlier times to which we have alluded, a more
or less confused intuition served as a guide.

The chemical equivalent, the proportional number, the atomic
weight, call it what you will, is manifestly insufficient because,
though satisfying the two preceding criteria, cited for the case of
pure elements, they also hold for certain compounds, for example,
the rare earths, of which we can measure the molecular weights, a
measure scientifically precise but, in the present instance, of little
meaning except to a specialist. Hence the two conditions given,
though manifestly essential, are not sufficient. It is further neces-
sary that the characteristic be independent of the state of the body
examined. Bunsen discovered in the spectrum the first strictly ele-
mentary characteristic. Until then the elements had been simply
chemically elementary ; henceforth they will be spectroelementary.

The method of flame spectra had an astonishing success. There
came at once the discovery of rubidium, caesium, and then almost
immediately afterwards, of thallium and indium. However, it did
not prove to be a wholly general method. Indeed, there are besides
the alkaline metals and alkaline earths very few elements suscepti-
ble of being revealed by the flame. Do you not recollect that when
Bunsen undertook with Bahr the study of yttria he found only
yttrium and erbium among the elements of Masander? He then
gave all the weight of his authority against the existence of terbium,
a phantom element, denied by Cleve, asserted by Delafontaine, and
which owed its definitive resurrection to Marignac?

The technique of spectrum analysis, then too primitive, needed de-
velopment. Thalen, and then Lecoq de Boisbaudran, had recourse
to the electric spark, which led to a much more general method.
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 211

It seems to me that to Thalen belonged only the credit for better
delineating the group of the rare earths already discovered. Lecoq
de Boisbaudran, an intrepid worker and extraordinary observer,
discovered gallium.

This name, my dear Brauner, should recall the triumph of the
cause which you defended, for gallium seemed to be the eka-
aluminum which Mendeleeff had so exactly predicted. I wasa friend
of Lecog de Boisbaudran. He gave me great encouragement in my
researches on the rare earths at a time when I greatly needed it, for
vou know from your own experience how many such researches are
deceptive and what perseverance they require. Lecoq de Boisbaudran
had genius and a great soul. I have always been surprised that he
opposed to the great foresight of Mendeleeff the very interesting,
but very restricted, personal considerations upon the constitution of
spectra which he asserted had been his only guide in his researches
on gallium. His method of the uncondensed spark allowed him to
place in their proper order gadolinium and ytterbium, which Marig-
nac, the last representative of a brilliant group of chemists, had
discovered by the older methods of pure chemistry.

Marignac would have closed the chapter of the discovery of ele-
ments by purely chemical methods had not Winkler had the good
luck to analyze argyrodite and find in that very rare mineral, ger-
manium in large quantities. Henceforth we will expect to find all
the new elements discovered by the methods of physics, more espe-
cially through spectroscopy, the technique of which has been adopted
in several chemical laboratories.

No one doubts that spectra are well adapted as an elementary
character, presenting characteristics identical in all the combina-
tions and mixtures of an element. There have indeed been attrib-
uted to spectra more value, more constancy than they really have.
All kinds of spectra—those observed in solutions, in phosphorescent
cathode spectra, those in the electric spark between solids in vacuo—
are considered of the same worth as elementary characters.

You, my dear Brauner, inaugurated with the rare earths that
remarkable epoch in which absorption spectra played the principal
part. Then, afterwards, Lecoq de Boisbaudran discovered sama-
rium and Marignac gadolinium while you established the com-
pound nature of didymium.

In 1882 you decided very tardily to publish the results of your
important researches. Certain variations in the absorption spec-
trum of didymium had been noted by such men as Delafontaine,
J. L. Smith, Lecoq de Boisbaudran, and then by Cleve; but they
were inclined to attribute the variations to differences in acidity of
the solutes. - Having eliminated that source of error, you deter-
2123 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

mined that in certain of your fractional solutions of didymium, cer-
tain bands in the blue region—particularly the group of bands,
A—=449 to 443—had a special importance, equaling in intensity the
group in the yellow—A=590 to 568. At first you attributed them
to lanthanum, but later knew that this element took no part in the
phenomenon. Now it is certain that the blue band belongs to pra-
seodymium and the yellow to neodymium. Thus, von Welsbach, to
whom the discovery is generally attributed, was really later than
you in the separation of these two elements. I am not surprised
that the honor of the discovery was attributed to him, for in such
matters the scientific world is indifferent and allows itself to be
misled by appearances.

One would be very incompetent to wrongly estimate the results
of your researches. We forget too often that in order to judge the
value of a discovery it is necessary to consider the conditions under
which it was made and make proper allowance for the progress
science has made since. Within our times ideas have developed
rapidly, and experimental technique has been improved with incon-
ceivable rapidity. The two processes have been mutually helpful.

The 25 years I have spent in the study of the rare earths give
me the right to affirm that it would have been impossible in 1880
to have pushed farther than you did the researches on the separa-
tion of didymium. Didymium was very rare, the methods of frac-
tionization very rudimentary, preventing you from carrying the
separation very far; but that should mean more credit for obtaining
the results then, than for perfecting them later.

Those early days were days of misery in the study of the rare
earths—I have known in comparison only days of relative opulence,
and I salute you, my dear Brauner, one of the pioneers whose work
has always filled me with admiration and profound respect.

Somewhat later there occurred in the domain of the rare earths
a very orgy of spectrum variation. Your immediate successors seem
to have endeavored by their eXcesses to discredit the work of their
predecessors. The spectrum bands seemed to lose all orderliness.
Your neodymium and praseodymium, the samarium and_ the
dysprosium of Lecoq de Boisbaudran, the holmium of Soret and
Marignac (and not of Cleve, to whom it is often attributed), the
erbium of Mosander, and the thulium of Cleve, in short all the ele-
ments of the absorbent-spectra group, seemed to multiply ad infini-
tum. Kriiss and Nilson, H. Becquerel, Crookes, and all the
world with them, noted the variations in the intensity of the differ-
ent absorption bands in ever-changing proportions. Each one
wished to discover and believe he had seen a new element. Such

CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 213

discoveries became so common that instead of names they attributed
provisory notation, be it to the bands or the supposed new element.
When they had used up the Latin alphabet recourse was had to the
Greek which in its turn would apparently fail. The rare earth ele-
ments came in swarms. They became no longer a group but a whole
fog. Finally, since a halt had to be made somewhere, Crookes pro-
nounced his famous aphorism, “a band, an element.”

The subject grew chaotic; but even this chaos was not sufficient.
Spark spectra were brought into the fray. Lecog de Boisbaudran
exhausted the alphabet to z and Demarcay the capitals of the Greek
alphabet. Then the phosphorescent cathode added their quota
which again required the use of two alphabets. It took the bril-
liant imagination of Crookes to build upon his first beautiful dis-
covery the wonderful edifice of meta and ortho elements. Ortho
elements broke up into meta elements. The structure of clear ideas
so carefully built until then was in danger of shipwreck. The
yttria earths, with Crookes at the helm, were sucked into the
whirlpool along with samarium. His fertile imagination amalga-
mated the most bizarre ideas with those of a genius. Departing
from reasonable points of view, he compared spark spectra with
phosphorescent spectra. Experience later refused to justify the step
he then took in assuming that both spectra obeyed the same laws.

Since spark spectra augment in intensity with the increase in con-
centration of an element he assumed that the same would happen
with phosphorescent spectra. His conviction was so strong that he
made no experimental trial to justify an analogy which to him
seemed evident. Further, while he was astonished at the sensitive-
ness of his cathode spectra, he did not note that that of the spark
spectra was very limited. Indeed, his technique in the case of spark
spectra differed little from that of Lecoq de Boisbaudran, which did
not permit the observation among the yttria earths of any but gado-
linium, dysprosium, ytterbium, and, of course, yttrium. In fact,
Crookes could observe only yttrium. The spectrum appeared con-
stant to him, while he found great variations in the atomic weight.
From this he felt it right to assert that yttrium, an element as indi-
cated by its spectrum, had a variable atomic weight. He was not
the only one of this opinion. Greatly influenced by Hinrichs, who
criticised severely the work of J. 8. Stas, the dogma of the constancy
of atomic weights singularly staggered in this period of equivoca-
tion. The various portions, in the fractionations of Crookes, iden-
tified by their spark spectra, differed in their phosphorescent spectra.
Therefore they were characterized by Crookes as distinctly different
atoms of the same element. They were called meta elements of
yttrium.

76041—26——15
914 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

It surprises me that Aston considered this theory as a prophetic
vision of isotopy. For my part, I attribute only to chance any
analogy between the two theories.

The experiments of Crookes relative to meta elements had the
incontestable merit of bringing to light a series of remarkable phe-
nomena then entirely novel. Would that he had then listened to
the wise counsel which Marignac gave him so diplomatically and
courteously in the Journal of the Natural and Physical Sciences of
Geneva. Why did he not mind the objections with which Lecoq
de Boisbaudran so justly opposed his theory, and which proved
so clearly that the phosphorescent spectra of yttrium did not belong
to yttrium but to impurities? The criticisms of Marignac and Lecoq
de Boisbaudran appear to have been met with general indifference.
Indeed, the theory of meta elements was very favorably received.
Crookes did not lack either approval or imitation, but to-day the
meta elements have no standing. Of the long discussion which I
had with Crookes on the matter, there remain to-day only the gen-
eral laws of cathode phosphorescence.

The passing interpretation of the facts matters little in com-
parison with the real observed phenomena themselves. The work
of Crookes on the phosphorescence of the yttria earths is a lasting
monument. This we can admire without reserve, closing our ears
to the interpretation. I regret only that my illustrious opponent
lost through his mistaken theories the advantage of an important
discovery, for unwittingly he had come upon europium.- I would
be happy could I save this from oblivion. Crookes had observed
in the mixtures which contained both samarium and yttrium, and
which consequently should contain all the intermediate earth ele-
ments, a phosphorescent band which appeared to him to behave
in a peculiar manner. He designated it for that reason an “ab-
normal band.” At the time he attributed it to both samarium
and yttrium, considering it as a resultant vibration of the atoms
of the two elements. Lecoq de Boisbaudran, who found several
analogies in certain phosphorescent spectra of solutions, which he
designated “ reversed spectra,” attributed the band to a new element.
He said that this band “ was perhaps not without relationship to
the abnormal band of Crookes.” That is definite enough. Thus
Crookes was left free to vindicate himself in the discovery of this
new element. He remained contented to consider his band as char-
acteristic of a meta element of samarium.

Among the earths which showed him the reversed band, Lecoq de
Boisbaudran observed a new spark spectrum; but he reserved the
question of deciding whether or not it was identical with the ele-
ment showing the “ reversed spectrum ” or that which produced the
direct spark.
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 215

Demarcay, who commenced the utilization of the ultra-violet
region for spectrochemistry, announced an element which he desig-
nated as 3. He later recognized the identity of this with that which
the spark had revealed to Lecoq de Boisbaudran, but he had some
reservations as to the origin of the anomalous band of Crookes.
He finally called the new element europium. He isolated it in a
very pure state but was unable to complete his work.

Having had the good fortune to isolate europium almost quanti-
tatively, I am able to clear away some of the uncertainties relative
to the diverse spectrum characteristics at first observed. Particularly
it was apparent that the anomalous band of Crookes and the reversed
band of Lecoq de Boisbaudran were different manifestations of this
element.

Certain that europium had been first revealed to Crookes, I sent
him my results before publication, together with a sample of pure
europium. He made a magnificent spark spectrum from the sam-
ple—he had much perfected his technique. He published that spec-
trum which had no immediate relationship with the phosphorescent
band and claimed nothing.

Almost all elements have striking histories but europium would
have beaten all records if celtium had not been subsequently dis-
covered.

I will not develop further the history of the rare earths. The
many elements of the group have been isolated one by one, and
their characteristics fixed with surety. You know as well as I,
my dear Brauner, the closing chapter of their history since you
wrote it with all the necessary detail under circumstances unfor-
getable to me.

During the years which closed this history, Sir W. Ramsay
opened and closed a new column in the classification of Mendeleeff,
discovering successively the different rare gases of the atmosphere.
Curie and his pupils, Sir E. Rutherford and his collaborators,
several years later demanded from the electrometer, what, until then,
had been asked from chemistry and spectroscopy. We know some
40 new radioactive elements. These we may call electrometric ele-
ments for we can observe the spectra only of radium and radon.

When it was established. that the radioactive elements are born
and die according to exponential laws, the composite experimental
decay of mixtures of radioactive elements, not in equilibrium, was
ingeniously analyzed into the components due to the separate ele-
ments. Each one of these new components presumably belonged to a
new element. The discovery of elements in this field became thus
the analysis of curves. It is difficult to avoid certain scepticisms;
and those who have for a long while made elaborate chemical
analyses in order to find evidence of new chemical characters may
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

well be excused from thinking that new generations may discover
now unknown elements. Since each new radioactive element is
characterized not only by the length of its average life, but also by
the coefficient of absorption of its radiation, and finally by the ve-
locity .of its « and B particles, the multiplicity of these character-
istics and the manner in which they behave under chemical in-
fluences leave no further doubt upon the objective reality of the
most elusive of the radioactive elements.

Their multiplicity alone is disconcerting. It is evidently impos-
sible to put each one of them into a separate compartment of the
too few compartments of Mendeleeff’s classification. Must we,
therefore, renounce the universal application of that classification
and exclude from it the majority of the radioactive elements? You,
Brauner, who have identified yourself with Mendeleeff’s cause and
have struggled so much for the success of the periodical classi-
fication, how anxiously you must have considered the matter. When
it became evident that certain elements distinct in their radio-
active properties, could not be distinguished in other ways, they
were naturally grouped in the same compartment—that is, all those
which appeared chemically the same. This phenomenon Fr. Soddy
called “isotopy.” This new notion, the value of which has become
considerable, at first seemed to arouse only a limited scientific pub-
lic. For most chemists, ionium, which could not be separated chem-
ically from thorium, ultimately, could only be thorium particu-
larly affected through radioactive qualities. It did not seem of good
augury that two elements could not be separated even slightly; and
yet further, their luminous spectra seemed to show no differences.
The daring of Soddy did not seem very great to have thus simply
settled the matter. If, as we once admitted, an element is suffi-
ciently defined through its spectrum and the value of its atomic
weight, one could not at all doubt that ionium and thorium were
one and the same element. Then in each compartment of Mendeleefft
we would put only one element where the radioactive people would
group several.

The ideas of chemical and radioactive elements seemed to be in
conflict. The chemists were inclined to concede as little as possible
to the physicists.

It is true that the matter of the iiliasinn: of the radioactive ele-
ments was not then very clear. It was difficult to put order into the
labyrinth of radioactive bodies. Fr. Soddy finally brought the
desired thread of Ariadne in the guise of the law of displacement
which gave a definite means of classifying a radioactive element in
the periodic scheme when we know the nature of its radiation and
its immediate ancestor. The same laws were also stated at about
the same time by Fajans.
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS—URBAIN 217

Such important laws could not pass unnoticed even by the eyes
of those who did not especially work in radioactivity. All which
relates to the periodic classification thus again assumes a general
character and interests both chemist and physicist.

In what relates to radioactivity, experiment and theory are so
intimately bound that it is difficult to tell where one ends and the
other begins, and one willingly attributes to theory the preponderat-
ing part. We seek for the crucial experiment which dispels all
doubts. Radioactivity is found in two series in the Mendeleeft
classification, and theory assigns to the changing element one of two
ultimate forms—helium or lead.

I spoke earlier of variable atomic weights. Th. Richards who
obtained for lead from galena the atomic weight of 207.18, found
for lead from carnotite the value 206.41. The precision of these
measures was over 1 part in 10,000. There was no chance for doubt.
We must applaud him.

There therefore exist different kinds of a body as common as lead.
This name then does not designate one but a family of substances.
Our atomic weights which served as bases for our highest theoretical
speculations can not be considered as true constants since they char-
acterise not pure bodies but mixtures. Once more we must make an
alteration in our definition of an element.

Will the classification of Mendeleeff totter now that its foundations
seem wrong? How shall we connect the properties of an element
with its atomic weight? It is necessary to give up the rigor of the
atomic weights and resign ourselves to their being only average
values. ‘The idea of Fr. Soddy comes as a great relief in the eyes of
chemists. Mendeleeff’s classification no longer should be considered
as dealing with elements but rather with families of elements.
Kach family becomes a pleiad of elements, in the limiting case, an
element. The idea grows on us. It is in the scientific air which we
breathe. We are anxious as to how in actual experience it will turn
out with all the elements, for until now the trials have all been
with radioactive elements. The abnormal leads, studied by Th.
Richards and his associates, by Maurice Curie, by Baxter and
Grover, by Honigschmidt and Horowitz, by Soddy and Hyman, and
several others, were all radioactive. In the special domain of radio-
active elements, the existence of isotopes has passed the boundary
which separates probable hypothesis from certain reality. But what
next?

Whatever value we may be disposed to attribute to this distinc-
tion we are only half satisfied. Some of the compartments of Men-
deleef are to contain families—e. g., in the case of the radioactive ele-
ments—and others single elements. Is it necessary to save the classi-
918 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

fication at the expense of this heterogeneity? We can not believe
that a moment. On the other hand we should be certain of the value
of the classification in itself. It is not the question of saving it from
a disaster by which it is not menaced, but to restate the principle
which certainly contains something of truth although not the whole
truth.

We have heard on many occasions of atomic numbers. First
through Rydberg but especially through Moseley. The latter gave
us a remarkable law which connects the radiation of the X-ray
spectra of each element with its atomic number. But this number
designates only the place occupied by each element in the classifica-
tion. It has in that sense only as much signification as the principle
of increasing atomic weights, one already put to rude test by the
respective positions of potassium and argon, iodine and tellurium,
nickel and cobalt, so that in this its interest might vanish. The
atomic numbers are in themselves only a series of whole numbers
without any precise signification. After all, the law of Moseley is
only an approximation, since it expresses as a linear relation what
experiment shows us more and more is curvilinear.

One could believe in 1914 (and I sincerely so believed after my stay
at Oxford where I worked with Moseley) that, in substituting for
the atomic weights the atomic numbers, Mendeleef’s theory had a
real improvement. Indeed the atomic numbers, susceptible of a
measure sufficiently precise according to the distribution of the
X-ray in the scale of wave lengths, succeed each other in the definite
order conforming precisely to the place occupied by the element or
family of elements in the periodical classification. Argon is in its
proper place preceding potassium; tellurium and cobalt on the one
hand and iodine and nickel on the other are in their proper ranks.
All difficulty vanishes. The theory comes out triumphant and
strengthened from the test.

However, the curvature of the lines of Moseley throws a shadow
upon the picture. We might think to find in this succession of whole
numbers a certain mystical value. The virtues in numbers which the
ancients held has been vigorously decried by philosophers, and their
ideas are echoed in modern science. But there is a physical sig-
nificance to the numbers of Moseley. Sir E. Rutherford takes one
from the experiments of Chadwick on the diffusion of the a-rays.
But the process is not wholly physical except so far as theory goes,
but from a more general point of view metaphysical. On the one
hand the diffusion of the a-rays through a body can lead to the
atomic numbers following the ideas of Rutherford; on the other
hand these numbers represent the number of positive charges on
the nucleus of each atom, or further, the number of electrons which
revolve about them. The atoms of Rutherford inspire us with
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS-——URBAIN P19

utmost confidence since he has found the way of making them ex-
emplify all the laws necessary for the sustaining of our science.
We can declare ourselves satisfied. The classification of Mendeleeff
has now solid foundations. It can await new facts and feel equal
to them. ‘To have seen it thus in the past come out the stronger
after each fray, we feel all the more confident in its fate. Glory
to Mendeleeff, and glory to you, his most ardent disciple, glory to
the founder of comparative chemistry.

It is good to have found a scientific base for this study of chemical
analogies. Strict science did not require it, but the demon of curi-
osity which is within us desired it. Between you and me, I believe
we are always like children and ask “ Why?”

“Why” do chemical analogies exist? Take the case of electrons.
When half of the universe is made of electrons they have to assume
many responsibilities, especially when the other half shrivels up, so
well protected from experiment that it refuses to play a part in the
phenomena which, except for radioactivity, are just beyond our ken.
“ Electron” answers all “whys” of physics and chemistry. They
have much to do.

Maybe we have only translated into a new language, very poetic
and full of imagery, the questions which our demon of curiosity poses
for us in a very prosaic language. We, indeed, express to-day the
same idea in saying either dysprosium and holmium are very closely
related, or the atoms of dysprosium and of holmium have both sev-
eral circlets of exterior electrons. If our demons give the second
statement in the form of a question we may be sure the first will
be the answer.

We have here, then, as a mathematician would say, reciprocal
propositions. Let us hope for their proof. Meanwhile we say that
two distinct atoms with identically the same circlets of exterior
electrons behave chemically and physically in the same manner.
Thus we interpret isotopes. It little matters whether they are
radioactive or not, the idea of isotopy has become general. It was
inevitable.

Among the nonradioactive elements, isotopy was, during its period
of incubation, only an elegant interpretation of a new spectroscopy
due to the inventive genius of J. J. Thomson. He dispersed in a
Crookes tube, the canal rays—that is, the positive rays—by means
of a double field, electric and magnetic. He thus obtained parabolas
due to atomic trajectories which were so great in number and of
such quality that in order to interpret them it was necessary to con-
sider our elements as mixtures impossible to separate by any other
means.

The experiments of Aston upon neon brought a real explanation
of the variation of density of neon in fractional osmosis.
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Subsequently, making perpendicular the two fields which J. J.
Thomson used for the deviation of the positive rays, Aston has shown
that at least a third of the more common elements must be looked
upon as mixtures of isotopes. The fractionation to which Hevesy
subjected mercury vapor showed clearly the multiple isotopy of that
element. I am sure you have been glad that isotopes are not
absolutely rebellious to the methods of analysis which are generally
considered chemical. It remains to be said that the spectra of
isotopes are not strictly the same, which doubtless you hoped would
be the case. We now have abundant proof.

If the isotopes can be separated chemically (time and the neces-
sary efforts are negligible conditions from a theoretical point of
view), and if they have different spectra (it will be necessary only
to have recourse to the sixth order in the echelon spectroscope
of Michelson or the interferometer of Fabry), we do not see why
they should not be called elements. It is clear that they are. Be-
tween them and the individuals of a group of elements like the rare
earths there is, to you and me, only a difference of degree in the
analogy.

In this it seems that we misconceive the rights of the electrons
which give the primary significance to the atomic number,
which is all important in the defining of a chemical element. Each
element of the group of rare earths has its atomic number, and there
is only one atomic number for all the elements of an isotopic group.
Have we a suflicient reason for defining an element by its atomic
number? Is it right to define the group rather than the nature?
No agreement has yet been reached. But if we are now beaten in
the search for the proper definition some day we will certainly
find it.

The International Commission on Chemical Elements, it is true,
has defined the element through its atomic number. That is a
victory for the periodic classification which should somewhat satisfy
you. The definition has been given only a provisory right, a con-
cession which should please you.

It is time I should close. I could not pretend to exhaust the
subject which I had the audacity to commence. I have tried to
recall certain memories. Perhaps I have been too personal. A
historian should avoid all sentiment, which a contemporary does
with difficulty. A reticence is required which I lack.

I could not speak as a professor and take a dogmatic attitude in
the presence of a master like you; indeed, such an attitude is never
mine. Wherefore I have spoken as a narrator and friend. If
aught lasts of this talk I wish that it might be the memory of the
great friendship with which you have honored me, my dear
Brauner.
THE MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM ®*

By Prof. CAMILLE MATIGNON,

Collége de France

[With 4 plates]

HISTORICAL

Mme. Curie announced before the Academy of Sciences at Paris
on the 12th of April, 1898, that two uraniferous minerals, pitch-
blende and chalcolite, showed more intense radioactive properties
than should be due to the uranium they contained. This remarkable
fact, she added, led to the belief that these minerals should contain
an element more radioactive than uranium.

M. and Mme. Curie—at times in collaboration with M. Bémont—
by the chemical analysis of pitchblende, showed successively the ex-
istence of two new radioactive elements—polonium, which follows
bismuth in the course of analytical processes, and radium, the ele-
ment next to barium.

Radioactivity, discovered by Henri Becquerel, thus proves to be a
direct method of chemical analysis of hitherto unexpected sensitive-
ness for indicating the existence of radioactive elements and serving
as a guide in their separation.

The treatment of a ton of the residues of pitchblende, under the
chemical supervision of M. Debierne, enabled M. and Mme. Curie to
isolate a small quantity of radioactive matter associated with barium.
This, by successive separations from the barium, became enriched
little by little, so that the spectroscope showed clearly the elementary
character of radium. In 1902 they obtained a strictly pure chloride
of radium.

During the progress of this work of separation, M. and Mme.
Curie demonstrated the curious and novel properties of this new
element—its radioactivity, induced radioactivity, physiological ac-
tions, ete.

Pitchblende, an uranium and radium ore, is found in a well-known
mine of Joachimstahl, in Bohemia, where it is regularly treated for
the extraction of the uranium. The small amount of uranium salts
used throughout the world comes from there. During this extrac-
ah EAD Packie ieee LABORA” OTE)

1 Translated by permission from Reyue Scientifique, Aug. 3, 1925, pp. 524-532.

221
999 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tion the radium becomes concentrated in the residues. These resi-
dues, accumulated since the beginning of the uranium industry, were
the first source of radium. The mine was owned by the Austrian
Government. In order to have a monopoly in the manufacture and
sale of radium, the export of the mineral was prohibited. A radium
institute was founded in Vienna for the development of the applica-
tions of radium.

Attention everywhere was directed to the known veins of urani-
ferous minerals: those of autunite in Portugal, of pitchblende in
England, in the Cornouailles, in Schneeberg, and Johanngeorgen-
stadt, in Saxony. At the same time, search was instituted for new
veins. Subsequently pitchblende was found in the United States
of America, in Mexico, and in the Indies, where it was exploited for
a short time.

The most important find was that of a very rich vein of carnotite
in the United States, extending in a mountainous and wild tract
through the States of Colorado and Utah. Influential American en-
terprises, despite the small content of radium in the mineral, did not
hesitate to establish, in those desert regions, roads and works with
companies of workmen for exploitation because of the immense
extent of the veins.

The project was so successful that in 1912, 1,200 tons of carnotite,
containing 8 to 9 grams of radium, left the United States for France
where a radium manufactory had been established in competition
with the Austrian works. From this time on, the exploitation of
the mines developed rapidly, and at the same time works for the
refinement of the radium were established in America, so that 10.5
grams of radium were produced in 1913 and 22.4 grams in the fol-
lowing year. The exportation of carnotite to Europe continued up
to the outbreak of the World War in 1914. In 1913 and 1914 the
amount of mineral exported each year corresponded to 7 or 8 grams.
of radium. At the beginning of 1914 the American Government
started measures to monopolize their radium. Ail the radium mines
found in the United States before January 15, 1914, remained the
property of their proprietors; but after that all discovered would be
the property of the Government. The prospectors had the right of
exploiting the mines they discovered but the mineral must be fur-
nished to the American Government at a price which would be fixed
from time to time by their Department of the Interior. The Ameri-
can Government established works for the extraction of the precious
element. At about the same time the National Radium Institute was
founded. It entered into collaboration with the companies estab-
lished before the decree of 1914, the Standard Chemical Co., the
American Radium Co., and the Schlesinger Radium Co., all located
at Denver, Colo., or near by.
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM—MATIGNON 293

With a carnotite of meager yield (400 tons yielding 1 gram of
radium) but of easy manipulation, the Americans thus became the
principal suppliers of radium to the world and monopolized the
industry to their profit. This continued until the Belgian Mining
Society, Union Miniere du Haut Congo, brought to light, in its
copper concessions in the Belgian Congo, veins of pitchblende of
great richness.

Their first discovery of pitchblende was made in 19138 in the cop-
per mine of Luiswishi. This was followed in 1915 by a second.dis-
covery of the mineral in another mine of the same company at
Chinkolobwe (Kasolo). Systematic researches undertaken from the
beginning of 1921 assisted in locating the uraniferous veins. The
first analyses made in the African laboratories of the Union were
repeated by M. Schoep, professor in the university at Gand, who at
the end of 1921 confirmed the work of the first assays. Because of
the richness of the ores, it was decided to transport them to Belgium
for treatment. The study of the process for extraction was en-
trusted to the Société Générale Métallurgique of Hobokens. Under
the direction of M. Leeman, with the collaboration of M. Clérin
and inspired by the investigations of Curie and Debierne, it per-
fected the process of reduction of the ore. A factory for the
treatment of the Congo mineral was then established at Oolen in the
Antwerp Campine.

The work was pushed with such activity that the first cargo of
mineral arrived at Antwerp on the 5th of December, 1921. The first
part of the plant was in operation the following 8th of July. Dur-
ing that interval of six months the process of extraction had been
developed and installed in the new laboratory.

The prospecting continued in 1924 confirmed the existence at
Chinkolobwe of considerable quantities of rich mineral yielding up
to 60 per cent of uranium oxide. This would be capable of supply-
ing the works at Oolen for a long period. The latter underwent
rapid development and produced during 1923 regularly nearly 4
grams of radium per month, assuring thus the supplying of two-
thirds of the world’s consumption.

When you consider that the American mineral contained scarcely
2 per cent of uranium oxide, and often ore was treated with only
three-fourths of 1 per cent, it is not difficult to see that the American
mines and works were forced to close. The monopoly, uselessly at-
tempted by the Austrians first, then to a great degree accomplished
in the United States of America, has practically wholly passed into
the hands of the Belgians. The works all over the world have
had to either close or slow up their production, the cost preventing
any competition with the Belgian product. Belgian radium can
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

amply supply the world. Even these laboratories are forced to
restrict their production that their reserve of radium may not use-
lessly augment.

Radium compounds constitute the most expensive bodies of cur-
rent commerce. The price of radium oscillates about 1,000,000
francs per gram, while platinum reaches 80 francs. M. Chaumet,
the well-known jeweler, has told me that a ruby may reach 750,000
francs per gram while a perfect pearl weighing 50 grains would sell
for 2,500,000—say 1,000,000 francs per gram.

RADIFEROUS MINERALS

Radium is scattered throughout the rocks of the earth’s crust
but generally in infinitesimal quantities. Almost all the samples
examined by the most sensitive methods show an extremely weak
radioactivity; only the pure limestones and the quartz sands are
nearly inactive. The waters of springs, mineral waters which have
been in contact with radiferous earth, are almost always more or
less radioactive. According to direct measures of Strutt, the ter-
restrial crust contains on the average about 4><10-° grams per meter.
The richest rocks are the igneous granites. The sedimentary rocks
are much less rich. All radioactive materials are composed of
granitic rocks or have been derived from them.

The oldest or primary uraniferous minerals have remained un-
altered in the original rocks—like fergussonite, thorianite. By the
action of water upon these primary rocks, new minerals have been
formed, sometimes within the original beds, sometimes beside them.
A great concentration .of uranium may thus have resulted. Pitch-
blende is typical of the secondary rocks. Finally, atmospheric
agents, working upon the two preceding classes of minerals, have
formed a third more recent class of which chalcolite, autunite, and
carnotite are typical.

Pitchblende is essentially an oxide of uranium, U,O,, mixed with
numerous impurities. The oxide occurs sometimes only as a trace,
sometimes in more massive formation. Many elements occur among
the impurities. The following table gives the principle components
of a rich sample from Joachimstahl:

WA Ss eA gear at eee 90 1 CAO. 2.1 s reheat ee eee
BGA TONLE, Oth) TROL Se ae SP tingh)) Les AL +S See
SO Se ae ok Lede eee Dera (ape ate E a sie ie Fi ie FO ieee ER a2 Ae Seb es Lie 8)

The veins of the Belgian Congo have given birth, through the
intermediation of atmospheric agents, to a whole new series of com-
pounds recently discovered and studied by Professor Schoep of
Gand.

ol

nw
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM—MATIGNON 225

Carnotite is a vanadiate of uranium and potassium, V,O,.2U0,.-
K,0.3H,O, of a yellow tint. It is rarely found in a pure state.
In the United States carnotite impregnates the. old porous sands,
giving them a pale yellow tint. The average mineral contains 1.5
to 2.8 per cent of uranium oxide with 3.5 per cent of the anhydrous
V.O.. These sands extend through immense tracts in the States
of Colorado and Utah in beds varying in thickness from 1% to 2
meters or more.

Autunite, P,O,.2U0,.CaO.8H,O, or uranite, has been much ex-
ploited in Portugal, in the Province of Beire Baixa. This mineral
is prone to mechanical enrichment.

THE EXTRACTION OF RADIUM

To Mme. Curie and M. Debierne we owe the method for the ex-
traction of radium from uraniferous minerals. All the processes
since developed utilize in their main lines the methods instituted
by these two scientists.

The Austrian Government, whose mine in Joachimstahl has been
long worked, extracts the uranium from the pitchblende by a
fusion of the pulverized mineral with sodium sulphate. Under
such conditions, the sulphate changes the uranium oxide into sodium
uranate, easily soluble in dilute sulphuric acid. During the fusion,
the radium, if not already in this state, is changed into an insoluble
sulphate which remains in the residue. It was these residues,
accumulated about the Austrian works, which served, we have
already seen, as the first material for the isolation of radium.

We will now state the method used in America in the treatment of
carnotite. This method was applied on a very large scale, about
150 grams of radium resulting from the treatment of more than
750,000 tons of the active sand. Then we will indicate the modifi-
cations which were necessary for the treatment of pitchblende.

TREATMENT OF THE AMERICAN MINERAL CARNOTITE

The ore arrives at the works in sacks marked with figures which
indicate the richness in uranium determined approximately by means
of an a-ray electroscope.

The principle of the method of reduction is very simple. The
sands impregnated with carnotite are treated with a warm solution
of hydrochloric acid which dissolves the carnotite with its elements,
vanadium, uranium, and radium. The addition of sulphuric acid
precipitates the insoluble barytes, always present, carrying along
with them all the radium as*radium sulphate. Since the presence
of barium is necessary in the subsequent stages of the process, some
is added if the mineral itself contains an insufficient quantity.
996 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The insoluble sulphates are first purified and enriched by chang-
ing them in an autoclave under pressure into alkaline carbonates;
next they are changed into chlorides by solution of these carbonates
in hydrochloric acid. These operations are repeated a second time
after which the carbonates are rich enough to be passed into the
crystallization laboratory. At the time of the solution of the
carbonates in hydrochloric acid, a radiferous silica is always precip-
itated which is given a special treatment for its radium. The car-
bonates are finally transformed into chlorides. These chlorides, es-
sentially a mixture of the chlorides of barium and radium, are sub-
mitted to fractional crystallization.

When a certain richness in radium is reached, it is best to trans-
form the chlorides into bromides; the product undergoes an in-
crease in richness. Moreover, commercially radium is used as the
bromide.

The initial hydrochloric liquid containing the vanadium is treated
to recover the vanadium. The solution is neutralized by sodium car-
bonate, then carried to the boiling point, in order to carry the
vanadium into a precipitate of vanadic acid containing iron, uranium,
etc. All the vanadium is never precipitated. The addition of soda
to the liquid just separated from the vanadium precipitates the
uranium as the insoluble uranate of sodium, carrying down with
the precipitate the greater part of the remaining vanadium. In
the United States they go no farther than this first precipitation
which gives the oxide of vanadium, since the demand for vanadium
is very small.

We will now consider some of the details in the separation of
barium and radium. It depends upon the difference in solubility
of the two chlorides or the two bromides, those of radium being the
less soluble. The operations commence with the chlorides and are
finished with the bromides when the concentration of the radium
has reached a minimum of 20 milligrams of radium per kilogram
of the salt.

The ratio between the concentration in the crystals separated to
that of the initial crystals is called the factor of crystallization. The
concentration of radium is generally defined by the number of milli-
grams of radium contained in a gram or a kilogram of the anhydrous
crystal.

In the case of the chlorides, the factor of crystallization is 1.6, when
the crystals separated represent 50 per cent of the total weight
treated. With the bromides the factor is raised to 2.2 with a separa-—
tion of crystals amounting to 42 per cent of the total.

The following sketch (Barker) shows very clearly the march of
crystallization occuring with the chlorides, dividing at each crystal-
lization a half of the salt into two equal parts. At the start a kilo-
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM—MATIGNON 27

gram of the chloride is supposed to be taken containing 100 milli-
grams of radium.

Each circle represents the composition of a portion before crystal-
lization; the figures above give the weight of the crystals, the
figures below the concentration in radium referred to 1 kilogram
of the salt. Each figure at the side gives the quantity of radium
in the portion.

After the first fractionation, the kilogram of salt is divided into
two parts, A and B, each weighing 500 grams and having concentra-

SERIES
1

Fic, 1.—The fractional crystallization of radium chloride

tions of 160 and 40, respectively. The portions A and B give
further the fractions A, A; and B, B, characterized by the follow-
ing figures:

Concen-
Portion | Mass tration in

| radium

| Grams
ING GS Dah yel ek a lates tied Wo ay ve ale iil Wy Se eet eae fee eee | 250 256
Ie eb yiteg BS TA 5 ats, 2S op, AOD, Be ag | WE A eS Se eh os Eee eee ae ee | 250 64
TE ee eS ar Rea Orie ea Mt eae aE ON SES er ee OR Re Ree, eA 250 64
1S) eee pe, A eel a ENE ee eae emma eeE CE ETT ig its ees eS (Gee eee PERS 250 16

Note that the portions A, and B, have the same concentration in
radium. The portions are combined so that there remains three
parts: A, A,+B, B..

Similarly the mother liquors from the treatment A, are added to
the crystals from the treatment of A,+B, while the mother liquors
of the last fraction go to the crystals obtained from the fraction B,.
BIS ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Thus, though at first the number of fractions keeps on augmenting,
there is soon reached a stage of constant fractionation, for it is best
to eliminate from time to time the poorest solutions and the richest
solutions as indicated in the diagram; for instance, in the fifth
series of fractionations there is removed from the series of operations
62.5 grams of crystals in a concentration of 2.7 milligrams. These
residues will later reenter into the procedure.

At the fourth fractionation crystals are obtained having practi-
cally the concentration of the original salt. We may at this stage
profit by introducing a certain quantity of the original salt into the
ensemble as indicated in the figure. This artifice has the added
advantage of increasing the mass of certain fractionations. At the
seventh fractionation this process may be repeated.

We can compute the number of series of fractionations necessary
to obtain a given concentration. Let us suppose that we start out
with a chloride solution containing in the dry state 0.76 milligrams
of radium per kilogram and that we wish to attain a concentration
of 20 milligrams of the radium. After a fractionation the concen-
tration of the richer portion is 0.76><1.6; the second series will give
for the richer portion 0.76 (1.6)?; after » series we will have
0.76 (1.6)". Accordingly,

0.76 (1.6) "=20

whence we obtain n equals 7.

It is best now to continue the fractionation after transformation
of the chlorides into bromides. If we now wish to attain a concen-
tration of 1 per cent in radium, it will be necessary to make n series
of fractions, n being given by the relationship:

(2.2)"= (10,000/20)
whence 7 equals 8.

Now let us consider the results of a fractionation starting with

134.25 kilograms of anhydrous chlorides containing 102.8 milligrams

of radium and carried to a concentration of 1.1 per cent of radium.
We have:

Milligrams
Radin an: thesnitial ehigrig@ess 2 a = ee eee _ 102. 80
Radium eliminated in the chloride fractionation______________________- 2. 29
Radium eliminated in the bromide fractionation_-._______________-____ 47
Radium carried down with the precipitation of lead__--______________ ner
Radium: in the final salt at Ld per cent ---. = 96. 04

In order to obtain a like result, it would be necessary in the frac-
tionation of bromide, for example, to take out the rich portion at the
eighth crystallization and then to continue the progressive enrich-
ment, with the elimination of the rich fractions so as to condense
the greater part of the radium into the enriched quota. This en-
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM-——MATIGNON 229

tails as a consequence the retiring during the operations of only a
small quantity of the poorer liquids, since only 2.76 milligrams of
radium are discarded during the process. From time to time we
eliminate by a current of hydrogen sulphide the lead which always
exists in small quantities in the solution. As indicated in the above
table the resulting sulphide of lead carries down with it some of
the radioactive matter.

The table shows the flexibility of the fractionation and how it
can be varied to suit the end desired.

The above data comes from Prof. Howard H. Barker, of the
University of Missouri, who made very important researches on
carnotite. He has pushed the concentration even further. He pro-
poses to conduct the operations so as to have a radium bromide
nearly 90 per cent pure. The following table gives some of the

data relative to the proposed fractionation:
Milligrams

Radium theinitialesalt daly per cent, pures- = 2 96. 04
Radium obtained as the bromide 88 per cent pure__--_----____-___-_- 92. 66
Radium obtained: as a -salt'at 1/46 percent: pure=—=——-—- 2 3. Ol
Radium optainedeasva salt at OOS; per cent, pure= . 52

96.5 per cent of the radium is accordingly obtained in the form of
bromide 88 per cent pure.

All the tubes of radium bromide thus prepared are stored in a
room very distant from the physical laboratory. They are ex-
amined several times to determine their richness in radium. Gen-
erally three determinations of the radium imprisoned in each tube
are made by means of the y-rays: First, soon after the closing of
the tube when there is sensibly no emanation; second, four days
later corresponding to the time for the growth of one-half the ema-
nation for equilibrium; and finally, about a month later when radio-
active equilibrium is practically attained.

The works and the laboratory establish a definite schedule of oper-
ations. They keep an accurate account of the amount of radium in
the original material, the mineral in the works, the radioactive car-
bonates for the laboratory and the quantity of radium obtained at
the end of the operations, the carbonates for the works and the tubes
for the laboratory. From this final result may be judged the efh-
ciency of the various steps.

TREATMENT OF PITCHBLENDE

The industrial treatment of pitchblende residues as carried out by
the Austrian Government in the works at Joachimstahl is practically
the same as the method first elaborated by Mme. Curie and M.
Debierne. The chemists at the works at Oolen, while deriving ideas
from the previous process, have conceived for the treatment of the

76041—26——_16
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Congo mineral a method of extraction based upon the same princi-
ples as that of Mme. Curie but involving some original ideas in its
application.

The dominant impurities in the first Belgian material were copper,
iron, lead, phosphoric acid, alumina, and silica. For their elimina-
tion at the beginning, the mineral is pulverized and submitted (for-
lowing M. Leemans) to the four following operations:

1. Attack with acids for the elimination and separation of
uranium, iron, copper, and phosphoric acid.

2. Treatment with a sodium chloride solution for the elimination
of lead with final precipitation of the metal and the regeneration of
the brine.

3. Treatment with hydrochloric acid to eventually eliminate the
calcium.

4. Treatment with sodium carbonate to eliminate the sulphuric
acid.

At the conclusion of these operations the radium remains in an
insoluble form mixed with the silica. This insolubility of radium
requires either that it exists at the start as a sulphate in the mineral,
which is not very likely, or that it is first changed into the sulphate,
for instance, by heating it with sodium sulphate as is done at
Joachimstahl. It is then possible to eliminate the impurities by
treatment with acids. Hydrochloric acid, 13° Baumé and warm, is
particularly recommended for this step. The chloride of lead
formed, being only slightly soluble in the hydrochloric acid solution,
can doubtless be eliminated by a concentrated solution of sodium
chloride solution with which it forms a double salt. The calcium
sulphate can be removed with warm hydrochloric acid in which
gypsum is quite soluble. Finally treatment with sodium carbonate
transforms the sulphates of barium and radium which are insoluble
with the silica, into carbonates soluble in hydrochloric acid and they
can thus be removed from the silica.

All this earlier part of the process, which entails some 40 opera-
tions—filtration, washing, etc.—are carried out in the first building.
There results a mixture of impure chlorides of radium and barium
in which the radium is mixed with one hundred and twenty-five
thousand times its weight of inactive matter. The impurities have
been thus reduced one two-hundredth of their original amount.
From this point the process is continued as with the carnotites.

In a second phase of the work the chlorides are purified by trans-
forming them several times into sulphates and carbonates, and
when the purification has become sufficient the last phase of the
process commences: the enrichment of the radium by fractional
crystallization at first in the form of chlorides and then as bromides.
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM—MATIGNON 231

The transformation into the chlorides is best made through the help
of the carbonates which are finally dissolved in a hydrobromic acid
solution.

In the first series of fractionations all the enriched portions are
collected as soon as they have reached a quota of 0.05 per cent of
radium. The initial solution of chlorides contained only 0.0001 per
cent; accordingly, this enrichment is in the ratio to the first state as
125 to 1. This first fractionation takes place in enameled vats, 60 in
number, the size of which decreases from the first for the entrance of
the material to the last for the enriched crystals.

The work is now continued in the laboratory. Each batch for
further purification contains some 2 to 3 grams of radium in a
mixture of some 5 to 6 kilos of the mixed chlorides.

During the process of concentration the lead is eliminated from
time to time by the passage of a current of hydrogen sulphide. All
the operations require the use of very pure distilled water, for the
least trace of sulphuric acid, not even detectable with barium chloride,
will precipitate the radium as a sulphate less soluble than that of
barium. Generally a little barium chloride is added to the water to
be distilled to remove the least trace of sulphuric acid.

At the works at Oolen the last fractionation is reached when the
radium bromide has become 95 to 96 per cent pure; that is the market-
able form of radium.

The crystals thus obtained hold two molecules of water and must be
dried to preclude an explosive decomposition of the water. An abso-
lute dessication is obtained by heating the salt up to fusion. It then
appears as a whitish mass very luminous in the dark. It is preserved
in glass tubes, sealed by melting the glass.

We have noted the important part played during the course of
treatment by measures of radioactivity. To avoid the disturbing
action of any secondary or parasitic radioactivity the measuring
laboratory is situated about a. kilometer (0.6 mile) distant from the
works.

When the y-rays alone are desired, the sulphate of radium is pret-
erably used; its greater insolubility giving better guaranty agains*
loss. But if the emanation is desired, a soluble form is necessary, so
that it may be easily removed from the emanation.

The following table gives the amount of radium in the principal
forms found on the market:

Per cent
1 RG OH LS Sa aS a ee et ee ee ee ee ee 76.1
LECT Oy ee el yh aed a os hana r ene aie Sep eae eee. SET aE ye Oe ee en ee 58. 6
RB rs 2 HO nse Sieh. Die Steen A eo Ss See ee? =e Sirta SCE see 53. 6
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
RADIUM STATISTICS

The mines of Joachimstahl up to 1922 had produced 23 grams of
radium. We may estimate that the European total up to the begin-
ning of the Belgian entrance in the field was about 60 grams.

All the previous manufacture of radium was greatly surpassed by
the American production which amounted almost to a monopoly.
According to Mr. K. L. Kithill, one of the directors of the American
works at Denver, there had been taken from carnotite 160 to 165
grams of radium.?

Since the Société Minitre of Haut Katanga began to put its radium
on the market, most of the other works have ceased operations. The
great works built by the Americans are idle awaiting the exhaustion
of the Belgian minerals before starting up again. We have no in-
formation upon the possibility of such a weakening in their pro-
duction, since the Société Minicre of Haut Katanga jealously keeps
secret all the results of its prospecting.

However that may be, the works at Oolen, from which the first
tube of radium appeared on the market in August, 1922, produced
that year 15 grams of radium. During the following year they pro-
duced at the rate of 4 grams per month, and therefore up to the end
of 1924 had produced 110 grams of radium. However, such a pro-
duction is ahead of the market demand and they had to slow up or
accumulate reserves; in fact, according to the financial journals its
sales were limited during 1924 to 22 grams.

From all this, it seems as though we would be near the truth in
stating that the amount of radium actually now available, including
the Belgian stocks, should be about 300 to 310 grams, having a value
of more than 300,000,000 francs.

In 1923 the hospitals and medical institutions of the United States
of America owned a total of more than 120 grams of radium;
another much smaller quantity was in the hands of the scientists in
the universities and scientific institutions. America therefore has
more than one-half of the radium available at present.

If we could gather the 300 grams of radium which has been iso-
lated, for the purpose of separating its emanation, we could obtain
20 cubic millimeters, susceptible of giving 31 kilogram calories per
hour.

How has the price of radium varied? The following table gives
the price in dollars per milligram of the elementary radium since
1904:

2 These 165 grams have been determined from the amount of radium, sometimes in the
anhydrous and sometimes in the hydrated salt, so that the figures should be sensibly
reduced as well as all statistics derived from them.
MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM—MATIGNON 233

QO Ase. Sey Ok aed SLOVO S25): |¢ 1912-1914 St oe ee $180
LOO pet = ee a 2 LOPS; HO), | eG dkyaes Se gee eee Sey. hes 160
TEES (fp a ae GO), | 1916-10225 6 te 120, 110, 105
ICO TS Oe eae ee ROwcO! Leow ehO Loa 2 ee ee 70
US LA 0S LP Resp epee 150

The price of radium therefore rapidly increased from $10 to $160,
passing through a maximum of $180. The radium from the Ameri-
can carnotites lowered the price from $160 to $120-$110; it then kept
at about $110 until the appearance of the Belgian product upon the
market lowered it to $70. Allowing 20 francs to the dollar, radium
sells at 1,400 francs per milligram.

The sale of radium requires a complicated organization, since it is
necessary to get at a very special clientele—the physicians and hos-
pitals. The producer of radium must educate his clients, support
the expense of schools and medical meetings, and seek out new per-
manent openings. The Americans have created during their ten
years of efforts a powerful organization of instruction and propa-
eanda. Further, the Union Miniére has concluded with two princi-
pal groups of American producers, the Standard Chemical Co. and
the Radium Co. of Colorado, a contract which allows it to use to its
own profit the American organizations for propaganda for the use
of radium. These producers have thus been transformed into com-
mercial agents also.

The Union Miniére in lowering the price of radium from $100 to
$70 has doubtless thus contributed to the useful applications of
radium. It is but just to add in closing that they graciously put 2
grams of radium at the disposal of the Curie Foundation.

APPLICATIONS OF RADIUM

The only practical application is in its use in therapeutics. I do
not wish to penetrate into a domain which is foreign to my experi-
ence and will only indicate that the treatment with radium has
often given very fortunate results in the treatment of lupus, super-
ficial ulcers, arteriosclerosis, gout, rheumatism, etc. Especially is it
used in the fight against cancer.

The therapeutic technique of radium is very complicated. Indeed,
radium emits radiations which are practically very penetrating X-
rays; it projects electrons having very great velocities and endowed
with certain penetrating powers and four groups of «-particles char-
acterized each with a particular velocity. These latter particles,
which have practically no penetrating power, can act only on the
surface of tissues in contact with the radium. We can therefore in-
ject a very dilute solution of an active body into an organ or submit
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

that organ at each of its parts to the action of all the radium radia-
tions. Each of these radiations evidently can and does have a
specific action which is further dependent upon the duration of the
action and its intensity. One immediately sees how difficult it is to
pick out a particular action so that it may exercise its particular
power. We may thus understand the complexity of the problems
which are met with in the employment of radium in therapeutics.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Matignon

|. VATS FOR DISINTEGRATING THE MINERAL, AND FILTER-
ING PRESSES

2. VATS AND FILTERS
108)

1. VATS AND PUMPS

2. ROOM FOR FRACTIONAL CRYSTALLIZATION

PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Matignon PLATE 3

1. CAPSULE OF RADIUM BROMIDE

Photograph made in a dark room by the radiation emitted by radium.
Diameter ef capsule, 350 mm.

2. CAPSULE OF RADIUM BROMIDE

Photograph made in a dark room by the radiation emitted by radium.
Diameter of capsule, 350 mm.
PLATE 4

MADAME P. CURIE, PROFESSOR AT THE SORBONNE, IN
HER LABORATORY
THE CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS:

By Prof. Crecir H. Descu, F.R.S.

It is remarkable how little we know with any certainty about
the chemical properties of solids, although the idea of a solid is
so fundamental. At the present time we always begin the study of
chemistry with the gases on account of the simplicity of their mathe-
matical treatment, but it must be remembered that this simplicity
is the result of long study and of many discoveries. ‘To the un-
scientific mind the solid is simpler, because more tangible. When
men have tried to understand gases, they have expressed themselves
in terms of solids. The atom, however attenuated it may have
become in recent years, was in the first imstance essentially a solid
sphere, and the elasticity of gases has been explained in terms of
the collision of elastic solid particles in motion.

Our conception of liquids has been based in the same way on the
idea of moving particles, themselves thought of in terms of the
solid state. Yet, of solids themselves, whilst our knowledge of their
physical and mechanical properties is very extensive, our chemi-
cal information is of the most meager kind. It was an old doctrine
that chemical reactions could only proceed in the gaseous or liquid
states, so that chemical action on a solid was always preceded by
the tearing off of atoms from the surface under the influence of
electrical forces. That view can no longer be maintained. Chemi-
cal reactions can occur within or at the surface of a solid, but the
experimental difficulties are sometimes such as to make the exact
investigation of the subject a difficult matter.

In the modern conception of a solid, the atoms are characterized
by a regular arrangement in space, that arrangement being repeated
so as to build up a crystalline lattice. Crystals and aggregates
of crystals are thus the only true solids, gases being regarded as
under-cooled liquids of high viscosity. The X-ray method devel-
oped by Laue and by W. H. and W. L. Bragg has made it possible
to determine, not only the class of a crystal, but also the exact lat-

1 from the presidential address delivered at Southampton on Aug. 31 before Section B

(Chemistry) of the British Association; reprinted by permission from Nature, No. 2921,
vol, 116, Oct. 24, 1925.
235
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tice possible to crystals belonging to that class. The connection
between the chemical properties and the crystalline structure still
remains indeterminate, although it must be very intimate.

There are many reasons why the chemical study of solids should
receive greater attention. In metallurgy, although metals and
alloys may, and most frequently do, pass through a molten stage in
the course of their manufacture, they may undergo many important
changes of structure and constitution at temperatures far below
that at which the last liquid portions have completely solidified,
and these changes may be so far-reaching as to convert an alloy
into one seemingly of an entirely different class, although the gross
chemical composition has not altered. The petrologist, especially
when dealing with igneous and metamorphic rocks, has to consider
reactions which proceed in the midst of solids of high rigidity.
Several industries, such as that of cement, are based on reactions
of the same kind as those with which the petrologist has to deal.
Sintering is not always due to the presence of small quantities of
molten material between the solid particles, and it is now certain
that union of solid masses under pressure may occur without actual
melting. This was shown by Spring 40 years ago, but for long,
although frequently quoted, his results received little consideration.

The most striking application of the principle is seen in the metal-
lurgy of tungsten. This metal was formerly described as very hard
and brittle, and it is not possible, by casting it and then annealing,
to bring it to a ductile form. The method now adopted is to prepare
it in the form of a pure powder, and then to bring it to a compact
state by compressing, heating, and hammering while very hot, and
finally drawing. As this process is continued, and as an originally
thick rod becomes extended into a slender wire, the brittleness pro-
gressively disappears, and at last the tungsten is obtained in those
beautiful filaments, drawn to extreme fineness, with which we are
familiar in our electric light bulbs and wireless valves. A somewhat
similar example is that of the adhesion of an electrolytically de-
posited metal to its support, which is sometimes so perfect as to
approach the breaking strength of one of the metals, although
interpenetration of crystals is not to be seen under the microscope.

There is another aspect of the chemistry of solids which will make
an appeal to some who are not chemists, but amateur students of
nature. The great beauty of natural crystals has attracted the atten-
tion of poets and artists as well as men of science. Much of this
beauty depends on the varying habit of one and the same crystal
species. Even with such a common mineral as quartz, it is possible
on entering a mineral collection to point to some of the crystals
exposed, and to name their locality, when once the form has become
familiar. The same is true of other minerals. Why should there
CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS-—DESCH 237

be this variation, when the chemical composition of the distinct
varieties may be identical, so far as analysis is able to give infor-
mation ?

Again, the crystalline system will not account for the differences
in the building up of individuals to form aggregates. Rock salt
and cuprite crystallize in cubes, and the space lattice has a very
similar form in the two minerals; but when the salt forms multiple
growths, the cubes arrange themselves in characteristic stepped
pyramids, whilst the red oxide of copper may form the most beauti-
ful hair-like threads, a tissue of scarlet silk, as Ruskin calls it.
Neither mineral ever assumes a form which is characteristic of the
other, the simple cube being once departed from. Why should this
be? It is known that the presence of traces of foreign matter may
cause differences of habit, the most famous example being that of
the crystallization of common salt in octahedra instead of cubes when
a small quantity of urea is added to the solution, but the explanation
of these facts is still imperfect.

The work of Johnsen and of Gross has shown that the appearance
of a face on a crystal placed in a supersaturated solution is really
determined by the velocity of growth in a direction normal to that
face, those faces being produced which have a minimum velocity
of growth. Some light is thrown on the subject by a study of the
growth of a crystal when solvent is completely excluded, the sub-
stance used being sublimed in a vacuum. This has been undertaken
by Volmer, who finds that cadmium, zinc, and mercury crystals
erow in this way in a high vacuum. When small nuclei are present,
those grow which have the face with the smallest velocity of growth
perpendicular to the stream of impinging molecules. The differences
between different faces are large, so that under these conditions
either flat tables or long prisms are usually formed, according to
the direction of the original nucleus. The crystal grows by the addi-
tion of thin lamine, probably only one molecule thick, which spread
over the surface. This is likely to be the process when the crystal
is growing in a solution or in a molten mass, as well as in the vapor;
and, in fact, when cadmium or tin is being deposited electrolytically
at a cathode, or when lead iodide is being formed from a solution of
a lead salt and an iodide, the growth of the crystal may be watched
under the microscope, when a thin film begins to form at some point
on a face, and extends over the face, maintaining a uniform thickness
throughout. It is realized that in the presence of a foreign sub-
stance, either molecules or ions may attach themselves to such a sur-
face by their residual affinity, and this will necessarily affect the
addition of further layers of the original substance. In other words,
the velocity of crystallization in a direction normal to that face will
be changed. As the residual affinity of different faces of a crystal
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

must, from the ordinary conception of an atomic space lattice,
be different, the habit of the crystal, that is, the relative development
of different faces, will be altered by the presence of a foreign sub-
stance. It is on these lines that an explanation of differences of
habit must be sought.

When a face of a crystal is brought into contact with an etching
reagent, such as water for rock salt, hydrofluoric acid for quartz,
or cupric ammonium chloride for iron, the surface is not dissolved
away evenly, leaving it smooth, but characteristic etching pits are
produced, the sides of the pits being evidently crystal faces. This
shows that chemical action proceeds more readily along certain planes
of a crystal than along others, a fact which we should expect from
the general properties of the space lattice. It is not explained,
however, why these etching pits should appear at first separate
from one another, the intervening portions of the surface being un-
attacked. Minute particles of some impurity, causing local elec-
trolytic differences, suggest themselves as a possible cause, but it is
unlikely that they would be so evenly seattered in, for example,
a quartz crystal as to produce the regular distribution which is
often observed. Minute inequalities of level, which may be of a
periodic character, are more probable, and this suggestion is strength-
ened by the observation that a polished face of rock salt dissolves
evenly in water, whilst a natural cleavage face shows etching pits.

It is now possible, when pursuing the study of solids, to eliminate
one of the disturbing factors, the inter-crystalline boundary, by
making experiments with specimens composed of a single crystal.
There are several ways of preparing single metallic crystals of
such a size as to allow of the determination of their physical and
mechanical properties. Even so brittle a metal as zinc has an extra-
ordinary ductility in single crystals. The mechanism of deforma-
tion has been examined in detail by means of X-rays. There is now
a large body of evidence as to the directions of slip in a crystal
during deformation, and this knowledge is essential to any under-
standing of the nature of cohesion, with which the chemical proper-
ties are no doubt closely connected.

We may now turn to the subject of chemical reactions which take
place in the interior of a solid, either originating at the surface
or from nuclei which make a spontaneous appearance in the course
of cooling below the melting point. A chemical change which has
begun at some point in or at the surface of a homogeneous crystal-
line mass cannot advance unless the atoms are able in some way to
change their places. Gross movements, represented in gases and
liquids by convection currents, are out of the question, but the slower
process of diffusion, by which atoms or molecules can make their
CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS—DESCH 239

way through the solid, must be possible. Experiment shows that
diffusion in solids, whilst naturally a slow process in comparison
with diffusion in liquids, proceeds at quite measurable rates.

The classical example of such measurements, and for many years
the only one, is the study of the diffusion of gold in solid lead,
undertaken by Roberts-Austen in 1896. A much simpler example
is that of silver and gold, two metals which resemble one another
closely in chemical character and in atomic volume, so that diffusion
causes less change of properties than in any pair of less closely
similar metals. The experimental results prove, as might have been
anticipated, that diffusion is a much slower process when there is
so little difference in chemical character. When the two kinds of
atoms are closely alike, the tendency to diffuse must be small, but
it is certainly not zero. By making use of an ingenious device,
Hevesy has been able to determine the coefficient of self-diffusion
of liquid and solid lead. Two isotopes should not differ appreciably
in their rates of diffusion, so that when the radioactive isotope
thorium B is allowed to diffuse in ordinary lead, the experiment is
equivalent to selecting a certain number of lead atoms and attaching
iabels to them by which they may be identified in the course of
their journey. In this way he found that the diffusion in lquid
lead near to the melting point was of the order of that of salt in
water, but that in the solid state it was very small. Further experi-
ments, using a thin foil, proved that at 2° below the melting point
the rate was 1/10,000 of that in molten lead.

When a liquid mixture of two substances which are miscible in the
solid as well as in the molten condition, such as an alloy of copper
and nickel or a fused mass of albite and anorthite, begins to solidify,
the composition of the crystals has to adjust itself continuously in
order to maintain equilibrium with the changing liquid phase, as
was shown by Roozeboom in his classical work on solid solutions.
Such an adjustment is only possible by means of diffusion, and
when cooling is sufficiently slow, the adjustment does in fact keep
pace with the change in the liquid, but with more rapid cooling the
interior of each crystal differs in composition from its outer layers,
there being a concentration gradient from the center to the boundary.
This condition produces the “cored” crystals which are familiar
to every metallurgist, and the “ zoned ” crystals of the mineralogist.
In most alloys this want of homogeneity disappears after a sufli-
ciently long period of heating at some temperature below that at
which the first drops of liquid are formed, but alloys of bismuth
and antimony fail to become uniform even after weeks of annealing,
whilst the felspars and similar minerals have never been persuaded
to lose their zoned structure by any methods known in the laboratory.
240) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Brunt has shown and Vegard has confirmed the observation by
the X-ray method, that true interdiffusion occurs between potassium
and sodium chlorides when mixed and heated in the solid state.
Kilectrolytic transpert is observed in the solid halides of silver and
in mixtures of silver and copper sulphides, but the modern view of
the structure of such substances represents them as built up of ions
rather than of neutral atoms, and this must be taken into account in
any interpretation of the facts. The apparent absence of diffusion
in minerals which have once solidified, even when given geological
periods of time, is a serious difficulty in the way of any general
theory of diffusion. Such examples of the passage of alkali metals
through quartz and other silicious minerals under the influence of
a difference of electric potential are probably not examples of true
diffusion at all, but merely of the passage of traces of impurities
through a mass which is not completely impervious.

A new field of investigation has been opened up by Tammann in
his attempts to determine the arrangement of the atoms in solid
solutions by purely chemical means, by studying the action of
chemical reagents on the solid. It is a familiar fact that the
“parting” of silver and gold in assaying, which consists in dis-
solving out the silver from the alloy by means of nitric or sulphuric
acid, is only possible when the silver forms more than 60 per cent of
the alloy. When gold is present in excess of this proportion, only
a little silver is removed from the surface, and the action then comes
to a standstill, the acid being unable to penetrate to the interior.
Assuming the alloy to be completely crystalline, the atoms of silver
and gold will occupy the points of the space lattice, and as the two
metals have face-centered lattices of only slightly differing dimen-
sions, the amount of distortion will be small. There are, however,
different ways of arranging the two kinds of atoms. They may be
distributed at random, or they may be so regularly arranged as to
form two interpenetrating cubic lattices.

The two forms of distribution may be distinguished by means of
the X rays, but Tammann has also drawn conclusions on the point
from the action of various reagents on the alloys. He finds that
each reagent which attacks silver ceases to act on the alloys when
the proportion of gold atoms in solution exceeds a certain limit,
which is not the same for different reagents, but he states that it is
always capable of being expressed as one-eighth, two-eighths, three-
eighths, and so on, of the total number of atoms. The limits so
found are not consistent with the distribution according to the laws
of probability, but they may be accounted for by a regular distribu-
tion on the assumption that a certain number of inactive atoms is
necessary to protect each atom of silver.
CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS—DESCH 241

On the basis of these results, an ingenious theory of the action of
reagents on solid solutions has been constructed, and although the
accuracy of the experimentally determined limits is not high, and
there are several exceptions to the rules, an interesting case has been
made out.

If our knowledge of the chemical properties of the interior of a
crystal be very incomplete, what are we to say of its surface? Of
this we know still less. Even in a crystal of a pure metal there must
be some difference in the structure at the immediate surface, on ac-
count of the unsymmetrical forces between the atoms in the outer-
most layer and its neighbors. For so far as the radius of sensible
atomic forces extends, therefore, there must be a condition different
from that which prevails at a depth below the surface. One conse-
quence is that the surface has residual affinity, which shows itself
in the ease with which foreign atoms or ions will attach themselves
to it. That the forces acting are chemical is shown by the great
effect on the extent of adsorption of the chemical character of the
solid and of the adsorbed substance. Films, often one atom thick,
attach themselves to the solid, and are only removed with the great-
est difficulty. Their presence makes the investigation of the prop-
erties of a surface difficult, as the surface actually examined may
be in reality quite different from that which is assumed to be pres-
ent. In photochemical experiments with mercury it is usual to pre-
pare a completely fresh surface of the liquid metal by causing it te
flow continuously in a fountain, but this device can not be applied
to solids. Only rarely can experiments be made with perfectly de-
fined solid surfaces. Films of metal prepared by sublimation or
sputtering in a vacuum are probably the most under control, but
other surfaces are commonly covered by invisible films.

Schumacher has recently shown that mercury wets glass and silica
more and more readily as care is taken to remove films from them,
and the property of not being wetted by mercury is probably not
one of glass and silica, but of those substances coated with a film
of gas. Metals most readily take up atoms of oxygen or other ele-
ments, forming persistent films, which play an important part in the
phenomena of resistance to corrosion.

There is one way of preparing a fresh surface of a crystalline
solid for examination, and that is by cleavage. A freshly cleaved
plate of a mineral may be supposed to be clean at the moment of its
formation, although it will rapidly take up foreign atoms from the
surrounding gas. ‘Tammann has made the interesting observation
that a fresh surface of mica is more soluble in water than an older
one. Washing with water immediately after cleaving extracts a
quantity of alkali salts which is much above the normal solubility of
mica, and later washings extract only the normal quantity. It is sug-
942 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

gested that the separation of the flakes of mica exposes the alkaline
part of the molecules, which would be more readily attacked by
water than the siliceous part. It will be interesting to see whether
the X-ray examination of mica confirms this arrangement. Again,
however, a word of warning as to the effect of possible impurities
must be uttered. Natural minerals are not pure, and any uncom-
bined alkaline salts present might well segregate along cleavage
planes in the process of crystallization, and so give rise to the effect
noticed above, but the figures recorded by Tammann are striking and
suggestive.

In this hurried review of a large field it may seem that I have
presented rather our ignorance than our knowledge, my intention
having been to show how much remains to be done before we can
understand the chemical relations of solids as we do those of liquids
and gases. One department of research is, however, more advanced
than might have been supposed from my brief references to it.
That is the study of the internal changes in metallic alloys as re-
vealed by the microscope and by thermal and electrical methods
Metallography has made wonderful progress since the days of
Sorby, and it would repay students of physical chemistry to give
some attention to its main results, even though they may not intend
to make a special study of the subject. Nowhere are the benefits of
the doctrine of phases of Willard Gibbs to be more clearly traced,
whilst the recognition of every change of phase by microscopical
examination, making use of a technique which has been brought ta
a high state of perfection, gives concrete reality to the study by
direct verification of its conclusions.

To understand more thoroughly the mechanism of these changes
in alloys and to extend its application to salts, minerals, and
rocks, we need a fuller knowledge of the relation between crys-
tal structure and chemical behavior. Research on the mechanical
side is discovering the direction of planes of slip in the atomic space
lattice under stress, and it remains to determine the corresponding
planes of greatest and least chemical activity towards a given re-
agent. Next follows the still unsolved query as to the nature of the
intercrystalline boundary, and the solution of these two problems
will make it possible to define exactly the chemical character of a
given aggregate of crystals. The results will be of extreme interest
for the study of metallurgy, of mineralogy, and of petrology, be-
sides filling a serious gap in chemistry, serious because of the extent
to which solids compose the world around us, and of the part which
they play in our daily life.
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM IN THE TWENTIETH
CENTURY’

By Daniet L. HAzArp
Coast and Geodetic Survey

One of the early presidents of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in his presidential address likened himself
to a biennial plant, which for the first year devotes itself to storing
up a reserve supply of plant food and in the second year bursts into
flower. The character of the flower is an indication of the adequacy
of the stored food supply. The president of this society is in much
the same category.

The close of the nineteenth century witnessed a marked quickening
of interest in the study of the earth’s magnetism, of which one evi-
dence was the expansion of the magnetic work of the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey, the establishment of a separate division
of terrestrial magnetism, and the inauguration of a magnetic survey
of the United States.

Now, after the lapse of a quarter of a century, it will not be amiss
to take account of stock and see to what extent our knowledge has
been increased and how far we have advanced toward the solution of
the perplexing problems of the causes of the earth’s magnetism and
its variations.

It must be borne in mind that the science of terrestrial magnetism
is comparatively young. Although Gilbert in 1600 conceived the
idea of the earth as a great magnet, similar to a spherical lodestone,
he had almost no observational data with which to test his theory,
and it was not until 1838 that a fairly correct idea of the nature of
the earth’s magnetism and its distribution was developed by Gauss
from his analysis of the results at that time available. With the
character of the phenomenon established, the natural philosophers
were quick to realize the importance of observations more widely
- distributed over the earth asa prerequisite for a more effective study.

1 Address of the retiring president of the Philosophical Society of Washington, presented
at the meeting on Jan. 10, 1925. Reprinted by pernrission from the Journal of the
Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 15, No. 6, Mar. 19, 1925.

243
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

On the initiative of Humboldt and Gauss, supported by Herschell,
Kupffer, and Sabine, there was developed one of the earliest cases of
international cooperation for the study of a world-wide phenomenon,
which was remarkably successful when the conditions of transporta-
tion and communication at that time are considered. Magnetic sur-
veys were undertaken, observers were sent to regions where magnetic
observations had not previously been made, including the expedition
of Ross to the vicinity of the magnetic south pole, and magnetic
observatories were established about 1840, at widely separated points,
for the study of the variations of the earth’s magnetism. In spite of
the imperfect instruments then available, the operation of these
observatories served to establish the principal features of the short
period variations of the earth’s magnetism. Some of them were dis-
continued at the close of the limited period for which international
cooperation had been arranged, but others continued in operation
much longer, some (as the one at Toronto, Canada) even to the
present day. It is of interest to recall that, thanks to the zeal of
A. D. Bache, later Superintendent of the Coast Survey, a magnetic
observatory was operated at Girard College, Philadelphia, from 1841
to 1845, and that variation observations were made in this city from
1840 to 1842. One of the observatories established by Russia was
at Sitka, Alaska, and was in operation from 1842 to 1867. The re-
sults obtained brought out the fact that the variations of the earth’s
magnetism are different in different magnetic latitudes and called at-
tention to the probability of some relationship between the-presence
of sun spots and the occurrence of auroras and magnetic storms on
the earth. The desire for more information regarding the connection
between these two terrestrial phenomena led to further international
cooperation in the establishment of a ring of temporary magnetic
observatories around the borders of the Arcfic Ocean to be operated
for three years from 1882.

From that time on the interest in the study of the earth’s magne-
tism steadily increased, not only in the extension of magnetic sur-
veys and in the operation of additional magnetic observatories, but
also in the discussion of the results and investigations regarding the
cause of the phenomenon.

In most countries the magnetic observatories were established as
an adjunct to existing meteorological observatories and given a sub-
ordinate position. At the meeting of the International Meteoro-
logical Conference held in Paris in 1896, however, recognition was
given to the growing importance of the science of terrestrial mag-
netism by the appointment of a Permanent Commission for Ter-
restrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity.

A fresh impulse was given to the growth of interest by the appear-
ance in 1896 of the Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism edited by
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM—HAZARD 245

Bauer, with the cooperation of most of the leading magneticians
of the world. This provided a medium for the interchange of ideas
and a forum for the discussion of problems of international import
of much greater value than the triennial meetings of the international
commission and helped to prepare the way for more ready acqui-
esence in recommendations of the Commission requiring interna-
tional cooperation or agreement.

The investigations of the nineteenth century had shown that
definite conclusions regarding the causes of the earth’s magnetism
and its variations could not be reached until more accurate, more
detailed, and more widely distributed observations had been made,
and the first quarter of the twentieth century has been characterized
by almost world-wide activity in the accumulation of observational
data. More or less detailed magnetic surveys have been made by
nearly every civilized country, new magnetic observatories have been
established, instruments and methods of observing have been im-
proved, greater homogeneity of results has been secured by national
and international comparisons of instruments, and a fuller and more
prompt publication of results has been the rule.

In this accumulation of data the United States has played -a most
important part, and that it has done so is largely the result of the
energy and persistence of Dr. Louis A. Bauer. His efforts in 1899,
backed by those of Dr. Henry 8. Pritchett, at that time superin-
tendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, resulted in the appropria-
tion of funds necessary for the expansion of the magnetic work of
that bureau, so that it became possible to make a general magnetic
survey of the country, including the islands under its jurisdiction and
parts of Alaska, and to establish and operate five widely separated
magnetic observatories. This work was planned and the magnetic
survey carried well toward completion under his direction.

Designed primarily to meet the practical needs of the navigator
and surveyor, this survey at the same time supplied the data needed
for the study of the problems of the earth’s magnetism.

Realizing that only a small portion of the earth’s surface is
occupied by the civilized nations and that it would be extremely diffi-
cult to secure governmental funds for work to be done outside a
country’s jurisdiction, Bauer presented to the trustees of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington a plan for the establishment of a bureau
for international magnetic research, including a world magnetic sur-
vey to supplement the work being done by other agencies. This plan
was approved, and the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the
Carnegie Institution of Washington was established in April, 1904.

76041—26——_17
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

While in charge of the magnetic work of the Coast and Geodetic
Survey, Bauer had satisfied himself of the feasibility of making mag-
netic observations at sea with nearly the same accuracy as on land,
if a suitable vessel could be obtained. His plan for the world survey,
therefore, included provision for a magnetic survey of the ocean
areas by means of a non-magnetic vessel. This work at sea was car-
ried on successfully from 1905 to 1921, first on the Ga/i/ee, a chartered
sailing vessel, and later on the Carnegie, a sailing vessel with
auxiliary power, built for the purpose so nearly free of magnetic
material as to practically eliminate the need of taking account of
deviation corrections.

While this worl at sea was carried on primarily for scientific
purposes, it had great immediate practical value in that it provided
the means for correcting the existing world isogonic charts, which
were found to be seriously in error because of the insufficient data
on which they were based.

At the same time magnetic observers were sent to nearly all ac-
cessible regions where magnetic surveys were not being made under
other auspices and to some regions usually thought of as inaccessible.
Asia, Africa, South America, Central America, Mexico, were all the
field of these far-reaching operations. In some instances, as in
Canada, one season’s work by an observer of the Department of Ter-
restrial Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution of Washington was
sufficient to stimulate local interest to a point where means were
provided for continuing the work under local auspices. Advantage
was taken of these world-wide travels to secure comparisons of in-
struments with the standards of the various magnetic observatories
and other agencies engaged in making magnetic surveys, thus insur-
ing a greater homogeneity of results, in some cases calling attention
to defective instruments and in general emphasizing the importance
of better instruments and methods.

Some idea of the magnitude of the work done in this world mag-
netic survey may be gained from the statement that it covered all
the ocean areas from latitude 70° north to 60°. south, nearly all of
the land areas from 30° north to 60° south, excepting India and the
Dutch East Indies, and in addition parts of China, Persia, and
Canada.

During the same period governmental magnetic surveys have been
made in India, New Zealand, Dutch East Indies, South Africa,
Canada, and Russia (including Siberia), and resurveys have been
made of Japan and the British Islands, and in France, Prussia,
and other European countries. Thus it will be seen that during the
past 25 years there has been executed a world magnetic survey
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM—HAZARD 247

covering practically the whole surface of the earth between latitude
70° north and 60° south.

At the same time the making of magnetic observations has been
recognized as an important part of the work of an exploring expe-
dition, and as a result much information has been obtained regarding
conditions in regions which would not ordinarily be reached. ‘This
is particularly true of the polar regions. The Ziegler expedition to
Teplitz Bay, in 1903 and 1904, Amundsen’s work in the vicinity of the
magnetic North Pole, 1903-1906, and along the north coast of Siberia
in 1918-1921, and the work of MacMillan’s two expeditions served
to reduce materially the size of the magnetically unexplored region
around the North Pole, while the various South Polar expeditions,
German, French, British, and Australasian, between 1902 and 1912,
supplied a large amount of valuable information regarding mag-
netic conditions on the borders of the Antarctic Continent, and served
to locate the position of the south magnetic pole within narrow
limits. The operation of temporary magnetic observatories by some
of the expeditions made possible a comparison of the magnetic varia-
tions in polar regions with those in lower latitudes, the value of the
comparison being enhanced by cooperation at a number of leading
observatories in the form of a more open time scale on the magneto-
grams at specified times.

While there were plenty of magnetic observatories in operation 25
years ago, their distribution was very unsatisfactory. Out of about
40 making reports, 70 per cent were in Europe; there was only one
in North America (‘Toronto), none in South America, and only four
in the Southern Hemisphere. With the new observatories established
since that time there has been a great improvement in the geographi-
cal distribution, so that more than 50 per cent of the present active
observatories are outside of Europe and 10 are in the Southern
Hemisphere. Here again the United States has taken a leading part.
Observatories have been operated by the Coast and Geodetic Survey
at Cheltenham, Md.; Tucson, Ariz.; Vieques, P. R.; Sitka, Alaska;
and near Honolulu, Hawaii, and by the Department of Terrestrial
Magnetism at Watheroo, Australia,and Huancayo, Peru. Other new
observatories at Cordova and New Year Island, Argentina; Vas-
souras, Brazil; Apia, Samoa; Christ Church, New Zealand; Dehra
Dun, India; Helwan, Egypt; Sodankyla, Finland, and Meanook,
Canada, have all helped to extend the area covered. At the same
time some of the older observatories have been discontinued, and
others have been compelled to move to new sites, because of the
encroachment of electric car lines and other industrial developments.

Improved methods and instruments have added materially to the
accuracy of the results. In the development of new and improved
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

field instruments the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism has been
particularly active, to meet the very varied conditions under which it
has had to operate, especially in the matter of observations at sea.
The design of a portable galvanometer, for use with the earth induc-
tor, has made it possible to use that instrument in the field in place of
the dip circle, and the addition of a special device for rotating the
coil of the earth inductor adapted it for use on board ship. The
marine collimator permits more accurate declination observations at
sea, and the sea deflector provides a method of determining directly
the horizontal intensity on board ship. Magnetometers have been
improved to secure greater ease of handling, adjustment and trans-
portation, and various combination instruments have been devised
for use where a very light, compact outfit is essential.

The sine galvanometer, of which three types have been developed,
provides an electrical method for determining the horizontal inten-
sity, combining rapidity with great accuracy. It is particularly well
adapted for a standard instrument, and in Japan it has been used
successfully in the field.

The variometers designed by Eschenhagen, with very small mag-
nets, have permitted the erection of smaller observator buildings
for, the variation instruments and a decrease in the cost of operation,
since it is possible to have three variometers record on a single pho-
tographic sheet. More complete control of the instrumental con-
stants is also provided.

With so much energy being devoted to the collection of A earee
tional data, it would not be surprising to find a falling off in the
attention paid to the discussion of results; but this has been true
only to the extent that the utilization of the data has not kept pace
with its accumulation. There has been no falling off in the zeal with
which magneticians have attacked the problems awaiting solution.
Many of those who had taken a prominent part in the investigations
of the last half of the nineteenth century have gone one by one,
leaving their places to be filled by a younger generation. Schott,
Eschenhagen, Wild, von Bezold, Snellen, Borgen, Sutherland,
Fritsche, Bidlingmaier, Neumayer, Riicker, Birkeland, and Leyst
are among those whose names will always be recalled when review-
ing the progress during that period.

The fundamental problem of the cause of the earth’s magnetism
and its variations, attacked from many sides and with various
weapons, has thus far withstood the attack. One theory after an-
other has been advanced only to be withdrawn before the irresistible
assault of observed facts. Some theories fitted well enough quali-
tatively, but were entirely inadequate when quantity was taken into
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM—HAZARD YAS

account, while others which seemed plausible at one stage of our
knowledge had to be discarded when our knowledge increased.

Advances in other fields of science have been seized upon in the
hope that they might furnish a clue to the mystery of the earth’s
magnetism. Cathode rays, the electronic theory of matter, the con-
stitution of the sun, and the probable condition of the interior of
the earth are all being studied as to their possible bearing on the
magnetic field of the earth. .

Gilbert’s conception of the earth as a great magnet uniformly
magnetized about its axis of rotation, and subsequent modifications,
had to be discarded with the acceptance of a very high temperature
for the interior of the earth and the recognition of the demagnetiz-
ing effect of heat, coupled with the small amount of magnetic mate-
rial found in the visible rocks. At the same time the magnitude of
the anomalies (the departures from a uniform magnetization) indi-
cated the presence of large masses of magnetic material not far from
the surface. Recent investigations in various fields have suggested
the possibility that some of the properties of matter subjected to
very great pressure may be materially different from those observed
in the laboratory at ordinary pressures. Susceptibility to mag-
netization may be one of those properties, and the Department of
Terrestrial Magnetism, with the cooperation of the Geophysical
Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, is arranging
a series of experiments designed to test the matter.

Nippoldt, in 1921, returned to the idea of*the earth as a mag-
netized sphere, because of the difficulty of providing a satisfactory
system of electric currents to account for the observed magnetic field.
He advanced the theory that the principal part of the earth’s mag-
netic field consists of a nonhomogeneous magnetization of the
carth’s crust down to a depth of about 20 kilometers. In addition,
there may exist for the earth’s nucleus a magnetic field symmetrical
both about the axis of rotation and about the equatorial plane which
may have arisen in the same manner as the general magnetic field
of the sun. He assumed that the proportion of magnetite in the
earth’s crust increases with depth below the surface, but that the
distribution is not homogeneous. He also assumed an inner core
composed of iron, nickel, and cobalt, as suggested by geophysicists,
with the possibility that it may be susceptible of magnetization in
spite of the high temperature, in view of the magnetic effects
observed on the sun by Hale.

Adolph Schmidt points out that even on the assumption that at a
depth of 20 kilometers the earth’s crust is composed entirely of
magnetite, the average susceptibility would not be great enough to
account for the observed conditions at the surface.
2950 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

When it became apparent that the concéption of the earth as a
permanent magnet could not be sustained, the idea was advanced
that the earth’s magnetic field might be due to electric currents
flowing about the earth, either below the surface or in the atmos-
phere—the earth an electro-magnet. The mathematical analysis of
the earth’s field according to the method devised by Gauss and
extended by Neumayer and Petersen (1891), and Schmidt (1896),
indicated that a small portion of the earth’s magnetism, perhaps one-
fortieth, could be referred to forces outside th eearth, another small
portion to vertical electric currents, but by far the larger part to a
system of forces within the earth. A new analysis made by Bauer
in 1922, using improved data based on modern observations, gave
approximately the same result. He reached the conclusion that for
a satisfactory representation of the observed data it is necessary to
recognize the existence of an internal magnetic system constituting
about 94 per cent of the total field, and an external system and a
non-potential system about equal to each other in amount.

A comparison of his results with those previously obtained for
the epochs 1842 and 1885 indicated that the intensity of magneti-
zation of the earth had been decreasing during the 80-year period
at an average annual rate of 1 part in 1,500, a rate of loss which it
is hard to reconcile with the age of the earth and the present inten-
sity of magnetization unless we suppose that there have also been
periods of increasing intensity.

Bauer also carried.out the harmonic analysis separately for paral-
lels of latitude at 5° intervals from 60° south to 60° north and found
an apparent correlation between distribution of land and water and
intensity of magnetization, the intensity being greater for the
parallels falling largely on the land.

In an earlier (1911) discussion of the earth as an electromagnet,
Bauer took the position that the system of magnetic forces within the
earth required by the Gaussian analysis might be the result of mag-
netizing currents outside the earth, namely, negative electric cur-
rents circulating from west to east, but he later withdrew this
hypothesis, after further study of the problem. As it seems to be
established that the diurnal variations of the earth’s field and the
disturbances must be ascribed to outside currents, it would be much
simpler to account for those changes if the field itself is due princi-
pally to outside currents.

The idea of the earth as an electro-magnet naturally suggests the
possibility that its magnetism may be caused by its rotation. This
possibility has been the subject of much study, particularly by
3arnett, who has shown experimentally that a piece of iron may be
magnetized by rotation; but the observed effect was much too small
to account for the earth’s magnetism. Swann attacked the problem
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM—-HAZARD 251

mathematically and concluded that any effect due to rotation would
be too small to be detected. In 1900 Sutherland suggested as a pos-
sible cause of the earth’s magnetism the rotation of an electrostatic
field within the earth (a positively charged core and a negatively
charged crust, or vice versa), as Rowland’s experiments had proved
that a moving charge of electricity produces a magnetic field analo-
gous to that of a current, but this theory proved untenable when sub-
mitted to analysis.

The development of the electronic theory of matter with the atoms
consisting of a positively charged nucleus surrounded by negatively
charged electrons led Sutherland to suggest that if for some unknown
reason connected with gravitation the negative charge of the atom
was further from the center of the earth than the positive charge by
only 0.410% em., it would account for a magnetic field comparable
with that of the earth. Here again, when the theory was _ sub-
mitted to analysis and the electronic theory was more fully de-
veloped, it was seen that Sutherland’s hypothesis was untenable
either qualitatively or quantitatively.

Failing to find a satisfactory explanation of the earth’s magnetism
on the basis of the known properties of matter and the accepted
laws of electrodynamics, J. J. Thomson, Sutherland, Bauer, and
Swann have suggested that we may have to look for some slight but
fundamental modification of those accepted laws, possibly as re-
gards the mutual attraction and repulsion of moving positive and
negative electrons, similar to a suggestion by H. A. Lorenz regard-
ing the cause of gravitation. Indeed there seems to be growing a
belief that gravitation and terrestrial magnetism are very closely
allied and probably to be traced to a common origin.

Realizing the difficulties in the way of a direct attack on the
problem, especially before more complete observational data were
available, many magneticians have turned their attention to a study
of the variations of the earth’s magnetism and their correlation with
associated phenomena, such as atmospheric electricity, earth cur-
rents, auroras, sun spots, solar radiation, meteorological phenomena,
hoping in this way to throw light on the main problem. In parti-
cular, magnetic storms, those irregular disturbances of large amp-
litude and comparatively short duration, have been the subject of
much study.

From the time of the earliest comparisons of photographic records
from widely separated observatories, it was recognized that the more
severe magnetic disturbances occur at practically the same time all
over the earth, and further comparative study of abrupt beginnings
and sharp turning points indicated strict simultaneity, the depart-
ures therefrom being ascribed to errors inherent in the time measure-
ments, so that more accurate determination of the time of occurrence
of such salient features was suggested as a method of determining
952 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

differences of longitude. In fact, van Bemmelen, from the mean of
53 abrupt beginnings, computed the difference of longitude between
Batavia, Java, and Greenwich, and obtained a value differing by
only 9 seconds from the one derived in the usual way.

On May 8, 1902, there occurred a magnetic storm, the abrupt
beginning of which coincided with the eruption of Mont Pelée, as
nearly as the time of that disastrous outbreak could be determined.
This apparent coincidence suggested the possibility that the two

—
ow

phenomena might be related. Bauer made a study of this storm in
1910, based on the records of 25 observatories, and reached the conclu-
sion that it did not begin at the same instant all over the earth, but
on the contrary had its origin in about longitude 75° west of Green-
wich and traveled eastwardly around the earth, requiring between
three and four minutes to complete the circuit. A similar study of
another storm of distinctive features supported this conclusion.
For further evidence on this very important question, Faris made
a study of 15 abruptly beginning storms occurring in 1906-1909,
using the records of the five magnetic observatories of the Coast
and Geodetic Survey, and his results apparently confirmed Bauer’s
conclusions, the transmission time again coming out about 314 min-
utes. It was necessary, however, to assume that some of the storms
traveled from west to east, as had been suggested by Bauer. Faris
pointed out that probably the greater part of the error of deter-
mining the time of an abrupt beginning is due to the difficulty of
selecting the exact point of beginning on the curve. Bauer accord-
ingly secured reports from 23 observatories on the same storms
which Faris had investigated, making an effort to secure more
homogeneous data by means of tracings of portions of the curves
showing the points selected for measurement. A discussion of these
more accurate data failed to confirm the conclusions drawn from
the earlier investigations. Rodés also made a study of a number
of abrupt-beginning storms between 1910 and 1921, and found no
evidence of storm propagation of the character suggested by Bauer,
but he did find some indications that a terrestrial magnetic storm
may begin at the “front meridian,” that portion of the earth, that
is, which would be the first to meet a stream of electrified particles
coming from the sun, occurring later on beth sides of that meridian.
The close correlation between the occurrence of magnetic storms
and auroras and the presence of large spots on the sun naturally led
to attempts to trace a causal relationship. It was soon seen that a
direct magnetic effect by the sun was out of the question. With the
development of the idea of currents of electricity being the cause of
the earth’s magnetism, different forms of electric discharge emanat-
ing from the sun were successively put forth as the cause of the
observed terrestrial phenomena, the theories advanced keeping pace
TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM—HAZARD 253

with the development of our knowledge of electrical discharges in
a vacuum.

Birkeland, Arrhenius, and Nordmann agreed in considering the
auroral rays as a luminescence produced by the absorption of cathode
rays in the upper atmosphere, and attracted toward the earth’s
magnetic poles. Birkeland, who devoted many years to the study of
auroras, first supposed that the cathode rays were emitted directly
from the sun, but later he advanced the modified theory that cathode
rays from the sun set up electric currents in the atmosphere which in
turn emit secondary cathode rays. He supported his theory by the
production of artificial auroras in the laboratory, about a magnetized
steel ball in a tube of rarefied air exposed to cathode rays.

Paulsen in 1906, after calling attention to the difficulties with ear-
liex theories, sought to explain the aurora and magnetic storms by a
strong ionization of the upper layers of the atmosphere above the
zone of maximum frequency of the aurora.

Stérmer, who had worked with Birkeland in both his observational
and experimental studies of the aurora, knowing that the phe-
nomenon of the concentration of cathode rays toward a single mag-
netic pole had been mathematically treated by Poincaré, thought it
might be worth while to determine mathematically the trajectories
of electric corpuscles coming from the sun into the magnetic field
of the earth, hoping to bring out the principal features of the aurora.
These studies began in 1903 and covered a period of about ten years.
Stirmer simplified the problem at the outset by treating the earth
as a spherical magnet, and neglecting the relative motion of the
earth and sun, and then modified the results obtained for this sim-
ple case to correspond to the more complex conditions actually
existing. In this way he was able to develop paths for the cor-
puscles which seemed to fit the general features of the aurora as
it appears in nature and of the artificial aurora of Birkeland, and
thus tended to strengthen the corpuscular theory of its origin.

The correlation of magnetic storms with sun spots, although very
satisfactory when based on yearly averages, leaves much to be desired
when individual cases are considered. Thus, severe magnetic storms
sometimes occur when no large sun spots are visible and, on the other
hand, the appearance of a sun spot is not always accompanied by a
magnetic storm. ‘To account for this, Maunder advanced the theory
that the solar activity which gives rise to magnetic disturbances on
the earth does not act equally in all directions but along narrow well-
defined streams, not necessarily truly radial; that these streams arise
from active areas of limited extent; that these active areas are not
only the source of our magnetic disturbances but are also the seats
of the formation of sun spots; that these areas can be active both
before a spot has formed and after it has disappeared. The fact that
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

large magnetic storms frequently follow each other at an interval
approximating the time of revolution of the sun and that such re-
currence has been traced for several rotation periods, not every
recurrence being accompanied by a visible sun spot, requires some
such explanation as that suggested by Maunder.

Chapman, after a detailed analysis of a number of magnetic
storms, attempted to show how some of their characteristics may be
produced by streams of electric particles entering the atmosphere
from the sun, but this theory, like so many others, failed to fit all
the facts.

The researches of Hale at the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory on
the evidence of magnetic polarity in the sun spots occurring in pairs
and on the general magnetic field of the sun have further stimulated
the efforts to trace a connection between solar and terrestrial mag-
netism and opened the way for a study of the details of the sun’s
magnetic field. According to the most recent analysis by Seares,
the sun’s magnetic axis makes an angle of about 6° with the axis
of rotation.

When we consider the diurnal variation of the earth’s magnetism
a different problem is presented. Here we have to deal with a
phenomenon which is a function of local mean time, as contrasted
with magnetic storms, which, as we have seen, occur everywhere
at practically the same absolute time. Attempts have been made
to correlate the diurnal variation with changes of pressure, tempera-
ture, humidity, and other terrestrial phenomena which have a period
the same as the earth’s rotation, but without success. Broadly
speaking the diurnal variation is a function of the position of the
sun above the horizon, distinctly a local phenomenon. The ex-
tremes and the principal portion of the variation occur during the
daytime. During the night hours there is comparatively little varia-
tion. In view of this fact, it occurred to Bauer that the inter-
position of the moon between the earth and the sun at the time of
a solar eclipse might have an appreciable effect on the earth’s mag-
netism. Accordingly he arranged for special observations by ob-
servers of the Coast and Geodetic Survey at the time of the total
eclipse of May 28, 1900, at stations extending from Alabama to
Maryland. The results indicated a small but definite disturbance
associated with the passage of the moon’s shadow across the place
of observation and of the character to be expected. Similar observa-
tions have been made at all accessible solar eclipses since that time,
principally on the initiative of the Department of Terrestrial Mag-
netism of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, but with the
cooperation of other observers in the countries crossed by or con-
tiguous to the belt of totality. These have in general confirmed the
results of the first series, though the effect produced by an eclipse
TERRES rKIAL MAGNETISM—-HAZARD 255

is so small that it can not be definitely recognized when ordinary
magnetic disturbances are in progress.

Much study has been given by Chree, Chapman, and others to
the details of the diurnal variation, particularly to a comparison
between conditions on quiet days and disturbed days and between
conditions in high and low magnetic latitudes. Material has been
provided for a more accurate study of those features which are not
purely local, such as the effect of change of geographic position
on the form and amplitude of the curves, through the publication
by many observatories of diurnal variation tables based on five
internationally selected quiet days, thus eliminating to a large ex-
tent the lack of homogeneity which magnetic disturbances might
introduce.

Still another problem is presented by the secular change of the
earth’s magnetism, which requires centuries for its development.
Time enough has not yet elapsed since the beginning of measure-
ments of the earth’s magnetism to fully determine the character-
istics of this change, but we do know that it does not go on indefi-
nitely in one direction; eventually there is a reversal.

In the case of declination, the records at some European stations
go back far enough to show two reversals, with a range, in the case
of London, of 35° in a little over 200 years. This suggested the
idea of periodicity and a motion of the magnetic pole as the cause
of the secular change, as it seemed possible to follow the occurrence
of a particular phase from east to west around the earth.

Data accumulated during the past 25 years show that the phenom-
enon is very complex. The change is by no means regular; the
periods indicated for different stations differ widely; unexpected
reversals occur and there are undoubtedly waves of shorter period
superimposed upon the primary wave, if indeed there is a primary
wave. It is impossible to predict with accuracy what conditions
will be 10 years from now.

Bauer has made a mathematical analysis of the secular change of
the earth’s field as a whole, and has concluded that the system of
forces involved is partly within the earth and partly outside and
that the strength of the field is changing as well as its direction.
It is not easy to conceive of a system of forces acting for a long
term of years to produce such a great change in the direction of the
earth’s magnetic field. A loss of magnetism would not be surpris-
ing from our experience with artificial magnets, but such a rapid
loss as one part in 1,500 per year for SO years or more requires
verification on the basis of more accurate secular change data for
the whole earth.

Variation of solar activity has been suggested as one cause of the
secular change of the earth’s magnetism. The periodic change in
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

the number of sun spots, which is undoubtedly a symptom of vary-
ing solar activity, is paralleled by an 11-year period in the secular
change, and Bauer has attempted to trace a relationship between
changes in the earth’s magnetism and the changes of solar activity
indicated by Abbot’s observations of the amount of heat given off
by the sun. Abbot’s observations have not yet been going on long
enough, however, to draw any definite conclusions.

Any theory of the earth’s magnetism based on electric currents
either within or outside the earth must take account of the currents
actually observed, and one of the features of the progress of the past
twenty-five years has been the awakening of interest in the study of
atmospheric electricity and earth currents and the development of
instruments for measuring them which can be relied upon to give re-
sults of the required accuracy.

Before long we may also expect the increase in our knowledge of
radio transmission to throw light on electrical conditions of the at-
mosphere at higher levels.

From this summary of the accomplishments in the field of terres-
trial magnetism during the first quarter of the twentieth century, it
will be seen that there has been no sudden increase in knowledge, no
epoch-making discovery, but just a steady advance. The old prob-
jems still confront us, but in a modified form. Their scope has broad-
ened tremendously and any theory to explain the earth’s magnetism
must take into account the structure of the atom as well as the struc-
ture of the universe. At the same time new weapons and new me-
thods of attack have become available and the workers in other fields
of science—astronomers, physicists, geologists, chemists—are now the
allies of the magneticians. Moreover, an accurate magnetic survey
of practically all of the accessible land and water areas and the oper-
ation of additional magnetic observatories, better distributed, have
provided us with reliable knowledge of the distribution of the earth’s
magnetism—the facts which must form the ultimate test of any
theory.

Finally there has been an increasing recognition of the importance
of international cooperation, so well expressed by Riicker in 1898,
when he said: * For those who would unravel the causes of the
mysterious movements of the compass needle, concerted action is
essential. ‘They can not indeed dispense with individual initiative or
with the leadership of genius, but I think all would agree that there
is urgent need for more perfect organization, for an authority which
can decide not only what to do, but what to leave undone.” We may
confidently expect that the Section of Terrestrial Magnetism and
Electricity of the International Geodetic and Geophysical Union
will eventually develop into an organization of the character sug-
gested by Riicker.

SOME CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY 3

By ArtHuR L. Day

[With 38 plates]

Several years ago I had the privilege of presenting to the Institute
some conclusions respecting the sources of the energy through which
the lava lake in the crater of the Volcano Kilauea (Hawaii) was
maintained in a fluid condition. The evidence then offered was
obtained in association with KE. 8. Shepherd,? from observations
on the ground and in the laboratory, and may be reviewed somewhat
briefly as follows:

Observations of the temperature of the lava lake, taken morning
and evening and often at intervening hours of the day and night
through a period of two months, revealed very considerable changes
of temperature for so large a body of liquid magma. On June 138,
1912, for example, the surface temperature was 1,070°. On July 6,
1912, it was 1,185°. Temperatures as low as 950° have since been
measured in the lava lake, and in its less active pools any temperature
down to the point of actual solidification may be encountered. The
lake in 1912 had the form of a single pool without partitions, differ-
ences of level, or islands, and was approximately 800 feet long by
500 feet wide (pl. 1, fig. 1). The depth of course was problematical
and not subject to direct observation except that the lava level rose
and fell by small amounts daily and observations over a period of
years have shown maximum differences of about 700 feet; the con-
taining basin must therefore have had a depth greater than this. In
June, 1912, when these temperature observations were made, the lava
steod about 200 feet below the rim and therefore some 500 feet above
its lowest observed level during those years. The mass of lava con-
tained in the basin was therefore very considerable and a rise in its
temperature from 1,070° to 1,185°, 115° within 23 days, must in-
volve a very large and very rapid access of heat from some source
below other than new lava, for the quantity of lava contained in the
erater during this 23-day interval under observation was substan-
tially constant.

1 Address delivered on the occasion of the Centenary Celebration of the founding of the
Franklin Institute, September 17, 18, and 19, 1924.

2 Arthur L. Day and E. S. Shepherd, Water and Voleanic Activity. Bull. Geol. Soc. Am,
24, 573-606, 1913. Smithsonian Annual Report 1913, pp. 275-305.

257
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

It is important to note further that islands are frequently present
in the lake which have an upward and downward movement of dif-
ferent character and period from that of the fluid lava; also that
when a fall of the fluid lava occurs it often exposes what appears to
be solid material only a few feet below the previous liquid surface,
with no relation to the 700-foot level or to any deep-seated point.
Such observations compel the admission that the material contained
within the lava basin is considerably diversified in its physical state ;*
some is very fluid and some nearly or quite rigid.

This observation led to a rough laboratory test of some signifi-
cance. On those occasions when the lake overflows its banks, which
is a matter of daily occurrence during the rise of the lava column,
there is visible movement of the fans and rivulets of new lava over
the crater floor until they are so far cooled down that hardly a
trace of red glow from them can be seen. The lowest temperature
at which movement can be detected is therefore of the order of 600°.
A fragment of this same lava brought to the laboratory and re-
heated will not flow under its own weight until a temperature in
the neighborhood of 1,300° has been reached. Such an observation
is significant of a change of composition and yet the only change
of composition possible must be in the amount of volatile matter
(gas) in solution in it. Gases are given off in abundance during
cooling and their loss takes away from the lava its fluidity over a
considerable range of temperature.

This observation taken with the other perhaps explains why the
physical state of the lava in the basin is thus discovered to be partly
rigid and partly fluid, partly porous and partly dense—its gas
content is variable; and a further consequence is altogether probable,
namely, that there are differences of temperature throughout the
mass of material filling the crater greater even than the observed
differences at the surface.

Moreover, during this period of continuous observation in 1912
it was uniformly noticed that an increase in the amount of gas dis-
charged at the surface of the lake was always accompanied by a rise
in surface temperature, and conversely during falling temperature
the gas fountains diminished in number. <A photograph taken at
a time when the temperature was highest (July 3, 1912) offers a
distinct record of more than 1,100 fountains distributed almost uni-
formly over the surface of the lake (pl. 1, fig. 2) while at other times
no fountains at all are to be seen for intervals of a minute or more,
and then only an occasional one appears. This observation imme-
diately led us to the conclusion that there is a causal relation be-

*1T. A. Jaggar. Seismometric Investigation of Hawaiian Laya Column, Bull, Seism.
Soc. Am. 10, 160, 1920.

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Day PLATE |

|. THE LAVA LAKE OF HALEMAUMAU IN JUNE, 1912, SHOWING Low GAS CONTENT

2. THE LAVA LAKE AT ITS PERIOD OF MAXIMUM ACTIVITY, JULY, 1912
CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—-DAY 259

tween the amount of gas discharged through the lava and the tem-
perature of the fluid lava itself. The gases somehow contribute to
the heat of the lava body.

One of the purposes of this aeiudlition of 1912 was to collect
gas from the lava basin at Kilauea if it should prove in any way
practicable to do so. We were accordingly equipped with collecting
tubes, pumps, and pipe lines, but it was some days before a favorable
opportunity offered. Just how fortunate we were in this collection
we did not then appreciate, nor indeed for some years afterward,
but it is probable that the gases then collected from a Java fountain
on the crater floor, immediately adjacent to the lake itself, contained
less evidence of contamination by atmospheric air than any volcano
gases collected before or since. The conditions under which these
gases were collected have been described before* and need receive
no detailed attention at this time. They were studied in part by
extemporized tests on the ground and in part through careful analy-
sis in the laboratory some time later.

Two conspicuous features were revealed by these studies which
bear intimately upon the subject of this paper and upon the study
of volcanism in general, namely, (1) that the gas content of the
different tubes filled at that time was widely different; (2) that
the gases, whose composition we determined, could not be in equi-
librium at the time and at the temperature of their escape from
the lava. The first observation leads directly to the conclusion that
the composition of each bubble which breaks through the surface,
even from the same opening, is different; the second to the conclusion
that the gases are necessarily in process of reaction at the time of
their release. From our knowledge of gas reactions it follows,
further, that gases still in process of reaction at the time of release
after passage up through the basin of liquid lava, must have been
in process of reaction throughout their upward progress, that is to
say, there must have been bubbles of gas of different composition
uniting beneath the surface at frequent intervals during this
excursion.

The analyses of the gases collected at that time revealed the
presence of the following gases in different proportions in the collec-
tions: N., .H.O,..CO,;,,CO;, SO., free: H, free S, Cl, F, and: NH.
Argon was also found after the first announcement was made.
It is of course plain that free hydrogen can not exist side by side
with SO, or CO, at a temperature in the vicinity of 1,000°. Nor
is free sulphur appropriately found in this group at 1,100° C. In-
deed the fact that the proportions of these gases vary from tube to
tube when collected by continuous pumping from the same opening

‘Arthur L. Day and E. 8S. Shepherd, op. cit,
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

plainly indicates that their relation can not be a constant or a
stable one.

Our knowledge of the reactions which must be taking place
between these gases is adequate to establish the fact that heat is
being contributed to the lava mass in consequence of these reactions
going on within it. We have, therefore, certainiy hit upon one of
the sources of energy which serves to maintain the particular type
of volcanism which is familiar to all at Kilauea. Very probably
we have done somewhat more than this. If we have established the
fact that continual reaction is going on during the passage of the
gases through the lquid lava, whereby heat is contributed to the
lava, it is a probable consequence that the temperature reaches its
maximum at or near the surface. The consequences of this decision
are somewhat far-reaching if one is minded to pursue them to their
logical conclusion. For example, it appears to follow that the
temperature in the basin will be lower as we go down into the lava,
rather than higher, whence it is reasonable to suppose that the en-
tire phenomenon is local and superficial rather than deep-seated.

Dr. T. A. Jaggar, director of the Hawaiian Research Laboratory,
has already confirmed this deduction regarding the temperature
gradient by actual measurements of the lava temperature.” He used
for this purpose a stout iron pipe within which groups of Seger
cones were fastened at regular intervals and thrust it into the lava
as far as he could (20 feet). Temperatures were found to be some-
what variable but lower by 100° or more than at the surface. The
existence and behavior of the islands and the heavy semirigid masses
below the surface upon which they rest, also indicate a lower temper-
ature below, for the circulation of gases in these masses will be con-
siderably hampered. Very likely they are themselves losing gas
more or less continually and thereby losing their fluidity. In any
event such a temperature distribution does not afford support for
the old hypothesis that volcanoes are “ safety valves” to insure the
stability of a molten interior, indeed they afford not the slightest
indication of the existence of a generally molten interior.

In a book which appeared quite recently Mr. Harold Jeffreys,
of Cambridge University, offered a careful analysis of existing evi-
dence of the manner of formation of the earth ® and the probable
state of its interior. His reasoning has seemed to me to include more
of modern physics and chemistry than the reasoning hitherto applied
to the constitution of the earth. He figures that the gaseous mass,

presumably split off from the sun by tidal rupture due to another

5T. A. Jagger, Voleanologie Investigations at Kilauea, Am. J. Sci. (4), 44, p. 208 et
seq., 1917.

6 Harold Jeffreys. The Earth, its Origin, History and Physical Constitution. Cam-
bridge, 1924.
CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY °61

heavenly body passing too near, condensed within a comparatively
short time to a liquid nucleus. This nucleus in its normal con-
vection cooling then acquired a crust which broke up and sank as
soon as formed, its specific gravity being measurably greater in the
solid than in the liquid state. It is no more than a generation since
distinguished physicists were still in doubt about the relative den-
sity of solid and liquid lava, and some then believed that the crust
ought to float as readily upon the molten interior of the earth as
patches of crust float upon a liquid lava basin, like that at Kilauea
(pl. 2, fig. 1). Closer observation, however, has since established the
fact that the floating is but temporary and is due to nothing more
than the accident of gas accumulations beneath these patches of
crust, which give sufficient buoyancy to support them on the sur-
face for a long time, but only for so long as they remain perfectly
poised. The rise of a bubble more violent than the rest, which is
sufficient to tilt one of these blocks but a very little, or an over-
lapping wave in the lava surface, will quickly cause them to lose
the supporting gases and to glide out of sight beneath the surface
much as a piece of sheet iron sinks in water.

The normal behavior of a crust forming upon a fluid mass highly
charged with gas, such as we must believe the nucleus of the earth
to have been, is to sink, and so Jeffreys concludes that though the
first blocks to sink were undoubtedly remelted presently in the
course of their downward movement and so merely helped to cool
the magma, eventually the sinking crust. accumulated at the center
and the resulting earth became in consequence something of a honey-
comb structure, the rigidity of which may quite properly be equal
to that of steel, as has been so completely shown by the tidal studies
of Michelson and Sir George Darwin, and that any portions remain-
ing liquid can be nothing more than the product of local conditions
which presumably are slowly passing away.

This concept of the formation of the earth as a whole readily lends
itself to the interpretation of volcanoes as we find them. It is
extremely difficult to conceive of a volcano as the safety valve of a
molten interior, as the older geologists were accustomed to think of
it, or of a molten layer concentric with the crust as it was later con-
ceived to be, so long as two such openings continue to exist side by
side in the Island of Hawaii, one of which (Mauna Loa) is 10,000
feet higher than the other (Kilauea) and yet liquid lava emerges
more frequently and in greater quantity from the higher opening, or
its subsidiaries, than from the lower. It is also a matter of record
that greatly increased activity in the one basin rarely finds an echo
in the other. The liquid lava of Hawaii is at least two and one-half

76041—26——18
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

times heavier than water. If these two outlets were connected with
a common liquid interior the lava column in the higher conduit
would be pressing for discharge at the lower opening, not at the
higher, and with a pressure of the order of magnitude of a thousand
atmospheres upon every square inch of its area. Similarly the
voleanoes of Central America and of the Alaskan peninsula main-
tain each its independent behavior apparently regardless of what is
happening to its neighbors. So far as the record of field observations
goes therefore the number of simultaneous eruptions which have
occurred in neighboring volcanoes in recent time is so small as to
leave little room for any other explanation than coincidence.

If for these several reasons we limit our conception of a volcano
to a purely local phenomenon arising from unusual local conditions,
and if we may assume that other observations above outlined offer
reasonable ground for the supposition that gases, reacting among
themselves, contribute materially to the heat necessary to maintain
a small lava basin like that at Kilauea in a liquid state, then we have
two further steps to take in order to give to this concept a tangible
and reasonably independent existence. First where may such an
extraordinary phenomenon as a volcano be supposed to take its
origin, and second by what means is the indispensable heterogeneity
among the gases maintained in consequence of which the reactions
occur? Obviously this is reasoning somewhat beyond any phenomena
actually observed, but the underlying region beneath a volcano will
perhaps never be accessible to direct observation, so that inference
from the best experience we have must be drawn upon to complete
the picture.

Before attempting to indicate the direction in which this search
leads it will be helpful to consider the phenomena at another volcanic
center which was active between 1914 and 1917. I refer to Lassen
Peak in California. This volcano is entirely different in its behavior
from Kilauea. Instead of an open basin of liquid lava, more or less
continuously active but rarely overflowing, here is an explosive
volcano which emitted no liquid lava and only once during its four
years of activity reached the temperature indicated by red heat.

The outbreak at Lassen Peak began with an explosion in the
summit crater in the early spring (May 30, 1914), the first outburst
breaking through snow of considerable depth. These explosions
continued at intervals of four or five days throughout the summer
and autumn, possibly to some extent in the winter season also, but
Lassen Peak is over 10,000 feet high and the summit during’ the
winter season is shrouded in cloud. In May of 1915, almost exactly
one year after the initial explosion, came three days of terrific
activity, during which the dust cloud reached a height of 25,000
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Day PLATE 2

|. THE LAVA LAKE, SHOWING GREAT PATCHES OF CRUST FLOATING
UNDER THE BUOYANT ACTION OF GASES RELEASED BENEATH. JULY,
1912

2. LASSEN PEAK AFTER THE ERUPTION OF MAY 22, 1915, SHOWING THE
DEVASTATED AREA EXTENDING FOR 5 MILES TO THE NORTHEAST OF
THE MOUNTAIN
CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY 263

feet above the summit of the mountain and blocks the size of a man’s
hand were thrown for 10 miles. During this culminating outbreak,
or just before it, the old volcano plug forming the floor of the crater
was raised 300 feet or more to a position level with the crater rim,
the force behind it apparently being just insufficient to blow it com-
pletely off the mountain and so to expose the volcano hearth. The
point of greatest weakness then proved to be at the northeast side of
the inclosing cone, somewhat below the summit, and two devastat-
ing, horizontal explosions, the latter concluding the period of most
violent activity, found vent through this opening. Although the
adjacent valleys of Hat Creek and Lost Creek were stripped of all
vegetation for a distance of more than four miles by these horizontal
blasts (pl. 2, fig. 2), no fire appears to have been set by the explosions,
save momentarily on the face of a steep cliff directly exposed to the
second blast, and even this was confined to a small area of dead
leaves and twigs which supported combustion for no more than a
few moments. Red-hot ejecta at the summit or illuminated smoke
clouds at night were seen only once (May 19, 1915) and then the
color was described as “deep red,” indicating a temperature not
higher than 750°. Generally the ejecta which were thickly strewn
about the country adjacent to the crater were not warm enough to
melt the snow on which they fell and even when of great size they _
broke through the snow without melting it away. In midsummer
likewise no case is known where the ejecta were hot enough to kindle
a forest fire, although a careful watch was kept by the Forest Ranger
Service through four summers for just such a contingency.

Following this outburst the eruptive activity gradually subsided,
the year 1916 offering but a few mild explosions and 1917 only a
short concluding outbreak (also in May), of considerable violence
while it lasted, but not comparable either in volume or intensity with
the great outbreak of May, 1915.7

This brief outline of the character of the eruption of Lassen Peak
is sufficient to show that in spite of the violence of the explosions
no evidence of the high temperatures of Kilauea or Vesuvius * ap-
peared at the surface during the entire period of activity. There
were steam explosions of tremendous volume and power, but no local
development of heat by chemical activity, such as has been described
in the case of Kilauea, was detected at any time.

In considering this case it 1s appropriate to emphasize the fact
that there has been no other eruption of this volcano since the region

7¥or further details and laboratory studies see Arthur L. Day and E. T. Allen, ‘‘-The
Voleanie Activity and Hot Springs of Lassen Peak,’ Carnegie Inst. of Washington, Pub-
lication No. 860, 1925.

®For an account of activity of Vesuvius in recent years see F. A. Perret, ‘The Vesu-
vius Eruption of 1906, Study of a Voleanie Cycle.’ Carnegie Inst. of Washington, Pub-
lication No. 339, 1924.
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

was inhabited by white men, and geological conditions indicate that
at least 200 years have elapsed since the last show of activity.

If a volcano is assumed to be a slowly cooling system maintained
by residual heat from a local hot zone below the surface, then what
manner of mechanism is it which can account for the sudden de-
velopment in such a cooling system, of violent explosive activity suf-
ficient in volume to extend over several years, and of such intensity
as to cover the surrounding country with boulders of considerable
size, without displaying evidence of high initial temperature or con-
tributory chemical reactions?

It has been a long search to find an explanation which appeared
properly to account for an outbreak of this kind, but a suggestion
has at last been found, partly as a result of theoretical reasoning
and partly from experience in the laboratory, which appears to
account for it completely and at the same time to go far toward
elucidating the entire problem of volcanism.° Freed from chemical
terminology the mechanism is simply this: A silicate solution in
its liquid state can take up water in solution in considerable quan-
tity. A simple solution of silica and potash when heated under
pressure in the laboratory is capable of taking up as much as 12.5
per cent of water in solution. A rock magma in the earth is just
such a silicate solution, although more complicated in character,
and is entirely competent to carry 5 or 6 per cent of water in solu-
tion under appropriate conditions.’° If it should happen that the
lava beneath a volcano carries such quantities of water in solu-
tion, then all the phenomena of volcanism become appreciably
clearer, for in the 8,000 or more analyses of crystalline rocks of
igneous origin which have been gathered together by Washington
and published by the United States Geological Survey! there is
none containing more than 114 per cent of water and less than 1
per cent is usual. This must mean that in the process of crystal-
lization of the rock from the magma the water content is for the
most part discharged. Should it happen that this discharge of
water takes place in a closed space then immense pressures might
develop and explosive activity of tremendous intensity might result.
Furthermore if the amount of participating magma were large and
the rate of crystallization considerable, such activity might continue
for long periods of time.

Beneath the surface, magma basins are of course inaccessible to
direct observation, but two facts have been noted in the study of

°G. W. Morey. ‘“ The Development of Pressure in Magmas as a Result of Crystalliza-
tion.” Journ. Wash. Acad. 12, 219, 1922. Arthur L. Day and KE. T. Allen, op. cit.
~ Cf. J. W. Judd et al. “'The eruption of Krakatoa and subsequent phenomena,” p. 36

(Rept. of Krakatoa Com., Roy. Soc. London, 1888).
1171. S. Washington, “ Chemical Analyses of Igneous Rocks, ete.” U. S. Geol. Surv.
Prof. Paper 99, 1917.
CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY 265

volcanoes which tend to confirm this reasoning. It has already been
stated that the lava lake at Kilauea has a temperature, usually, be-
tween 1,000° and 1,200°, and fluid lava overflowing the rim of the
basin at that temperature, still remains fluid at 700° or 800° (red
heat.) This is of course representative magma or lava which is in
process of crystallization. If samples of this lava be collected after
solidification and reheated in the laboratory, they can not be brought
again to molten condition below 1,300 degrees. It is, therefore, clear
that the fluidity of the lava in the basin is due primarily to the vola-
tile ingredients which it contained and has discharged during crys-
tallization, of which water is the chief. In complete accord with this
the great outbursts of gas and dust-laden steam from the more
violent volcanoes, like Vesuvius or Lassen Peak, are nothing other
than this volatile content of the magma below, discharged
explosively.

It sometimes happens that volcanic magma either through pecu-
liarities of chemical composition or through sudden exposure,
whereby it is quickly chilled, solidifies without crystallization. Such
volcanic glasses are commonly called pitchstones or obsidians. A
very considerable mass of such obsidian is familiar to all tourists
in the Obsidian Cliff at Yellowstone Park. In smaller quantities
obsidian is frequently found in nearly all volcanic regions. Such
uncrystallized volcanic magma when analyzed is often found to
have retained much more of its water content than the 114 per cent
maximum which has just been cited for crystalline rocks.!? Here,
therefore, is direct confirmation—i. e., as direct as the inaccessible
character of the subject is ever likely to permit—of the conclusion
that the water content of magma before crystallization is greater
than the water content of the rock which forms from it. During the
process of crystallization, therefore, this water must in some manner
be discharged.

If we apply these observations to Lassen Peak and suppose a body
of magma in process of slow crystallization at relatively low tem-
perature to exist beneath the mountain, and suppose further that the
water set free during the crystallization process is maintained under
pressure in a closed chamber, there is danger of a violent outbreak
whenever a structural weakness develops in the containing vessel.
Lassen Peak is situated in a region often visited by earthquakes. It,
therefore, requires no violent stretch of the imagination to believe
that one of these earthquakes did in fact weaken the structure early
in 1914 and that in consequence of this a small explosion through
the floor of the summit crater occurred. More or less in confirmation
of this supposition the forest rangers who first visited the mountain

“2 Cf. J. W. Judd, op. cit.
°66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

on the day following the explosion noted two cracks extending east
and west from the explosion opening for a hundred feet or more.
The explosion itself, so far as may be gathered from witnesses, was
wholly inadequate in volume to split open the mountain, and indeed
the small crater formed by the explosion is reported to have been no
more than 20 by 40 feet and extended only a few feet into the loose
scoriaceous material covering the crater floor.

This discharge of steam in violent explosion was followed by
similar outbreaks at intervals of three or four days during the next
seven or eight months, the periodicity being determined no doubt by
the rate of crystallization and the amount of the overlying load. In
general the volume and intensity of the successive explosions increased
as they proceeded, which might reasonably be expected, as more
and more of the crystallizing mass came to feel the release of pres-
sure after the opening had been made.

The laboratory study of such solutions indicates a further possi-
bility through which the early stages of such an outbreak might be
expedited. The fact that even when the explosions had reached their
maximum intensity there was no development of high temperature,
suggests that the magma below may itself have been at a relatively
low temperature, ultraviscous and inert through undercooling, that
is to say, being inclosed within an impervious containing vessel at
comparatively low temperature, crystallization had slowed down
until considerable portions were cooled below the temperature of
normal crystallization while still in the vitreous state. It is of course
well known that silicate solutions (cf. window glass) are prone to
crystallize with extreme slowness, otherwise probably we should
have no glass industry. Im such an inert mass therefore in which
crystallization was proceeding thus slowly, the advent of water vapor
from without would have the effect of diminishing the viscosity and
increasing the rate of crystallization.

Following the first explosion at the summit of Lassen Peak it was
noted that the great body of accumulated snow within the summit
crater was rapidly melting and flowing into the explosion cracks.
This water must have found its way to the volcano hearth at first
by percolation and later, within the hot zone, as steam. We know
from laboratory experiment that steam is readily soluble in such
an undercooled silicate magma with the effect of increasing its
fluidity and thereby precipitating crystallization or increasing the
rate of crystallization already going on. The operation of crys-
tallization itself, as has been shown above, sets free more water so
that the operation becomes more or less self-perpetuating so long as
any considerable amount of magma remains uncrystallized within
reach of the outlet channels (reduced pressure). This explanation
CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY 267

appears adequate to account both for the initiation and the progress
of explosive voleanic activity at Lassen Peak during the period of
1914 to 1917. It also indicates the source of the vast amount of water
vapor which is given off in the course of a long series of explosive
eruptions.

In this discussion of the phenomena at Lassen Peak we appear to
have reached an answer to one of the two questions posed earlier in
this address, namely, the point of probable origin of the gases which
participate in volcanic activity. They are in solution in the crys-
tallizing magma and their release takes place under appropriate con-
‘ditions of temperature and pressure when this magma crystallizes to
rock. Chief among these volatile ingredients is undoubtedly water
in most if not in all cases. If water be substantially the only ingre-
dient, as at Lassen Peak, then the volcanic outbreak will consist in
discharges of dust-laden steam, and such solid material as may be
carried out by attrition. If temperatures are higher and the vola-
tile ingredients include chemically active gases such as chlorine,
fluorine, sulphur, hydrogen, and the like, then an accelerated type of
development may be expected, due to the higher temperatures result-
ing from the combination of these gases when oxidized either
through reactions within the magna or with oxygen from the air.
Under such conditions the magma may be forced out in liquid con-
dition (lava flow) and may crystallize in the open air. After observ-
ing the persistance of the open lava lake and noting, as Professor
Jaggar has been able to do by measurement, that the temperature at
the surface is higher than it is immediately beneath the surface, it
again requires but little of the imagination to enable one to under-
stand how such gas reactions may provide the necessary energy to
maintain the lake in fluid condition. The origin of the gases here, as
in the case of Lassen Peak, must be sought in crystallizing magma at
different depths where differences of temperature and pressure must
be responsible for very considerable inhomogeneities (differences of
concentration) in the gases from different local sources.

The Kilauea crater is not appropriately pictured as an ordinary
boiling flask with a long narrow neck. It is very doubtful if we
have any ground for such a picture. At any rate during the past
summer (1924) when the lava lake had been drained away through
subterranean channels and the gases were escaping explosively from
the empty basin, the crater was enlarged by the explosions to about
3,500 feet in diameter and 1,500 feet in depth. The volcanic throat
was thus laid open to a depth more than twice as great as on any pre-
vious occasion since it came under the observation of white men, and
a rare and precious opportunity was offered to see what manner of
material occupied the next 800 feet immediately under the lava lake,
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

which has so long filled this throat to varying depths from a few
feet to as much as 700 feet or more.

To those who have thought of the volcano crater as a downward ex-
tending pipe or conduit through which the lavas for centuries have
been quietly poured out upon the surrounding terrane the appear-
ance of the enlarged and deepened opening must have been an
unexpected revelation. It appeared quite dry—no freshly cooled
voleanic glass (obsidian) or partially crystallized lava was visible
below, nor was any found among the fragments thrown out (pl. 3,
fig. 1) by the explosions. The lava fragments were from older layers
than any before exposed at Kilauea, completely crystallized, nearly
free from bubbles, rather fine grained though rich in olivine and feld-
spar phenocrysts like the lavas from its great neighbor, Mauna
Loa, but in physical appearance totally unlike the Kilauea flows
which have almost come to be regarded among geologists as a fixed
type.

At one side of the great bowl, about 600 feet above the bottom,
was an area some 500 feet in its transverse dimension and more than
100 feet thick, which showed here and there a trace of red at night.
The surface also had the appearance of fresh Aa lava, which occa-
sionally flaked off in considerable areas, revealing a bright red patch
beneath. Above it on the rim a hot air-current was continually
depositing fine flakes of freshly-oxidized iron-bearing scale. This
may have been one of the feeders of the lava lake. It was cer-
tainly the hottest spot left exposed in the empty basin. Another
smaller area in one corner of the bottom was distinguished by a half
dozen roaring gas outlets whose throats glowed red at night. This
may have been a smaller feeder. When the lava began to return to
the pit in July it spouted out from a point high up on the talus
pile on the opposite side of the basin in a fountain 175 feet high.
This must have been from a third feeder. No others have so far
been discovered.

Instead of the boiling-flask picture, therefore, we should think
rather of a central collecting tube, with many more or less wide-
spreading branches below, leading to local chambers in which crys-
tallization is proceeding under different conditions of temperature
and pressure. That a number of such branches exist is only dis-
covered on a rare occasion like the present summer when violent
explosions have cleaned out the lava basin and enlarged it to many
times its former volume. Then it is seen that the openings leading
into and out from it are on the side walls, while the bottom is to all
appearance solid, old, and (relatively) cold. Even the solid ejecta
which were thrown out during this period of violent activity include
no obsidian masses and no lava as recent as that represented in the
lava lake and in the flows of recent years.

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Day PLATE 3

|. THE EJECTA THROWN OUT IN THE MAy (1924) ERUPTION OF KILAUEA

2. SHOWING AN OUTFLOW OF LAVA FROM THE TALUS, ABOUT 80 FEET ABOVE
THE LAVA LAKE, JULY, 1912
DAY 269

CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY

That the gases from these different sources differ in composition
is abundantly shown by their continual reaction when they meet in
the lava lake, as has been explained in the earler part of this paper.

That the fluid material in these individual pockets is under dif-
ferent pressures as well as different temperatures is also shown by
many observations of small streams of lava which emerge from the
talus pile, often 100 feet or more above the level of the lava lake,
and flow down into it (pl. 3, fig. 2). Such a flow, observed in June,
1912, lasted for several days and released a very considerable body
of lava.

If the lava lake represented the outlet of a single subterranean
magma chamber with which it is supposed to be connected through
a single neck or funnel, then the establishment of a second conduit
from one to the other will not be competent to deliver lava at a
higher level than the first, or gases of different composition. A
separate chamber and an additional source of energy are necessary
for that. Thus it has happened that the heterogeneous character of
the gases collected, the temperature conditions within the lava basin,
the appearance of the crater when free of all its liquid lava and
the dynamic relations within the lava body when present in the
crater, all point to many sources rather than to a single source both
of gases and of magma.

An interesting sidelight of quite another kind has lately been
thrown on this problem from an entirely unexpected source. In
the month of July, 1919, Professor Jaggar took advantage of a favor-
able opportunity to make a continuous series of observations, extend-
ing through the entire month, of the level of lava in the basin of
Kilauea. The observations were made by vertical triangulation from
datum points on the rim of the pit at intervals of 20 minutes day
and night with the purpose of ascertaining whether or not a lunar
or solar influence upon the lava mass could be established. The
examination of the data was made by E. W. Brown," than whom
there is no one with wider experience in the discussion of tidal
phenomena, and although the curves at first sight appeared to be of
periodic character and were so regarded by Jaggar, no more than
an inch or two in apparent changes of several feet could be attrib-
uted by Brown to luni-solar influence. Had the magma chamber
been very large, an unmistakable tidal effect would certainly have
been found.

And so we return from this investigation also to the conclusion
that volcanoes are local and superficial developments representing

geologically) the last stages of crystallization in a mass of magma
below, of which little remains fluid and this in small (as geologic

18 Ernest W. Brown, ‘* Tidal Oscillations in Halemaumau, the Lava Pit of Kilauea,’’ Am.
Journ. Sci. (5), 9, 95, 1925.
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

dimensions go) pockets which are quite variable in gas content,
pressure, and conditions of chemical equilibrium.

There were times even in late geologic history when quite different
conditions prevailed, when masses of fluid magma were larger and
poured out through crustal rifts several miles in length without
signs of explosive activity or any restraint upon complete freedom
of crystallization and release of their volatile content. Such condi-
tions gave us the successive flows known as the Deccan traps, the
Stormberg lavas of South Africa, and the great basaltic outflows of
the Snake River Basin and adjacent territory in this country, which
covered nearly 250,000 square miles. Latest of these and appro-
priately smallest in extent is the flow from the Laki rift in Iceland
in 1783. It may well be that such outpourings are past. It is a
rare voleanic outburst in modern times which yields as much as a
cubic mile of lava. Matavanu, in Samoa, is reported to have re-
leased this quantity in a continuous flow through the six years
ending in 1912.

Through all of these studies our conclusion seems to stand fast
wherever it is applied, namely, that the outstanding factor in deter-
mining the character of modern volcanism is the gas content of the
crystallizing magma. If this be mainly of steam released in a closed
chamber, as a Lassen Peak, then only steam explosions are to be
expected as the surface manifestation of the crystallization of the
magma below; if to the steam are added such chemically active gases
as chlorine, sulphur, hydrogen and the hydrocarbons, then chemical
reaction between these will be a sufficient cause of higher tempera-
tures and lava flows of the character well known at Vesuvius, Strom-
boli, or Kilauea.
GEOLOGY IN THE SERVICE OF MAN?

By Pror. W. W. Watts, Sc. D., LL. D., F. G. S., F. R.S.,
President of Section C (Geology) of the British Association

INTRODUCTION

Although geology in the modern restricted sense of the word is
over a century old and possesses a flourishing family of descendant
sciences, it is still possible to trace its immediate parentage and an-
cestry. The only begetter is unquestionably the mining industry,
and it is to the ample exposure of rocks in mines, their condition
and arrangement in the simpler mining districts, and the necessity
for accurate knowledge of these districts with regard to composition,
succession, and arrangement, that we owe the earliest detailed knowl-
edge of the earth-crust in certain restricted localities.

The other parent was of more advanced years, and may be de-
scribed as “ insatiate curiosity ”; the natural instinct for observing
and collecting odd and bizarre “ rarities ” found in excavations or seen
in natural rock exposures. These fossils, using the word as then
employed and not in the restricted sense now usual, naturally kin-
dled interest by reason of their natural beauty, their regularity in
shape, their properties, their likeness to, and yet their tantalizing
difference from, the appearance of living animals and plants. It
was tempting to draw inferences from their occurrence and to ex-
plain them either by marvellous operations which fuller understand-
ing of nature had not then inhibited, or by means of catastrophic
events like those familiar in the Mosaic cosmogony.

Although much had been observed and thought out by his prede-
cessors, it is to Werner that we owe the most successful generaliza-
tions in a mineral-bearing district; generalizations which gained a
wide influence owing to the enthusiasm and eloquence that attractea
students from all over the world and imbued them with the desire
to confirm and spread the master’s ideas. To Werner also is due
a reaction from thé fanciful speculations of preceding periods with
which he was so impatient that he proposed to drop the very term

1 An address delivered before Section C (Geology) of the British Association at Toronto,
1924. Reprinted by permission from the Geological Magazine, Vol, LXI, Nov., 1924.

271
VP fp: ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

eeology and to substitute his own word “ geognosy ” for it, a word
intended by him to separate the knowable from the unknown.

Probably there would have been less controversy between Nep-
tunists and Plutonists had Werner committed more of his work
to writing, and not left us dependent on his pupils for their ver-
sions of his views. But it is a curious fact, and one probably not
dissociated from a geologist’s devotion to field study, that many of
those who have made great advances have either disliked the act of
writing or have been unfortunate in the style of their written work.
It will be sufficient to couple with Werner in this respect such names
as William Smith, Sedgwick, and even Hutton, not to mention those
of more recent geologists. It has not been from Smith alone that
views and conclusions have had to be extracted almost by force
and committed to writing by faithful devotees.

Yet, after all, this failing has not been without its advantages.
The joy of such men is in discovery, and they are happy and con-
tented when, but only when, they feel perfect confidence in their
conclusions. If their results then get published it is with an author-
ity and finality denied to lesser men. In the progress of their work
they are apt, as in fact all of them did, to infect their friends and
students with the enthusiasm that only the spoken word can arouse.
And to others they have always been most generous, even lavish, in
giving ideas and momentum, partly out of sheer good nature, but
much more through the desire to watch the germination of the good
seed that they sow broadcast and to see the harvest reaped, not by or
for themselves but for the advantage of the science whose welfare is
their chief care.

During the early growth of the science, as in human families, it
was the mfluence of the other parent that was most felt. From
the earliest thinkers of Greece and Rome we have record of number-
less observations and discoveries, sometimes in respect of minerals
or organic fossils, sometimes of unusual phenomena in mountains
or volcanoes or in the relations of sea and land, generally leading
to reasoned conclusions, many of them perhaps fanciful, some even
absurd, but others so sound and far-seeing that they have not been
upset at the present day. Many other countries, joining the favored
ones along the Mediterranean, carried the torch forward, and in
spite of the clogging influence of the vested intellectual interests of
the day, the stock of knowledge gradually grew, until we find that
Leonardo da Vinci was able to make as great an advance in the
knowledge of the earth as he did in his own arts of painting, sculp-
ture, and architecture.

It is true that during this period observers had a tendency to
confine themselves too exclusively to one or other side of their sub-
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 273

ject and were in the habit of reproaching one another with neglect
of neighboring branches, but even this made for progress by stimulat-
ing competition and discussion.

In spite, however, of all that had gone before in the fields both
of fact-collecting and of speculation, it will be admitted that no
single man made so great an individual advance, or placed it upon
such an enduring foundation, or did so much on which the future
of his science was to depend, as William Smith. And it is note-
worthy that the spur to his discoveries was not so much his theoreti-
cal views or even his scientific zeal, as a plain and practical issue—
the finding of a short cut to speedy and accurate land valuation.

The discovery by the “father of English geology ” that fossils
are the “ medals of creation” and that strata are each characterized
by special suites of organisms was certainly one of the greatest
ever made in the history of geology, and upon it have been founded,
directly or indirectly, almost all the latter advances in the science.
But for the fuller utilization of his discoveries there were needed
the artistic faculty and a wide knowledge of places and people,
both of which he fortunately possessed. Thus he was able to intro-
duce handy, crisp, easily remembered and pleasantly sounding local
terms to characterize his “ formations,” and to represent the out-
crop of strata on maps which were not merely topographical but,
for the first time, were tectonic also. So well did he discharge this
latter function that, a comparison of his general map of England
with the latest production of the Geological Survey on a scale at
all comparable with it fills one with astonishment at the amount of
work accomplished by him single handed, and with admiration for
his accuracy.

It is strange that, in the amateur and official work which followed
during much of the nineteenth century, so little interest was taken
in the industrial application of geological knowledge which, in
Smith’s hands, had been so productive. The science had, as has been
said, the “landed manner,” and the dignity of its application to arts
and industries was little appreciated. A former director of the
Geological Survey of Great Britain, Sir Andrew Ramsay, quoted
with approval the saying of one of his colleagues, “it is but the
overflowings of science that enter into and animate industry.” And
thus, though the scientific side of geology stood to gain much other-
wise unattainable information from contact with its economic ap-
plication, this source of knowledge was not fully utilized, and an
air of mutual suspicion—not wholly unjustified—grew up between
“theoretical” geologists and those who applied geology to mining
and other economic problems. Fortunately this feeling is passing
away; the two sides have found that each is indispensable to the
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

other, and geologists are everywhere cooperating with those whose
work is connected with the discovery or exploitation of the mineral
wealth of the earth-crust.

MATERIAL SERVICE

Coal._—The first branch of industry to which geology made itself
indispensable was coal mining. Geology has long been in close con-
tact with its problems, in mapping the extent of coal fields, collecting
information as to the succession of measures and the existence and lie
among them of wants, faults, and igneous rocks, tracing the exten-
sion and variation of coal seams, and estimating the resources avail-
able; and, as seams are worked at increasing depths, and in those
parts of fields concealed under thick unconformable cover of more
recent formations, the work of the geologist has become more essen-
tial and increasingly productive.

It is interesting to observe the application of the “academic”
sides of geology to these more recondite problems, in unravelling
tectonic complexes, in the collection of facts which may eventually
elucidate the precise conditions under which different varieties of
coal have originated, in applying knowledge as to the limits of the
original areas of coal deposit, in the interpretation of stratification
in the light of progressive travel of coal-forming conditions geo-
graphically across the coal-producing areas, and in the stratigraphi-
cal relationship and exact mode of formation of the covering rock
systems. ;

It is true that the accessibility of coals when first exploited, and
their distribution in seams of varying quality, led, and in the newer
areas are still leading to much waste; waste on fruitless search in
the light of obtainable knowledge, in exploitation of good, thick,
and easily worked seams to the neglect of poorer ones, in the non-
preservation of satisfactory plans and the consequent leaving of
derelict areas, in unsatisfactory drainage, and in the loss of valuable
by-products. But there is a corresponding advantage to those of our
generation that some exposed areas of complicated structure,
and many of the concealed coal fields were left for ourselves and
future generations by reason of working difficulties which it would
have been premature to face in the time of easily obtained abundance.

Even to-day, in spite of improved technical knowledge, there re-
main many areas in which information and inference are both scanty,
and where difficulties met in working have not yet been surmounted,
while there will be in the future ample scope for improved methods
and inventions to deal with coal at greater depths than those at
which it can at present be economically worked. There is room for
much new and more precise study than has yet been devoted to the
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 21D

variation of coal seams, both in the vertical direction and when
traced over the wide areas of their extent. Elaborate and knowl-
edgeable sampling, followed by new means of testing, and these
again by new methods for recognition of varieties, have still to be
put into practice before it can be said that we are making a Jjusti-
fiable and economic use of the capital reserves stored up in the rocks.

Oil_—While we blame our forefathers for their destructive and
wasteful handling of the coal fields, it is ourselves and our own
generation that we must blame for serious waste of oil and the
destructive exploitation of oil fields that have been permitted.
There is no economic subject to which geology has so direct a relation
as the occurrence and exploration of oil fields, and nothing in recent
times has given so much employment and such valuable experience
to geologists all over the world. It is the only example we have
of the sudden introduction of a new source of fuel on a large scale
in a late stage of industrial development, and it has already
revolutionized many branches of engineering practice. The intro-
duction and spread of the internal combustion engine and _ all
that this implies in space economy, cleanliness, labor-saving, and
comfort, has been the greatest engineering feature of the late
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and it has given rise to
systems and methods which mankind would be loath to abandon.
The whole world is being searched to prolong the good times that
we live in; but in spite of the fact that there probably still remains
a recoverable percentage in the oil producing areas, and that there
must be new fields awaiting discovery, there are already signs that
the high oil mark has been reached if not passed. But, again
it is no small comfort that although our supply of native oil, easily
won and easily refined and applied, cannot last very much longer,
there are abundant supplies of oil shale still left, sufficient to take
its place for very many decades to come.

Metals, etc-—Although the greater part of to-day’s session is to
be taken up by papers and discussions on special sides of economic
geology by those who are far more competent than I to speak
on them, I can not resist the temptation to say a few words on that
side of the subject which touches on metal mining. There is
probably no subject which has been in the past more dominated
by the “ practical man,” who may be defined as the most theoretical
of all men, but whose theories are seldom proved and are often
not susceptible of proof. The valuable information that was ac-
cessible to him has been wasted because he could not use it to
the best advantage, or else it has been lost because he could or
would not impart it. On the other hand, the “theorist,” as he
has been contemptuously named, has been hampered because he
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

has often only been called in when difficulties were excessive and
when the train of facts or reasoning which would have been so
valuable to him has been lost.

In Britain the mining industry is so old and the mineral wealth
in certain spots was so plenteous and accessible that the metal-
mining geologist has had little chance. The eyes have been picked
out of the mines long ago, and in certain cases their very bones
picked clean, and the country has been left in such a condition
that its original state can only be guessed at, and problems of
relationship, structure, and origin are past solution. Consequently,
it is in the countries which have not been inhabited by successive
races of highly civilized peoples, or in relation to substances for
which there was in the past little or no demand, that the subject
has been susceptible of real advance.

Thus it is that such strides in mining geology have been made
in Canada, the United States, India, South Africa, and Australia,
where there has been a fair field to work upon, and where preliminary
surveys have opened up the country and given an idea of its hidden
resources. In no other areas of the world has the work of official
surveys been watched more carefully by men of capital and enter-
prise, and money has rarely been lacking for development where
there seem to be prospects of a fair return for it. Fortunately,
too, the training of official geological surveyors has provided a type
of geologist exceptionally well fitted both to prospect independently
and to follow out in minute detail, and from a different viewpoint,
the preliminary and less detailed examination which is all that is
practicable in an official survey. These men have carried with
them not merely competence and enthusiasm, but a thorough belief
in scientific principles, an extensive knowledge of borderline sciences,
and the ability to apply both principles and methods to the
problems involved. In the hands of such men the surest guides
are scientific principles, just as in the hands of those with “a
little learning ” imperfectly understood principles are most danger-
ous; and as the search for ores becomes keener, and as deposits
smaller and more tenuous become worth working, the need for
increased knowledge of principle and for minute detail in observa-
tion steadily grows.

Fortunately, we have not yet exhausted the existing stores of
highly concentrated and singularly pure ores, salines, refractories,
etc., and the need is less acute than it will become eventually for
much improved methods of concentration and purification. When
we feel the pinch it will be necessary to call upon the chemist to
endeavor to make available the abundant supplies of less pure
and less concentrated materials which will remain over for our
my?
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 277

successors when we have picked out the best. This has already
been to some extent effected for oil and it is beginning for coal;
it must eventually be done for the still less pure sources of these two
substances, for less concentrated ores, and the like.

Stone, etc_—The geologist has already done much in the investiga-
tion of the qualities of building stones, plastic substances, and the
materials for roofing and cement. To a large extent the materials
in use are satisfactory in the air and surroundings in which they
occur in nature. But the added problems of a town atmosphere,
accompanied by increased stresses in large buildings and the modern
demands of the architect and sculptor, have still to be met, if our
buildings are to be more permanent and our towns to present a less
weather-beaten aspect than they now do. New and reliable means
of testing are required, and we need a more thorough understanding
of the reactions produced by impure atmospheres and the effects
of the presence or absence of protective or destructive organisms.
Future investigation will react in the production of more satisfac-
tory preservatives, and it may lead to increased production and
adoption of artificial stones devoid of the qualities which undermine
the power of resistance of natural stones; at the same time more con-
trol over color and shaping may be obtained.

Roads.—Closely akin to the subject of building materials comes
that of stones used for flagging, paving, and metalling of roads, to
the provision and study of which the geologist has already very
largely contributed. New problems are daily introduced as road
traffic becomes heavier and as roads are required to be freer from
dust and vibration. Already many waste products have come into
valuable utilization, and a wide range of road metals which can be
called upon for these purposes exists in almost every country.

In the siting of roads, railways, and canals, however, geology
could render much more useful service than it has yet been called
upon to give. The routes that are cheapest to make are by no means
the cheapest to maintain, and the geological survey of routes would
very often suggest slight deviations which would be more econom-
ical in the end than when the shortest route compatible with the
gradients is taken.

The princes of road makers in the old world, the Romans, were
perhaps too heroic in their dealings with gradients, but they exer-
cised quite remarkable skill in choosing such directions as to secure
the least formidable slopes consistent with the general design of
their routes. Their roads were, however, constructed primarily for
strategic purposes and secondarily for transport, and it was neces-
sary to sacrifice something. On the other hand, the constructors of

76041—26——19
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

the coach roads were, perhaps, too sensitive to the psychology of
their horses and the limitations of their vehicles, and their roads are
not ideal for present-day traffic. Some compromise seems to be
required between the two methods, and not the method of the
Romans tempered by the cuttings and tunnels of the railway engi-
neer. Now that we have a vehicle that rejoices in a hill, whether
for or against it, and for the first time have a means for hill climbing
at speed, it is a pity to flatten down gradients too much; and though
it is legitimate and even necessary to remove dangerous crossings and
curves, it should be remembered that an everlasting straight vista
is as exasperating to a driver as it is heartbreaking to a horse. And
if roads of this most desirable type are to be satisfactorily and
cheaply maintained, it will be more than ever necessary to study
routes in relation to the rocks that are traversed and the water
contained in them.

Something of what has been said with reference to roads applies
with equal force to other engineering undertakings, railways, and
canals, harbor-works, bridges, and large and heavy buildings, par-
ticularly those intended to stand for centuries. The general success
of such works is ample testimony to the knowledge and skill ex-
pended upon them by engineers and architects, as well as to the
elastic toleration of sites so heavily taxed; and one is tempted to
believe that a much larger amount of study has been given to
geological questions in these cases than is usually admitted.

Water—Of all engineering questions, that most closely involved
with geological science is probably water supply. So far as under-
ground water is concerned, geologists and engineers working to-
gether have amassed a volume of fact and principle which has not
yet been completely codified and rendered accessible. An unex-
pectedly large proportion of the available rainfall has in many
instances been obtained by successful drilling, in spite of the com-
plication of the question by surface pollution, and in the face of
many legal inanities and much charlatanry. And the extension of
these methods to arid regions, as in Australia and north Africa, has
brought under cultivation large areas which needed nothing but the
“striking of the rock by the rod” of the driller to make new oases
in the desert, and thus render available some of the richest soils in
the world.

Much the same is true of overground supplies, which have been
a blessing not merely to the towns and lands supplied, but to the
rivers and drainage basins regularized and protected in large
measure from ever-recurrent floods and the damage consequent upon
them. Although in such works geological conditions are often taken

GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 279

into full account, an elaborate geological survey at a very early
stage would in most cases more than pay its way. Such a survey
would not only give a good preliminary idea of the nature and
tectonics of the rocks underlying sites of dams and reservoirs, but it
would save its cost in limiting the number and in giving rational
direction to the inevitable pits which must be sunk, by restricting
them to the elucidation of points which the surface mapping leaves
obscure. It would at the same time direct attention to the innumer-
able pitfalls which sites often present and would generally provide
on the spot much of the requisite material for construction.

It is an arguable question whether the expenditure of such vast
sums as have been devoted to the supply of large towns is entirely
justified. The provision of a single supply, of which large quantities
are used for drinking, cooking, and industrial purposes, necessitates
that the water shall be of immaculate purity, and this pure sub-
stance, the purest of all the things we consume, is employed—may
we not say wasted—for flushing, washing, and a host of other
purposes for which a less pure water would suffice. Surely the time
has come when people could be educated up to the use of a dual
supply, and this should be a commercial possibility where the area
served and quantity used are really large. The experience of London
has shown the very high cost of a single supply to all consumers and
for all purposes, and the limits of future supply are almost in sight.
It seems to be time that the problems of a dual service should engage
serious attention.

Power—Owing to the configuration and rainfall of the British
Isles, and their congested population, we are apt to think of water
questions in terms of supply, and, though we are using a certain
amount of water for power, there is only a limited development pos-
sible. In many other parts of the Empire, however, this is becoming
a valuable asset, and nowhere more than in Canada, which is rapidly
developing its resources on a very large scale. What has been said
with reference to water supply is of equal application here, for the
physiographic conditions which bring about steep gradients accom-
panied by large bodies of water, introduce factors of denudation,
transport, and deposition by the water which call for most careful
selection of sites for reservoirs and works, if the all too frequent
disasters are to be avoided, and if the schemes are not to be ephem-
eral in duration and excessively costly in upkeep.

With sources of power other than coal and water—including that
of the tides—the geologist has little concern. But there has been
brought into service at Volterra, in Italy, a new source of power in
the high-temperature steam from fumaroles which had previously
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

been used only as a source of borax. Now the steam is being tapped
by borings adventurously carried out, and its chief heat is employed
in running great power stations, only the residual heat being given
up to the manufacture of borax. This may be but the beginning of
the application of a new and valuable source of power in which
the services of geology will be required and from which that science
stands to learn much. We are haunted by the fear that a limit
will be imposed by high temperature to deep mining, while that very
heat may provide energy as valuable as the material which would
otherwise be mined; just as we dread the gas from certain coal
seams when the gas might, if it could be exploited, give a return
equivalent to that of the coal itself.

Agriculture and Forestry—Leaving aside relations already
touched upon, the connection of geology with agriculture and forestry
is through the medium of soils and subsoils, and, though the geolo-
gist seems unsuited to deal unaided with soils, his methods are those
which the soil investigator must use; and soil surveys are now
being carried out by agriculturists working in conjunction with
geologists. This results in giving new and valuable facts and infer-
ences for the benefit of both sciences. On the geological side it is
rendering more available the facts of plant distribution, and what
has been called agronomics, which, speaking for myself, I have
always found very hard to get hold of. On the other hand, the serv-
ces of geologists are likely to be of especial value in the matter of
tranported soils, loams, loess, brick earths, drifts, gravels, and the
like, where the conditions of formation may in many cases provide a
key to their peculiarities. The same considerations apply to forestry,
and here, in addition, well-established facts, such as the successive
forest types displayed in peat bogs, may betray principles that will
be of service in practice. Questions of site, sewage-disposal, and
health are bound up with questions of water and agriculture and
need no further notice here.

Military Science.—Ilt will be readily admitted that geology has
been of conspicuous service in connection with military operations in
such ways as the siting of camps, trenches, and dug-outs; while the
minute study of the water table in northern France during the late
war was not only of value in obtaining water supplies but was of
conspicuous utility in mining and countermining, in which exact and
detailed knowledge was successfully pitted against a knowledge
which was “just there or thereabouts.”

The “eye for a country,” the visualizing of features plotted on
maps and making the utmost use of them, qualities on which good
strategy is founded, are the same qualities which are essential to
a competent geological surveyor; and I can not help thinking that
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 281

strategic ability would reap as much advantage from a knowledge
of the underlying canons of topographic relief as the geologist
would from a study of the principles of military topography. It
was a wise scheme to train the British home and overseas armies
on ground similar in kind and in relief to that on which they were
about to fight in France; but it should have been realized that
physical causes and the resultant topographical relief differ in
essential particulars in temperate and tropical climates.

INTELLECTUAL SERVICE

Innumerable as are the services which th* science of geology
has rendered to man on the material side, these are at least equalled,
if not outweighed, by those rendered on the intellectual side, either
in the direct application of its principles to the life of mankind, or
in the aid given to other sciences and the confidence engendered in
such of their conclusions as can be tested in the light of geological
history.

Throughout most of its range and in its more special directions,
geology, like zoology and botany, is mainly an observational science.
Multitudes of facts have to be observed and grouped, and as much
skill is required in selecting from them the more significant and
decisive as in collecting them. Experiment for the most part is of
service in the criticism and verification of tentative theories; and, on
the physical and apphed sides more especially, it is becoming of
great value. But the process of examination in chief, and the cross-
examination in the field by a highly qualified and fully trained
observer, are so exhaustive that not very much is left to submit for
checking to the experimenter.

Even more than either of these two sciences is geology an open-
air science and one which calls for and imparts a love of nature that
can not but deepen as knowledge increases. Its most interesting
work lies as a rule in the districts most attractive for other reasons.
In the course of geological work the country must be thoroughly
traversed, and, when possible, should be seen again and again, in
all lights, under all aspects, and at all times and _ seasons.
Hypotheses grow but slowly, and call for constant checking or
verification in the field, the gradually growing ideas being an in-
tensive spur in the collection of new facts or the reobservation of old
ones, and in the comparison with like or unlike cases published or
unpublished. But, as they grow, hypotheses give to their framer
a power of prediction, more precise as the hypothesis is better
founded; and one of the most fascinating parts of his work is the
testing out of such predictions and the making of crucial observa-
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tions thus needed and inspired. It is for these reasons principally
that geology has earned its reputation as a fighting science. It
is hard to decide just exactly when evidence amounts to absolute
proof; and different observers, having reached varying stages in
the completeness of their observations, may be led by the sum of
them to different explanatory theories; or in the sphere of their own
work they may be specially influenced by facts current there.

This seems to be the place to enter a protest against dominant
ideas with regard to education and training in geology. The
tendency in early education has been to squeeze out other sciences
in favor of those that are called fundamental, and to suppose that,
because it makes use of most other sciences, training in geology
ought not to be begun until all others have been mastered. This
is to go counter to the history of the science itself. Its leading
methods were evolved in the early days of physics and chemistry
and by men often ignorant even of such principles as were then
understood. As geology has grown it has given to these sciences
many problems for solution in return for the solutions received,
problems which would have long waited for attention had not their
geological application been urgent. Further, as the solution of his
problems requires not only a very extensive knowledge, but a work-
manlike ability to apply both methods and principles, it is difficult
to say at what stage even the most competent scientific man, if he is
ultimately to deal with all his problems himself, can be ready to
begin the study of geology.

Meantime, qualities of far higher value to a geologist, which in
most cases can only be acquired young, are being lost, such as
the habit of close observation, the aptitude to distinguish minute
resemblances and differences, and the faculty of judging tendencies,
together with the instinct and patience to make collections. These
propensities come very early and speedily become blunted if not
exercised. I would advocate, with all the earnestness of an old
teacher, that some form of earth-knowledge involving observation
of facts and collection of specimens, and the drawing of inferences
from them, should find a place in schools and be encouraged at
the universities side by side with the fundamental sciences. Such
studies will not possess the meticulous exactitude of the others,
but in this respect their tendency may be corrected by them. They
will, however, bring the student into contact with realities, things
as they are, instead of inaccessible, abstract conceptions, things
beyond experience—such as pure substances, or forces acting in
the absence of friction. They will give him the thrill of discovery
and explanation, teach him that the end of science is to extract
law and principle from observation and experiment, and, instead

GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 283

of keeping him along rigid lines to an assured and preobtained
solution, will give him a choice of approach and accustom him to
frame and test hypotheses which to him at any rate will be new
and his own. Further, they will do much to teach him his own
shortcomings and give him a keen incentive to acquire the very
sciences which in themselves may be dull or even repulsive until he
has convinced himself of their utility and necessity to his own work.

While acknowledging indebtedness to those sciences which have
so generously contributed their results to geology, we feel that we
have some ground for complaint that at times their votaries have
not resisted the temptation to drop bombs which have exploded in
our midst and produced a certain amount of trepidation and some-
times legitimate indignation. We consider that it is up to those
who feel compelled to do this to acquire some knowledge of geological
principles and of the lines of reasoning on which they are founded.
They should recognize that a pyramid is difficult to upset, because
in the process of building it the materials and structure have been
carefully selected and tested by the builders. To be told after
a century’s search and reasoning that we must take our time bill
and “sit down quickly and write ” off 80, or it may be 90, per cent
of it, ought not to have disturbed us as much as it did, not more
indeed than now does the permission of the representatives of the
same science to multiply our original time bill, if we like, by 10
or 20, or even more, so far as their present state of knowledge
extends. Our answer is that we have not done the one and have
no desire to do the other, so far as the sedimentary rocks at present
known to us are concerned.

The geologist, however, should be, and is, the last to deprecate
the application of the highest and newest conclusions of physical
and chemical science to his own problems and to the criticism of
his solutions of them, for it is certain that this will always result
in doing much to reduce many of the barriers which retard his
advance. For this reason we must welcome even so fantastic a
hypothesis as that of Wegener, for the problem of the overthrust
“nappes” of mountain regions is one of our greatest difficulties,
and all explanations hitherto proposed are so hopelessly inadequate
that we have sometimes felt compelled to doubt whether the facts
really are as stated.

But the phenomena have now been observed so carefully and in so
many different districts that any real doubt as to the facts is out of
the question, and we must still look for some adequate method by
which the overthrusting could have been brought about. And if
dozens of square miles of ground have been shifted over their founda-
tions and away from their roots for many linear miles in the course
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

of a single geological Period, who shall say what might not be ac-
complished in the course of Eras?

Important consequences flow from the fact that the goal and ex-
pression of most geological research is the construction of a map of
ihe area studied. To the layman who studies a country with a geo-
logical map in hand, it is hard to resist the conclusion that the map
is merely fanciful; he can see no evidence for the lines laid down or
the symbols employed, and he is astonished when trenching or drill-
ing proves their correctness at any particular point. It is difficult
for him to see or to realize the cumulative force of the aggrecation
of minute pieces of evidence, slight differences in slope or soil, varia-
tions in quality, quantity, or luxuriance of vegetation, variations in
dryness or moisture, the distribution of culture, the extension into
the area of some underlying tectonic plan—the laws of which may
have been worked out elsewhere—and the thousand-and-one consider-
ations which go to make up the mind of the geologist.

It is, of course, perfectly true that the individuality of the surveyor
enters not a little into the extrapolation of geological lines, beyond
the points where direct observation of the rocks is possible. So much
is this the case, that it is feasible, from the inspection of his map, to
gauge, not only the geological competence, experience, and attain-
ments of the surveyor, but his knowledge and grasp of physiographic
form, his power to see into intricate solid geometry, his artistic skill
of hand and eye, and, above all, that indefinable quality his “eye for
a country ” on which so very much depends.

The construction of a map has the further advantage that it grows
by the alternation of periods of observation in the field with periods
devoted to the thinking out of structure after each day’s work and
in the intervals between successive visits to the field, so that with
every return to the ground, the facts may be reobserved and lines
retested in the light of growing knowledge. It is true that ideal
observation should be so complete and exact that reobservation has
nothing to teach; but, as a matter of fact, with a map as with a book,
what one takes from it is what one brings to it, clarified, improved,
and extended. There should be allowed to professional geological
surveyors as much elasticity as possible, so that, in addition to de-
tailed and exhaustive primary survey, there may be frequent revision
in the hight of their own work and that of their neighbors. In this
respect the hand-colored form in which geological maps were origi-
nally published. has an advantage over the newer, cheaper, and more
consistent color-printed maps.

Geologists should give a cordial welcome to the new aid provided
by aerial survey and photography. This provides the last point of
view of their areas, which has been hitherto denied, though they
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 285

have been in the habit of making use of the only substitute open to
them, prospecting and photographing from the highest points ac-
cessible. Many unexpected results have thus been secured in arche-
ology, and at least as much may be looked for in geological surveys
even in settled and surveyed districts, while in unsurveyed and un-
prospected regions its use is proving of the highest importance.
Too much credit can not be given to Canada for its enterprise in
using this method for the prospecting and preliminary survey of the
animal, vegetable, and mineral resources of its great hinterland by
means of the airplane. <A great saving in time and cost has thus
been secured, and the method bids fair to remove the reproach lev-
eled at the British Empire that such vast areas of it are practically
unknown.

Physiography and Geography.—tlt is because of the variety and
intensity of observation essential to geological surveying—in the
course of which every acre of his ground must be traversed, and
much of it retraversed—that the geologist must necessarily become a
physiographer and geographer. There is a limit to the perfection
of topographic maps and surveys, even when, as in the United States,
there is close cooperation between the Topographic and the Geologi-
cal Surveys; and it is the duty of the geologist to take note of in-
numerable features which have no delineation, still less explanation,
on such maps. The geologist is probably the only class of person
who has to traverse large areas with his eyes open, not to one class of
phenomena only, but to all that can help him to decide questions of
concealed structure; and he naturally seeks to supplement this by
personal contact with the inhabitants, and with their written and un-
written records, which it is part of his business to interpret and ex-
plain. Nor can he confine himself to the purely physiographic as-
pect of his area. He is led into bypaths as a byplay, and many facts
with regard to the distribution of animals and plants, and of the
dwellings, occupations, and characteristics of the people, can scarcely
escape his observation; neither can he shut his eyes to historic and
prehistoric facts. Thus, when a geologist leaves his district, he is
generally possessed of a store of knowledge reaching far beyond the
strict bounds of his science.

While geologists, from the conditions under which they work,
have been able personally to make individual contributions to these
sciences, the most important service of geology as a whole has been
the transformation of geography from a static into a dynamic sci-
ence. In its earlier stages, geology discovered that progress involved
the close study of the earth of the present and the application of
that knowledge to explain its past changes; and the progress of ge-
ology has only intensified both the need of deeper study and the
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

fuller application of it. To-day it is essential for geographers to be
perfectly familiar with the past history of the earth in order that
they may be able to explain the phenomena of the present.

The question may be summed up by saying that geology has be-
come a physiological study of the earth as an organism with a life
all its own. We can watch the geographical changes through which
the earth has passed, revealed as they are in the nature and distribu-
tion of rocks and fossils. We can even discover the dry land—the
actual landscape and physiographic relief itself—preserved in a
fossil state, and judge from it the climates then prevailing and their
distribution in distinct epochs. We can form some idea of the modes
of origin and dates of appearance of continents and mountain chains,
and other leading features of the relief of the crust. We are learning
to read the evidence given by the interactions of igneous and aque-
ous rocks as tothe nature of the stresses by which the structure of the
crust itself has been moulded. There are, it is true, many gaps in our
knowledge, but their very existence is of value in quickening and
directing research in order that our history may become as full as
it can possibly be made. Each advance upon the technical side of the
subject, the pursuit of detailed zonal stratigraphy, the application of
the miscroscope in so many new directions, and the broadening of
the area of study, all react sooner or later in improving, refining,
and extending our knowledge of earth history. They combine with
the evidence of paleontology to convince us that this earth of ours is
still young, active, and full of life, and that any process of “ running
down” is constantly being held by self-acting checks which are put-
ting forward to vastly distant ages “ all prospect of an end.”

Biological sciences —While astronomy has given us the conception
of illimitable space, it has done much to destroy what has been
called the anthropomorphic view of creation. Geology, on the other
hand has endowed us with an almost limitless conception of time, but
it has done something to rehabilitate the importance of man as the
highest product yet reached in the long history of the earth.

This it has done in the main through the intense reality that it has
given to the conception of evolution. Although several authors, and
two in particular, have pointed out that such a conception could not
have been formed without the postulates of time and continuity of
existence contributed by geology, it is hardly realized how much
geological labor on the life of the earth, and on life on the earth, as
summed up by Lyell and grouped and presented by him in his great
work on “The Principles of Geology,” was necessary to give to
evolution a concrete and cogent application. The function of this
labor could hardly be better indicated than by the position of geology
as displayed in Lyell’s earlier editions. The modern reader of them
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 287

is continually haunted by the feeling that the author was struggling
for a single missing generalization which he failed to find; and
although, in almost every branch of the subject treated, Lyell leads
up again and again to the missing conception, and though the facts
and inferences which he marshalled can now be seen to be marching
on this great idea, he never quite succeeded in attaining it for him-
self. It was left for Darwin, than whom no one was more conscious
of what he owed to Lyell, to see that the facts must rest on some great
single fundamental principle, to realize that this principle was evolu-
tion, and to apply it to his own branch, the development of life.

Lyell had proved that the long history of the earth as recorded
in the rocks revealed the operation of causes, small in relation to
the earth as a whole, but persistent, the majority of them still in
action. It was a further debt to Lyell that Darwin should bring in
the continuous operation of small causes as the machinery operating
and guiding the evolution of life.

But though the work of geologists, as summed up by Lyell, pro-
vided the starting point for the conception of organic evolution, it
did not stop here. The idea of Uniformitarianism in which that
work culminated was meant as a reaction against the fantastic opera-
tions postulated by the Catastrophists, and was never intended to
imply that these causes in the past were always balanced or distrib-
uted as they are now. There was in Lyell’s statements nothing to
indicate that denudation or earth movement might not have been
more active at periods of the past, that organic change might not
accelerate or slow down, that there might not be variations in the
trends of continental or oceanic development resulting in climatal
and other changes, or that the very sources and intensities of energy
from outside or inside the earth might not seriously vary. Only,
warrant must be found for all such suppositions with regard to the
earth of the past from fuller study of the earth of the present. And
if we recognize the inner spirit which inspired the eloquent words
of Lyell, when he had grasped that Darwin had supplied the one
missing idea, we can not fail to see that his Uniformitarianism in-
cluded evolution-as one of the “existing causes” to be taken into
consideration.

The physiology of the earth, however, is that of a very complex
organism, and we are sure that we do not yet know all the forces
internal and external acting upon it, still less their relative value and
intensity, their distribution and variation in the past, or the precise
records which each is capable of imprinting on the rocks of the earth-
crust. But it is becoming clearer that there has been a periodicity in
the stages of development of the earth crust, and that on these great
pulses of earth life there have been imposed innumerable waves of
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

smaller cycles; and that, on account of their interference with, or
reinforcement of, one another, the simpler type of cyclic repetition
which might have been looked for in the history is masked and
broken and diversified by actual happenings of an infinite variety.

Van Hise more than once complained of the tendency of geologists
to adhere to single explanations of events, and advocated the neces-
sity of considering the cooperation of many causes; and it may well
be that in many outstanding problems such as past glacial or tropi-
cal periods, coral reefs, stages of earth movement, progression and
regression of the oceans, we may find the ultimate explanation in the
interaction of a number of ‘true causes.”

EVOLUTION

During the long period of time comprised in the history from the
Cambrian period onwards, the slow and persistent evolution of
plant and animal life went forward and left ample record in the
rocks. To warrant a belief in organic evolution, we are no longer
solely dependent on reasoning founded on existing organisms or on
the facts of their ontogeny and distribution. As M. Marcellin Boule
says in his work on Fossil Man, “* * * pour tout ce qui a trait
i Vévolution des étres organisés en général, le dernier mot doit rester
ila Paléontologie quand cette science est en measure de parler claire-
ment. Les plus fins travaux anatomiques, les comparaisons les plus
approfondies, les raisonnements les plus ingénieux sur la morpholo-
eie des étres actuels ne sauraient avoir la valeur démonstrative des
documents tirés de la roche ott ils sont enfouis et disposés dans leur
ordre chronologique méme.”? Although we are only too painfully
aware of the innumerable chances that conspire to prevent an animal
or plant from securing immortality by preservation as a fossil, the
finding of better preserved material, the more skillful preparation
of it for examination, and the application to it of refined biological
methods, such as careful dissection and the serial sections of Profes-
sor Sollas, are giving us more complete and accurate knowledge than
ever before. It may now be confidently stated that many of the
most crucial links in the chain of evolving life are in our hands;
that they actually lived in the past, and that their fossil forms show
their relationship to their predecessors and successors. The time has
come when Darwin’s famous chapter on the “ Imperfection of the
Geological Record,’ an apology written with the most balanced
criticism and unbiased judgment, should be rewritten and revised.

It is true that we seem as far as ever from unveiling the points of
divergence of the great phyla, and we can but feel that the time from
the beginning of the Cambrian period onward is but a small part of

*Marcellin Boule, Les Hommes Fossiles, 1928, p. 453
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 289

the whole history of life on the earth. As with antiquarian research,
each new discovery in geology, whether on the physical or the bio-
logical side, only brings these distant ages more fully into view and
emphasizes their modernity and their likeness to our own time.
Hutton’s famous dictum that he saw “no vestige of a beginning,
no prospect of an end,” is to-day more true than ever, when we
regard the evidence of stratified rocks. But we know enough to
convince us that within post-Cambrian time evolution has steadily
proceeded from general to special, from simple to complex, from
lower to higher efficiency.

In almost every subdivision of the animal kingdom, and in not
a few branches of the vegetable kingdom, lines of descent and
directions of specialization have been made out, sometimes visibly
operating throughout whole Systems, but more usually through
smaller divisions of the record; and this in the former kingdom
not only among vertebrates but among the invertebrates and even
their lower subkingdoms. It may even be stated that in methods
of defense, in food procuring, in the attainment of favorable posi-
tions and attitudes, something very closely imitating what would be
expected on the doctrine of the origin of species by “survival of the
fittest ” has again and again occurred.

The essence of evolution is unbreken sequence, and when we con-
sider the extraordinary delicacy of the adjustment of life to its
physical and organic environment, the mutual interdependence of
life forms, and the necessity to them of such factors as favorable
range of temperature, food, climatic conditions, soil, and the con-
tinuity of the “element” in or on which they live, it is most won-
derful that in the vast lapse of post-Archaean time it has been
possible for life to exist continuously and continually to evolve,
throughout those long ages. And this in spite of the fact that,
although the main chain has been unbroken, conditions have, in
many cases, been so unfavorable that whole groups have flourished
and died out, while others have become so attenuated that only a
few survivors have been left, highly restricted in distribution, to
burgeon out again when the unfavorable conditions were removed,
or in other places where conditions have again become more favor-
able to them.

That life has survived continuously in spite of the vicissitudes
through which it has been compelled to pass, and the frequent con-
vergence upon it of unfavorable conditions, may well be taken to
heart by those who fear that civilization will be brought to an end
by the misuse of the powers that itself has evolved. They may
surely take courage and trust that the remedy for these evils will
come, as it has in innumerable other cases, not from conventions
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

and understandings that, as all history shows, will be mere scraps
of paper, but from the intensive application to them of the very
science which has evolved them.

Although the geological record is, and possibly will always remain,
incomplete, it has yet proved remarkably representative, and cer-
tain outstanding facts have been made out which are sufficient to
show that the lines of organic evolution as recorded in geology are
in accordance with what is theoretically probable, and with those
taken by the evolution of domesticated organisms and by human arts
and inventions.

1. There can be no doubt that the stages of organic evolution
are correlated with and were actuated by the stages in the inorganic
evolution of the earth itself. That climatic change was effective
in inducing migration, and thus in sharpening the struggle for
existence against both enemy organisms and changed physical en-
vironment; that extension and restriction of land and water areas
in some cases brought about keener and more varied competition,
change of habit or food, and in others the destruction of potential
enemies and the securing of the advantages of a fair field for the
survivors; and that activity of the earth-crust in such things as
deposition and mountain building provided conditions for the exist-
ence of an increased range of varieties and the consequent struggle
between them: If we are not allowed to say that this brought about
the survival of the fit, it at least caused the destruction of the unfit.

2. It may be stated as a biological law that every locality becomes
“full” of life, forms arriving or evolving to take advantage of the
special facilities offered. In consequence, resistance to the incur-
sion of new forms, even if they are exceptionally equipped, is very
great, and it is only occasionally that such new forms can make
good their immigration. There are, of course, marked exceptions,
but these generally occur when degeneration or overgrowth in size
accompanied by neglect of means of defense have occurred, or when
an area has been for so long sheltered from the wider and more
general course of evolution that it has fallen seriously behindhand
in the race.

The geological record gives indirect evidence of the same “ filling ”
of areas in the past in the extraordinary slowness with which
advanced types that have eventually made great headway estab-
(ished themselves after their introduction; the earliest fishes, rep.
tiles, and mammals are cases in point. Imperfect as the first mem-
bers of these groups undoubtedly were, they must, even shortly
after their introduction, have possessed considerable advantages
over the older and established forms with which they found them-
selves in competition. In size and strength they were doubtless
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 291

inferior, and probably they must have taken long periods to make
good their advantage. But in all such cases the new forms went for
a long period into “retreat,” and, in face of the apparent slowness
of their evolution and the bitter competition to which they were
subjected, it is remarkable that they overpassed the troubles of
racial youth, and eventually took the place to which they were
entitled in the scheme of life. It seems justifiable to believe that
there must have been at least some well-equipped types which did
not survive competition in these early stages, but went under with
all their promise of future success. We can easily imagine that
the survival of such, had it occurred, may have altered the whole
course of evolution and produced a life-story very different from
that we know to-day, and of which we ourselves form no small
part.

3. Not less remarkable than the period of “retreat” is that of
booming development which at last came to each successful modifica-
tion. In this connection we can instance the “pleine évolution”
of the graptolites, the euechinoids, ammonoids, and belemnoids,
the fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, each in its own time.
Each slowly but surely built up its supremacy, and then wantoned
through long ages as the lord of creation in its own element and
in its own day. Both the period of sanctuary and the subsequent
boom can be closely paralleled by the case of many human inven-
tions and in the occupations and history of mankind.

4. But while there are outstanding cases in which a line of ad-
vance is taken that is capable of successive improvements and leads
on to continuous success, there are many other instances in which
the line of advance, though temporarily advantageous, has only been
carried through a limited number of stages, and eventually failed
either by its inherent inadequacy or by imposing so heavy a burden
on the economy of the organism that it was unable to bear the cost.

The only instance I need quote, though there are many others,
is the use of defensive armor, spines, plates, hooks, horns, ete.
These provide an obvious method of resistance to attack, and this
defensive attitude has been practised by one group of organisms
after another, but always with the same disastrous result, the im-
position of a fatal strain on the organism to meet renewed, perfected,
and more vigorous attack. The spinose graptolites and trilobites,
the armored fishes and reptiles, are cases in point, and in the last
of these instances, at least, victory rested with tne acquirement os
swiftness in movement, accompanied by increasing power of attack
such as is given by the development of teeth or claws or both.
Again and again in the Tertiary Era one group of mammals after
another, before, or more usually after, the attainment of great size,
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

has taken to some means of sedentary defense, and in every case
the cost of upkeep has been too great and the group has gone under.
Every time the race has been to the swift, active, and strong, and
those that trusted in “ passive resistance,” in “defence and not de-
fiance,” have gone under in competition with those that have been
prepared to face the risks involved in attack. The fact that turtles
and armadillos have survived to the present indorses rather than
vitiates the principle.

Other cases of rapid decline or sudden disappearance are more
difficult to account for. The waning of the brachiopods, but not
yet their disappearance, the disappearance of the pteridosperms, the
rugose corals, the belemnoids and ammonoids synchronizing with
the vanishing of many orders of reptiles, will long furnish subjects
for research by biologists and geologists.

And it may well be that the explanation will often be along
biological rather than physical lines, such as those suggested for the
graptolites; Lapworth pointed out that their disappearance—in
spite of a brave effort of passive resistance—synchronized with the
great development of fishes, and the assumption by them of many
of the functions previously discharged by the trilobites. In other
cases the explanation may be more in the direction of that given for
the reptiles, to be referred to later.

The rarity in the geological record of some of the stages in evolu-
tion, and the absence of others which must surely have existed, may
receive some explanation from what has frequently occurred in the
history of human invention. If variants arise and are subjected to
intense competition, they have no chance in the struggle for exist-
ence unless they show rapid improvement and development of the
favorable variations within a few generations. Hence the numbers
exhibiting each of the early stages of change will always be few and
the chances of their preservation slight. Those who have tried to
work out the stages in the history of an invention, for instance, will
appreciate the rarity of “ missing links ” and the difficulty of filling
in every step toward the later perfection. These are looked upon as
“freaks” and, unless they present real and marked improvement,
are never. manufactured on a large scale. ‘Their numbers conse-
quently are few, and many of them are the victims of experiment
and often do not survive the experience.

5. Perhaps the most wonderful result disclosed by a study of the
later part of the geological record is the steady and unbroken evo-
lution of brain from the earliest vertebrate animals to the present.
The exceeding slowness of the process in its early stages is not less
wonderful than its acceleration during the latest stages of geological
history. The disappearance of so many orders of reptiles at the end
GEOLOGY 1N SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 293

of the Mesozoic period, at the close of a long and most promising
chain of evolution, indicates that there was some inherent weakness
underlying the line of evolution entered upon by them, which pro-
ceeded so far and favorably that it was impossible to retrace the
path. This may well have been connected with the substance or con-
struction of brain and nerve. If so, this side of evolution has to be
seriously reckoned with, and it may be that the fundamental weak- .
ness of physical as opposed to intellectual evolution brought this
flourishing and well-developed group to its end.

It has, of course been suggested by Searles V. Wood, jr.,* and
others that the destruction of Mesozoic life types was brought about
by physical changes; but, apart from the fact that the particular
changes supposed by the former did not as a matter of fact occur,
the entire explanation provides a cause utterly insuflicient in com-
parison with the potency of organic struggle against creatures better
endowed with warm blood, adequate brain substance, and the ac-
tivity and enterprise springing therefrom.

In spite of the evidence of acceleration as the higher ranks of
animals are reached, and in spite of the extraordinary efficiency of
the human brain and all the benefits to the organism it brings about,
we may well be appalled by the aeons which have been used up and
the millions of varieties which have passed away in the production
of this, the most efficient scientific apparatus yet invented or evolved.

6. But if it has taken long ages to evolve an animal capable of
a broader geographical distribution than any other, with a consti-
tution capable of withstanding the widest ranges of heat and cold,
and of peopling the world from its tropical deserts to its polar
wastes; and to endow him with a brain by virtue of which he has
made himself master of the earth and all its living inhabitants; it
has taken no less time for the evolution of the many factors without
which his present success would have been impossible. To pick out
a single instance, probably few things in the whole story of life have
been more fruitful in effect than the appearance of the grasses in late
Kocene times, followed by their rapid evolution and spread in the
Oligocene and under the direction of the critical events of the
Miocene period. Starkie Gardner, in an admirable paper, first
drew attention to the vital importance to the animal evolution of
the world in general, and to the welfare of man in particular, of this
step forward. It was followed by great changes in the insect world,
by the rapid production of herbivorous mammals endowed with
speed, great migratory powers, special dental and other anatomical

5 Phil. Mag., Vol. XXIII, 1862.
76041—26 20

994 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

adjustment to the new foods, and the institution in their herds of a
discipline, subordination, and leadership which are almost tribal.
These last qualities were rendered doubly necessary by the consequent
rapid development of carnivora, and the need for scrapping passive
and even active means of defense in order to secure the power, speed,
and reserve necessary to follow their food harvests over great
stretches of country. At the same time the habits and instincts thus
brought about were those which man, by domestication, has been able
io turn to his own ends. Thus at a blow, as the outcome of this stage
of Tertiary evolution, there became available for mankind not only
his chief plant food and drink, his luxuries as well as his necessaries,
but his chief animal foods, together with his aid from the speed,
strength, service, and endurance of the animals which he domesti-
cated, and to which he assumed the position of leader of the herd. °

But while with the aid just described it was possible for mankind
to progress far on the road of civilization, progress would have been
stopped, and as a matter of fact was seriously retarded, until the
discovery and utilization of the solar energy stored up in the earth’s
crust during the Carboniferous and subsequent Periods in the form
ot coal and other fossil fuels. The very exceptional conditions, cli-
matal, geographical, and botanical, requisite for coal formation, oc-
curred all too seldom in geological history, but it has so happened
that few areas of the earth are devoid of coal belonging to one Period
or another; and the shaping of kingdoms and dominions has been
such as to include supphes of fuel in most of them.

Whatever may be the main sources of energy in the future, radiant,
intratelluric, hydraulic, tidal, atomic, we have been Jargely depend-
ent in the past, and probably shall continue to depend for many
years to come, on that portion of the solar energy stored up by
vegetation, and especially on that preserved in the earth crust in
the form of coal.

But again civilization must have been greatly hampered or driven
into a different course but for the agencies which have sorted out
from the medley of materials of which the earth is composed, simple
compounds or aggregates of compounds, or in rarer cases simple
elements, in such a form that they are available for human use
without the expenditure on them of excessive quantities of energy.
The concentration of metalliferous ores, salines, and the host of
other mineral resources has made perhaps the most important con-
tribution of all to the latest stage—in good and evil—attained by
civilization.

Finally, doubt may be expressed whether man could have attained
his present position if he had not made his appearance compara-
tively soon after a period of intense earth activity, when broad areas
GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN—WATTS 295

of newly raised sediment were available for occupation, when the
avents of denudation and renewal were in vigorous operation, and
when a wave of rapid organic evolution was active. And a con-
jecture may be permitted that human evolution itself was probably
hastened by the latest climatal severity through which the earth
passed, the effects of which are only slowly passing away.

Much of what has just been said may revive recollection of an
old Swiss guide book which praised the beneficence of Providence
in directing the dreaded avalanches “into the desolate and unin-
habited valley of the Trumleten Thal and in sheltering from them
the beautiful, fertile, and inhabited valley of Lauterbrunnen.”
However, it is far from my intention to imply that “ everything is
for the best in this best of all possible worlds,” but only to point
cut in reviewing the long chain of events of which we see the
present end-product in civilized man, that within the ken of the
geologist there have been many critical stages in the earth’s history
when any marked change in the conditions which then prevailed
must inevitably have reacted profoundly upon the development of
the human race when at long last it stepped out from the lower
ranks to take the earth as its rightful possession.

CONCLUSION

A review of the history and present position of geology shows
that its better-known services to mankind have been in relation to
the foundations on which industrial development and modern civili-
zation have been built—the mineral resources of the earth. These
are many and various, all of them explored by geological methods.
In every application of them we are again brought back to the
primal essentials—water, iron, and fuel—and it is in the discovery
and exploitation of these that the services of geology have been of
especial value.

But in the course of the development of both the economic and
the scientific sides of geology the principles discovered and elabo-
rated have fertilized and enriched human thought as expressed,
not only in other sciences but also in the sphere of literature. As
it has become more precise and is able to give a more accurate and
detailed picture of the stages through which the earth passed dur-
ing the long story unfolded by the study of the stratified rocks, it
has shown that the earth, though only a minute fraction of the
visible universe, has had a wonderful and individual: history of its
own. The keynote of this history is evolution, the dream of phi-
losophers from the earliest times, now passed from the realm of
hypothesis into that of established theory.

296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

We are able to watch the evolution of the oceans and continents,
of the distribution of landscape and climates, and of the long
succession of living beings on the earth, throughout many millions
of years. During these ages we see the action of the same chemical
and physical laws as are now in operation, modified perhaps in
scale or scope, producing geographical and biological results com-
parable with those of to-day. Hutton and Lyell discovered for
us in the present a key to unlock the secrets of the past; the history
thus revealed illuminates and explains many of the phenomena of
the present.

And the outcome of it all is to endow man with a simple and
worthy conception of the story of creation, and to fill him with
reverence for the wondrous scheme .which, unrolling through the
ages, without haste, without rest, has prepared the world on man’s
dominion and made him fit and able to occupy it.

I desire to express my thanks to Mr. G. W. Lamplugh, Professor
E. W. MacBride, Professor W. G. Fearnsides, and Mr. G. S. Sweet-
ing for kind assistance in the preparation of this address.
THE YEASTS: A CHAPTER IN MICROSCOPICAL
SCIENCE?

By A. CHASTON CHAPMAN, F. R. S., F. I. C., F. C. S., P. R. M.S.

The subject on which I have the honor to address you this evening
is intimately connected with phenomena in which mankind has
taken a very deep interest from time immemorial.

It is not my intention to deal with the antiquity of alcoholic
fermentation, except just to say that references to the use of fer-
mented beverages by ancient peoples, such as the Chinese and Egyp-
tians, chiefly in connection with religious and ceremonial observances,
appear to date back more than 4,000 years, and in the Vedic books—
the oldest literary monuments of the Indo-European races—there
are many references to intoxicating beverages.

The word “ fermentation,” from fervere, to boil or seethe, was
at first applied to all cases of chemical change whose cause was
unknown, and which were accompanied by the formation of large
quantities of gas, giving the liquid the appearance of boiling or
seething. In its widest sense the word is still occasionally applied
to a number of chemical processes in which micro-organisms are
the active agents, such, for example, as the souring of milk, the
conversion of alcohol into vinegar, the production of butyric acid,
and similar processes. In its restricted sense, however, and in the
sense in which I shall use it this evening, it is applied to the con-
version of sugar into (mainly) alcohol and carbon dioxide gas by
means of the organism known as yeast.

The subject of fermentation is capable of rough division into
two parts—namely, the phenomenon, that is to say, the process, and
the origin or cause of that phenomenon—yeast.

With fermentation regarded as a chemical process I do not
propose to deal, beyond referring very briefly to a few of the earlier
attempts made to explain an occurrence which was characterized
by so much that was mysterious. The word “fermentation” is
very frequently met with in writings of the alchemists from the
thirteenth to the fiftenth centuries, but it is applied to a consider-
able number of chemical processes of all descriptions, and the ideas

1Address of the President of the Royal Microscopical Society, read Jan. 21, 1925

pet ya

Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society, March, 1925.

297
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

of the writers were vague and confused in the extreme. Perhaps
the first philosophical explanations put forward were those of the
German philosopher, Stahl (1660-1734) and of the English physi-
cian, Thomas Willis, who described himself as “of Christ Church
in Oxford, and Sidley Professor of Natural Philosophy in that
famous University.” According to their view, fermentation is
considered to be an induced action—that is to say, the ferment is
a body endowed with a particular molecular motion, which motion
is, by induction, communicated to other bodies with which it may
be in contact, thus bringing about their decomposition. Thus,
Willis in his tract, “ De Fermentatione ” (1660), says: “ Fermenta-
tion is the internal motion of particles, or of the principles of a
body, either tending to the perfection of the same body, or its change
into another. * * * There are many methods by which fermen-
tation may be induced. The first, the chief one, is the adding of
a certain ferment to the body to be fermented, the particles of which
being first placed in vigour and motion, may arouse the other slug-
gish and idle particles in the mass that is to be fermented, and may
drive them into motion. * * * By this means Barm or Yest,
beaten eggs and such like, stir up a fermentation almost in every-
thing.” But in spite of the clearness of these statements, Willis,
like the other philosophers of his time, included putrefaction, the
formation of minerals in the earth, and a vast number of other
natural phenomena under the general term “ fermentation.”

The next important attempt to explain the nature of fermenta-
tion was made in 1839, when the great German chemist, Liebig,
put forward a theory which was a modification of that of Stahl
and Willis. Liebig asserted that nitrogenous matter on oxidation
underwent a change which determined the breaking up of the
molecules of fermentable matter in contact with it, and laid con-
siderable emphasis on the importance of the presence of oxygen.
This theory of contact decomposition as the result of molecular
vibration held the field for more than 30 years, but during the
latter part of its life it was vigorously attacked by Pasteur, who
was then engaged upon his epoch-making biochemical researches.
The controversy was a long and vigorous one, and in the end
Liebig modified his original views to the extent of admitting that
the fermentation process was in some way connected with the life
activity of the organism producing it, but he adhered so far to his
earlier view as to hold that this life activity was not in itself the
exciting cause, but was only necessary for the formation of some
protein like substance which actually brought about the decom-
position. This theory, which was put forward shortly before his
THE YEASTS—CHAPMAN 299

death in 1878, is of special interest in connection with the view
which is now universally held as the result of comparatively recent
observations.

I will now turn to a discussion of the nature of the investigations
which have led up to our knowledge of the character and life history
of the exciting cause of fermentation—that is to say, of the yeast
organism—and for this purpose it will be necessary for me to take
you back nearly 200 years from Liebig’s day. Although the phe-
nomena of fermentation had been a matter of common observation
for many centuries, it is obvious that no successful attempt could
have been made to arrive at a knowledge of the originating cause
until the microscope had been sufficiently developed for the purpose.
The first examination of yeast itself of which we have any record
was made by the great Dutch microscopist, Leeuwenhoek, in 1680.

At this stage, and before dealing with the actual results of
Leeuwenhoek’s observations, it may be of interest to some members
of the society if I refer in some little detail to the instruments
employed by one who may justly be regarded as one of the greatest
microscopists of all times. The following description by Martin
Folkes, published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society in the year 1723, contains much that is historically of great
interest, and something that may not be well known to all who are
present this evening.

Mr. Folkes says:

It is now above fifty years since the late Mr. Leeuwenhoek first began his
correspondence with the Royal Society, when he was recommended by Dr
Regnerus de Graaf as a person already considerable by his microscopical dis-
coveries made with glasses contrived by himself, and excelling even those of
the famous Eustachio Divini, so much talk’d of in the learned world; and as
he has ever since that time apply’d himself with the greatest diligence and
success to the same sort of observations, no doubt can be made of the excel-
lency of those instruments he so long use’d, So much improy’d, and upon the
fullest experience so often commended in his letters; great part of which at
his decease he thought fit to bequeath to this society, for whom he ever ex-
press’d the greatest esteem and respect. He had indeed intimated this design
in several of his letters, and in his last will and testament gave orders that
the glasses should be deliver’d as soon as conveniently might be after his
decease; which was accordingly done by the directions of his surviving
daughter, Mrs. Maria van Leeuwenhoek, to whose great care we are oblig’d
for the safe and speedy delivery of this very curious and valuable present.

The legacy consists of a small Indian cabinet, in the drawers of which are
thirteen little boxes or cases, each containing two microscopes handsomely fitted
up in silver, all which, not only the glasses but also the apparatus for manag-
ing of them, were made with his own hands; besides which they seem to have
been put in order in the cabinet by himself as he design’d them to be presented
to the Royal Society, each miscroscope having had an object placed before it,
and the whole being accompany’d with a register of the same in his own hand-
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

writing, as being desirous the gentlemen of the society should without trouble
be enabled to examine many of those objects on which he had made the most
considerable discoveries.

Several of these objects yet remain before the microscopes, tho’ the greater
number are broken off, which was probably done by the shaking of the boxes
in the carriage. I have nevertheless added a translation of the register, as it
may serve to give a juster idea of what Mr. Leeuwenhoek design’s by this
legacy; and also be of use, by putting any curious observer in mind of a
number of minute subjects that may in a particular manner deserve his
attention.

Then follows a list of the objects, which may conveniently be
omitted.

For the construction of these instruments it is the same in them all, and
the apparatus is very simple and convenient; they are all single microscopes
consisting each of a very small double convex glass let into a socket between
two silver plates rivetted together and pierc’d with a small hole; the object
is placed on a silver point or needle, which by means of screws of the same
metal provided for that purpose, may be turn’d about, rais’d, or depress’d, and
brought nearer or put farther from the glass as the eye of the observer, the
nature of the object, and the convenient examination of its several parts may
require.

Mr. Leeuwenhoek fix’d his objects if they were solid to this silver point
with glew; and when they were fluid or of such a nature as not to be com-
modiously view’d unless spread upon glass, he first fitted them on a little
plate of talk, or excessively thin blown glass, which he afterwards glewed to the
needle in the same manner as his other objects.

The observation indeed of the circulation of the blood, and some others,
require a somewhat different apparatus, and such a one he had, to which he
occasionally fix’d the same microscopes ; but as it makes no part of this cabinet,
IT shall omit giving any farther account of it, only taking notice that it may
be seen in a letter to the Royal Society of the 12th of January, 1689, and
printed in his Arcana naturae Detecta, No. 69. But I was willing to mention
just so much as it may serve to shew the universal use of these microscopes,
and as it induces me, among other things, to believe, these were the kind
of microscopes generally, if not solely, us’d by this curious gentleman in all
his observations, and to which we are oblig’d for his most surprizing discov-
eries.

Another particular to the same purpose, I would not omit, and that is, that
upon the late queen Mary’s doing Mr. Leeuwenhoek the honour of a visit at
Delft, and viewing his curiosities with great satisfaction, he presented her
with a couple of his microscopes, which as I have been inform’d by one who
had them a considerable time in his hands were of the same sort as these,
and did not any ways differ from one of the 13 cases contain’d in the drawers
of this cabinet.

The glasses are all exceedingly clear, and shew the object very bright and
distinct, which must be owing to the great care this gentleman took in the
choice of his glass, his exactness in giving it the true figure; and afterwards
amongst many, reserving such only for his use, as he upon tryal found to be
most excellent. Their powers of magnifying are different, as different sorts
of objects may require; and, as on the one hand, being all ground glasses,
none of them are so small, and consequently magnify to so great a degree, as
some of those drops frequently us’d in other microscopes; yet on the other, the
THE YEASTS—CHAPMAN 301

distinctness of these very much exceeds what I have met with in the glasses
of that sort; and this was what Mr. Leeuwenhoek ever principally propos’d
to himself, rejecting all those degrees of magnifying in which he could not so
well obtain that end; for he informs us in one of his letters where he is
speaking of the excessive praise some give to their glasses on this account,
that although he had-above forty years had glasses by him of an extraor-
dinary smallness, he had made but very little use of them; as having found
in a long course of experience, that the most considerable discoveries were to
be made with such glasses as magnifying but moderately, exhibited the object
with the most perfect brightness and distinction.

But however excellent these glasses may be judg’d, Mr. Leeuwenhoek’s dis-
coveries are not entirely to be imputed to their goodness only: his own great
judgment and experience in the manner of using them, together with the
continual application he gave to that business, and the indefatigable industry
with which he contemplated often and long upon the same subject viewing it
under many and different circumstances, cannot but have enabled him to
form better judgments of the nature of his objects, and see farther into their
constitution, than it can be imagined any other person can do, that neither
has the experience, nor has taken the pains this curious author had so
long done.

Nor ought we to forget a piece of skill, in which he very particularly
excell’d, which was that of preparing his objects in the best manner, to be
view'd by the microscope; and of this I am persuaded any one will be satisfied,
who shall apply himself to the examination of some of the same objects as do
yet remain before these glasses; at least, I have my self found so much
difficulty in this particular, as to observe a very sensible difference between
the appearances of the same object, when apply’d by my self, and when
prepared by Mr. Leeuwenhoek, though view’d with glasses of the very same
goodness.

I have the rather insisted upon this, as it may be a caution to us, that we
do not rashly condemn any of this gentleman’s observations, though even with
his own glasses we should not immediatély be able to verify them our selves.
We are under very great disadvantages for want of the experience he had,
and he has himself put us in mind more than once, that those who are the
best skill’d in the use of magnifying-glasses may be misled, if they give too
sudden a judgment upon what they see, or ’till they have been assured from
repeated experiments. But we have seen so many, and those of his most
surprizing discoveries, so perfectly confirm’d by great numbers of the most
curious and judicious observers, that there can surely be no reason to distrust
his accuracy in those others, which have not yet been so frequently or carefully
examin’d.

Upon the whole, it is to be hoped some of the society will pursue those
enquiries the late possessor of these microscopes was so deservedly famous for ;
and that as we have lost in Mr. Leeuwenhoek a most worthy member and a
most valuable correspondent, this last piece of his respect to the Royal Society
will not only enrich our repository but both encourage and enable some other
diligent observer to prosecute the same curious and useful discoveries.

Unhappily the microscopes bequeathed to the Royal Society by
Leeuwenhoek have ceased to enrich its repository, since, when the
society removed to its present habitation, the miscroscopes disap-
peared in a very mysterious manner, and their whereabouts—if
indeed they still exist—has not been traced, even to the present day.
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

That the Royal Society were appreciative of Leeuwenhoek’s great
services to science is shown by the fact that in 1679 a certain Mr.
Hunt was “instructed to prepare a silver box for the diploma to be
sent to Mr. Leeuwenhoek.”

In 1680 Leeuwenhoek addressed to the Royal Society a communi-
cation headed “De Fermento Cerevisiae,” in which he announced
that he had discovered that yeast consisted of small ovoid globules.
Of these, which he appeared to regard as consisting chiefly of batches
of six, he gives several excellent drawings. When we remember
the nature of the magnifying apparatus with which he had to work,
and that the average diameter of the yeast-cell is only ;4, millimeter
(sjo5 imch), it will, I think, be realized that Leeuwenhoek had
accomplished a very remarkable feat. He did not, however, push
the discovery any further, and in this position, curiously enough,
the matter remained for more than a century.

In the year 1814 Kieser, in the course of a paper by Dobereiner,
described yeast as consisting of small spherical corpuscles, but this
statement does not appear to have attracted attention, and about the
year 1837 the microscopical character of yeast was again made the
subject of investigation, and the true nature of the yeast organism
was definitely and independently discovered by three observers, Cag-
niard de Latour, Schwann, and Kiitzing. These observers recognized
that yeast is composed of a vast number of small transparent glob-
ules which reproduce by budding and which consist of a Gell wall
with granular contents. A year or two later Schwann appears also
to have observed the formation ef ascospores. These observers, and
Cagniard de Latour in especial, put forward the view that it was
owing to the vegetation of these cells that the disengagement of car-
bon dioxide gas and the formation of alcohol were due. The re-
searches of these observers having shown that yeast consisted of a
lowly vegetable organism, capable of reproducing by budding, the
question arose, how was yeast originally formed, and around this
subject, as is well known, a fierce scientific controversy raged, the
Heterogenesists, on the one hand, upholding the doctrine of sponta-
neous generation, and the Biogenesists, on the other hand, asserting
that all life must be derived from preexisting life. With this aspect
of the matter, and with this controversy I do not propose on this
occasion to deal, and it will suffice perhaps to say that the rigid
experiments of Pasteur succeeded in proving to the satisfaction of
practically the whole scientific world that every yeast cell was de-
rived from a preexisting cell of the same kind, and that the doc-
trine of spontaneous generation was not based upon any foundation
of fact.
THE YEASTS—-CHAPMAN 303

The microscope having definitely shown yeast to consist of minute
living cells—that is to say, of a living organism—it became of high
interest and importance to study its life history, and to ascertain
what connection, if any, there was between the vital functions of the
organism and the phenomena of fermentation. It was very quickly
recognized that yeast usually reproduced by budding, but in 1839
Schwann appears to have observed for the first time that it was also
capable of reproducing by the formation of ascospores.

About the year 1856 Pasteur commenced his epoch-making’ re-
searches on fermentation, and brought to bear on the subject that
experimental skill and wonderful energy which were characteristic
of all his work. To deal with this in any detail would be impossible
within the limits assigned to a presidential address, and would, more-
over, take me outside the scope of my subject. It will, however,
suffice for my purpose if I point out that to Pasteur belongs the
honor of having definitely enunciated a physiological theory of fer-
mentation—that is to say, a theory which associated the formation of
the various fermentation products directly with the life activity of
the yeast organism. It is true that in some important respects his
views have had to undergo modification as the result of more recent
work, but the essential fact still remains that the production of
alcohol and carbon dioxide during the process of fermentation is
indirectly the result of the life activity of the yeast cell.

In 1897 Buchner made the very important and interesting obser-
vation that the liquid contents of the yeast cell, when added to a
fermentable liquid, are able to excite fermentation without the
presence of any cells at all. He showed that the production of
alcohol and carbon dioxide were the result of the activity of an
enzyme secreted by the cell, to which he gave the name zymase.
As in the case of other enzymes, zymase is very sensitive to external
conditions, and is also highly selective in respect of its chemical
activities. Thus, so far as is known, the hexoses alone, and of these,
only four (d-glucose, d-mannose, d-galactose, and d-fructose) are
directly fermentable; and before the fermentation of other sugars,
such as maltose and cane sugar, can take place, it is necessary that
they should be converted into one or other of these hexoses. This
is, in all cases, effected by enzymes which are secreted by the yeast,
and it is very interesting to note that certain yeasts, while secreting
invertase, and therefore capable of fermenting cane sugar, do not
secrete maltase, and are therefore incapable of fermenting maltose.
Then again, there are a few yeasts which, in addition to secreting
invertase and maltase, secrete lactase, and are therefore capable of
fermenting milk sugar. Every yeast cell is, in fact, a minute
laboratory in which chemical changes of the utmost complexity are
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

brought about with apparently the greatest ease, and where processes
of building up and breaking down are carried out in a manner of
which even to-day we have but very little conception.

We will now turn for a moment to the consideration of yeast as
a living organism.

The yeasts, as is well known, belong to the great family of the
fungi, and may be described as unicellular fungi, reproducing by
budding, and capable also of forming ascospores. This latter func-
tion is of importance from the point of view of classification, as
it serves to differentiate between what are regarded as the true
yeasts and certain other closely allied organisms, such as the torulee
and mycoderma. In the common process of budding, the bud, which
occurs first as a small protuberance on the surface of the cell, quickly
increases in size until it has attained roughly the dimensions of the
parent cell, after which it usually becomes detached, leading a sepa-
rate existence, and reproducing in turn by the same process. It
often happens that before the offspring cell has separated from the
parent cell it has itself commenced to bud, and so chains or clusters
of connected cells may frequently be seen.

In the second mode of reproduction to which reference is made
above, the yeast cell becomes changed into an asc, in which are
formed a number of spores which may vary from one to as many as
twelve, but is usually from two to four. The conditions which favor
this mode of reproduction are the employment of young and vigorous
cells, a moist surface, plenty of air, and a suitable temperature, usu-
ally about 25° C. Under these conditions, and at the end of about
24 hours, certain changes will be seen to be taking place in the pro-
toplasmic contents of many of the cells, especially the more vigor-
ous ones. The protoplasm becomes at first very granular, and then
signs of segregation become visible, the contents of the cell separat-
ing into a number of ill-defined portions, usually from 2 to 4, but in
some species as many as 8 or 12. A little later each of these segre-
gated portions of highly granular protoplasm becomes invested with
a membrane, and it can then be seen that the cell contains a number
of well-defined spores. During the formation and development of
the spores the parent cell often swells considerably, and in the end
bursts, liberating the spores, each of which constitutes an individual
yeast cell, and is capable of reproducing in the ordinary way by
budding. It may be added that the line between budding and asco-
spore formation is not very sharp, and that it often happens that
budding and sporulation may be taking place simultaneously. As a
general rule the spores are spherical, but in some of the yeasts they
have very characteristic forms. It would seem that spore formation
THE YEASTS—-CHAPMAN 305

is a provision on the part of nature for securing the persistence of
the species under conditions in which active budding is impossible.
It appears, at any rate, to play an important part in the hibernation
of yeasts, rendering it possible for them to live through the winter
in the soil, or on surfaces from which very little nutriment can be
extracted.

In addition to reproducing by budding and by ascospore forma-
tion, yeasts are capable of reproducing by still a third method,
namely, that of true conjugation. In these yeasts, constituting the
genus Zygosaccharomyces, certain of the cells form, instead of ordi-
nary buds, long beak-like processes. When the “beaks” of two ad-
jacent cells touch one another a union takes place, the tips of the
“beaks ” disappear, and a tubular connection is established between
the two cells, one or both of which then proceed to produce asco-
spores. Of these conjugating yeasts a number of different species
have been described, and this sexual process in one form or another
appears to be much more common than was until recently supposed.

Finally, there is a group of organisms, usually included among
the Saccharomycetes, which are capable of reproducing by the pro-
cess of fission. In these so-called Schizosaccharomycetes the fission
of the cell, often accompanied by conjugation, is preceded by the
formation of a septum, which at once commences to divide into
two lamelle. Budding does not occur, but the cells form spores,
usually from two to eight. It will be seen, therefore, that in the
ereat family of the yeasts many types of reproduction are exhib-
ited—from true conjugation (heterogamic and isogamic) in the case
of some, through isogamic conjugation of ascospores formed in the
same asc, in others, to complete parthenogenesis, as in the case of
many of the better known cultivated yeasts. The industrial yeasts,
which appear to be entirely asexual, may perhaps be regarded as
retrograde forms descended from higher types in which sexuality
was quite clearly marked. On this point I do not consider myself
qualified to express an opinion.

As may well be supposed, in the case of a group of organisms
which, although presenting some very important differences, are
yet so closely allied, and in which there are very many transitional
forms, a great deal of confusion exists in respect of their classifica-
tion. The system at present generally adopted is one based upon
that suggested by Hansen in 1904, but it is customary to include
the Schizosaccharomycetes which he excluded, and there has been, of
course, a natural tendency to include a number of subdivisions. The
great family of the Saccharomycetes is capable of being subdivided
into a number of groups or genera, each of which in turn includes a
aumber of species, considerably more than 100 of which have been
described.
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

I will not attempt to deal with these various genera in any detail,
but it may be of interest just to give some indication of the gen-
eral nature of the principles underlying one of the systems of classi-
fication, which differs, however, in some respects from that of Hansen.
According to this, yeasts may be divided into five main groups. The
first group includes the Schizosaccharomycetes, characterized as I
have indicated above by their method of reproducing by transverse
division. The ascs often result from isogamic conjugation, and as a
rule from four to eight ascospores are formed.

The second group, or Zygosaccharomycetes, consists of yeasts in
which conjugation of a more or less well-marked character is con-
nected with the formation of the asc. This may, perhaps, be a very
primitive group, and one from which, possibly, the parthenogenic
yeasts have been in process of time derived. This group has been
divided into a number of genera, depending on the precise character
of the conjugation process.

The third group comprises all those yeasts which reproduce
mainly by budding, and in which the formation of the ase is not,
so far as is known, preceded by any process of conjugation. This
group, which has been subdivided into several genera, comprises the
true Saccharomycetes—that is to say, the alcohol-producing yeasts
of industry.

The fourth group, which includes the genera Pichia and Wiilia,
comprises yeasts which do not exhibit any trace of sexuality, and
which usually develop in the form of a film or skin upon the
surface of the liquids in which they happen to be growing. ‘These
organisms do not, as a rule, produce any appreciable quantity of
alcohol, but some of them give rise to the production of fruity
ethers. Finally, there is a fifth group, including two or three
genera, consisting of organisms whose connection with the Saccha-
romycetes is somewhat doubtful.

From what I have said it will have been gathered that the
division of the yeasts into a number of more or less well-defined
genera has been based almost entirely upon differences in their
morphological and physiological characters. For the further dif-
ferentiation into species it was found necessary, in many cases, to
adopt other methods of investigation, such as the behavior of the
yeasts toward certain selected carbohydrates, and observations on
the optimum conditions required for the formation of ascospores
and of films.

With regard to the first point, on which I have already touched,
it has, for example, been found possible to subdivide the genus
Saccharomyces—which is included in the third of the main groups
THE YEASTS—CHAPMAN 307

to which I have referred above—into five subgroups, each of which
again is capable of subdivision into a considerable number of well-
defined species.

With regard to film formation, this again is a character of
considerable importance in connection with the differentiation of
species. As I have indicated, certain of the yeasts—especially
those included in the fourth of the main groups above referred to—
grow normally on the surface of nutrient liquids, forming dry
greasy films, and producing, as a rule, little or no alcohol. It is
not, however, of such films as these that I am now speaking.
Although the true Saccharomycetes do not readily exhibit the
phenomenon of film formation, yet under proper conditions this
is capable of being brought about. In order to obtain films, the
culture, in wort for example, must be allowed to remain at rest
for a considerable time with an abundance of air, and at warm
room temperatures. Under these circumstances small specks of
yeast will generally appear on the surface of the liquid some con-
siderable time after the actual fermentation has come to an end.
These gradually coalesce, forming isolated patches of different
forms and sizes, and, finally, these patches unite to form a con-
tinuous and generally glutinous film which may extend to the walls
of the vessel. <A study of the time and temperature factors involved
in the formation of these films affords, as I have indicated, one
method of distinguishing between certain yeast species. So far as
the purely morphological differences are concerned, it was observed
at a comparatively early period that the yeasts exhibited consid-
erable differences in shape, some being spherical or ovoid, whilst
others were decidedly ellipsoidal, and others, again, elongated and
sausage-shaped. On the other hand, in one and the same species
very great differences in shape and size were frequently noticed,
depending upon the general environment and growth conditions of
the organism. No great advance, therefore, could be made in dif-
ferentiating between the various species until Hansen, in 1879,
devised and explained the technique for obtaining any quantity of
yeast by starting with a single cell. In this way absolutely pure
cultures could be obtained, and the uncertainty which had previously
existed was removed.

Of the very large number of yeast species known, it may be said
at once that only a comparatively few are of industrial importance,
and it is customary to divide the various yeast species for technical
purposes into the “cultivated” and the “ wild” yeasts. The former
include brewers’ and distillers’ yeast in all its varieties—that is to
say, yeast which has from the earliest times been used for the pro-
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

duction of alcoholic beverages, and has in a sense been cultivated for
the purpose. This yeast represents, as far as is known, one species—
namely, Saccharomyces cerevisie—although there are many races
and varieties which differ considerably in certain respects, as, for
instance, in the rapidity with which they bring about fermentation,
the degree of attenuation which they can effect, and the flavor of
the finished product.

The “wild” yeasts are yeasts which occur wild in nature, fre-
quently having their habitat on the surface of ripe fruits, and often
finding their way into the brewery. Some of these yeasts, such as
the wine yeasts, are capable of fulfilling useful functions; others
again are, so far as is known, without effect good or bad; whilst
others are industrially pathogenic—that is to say, give rise to prod-
ucts which are unpleasant in respect of flavor or smell or which
exhibit some other defect, such as pronounced and _ persistent
turbidity.

The importance of these observations in connection with industrial
fermentation processes may easily be imagined. Prior to the isola-
tion and study of the various yeast species, and to the microscopical
control to which it naturally led, industrial fermentations were very
largely a matter of chance. Sometimes the results were good, some-
times they were bad, but none could say precisely why. Now all that
is changed, and when it is remembered that the industrialist who is
concerned with any fermentation process is threatened on all sides
by intruding organisms which may have the effect of reducing his
yields or spoiling his products, the need for scientific control, and
for the constant employment of the microscope will be evident.

I now propose to turn for a few minutes to a consideration of the
cytology, or, if I may be permitted the expression, the anatomy of
the yeast cell. For a great many years after yeast had been subjected
to microscopical examination there was much uncertainty as to
whether the cell did or did not contain a true nucleus. Although the
existence of a nucleus is now well established, there is still some
doubt as to the precise nature—to say nothing of the functions—of
certain of the internal structures which the microscope reveals.
Wager and Peniston, Guilliermond, Fuhrmann, Henneberg, Meyer,
and others have published important papers dealing with the cytol-
ogy of the yeast cell, and have shown that it possesses a well-defined
and complex internal structure.

According to Wager and Peniston the main vacuole is to be re-
garded as the nucleus, and they consider that this is the structure
which is chiefly concerned in the promotion of metabolism, whilst

THE YEASTS—CHAPMAN 309

the deeply staining structure in close contact with it, and which is
generally regarded as the nucleus, is to be looked upon as the nucleo-
lus. This is a view in which I have never felt myself able to concur,
although much, of course, depends on the precise meaning given to
the words nucleus and nucleolus, respectively.

In addition to the nucleus with a clearly differentiated structure
and a nucleolus, the cell contains cytoplasm, a chondrium, metachro-
matic granules, a nuclear and other vacuoles, and certain thread-like
structures. The cell wall, about which a good deal of uncertainty
exists, appears to consist as a rule of a single membrane, and to have
a complex chemical composition.

In addition to these elements, which may be regarded to some
extent as structural, there exist in the cytoplasm accumulations of
materials concerned in the nutrition or metabolism of the cell, such,
for example, as glycogen and fat.

With regard to the functions of these various cell elements it is not
yet possible to speak with very great certainty. As in all cells the
nucleus is the main seat, or rather the directing organ, of the physio-
logical functions of the cell. It is all important in cellular reproduc-
tion and division; it plays apparently a prominent part in nutrition,
and doubtless in it reside the properties which are hereditary, and
in virtue of which one species may be distinguished from another.
The chondrium, consisting of two forms of mitochondria, appears to
be concerned in processes of nutritional elaboration, and the nuclear
or main vacuole appears to be largely concerned with metabolic
processes, and is according to some observers the seat of fermentative
activity. This latter function has, moreover, been observed to be
dependent on the amount of metachromatic granules contained in the
cell, the larger the amount of metachromatin (volutin) the greater
the fermentative activity; and Henneberg has gone so far as to sug-
gest that the metachromatic granules may be the parent substance
from which the enzyme zymase is derived. From this necessarily
brief and sketchy account of the yeast-cell anatomy it will at least be
gathered that our knowledge is very imperfect and that we have
much to learn, and it may be hoped that some of the expert cytolo-
gists who are members of our Society may be induced to turn their
attention to the elucidation of the subject. There can, I think, be
very little doubt that the results would be of important industrial as
well as of purely biological value.

The ordinary microscopical examination of cells which have been
subjected to the drastic processes of fixing and staining obviously
has its limitations, and modifications of structure, such as must al-
most inevitably be brought about by the above processes, may very

76041—26——21
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

easily give rise to incorrect conclusions in regard to the internal
ctructure of such a delicate organism as the yeast cell. It would al-
most appear, in fact, that we have gone as far as it is possible to go
in this direction, and some improved method of investigation will
have to be resorted to if many of the questions which are at present
in doubt are to be satisfactorily solved. It is possible, for instance,
that a very careful microscopical study of the unstained cell by means
of ultra-violet light may be helpful in giving us a better insight into
its internal structure, and Mr. Barnard has already carried out some
interesting experiments of a preliminary character in this direction.

When one remembers that the whole of a miniature solar system
is comprised within the compass of an atom, it is not, perhaps, alto-
gether fanciful to suppose that the yeast cell—small as it is—may
have a much more highly developed internal organization than has
been revealed with our present imperfect means of investigation, and
that there may be more or less distinct localization of the different
functions of the cell. In this connection two sets of facts may be
briefly referred to.

In the first place, it is well known that the yeast cell, like other
living organisms, may be made to perform different functions accord-
ing to the conditions under which it is compelled to carry out its
activities. Thus, whilst the ordinary Saccharomyces cerevisie nor-
mally decomposes sugar with the production of alcohol and carbon
dioxide, and only about 3 per cent of glycerine, it has been found that
when the fermentation is conducted in the presence of a considerable
quantity of sodium sulphite the main products of the fermentation
consist of acetaldehyde and glycerine in roughly equal molecular
proportions, and that instead of the normal 3 per cent as much as 36
per cent of glycerine can be produced. In other words, it would
appear that the well-known equation representing fermentation,
Vv1Z:

C,H,.0, = 2C,H,O + 2CO,
alcohol

has, when the process is carried out in the presence of sulphite, to
be written in the following very different and unfamiliar form,

O,H,,0,=CH,COH+CO,+C,H,O;
acetaldehyde glycerine
In the next place, it is of considerable interest to note that the

behavior of the enzymes within the cell appears to differ materially
from that of the same enzymes in the expressed juice. Thus, the
THE YEASTS—-CHAPMAN oll

acceleration of fermentation by the addition of aldehydes is much
greater in the expressed yeast juice than in the case of the living cell,
and there are other respects in which the actions proceeding in the
juice differ from those occurring within the cell. This seems to
suggest that the mechanism of fermentation is in some way directly
connected with the organized structure of the cell. In the living
cell, again, the velocity of fermentation is much greater than in
the expressed juice, and it would seem that in its natural surround-
ings within the cell zymase is free to act without the disturbing
influences which probably exist in the expressed juice where all the
cell contents are mingled, and some substances may well interfere
with the activity of others.

Cramer (Proc. Roy. Soc., 1915, 88, B, 584) has dealt with this
important and interesting point, and has shown that the most
striking difference between the action of enzymes within the living
cells and their action after extraction is the extreme sensitiveness
with which, in the former case, they respond to very slight changes
in the surrounding medium, being sometimes retarded, sometimes
accelerated, and sometimes reversed. According to Cramer surface
tension would appear to be an important factor, such surface tension
being operative, for example, at the periphery of the cell and at
the boundaries of the nucleus, vacuoles, granules, colloidal aggre-
gates, etc. Thus the conditions for enzyme action may be very dif-
ferent in one part of the cells from those occurring in another part.
Under the influence of very slight changes in external conditions
there may, for example, take place within the cell a movement of
the cytoplasm, or changes in the concentration of the cell constituents
which, by altering the surface tension at different parts, may al-
together change the conditions for enzymic action. Even assuming
Cramer’s explanation to be correct, it still means that the great
variations in the physiological and chemical activities of the cell
are dependent on internal structure, and it is to this problem that
future research may usefully be directed. Any great increase in
our knowledge of this subject. might prove to be of the highest im-
portance, not merely in regard to industrial operations, but as af-
fording a deeper insight than we yet possess into the true character
of the vital activities of, the living cell. It may be hoped that our
society, which has done so much to direct and foster the study of
microscopical science, may figure prominently in connection with
an investigation, the results of which might well prove to be of
fundamental importance. In the living cell we have, in fact, a
chemical laboratory of the highest efficiency, and of the most re-
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

markable character; and could we but understand and imitate arti-
ficially the processes of building up and breaking down which are
so quietly and so regularly occurring in a single cell of yeast, we
should be not only within measurable distance of a new organic
chemistry, but also we should be appreciably nearer to an under-
standing of that greatest of all problems, the nature of life.
TROPICAL CYCLONES AND THE DISPERSAL OF LIFE
FROM ISLAND TO ISLAND IN THE PACIFIC?

By Prof. STEPHEN SARGENT VISHER
Indiana University

EVIDENCE FOR AND AGAINST A PACIFIC CONTINENT

One of the mooted questions concerning the Pacific is how the
biota now found upon the scattered islands got there. There are two
great schools of thought in respect to the matter. One believes that
the presence of numerous Asiatic forms can only be explained on the
assumption that at some earlier time many of the now remote islands
were connected into a continent. Some members of this school think
that the continent extended as far as the Low Archipelago and Ha-
wali.2 Others do not ask for so much land, but assume a southeast-
ward extension of Asia, to include the East Indies, Philippines, New
Caledonia, Fiji, and Samoa. Certain large islands are also believed
to have existed, for example, one that would include all the Hawaiian
Islands and another that would unite the Cook, Austral, Society, and
Tuamotu islands.’

The other school of thought is opposed to the idea of a Pacific con-
tinent, or of vast islands in it, and to the extension of Asia and
Australia beyond New Caledonia.*’ They contend that the agencies
distributing life from island to island are sufficiently efficient to have
enabled the land forms to spread to the remote islands upon which
they are found.

However, there are several features of the distribution of land
forms that are difficult to explain on the basis of prevailing winds
and ocean currents. One is the fact that many of the forms of
even the easternmost islands are related to Asiatic forms rather
than to American forms. That is not true of all types of life; a

1Reprinted by permission from The American Naturalist, Vol. LIX, January—
February, 1925.

2Campbell, Douglass H., ‘‘Some botanical and environmental aspects of Hawaii,”
Ecology, Vol. I, pp. 257-269, 1920; Bryan, Wor. A., “ Hawaiian fauna and flora,’ Pro-
ceedings First Pan Pacific Scientific Conference, Vol. 1, p. 158, Honolulu, 1921; Scharff,
R. F., ‘‘ Distribution and Origin of Life in America.’”’ 1911.

$Pilsbry, H. A., ‘“‘The dispersal and affinities of Polynesian land snails,’ Proc.
Pan-Pacifie Scientific Conf., Vol. I, pp. 147-151, 1921.

4Many geologists and biologists belong to this school, including T. C. Chamberlin,
C. Schuchert, H. E. Gregory, D. S. Jordan, F. Muir, etc.

313
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

considerable number of Hawaiian forms, for example, being derived
from a few American ancestors. Many of the seed plants, birds,
and some insects were derived from Central American ancestors.*
But a large enough percentage of the forms are so Asiatic as to
have led those scientists who have examined this particular type
of evidence to doubt if the existing distribution can be explained
on the basis of existing conditions. They have shown, for example,
that a favorable wind (the prevailing trades) and current (the
drift set in motion by the trades) should have given Hawaii many
Californian and Mexican forms of littoral mollusca, if these agencies
were effective in transporting these forms.® Likewise, the believers
in the theory of widespread lands and certain other workers point
out that the prevailing winds and currents throughout the Pacific
tropics are westward, and the numerous species of Asiatic descent
must have advanced eastward against the prevailing winds and
currents. Yet the wind and currents are the only important agencies,
aside from man, that might have transported the plants and animals
in question from island to island.

HOW HURRICANES CAN DISTRIBUTE LIFE

Is it not highly probable that tropical cyclones have played a
part in the dispersal of life from island to island in the Pacific?
Upon their equatorward side there are often violent westerly winds,
completely overcoming the prevailing easterlies. As pointed out
in discussions of the courses followed, many storms move eastward,
within the tropics, or just beyond the tropics.’ In moving east-
ward, the strong westerly wind on its equatorward side carries
much with it, and sets up a strong drift as well. An illustration of
the occasional power and persistence of this westerly wind is given
by the renowned missionary John Williams, who, driven by canni-
bals from Hervey Island, drifted in an open boat 500 miles to
Tahiti with a constant westerly wind.* Normally, easterlies prevail
in that portion of the ocean.

The power of the wind to transport light objects through the air
is frequently illustrated during hurricanes, as, for example, when
Jand birds and insects are carried out to sea in large numbers.
Indeed, the presence of butterflies and birds far out at sea has

° Brown, F. B. H., “ Origin of Hawaiian flora,’’ Proceedings First Pan-Pacific Scientific
Conference, vol. 1, pp. 131-142, 1920 (seed plants); Muir, F., “Some problems in
Hawaiian entomology’ (insects), ibid., and Henshaw, “ Fauna Hawaiiensis,’”’ volume
vertebrates (birds).

6 Muir, F., loc. cit.

7Visher, S. S., “‘'Tropical cyclones of the Pacific with charts of tracks,’ Monthly
Weather Review, Vol, 50, pp. 288—297, 583-589, 1922, and Bulletin 20 of Bishop Museum
of Honolulu, 1925.

8 Williams, John, “ Missionary Enterprises in the South Sea Islands,” London, 1838.
DISPERSAL OF LIFE—VISHER Sid

often been mentioned in connection with hurricanes. A specific case
of interest is mentioned by Dr. F. Woods-Jones ® concerning insects
at Cocos-Keeling Island in the Indian Ocean. During a severe
northwesterly wind associated with a hurricane, hundreds of dragon-
flies were driven the 700 miles from* Sumatra and Java, the nearest
land, to this little island. However, as the island possessed no suit-
able environment for dragonflies the introduction was ineffectual
in spite of the large numbers driven there. But if a marsh or other
favorable environment for these insects should develop on the
island, there is no question that within a short time some storm
wind would stock it with dragonflies.

An actual increase of the permanent fauna of Cocos-Keeling
Island took place during Doctor Wood-Jones’s residence there, shortly
after they had added a new plant, tomatoes grown from seed. At
first the tomatoes had no enemies, but before the first crop was
ripened an insect pest was brought by the same cyclonic gale that
brought the dragon flies from Java and Sumatra. Although Cocos-
Keeling Island is in the belt of trades, which blow with exceptional
strength and persistence from Australia, almost no Australian species
are found in the fauna. Doctor Woods-Jones believes this fact is
an illustration of Alfred Russell Wallace’s generalization that fly-
ing forms are rather well adjusted to the prevailing winds, just as
aquatic forms living in a regular current commonly are adjusted
to it so as not to be swept away. But the sudden, irregular, violent
winds and currents sometimes associated with tropical cyclones take
many individuals by surprise and carry them away from land.

Not only are animals with wings sometimes carried long distances
by hurricane winds, but many forms attached to leaves are thus
carried. The stripping off of almost all the leaves occasionally ac-
complished by hurricanes has been mentioned often. Some of these
leaves are carried far, and on these parachutes are sometimes at-
tached worms, larve eggs, or small snails.°

HURRICANE CURRENTS AS DISPERSING AGENCIES

The strength of the abnormal ocean currents set in motion by
hurricane winds is mentioned repeatedly in the Pacific Islands
Pilot.1 The significance of such abnormal currents may be illus-
trated by a statement concerning the Hawaiian Islands. A few
years ago the mangrove was introduced upon the island of Molokai.

® Professor at Adelaide University, Australia. Remarks following my paper before the
Royal Society of New South Wales, November, 1921.

to Pilsbry, H. A., ‘“‘ The dispersal and affinities of Polynesian land snail faunas,” Proc.
Virst Pan-Pacifiec Scientific Conference, vol. 1, p. 149, Honolulu, 1921.

1U. S. Hydrographic Office, Washington, 1920.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

In spite of strong normal currents at right angles to the favorable
direction, seeds are occasionally floated to Oahu by abnormal cur-
rents, and the tree is now establishing itself there, more than 25
miles from Molokai.**

The facts that most of the lowland plants and animals of the
wide stretch from Fiji and the Carolines to the Low Archipelago
and Hawaii are of the same or closely allied species, and that at
the same time there is a progressive dropping out of species east-
ward, suggest strongly that the distribution of life forms has been
from scattered island to island and has been accomplished by trans-
porting agencies that are rather efficient, though not perfectly so.
The fact that relatively few forms are of American origin (except
remotely) suggests the inadequacy of the normal trade winds and
normal currents as agencies of dispersal, in accord with Wallace’s
law concerning normal winds and currents. However, the relatively
small part that South America has played in supplying forms to the
Pacific Islands doubtless is due partly to two special conditions.
One is found in the few islands in the eastern part of the tropical
Pacific. Indeed, good atlases show no islands between the Low
Archipelago and South America, about 3,000 miles away. The Gala-
pagos Islands, on the Equator, are almost the only islands north of
that zone in similar longitudes. South of 24° S. latitude are only
Easter Island (28° S.), Sala-y-Gomez (2614° S.), and a few other
islets or rocks to the west and northwest of Easter Island, and also
San Felix and Juan Fernandez Islands near the eightieth meridian,
not very far from South America.

The second special condition highly unfavorable to the spread of
South American forms over the Pacific Islands is the fact that much
of the western portion of tropical South America is almost barren
of life, on account of the extreme aridity of the lowlands and the
presence of the lofty Andes only a short distance from the coast.
Somewhat similar conditions obtain over a wide belt in the North
Pacific. There are almost no islands between Hawaii and North
America, and most of the coast of Mexico is almost barren on account
of aridity. On the other hand, the southeastern coast of Asia and
the East Indies teem with forms adapted to the climatic and soil con-
ditions which obtain in most of the Pacific Islands.

Another argument of advocates of great extensions of the lands
is the following: They say that wind and currents, even those asso-
ciated with hurricanes, apparently are not effective in the dispersal
of certain types of life, as shown by the absence from the coast of

4% Oral communication by C. S. Judd, Territorial forester. Several illustrations of the

significance of changes in ocean currents in the Atlantic are given in papers in the Pro-
ceedings of the First Pan-Pacific Scientific Conference, vols. 1 and 2.
DISPERSAL OF LIFE—VISHER Baws

Queensland of certain forms known in New Caledonia. Both the
normal trades and numerous hurricanes pass over New Caledonia
and thence to Queensland, and yet the coconut is established at only a
few points on the Queensland coast, and certain species of land snails
abundant in New Caledonia are unknown in Queensland.

The general lack of the coconut in Queensland appears not to be
due, however, to a lack of seed there, for they are often noticed
sprouting along the shore. The severe droughts during the cooler
season of each year, characteristic of this part of Australia, may
be the factor preventing their widespread establishment on this
coast.

The absence from Queensland of the large showy land snail (Pla-
costylus), common on the islands to the eastward, may be due to
the presence in Australia of enemies that prevent their establish-
ment. ‘The Australian bush turkey feeds upon similar Mollusca,
and it has been suggested by Curator Charles Hedley, of the Aus-
tralian Museum, as possibly responsible for the absence of this island _
snail in Queensland.

HURRICANE FLOODS AND LIFE DISPERSAL

Another way in which hurricanes have influenced the dispersal of
land forms is in connection with the floods they cause, whenever
excessive amounts of rain fall in a short time. There are numerous
records of the fall of more than 10 inches in two days, and some rec-
ords of more than 60 inches in three days.4* Under such conditions
normally rather small streams become rivers and carry to sea vast
quantities of driftwood. The river banks are eroded badly, and
many trees are undercut and carried out to sea. During the excessive
rains, large masses of dirt and loose rock upon steep hillsides often
slp or slump, sometimes temporarily damming valleys. In case the
dam breaks, the sudden rush of waters does its part to contribute
natural rafts of driftwood, with their load of land animals and
seeds. Furthermore, the animals are not nearly so likely to be picked
off a raft by sea gulls or other birds during a hurricane as they are
in ordinary weather. Hence, the absence of long rivers flowing into
the Pacific, with the exception of the Chinese rivers, should not lead
to the assumption that natural rafts of considerable size and bio-
logical dispersing possibilities are lacking in the Pacific.™

18 Visher, 8S .S., ‘‘ Tropical climates from an ecological viewpoint,’ Ecology, Vol. IV,
pp. 1-10, 1923, and “ Tropical cyclones of the Pacific,’ Bull. 20, Bishop Museum, Hono-
lulu, 1925.

144 Pilsbry, H. A., (loc. cit.) has made this erroneous assumption. He states: “ The
argument for distribution of animals by natural rafts has never been more convincingly
stated than by W. D. Matthews in his paper ‘Climate and evolution.’ Much of his argu-
ment, however, is not applicable to the Pacific islands. Here we have no large rivers to
give forth natural rafts. If a single tree is washed to sea it must be very exceptional.”
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Tropical cyclones have also played a part in the distribution of
peoples over the Pacific. Legendary accounts indicate that a num-
ber of island groups were discovered by occupants of boats that had
been blown out of their course by storms. The discovery of New
Zealand by Polynesians en route from Samoa to the Cook Islands is
a specific illustration.*®

MAN AS AN AGENCY OF DISPERSAL

The great importance of man in distributing plants and animals
of economic importance and, incidentally and inadvertently, of
numerous smaller species concealed in the soil or bark or on leaves has
been emphasized by several scientists."

GEOLOGIC CHANGES

The dispersal of life from island to island over the Pacific has
been accomplished slowly. Undoubtedly, during the geologic ages,
there have been geologic changes that have been significant. For
example, it is known that long ago there was more than once a
strait where the continuous Central America now is. Conceivably at
such times the drift induced by the trade winds, and which is now
diverted northward in the Atlantic to form the Gulf Stream, may
have continued westward carrying with it some of the seed plants
and animals of the islands situated where Central America now is.'?

Likewise, any tropical cyclones that occurred then in the Carib:
bean region would have been more likely than now to sweep west-
ward far into the Pacific, for the atmospheric pressure conditions
prevailing over the land, especially mountainous land, seem often to
divert tropical cyclones.

Likewise, it is known that Australia was formerly connected with
Asia by way of the East Indies and New Caledonia. At such times,
it is probable that the normal ocean currents were distinctly different
from the present. While now part of the equatorial current finds its
way westward between the islands and enters the Indian Ocean, for-
merly the continuous land necessarily diverted the warm equatorial
current into higher latitudes.

Another change during the geologic past, which is much more
frequently mentioned, is the lowering of the sea level during the
accumulation of the continental glaciers of the several ice ages. It

© Best, Elston, ‘‘ Polynesian navigators, their exploration and settlement of the Pacific.”
Geographical Review, vol. 5, pp. 169-182, 1918.

16 For exantple, by Mayor, Alfred G., and Safford, W. E., in Proceedings First Pan-Pacific
Scientific Conference, vol. 1, pp. 15, 147, 183-187, and by Best Elston, loc. cit. Safford
has made especial study of the cultivated plants of Polynesia, loc. cit., pp. 183-187. See
also Guppy, H. B., “‘ Observations of a Naturalist in the Pacific,’”’ vol. 2, on “ The dis-
tribution of plants and animals,’ London, 1908.

17 Brown, F. B. H., loc. cit.
DISPERSAL OF LIFE—VISHER 319

is thought by some that the sea level was lowered about 60 feet dur-
ing the Pleistocene glacial epochs. Unquestionably there was some
lowering of the sea level, but probably not nearly that much, for the
glaciers probably were not nearly so thick as some have assumed.’
However, any considerable lowering of the sea would result in an
increase in the land area, sometimes connecting neighboring islands,
and hence facilitating the local spread of land forms.

DURATION OF GEOLOGIC TIME

The recent great increases in the estimates of the duration of the
geologic past also has a bearing upon the subject of tropical cyclones
and the dispersal of life in the Pacific. It is conceded that the
chances of a single hurricane doing much along this line are small.
The great reason why hurricanes have been largely ignored by the
students of this problem is because hurricanes were believed to occur
only at long intervals and were thought to be too rare to play much
of a part. But now that it is known that more than a score occur
annually, on the average, out in the Pacific (in addition to those in
the Philippine region) they take on a different aspect. Their sig-
nificance is also increased by the fuller appreciation of the diverse
ways in which they affect the lands, streams and currents. They are
also less likely to be ignored as a factor in the dispersal of life when
it is realized that the interval since the beginning of the Mesozoic
era probably is many times the 20,000,000 to 50,000,000 years it was
thought to be a few decades ago. Indeed, the remarkably convincing
evidence, derived by leading physical chemists from the study of the
products of the disintegration of radioactive substances in igneous
rocks of various geologic ages, indicates that probably more than a
billion years have elapsed since life became abundant upon the earth.
Hence, fortuitous happenings, such as the dispersal of living forms
by hurricanes, have had a long time in which to succeed.

’

18 Huntington and Visher, ‘‘ Climatic Changes, their Nature and Causes,’ New Haven,

p. 125, 1922.
a a i ny bs - ee 2 any ¥,
. we i Ae 7 a2 2 one * :
re SWVRS ne) 2 i. —e : 7: ‘
He aS i , — Ses Ber i
H j cre kak ‘ ~~
Wie get Votan a ahr Psi Enea Ee RA tas OS So ae
a PM =< Pitiveis Pee he ¥F
ve gees fry, Gee bs ee hh EEA
ob’ oh vitidene Segite LN bei!

oe oe au i edb AOL Ba
ANE, gO a 8 wun acon a lyaaenage
cin ath: aan ea MCG ponte ace ;
jens eng el Re, morale Y sisal inh, gh,

‘>
7 “

t
f

, 4
ee

“ ‘tow 2 io et mt ‘ai
: ~~ + bb
e ‘ che aa

= 2 ees ne

aint wall Lea ducnen geil ont eis slike Ageing ea
Geis jal! ie Rem DHA, OE at, Wa
flaiitice: <eauhnlty: Wile Lan it 4iad bate YEE | gee
oa? wees ward hotwiha bm lelends, oh 4 paulprn' tie tadigtt ¢ i Rt. aed
pee’? Abe bao Tait Tas ih ve hal with iti 4 rn
i yesh Qiertay, Pease ae ok te a

iortiog whan ante he aociigie:) aed whet wey
‘ AML a SS neha mm igih Lorn int wi Mw pret noe?

min wtiitiies SH) Gi bbb eh ee 4) BAUME § aa the wavered See
: tte Sil co et eee

‘ Wit) ae ery aise eS ;
Payer ‘sg rs Ania Pa ale ; re
P tie lag? A ly
hci Bs, Fish Av exe «

often so 14  s i" ae rae of

hy a pe Nedstat?
Sr a ee oe?

ISOLATION WITH SEGREGATION AS A FACTOR IN
ORGANIC EVOLUTION

By Davip STARR JORDAN

The purpose of the present paper is to stress the fact known to
every field worker in zoology or botany, that the molding of species
is mainly due to the separation by barriers of one kind or another of
related forms. There is probably not a genus in which separate spe-
cies have arisen in nature, that does not show that these forms have
some sort of geographical basis. There is not a case on record in
which the origin of a distinct species in nature can be traced with
any probability to “mutation” or to Mendelian or other hybridism.
That striking mutations occur in nature, as well as in the garden is
well known. Selective breeding will carry these very far, but in
open competition such variants are either crowded out or else
swamped by interbreeding with the mass. No normal definition of
species can be drawn from variants of this kind. A species is a
recognizable kind of organism produced in the natural divergence
of life, and which has run the gauntlet of time, and which has en-
dured. The problem of the origin of species relates to forms which
have lasted. The study of impermanent variants, whether due to
mutation or to artificial selection and segregation is a matter of
great importance. Among other things it should throw light on the
origin of actual species, but the problems involved in the two cases
are quite distinct.

To begin with, forms actually found in nature we must consider
as genuine species. Nothing can be more real than that which
really exists. Natural species, nevertheless, have as a rule indefinite
boundaries shading off into subspecies, geminate or representative
species, ontogenetic forms and the like, and may be variously altered
by artificial selection in conjunction with artificial segregation. Al
their multifarious eccentricities command attention. As Darwin once
observed, such facts are fascinating to us “as speculatists, however
odious to us as systematists.” They must be reckoned with, not
through speculation but by intimate understanding of actual realities.
But to extend our knowledge of a species we must ring the changes
on the variations to which it is susceptible. For the degree of vari-
ability is also a specific character. On such problems hundreds of

321
ee ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

geneticists are now at work, with the handicap that their studies
look forward to changes that may be effected, not backward to ancient
responses to shifting environment.

In the study of any species whatever, we encounter four factors:
‘Two intrinsic—heredity and variation; two extrinsic—selection and
isolation or separation, with its accompanying segregation, the one
insuring the nonsurvival of the nonadaptable, the other leading to
mating by propinquity, through biological friction which prevents
wide crossing by interrupting the fluidity of life. Factors other
than these four may exist, but in the history of every individual of
which a species is composed, each of these has been potent. With
that fact in mind, in view of the great range of investigation cover-
ing these matters, one may affirm that no wide-reaching biological
problem is more completely explained than that of “the origin of
species.”

The historic origin of individual species of living organisms runs
closely parallel with the origin of individual words in a language.
One may trace the derivation of thousands of words, while yet hesi-
tating or “expressing agnosticism” as to the origin of language.
Tn like fashion, we may trace back to their original stocks thousands
of animal or plant species and still hesitate about or “express
agnosticism” as to a complete definition of biological origins. For
after all each one has its own history, including vicissitudes of
migration, selection, and separation; and the theoretical generaliza-
tion can be only an inductive summing up of all evidence obtained.

In the study of species as related to geographical conditions, one
is most impressed by the recognition of “twin” species, forms closely
related but nevertheless distinct, separated from each other by some
kind of barrier. To similar parallel forms I gave, in 1908, the name
of “geminate species.” These agree with each other in generic
structural traits. In all matters of adaptation to environment, pre-
sumably results of selection, they may be absolutely identical, as
also in habits unless confronted by some novel condition. They
differ in minor regards, presumably of later origin than the generic
traits.

I indicated the “law of geminate species” as follows: Given
any species in any region, the nearest related species is not likely to
be found in the same region, nor in a remote region, but in a neigh-
boring district separated from the first by a barrier of some sort or
at least by a belt of country the breadth of which gives the effect
of a barrier.

The ornithologist, Dr. Joel A. Allen, accepted this generalization
and called it “Jordan’s Law,” though of course it rests on the
ORGANIC EVOLUTION—JORDAN a20

observation of many workers. For it is a matter of common know]l-
edge among field naturalists that the minor differences which sep-
arate species and subspecies are due to some form of isolation with
segregation. Selection produces adaptation, but the distinctive
characters of species are, in general, nonadaptive. By some barrier
or other the members of one minor group are prevented from inter-
breeding with those of another minor group or with the mass of the
species. As a result, local peculiarities are fixed. ‘ Migration holds
species true, localization lets them slip,” or rather leaves them in the
backwash of currents of evolution. Peculiarities thus set off by isola-
tion become intensified by in-and-in breeding, or segregation, and
the particular environment exercises some continuous type of selec-
tion until at last there emerges a new form, recognizable as distinct.
And while its range rarely coincides with that of the parent species,
or with any other closely cognate form, neither is it likely to be
located far away. In the few cases where the range of geminate
species overlaps in any degree, the fact seems to find an explanation
in the surmounting (to some extent) of a barrier by one or other of
the twin forms. The obvious immediate element in the formation
and molding of species is therefore isolation, with (behind) the
factors of heredity, variation, selection, and others as yet more or
less hypothetical.

Illustrations of geminate species of birds, mammals, fishes, rep-
tiles, snails, and insects are well known to all students of these
groups; examples may be found on every hand. I have myself
gathered the record of hundreds of pairs of zoological twins, an
enumeration for which the present paper has no space.*

It is clear enough that species change with space and with time.
With space, because separation takes place and new environment
brings new stress of selection while isolation of individuals involves
some difference in parentage. In like fashion, species change with
time, because new conditions arise, new enemies, new foods, new
separations, new selections. That notable differences obtain in time,
even in pure strains, and when there is no visible reason for change,
is clearly shown by the experience of stock breeders. In geologic
time one geminate species often follows another and in the same
locality, a fact lately shown by the writer in an extensive survey
of the Miocene fish fauna of California.’

The application of Jordan’s Law to plants has been denied.
But geminate species are just as prevalent in botany as in zoology,
and the effects of isolation in species forming among plants are

1See Dudley Memorial Volume, Stanford University Press, 1913.
2 Fossil Fishes of the California Tertiary: Stanford University Press, 1921.
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

just as distinct. They are merely obscured by special conditions
which obtain among plants.

Crossing the Temperate Zone anywhere on east and west lines,
we find plant after plant replaced across barriers by closely related
forms. Illustrations may be taken from among the higher types—
equally well no doubt from among lower ones. Some genera belt
the earth or come very near doing so, each form having its twin
as next neighbor. A single example, that of the plane tree,
Platanus, may suffice. Another would be the blackberry, Rubus
villosus, and related species.

A natural law is not invalidated by the presence of effects due to
other causes in the same environment. Actual conditions in nature
are everywhere products not of single and simple forces, but re-
sultants of many causative influences, often operative through the
long course of ages.

As a rule, related species in almost every group are connected by
a fringe of intergradations or subspecies. Where barriers are sharply
defined, geminate species also are sharply defined.. Where diffuse,
geographical subspecies connect them, either wholly or in part. We
recognize no difference between species and subspecies except that
involved in sharpness of definition. If the particular barrier can
not now be crossed, a species resultant from the presence of the barrier
will be well defined and therefore unquestionable, however small the
elements of difference. Subspecies are almost invariably associated
with some feature of geographical distribution.

It has been claimed that geminate forms are not true species be-
cause they often intergrade one with another, and would probably
be lost by intermingling were the barriers removed. Some maintain
also that only physiological tests can be trusted, as true species will
not blend and their hybrids, if they exist, are sterile. This assump-
tion is purely hypothetical. Interbreeding is no test of species.
Closely related species in almost any group of plants or animals can
usually be readily crossed. As the relation becomes less intimate,
we find partial sterility of varying grades and at last total incom-
patibility.

In most groups, probably in all, the characters which distinguish
species from one another are elements neither useful nor injurious.
Unless we take “natural selection” to cover both processes, as
Darwin certainly did, we must assign to “selection” the preserva-
tion and intensification of adaptive characters, and to “isolation ”
the seizing and fixing of the nonuseful—usually fluctuating—ele-
ment. It is a fact well known to breeders that these indifferent
or nonuseful characters are generally more persistent in heredity
ORGANIC EVOLUTION—JORDAN 325

than traits which are plainly adaptive. The slight traits which
mark races are in themselves not obviously valuable in the struggle
for existence.

Moritz Wagner, the pioneer in this line of investigation, showed
plainly that in the study of the evolution of any form we need to
know where its has lived, what it did, how it was bounded, and what
was its relation to other forms, geographically as well as morpho-
logically. His work, a most necessary supplement to that of Dar-
win, has never received the attention it deserves. This is due in part
to the fact that most investigators do not travel. They know little
of animal or plant geography at first hand. They have had nothing
to do with species as living, varying, reproducing, adapting, and
spreading groups of organisms. Another reason lies in Wagner’s
attitude of opposition to Darwinism. For natural selection he sub-
stituted separation, “ raumliche Sonderung,” denying altogether the
potency of the former factor. He saw the two as competing, not coop-
erating elements, and thus threw on isolation the impossible task of
accounting for adaptation. One need not ascribe to natural selec-
tion the “Allmacht” which some Neo-Darwinians have claimed for
it, yet on the other hand those who reject it as a factor in organic
evolution give no rational explanation of the universality of adaptive
organs and adaptive traits, no clue to the most universal characters of
organisms in general.

Certain writers urge that neither selection nor isolation are factors
in evolution, but rather elements in species forming, a process de-
fined as something distinct from evolution. They say that these
obstacles in the stream of life only help to split on-moving groups
of organisms into different categories, while the impulse to forward
movement is internal and the changes of evolution proper affect
groups as a whole, and are not concerned with dividing them into
species.

Such a view may be questioned on two grounds; it is untrue as
to facts, or else merely a matter of words. We know nothing of
evolution 7m vacuo, of change in life unrelated to environment. All
forms of life are split up into species, with adaptation to external
conditions visible in every structure. We know of no way in which
organisms become adapted to special conditions except by the pro-
gressive failures of those which do not fit. No organism has escaped
or can escape the grasp of selection. In like manner, the world being
full of physical barriers, no organism escapes biological friction
which prevents uniformity in breeding. There must be some degree
of “raumliche Sonderung,” even in a drop of water. As Wagner
truthfully observes: “ Ohne Isolirung keine Arten.”

76041—26——_22
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

To admit known facts and yet say that selection and isolation are
not factors in evolution would appear to make the matter a mere
question of words. If by evolution we mean the theoretical progress
of life, due solely to forces intrinsic in organisms, then outside
influences are of course not factors in such evolution. If, however,
we mean the actual life movements of actual organisms on this
actual earth, then extrinsic influences and obstacles are factors in
continuous diverging change.
THE BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT?

By Prof. LEONARD Hitt, F. R. 8S.
From the National Institute for Medical Research

While the heat spectrum, including infra-red, visible and ultra-
violet rays, extends from a wave-length of some 60,000 pu? to one of
100 pp, beyond the outer dark heat rays are the Hertzian waves used
in radio with wave lengths extending to a thousand meters or more.
The inner dark heat rays merge into the visible, which are wave
iengths from 700 pp (red) to 400 pu (violet). Beyond the visible
lie the invisible ultra-violet rays with wave length from 400 pp to
100 pp, and beyond these come the soft X-rays and then the hard
X-rays and the y rays of radium with wave lengths so short as
0.01 pp.

The body of a man is surrounded with a horny layer of skin
beneath which lies the living cells of the epidermis in thin layers and
myriad in number. Beneath them circulates the blood through close
woven networks of capillaries, in streams some 0.01 mm. thick. The
epidermis reflects and scatters rays which fall upon it, but some part
of the visible rays penetrate and are absorbed by the blood beneath,
warming it. The dark heat rays, on the other hand, absorbed mostly
by the epidermis, warm it more than the blood in the dermis. Set as
windows in an almost impenetrable skin, the eyes have been evolved
with extreme sensitivity to a narrow portion of the spectrum—
namely, the visible rays. To Hertzian waves we are insensitive; their
energy has to be converted into sound and heard. Likewise we can
not feel ultra-violet, X or y rays; a latent period of two or three
weeks follows exposure to X or y rays before an erythema of the
skin and irritation result. A latent period also follows exposure to
ultra-violet rays, but one limited to hours. While the hard X-rays
and y-rays and secondary rays started by these penetrate in part to
deep tissues, the active ultra-violet rays are wholly absorbed by the
epidermis and exert their effect there.

Sonne found that if dark heat rays are brought to bear on the
skin up to the just endurable sensation of burning, the temperature
just beneath the skin will be raised to about 43° C. On the other

1 Substance of two lectures given at the Royal Institution on Mar. 12 and 19; reprinted
by permission from Nature, No. 2896, vol. 115, May 2, 1925.
* up—90.000001 mm,
327
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

hand, if visible rays alone are concentrated on the skin to the just
bearable degree, the temperature just beneath the skin will be raised
even to 47° C. This result, confirmed by Argyll Campbell and L.
Hill, is due to the greater absorption of dark heat by the surface
layer of the skin and a deeper penetration of the visible rays. Sonne
ascribes heliotherapy to the local heating effect of the visible rays
and has tried to find evidence that such local heating of the blood
increases specific antibodies of the body—e. g., the diphtheria anti-
toxic content of the serum. However, P. Hartley has reinvestigated
this matter with great refinement and accuracy of method, both in
regard to the diphtheria antitoxin content of the serum and the
agglutinin content of the serum against B. typhosus, and finds that
light baths have not the least effect on such a specific immunity.
The baths have power, on the other hand, to increase the general
resistance of the body to infection, as was shown by L. Colebrook, A.
Eidinow, and L. Hill, who found that a light bath intense enough to
produce erythema put up the hemo-bactericidal power of the blood
as tested in vitro. Blood which before the bath killed say 80 per
cent of staphylococci mixed with it, two hours after a light bath
killed 100 per cent. Such an effect followed no less when a lasting
erythema was produced by exposure to heat or a mustard poultice.

In the case of the light bath the relative activity of visible and
ultra-violet rays is proved in the following way: If an arc light with
“white flame” carbon poles (direct current and about 2,500 kilo-
watts) is focussed sharply through a quartz lens on to the arm, an
unendurable burning sensation results almost at once. If the arm is
immersed in a quartz vessel full of cold water and the experiment
is repeated, no burning sensation results, but if the exposure is con-
tinued for 5 minutes, erythema develops some hours later at the ex-
posed spot, and this may advance even to a blister, to be followed by
a long, lasting, brown pigmentation. Repeating the last experiment
with a quartz screen filled with 3 per cent quinine solution inter-
posed between the are and the arm, all ultra-violet rays shorter than
330 pp are thus cut out, as can be shown by the quartz spectrograph.
In this case no erythema results even after over an hour’s exposure.
The visible rays then, apart from their heating effects, have no effect
on the skin. The ultra-violet rays, acting on the cooled skin, have,
on the other hand, a profound effect.

Using a quartz spectroscope and a blackened thermopile for meas-
uring the energy of various parts of the ultra-violet spectrum, it was
found by Hausser and Vahle that the maximal power for producing
erythema of the skin was with the wave-lengths 300-290 py, just the
region which comes through with the high sun on clear days. Little
effect was given by rays 313 pp and 250 py. <A screen of uric acid
BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT—HILL 329

(1 in 40,000 solution) in a quartz container absorbs rays shorter than
306 pw (Dhéré). The mercury-vapor lamp through this screen pro-
duces no erythema even after giving six times the erythema dose for
the unscreened lamp. Lines 275 and 257 py» of the cadmium spark
spectrum produce erythema, but not line 232 py». Such short rays
do not penetrate the horny skin but actively kill infusoria.*

How slight is the penetrating power of the ultra-violet rays is
shown by interposing in place of the quinine solution a thin film of
the horny layer of the skin taken off a blister, or the mesentery of a
rabbit. Such a film protects the skin no less that the solution of
quinine.

The active ultra-violet rays penetrate to the deeper epidermic cells
but no farther. Among these cells there takes place multiplication
and growth, formation of pigment and transition into the horny
material, whieh is pushed outwards by the growth of cells within
In these cells the ultra-violet rays provoke changes which we may
assume are similar to those which have been photographed in living
anthrax bacilli by Mr. J. E. Barnard, using a microscope with quartz
lenses and a band of ultra-violet rays from the cadmium spark.
Under the ordinary microscope they have been observed by A. Eidi-
now and L, Hill on infusoria. An increasing aggregation of parti-
cles takes place in the bioplasm; in the case of infusoria this leads
to cessation of movement, death, rupture, and setting free of the
particles. So, too, the surface film of egg white exposed in a quartz
chamber is coagulated by ultra-viclet rays. Positive particles are
dispersed and negative ones aggregated (Clark).

These rays displace electrons in atoms according to present physi-
cal theory and so alter the charge of the particles, some of which
are to be seen in bioplasm by dark ground illumination and high
microscopic magnification in active Brownian movement. This
leads to aggregation started by the displacement of electrons in
the atoms. Chemical change in molecular structure ensuing in the
epidermal cells after a latent period, reaches such an irritative na-
ture as to lead to dilatation of the subcutaneous blood vessels, exuda-
tion of lymph, increase of lymphocytes, and rise in the hxemobac-
tericidal power of the blood. In cases of rickets the abnormally
low inorganic phosphorus content of the blood which is significant
of this condition is put up also in a striking way. Subsequent to
these reactions there results desquamation, due to death of some
epidermal cells followed by pigmentation. The pigment melanin
is laid down as granules in that layer of living cells which lies close
underneath the horny layer. Melanin is stated to be formed by the
action of an oxydase in the deeper epidermic cells, as may be seen

ST am indebted to Messrs. J. E. Barnard and J. Smiles for the use of the spark.
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

in the fresh sections of skin (cut frozen) when radiated and wet
with a solution of dioxyphenylalanin; this substance is said to be
the specific precursor (Bloch). The closely allied compound, ty-
rosin, is said to diminish in amount in the blood at the time when
melanin is being formed in the skin after a light bath.

Ultra-violet rays act more quickly on warm than on cold skin.
Tested on infusoria the coefficient for temperature (for a rise from
10° C. to 20° C.) is about 2-3 (A. Eidinow and L. Hill); for the
frog’s mesentery it is less, about 1-2 (Argyll Campbell and L.
Hill). While heat of the sun may aggravate a sunburn, it is not
a necessary adjuvant. Ultra-violet radiation can intensely burn the
cooled skin; it is well known that glacier sunburns may be very
severe. Dewar killed microbes with ultra-violet rays at the tempera-
ture of liquid air.

The power behind the sun was worshipped by the heretic pharaoh,
Akhnaton, and modern science leads us back to veneration of this
power. The imagination tries to think of the infinitely intricate
energy complex which goes to form a living cell, of electrons being
displaced in atoms by ultro-violet rays, of molecular movement en-
hanced by heat rays, of radiation provoking reactions which mani-
fest themselves as life, of the spirit of man ensuing in the evolution
of energy transformations.

The law holds that absorption of rays precedes action. Rays
which pass through a cell have no action upon it at all. The skin
screens itself from excessive light by its horny layer and by pig-
ment. Pigment by absorbing visible and ultra-violet rays screens
the deeper cells and blood. It absorbs dark heat rays and con-
yerts visible rays into heat, and this heat, stimulating the nerve
endings in the skin, may reflexly lessen body heat production while
provoking sweating and dilatation of cutaneous blood vessels.

Melanin is a screen, not a sensitizer, transforming light into heat.
It is present in a fine particulate form and scatters and diffusely
reflects rays. The spectrograph shows that melanin in fine sus-
pension and thin layers screens off and greatly weakens but does
not wholly absorb the ultra-violet spectrum. This is in sharp con-
trast to a 3 per cent solution of quinine which in an equally thin
layer wholly absorbs rays shorter than 330 pp. <A layer of
sweat wetting the skin helps to reflect ight, while a layer of evapo-
rating moisture surrounding the skin helps to absorb heat rays. The
pigmented naked body with sweating skin is thus favorable to
the cooling of the native in the tropics, while clothing retards heat
loss of the white man.

By local concentration of an are light on a rabbit’s head, it is
easy to heat its fur up to 150° F. and its brain even to 107°
while with the body in the shade the rectum is only 101° I’. (Argyll
BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT—HILL 331

Campbell and L. Hill). Pith helmets prevent local heating of
the head and sunstroke in the tropics. In the West Indies, these
are not needed owing to the screening of the sun by water vapor.
There is rarely any danger of sunstroke in Great Britain. The sun
is powerful enough only on few summer days, and bare heads offer
no risks except on these rare occasions. Heatstroke from overheat-
ing of the whole body due to exhaustion of sweating in warm
stagnant air is much more common—overclothed as we are for with-
standing hot weather.

Downes and Blunt (1877) proved that the bactericidal action of
light was due to ultra-violet rays, and much has been made of this.
It has been claimed recently by Wiesner that the infra-red rays,
apart from their heating effect, have a bactericidal action, but this
is not so (A. Eidinow and L. Hill). The only rays which kill,
apart from any lethal heating effect, are the ultra-violet rays. The
bactericidal power of these rays is not nearly so important as has
been thought, for the rays can only kill the surface bacteria. They
can not penetrate into filth any more than through the epidermis.
In their curative effect on lupus these rays act, not by directly
killing the bacilli, but by increasing the immunizing powers of the
tissues. This is so, even when the rays are focussed as in the local
Finsen light treatment. Nodules so treated, when injected into
guinea pigs, produce tuberculosis.

Mr. J. E. Barnard, by photographs taken with ultra-violet rays
and a quartz-lensed microscope, has shown structures hitherto un-
revealed in living yeasts, bacteria, and blood cells. This is due
to the selective absorption by the outer membrane, the nucleus,
and certain other granules in the cells. Infusoria vary in their
susceptibility to the lethal effect of ultra-violet rays, and this prob-
ably bears a relation to the age, nutritional state, and absorptive
particles within them. The lethal power on cells increases with
shortening of the ultra-violet rays; for example, using the cadmium
spark, a 20-minute exposure sufficed to kill infusoria placed in the
275 pw» band, and a 3-minute exposure in the 232 py band. The
penetration of the shorter rays, however, is far less, and these there-
fore have no action on the skin. Thus, as stated above, while
bands 275 and 257 py» of the cadmium spark produce erythema of
the skin, the intense 232 pp band has no effect.

In the case of the very short rays, Mr. J. EK. Barnard finds one
anthrax bacillus screens another lying beneath it. With rays of
weak intensity, processes of repair may keep pace with injury, and
no effect be produced in living cells. A screen which allows ultra-
violet rays to pass so as to give an excellent spectrum, as photo-
graphically recorded by means of the quartz spectrograph, may be
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

found to reduce biological action very greatly, as is shown when the
lethal power of the screened rays is tested against that of the un-
screened on infusoria or the skin. The photographic method is so
exceedingly sensitive that deductions can not safely be drawn from
it alone.

Jt is claimed that immunity is set up in the epidermis by one
exposure to a subsequent one, and this long before pigment is
formed (Perthes). ‘Thus if an area of the skin be exposed for five
minutes and again for five minutes some hours later, and a second
area be given 10 minutes exposure all at one time, the erythema will
be much more marked in the second area. Choosing a small dose,
a second one given a few hours later increases erythema and soreness.
Maximal erythema, of course, can not be further increased by a
second dose, but this seems to be true for soreness also. The im-
munity is no doubt due to coagulation of the outer layer of living
cells, whence comes peeling. When pigmentation is still well marked
weeks after an exposure, susceptibility of the epidermis may be
shown to have returned by the erythema following a further dose
of ultra-violet rays.

To measure the therapeutic action of the ultra-violet rays we can
use the lethal dose for infusoria contained in a quartz cell at
15-20° C., or the erythema-producing dose for the skin of the
average white arm, or the rate of bleaching of a standard solution
of acetone and methylene blue. The last has been standardized
against the two former, and each degree on the scale is twice to four
times that required to produce a moderate erythema. (A. Webster,
L. Hill, and A. Eidinow.) The acetone blue solution is exposed
in a quartz tube of standard diameter, and after exposure the degree
of bleaching determined by comparison with a set of blue tubes of
depths of tint 10 to 3. The acetone solution absorbs the ultra-
violet rays shorter than 360 pp, and the chemical reaction set up in
it bleaches the blue. Observations have been taken daily with full
exposure to sun and sky at various places and show the intensity
of ultra-violet radiation in clean air and the effect of smoke and
pollution. During a fine summer day the quartz tube may have to
be changed two or three times in the day, and the highest total
reading last summer at Peppard, Oxon, equaled 23. In the Alps a
reading of 41 was obtained in one day. In dull cloudy weather of
winter the reading may be 1 or 2 and in smoke polluted towns 0.

Using in addition a clock to keep moving the quartz tube together
with a small screen to shade it from the sun but not from the sky
except that immediately round the sun,-we have found that the
total ultra-violet radiation from the sky is far more than from the
BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT—HILL 333

direct sun. Dorno at Davos showed that this was so using a cad-
mium photo-electric cell for recording the ultra-violet radiation.
Even with the sun at its zenith, the ultra-violet radiation from it is
only about 90 per cent of that from the blue sky. With the low
sun, the sky yields far the more.

Smoke pollution robs us of half or more of the ultra-violet rays.
While seeking to abolish this evil, we require to make the loss good
by the use of artificial sunlight baths. Screened as he is by window
glass, clothes, fog, and smoke, the citizen is cut off from ultra-violet
rays almost wholly in winter, and in consequence his general health
and resistance to disease goes down. ‘The evil is enhanced by indoor
life spent in heated stagnant air of rooms, and by lack of open air,
exercise, and by a diet deficient in vitamins. Thus the resistance
to catarrhal infections, which spread in the crowded stagnant air
of rooms, is lowered. Those who live open-air lives and are well
fed, exposed however much they are to weather, are far less often
attacked. .

It has already been stated that the hemobactericidal power of the
blood (as tested in vitro) is put up in an animal by an exposure to
ultra-violet radiation which is sufficient to produce erythema. It
has also been found by A. Eidinow that if a little blood is with-
drawn from an animal, irradiated by rotation in a quartz flask, and
then put back again into the animal, this puts up the hemobacteri-
cidal power, and yet the irradiated blood itself has this power
actually destroyed in itself by radiation. The putting up of the
hemobactericidal power depends on the corpuscles and not on the
serum. In man it is naturally high, and can be put up less than in
such animals as rabbits and pigs. It is known that ferments,
serums, agglutinins, and the anaphylactic power of blood are alike
destroyed by ultraviolet radiation in vitro.

Recent research on rickets has shown that the diseased calcifica-
tion of the growing bones results from a diet deficient in antirachitic
substance and lack of ultra-violet rays. If young rats are put on
a diet deficient in antirachitic substance and having a minimum of
salts of phosphorus, the latter is not absorbed from the gut. Either
the addition of antirachitic substance in cod-liver oil or ultra-violet
radiation for a few minutes a day will wholly stop rickets developing
and cause a minimal amount of phosphorus in the diet to be ab-
sorbed and utilized in bone building (A. Webster). It has been
proved that the antirachitic substance present in cod-liver oil is not
vitamin A, and that it can be put into an inactive food by ultra-
violet radiation (Hess, Steenbock). Thus, inactive linseed oil,
casein, flour, and lettuce leaves can be made effective as cod-liver oil
in preventing rickets, by rotating them in a quartz flask in front of
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

the mercury vapor lamp. Water, fat, starch, sugar, mineral oil,
glycerine, can not be so activated. Oils retain their acquired anti-
rachitic power for months. It has been claimed that “ active ”
food substance on oxidation gives off ultra-violet rays, but this is
not so. The error has arisen through the fluorescence of certain
quartz screens used in the photographic tests (A. Webster). Drum-
mond has shown that radiated cholesterol makes an extremely active
radiated rats absorb this from the skin. The antirachitic vitamine
activated by radiation this is the activated body. Probably too,
radiated rats absorb this from the skin. The antirachitic vitamine
or vitamine D is then sterol activated by radiation.

We have no evidence so far that radiation can endow an inactive
food with the growth qualities pertaining to vitamin A. If this
were possible, the margarine makers would have found a fresh source
of fortune in being able to claim that their product was made equal
to butter. Rickets can be prevented by making the diet more ade-
quate—e. g., by cod-liver oil—and also by teaching mothers the need
of exposing infants’ and children’s bodies to the sunlight and by the
use of artificial sun baths at infant welfare centers.

Prolonged exposure to intense -ultra-violet rays either of the sun
or an are light produces destruction and sloughing of the white skin.
While the visible rays, beside their heating effect, have no lethal
effect on the normal living animal cell, it is easy to produce a most
powerful effect from these rays by sensitization of the cells. Many
fluorescent dyes have this effect, eosin, erythrosin, etc., forming a
compound with the bioplasm and so making the latter absorb and
be affected by rays longer than the ultra-violet. The action of visible
rays on sensitized cells depends on the presence of oxygen.

The most interesting sensitizer is hematoporphyrin, an iron-free
derivative from hemoglobin, closely allied to phyloporphyrin, a
derivative of chlorophyll. Traces of porphyrin (uro or sterco) are
present naturally in the body and may possibly give to the skin
some very slight natural sensitivity to visible rays. An excess of
porphyrin is present in some rare individuals endowing them with
an unfortunate sensitivity which causes skin eruptions and even
ulceration of extremities on exposure to bright light—a disease
called hydroa ewstivalis, which has to be met by the greatest care
against their exposure to sunshine or bright daylight.

When the mesentery is exposed in a cool glass irrigation chamber
to concentrated visible rays of an arc, no effect results, the ultra-
violet rays being filtered off by the glass. Add now a trace of
hematoporphyrin to the bath (1 in 10,000) and in a very few
minutes stasis occurs in the blood vessels. The lymphocytes gather
BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT—HILL go

to form thrombi which block the vessels (Argyll Campbell and L.
Hill). While pigmented animals are protected, albinos made sen-
sitive by injection of hematoporphyrin die after exposure to light.
Meyer Betz was daring enough to inject some hematoporphyrin
into himself and suffered from oedema of the face and hands on
exposure to light. He remained sensitive for weeks. It seems
possible that sensitization may prove useful in light therapy, but
great caution in dosage is required. Painting patches of lupus
with glycerin and eosin has been tried so as to endeavor to secure
a greater local effect from light treatment, but definite evidence for
this has not been found (A. Eidinow and L. Hill).

Sudden exposure to ultra-violet rays stimulates to contraction
such an organ as the uterus of the guinea pig or the stomach of a
frog. The excised iris by pigment is made sensitive and contracts
on exposure to visible rays. Harmful ultra-violet rays do not pass
through the cornea and lens, and when the retina is damaged by
overexposure to an are light or to sun (as in viewing an eclipse
without smoked glasses) it is injured by excess of visible rays act-
ing on its extremely sensitive substance. The lens may be damaged
by overheating through rays entering the eye through a large solid
angle and concentrated therein. Photo-electric effect produced by rays
acting on a specific retinal substance or substances may be the first
stage in the excitation of vision. Russ has claimed that the owl’s
eye transmits ultra-violet rays. As far as concerns rays shorter
than 300 pp, this is not the case with the cat’s eye, which has good
nocturnal vision, nor with the cod’s eye, a fish which swims in dim
lights of somewhat deep water. Tested by putting the cornea in a
band of biologically active ultra-violet rays, using the cadmium
spark, none reach a fluorescent screen placed at a window
cut in the posterior part of the eye (A. Eidinow and L. Hill).

It has been suggested that there is a biological interference be-
tween infra-red, or visible rays, and ultra-violet rays. Hess found
a longer daily exposure to the mercury-vapor lamp necessary in
order to prevent rickets in young rats (fed on a deficient diet)
when a glass screen was interposed which let red and yellow rays
through as well as ultra-violet, than was the case with a glass
screen which only let ultra-violet rays through. The photographs
of the spectra of the two screens seemed to show equality of the
ultra-violet radiation, but a difference in intensity is the most
probable explanation. Pech claims that both bleaching of cotton
and production of erythema by ultra-violet rays is delayed by a
concomitant beam of infra-red rays. Infusoria seemed to move
actively longer in the light of a mercury-vapor lamp when red
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

rays were also thrown on them than without these rays. The
lethal times, however, on further trial came out to be the same in
the two cases, and further research on the circulation in the mesen-
tery and on infusoria exposed to ultra-violet bands in the cadmium
spark spectrum proved negative. Not the least evidence of inter-
ference with the lethal effect was found. (A. Eidinow and L. Hill;
Argyll Campbell and L. Hill). So, too, in the case of excitation of
involuntary muscle (Azuma and L. Hill).

Ultra-violet rays improve the growth and breeding power of
fowls. Acting directly on embryos they produce monsters. The
loss of breeding power in man and domestic animals such as cattle
is probably due largely to indoor life. It has been established by
abundant clinical experience that light treatment is excellent for
surgical tuberculosis, rickets, and wounds (O. Bernhard, Rollier,
Gauvain, and others). Trials recently made on many other diseases
have shown that we have in artificial sun treatment a powerful
stimulant to general health and in particular of the defensive
mechanism of the body against chronic infections. Skin diseases such
as psoriasis, ichthyosis, eczema, and boils, chronic anzemias of obscure
origin, nutritional weakness and wasting in infants, chronic bron-
chitis and the fat flabby condition of the sedentary over-fed middle-
aged person, chronic phthisis, the debility following actute infec-
tious disease, etc., are alike greatly benefited (A. Eidinow and L.
Hill; P. Hall, etc.). The open-air sanatorium and school have
shown how ailing feeble children can be turned into happy vigor-
ous ones.

A very great benefit to general health can at once be secured by
the installation of arc baths in schools and public baths. If in
winter all children stripped but for a loin cloth, danced to music
for 15 minutes twice a week a yard or two away from and round
a powerful are lamp—e. g., one taking 100 volts and 380 amperes
with white flame carbons—a great improvement in vigor, alert-
ness, and health would be obtained. .It is by such means that our
misty, smoky, winter climate can be immediately remedied. At the
same time, we can set about to secure and use smokeless fuel and
clean away the hideous smoke pollution of the air. We can also
set into windows and sky-lights of schools, hospitals, and nurseries
the new “ vitaglass,” which lets the ultra-violet rays through, and
use such glass for the bulbs of incandescent tungsten filament lamps,
which would then be a source of ultra-violet rays of mild intensity.

Many interesting experiments are now being carried out con-
cerning the growth of plants and fruits with and without ultra-
violet rays, and on the effect of continuous lighting.
ANIMAL LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES!

By Maj. R. W. G. HinestTon, I. M. S.
Naturalist to the Mount Everest Expedition of 1924

[With 2 plates]
(Read at the meeting of the Royal Geographical Society January 12, 1925)

This paper is a condensed account of certain observations in
natural history made while serving with the Mount Everest Expe-
dition. It refers to life on the Tibetan plateau, especially with
regard to the struggle for existence in those bare inhospitable tracts
above the limit of the Himalayan tree line.

First, a word as to physical features. Tibet is a desert, a high-
altitude mountainous desert at an elevation of about 14,000 feet.
This is a point we must thoroughly realize, for the hfe of Tibet
is in many particulars the life of a desert waste. Compare it for
a moment with a low-lying wilderness, such as the sweeps of open
sand in Arabia, Sahara, or Sind. It differs from these in one
particular: It has none of their intense heat. But otherwise Tibet
is essentially a desert—empty, bleak, and bare. As we travel across
it we see all the features of the desert, the wide tracts of brown and
barren soil, the vast distances spread out before the eye, the fierce
display of light. Here, as in the desert, we meet tracts of sand,
often loose and crumbling and at the mercy of the wind. In one
place we see how its surface is rippled, in another how it is covered
with a saline incrustation, in another how it stupifies the scapty
vegetation or piles itself into crescent dunes. Here, too, we observe
the same cloudless skies, the same glare from the plateau soil, how
the air tises in shimmering waves or clothes the surface in a true
mirage. There is the great range of temperature characteristic of
the desert, often 50 degrees between day and night. The rainfall
is scanty. The atmosphere is so dry that it splits the skin and nails,
and prevents the ordinary decomposition of flesh. Fierce winds
blow across it from the main range, and these might be compared
with the Sirocco or Shamal. Frequently they raise up vortices of
dust which career over the empty plain. As in the desert, we ob-

1 Reprinted by permission from’ The Geographical Journal, Vol. LXV, No. 3, March,
1925.

337
~38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

serve the same scantiness of vegetation, the monotonous growth
that gives no color to the landscape, the absence of trees, the thorni-
ness of the plants, the short active season in which flowers rapidly
bloom and as rapidly die away. These are some of the desert
features which we meet with in our journey through Tibet.

Let us consider the life of this high-altitude desert. How do the
creatures live? How do they protect themselves? By what means
are they adapted to the conditions of the heights?

Anyone who has traveled in a low-lying desert knows how impor-
tant is protective coloration in the general scheme of things. It is
exactly the same in Tibet. Examples are apparent on every side.
Most of the common animals of the plateau are inconspicuous against
the soil. But we must remember that the plateau is littered with
stones, and not like many low-lying deserts, an even layer of sand.
This gives an additional advantage to the animals. For not only do
their colors blend with the surface, but their shapes and outlines are
often lost to view, being confused with the scattered stones.

I will give some examples of protective color in Tibet. Every-
where on the plateau we meet with colonies of pikas, delightful
little creatures which sit near their burrows and blend with the
sandy soil. In the gorges of the main range we find another species.
Its surroundings are more gloomy; it lives amongst rocks, and in ac-
cordance with this its coat is darker so as to fit it to these special
haunts. The marmots likewise blend well with the altitudes. They
like to occupy the bare passes as high as 17,000 feet. The Tibetan
hare is a good example of harmonization, especially when it sits
amongst fallen stones. Some of the larger animals are protectively
colored. The Tibetan gazelle is the color of the plateau, and a herd
of burhel is inconspicuous against a hill.

The majority of the birds are protectively colored. The different
kinds of mountain finches, the Tibetan skylark, the short-toed lark,
the calandra lark, the Mongolian sandplover, are all colored so as to
harmonize with the soil. 'They all live on the open plateau where
there is nothing to conceal them from view. Two of the birds have
conspicuous markings, but these do not interfere with the concealing
effect. The desert chat, for example, has white patches on its wings
which disappear from view when the bird alights. The horned lark
has black markings on its neck and breast, but these are sufliciently
well concealed from a hawk or other enemy soaring overhead. The
Tibetan sand grouse is an excellent example of harmonization; so
is the magnificent Tibetan snow cock when feeding amongst the
bowlders and crags. The cliffs and torrents also provide examples.
The wall creeper lives around the fort at Shekar, and as it climbs
about the slaty rocks the color of its back blends with the stone. The
LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES—HINGSTON 339

ibis bill is a more striking instance. As it feeds amongst the bowlders
in the bed of the torrent it is lost to view in the midst of the stones.

Some of the birds are not thus protected. But in such cases they
are able to defend themselves from enemies or have special places
into which they can escape. The raven, the steppe eagle, the kite, for
example, are so powerful that they need no protection. Certain little
birds, like the sparrows and accentors, are conspicuous, but they
keep near villages or piles of stone amongst which they can escape
from birds of prey.

We see numerous examples amongst other creatures. The lizards
on the plateau are very variable in coloration. Some are uniformly
sandy, others coarsely speckled, but all harmonize with the arid soil.
There are different kinds of grasshoppers that haunt special situa-
tions. One, a large central Asian migratory species, is rich green in
color and lives in patches of fresh grass. Another, a new genus,
minute and wingless, lives on the moraines and decomposing granite
as high as 18,000 feet. It is finely mottled in grey and black, and
difficult to see because it closely resembles one of the granite flakes.
There is a third kind which keeps to tracts of coarse loose sand. In
its color scheme are patches of blue and red, and these harmonize
with similar colors in the grit. Still another kind haunts the water-
worn pebbles on the banks of the Chiblung Chu. This little grass-
hopper is a uniform blue color, and exactly the same shade as the
iayer of stones.

It would be tedious to mention all the other examples. But I must
refer to the high-altitude moths which frequent the moraines at
17,000 feet. These resemble a species of tiny Anarta. Their under
surface is very conspicuous, but is concealed when the insect alights
on the rock. Their upper surface, on the other hand, is a mottled
grey, which blends with the granite and the decomposing grit.

Thus we see how important is protective coloration in the struggle
for existence at these great heights. It is in the vast and open tracts,
the deserts, the snows, the elevated wastes, that we have this prin-
ciple most lavishly displayed. The reason for protection of this
kind is clear. In the wilderness hiding places are seldom available.
There are no trees, no scrub, no profusion of grass in which the
animals can conceal themselves when enemies approach. To avoid
destruction they must seek evasion of some sort. Their only chance
is to resemble their natural surroundings and escape by being passed
unseen. .

I pass to another problem. How do the animals of these high
altitudes adapt themselves to the physical conditions that exist?
Consider first their reaction to the wind. Tibet is notorious for its
fierce winds. The morning sun heats the surface of the plateau, the
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

hot air rises, and in order to fill the deficiency the wind sweeps down
from the main range. Near our base camp we saw an excellent
example of its force. The camp stood in a contracted gorge through
which the wind poured down from the mountain to the plain.
Round about the camp were piles of boulders which the Rongbuk
glacier had deposited in the gorge. These bowlders were remark-
ably eroded by the wind. Deep pits and furrows had been eaten
into them; they were polished, and broad grooves had been cut inte
their surface, in places an inch in depth. They were composed of
granite and recently deposited, yet from their windward side they
looked like lumps of coral while their sheltered surface was ordi-
narily smooth.

Let us see how the animals react to a wind which can eat into the
granite rock. The mammals are often clothed in thicker coats of
hair. We see this in the herds of domesticated goats, delightful
little animals with long hair that hangs down like a kilt around their
legs. The Tibetan dogs are often thickly clothed. Sometimes we
may see them in the early summer shedding large patches of winter
wool. Near Gautsa I saw pigs at 12,000 feet, and they were covered
in a thick rusty-colored hair quite different from the half-naked
animals of the plains. The Tibetan hare has a dense coat, and it
ascends to 17,000 feet. But the ordinary yak is the best example.
Next its body is a layer of wool. Over this is a hairy coat which
hangs down like an apron from its huge body, especially around its
legs. Its neck is provided with a strong mane, and behind it supports
a large tail of thick and bushy hair. When the yak is grazing we see
the value of this coat. The animals like to feed with their backs to
the wind. The thick tail then acts as a kind of wind-proof screen;
the long hair around the hind legs adds to the shield, while the head,
being kept low, is sheltered by the body and protected above by the
hairy mane.

Everywhere we see the birds adapting themselves to the wind.
The little birds escape it by getting behind obstacles. Thus we often
see the larks, the finches, the ground choughs feeding on the sheltered
side of villages and walls. When in the open they persistently face
the wind; if they stand across it they may literally be lifted off their
feet. The larger birds follow a similar habit. The choughs face
the wind when feeding on the pastures; the ravens do likewise when
scavenging for refuse; the lammergeyer always heads it when de-
scending for bones; the kites persistently come round to windward
before swooping down to take garbage from the ground. Those
birds that live around rocks and habitations creep into some shelter
when the wind blows. We see the sparrows hiding in the holes of
the houses, choughs getting into the lee of rocks, rose finches nestling
LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES—HINGSTON 341

under ledges and stones. A great number of the birds make their
nests in holes, and in this way shelter their offspring from the wind.
The mountain finches and the ground choughs place their nests in
pika burrows, often at a great depth. The magpie builds an enor-
mous nest. I think it serves the parent birds as a permanent shelter
in addition to serving as a home for the young. The birds that build
on the ground place their nests behind tufts. The short-toed lark
showed in one case an interesting modification; it built a rampart
of pebbles on the exposed side of its nest so as to protect the struc-
ture by an artificial wall.

Certain of the butterflies show interesting adaptations. The
Parnassius or Apollo butterflies are characteristic of high altitudes.
In Tibet they haunt the passes up to 17,000 feet where the wind
sweeps furiously across the range. They are capable of only feeble
flight, and are easily carried along by a gale. They escape being
swept away by their unwillingness to fly, except when the air is com-
paratively still. Moreover, when disturbed, they made but short
flights; also when they alight they choose sheltered nooks, and
their resting attitude is to spread their wings, pressing them down
close against the ground so as to offer the least resistance to the air.
Furthermore, their wings are stiff and rigid and not likely to be torn
when being battered about. Also their bodies are clothed in fur,
which must serve as a protection against both cold and wind.

The Swallowtails and Vaneside also haunt the plateau. They
used to come about our base camp at 17,000 feet. But these butterflies
are particularly powerful fliers, and by their strength alone can con-
tend with the wind. Other kinds live at slightly lower altitudes.
There is a Afelitea on the plateau which has the habits of the Apollos.
It escapes the wind in the same way by flattening itself tight against
the ground. The Lycenids like to keep in sheltered places. One
kind Bets into the tufts of vetches, another conceals itself in coarse
grass. The high-altitude moths that resemble Anarta adapt their
liabits to the fierce winds. They haunt the tracts of fallen rocks,
the bare hills, and deposits of moraine. They fly about by day,
alighting on the sand. When the wind is strong they enter clefts in
the rocks or else shelter between the stones. Their flight is swift
and of short duration. When they alight they behave like the
Apollo butterflies, flattening themselves with outstretched wings
against the rock, thus offering the smallest obstruction to the wind.

The Diptera that haunt the cliffs at 16,000 feet lke to keep close
in amongst the stones and rocks. Moreover, they make only short
quick flights. Their actions are more like the leaps of a grasshopper
than the ordinary movements of a fly. There is one kind, a Zachin7d,

76041—26——23
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

which haunts bowlders at the edge of the rivers. It has a black hairy
hody, a spined abdomen, and grayish speckled wings. Now this fly
seems almost incapable of flight, so reluctant is it to take to the air
ma wind. Its habit is to seek for shelter beneath bowlders, and,
when these are upturned, it can be taken in the fingers, allowing
itself to be captured rather than escaping by flight. There is an-
other kind of the genus Gonia which likes thorny bushes. It comes
out on sunny mornings when the air is calm. But its flights are
short, only a few feet, as if it feared to trust itself to any distance in
the air. Moreover, it strives to keep within the shelter of the scrub,
flitting about from twig to twig or coming to rest on the sand be-
neath. Thus it manages to evade the wind, partly by reason of its
short flights and partly by keeping within the scrub.

Some of the digger wasps avoid the wind in the same way. They
lave learned to keep close in amongst the bowlders, also make only
quick short flights in order to avoid being swept away. Many of the
insects on the plateau are wingless. Numbers find continual shelter
under stones. Grasshoppers ascend to 18,000 feet. But at this alti-
tude they are minute and wingless and escape the wind by their
inability to fly. The Pseudabris beetles provide an interesting ex-
ample. These beetles are conspicuous and brilliantly colored with
alternate bands of black and red. They usually hang in clusters on
the vetches, where they feed on the young shoots and flowers. Watch
them when a strong wind suddenly springs up. They let go their
hold and throw themselves to the ground. There they lie, all appar-
ently dead. Each is on its side; its head is bent at right angles to
ts body; its antenne are turned downwards; its legs are collected
into a cluster and thrust out like lifeless tags. They all lie in the
wttitude of death like a crowd of corpses strewn over the ground.
When the wind lessens they quickly revive, they run over the soil,
regain the vegetation, and climb back to their places on the vetch.

Thus we observe that the animals of high altitudes contend with
the wind in many different ways. Some grow denser coats, others
seek sheltered places, and there is a great tendency to burrow in the
soil. Certain butterflies and moths flatten themselves on the ground;
many insects make only quick short flights; certain flies keep in
amongst stones and bushes; high-altitude grasshoppers and other
kinds are wingless; certain beetles throw themselves for safety to
the ground.

Let us pass to another phase in the struggle. How do the animals
at high altitudes contend with the scarcity of food? The domestic
animals show us how severe is the struggle. It is wonderful to see a
herd of yaks grazing on the hillsides. To all appearances the moun-
LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES—-HINGSTON 3438

tain is absolutely barren, yet the animals manage to pick up some
food. When snow is on the ground they dig through it to the vege-
tation. The Tibetans said that they scraped up roots. I have seen
them eating the fresh dung of a pony which had been well fed on
grass and grain. In April, when the grass is just commencing to
appear, the sheep struggle hard to obtain food. With their fore feet
they dig into the soil and shufile aside the superficial sand in order
to get at the buried blades. When food is scarce, the ponies do like-
wise. I have seen them cutting up the ground with their hoofs in
order to expose the hidden roots. Also they wade into icy lakes,
where they feed on the water weed that grows up from beneath.
The mules and donkeys will sometimes eat quantities of yak dung,
which does not seem to do them any special harm. The pikas show
an excellent example of husbandry. They store up quantities of
seeds in their burrows to serve as a winter supply of food.

The bills of certain birds seem specially suited for penetrating
frozen soil. This is of importance for the insectivorous species,
since in winter, when the ground is hard, all insects are hibernating
underneath stones or in the superficial layer of the earth. Compare
the bill of the chough, an inhabitant of high altitudes, with that of
its allies, the rook and crow. The chough’s bill is proportionately
longer and sharper and better fitted to penetrate the frozen soil. It
is also used as a kind of lever with which the bird upturns the lumps
of dung in order to reach the good things underneath. The ground
chough is a delightful Tibetan bird of a sandy color that harmonizes
with the soil. It is about the size of a lark, but is supplied with a
iong and powerful bill, slightly curved like that of a chough. Now
this bill fulfils an important purpose. The bird is an insect feeder,
and must find great difficulty in securing food during the cold
months of the year. All insects are then in a state of hibernation.
But the ground chough can dig them from their places of retirement.
We may often see the bird boring in the soil, driving its stout bill
into the hard plateau until it finds the insects hidden underneath.
Unless it had this special instrument of excavation it could scarcely
exist through the winter months.

The larks supply another example. In India there are two kinds
of Calandra larks: One the Eastern Calandra lark, which lives on
the plains; the other the long-billed Calandra lark, which occupies
the plateau of Tibet. They are powerful birds of heavy build, and
utter a loud call note when in flight. Compare the bills of these
two species. That of the plain bird is comparatively small, about
four-fifths inch in length. That of the Tibetan bird is distinctly
longer, its Jength being 114 inches. The longer bill of the Tibetan
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

bird is explained by its environment. It ploughs into the ground
after the manner of the ground chough, hammering the surface with
its powerful bill and securing its food by boring into the soil. And
since the soil is often frozen and difficult to penetrate, this species
of the plateau must have a sharper bill than the closely allied species
of the plains.

That remarkable bird, the ibis bill, provides an excellent example
of how the bill of a bird is adapted to its method of securing food.
It is a high-altitude wader with a long hard and slender bill curved
something like that of a curlew. This bird is met with in the moun-
tain torrents that pour from Tibet into the Himalayan range. It
specially likes those places where the stream is broad and meanders
through a bed of stones. There it runs about upon the layer of
boulders, sometimes wading into the torrent up to its breast, thrust-
ing its long bill under the stones in the hope of finding insects be-
neath. Sometimes it curves its bill around the front of the stone,
sometimes inserts it from one side. The bill is an excellent instru-
ment for this purpose. Were it straight, it would not suit the round-
ness of the pebbles. The curve is a necessary feature of the
implement, and is excellently adapted to the habits of the bird, for
it is curved in such a way that it fits neatly around the boulders
when the bird is probing for food.

The peculiar environment of the Tibetan plateau has caused some
of the high-altitude birds to change their customary habits. of life.
Some kinds, owing to the absence of trees, have become almost
exclusively village birds. Thus the tree sparrow is to be found near
every habitation. The accentors, which usually haunt bushes, in
Tibet live amongst houses and in streets; also the rose finches, which
naturally like jungle, are frequently seen on the village walls. The
magpies are like house crows in the way they keep to the villages,
and, like choughs, they frequent precipitous cliffs. Many of the
wildest birds have lost their sense of fear. The ruddy sheldrake
and the bar-headed goose, which in India are amongst the most
timid of birds, in Tibet swim about the ponds near the villages as
fearlessly as in a city park. The hill pigeons fed as boldly at
our Everest base camp as if they were the tame birds in a London
street. We observe the same tameness in the case of some of the
mammals. Wild sheep, for example, are naturally very timid, yet
at the base camp they came within 20 yards of our tents, and they
are said to visit the caves in the mountains, where they take food
from the hermits’ hands. Thus we see how pliable is animal instinct.
This usual tameness must be due to the absence of persecution, and
shows that the sense of fear is not altogether innate, but is developed
as a result of persecution by man.

=,
LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES—HINGSTON 345

Certain birds of the plateau have formed communities with other
animals, this being a help to them.in securing food. The most inter-
esting of these is the mouse hare community. The mouse hares
are most engaging little animals about the size of a large rat. They
live in burrows on the open plateau, where they are usually seen feed-
ing at the entrance or running from hole to hole. A number of birds
associate with these mouse hares. Amongst them were three kinds
of mountain finches and Elwes’ horned lark. All these little birds
were remarkably tame; there was a perfect confidence between them
and the mouse hares, the whole making a charming society of pro-
tectively colored mammals and birds. What is the object of this
friendly association? It is one of the ways in which the birds of
the plateau contend with the scarcity of food. For these birds are
seed-eating species, and find special attraction near the mouse hares’
holes. The mouse hares possess an instinctive forethought. They
store up a winter supply of seeds, which they carry into their dens.
But where storage takes place there must certainly be some refuse.
Little seeds will lhe about in the vicinity of the burrows, and it is
these waste fragments that attract the birds. Very possibly the birds
also pillage the mouse hares, for we often observed them entering
the holes.

At greater heights, on the almost barren mountains, a less con-
spicuous society may occasionally be seen. This is an association of
choughs and wild sheep. The chough sits on the wild sheep’s back,
where it searches for insects in the animal’s hair. The sheep seems
pleased with the bird’s attention, and remains still while being
explored. It is an interesting association at the highest altitudes.
I have seen it on the crumbling snow-clad slopes as high as 17,000
feet. Thus the stress of food at these elevations drives certain birds
to associate with mouse hares; others to keep company with wild
sheep. The wild sheep at high altitudes are continually displacing
small rocks and stones. At different times my notice was first at-
tracted to the animals by the clatter of stones falling down the slope.
It is thus likely that these animals play no small part in the denuda-
tion of high-altitude cliffs.

I pass to another point. How do the animals escape the cold of
winter? A number, of course, migrate to lower altitudes; but of
those which remain, most go into hibernation and sleep the winter
through. When we reached the plateau, early in April, we found
it almost destitute of animal life. Kverything was hibernating
underneath stones or in clefts of the rock or in the surface earth.
The ants were hidden in subterranean galleries. Under stones were
weevils quite motionless, also carabid beetles so torpid that they
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

were scarcely able to move. We found centipedes rolled into motion-
less coils, spiders lying dormant in the interior of snail shells, ear-
wigs in a sluggish state with their antenne thrust back along their
sides. Under some stones were numbers of dead insects, as though
many had sought concealment in the autumn and died during the
winter cold.

Hibernation must be a valuable protection to the animals. At the
base camp I made an artificial burrow like that in which the pikas
are accustomed to hibernate. At a foot beneath the surface its tem-
perature was almost uniform. From 8 a. m. to 9 p. m. it remained
at 33° F., while during the same period the temperature of the air
varied through 19° F. Thus by burrowing the animals gain great
advantage. They escape extremes of temperature and find uniform
conditions. In winter they gain it even still more when they hiber-
nate in the soil under thick snow. The conditions under a stone are
also favorable for hibernation, though not to the same extent as a
burrow in the soil. At an altitude of 17,000 feet the temperature
beneath a stone varied through only 12° F. during the 24 hours. In
the same period the temperature of the air varied through 44° F.
Thus the beetles, the spiders, and many other creatures gain more
equable conditions by hibernating under stones.

The hot springs of ‘Tibet supply a place of refuge in which
animals can escape the cold. In one place we found these springs
bubbling through the soil and flowing away in warm streams. The
temperature of the water was 60° F. A varied life inhabited these
springs, chiefly crustacea and different kinds of shells. The only
snake from the Tibetan plateau that I know inhabits the hot springs.
In my original report on the fauna of the plateau mention was made
of small leeches found at a height of 16,000 feet. It was found,
however, on more careful examination, that these little animals
were in reality planarians.

In the struggle for existence at these great altitudes many animals
are driven to extreme heights. It indicates how relentless is the
force of nature to spread into every habitable corner of the earth.
The wild sheep and mountain hares struggle up the ranges even to
the barren slopes at 17,000 feet. There is a little redstart which
places its nest at the same inhospitable height. We found grass-
hoppers at 18,000 feet, near the farthest limit of vegetable growth.
We frequently saw the magnificent lammergeyer soaring round the
mountain at 20,000 feet. We found bees, moths, and butterflies at
21,000 feet, spiders at 22,000 feet, choughs at the immense height of
27,000 feet. We found traces of a permanent animal existence far
above the Himalayan snow line and 4,000 feet above the last vege-
table growth. These were small spiders, and are the highest exist-
LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES—HINGSTON 347

ing animals on the earth. They live in islands of broken rock sur-
rounded by snow and ice. There is no sign of vegetation or living
creature near them, and for food they eat one another.

Nothing illustrates better this high-altitude struggle than the
manner in which animals secure a livelihood on tracts of snow and
ice. We found an interesting fauna on the Rongbuk glacier at an
altitude of 17,000 feet. The surface of this glacier was deeply fis-
sured and to a large extent covered with broken rock. It seemed at
first sight utterly barren, yet some grass grew amongst the rocky
fragments, and patches of lichen appeared on the stones. Certain
animals found existence in this desolation. I have seen a herd of
wild sheep sitting on the glacier surrounded by pinnacles of ice and
stones. Certain birds used to frequent the icy tract. The snowcock
came down to it from the sides of the gorges, perhaps to find a little
food on the surface moraine. I saw Guldenstadt’s redstart high up
en the glacier where nothing existed but débris and ice. <A little
stint, while migrating through the gorge, halted for a rest near a
glacier pool. <A tortoise-shell butterfly was sometimes seen on the
glacier at 17,000 feet. A number of protectively colored moths used
to live on its surface moraine. Beetles and small spiders found a
shelter on it. It was the home of some minute flies. Even in the
deep blue pools on the surface of the ice some creatures managed to
secure a place. These pools were so cold that after sweeping them
with a net the gauze remained frozen into a rigid bag. Yet in
these pools were the larve of both stone flies and may flies, and
other equally delicate kinds skated on the surface of the water.

We may sum up with the impression that the struggle is fierce in
the high altitudes of the Mount Everest region. We have seen that
numbers escape death through protective coloration; that many
kinds have devices for escaping the strong winds; that at certain
seasons the struggle for food is intense; that some birds are specially
equipped to dig into the soil; that other birds are forced to change
their habits of life, and some to form communities with mammals;
that burrowing and hibernation are the great resorts by which ani-
mals escape the extreme cold; and finally that the ceaseless and
relentless competition has driven animals to extreme altitudes, where
they live above the snow line and on the surface of the glaciers in
one of the most inhospitable regions of the earth.
area ae ty

wa Siete
it eer ene
. 6 J J

ene TCR PTL! Syd ge Ra SR ET ers

. ‘ 4 L . 7 P - rere nl ihe. .
’ 5 $ » i eae atl FL i
‘ } > oes Be a * § is r 38 re le a oat P alps ia

~

%
a .

oud?
ry
b

Smithsonian Report, 1925.-—Hingston PLATE |

i ant 4 I Tirithtes reAtco «

|. ATTID SPIDER FOUND AT 22,000 FEET

2. YELLOW-BILLED CHOUGH IN BASE CAMP

3. BLUE HILL PIGEONS IN BASE CAMP
THE NEST OF THE INDIAN TAILOR BIRD

By Casry A. Woop

[With 5 plates]

Very few people have actually found a nest of Orthotomus s.
sutorius (also known as Sutorius s. sutoria)—the Indian tailor bird.
After reading one of the numerous descriptions of this wonderful
structure published any time during the past century, the impres-
sion is gained that its discovery is an everyday occurrence. Investi-
gation, however, reveals the fact that those who have lived for a long
time in a compound where these pretty little wren-like birds are seen
every day and in whose gardens they are known to breed, have never
discovered a nest or even the tree where it was built. A number of
amateur ornithologists who have studied the habits ef these birds
have told me that they failed to find the nests in spite of a careful
search for them. To emphasize this peculiarity the birds seemed
quite tame and raised one or more yearly broods under their very
eyes.

The well-known writer on natural history, Capt. W. W. A. Phil-
lips, to whom I am indebted for one of the nests figured in this
paper, writes me, “ This is the first tailor bird’s nest I have found
during a residence of nine years in Ceylon. The species is common
enough but is such an adept at concealing its nest that it is very diifi-
cult to find it. The sample I sent you was discovered only because
I observed the birds frequently in the vicinity of the bush.”

The main reason that the nest is difficult to find is that it is built
in the midst of thick foliage which is very little disturbed by the
operation of nest building. In consequence it is almost impossible to
separate, visually, the components of the nest from the surrounding
leaves. Moreover—and this is important—the leaves used by the
bird are always apposed so that only their upper surfaces are ex-
posed. There is no contrasting of upper and under surfaces to at-
tract the eye. Nor is there generally any alteration in the direction
of the leaves; if they have a natural downward disposition, the nest
is also pendent. If the foliage stands out horizontally the nest
shows the same direction. To complete this camouflage, perforation
of the leaf by the bird’s beak rarely kills it, so that there is little or
no dead foliage to indicate the probable whereabouts of the nest. A

349
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

final reason why more nests are not discovered is that they probably
do not hold together more than a few weeks after desertion by the
birds. The leaves composing the nests die and shrivel up or may fall
off. Soon the neglected cornucopia-like structure disintegrates under
the influence of wind and weather; it does not remain and become
as many nests do—for the benefit of the

visible for a year or so
collector.

The impression that the nest of the tailor bird is more common
than it really is arises in part from mistaking other structures for it.
Tor example, the ashy wren warbler, Prinia s. socialis, occasionally
builds a nest that looks like that of the tailor bird; and there are
other birds’ nests that externally resemble it. However, the struc-
ture that commonly passes for the nest of Orthotomus is a small-
sized house of the red ant, which is made of leaves whose edges are
brought together and held in place by means of glutinous silk secreted
by the ant itself. Many a time have I been shown an alleged nest
of the tailor bird which was really built by this remarkable insect.

I congratulate myself, accordingly, on having seen a recently con-
structed nest built in a tree where I could study it at my leisure. I
was spending a few days at Sigiriya, in the jungle of northeastern
Ceylon, studying the remarkable flora and fauna of that district.
The rest house where I lived had several plants flanking the front
entrance, one of them a year old Sapu (Michelia champaca) seedling
about 7 feet high, planted in that ever-useful container—a kerosene
tin. These fast-growing sapus always make effective ornamental
shrubs, with their large lanceolate leaves and sweet-scented, creamy-
white flowers. Although people constantly passed within a few feet
of the ichelia, not until the small birds were noticed flying in and
out of the foliage was it suspected that they were nest building.
One day the rest-house keeper noticed that one leaf of the small sapu
was marked with white dots and, while examining it more closely,
he saw a tailor bird fly from behind it. Having marked the exact
spot he was able to locate the nest and to watch the processes of rais-
ing the family of two small tailors. It was quite shortly after the
birds had left the nest that I saw it.

Orthotomus sutorius, which we may translate “ the straight-cutting
tailor,” loves to dwell in gardens and in the vicinity of human habi-
tations, but it is also found in the grass lands and jungle scrub of
Ceylon, Burma, and India. These lively, yellow-green, sharp-billed,
wren-like birds generally go about in pairs, building their nests
rarely more than 5 feet from the ground in trees provided with long
and rather broad leaves. The females are smaller than the males.
Both, when out of the breeding season, have short tails and present
a “bunty ” appearance, but during nidilication the male grows a re-
markably long tail which he flirts about with great effect and takes

-

NEST OF INDIAN TAILOR BIRD—WOOD 351

on all the airs and graces of the true wren, rapidly sounding his clear
double note, “ te-weet, te-weet,” so that all the world may hear.

Except as a wedding garment one can hardly understand the use
of the long tail of the male sutorius, especially as he is a good hus-
band and takes a great interest in the raising of the family. When
it is his turn to sit on, or in, the pocket-like nest he presents a most
curious appearance; his long tail must perforce be applied all along
his back so that it and his beak almost meet, surely an uncomfortable
position for a long siesta.

When she (because only the female bird constructs the nest) can
find them, the tailor bird prefers certain favorite trees for building
her nest. Among these is the so-called lettuce tree, Pesonia alba,
from the appearance of its pale yellow foliage and because the leaves
are sometimes used as a salad. This is a small evergreen from 25 to
30 feet high. Draccena and other umbrageous trees are also utilized.

If the tree chosen has very long and large leaves the bird may be
satisfied with a single leaf, or at most two leaves; if the leaves are
of medium size or small a larger number are sewn or riveted together.

Dewar, in his work on Birds of the Indian Plains, details the con-
struction of a nest by the tailor bird from a single leaf, as witnessed
by Mr. A. G. Pinto. Some of the operations he describes are quite
apparent in the Sigiriya nest, some are not.

The first thing she did was to make with her sharp little beak a number of
punctures along eich edge of the leaf. Having thus prepared the leaf, she
disappeared for a little and returned with a strand of cobweb. One end of
this she wound round the harrow part of the leaf that separated one of the
punctures from the edge; having done this, she carried the loose end of the
strand across the under surface of the leaf to a puncture on the opposite side,
where she attached it to the leaf, and thus drew the edges a little way to-
gether. She then proceeded to connect most of the other punctures with those
opposite them, so that the leaf took the form of a tunnel converging to a
point. The under surface of the leaf formed the roof and sides of the tunnel
or arch. There was no floor to this, since the edges of the leaf did not meet
below, the gap between them being bridged by strands of cobweb.

When lining the nest, the bird made a number of punctures in the body of
the leaf, through which she poked the lining with her beak, the object being to
keep the lining in situ. All this time the margins of the leaf that formed the
nest had been held together by the thinnest strands of cobweb, and it is a
mystery how these can have stood the strain. However, before the lining was
completed, the bird proceeded to strengthen them by connecting the punctures
on opposite edges of the leaf with threads of cotton. Her modus operandi was
to push one end of a thread through a puncture on the opposite edge of the
leaf. The cotton used is soft and frays easily, so that the part of it forced
through a tiny aperture issues as a fluffy knob, which looks like a knot and
is usually taken as such. As a matter of fact, the bird makes no knots; she
merely forces a portion of the cotton strand through a puncture, and the
silicon of the leaf catches the strands of cotton and prevents them from
slipping. Sometimes the cotton threads are long enough to admit of their
being passed to and fro, in which case the bird uses the full length.
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

I may say, in passing, that I have never known the tailor bird—
unlike the architect of the quite as wonderful weaver bird’s nest—to
breed in captivity, or to make a good cage or aviary pet.

To return to my treasure trove—the nest at Sigiriya—it occupied
a position in the very center of the Sapu, 414 feet from the ground.
It was made of three long, lanceolate, horizontally-placed leaves,
measuring respectively 12 by 3 inches, 13 by 314 inches, and 1214 by
3 inches. It measured quite 3 inches at the widest and 21% at the
narrowest diameter. The whole nest took the form of an irregular
cornucopia. The cup cavity was lined more or less completely for a
distance of 714 inches from the tip, thus leaving about 2 inches to
the free edge of the horn. The lining of the nest varied in thickness,
but was quite half an inch in some sectors of the cornucopia. ‘The
material used in upholstering the nest was mostly the cotton-like
material taken from a neighboring species of Kuphorbia, whose seeds
are provided with a closed umbrella-like tuft of soft, shiny fibers.
There were in addition a few threads, some dried grass, coconut
fibers (probably from the house mats), two small feathers, and some
black hairs. The last named were probably from bullocks as no
horse had been seen in Sigiriya for over a year. ‘There was also
among the lining materials some kapok, or native tree cottons, the
silk cotton tree (Ceiba pentandra) and red cotton tree (Lombax
malabaricum). Both those flosses were available in the neighbor-
hood and are much used by birds for lining nests.

The solidarity of the nest as a whole was increased by the « arrange-
ment of the fibrous material in the lining, the coconut fibers, dried
grass, and feathers being interwoven to form rings or Bose that
ran around and were fitted into the interior of the cornucopia, the
cotton floss lining the cup cavity and padding the space below it.

Most writers on the subject speak of the act of sewing as the chief
means employed by the tailor bird on the leaves that cover her nest,
but there were (as will be seen) but few signs of this method in
the Sigiriya nest. Close investigation of the free end of the leaf
pocket shows that a shred of fiber from the cotton mass had been
drawn through each of the small marginal openings and that these
strands had spread out as dot-like buttons on the exterior of the leaf,
preventing*the cotton from slipping back. In this way the margins
of the leaf had been drawn together by a sort of cross-riveting, that
also welded leaf edges, nest lining, and the cotton mass together as
one whole. The same process is seen all over the outer surface of
the joined leaves.

The bird makes with her 34-inch bill a puncture in the leaf, grasps
a strand of nest lining, pulls it out through the small opening until
the mass of which it forms a part is firmly drawn against the inner
surface of the leaf. The external cotton then expands and forms a
NEST OF INDIAN TAILOR BIRD—WOOD gos

minute button that effectively holds the leaf and nest contents in
close apposition. When the riveting has been repeated, as in 75
places on the Sigiriya nest, it holds firmly. In this nest the Euphor-
bia cotton made excellent rivets for holding the leaves in position.

The Euphorbia pod is filled with seeds attached to a small plume
of compressed floss. When the seed is detached there remains a
minute umbilicus that holds the cotton fibers together. It was fre-
quently this coherent plume whose seed the bird pulled—end on—
through the opening made in the leaf. Once through the aperture
it expanded and held in place the remainder of the cotton, with its
attachments to the nest lining.

If we number the three leaves that formed the casing of the nest,
leaf I had by careful count 20 holes through which a tuft of cotton
had been drawn, while 9 had been unused. Leaf IJ had 25 filled
and 9 unoccupied perforations; while leaf III had no less than 31
filled and 14 empty holes.

Where the leaf edges touched, the perforations, both filled and un-
filled were placed a quarter of an inch apart. These marginal holes
were more numerous, as in the body of the leaf, on leaf II and leaf
IIT, the latter showing 8 filled and 5 empty perforations, while the
former had 5 occupied and 8 unoccupied.

It may be said in explanation of the manner in which the female
tailor fashions her nest that there are four distinct processes em-
ployed in binding together leaves and nest—sewing, rivetting, lacing,
and matting.

The nearest approach to sewing occurred in three or four instances
when the out-drawn strand was not that nearest the perforation but
was seized beneath the farther leaf and riveted into the neighboring
leaf. Such an arrangement gave the appearance of stitching the
edge of one leaf to the margin of the other. This appearance may
be seen in one of the photographs.

In one of the earliest descriptions given of the tailor bird’s nest,
Jerdon, a most acute and careful observer, says the bird makes a
knot in the silk or cotton to keep it in place. Now, the most minute
survey of the external surface of the three leaves fails to show the
slightest approach to such a device, and it may be added that the
expanded, button-like process in the instances described seemed to an-
chor the nest mass as effectually asif it had been tied in a regular knot.

The second nest of the tailor bird was made from a single leaf.
This was the one presented to me by Captain Phillips, of Kitulgala,
Ceylon, August 1, 1925. He found it, June, 1925, in the middle of
a croton bush, 3 feet from the ground. It is evidently an unfinished
nest and in early stages of construction, but shows very plainly the
processes commonly employed in nest building. The leaf itself is
814 inches long and 8 inches at its widest part. The interior
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

measures 214 inches in diameter at the rim, tapering to the end so
that the length of the unoccupied cup is about 6 inches. It was
built in one of the large, broad, yellow-blotched, cordate leaves of
the parasitic creeper, Pothos aureus, or “Colombo agent.” This
epiphyte was introduced from the Solomon Islands and is now quite
a common plant in Ceylon.

As shown in the photograph, the bird has made 16 perforations
on the edge of the left half of the leaf, none of them more than one-
quarter of an inch from the margin; there are 17 holes on the other
edge. ‘These openings were placed within 414 inches of the edge on
both sides—leaving free borders above and below. As shown by a
powerful glass, about one-half the perforations on either side are
occupied by threads of various sorts. From above downward three
perforations on one side and four on the other were drawn together
by a single fine fiber that was firmly attached to the leaf margin by
winding it around the free border of the leaf. The very thin thread
at first appeared to be spider’s silk, but a close examination by means
of the lens and a dissecting needle proved it to be a much stronger
fiber—like that of an agave or a disintegrated ceconut fiber. This
web-like thread was then passed five times across the interval in the
upper borders of the apposed leaf edges, and firmly anchored at
the four openings by winding it in and out around the leafy bridge
made by the perforation near the leaf margin. To consolidate this
part of the interlacing a sliver of dried grass was worked in (see
the photo) across the intermarginal opening.

At this point the two leaf edges overlap, and the next four open-
ings are superimposed so as to allow the passage of small shreds
of cotton, pulled through both holes and tufted down. Several grass
and other coarse fibers were now placed beneath the overlapping leaf
edge, and through two perforations in the latter are run strong
threads that pass through the minute bundle of fibers to the opposite
openings and back again—a combination of stitching and lacing.

The last two holes are held in apposition with the margins of the
corresponding leaf edges by threads that were evidently drawn
taut by a sort of pulley-like motion so that this apposition of the
edges is as firm as any part of the stitching.

Constructed in this fashion the infolded leaf presents a remark-
ably regular horn of plenty with its rounded, outer surface pre-
sented to the observer, and showing no trace of tailoring that had
gone on in the unexposed margins.

Captain Phillips thinks that occasionally these incomplete struc-
tures do not pass beyond the stage of invagination, but that the
infolded leaf is used as a shelter for the bird awaiting his or her turn
to occupy the near-by nest, just as some observers believe the weaver
bird uses his “ canopy ” for the same purpose.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Wood PLATE |

eee tt

Se, ln pc el see a

TAILOR BIRD'S Nest AS IT APPEARED IN THE MIDST OF FOLIAGE
eport, 1925.—Wood PLATE 2

TAILOR BIRD'S NEST, WITH THE SURROUNDING LEAVES REMOVED
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Wood PLATE 3

PHOTOGRAPH OF A TAILOR BIRD’S NEST, TO SHOW THE METHOD OF RIVET-
ING THE LEAVES TO THE NEST LINING
09)
C
D
oO
=
ct
Ve)
No
won
|

=
{e)
oO
Q

PLATE 4

TAILOR BIRD'S NEST, SHOWING THE LINING OF COTTON, ETC.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Wood PLATE 5
Sea te

TAILOR BiRD’s NEST MADE FROM A SINGLE LEAF. NOTE THE SEWING
AND LACING
THE NEEDS OF THE WORLD AS TO ENTOMOLOGY ?

By L. O. Howarp

T have chosen an ambitious and rather sweeping title for this
address. It would make a good title for a book. I may possibly use
it as a title for a book I have been preparing for some time. It will
serve my present purpose, however, to head some thoughts that have
come to me after about 60 years of greater or Jess attention to insects.

Not so many years ago this would have been considered a mixed
audience, an audience surely at one in that all are interested in ento-
mology, yet mixed since it contains iny.stigators whose sole aim is
apparently the study of this vast assemblage of extraordinary forms
of life in some one or several of its aspects from that ennobled curi-
osity which lies at the bottom of so much valuable scientific re-
search—the effort to answer the continual questions “why” and
“how ”—and since it contains also investigators who are striving to
overcome the agencies which are destroying many of the vital needs
of the human species.

But now it is coming fully to be recognized by all of us who are
working with imsects that, while the man who is trying to supply
immediate relief from great loss by the most ¢mmediate measures
is the man for the immediate emergency, every man who studies
‘insects and who records his results is doing greatly needed work and
work that sooner or later will help to lead to a close understanding
of insect life which may bring about its control by man.

I will not speak here of the rapidly increasing appreciation by
the intelligent part of the public of the tremendous importance of
entomological work; but of another fact, which is that, in spite of
the good we have done and are now doing, month by month the
insect problem becomes more serious. It is far more serious to-day
than it was 20 years ago, although the workers in economic ento-
mology have doubled in that time and the money expended in
entomological investigations has probably trebled. It is enormously
more serious than it was 50 years ago when a mere handful of men
were laying the groundwork for our rapidly growing structure.

1 Annual Address before the Entomological Society of America, Washington, December
31, 1924. Reprinted by permission from Annals of the Entomological Society of America,
Vol. XVIII, No. 1, March, 1925.

355
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

This may look to the carper or to one who loves to chaff his ento-
mologist friends as a possible case of cause and effect—the more
entomologists, the more insects and insect damage! But to the
knowing mind it is perfectly obvious that, just at the time when the
crisis of overpopulation of the earth is approaching, just at the time
when the total human food supply must rapidly be increased, the
multiplication of injurious insects is helped in a way by the very
methods man has adopted in his civilized life!

Instance after instance in illustration of this fact will occur to
you. Let us look at the cotton boll weevil. Here is a species that
gradually developed its close adaptations to cotton in Central
America where the cotton tree grows wild. It was a nearly unknown
creature of slight economic importance. Brought by accident across
the Rio Grande at Brownsville, and then more or less by accident
to Alice, it found itself in a boll weevil heaven—a whole State
growing its favorite food, and growing it in just the way to make
life a delight, in just the way to promote to the utmost limit its
extraordinary powers of multiplication, and so its enormous pro-
gressive spread until now the whole vast Cotton Belt is occupied.
Incidentally it may be said that all this might have been prevented
had the advice of entomologists been followed in the beginning, and
that at a later date the spread might greatly have been retarded
and the damage very greatly lessened had the Southern cotton
planters generally heeded the advice of the experts.

This will answer as an illustration in regard to agriculture.
With regard to human health the same conditions hold. For ex-
ample, it may be shown that the advance of civilization in a new ,
country at first reduces malaria, by the drainage of swamp areas
and the reclaiming of moist “bad lands” for agriculture, only to
be followed, as the country becomes densely settled, by the reap-
pearance of malaria, since man has made new and even better
breeding places for the malarial mosquitoes than were the old
swamps: the making of milldams, of stone quarries, the stopping
of extremely small streams of running water by railway embank-
ments, the digging of borrow pits, the accumulation of old tin cans
and disused vessels of one sort or another about towns, even the
footprints of cattle in soil that is not too dry, especially during a
rainy season, and in countless other ways, such as water troughs for
cattle, small ornamental ponds for aquatic plants, the water recep-
tacles for grindstones, poorly-protected cesspools, imperfectly-
covered water tanks, the catch basins of sewer systems, the badly-
cared-for roof troughs of houses and barns, even the perfected and
up-to-date water-closets in houses temporarily vacated, and so on
and so on.
ENTOMOLOGY—HOWARD ‘ 357

Attention has often been called to the increasing spread of in-
jurious insects from country to country by the rapidly increasing
speed of ocean voyages. Our latter-day Japanese beetle and Euro-
pean corn borer inspectors appreciate as can no one else how the
hundreds of thousands of automobiles and our greatly improved
roads help the spread of these and many other pests. As early as
the peace conference at Portsmouth at the close of the Russo-
Japanese War, when thousands of vehicles from regions infested
by the gipsy and brown-tail moths brought their loads of sightseers
to Portsmouth, there resulted an immediate extension of the range
of these imported pests. And when T. Chalmers Mitchell and his
companions attempted to fly from Cairo to the Cape a few years
ago, the possibilities of the airplane as a spreader of insects was
demonstrated, as I heard Mitchell state at a meeting of the
Zoological Society of London in 1920.

So what is termed “advancing civilization” is not only encour-
aging insects to multiply almost beyond bounds, but it is facilitating
and hastening their spread in many ways.

In the face of all this, what we have done and what we are doing,
much as we have accomplished, especially during the past 20 years,
is a trifle—a comparatively insignificant series of things done and
learned compared to what we have stil! to do and to learn.

In the first place we must have the public behind us. The public
must be made to appreciate the fact that it is a vital necessity to the
future of humanity that we should learn everything about insects;
that keen and highly trained men should be studying every aspect
of insect life, and that chemists, engineers, plant physiologists, bac-
teriologists, and scientific men of many specialties must be called in.
They must learn that the study of no aspect of insect life is a trivial
pursuit, as their fathers thought, and they must learn that the ento-
mologists are the men on whom the world must depend for much of
its future prosperity.

This education of the public is going on rapidly, but we must
help to speed it up. A number of strong writers in the newspapers
and in the magazines have found the topic attractive and interesting.
Many of us have grasped opportunities to address lay audiences of
all kinds on the general subject, and all of us who can speak more
or less forcefully in public must never lose a chance to drive this
particular lesson home.

Incidentally there is an enormous opportunity in the teachers’
colleges, in the great summer sessions of such institutions as the
Teachers College of Columbia University in New York, for example,
where 12,000 teachers from all over the United States come together

76041—26——24
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

hungering for information to take back to their hundreds of thou-
sands of pupils everywhere.

Many of you may have noticed that a committee “on the place
of the sciences in education ” has been constituted by the American
Association for the Advancement of Science. This committee in-
cludes representatives of high schools as well as of universities and
others. There is a place under this committee for the consideration
of secondary school science. In an article by Dr. O. W. Caldwell,
in the journal Science for December 12 last, there is much informa-
tion regarding the teaching of science. <A significant table, for
example, is given of the distribution of over 47,000 high school
pupils in Washington in the different subjects in which they were
enrolled. Of a total of 6,332 in science, 1,061 were enrolled in
zoology. Here, obviously, is an opportunity for the stressing of
the duty of teachers to include work in entomology, and the repre-
sentative committee in charge of this subject should add an ento-
mologist to its members as a preliminary step to the securing, not
only in high schools, but in secondary schools as well, of such in-
struction in entomology as will arouse the interest of boys and girls
in entomology and make them realize its enormous importance.

I am perfectly aware that what I have just said may sound as
though it were intended for economic entomologists only, but I
must emphasize again and again that there is no entomologist,
whatever his line of work, who is not concerned and who is not
helping very greatly.

Next to the education of the public, the number of workers must
very greatly be increased ; and public education will undoubtedly lead
to this increase, since, by the stimulation of the interest of the people,
the minds of capable young men and young women will be open to
the call for service, funds will come from legislative podies, and
the way will be opened.

With the education of the public should come (and I hope it will)
a great increase in the number of so-called amateur entomologists.
We all know that men of this class have done magnificent work in
the past; that in fact they did the bulk of the work down to compara-
tively recent years, and that they still constitute a very large per-
centage of the numbers of most of the great entomological societies.

How many so-called entomologists are there now? It is difficult
to say. In the last edition of Cattell’s “American Men of Science ”
there are approximately 9,500 names. Of these, 217 are recorded as
entomologists. I have recently estimated the number of members of
the large publishing entomological societies of the world and find
that they probably reach over 6,000 and of these more than 2,000
are American. This latter number must be reduced, however, on
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD 359

account of the fact that so many individuals belong to two or more
of our societies—notably the Entomological Society of America
and the American Association of Economic Entomologists. In the
1924 edition of Cassino’s Naturalists’ Directory, which includes all
kinds of collectors, teachers, and so on, there are approximately
4,450 names. I have checked the names of those indicating any in-
terest in entomology and they number 923.

But this stimulation of popular interest must go farther than the
man in the street—the average citizen; it must uncloister our schools
and colleges, not alone the minds of the students, but especially the
minds of the teachers. The insect complex should receive the prime
attention of a vastly greater body of trained research men in the
universities.

In my presidential address before the American Association for
the Advancement of Science in December, 1921, I stated that I had
examined the titles of theses for doctorates in American universities
for the preceding eight years and found that only a very small per-
centage of the output “represents work which can be of the slightest
use to humanity in its immediate problem regarding the insect world,
and, even those which may prove of use, bear some evidence that
the lines of study had already been adopted by students who used
them incidentally to gain their degrees and were not suggested by
their teachers as promising lines leading toward some great prac-
tical outcome.”

I have recently examined the titles for theses for the doctorate
degree in American universities for 1922, and find that of 442 such
theses 39 concern zoology. Of these 39, 19 were concerned with
insects, which is apparently an improvement on the earlier situation ;
but of these, 5 were papers on genetics m which Drosophila was
used, and only 6 of them had any apparent economic bearing. The
other 8, however, represented good, sound work, and the results of
the investigations on which they were based undoubtedly will help
in our broad aim to understand the insect class.

Dissatisfied as I am with this small proportion among the zoolog-
ical theses, I am naturally equally disappointed in the small pro-
portion of theses that concern any aspect of zoology, and I am
disappointed at the small number of all of the theses for doctorates.
The time is coming—and we must do all that we can to hasten it—
when not only will research students be at work in our universities
in much greater numbers, but when those applying themselves to
entomological subjects will be multiplied many times.

In this broader training of the coming workers in entomology
the latest conceptions in biology and the latest methods will become
known to them and will influence their work. We see this coming
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

rapidly to-day. The mathematical trend in biological work has not
been sufficiently noted by many entomologists. We can not afford to
neglect this movement. If we do neglect it we will lose the signifi-
cance of much of the research literature of biology, and in our own
work will lose the good to be gained from these mathematical]
methods.

This has naturally led up beyond the discussion of the needed in-
crease in numbers among the entomologists into the need for
broader and sounder training. And this in turn will lead us to a
consideration of the direction of this research training and the
vast opportunities which exist for the most important research.
To do this properly we must know comprehensively where we
stand to-day.

In morphology we are most fortunate at this present moment
to have at hand (only a month from the press) that magnificent
“JIntroduction to Entomology” by Comstock, its thousand pages
displaying this side of entomological accomplishment to date, the
result of long years of close and careful work by a great student
end teacher.

T have used the term “morphology,” in referring to this great
work, as including external and internal anatomy and taxonomy.
Physiological information occurs frequently in the consideration
of anatomical points, and embryological data are touched upon here
and there. In the consideration of metamorphoses also the treat-
ment is broad beyond the usual understanding of the term “ morph-
ology;” and habits, behavior, life history data, and points suggest-
ing ecological work are touched all through the bulk of the book.
So in a big way this “Introduction” is much more than an intro-
duction to entomology; it is an introduction to the new entomology
that is to come. We may take it as a starting point from which to
proceed, just as the older entomologists took Westwood’s famous
“ Introduction ” and, later, Sharp’s “Insecta,” and as the men of
the generation of Walsh and Riley and Thomas and Le Baron
took the classic “Insects Injurious to Vegetation” by our own
Thaddeus William Harris.

Before leaving the subject of morphology, attention should be
called to the advanced and most competent work of Snodgrass,
some of which is already available and much more will soon be
available. Comstock’s mention of the work of this gifted ento-
mologist, on page 205 of the new “Introduction,” is a deserved and
gracious act of the veteran.

I think that the subject that has been most in the minds of
many of us in recent years has been insect physiology. After scores
of years of work by brilliant men, our knowledge of the physiology
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD 361

of the human species still has many gaps. How much more, there-
fore, with its pitifully small number of workers, is there to be
learned about insect physiology! Fundamentally radically dif-
ferent from the vertebrate structurally, how importantly must their
physiology differ! And upon their physiology as greatly as upon
their structure must their behavior depend. In the main, we know
what they do only as it affects our interests. We must know every-
thing that they do and why and how they do it. Here physiology
is basic. To understand their reactions, to be able intelligently
to explain their tropisms, we must know how they direct their
movements, how they communicate, how they hear, how they see,
how they digest their food, and the scores of other things upon
which a complete knowledge of their physiology would throw
light.

I think it is quite certain that this is the largest as it is surely
the most important of the comparatively unexplored fields in en-
tomology. What information there is exists in scattered papers
in many languages, and many of the investigations in so-called
physiology are really little more than studies of internal anatomy
in which the histology of organs is considered from a more or less
comparative point of view. Enlghtening work has been done on
the structure of the sense organs, notably that of McIndoo on the
olfactory organs of insects of several different orders. But phys-
iology in general from its experimental and chemical aspects has
hardly been touched. Such studies as have been made are not as-
sembled so that we can readily know where we stand. Although
the first part of Packard’s text book is entitled “ Morphology and
Physiology,” and covers over 500 pages, it is almost wholly anatomi-
cal, and it is 26 years old.

One of the greatest and most important fields in human phys-
iology and in that of domestic animals, and one which is being
most intensively worked, is that of nutrition. What do we know
about the food elements necessary to insects? And just how is
this food utilized? Here is a field which is crying for investigation
by the best trained men, using the most advanced methods and
able, in fact, to invent new methods—men of the genius of Krogh,
of Denmark, for example.

As already indicated, upon our knowledge of the physiology of
insects must depend our understanding of their tropisms, and upon
a clear understanding of these tropisms will depend many of our
future methods of warfare.

When we speak of tropisms and behavior we are touching upon
what stands for psychology with insects. Recently, in the World
War, we have had a striking example of the enormous handicap to
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

a battling nation of a lack of understanding of the psychology ol
its antagonists. It is a far cry from the varying psychology of the
different races of human beings to the vastly different psychology of
insects. But how important it is to attempt at least to understand
such psychology as they possess, and how little do we know about it
now! But we have a beginning, Bouvier’s admirable “La Vie
psychique des Insectes” brings together what we know now, and
therefore forms a starting point for experimental work and study
which may lead to important results.

The psychology of insects, of course, brings us at once to the
disputed borderland of instinct and intelligence. We are none of
us ready to adopt Ferenczy’s classificatory name for the human
species (Homo immoralis semisapiens) as contrasted with his ant
name (Formica sapiens diligens), nor do we misunderstand
Wheeler’s exquisite satire on human society which he entitled “ Ter-
mitodoxa,” but, for want of a better name, we may call psychological
a lot of insect phenomena which need investigation.

Insects are controlled by nature very much better and more
effectively than by man himself—assuming that man’s efforts are
not a part of nature (as they surely are, since man is a true ecological
factor). Many more insects are destroyed by their parasites of dif-
ferent kinds and by their other natural enemies than are destroyed
by man. In fact, man has really been making things easy for the
insects—he has been facilitating the multiplication and spread of
his own worst enemies, and at the same time he has been groaning
and complaining and suffering from the effects of his own stupidity.

The trite words “ going back to nature” have an especial signifi-
-ance in this connection. We can not go back to nature, in a way,
if we wish to preserve our rank as the dominant species and still
keep on increasing all the time. We must continue to “upset the
balance ” and keep on upsetting it more and more if we are to feed
our increasing millions. We must control all possible food resources.
But we must get back to nature in so far that we must study all these
natural control factors as they affect antagonistic species, and we
must utilize them.

But to utilize them we must first understand them, and the word
“understand” does not mean half knowledge. Generalizations are
nowhere more dangerous than here. I have been studying some of
the smaller aspects of this subject for more than 40 years, and I have
seen my imagined or expressed generalizations fall by the dozen
through the work of keen-eyed and competent younger observers.
And yet the enormous complex of interacting organisms, really fight-
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD 363

ing desperately among themselves, is only just becoming apparent,
and offers a field for many keen workers for many years to come.

And it is a field of very great promise. It is one of the fundamentals.
The complexity of the problem is growing on us. What we once

thought simple becomes the more involved the deeper we go into the
subject. But these very complications as they arise should only
render the subject the more attractive to the truly scientific mind.
Nowhere do we run up against a stone wall; but the more we observe
and the more we study, the more the field opens before us and the
closer we come to a true understanding of relations and the more
apt we will be to find principles and ideas that will be of value from
the human standpoint.

Insects are a healthy race. They have in these: 50,000,000 years
bred out the unfit. And their very prolificacy more than compen-
sates for the losses caused by occasional epidemics. But in the study
of natural control, insect pathology, a largely neglected field, must
have more workers. We must know here, just as in every other
possible line of insect research, every fact that can be ascertained.
Of course, the insect pathologist will be working for an end
diametrically opposed to that of the human pathologist, but the basic
technique of the latter will help the former, and the causative
organisms of disease have a certain zoological or botanical grouping
which will render the work of both groups of pathologists at least
comparable. ‘There are great gaps to be filled in our knowledge of
the forms of parasitism in which protozoa, bacteria, fungi, helminths,
and filterable viruses are concerned.

In this direction the work of Pasteur on pebrine stands out, and
the results of subsequent investigations of this disease have been
incorporated in a number of papers, especially by Italian investi-
gators. The diseases of bees have been investigated by our own
G. F. White and A. P. Sturtevant; and Burri, of Switzerland,
Bahr, of Denmark, and Maassen, Bochert, and Zander, of Germany,
have contributed to the study of bee diseases. Kudo, of Japan,
has worked upon the protozoa of insects, and a number of medical
investigators have been led to study the microorganisms in the diges-
tive tracts of insects that. bite man.

Paillot, of France, is making profound studies of the micro-
organism fauna of the insect body. Metalnikov, of the Pasteur
Institute in Paris, has been working on the blood of insects and
making studies relative to the problem of immunity, using largely
the larve of the wax moth. Rudolph Glaser and G. F. White, of
the United States, are studying the pathology of insects.
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Nearly all of these workers, however, have spent only a portion
of their time upon such studies and have each contributed only a
few papers. Systematic, consecutive, well-planned work by many
men, perhaps in cooperation, must be brought about.

From the fact that certain disease organisms inhabit both insects
and warm-blooded animals and that with some of them this dual
host relation is a necessity in their lives, we are led to the subject
of medical entomology.

It seems to me that no wise man can for an instant believe that
medical entomology has passed its infancy. To all intents and
purposes this branch of knowledge was first opened ‘up less than
30 years ago. Its increase has been dramatic. Three years ago,
at the invitation of the president of the American Public Health
Association, I wrote the “Sketch History of Medical Entomology.”
It was a subject with which I had been connected since its begin-
ning. It was a subject of vital interest. Discovery had followed
discovery with such rapidity and the results which followed these
discoveries were of such enormous importance to humanity that the
story fairly wrote itself. The subject has developed so rapidly and
has spread out in so many directions that it invites and in fact
demands the keen attention of many workers.

It is true that most of the main discoveries have been made by
medical men, but all future work demands the intimate cooperation
of pathologists and entomologists. The control of an inseet-borne
disease, whether of man or domestic animals or cultivated plants,
means primarily the control of the vector; and who so competent
to investigate the possibilities in that direction as the man trained
in economic entomology ?

Not so many months ago, traveling for a day or two in the com-
pany of the principal officer of one of the great medical research
institutions, I suggested to him that a well-equipped service should
be started, preferably at some great scientific center, where the
intimate biology of all insects known to be carriers of disease should
be investigated by competent men, untrammeled in their work and
assisted to the limit of their necessities in a financial way; that these
men should include in their investigations not only all known vectors
but all of the close relatives of such species. I am sure that my
suggestion was sound; that the establishment of such a laboratory
or series of laboratories is a great desideratum; that the results to
be gained by such work could not fail to be of very great benefit ;
and I, therefore, advanced the project with some assurance. To my
disappointment, however, it was received with an interest which was
obviously only a matter of courtesy, and I dropped the subject in
discouragement. But why should not such a plan be pushed? Let
ENTOMOLOGY—HOWARD 365

some man yet in his forties draw up a scheme in as much detail as
possible; let him consult with his wisest associates; let him look
over the field with a prophetic eye; and then push the plan with
an enthusiasm and energy which belongs rather to the fourth de-
cade of life than to the sixth (now occupied by the writer). Of
course, it is quite possible that this idea may not be adopted, but
in the very outlining of the plan it will be necessary to bring to-
gether all the sidelights with the main idea, and out of it will come
unquestionably a stimulation to research of the broadest kind in this
vital direction.

And now we come to ecology. Originating as a name not so long
ago among the botanists, this term has broadened in its significance
to include certain aspects of the whole biological field.

In his masterly address delivered before this society in 1915 en-
titled, “ The Ecological Foundation of Applied Entomology,” that
deep and sound thinker, that broad naturalist, that man whom this
society and our sister societies have been proud to honor as the dean
of the economic entomologists of America, Dr. S. A. Forbes, pointed
out in his clear and forceful way that nowhere does the broadening
of biological studies into the field of what is now termed “ ecology ”
promise better results or greater opportunities than in applied ento-
mology. In fact, he says, “The economic entomologist is an ecolo-
gist pure and simple—whether he calls himself so or not yt ee
This wonderful address and the contemporaneous and subsequent
writings of Shelford and others have opened the eyes of many work-
ers—in fact, have made many productive workers—and all leaders
of main projects having insect control in mind are now looking upon
their problems with ecological eyes.

The revolution which has come is well illustrated, for example, in
the October, last, number of the Canadian Entomologist, where the
leading article, by W. C. Cook, tells of a study of the noctuid moths
caught at light at Bozeman, Mont., in 1919 by K. M. King and in
1923 by himself. Even a dozen years ago the moths so caught, if
they were good specimens, would have been pinned, identified, and
put in the college collection or in a private collection, accurately
labeled, of course, with date and locality, and there the matter would
have rested. But with our present growing knowledge of the fac-
tors concerned in the ecology of insects and the importance to be
placed upon an accumulation of individual notes, Mr. Cook has gone
far: He has analyzed the results, taking into consideration the food
plants and habits of the species involved, the question of temperature
and rainfall and elevation and character of the country inhabited by

.
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

the individual species, and has been able to draw from all this the
following conclusion:

The insect fauna of a given region is not a single stable unit, varying only in
abundance from year to year, but is a composite of smaller groups, each of
which has more or less definite optimum. The composition of the fauna in a
given season is very definitely related to the climatie conditions prevailing at
the time of growth. Three dry years culminating in 1919 enormously in-
ereased the proportion of prairie elements in the Bozeman fauna, while reduc-
ing the eastern and mountain forms. The trend of the climate toward normal
has resulted by 1923 in a great reduction in these prairie intruders, and the
reestablishment of the eastern and mountain forms. How much farther this
movement will go can not be predicted, but it is certain that a return of dry
weather will reverse the direction of the trend.

T select this instance because it concerns a paper that was published
only the other day, but recent entomological and ecological journals
contain numbers of articles of equal or greater significance. What
an advance! In the general warfare against insects those conclu-
sions will seem to have no immediate bearing upon any problem,
but they are valuable and very suggestive and indicate great prog-
ress in entomological thought and methods.

I find a confident prophecy as to the effect of work of this character
in a paper by C. H. T. Townsend in the journal Ecology for January,
1924. He says in closing:

Bnvironment work will be the first and last steps in the insect control of the
future. The normal! favorable environment must be changed to an unfavorable
one. Given the factor values in the eivironment classes to which the insects’
phases are subjected, with the insects’ responses to the same, we are in the
most advantageous position for deciding which phase to attack and which en-
vironment class to manipulate in order to gain control.

Here the factor values include heat, sunlight, rainfall, atmospheric
humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, soil texture, soil moisture,
vegetation, food supply, predators, parasites, and disease.

I remind you of this prophecy without absolutely complete indorse-
ment, but as an especially notable paragraph.

We must not leave this subject of ecology without mention of Hop-
kins’ promising work on bioclimatic laws. It is a subject to which
this able thinker is now fortunately able to devote his principal at-
tention. He has already arrived at conclusions of far-reaching
value—far beyond the confines of economic entomology—and it is
hoped that this great work will receive the appreciation it deserves.

To be able to know precisely and definitely what creature is before
one—to be able to write about it in such a way that all other workers
will understand—necessitates a system of classification and the nam-
ing and technical description of a host of forms. The comparative
study of morphological characters, of course, indicates relationships,
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD 367

presupposes similar methods of development and similar behavior
among the related forms, and in addition it affords evidence as to
lines of descent and the general trend of evolution.

In spite of the hundreds of thousands of species of insects that
have been named and described, a greatly larger number remain
unnamed, while the stability of the names already adopted and
of many of the classificatory details and systems has by no means
become fixed, and there is a sad lack of comprehensive catalogues
of groups—a type of publication of the greatest use to all ento-
mologists. There is, therefore, a crying need for many more capa-
ble taxonomists.

Further than this, there is also a crying need for bigger and
broader taxonomists—for the men now at work to become bigger
and broader, and for the men entering the field to consider a host
of things unconsidered in the old taxonomy. The average taxono-
mist of to-day is lagging behind in the advance of science. New
species continue to pour in at such a rate that his time is constantly
occupied with descriptive work. He is seldom able to apply him-
self to an extended revision of a given group, and if he does at-
tempt such a revision he fails to consider even the small amount
of work that has been done in internal anatomy, embryology,
physiology, and paleo-entomology. His system can not be abso-
lutely sound, because he is not able to go deep enough. We need
a sounder and better based classification all through the group
“Insecta,” and this is one of our prime needs to-day. The basic
value of a stable nomenclature to all workers in all phases of
entomological effort, applhed or not, needs no argument here; it
is obvious to all of us who are engaged in economic work; it is
obvious to those who have done work in embryology, morphology,
genetics, or any other branch of biology in which insect material
is being used.

Taxonomy with the class “ Insecta” is complicated beyond that
of most other groups of animals by the existence of complete meta-
morphoses and the radical difference in the lives of the larve and
of the adults; a fact which brings to bear on each stage many
evolutionary factors entirely different from those acting on the
other. This demands the consideration in taxonomy of what we
used to call “life history work,” and it is in this life history
information and in exact knowledge of early stages that there are
very great gaps. Fortunately, the work on the life history of any
one species or another is fascinating, and always attracts workers.
The number of such investigators is increasing rapidly, and gaps
are being filled.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

We are sadly lacking, however, in our knowledge of larval forms
and in our ability at once to identify larve without first rearing
the adults. In practical work, and especially in international or
intersectional quarantine, the most comprehensive knowledge of
larval forms is necessary, since in the operation of commerce in-
sects are carried accidentally quite as often in the larval form as in
the adult form.

Work upon larval stages is going on at the present time with
some groups of lepidoptera, certain diptera, and the coleoptera.
Perhaps the most ambitious effort of this kind is that with the
last-named order. It is a great pleasure to know that Boving and
Craighead have almost finished characterizations, keys, and short
diagnoses of the families and subfamilies of the entire order
coleoptera.

And, speaking of quarantine work, we should not only be able
to identify material found in whatever stage, but there is a great
deal that should be known which does not come properly under
this portion of this paper. It is becoming plain that quarantines
may be promulgated which are unnecessary. We have been obliged
to go on the presumption that a pest in a given country may be
and probably will be a pest in another country; but such a decision
can not be made with full justice without a knowledge of the
ecology of the species in its original home. It would virtually be
impossible for any nation to carry out investigations of this kind
within the territory of another nation for any number of species
without international agreements and without the expenditure of
large funds, but, if we had known, for example, in this country,
in advance of the advent of the Kuropean corn borer, the ecological
facts concerning this species in Europe, which Mr. K. M. Babcock
is at present studying over there, we would have been in position
to attack the problem, perhaps not much more confidently, but
with a more exact idea concerning the possibilities of spread.

Cooperation is the keynote to success in all great undertakings.
(Pardon this trite statement, tritely put!) In this effort to gain
a perfect knowledge of insects and, through this knowledge, to .
control them, we are engaged in one of the greatest of all under-
takings; and it is not alone for the benefit of our own people—
it is for the benefit of humanity. Therefore, in this great effort
let us never forget that we must freely urge the help of men work-
ing in other branches of science—that we must be keenly on the
lookout for points where they can help us—that we must plan
our investigations with the idea that others will help, and we
must call them in consultation in making our plans.
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD 369

For many of the needed types of investigation we as entomologists
must train ourselves to be self-reliant, but as we broaden out we
must beg the help of experts in many different lines. Any one of
the many discoveries being made in physics, chemistry, or other sci-
ences may touch or may be made to touch our investigations looking
toward the control of insects. Some discovery now on the point of
being made in one of these sciences may lighten our task.’

Primarily in agricultural entomology must we consult the wisest
experts in farm management—the clearest-thinking agronomists.
We realize, as I have already pointed out, that with many of our
methods of farm practice we are encouraging the multiplication and
spread of many insects; we are fairly inviting them to overwhelm
us. Why waste years of work trying to fight them in one way or
another under existing conditions if it be possible, after a full under-
standing of their ways, so to vary crop methods as to hit a vital
point in their economy without materially lessening crop pro-
duction? This has been done in a number of instances. Only the
other day one of our English colleagues (Frew) advised a slight and
inexpensive variation in the manuring and cropping of barley, which
will do away with the damage by a serious insect enemy. A careful
study by an expert agronomist of the life-history facts already
learned by us about a number of our principal injurious insects will
undoubtedly lead to valuable ideas and to the indorsement, from a
far-seeing practical side, of suggestions in this direction which some
of us may have made.

There is no scientific man whose cooperation the entomologist more
needs than the skilled organic chemist. There are scores of prob-
lems of great importance to which the labors of such a man or men
should be turned. In the chemistry ef the physiological processes
in the insect body he is needed, and he is especially needed in the
study of the chemistry of the plants upon which insects feed, in the
effort to understand fundamentally what there is about certain plants
that attracts certain insects. For many months, now, that famous
investigator, Dr. Frederick B. Power, with the able assistance of Mr.
V. K. Chestnut, has been studying the chemistry of the cotton plant,
and this is being done on a scale and with an expenditure of time
and care never before equaled in such a study. The results already
obtained have been of the highest interest from the chemical point
of view, and also from the point of view of plant structure and
physiology; and there have been developments which may prove to

2 Mention may be made here of Prof. C. K. Brain’s just-announced discovery in South
Africa of the adaptation of certain radio principles to insect investigation in which he

shows that by the use of microphones the presence of insects may be deternrined, not only
of wood-boring insects, boring in wood, but of insects in stored grains.
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

be of great importance to the economic entomologist. It would not
be proper for me to make more than this mere statement, but a pre-
liminary paper is being prepared which will contain many astonish-
ing facts.

The Chemical Warfare Service of the Army is carrying on an
elaborate series of tests against insects with different gases, and
has a great accumulation of records which when published will be of
undoubted value if only as records. These tests, in the main, have
been made in cooperation with the Bureau of Entomology. ‘There
is an exception in the case of tests against the cotton boll weevil, for
which a direct appropriation was made to the War Department on
the initiative of a southern Senator. Even the tests from which
there have been no obviously valuable results will have an ultimate
value to future experimenters. It is, therefore, to be hoped that the
secrecy which necessarily must surround Army experimental work
with poison gases that may be used in warfare will not prevent
the near publication of a record of the exact experiments of the
Chemical Warfare Service against insects.

It is true that certain other chemists have entered this field.
George Gray, of California, has a large manuscript on the chem-
istry of insecticides, not yet published, but he has been drafted into
the service of the State in a somewhat different capacity and is no
longer able to devote his whole time to this important side. Wilham
Moore, from whom we expected and still expect great things, has
joined a commercial organization. ‘There is this to be said for chem-
istry, that industrial corporations are employing numbers of research
men and that therefore the very research which we need may be and
is being supported financially by such organizations.

We must look to the chemist for the development of the most
perfect insecticide, which as likely as not will be a synthetic organic
compound. We must look to him for that greatest desideratum—a
cheap compound that will at once stimulate plant life and deter or
destroy insects.

There has grown up in these past years a beautiful spirit of coop-
eration among the entomologists all over the world. I doubt that
such a spirit exists among the workers in any other branch of
science. Each one of us has held himself in readiness to be of as-
sistance to any one of his colleagues of whatever nationality. But
we must not be satisfied with this. The needs of humanity demand
both a broader and a closer association. The prime insect pests
of the world are, through commerce, as we have shown, becoming
widespread, and the self-protection of nations demands the most
intimate knowledge of the injurious insects of all countries, since all
ENTOMOLOGY—-HOWARD oul

of them are potential pests of other regions. This subject was con-
sidered at some length at the recent Pan-Pacific Food Conservation
Conference, and one of the resolutions adopted at that conference
recommended the appointment of an international crop protection
committee to promote surveys, to encourage research work, to pro-
mote the development by each country of larger numbers of trained
workers, and to obtain agreements and understandings between
countries regarding the giving of prompt notification of the appear-
ance of new pests and to secure the cooperation of countries in the
prevention of spread.

All these points that I have considered will no doubt be sufficiently
obvious to you, and very possibly have been in your minds. There
is a host of lesser suggestions that may be made, our needs are so
very great. But this is not the place to go into an extended cate-
gory of lesser things.

As I come to this point I realize more than ever that I have been
writing all the time as an economic entomologist. Down to very
recent times there has been a class distinction between the economic
entomologists and the other workers, especially the taxonomists of
the museums and workers in many laboratories. As the field has
widened out, as the seriousness and vastness of the situation confront-
ing humanity becomes apparent, these workers have been coming
closer together ; the economists have felt the importance of the labors
of the others. The vastly greater part of the work of the economist
has not been basic; it has consisted largely of an effort to apply
known facts to special problems. The emergencies confronting him
have been so great that he has had no time to conduct the long
investigations that might give him other weapons than those nearest
to his hand. His fight has been so strenuous that in a way he has
lost his perspective.

But he has done magnificent work. He has confronted many dif_-
cult situations with success, and with simple weapons. But the
great basic principles which have brought about the conditions
which he has been called upon to meet have not been considered by
him in his haste for immediate relief measures. He has available
no more than a superficial knowledge of the forms he is trying to
fight. It is true that he has carefully worked out in a more or less
general way the life histories of many of the crop pests, but beyond
that he knows little of what must be known.

I have just stated that he has waged a good fight “with simple
weapons,” but this must not be taken in a derogatory way. An
admirable book, which (patriotically) I wish had been written by
Americans, was published in England in 1923 by R. A. Wardle, of
the University of Manchester, and Philip Buckle, of the University
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

of Durham, which gives a review of an advanced and encouraging
character of our knowledge of “the principles of insect control.”

It so happens, to consider things concretely, that an appropriation
bill now before Congress allots for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
1925, more than $2,500,000 to the Bureau of Entomology; but of this
large amount more than $1,200,000 must be spent on the three specific
problems of the gipsy moth, the European corn borer, and the
Japanese beetle, in the effort to prevent their spread and to gain at
least partial control. And the remaining sums are for the most part
to be spent in the study of special crop pests. In other words, at
least half of the amount, although it may be continued in future years
and will probably be so continued, should really be termed emergency
funds—funds appropriated to meet immediate and specific emer-
gencies.

It is an interesting thought that, looking toward the future, this
large sum would probably be much more productive in the long
run if it were spent in the effort to learn fundamental things along
some of the lines we have touched. If this idea seems overdrawn, in
view of existing conditions, it is none the less surely true that large
sums must be forthcoming to support these greatly needed lines of
research,

Last winter, toward the close of the Cincinnati meeting, I felt
growing within me a conviction that we are on the eve of startling
discoveries in economic entomology. -I spoke of this to several
leaders, and found that they shared the feeling. The conviction has
been growing since, and may well be realized. But this does not
lessen the certainty that it is our duty to labor diligently in our
efforts to gain a complete understanding of insects. The compara-
tive paucity of our present knowledge should be a tremendous
incentive.

The entomologist has come into his own. He is acknowledged
and respected by workers in other branches of science. The impor-
tance of his labors is recognized by the most important part of the
general public. To justify this, and to increase it, demands that
we work earnestly, that we make a strenuous effort to increase our
numbers, and that we broaden our views and our methods.
FROM AN EGG TO AN INSECT

By R. E. SNODGRASS
Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture

INTRODUCTION

It is perhaps an inheritance from more primitive days that we
are so prone to estimate value by size, and that we hold small things
in contempt. Though we have learned full well from science that
the most minute of living creatures may be vastly important or
inimical to our welfare, we still persist somewhat in belittling the
study of them. Especially is this true if the creature is an insect.
Yet, the study of insects has contributed much to our knowledge of
the general principles of life, and in particular to an understanding
of certain phases of reproduction and heredity. This, because the
fundamentals of life are the same for all living things, ourselves in-
cluded, and because some life processes have been found more easily
studied in insects and other lower forms of animals than in the
more complex ones.

The microscope, however, makes the flea the equal of the dog, and
on the printed page the discrepancy between the large and the small
disappears, for the description of one may require just as many words
as that of the other—and, we might add, words of equal size.
Words! Words are the curse of scientific writing; but it should be
recognized that any description is likely to be far more complicated
than the thing described. If the object could be seen or pictured
directly instead of being portrayed in words, how much simpler and
clearer it might appear! We can not all, however, be students of
nature at first hand, and it becomes a part of the business of the
scientist to present his information to the public, or to such part of
the public as is interested, and this he can do fully only through the
medium of language. The true scientist, however, is usually so fear-
ful of saying something that might possibly in some way be mis-
construed by technical critics that he puts his statements in the
terms adopted and defined by his particular branch of science. As
a consequence, scientific vocabularies, while becoming more and more
concise to specialists, are becoming less and_ less euphonic and

76041—26——25 373

374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

farther and farther removed from the understanding of the general
reader. ‘This state of affairs is to be deplored, because one of the
purposes of science, at least of scientific institutions that employ
scientists, is the diffusion of knowledge, and knowledge is not dif-
fused by writings in which the secrets of nature seem to be just as
carefully guarded from the public understanding as they are in the
various realms of nature herself.

Another thing that contributes to the unreadableness of much
scientific writing is the laudable desire of the scientist to give full
credit where credit is due; but this often overloads his text with
citations of references and authorities, and so breaks up the con-
tinuity of his account that the general reader soon tires in an attempt
to follow it. What then shall we do? The only solution seems to
be that for scientists we must write as scientists, for the general
reader we must clear away all but the essentials, though letting it
be known that we do not pretend to first-hand knowledge of more
than a small percentage, if any, of the facts related.

In the following pages an attempt will be made to tell, with a
minimum of technical terms, the story of the development of an
insect from the germ cells to the creature at hatching. The facts
of development and heredity, however, are exceptionally difficult to
put into ordinary words, for the reason that they constitute phases of
growth that are in many ways quite different from those with which
we are more familiar. And yet, for descriptive purposes, things must
have names. Therefore, where only a scientific name is available,
that name must be used, and if the writer makes all possible conces-
sions to a popular vocabulary, the reader, on his part, must agree
to learn a few indispensable terms of technical embryology.

THE GERM CELLS

The materials of which living matter is composed consist mostly
of substances that the chemists call unstable—which is to say, they
are complex compounds that naturally break down into their simpler
and more stable components. For this reason the physical substance
of life must be continually renewed. All animals and most plants
have a limited space of time during which they are able to repair
their waste and remain alive. A large proportion of them, too, never
attain their possible old-age limit, falling victims at an earlier age
to other devouring animals, to parasites, and to diseases. Hence,
even though each individual were capable of living forever, its chance
of doing so would be slim; sooner or later it would almost certainly
be destroyed in one way or another, To insure continuity of life,
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 375

therefore, the individuals of each species are endowed with the power
of reproducing themselves. Some of the lower animals can regen-
erate themselves from pieces of their own tissues, but most animals
procreate by means of special cells that have the property, under
certain conditions, of reproducing a complete form like the parent.
These special reproductive cells are known as the germ cells. Some
of the germ cells of plants, called spores, have no distinction of sex,
but in animals the germ cells are always of two kinds—male and
female. ‘The two kinds may be borne by the same individual, but
ordinarily each is carried by a different kind of individual of the
same species, and these individuals are accordingly distinguished
also as male and female. The visible differences between male and
female individuals, however, are mostly of a secondary nature, havy-
ing a relation to the different demands of the germ cells on the indi-
viduals that mature them; the fundamental differences of sex are in
the structure of the body cells themselves, which are distinguished
by the same characters as are the germ cells.

The mature male germ cells are known as the spermatozoa, or
sperms; the mature female germ cells as the ova, or eggs; but at
any stage these cells may be called the male and female germ cells.
Ordinarily the germ cells must be united in pairs of opposite kinds
in order to produce new individuals. This kind of development con-
stitutes sexual reproduction, and the union of the two cells is known
as fertilization. In some invertebrate animals, however, including
many species of insects, the egg is capable of developing alone, and
development of this sort is distinguished as asexual reproduction, or
parthenogenesis. The male germ cell never develops by itself; it
must always be united with at least a part of an egg cell.

The female germ cell, then, being the one on which the responsi-
bility of development depends, is usually protected in some way from
destroying influences, either by being inclosed in a tough shell, or by
being retained within the body of the mother during the early part
of its developmental period. If the egg is extruded from the body
of the parent and must develop after that without receiving any
nourishment from the mother, there is provided within its shell an
amount of nutrient material sufficient to carry it through to the time
when the newly formed creature can leave the shell and obtain food
for itself. This nutrient material within the egg is called yolk.

The eggs of insects have a great variety of shapes, determined by
the shell (fig. 1). Some are round, some are oval, some are flat;
some are smooth on the outside, some ridged or variously sculptured.
Some are laid by the female in the most exposed places, others are
deposited where they will be protected, as under bark, in the ground,
lic. 1.—Various forms of insect eggs (all much enlarged, but not to same scale)

A, egg of a housefly; B, stalked eggs of a lacewing fly, the golden-eye, attached
to under surface of a leaf; C, egg of a cabbage butterfly; D, flat, overlapping eggs
of a leaf-roller moth; EB, eggs of potato beetle on under surface of a leaf; F, egg of
the snowy tree-cricket inserted into an apple twig.

in the stems of plants, or in the bodies of other insects.

Eges such

as the latter, including the eggs of grasshoppers, beetles, flies, are

Pela c

Men

Che
sat

I'ic. 2.—Section of a
typical insect egg,
showing its internal
structure
Cho, chorion, or

outer shell; CZ, cor-

tical layer of proto-
plasm; Mic, micro-
pyle; Nu, Nucleus;

Vit, vitelline mem-

brane; Y, yolk.

eomplex organization.

usually of a long-oval form, slightly curved,
and a trifle smaller at one end than at the
other. An egg of this kind will be the most
convenient to take as a type for study (fig. 1, 7,
fie 2).

The external covering of the insect egg is
‘alled the chorion (fig. 2, Cho). It is composed
of a tough, flexible substance, quite unlike the
brittle shell of a bird’s egg, deposited upon the
egg from the wall of the egg tube. The young
insect when ready to hatch either splits the egg
shell or gnaws a hole in it large enough to
allow it to emerge. An example of the first
method of emergence was given in the descrip-
tion of the hatching of a young cicada in the
Smithsonian Report for 1919, page 407, and
an example of the second method in the hatch-
ing of a young cankerworm described in the
Smithsonian Report for 1924, page 334.

The newly laid egg appears to contain noth-
ing but a clear, watery, or creamy lquid, but
when examined under the microscope in speci-
mens prepared and stained for microscopic
study, the interior of the egg is seen to have a
Its fundamental substance is protoplasm,

but most of its bulk consists of yolk materials (fig. 2, Y) that

are mixed with the protoplasm.

The protoplasm itself is visible

principally as a thin layer at the surface of the egg (CL);
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 377

elsewhere it appears to be reduced to a mere network of strands
in the yolk. Near the center of the egg, or usually nearer one
end, in an island of protoplasm, is the nucleus (Vw), a small body,
but one of great importance and of complicated structure. The soft
parts of the egg are all contained in a delicate vitelline membrane
(Vit), just within the chorion, which is a product of the egg itself.

The egg nucleus consists of a nucleus plasm separated from the
surrounding egg plasm and yolk by a nuclear membrane. Within

the plasm of the nucleus is a fine network upon which, during

Fic. 3.—Diagram of cell division, involving special activities in the nucleus

A, cell in ordinary condition with chromatin (Cm) distributed through nucleus
(Nu), and centrosome (Cen) undivided; B, cell preparing to divide, chromatin
in Spireme threads (Spi), centrosome divided and halves moving to opposite poles
of nucleus, nuclear membrane disappearing; C, spireme threads condensed to
chromosomes, centrosomes at opposite poles of nucleus with spindle between
them, nuclear wall gone; D, chromosomes in plane between the centrosomes, each
splitting into two; EH, chromosomes divided and half of each drawn to opposite
ends of nucleus, cell dividing; F, chromatin dispersed in two new nuclei, and
cell completely divided.

ordinary periods of imactivity (fig. 83 A), are scatered many small
grains of a dark-staining substance called chromatin (Cm).

The egg and the sperm are cells, and the most important activity
of cells in general is that of division, a process by which a single
cell becomes two cells; and upon this depends the power of growth
and reproduction. The usual method of cell division involves in-
teresting changes in the nucleus, and must be understood before we
can proceed with the subject of development.

When a cell is preparing to divide, the chromatin granules of its
nucleus arrange themselves in a number of long thread-like strands
(fig. 3 B, Spz), or in a single strand that later breaks up into pieces.
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

In either case the threads contract and thicken till they form dark-
staining bodies or masses of chromatin material. These bodies are
the chromosomes (C, Chr). The number of chromosomes is in gen-
eral constant for each species, there being in insect cells commonly
between 2 and 30 of them, though in some species there is a much
larger number. The chromosome number, however, is typically not
the same in male and female cells of the same species, the male cells
usually having one less chromosome than the female cells. But in
some insects this rule is reversed, while in others the male cells have
as many chromosomes as the female cells, though in such cases one
is usually very small, as if in the process of being eliminated. The
different chromosomes in each cell of many species, moreover, have
characteristic individual shapes and sizes by which they can always
be identified and distinguished from one another. In the diagrams,
Vigures 3 to 6, and 9, three varieties of chromosomes are represented,
but these are conventional figures not intended to represent cells of
any particular species, and the reader must not get the impression
that chromosomes are necessarily of these forms.

The division of the cell starts with the nucleus, and, indeed, with
the chromosomes themselves (fig. 3 D), each of these bodies splitting
lengthwise into halves. Preceding this division of the chromosomes,
however, a minute speck, called the centrosome (A, Cen) lying just
outside the nucleus, has divided and its two parts have moved to
opposite poles of the nucleus (B, C). The nuclear wall now dis-
appears and fine colorless lines radiate through the nucleus from
the two centrosomes, forming a spindle-shaped figure between them
(C). The chromosomes (CAv) become arranged across the middle
of the spindle (D) and then, as if pulled by a contraction of the
threads, their separated halves move to opposite ends of the nucleus
(i). Here they form two new nuclear groups, each of which
becomes surrounded by a new nuclear membrane (IF). At the same
time, the cell itself constricts between the nuclei (E) and finally
separates into two daughter cells (Ff), each of which increases in
size and becomes in all respects a replica of the original cell. Growth
in all animal and plant tissues takes place by cell division, and most
cell divisions involve these complicated changes in the nucleus.

We have seen that the original germ cells of any species ordinarily
contain the same number of chromosomes as the body cells of this
species. What, then, happens when two of them come together in
fertilization—is the number of chromosomes doubled? No; for in
the course of a few generations the number of chromosomes would
increase to impossible numbers. For a while, the germ cells mul-
tiply by divisions of the ordinary sort just described, resulting in
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 379

more cells like the original ones. But finally there comes a time
when a new kind of division intervenes which, instead of preserving
the original number of chromosomes, reduces it. ‘The chromosome
threads may appear in the ordinary manner and in the usual num-
ber, but they develop an attraction for one another which leads them
to come together and unite in pairs (fig. 4 A, B, C). This mating
of the chromosomes is called synapsis (from two Greek words mean-
ing a union), and a most interesting thing about it is that it con-
sists, not of a haphazard union of any chromosome with any other,
but of a definite pairing of corresponding male and female chro-
mosomes descended from the parent chromosomes that came together

Fic. 4.—Diagram of synapsis, or the mating of the chromosomes prior to the
maturation divisions

A-C, synapsis in a female germ cell nucleus with six chromosomes, including
two x-chromosomes (g#, #), resulting in a nucleus (C) with three double chromo-
somes, including one double x-chromosome; D-—F, synapsis in a male germ cell
nucleus with four orthochromosomes and one x-chromosome, resulting in a
nucleus (I) with two double orthochromosomes, but with one single x-chromo-
some.

at the fertilization of the egg from which this generation of germ
cells was derived. At least, there is very good evidence that this
is what takes place; it is even suggested by some writers that there
is an interchange of substance between the chromosomes while
mated, thus bringing about a redistribution of hereditary characters
carried by the chromosomes.

We have seen that the chromosomes are often distinguished by
visible differences in size or shape. Two of the chromosomes in the
female egg cell before synapsis are of special interest, for reasons
that will appear later, and are usually referred to as the female
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

x-chromosomes, the others collectively being known as the auto-
chromosomes, or orthochromosomes. One «-chromosome came from
the female parent cell, the other from the male. At synapsis the
two w-chromosomes pair with each other, producing one double
x-chromosome. Thus, for example, if an egg cell contained orig-
inally six chromosomes in all (fig. 4 A), two of which were
x-chromosomes (a, #), its chromosome formula after synapsis is
2+-lx (fig. 4 C), but with each chromosome now of double value.
With all egg cells having an even number of chromosomes, as we
have seen most female cells have, the mating of the chromosomes in
synapsis reduces the number of chromosomes to just one-half the orig-
inal number. Chromosome reduction in the egg, therefore, is a simple
matter of dividing by two in most cases. But what happens during
synapsis to a male germ cell with an odd number of chromosomes?
Simply the most natural thing: The corresponding orthochromo-
somes pair with each other; the «-chromosome, being without a
mate, remains single (fig. 4 D, KH, I). Hence, in a male cell with
five original chromosomes, the chromosome formula after synapsis
becomes 2-++1z, the same as in the egg cell of the same species, except
that the w-chromosome is of single value. In male cells that have
an even number of chromosomes, the «-chromosome has a small
mate, which is designated the y-chromosome. After synapsis in
one of these cells having 4-+-x#+y chromosomes, the chromosome
formula becomes 2+-«y, in which wy represents a single double
chromosome.

After the chromosomes are paired off, the chromatin material
may again become strung out in the form of threads, but in any
case the threads soon take on the typical chromosome forms as in
the stage preceding cell divisions, for there is now about to take
place two special divisions of the germ cell which will prepare
it for the eventual union with a germ cell of the opposite sex in
fertilization. These two divisions of the germ cells constitute the
process known as maturation. Synapsis, in nearly all cases in
animals, precedes the first maturation division; in a few species of
insects, however, it precedes the second division.

The insect egg up to the time of maturation has been still within
one of the egg tubes of the parent female, where it has grown
enormously by the accumulation of yolk in its protoplasm. In its
early stages it divided entire, like any other cell, but now, on ac-
count of its bulk, it can no longer conveniently do so. Hence-
forth all its divisions will affect only the nucleus. At this stage the
egg is usually laid, and maturation takes place immediately after-
ward. At the beginning of maturation the nucleus moves nearer
the surface, and at the first maturation division the halves of each
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 381

chromosome pair, united in synapsis (fig. 5 A, a), are again sepa-
rated on a division spindle and pass to opposite poles of the nucleus
to form the two new nuclei. After this division, therefore, each
new nucleus contains the same reduced number of chromosomes
as before (fig. 5 A, 6), but the chromosome material itself has
undergone a redistribution between the new nuclei, since the indi-
vidual chromosomes were not divided between them as in ordinary
cell division. The separated halves of the paired chromosomes do
not necessarily all go in the same direction, the male or female ele-
ment in some going to the one pole and in some going to the

Fic. 5.—Maturation of an egg

A, diagram of chromosome division in maturation: each double chromosome
in nucleus (a), after synapsis (fig. 4C), divides into single chromosomes of nuclei
of first division (b) ; in second division, each single chromosome splits into two,
resulting in four nuclei (c), each with same number of chromosomes, but with
half the number contained in the original cell (fig. 4A). B, section of upper end
of egg of a honeybee just after maturation, showing the three small polar body
nuclei (PB), and the large functional egg nucleus (Nu) now ready for fertiliza-
tion. (igure from Petrunkevitch.)

other, so that whatever hereditary influences they may carry will
be distributed by chance in all possible combinations. ‘The second
maturation division immediately follows the first, but in this di-
vision the original chromosomes divide lengthwise each into two
as in ordinary division, thus producing four nuclei, two of which
are replicas of one of the first-formed nuclei, and two of the other
(fig. 5 A, ce). The chromosome number, however, is the same in
all, the formula being 2-+1a for nuclei descended from one with
six original chromosomes.

Figure 5 A represents diagrammatically only what takes place in
the nucleus of the maturating egg cell; a truer picture of the results
of the maturation divisions is shown at B. Three of the new nuclei
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

produced are very small, while one maintains the normal size. This
large nucleus becomes the functional nucleus of the maturated egg
(Nu); the three small ones, known as the polar bodies (PB), are
rudimentary nuclei that move to the surface of the egg plasm
where they degenerate and are absorbed in the yolk. Only in ex-
ceptional cases do the polar bodies play a special part in
development.

The egg is now ready for fertilization. The nucleus sinks back
again into the deeper part of the egg plasm and yolk, and the egg,
unless it is one of those capable of parthenogenetic development,
has no further history until a sper-
matozo6n unites with its nucleus.
In the course of normal events
with most insect eggs, however, a
spermatozoodn has already entered
the egg plasm, or more probably
several have entered (fig. 8), so that
one is almost certain to accom-
plish its purpose. Before going on
with the subject of fertilization
we must, then, learn something of
what has happened to the sperm
cells during maturation, how they
Fic. 6—Diagram of chromosome divi: have become transformed into sper-

sion during, maturauon o: 2 Sper” amatozoa, and how the spermatozoa

nucleus (a) containing two double

orthochromosomes and one single x- gained an entrance into the egg.
chromosome after synapsis (fig 4F). f TI Heh ae 1 1 % ll
The first division produces two nu- 1€ «4Originat maie germ CeéLIS
clei (b), of which one contains two ordinarily contain the same num-
single orthochromosomes and one x-

chromosome, and the other only two ber of chromosomes as the body

orthochromesemes Phe ipeceud ais, Hells or ther male Wiscep mksin iemrs

sion produces four nuclei (c), two ‘

with an x-chromosome, and two with- them, but male cells in general, as

oa we have seen, differ from female
cells of the same species by having only one #-chromosome in the
nucleus, or in having a small y-chromosome as a mate for the
z-chromosome. The male of a species in which the female germ cells
have six chromosomes would most likely have five chromosomes in
the nuclei of its germ cells (fig. 4, D), which would mean a chromo-
some formula of 4+1z. The single a-chromosome, having no mate,
remains single after synapsis (fig. 4 F), when the chromosome
formula of the male becomes 2+1a. At the first maturation divi-
sion (fig. 6, a), therefore, the a-chromosome can not divide, and it
has to choose between going with one group or the other of the
orthochromosomes. As a consequence, one of the new nuclei will
contain an w-chromosome, and the other will not. Two kinds of

FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 383

sperm cells are thus differentiated, one having the usual chromo-
some formula of 2-++-1la, the other having simply two orthochromo-
somes (fig. 6, 6). At the second maturation division, when all the
chromosomes divide in the usual manner, four cells are formed, two
of which are of the 1x variety, and two of the no-w variety (fig. 6, ¢).
In cases where a y-chromosome is present with the «-chromosome,
there are still two classes of sperm cells produced, one having the
x-chromosome, and the other the y-chromosome, since these chromo-
somes are separated in the first division after their union in synapsis.

Fic. 7.—Spermiogenesis, or the transformation of the male germ cell after maturation
into a spermatozo6n, and the mature spermatozoén

A-J, spermiogenesis in a grasshopper (figures from H. 8S. Davis): a, head of the
spermatozoén; b, the middle piece, from which a long filament extends out into the
tail; c, the tail, formed by elongation of the cell body (B, C, D); d, a body in the
cell (A, B) that eventually surrounds the tail filament (D, E); Nu, the nucleus,
which remains in the head (J). K, bundles of spermatozoa from the spermatheca of
a female broad-winged katydid.

The divisions of the male germ cells always affect the entire cell,
since the male cells do not accumulate yolk, and remain small. Fur-
thermore, the maturation of the male cells, with few exceptions, pro-
duces four equal-sized cells, all of which ordinarily will become
functional spermatozoa. At this stage each sperm cell, now known
as a spermatid, still has the rounded or oval form of an ordinary cell.
To become a fully-formed spermatozoén it must undergo a meta-
morphosis, a process too complicated to be described here in detail,
but which results in a transformation of the simple spermatid into a
thread-like spermatozoén (fig. 7). The mature spermatozodn, how-
os4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ever, is not a simple filament; under a high-power microscope there
‘an be distinguished in it a number of parts: First, there is a head
(fig. 7, D, E, J, @) containing the nucleus (Vw), then comes a short
body or middle piece (0), and finally a long, tapering tail (c). The
tail acquires the power of movement and can be lashed sideways
with a wavy motion, which lashing drives the sperm forward with
much speed when the sperm is immersed in a liquid. The male
germ cell has now become virtually a minute one-celled animal, and
has arrived at the stage in which it is capable of fertilizing a ma-
turated egg cell.

All the processes thus far described concerning synapsis and ma-
turation of the germ cells, and the transformation of the spermatids
into spermatozoa apply to animals in general, including man, and it
must not be supposed they are limited to
insects. The processes have been exten-
sively studied in insects because they are
more easily seen in many insect germ
cells than in the cells of higher animals.
The same is true of fertilization, a de-
scription of which will soon follow, but
many of the accessory processes as they
of . occur in insects are peculiar to insects.
Fic. 8.—-Diagram representing the During mating, for example, the ‘sper-

entrance of spermatozoa (Spm) ynatozoa from the male insect are stored

into the egg through the mic- : : ; ; =

ropyle (ific). Cho, chorion; Nu, iM a Special sac within the body of the

egg nucleus after maturation; female. This sac, known as the sper-

shee anrae tics matheca, 1s connected with the outlet
duct of the female’s ovaries. The eggs may not be deposited for
some time after mating, the time varying with different species,
sometimes a few hours, sometimes a few days, or a considerable
length of time may elapse. With the honeybee the spermatozoa are
capable of remaining alive and functional in the queen for three or
four years.

Whenever an egg is laid a number of spermatozoa in a spermatic
liquid are discharged from the sperm sac upon the upper end of
the egg as the latter goes by the mouth of the sperm sac. Some of
these spermatozoa almost invariably find their way into the egg
through a minute aperture in the shell, the micropyle (fig. 2, A/ie),
penetrating the vitelline membrane and entering the egg plasm by
the force of their own motion (fig. 8). The first of these sperma-
tozoa to reach the egg nucleus is the one that mates with it; the un-
successful perish in the egg and are probably absorbed in the yolk.

FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 385
FERTILIZATION

Once the spermatozo6n is within the plasm of the egg it travels
inward, at first straight away from the point of entrance, though
such a course 1s not necessarily toward the egg nucleus. The latter,
as we have seen, is moving at the same time deeper into the egg from
the place where it gave off the polar bodies. The sperm soon alters
its course to one that will intersect the path of the egg nucleus. The
two bodies then eventually meet as if mutually drawn to the same
point in the egg plasm, but the influences that effect the meeting are
entirely unknown, as are also the forces that bring about the subse-
quent activities of fertilization. Consequently we may confine our-
selves to a narration of the facts as they occur, which are interesting
enough in themselves, without bothering for the present with specu-
lations as to what causes them. When the sperm and the egg nucleus
meet, the sperm casts off its body and tail into the egg plasm while
its nucleated head fuses with the egg nucleus. The substance of the
two nuclei then becomes inclosed in a common membrane, thus estab-
lishing a new nucleus, in which the original chromosome number is
restored, since this nucleus now contains the sum of the female and
the male chromosomes.

The union of the male and female germ cells is the visible phe-
nomenon of fertilization, but it brings about such remarkable results
in the egg as to show that there are most important processes in-
volved not yet revealed under the microscope. Fertilization accom-
plishes at least three things: First, it stimulates the egg to begin
development; second, it adds to the egg a new set of hereditary char-
acters or influences derived from the male line of descent; and third,
it apparently determines in the egg of most animals the sex of the
future individual.

The nature of the stimulus given to the egg by the sperm is not
certainly known, but that it is a chemical one is indicated by the
fact that some eggs can be stimulated to begin development by be-
ing artifically treated with certain substances. Perhaps, on the
other hand, the effect is due to the destroying of some inhibiting
influence, since insect eggs that develop without fertilization clearly
demonstrate that the sperm element is not necessary to them. The
hereditary influences brought together by the two conjugating cells
constitute a subject too large to be discussed here; the facts asso-
ciated with the establishment of sex in the ensuing individual,
however, are too interesting to be passed over.

It is clear that the number of chromosomes in the fertilized egg
nucleus will depend on the number in the particular spermatozo6dn
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

that fertilized it. If the sperm was one of those having the same
vumber of chromosomes as the egg—i. e., one with an a-chromosome—
the new nucleus will have just twice the number of chromosomes
that was in the maturated egg nucleus, and, therefore, the same
number as that of the original female germ cells and the female
body cells of its species. The resulting individual will consequently
be a female. If, on the other hand, the fertilizing sperm happened
to be one of those with no
x-chromosome, the number
of chromosomes in the new
nucleus will be one less,
and will be the same as
that in the original male
germ cells and in the male
body cells. The new indi-
vidual will be a male. To
illustrate with our hypo-
thetical example used _ be-
fore: If a maturated egg
nucleus containing 2+-1”
chromosomes (fig. 9 A, 0)
is fertilized by a sperm
nucleus (a) with 2+1z
chromosomes, the new nu-
ria 9 State a oe ei a a clon a) e ao
A, a maturated egg nucleus (6) containing chromosomes, the female
two orthochromosomes and one x-chromosome, formula; but if the same

fertilized by a spermatozoédn (a) having the h lil :
same number of chromosomes, producing a fer- C228, OF another like it

ae egg nucleus (c) with four orthochromo- (B,e), should be fertilized
somes and two x-chromosomes, which now con-

tains the original female assortment of chromo- by a sperm (d@) having only

somes (fig. 4A). B, a maturated egg nucleus (e) 2 c 3 n
of the same species fertilized by a sperm (d) two ordinary chromo

containing only two orthochromosomes, produc- somes, the new nucleus (f)
ing a feted cag nucleus (f) with four ertbe- will have 4-+12 chromo-
is the original male assortment of chromosomes somes, the male formula
eden for the same _ species.
Sperms containing y-chromosomes give the same result, differentiating
the eggs by the chromosome formulas of 4+2# and 4-+-xy. Therefore,
apparently according to the presence of two #-chromosomes or of only
one, the number resulting by “ chance ” in the fertilization of the egg,
the new individual developed from the egg will be either female or male.
The reader must. understand, now, that in spite of appearances,
it is not certain that sex is actually determined by the a-chromo-
somes, or by any of the chromosomes. Though in the great
majority of animals the number of w-chromosomes appears to be

FROM EGG TO INSECT—-SNODGRASS 387

the deciding thing, it may be that the real determining influence
is something that escapes the scrutiny of the microscopist, and
that the chromosome combination is merely coincident with it.
This doubt is raised by the fact that in some plants and in some
of the lower animals, sex is not necessarily fixed at the time of
fertilization, and may either be established’ later or influenced
by external circumstances. It is certain, however, that with the
great majority of animals of all kinds sex is determined at the
ime of fertilization and that nothing can change it subsequently.

Certain other characters that will appear in the new individual
as a part of its inheritance, besides those of sex, are known to be
linked with the chromosomes, but these are mostly traits that char-
acterize individual lines of descent, or varieties within the species.
The determining factors of the inheritance of fundamental species
characters by individuals of both sexes are supposed to be contained
in the bodies of the germ cells themselves.

DEVELOPMENT

Growth and development are not the same thing, but they are
so closely associated in animals that usually the animal continues
to develop as long as it grows, and grows only during its develop-
mental period.

Growth takes place through a repeated division of the egg cell
or of a part of it to form a mass of cells that continue to multiply
by similar divisions. Development consists of a gradual, definite
arrangement in the growing mass of cells to form the various
parts and organs of the future adult—a new individual having
all the structural details characteristic of the species to which it
belongs, as well as some or all of the peculiarities of its parents
and immediate ancestors, but having also, in most cases, minor
characters of its own. Thus, heredity keeps each new individual
close to the ancestral path and maintains the line of descent; but
the freedom of each individual to deviate slightly from the ances-
tral path has made evolution possible, and has resulted in the vast
number of species of animals and plants in the world to-day.

THE BEGINNING OF DEVELOPMENT

With those species of animals whose eggs contain only a small
amount of yolk, development starts with the division of the entire
egg into two cells. A few insect eggs develop by entire division, but
most of them are so enlarged with yolk, like a bird’s egg, that
it is only the neucleus and a small amount of the surrounding
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

protoplasm that divides, the rest of the egg remaining intact
(fig. 10 A). As the newly formed nuclei redivide, the resulting
nuclei scatter through the yolk (B) and migrate outward in
all directions until they come into the protoplasmic layer at the
surface. Here they eventually become evenly arranged in a single
layer (C), and then the containing protoplasm condenses about each
nucleus (D), resulting in a layer of small nucleated cells envelop-
ing the yolk (E). This cell layer, having now the form of the
egg, is the blastoderm (D, EF, Bl). Eggs that divide by the entire
method arrive at the blastoderm stage simply by multiplying until
they form a hollow ball of cells. This is a simpler procedure, but
one that is practicable only with eggs that are not heavily loaded

with yolk.

Fic. 10.—Formation of the blastoderm

A, development begins with the division of the egg nucleus into several
cleavage nuclei (Nw) within the yolk (Y). B, the multiplying nuclei migrate
outward into the cortical layer of protoplasm (CL); several at the posterior
pole of the egg become the germ cells (GCls). C, the nuclei in the cortical
protoplasm soon form a definite layer at the surface of the egg; a few nuclei
remain in the yolk; the germ cells increase in number. D, the cortical proto-
plasm condenses about each surface nucleus to form a layer of cells, the blasto-
derm (Bl), surrounding the yolk beneath the vitelline membrane (Vit). BH,
the blastoderm in surface view.

FORMATION OF THE GERM CELLS

The cells of the blastoderm are in general all alike, but in many
insects a group of cells appears at the posterior end of the .egg
(fig. 10 B, C, GCls) at the time the blastoderm is forming which
remain distinct from the true blastoderm cells. These cells like-
wise are immediate descendents of the egg nucleus, but their
destiny is quite different from that of the other cells—they are
the primitive germ cells of the future individual whose body is
to be formed by the blastoderm cells. Here we have, then, differ-
entiated at this early stage, two sets of cells, one of which will
form the body cells of the generation now developing, while the
other will form the body cells and the germ cells of the succeed-
ing generation. This relation is easily seen in the diagram, Fig-
FROM EGG TO INSECT-—SNODGRASS 389

ure 11, in which for convenience the products of only one germ
cell are shown for each generation. As the new individual de-
velops, the germ cells wander among the body cells for a while,
but at last they become lodged in the reproductive organs (figs.
24, 27, GCls). Here they multiply in number and undergo their
development into the mature eggs or spermatozoa, according to
the sex.

The mass of body cells, consequently, appears to be but a mere
side issue from the germ cells, a specialized group of nonreproduc-
tive cells that the germ cells have produced for their own protec-
tion. It is most probable that in the evolution of animals all the
cells were originally alike, and that the division of labor between
them has had the usual consequence; the germ cells, in leaving the
vegetative functions to the body cells, have lost most of their capac-
ity for functions other than that of reproduction; while the body
cells, in specializing on the vegetative functions, have lost the
reproductive function. The one-celled animals, however, having

Fig. 11.—Diagram showing relation of germ cells (@Cls) and body cells
(BCls) in successive generations. A germ cell of A forms the germ cells
and body cells of B; a germ cell of B forms the germ cells and body cells of
C, ete. The offspring (C) of B derives nothing from the body cells of the
parent (B), but both offspring (C) and parent (B) have a common origin
in a germ cell of A, the grandparent of C

never differentiated into the two sets of cells, retain in themselves
all the normal functions of a cell. But, in some of the lower many-
celled animals, the body cells also have not entirely lost the power
of reproduction, since in some species a body cell or a group of
them detached from the body may multiply and reproduce a new
body. The first-formed body cells of the developing egg, too, are
reproductive cells in this sense, since it is they that carry on the
constructive work delegated to them by the parent germ cell; and
all the body cells, in retaining the power of division, retain the
power of reproduction. All such forms of reproduction, however,
are of the asexual type; the distinctive quality of the true germ
cells is their ability to unite in fertilization and produce a new
individual combining the qualities of two others, though this is not
always a necessary condition with the egg cell.
76041—-26——26
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

During the period of the first divisions in the developing insect
egg, there is no evidence to show that any cell may not become either
a body cell or a germ cell, or that any particular body cell has from
the beginning a special destiny. When the body cells later become
organized into layers and groups, they become more and more re-
stricted in their reproductive powers, each group forming only cer-
tain organs and tissues of the future animal. In the adult stage even
this power is largely lost in the cells of higher animals, which can
now multiply only to the extent of healing wounds. Lower in the
scale of organization, however, lost members of the body can be
regenerated from a stump, or even the greater part of the body may
be re-formed from a fragment. At last, though, there comes a time
when the vitality of the body cells is lost, or is completely sup-
pressed, and the animal dies.

Though the body cells are by nature merely the servants of the
germ cells, we look upon the structure that they form as the reason
for the existence of the germ cells, because it is the visible, sentient
animal in which are developed all the powers of reaction to external
stimuli, the instincts, self-consciousness, and intelligence that is
potential in the germ cell. But these faculties are all developed for
the purpose of maintaining the germ cells, for bringing them to-
gether, for nourishing, protecting, and educating the offsprmg. No
creature, therefore, according to the plan of nature, lives for itself;
its whole reason for existence is the next generation. This does not
mean, however, that every individual of a species should be a repro-
ductive individual. Among the social insects, the ants and bees, for
example, certain individuals are designed to be accessory to the re-
productive individuals. These are the so-called workers and soldiers
that build the nest or comb, protect the community from invasion,
attend to the collecting and storing of food, rear and feed the
young—members of the community which, in short, are indispensible
to it through their services to the reproducing castes and to the
offspring of the latter.

Since the germ cells and the body cells of each individual are pro-
duced side by side, and not one from the other, heredity, as a conse-
quence, is not directly from one generation to the next, but between
alternate generations. In figure 11 it is seen that the germ cells and
the body cells of generation C, for example, find their common ances-
tor not in the parent generation B, but in a germ cell derived from
the grandparent generation A, which cell is contained and developed
in B. The common resemblance between parent and offspring, then,
is due to the developmental influences embodied in the germ cells,
which produce similar results in the body cells of successive genera-
tions, and not to influences exerted by the body cells on the germ
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 391

cells. It is fortunate that the body cells do not impress their char-
acters on the germ cells, else the offspring would inherit all the mal-
formations of the parents and all the results of accidents, amputa-
tions, and diseases that may befall the parents.

Enough has now been said of the germ cells, since we have traced
both their origin and their final development into mature reproduc-
tive cells. Something might be said of the intervening part of their
history in the reproductive organs of the parent individuals, show-
ing how they are here multiplied and nourished, but this would
take too much time from our main theme, which from here on will
be concerned only with the history of the body cells, or the develop-
ment of the young insect from the blastoderm.

THE GERM BAND

In the blastoderm stage (fig. 10 C, E), the developing insect
consists of a mere cellular sac (7) inclosing the yolk (¥) and a

DBl

Vig. 12.—The formation of the germ band (GB) as a thickening
of the cells of the ventral side of the blastoderm, the cells of
the dorsal side, or dorsal blastoderm (DBI), remaining thin.
A, lengthwise section of egg. B, cross-section.

few nuclei left behind in the latter, and is surrounded by the
vitelline egg membrane (D, Vit) and the chorion (fig. 2, Cho).

The next thing that happens in development consists simply of
a thickening of the cells in a band along what is generally the
more convex side of an elongate-oval egg (fig. 12 A). This sur-
face is called the ventral side of the egg, because it is to be the
under surface of the fully formed insect. The ventral thickening
of the blastoderm is known as the germ band (GB). It must be
explained here that the word “ germ,” unfortunately, will appear
in many embryological terms, but without implying that the parts
so named have anything to do with the germ cells. The use of the
word “germ” in two senses was started long ago when distinc-
tions were less finely drawn than now, and more exact terms have
not yet come into general usage. The germ band may be regarded
as the beginning of the embryo; its edges grade off into the thin
blastoderm cells still covering the rest of the egg, and known as
the dorsal blastoderm (fig. 12 A, B, DBZ).
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
THE GERM LAYERS

Soon after the germ band is formed, its middle part begins to
sink inward, and may become separated from the part to either
side by a slight ridge. The germ band thus becomes divided into
two lateral plates (fig. 13 A, ZP, ZP) and a middle plate (MP).
The middle plate is destined to form the strictly internal organs
of the future insect, and it continues to sink inward, in some cases
forming a deep median groove (B), which is then converted into

Fic. 18.—Showing diagrammatically three methods of formation of mesoderm
layer in insects

A, cross-section of egg with germ band differentiated into lateral plates (LP,
LP) and middle plate (MP). B, later stage of same with middle plate curved
in to form a tubular groove, edges of lateral plates coming together below
it. C, still later stage, with edges of lateral plates united, forming the
ectoderm (Hct), and middle plate spread out above the latter as internal
layer of cells, the mesoderm (Meso). D, I, second method of mesoderm
formation: middle plate, separated from edges of lateral plates, becomes meso-
dernn (Meso) when lateral plates unite beneath it. IF, third method, in
which mesoderm (Meso) is formed of cells given off from inner ends of
middle plate cells.

a sunken tube by the approach and union of the edges of the
lateral plates beneath it. TF inally, this middle plate forms a solid
mass of cells which flattens out into a ventral layer (C, dfeso)
between the yolk and the outer layer (ct) which is now con-
tinuous beneath it. The process of the formation of the inner germ
layer differs somewhat from the above type in certain other insects.
In some, for example, the edges of the lateral plates separate from
the middle plate (fig. 13 D) and then grow together beneath it
(2), the middle plate being thus cut off from the lateral plates
and, by a more direct course, converted into the inner germ layer.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 393

In still other species, the cells along the middle part of the germ
band, which part may be slightly grooved (IF), multiply by hori-
zontal division and give off cells from their inner ends which
constitute the inner layer (IF, Meso). The first method of forming
the inner layer is probably to ‘be regarded as the typical one, and
the others as modifications; it is to be noted that the modifications,
as is usually the case in developmental processes, are but short-cuts
to the same end as that attained more laboriously by the ordinary
method of procedure.

By one or another of these methods the insect embryo comes to be
changed from a one-layered to a two-layered condition. In this it
follows the rule of all other animal embryos, though all do not arrive
at the two-layered stage in the same way. Those embryos that con-
sist of a hollow ball of cells in the blastoderm stage become two-
layered simply by an infolding of one wall until they have the form
of a double-walled cup. This method is regarded as typical of
animals in gencral, and such processes as those that occur in insects
wre presumed to be derived from it in some way. With most embryos,
furthermore, the next step consists in the formation of a third layer,
derived from the second, which comes to le between the other two.
The three embryonic layers are then known as the ectoderm (the
outer layer), the mesoderm (the middle layer), and the endoderm
(the inner layer). These cell layers constitute three separate sets of
embryonic building material, each of which will develop into specific
tissues of the adult, and no one of which will normally substitute for
another. ‘The ectoderm, for example, always forms the outermost
covering of the body and all parts derived from it; the endoderm
forms the alimentary canal, or the essential parts of it; and the meso-
derm forms the tissues between, including those of the muscles, the
fat, the heart, the internal reproductive organs. Organs and sys-
tems of organs, however, often result from a combination of tissues
produced by two or by all three of the embryonic layers. In de-
scriptions, therefore, it is better to follow the development of organs
rather than to trace separately the tissues that are produced from
each embryonic layer.

Insect embryos do not closely observe the general rule for the
formation of the embryonic layers. In the two-layered stage, the
outer layer is the ectoderm (fig. 18 C, E, F, #ct), but the inner
layer, as its subsequent history shows, is mostly the mesoderm
(Meso). The endodermal tissues arise from ingrowths at the two
ends of the mesoderm, as will later be described in tracing the forma-
tion of the alimentary canal.

Development proceeds by different rates of growth in the dif-
ferent parts of the germ band and the tissues resulting from it,
shapes being attained by gradual infoldings or outfoldings, with
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

here and there a separation of one part from another. ‘The processes
of development might be imitated with a piece of soft clay or model-
ing wax, manipulated without adding anything and without taking
anything away, pushing it in there, pulling it out here, until the
form of the new creature is at last produced. The insect embryo
ordinarily does not grow in size, except as it utilizes the yolk and
replaces the latter with its own tissues.

cicicléle

}

Fic. 14.—Two stages of the insect embryo, drawn diagrammatically,
probably representing two periods in the evolutionary history of
insects
A, early embryo consisting of embryonic head, or procephalon (Pre),

formed of three segments, and of a body (Bdy) with as many as 18

segments, each but the last with a pair of ventral appendages (Apn).

B, a later stage, showing segment grouping of adult insect; head (H)

of six segments; thorax (7h) of three segments; abdomen (AB) of

at most twelve segments.

Ab, abdomen; Ant, antenna; 2Ant, rudimentary second antenna;
Bdy, body; Cer, cercus; H, compound eye; H, head, of adult com-
position; L, legs; Lm, labrum; Md, mandible; 1Ma, first maxilla;
2Ma, second maxilla; Pre, primitive embryonic head, or procephalon ;
Proc, opening of protodeum (the anus); Stom, opening of stomodeum
(the mouth) ; 7h, thorax.

SEGMENTATION

Very early in the development of the insect embryo the two-
layered germ band becomes marked by crosswise impressions, the
lines appearing near the anterior end first and increasing in number
backward. The continuous germ band thus becomes divided into
a series of segments separated from one another by thinner inter-
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 395

segmental lines. There are never more than 21 segments formed
in all; the number is usually fewer, and it is possible that the last
division is not to be regarded as a true segment. Segmentation of
the body is one of the fundamental characters of insects, but it is
characteristic also of one large group of worms, of the crabs, lob-
sters, and shrimps and all their relations, of the centipedes, and of
the spiders, as well as of other less familiar animals rélated to these
several groups. Evolutionists take this to mean that all these
creatures have had a common ancestry, and that the primitive
ancestral forms were something similar to the segmented worms,
since the latter are the simplest representatives of segmented animals
living to-day. The segmented worms belong to the zodlogical group
known as the Annelida, of which the common earthworm is a mem-
ber; the other segmented animals mentioned above constitute the
Arthropoda, of which the insects form one class, the spiders an-
other, the centipedes another, and the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, and
their relations another called the Crustacea.

In the insect embryo, the first three segments are usually but in-
distinctly marked, since they unite at an early stage to form a large
bilobed swelling at the front end of the body (fig. 14 A, Prec). This
swelling is the first embryonic head, named the procephalon
(“kephalé” being Greek for head), and the embryo at this stage
most likely represents an early ancestral stage in the evolution of
insects, when an insect consisted of a three-segmented head and a
long segmented body. As the embryo develops, however, it adds the
first three primitive body segments to the procephalon and comes
to have a head formed of six segments (fig. 14 B, H). This is the
structure of the head of a modern adult insect, in which, though it
eventually becomes a solid cranium-like piece, there is always to be
discovered traces of a six-segment origin. ‘The next three body seg-
ments become grouped to form the middle division, or thorax (fig.
14 B, Th), of the adult insect. The remaining segments constitute
the abdomen (Ad), the number of segments in which varies in the
adult in different insects, since some of the terminal ones may be
lost during development, or have been lost in the course of evolution.

It is clear that insects in their evolution have tended toward a
erouping of their segments to form a three-part body, and this body
division becomes most accentuated in the higher members of the
class (compare fig. 21, a grasshopper, with figure 15 D, a fly).
Now, the members of the other classes of the Arthropoda have fol-
lowed other lines of specialization in the grouping of the body
segments and in the uses to which they are put. The crustaceans
have aimed at a two-part division of the body, with the principal
viscera in the first, and the second specialized as a swimming organ,
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

and the crustaceans have attained a high degree of development
along this line. The spiders likewise have evolved a two-piece
body (fig. 15 B), but with this difference from the crustaceans,
that the principal viscera are contained in the second body division.
The centipedes (C), on the other hand, have progressed but little
farther than the acquisition of a six-segment head similar to that
of the insects, the rest of the body being composed of a series of
segments all pretty much alike. The insects (D) are characterized
by having a head well separated by a neck from the thorax, by the

lic. 15.—Principal types of animals evolved in the phylum Arthropoda by different
groupings of the segments
A, a crab (Crustacea) with a two-piece body, no distinct head, the principal
viscera in the first body division. B, a spider (Arachnida), also with a two-piece
body and no distinct head, but with principal viscera in second part. C, a centipede
(Myriapoda), with a head, and undivided body of many segments. D, an insect
(Hexapoda), composed of head, thorax, and abdomen, with principal viscera in the
last.
specialization of the thorax as the locomotory part, since it carries
the legs and the wings, and by the development-of the abdomen as

tao} 35
a container for the larger viscera.

THE PRIMITIVE APPENDAGES

Closely connected with the evolution of the segments, in both
insects and other arthropods, is the development of the external
organs attached to them. One of the most conspicuous features
of nearly all members of the Arthropoda is the number of legs or
leg-like structures they have—‘ crawly ” things these creatures are
to most people on this account. Insects, it is true, have only three
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 397

pairs of legs (fig. 29, Z), but on the head there is a pair of long
antenne (Ant) arising from the face, and other paired organs at-
tached about the mouth (Md, Ma, Lb), while on the abdomen there
is commonly an ovipositor, or egg layer, composed of two or three
pairs of blades (Ovp), and near the tip a pair of slender cerci (Cer).
Ali these members arising from the ventral parts of the several body
regions are known collectively as the appendages. The wings (W)
are not appendages in the technical sense, since they arise from the
back and are not of the same nature as the antenne, mouth parts,
legs, and cerci.

The appendages appear on the embryo soon after the segments
are distinguishable, and are at first mere swellings of the germ band,
forming a row of buds on each side along the lines that will later
be the edges of the under surface of the insect. The first and the
last segments never acquire appendages, but the other segments, the
second to the twentieth, inclusive, may have each a pair. Hence,
though few embryos have the entire possible number of appendages,
a “ generalized ” embryo would have the structure shown at B of
figure 14, and this may be taken as the primitive embryonic structure,
and probably as the ancestral one. In most insect embryos the
abdominal appendages are but weakly developed, or are not formed
at all at this stage, those that are present on the adult being devel-
oped at some stage after hatching.

To follow the development of the simple embryonic appendages
into the various adult organs they become would be most interesting,
but it would involve a long dicussion, and the following brief state-
ments are all that can be given here. The first pair of appendages,
those of the second segment (fig. 14 A, Ant), simply elongate into
the antenn of the mature insect and move forward from their orig-
inal lateral position to one usually near the middle of the face. The
appendages of the third segment, often called the second antenne
(2Ant), are at best but rudimentary organs in insects and disappear
as the embryo develops (B), except in one species in which they are
said to persist as small lobes in the adult. The appendages of the
next three segments, the segments which are added to the primitive
head (A, Prec) to form the head of the adult (B, 7), become the
feeding organs, or mouth parts, of the adult. These are the man-
dibles (B, d/d), the first maxille (1M), and the second maxille
(2M), the last uniting with each other to form the liplike labium
of the adult (fig. 29, Zb). The appendages of the thoracic seg-
ments develop into the three pairs of legs (fig. 14 B, Z). The ab-
dominal appendages form various structures of the adult. In most
insects those of the first seven segments disappear; parts of those of
the eighth and ninth segments form the blades of the ovipositor
(fig. 29, Ovp); and those of the eleventh segment (or perhaps of
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 |

the tenth) become the cerci (Cer), when these organs are present.
In some of the lower forms of insects there are rudimentary ap-
pendages in the adult stage on some of the first seven segments of

Fic. 16.—Three methods by which the insect embryo becomes
protected within the egg

A, embryo (Hmb) of a springtail (Jsotoma cinerea) curved
into the yolk on under side of egg. (Figure from Philip-
tschenko. )

B, C, embryo of Lepisma (a fish moth): first (B), at early
stage when deeply sunken into yolk near posterior end of egg,
the opening of the cavity closed to a small pore (a); and
second (C), in later stage when partially revolved to out-
side of egg, in which position it completes its development.
(Figures from Heymons.)

D-I, diagrammatic lengthwise sections of an egg in which
the embryo revolves rear end first into the yolk (D), becom-
ing entirely shut in the latter (EB) in reversed and inverted
position, and then again revolves to surface (F) in original
position before hatching.

G—I, diagrammatic cross-sections of an egg in which embryo
becomes covered by membranes originating in folds of the
blastoderm around its edges (G, b), the folds extending beneath
the embryo (H), and finally uniting to form two membranes
(I), the outer the serosa (Ser), the inner the amnion (Am).

the abdomen, and the caterpillars have tubular legs on this part of
the body (fig. 28), which are perhaps true abdominal appendages
of a primitive structure.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—-SNODGRASS 399

Irom all the evidence bearing on the segments and the appendages,
we may conclude, then, that the ancestral insects were creatures
somewhat like centipedes, consisting of a series of segments having
each a pair of appendages, and that modern insects have evolved
irom this simple form to their present complex structure by a defi-
nite grouping of their segments and a specialization of certain ap-
pendages, accompanied by a loss of those appendages that were
found to be useless. This is not to say that insects are descended
from centipedes. The centipedes have had their own line of descent
from ancestors, which, perhaps, were the same as those of the insects.
The insects have departed farther from the primitive type than have
the centipedes.

THE EMBRYONIC COVERINGS

The embryos of most insects become protected in one way or an-
other from the egg shell during a part or all of their period of de-
velopment. With some of the more primitive species the germ band
doubles upon itself ventrally at an early stage and sinks into the yolk
in the form of an inverted U, in which position it may remain until
the embryo is almost fully formed. A simple procedure of this sort
occurs with the little insects known as springtails, an embryo of
which is shown at A of Figure 16, taken from the work of Philip-
tschenko. It is significant to note that this method is characteristic
also of centipede embryos and of the embryos of many arthropods
other than insects. Another of the lower insects, the fish moth, or
more entomologically, Lepisma, begins its development on the sur-
face of the egg in the usual manner, but it too soon curves and sinks
mto the yolk (fig. 16 B), as shown in an account of its development
by Heymons. Lepisma, however, sinks so deeply into the egg that a
part of the surrounding thin blastoderm is turned in also, and the
mouth of the cavity closes to a small pore. Later, the Lepisma em-
bryo partially emerges and completes its development with its head
and thoracic parts again on the surface (C). Many insects that de-
velop entirely on the surface have the tail end bent forward as if they
had, at some time in their past history, likewise partially emerged
from a sunken position.

Again, there are embryos of other orders of insects that turn into
the yolk tail end first (D) and stretch out within it in a reversed and
inverted position (E), in which position they remain until some
time before they are ready to hatch, when they revolve back to the
surface of the ege (I).

The usual style of embryonic protection among insects, however,
is by means of covering membranes that grow over the embryo from
the surrounding thin part of the blastoderm. In typical cases of this
kind a fold of the blastoderm grows out around the sides of the germ
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

band (fig. 16, G), the edges of which come together beneath the band
and unite below it (H). The corresponding layers of the folds then
become continuous, and the embryo is now shut in beneath two cellu-
lar membranes (1). The outer membrane is called the serosa (Ser),
the inner, the amnion (Am). The serosa commonly separates from
ihe entire surface of the yolk, forming a complete envelope about
the egg inside the vitelline membrane, the amnion covering usually
only the ventral part.

There are many other variations in the details of the formation of
the embryonic coverings in the eggs of different species of insects,
but since these protective membranes have nothing to do with tie
true history of development, we need say no more about them here,

NIR B Nic NbI
LC whee

Fic. 17.—The origin of the central nervous system

A, diagrammatic cross section of young embryo, showing ventral neural ridges
(NIR) and median neural groove (NIG), with masses of primitive nerve cells,
or neuroblasts (Nbl) separated from the ectoderm (Hct) of the ridges and
xroove, forming two lateral cords (LC), and a median cord (MC).

_ B, Cross section through ventral part of young bee embryo, showing neuroblast
cells (Nbl) separating from cells of ectoderm (Hct) in the neural ridges and
groove. (Figure from Nelson.)

C, cross section through older bee embryo, showing the ventral nerve trunk,
consisting at this stage of the lateral cords (LC) and median cord (MC)
entirely separated from the ectoderm (Hct) of body wall. (Figure from Nelson.)

except to note that they are usually broken up, or are drawn back into

the yolk where they are absorbed, before the young insect hatches.
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM

It is most interesting to learn from embryology that the tissue of
the central nervous system, which in the adult is entirely inclosed
within the body, is derived from the ectoderm. Yet, if the develop-
ment of the individual follows the path of ancestral evolution, this
should not be surprising, because the outer surface of the ae
being the part that comes into contact with the environment, should
be the part in which sensitive tissues would be most likely to develop.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—-SNODGRASS 401

In the insect embryo, after the mesodermal groove has closed, there
appears another median ventral groove along the entire length of
the germ band (fig. 17A, NV/G), while a ridge (VR) swells out on
each side of it. Large cells now separate internally from the ecto*
derm of the ridges and the groove, which are the primitive nerve
cells or neuroblasts (NBL). The neuroblasts multiply and form
strands of smaller nerve cells along the midline of the embryo be-
tween the ectoderm (/’ct) and the mesoderm (J/eso), and these
strands of nerve tissue are the foundation of the central nervous
system of the insect. There is a lateral cord (ZC) generated in each
ridge, and a median cord (J/C’) formed above the median groove.
igure 17 A shows the relation of these various tissues in a diagram-
matic way; at B and C of the same figure, taken from the work of
J. A. Nelson on the honeybee, the developing nerve cells are shown
more as they actually appear in cross sections.

Note that the position of the central nerve cord of insects (fig. 21,
VNC) is just the opposite of that of the nerve cord of vertebrates.
Are the nervous systems of these two groups of animals, therefore,
of independent origin, or do insects and other invertebrates with a
ventral nervous system, and vertebrates with a dorsal nervous sys-
tem carry themselves in reversed attitudes?

Almost from the beginning, the insect nervous system shows a
segmentation corresponding with that of the body; indeed, the nerve
segments are often more conspicuous than the body segments. The
segmental nerve cell masses are known as ganglia, and the connective
parts as commisures. Each segment at first contains a pair of
gangha (fig. 18 A. Gng), and the two of each pair are connected
crosswise by a pair of connective strands (Con), besides being con-
nected with the preceding and following ganglia by the commisures
(Com). In the first head segment an optic ganglion (Op@ng) 1s
formed on each side between the central ganglia and the ectodermal
rudiments of the eye (/).

As the embryo develops, the simple and primitive condition of its
nervous system is more or less obscured and lost by a uniting and
condensing of some of the ganglia into larger and more complex
ganglionic masses. First, the central ganglia of the first three head
segments (the segments of the procephalon) and the optic ganglia
unite to form the brain of the adult (fig. 18 B, Br). Next, as the
segments bearing the mouth appendages become added to the head,
the ganglia of these segments unite to form the second compound
ganglionic mass of the head (SwG@ng). When the anterior part of
the alimentary canal is formed (fig. 20 B, Stom) it grows inward
between the crosswise connectives of the second and third pairs of
brain ganglia. Asa consequence the connectives of the third ganglia
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

form a loop beneath the esophagus (fig. 18 B, 8 Con), and the second
nerve mass of the head also lies below the esophagus, for which
reason it is known as the suboesophageal ganglion (figs. 18 B, 21,
SoeGng). The pair of ganglia in each body segment of the adult
condenses into one segmental ganglion. These segmental ganglia
may all remain separate, but usually some of them draw together and
unite, though in different combinations in different insects. The

I'ic. 18.—Diagrams showing the development of the central nervous
system of an insect

A, the nervous system at a stage when it consists of paired seg-
mental ganglia (G@ng) united by lengthwise commissures (Com) between
segments, and by crosswise connectives (Con) in each segment, with
lateral optic ganglia (OpG@ng) in addition to median ganglia in first
head segment. (Other symbols as on Figure 14.)

B, the mature nervous system, consisting of a brain (Br) formed of
first three pairs of segmental ganglia and the optic ganglia (A), a
subeesophageal ganglion (S@G@ng) formed of the three pairs of mouth
part ganglia (A), and of a series of double ganglia in the body seg-
ments, the first three (ThGna) in the thorax, the rest in the abdomen.
The cross connective of the third brain ganglia (8Con) lies behind the
esophagus (@?), because the stomodeum (fig. 20 B, Stom) penetrates
between the second and third pairs of head ganglia.

first three ganglia following the head belong to the thorax (fig. 18 B,
ThGna), and the rest to the abdomen. There are seldom more than
eight separate ganglia in the abdomen, since the terminal ones unite
into a compound ganglion.

A creature, now, with its nervous system buried within its body,
must find itself again in need of means of communication between
the nerve centers and the outlying parts of its system. To supply a
part of this need, nerves grow out from the ganglion cells to the
FROM EGG TO INSECT—-SNODGRASS 403

other organs, and these nerves, carrying stimuli outward, are col-
lectively the motor nerves. To receive information from the ex-
terior, it is necessary that there should be another set of sensory
nerves. These nerves ordinarily have their origin in cells of the
ectoderm and grow inward to the central ganglia, but the develop-
ment of the sensory nerves in insects is not definitely known.

THE BODY WALL

The body wall of an insect deserves especial consideration for
several reasons: Tirst, it serves as a protection against the outer
world, and its modifications of form distinguish the great host of
insect species from one another; second, it serves as a skeleton for
the attachment of the body muscles; and third, it is the seat of a
great variety of sense organs.

The ectoderm layer of the embryo eventually covers the entire
surface of the body and forms also various ingrowths that become

Fic. 19—Structure of the body wall of an insect

A, piece of body wall, showing outer chitinous cuticula (Ct), cellular hypo-
dermis (Hy), and inner basement membrane (BM). B, movable ‘ joints” of
the body wall: a, fold, as between segments, where cuticula is soft and flexible;
b, a membranous suture. C, a ball-and-socket articulation between hard parts
otherwise united by membrane.

organs or parts of organs of the interior. The nervous system, as we
have just seen, is one of these external derivatives of the ectoderm;
others, we shall see presently, are the anterior and posterior parts
of the alimentary canal, the tracheal system, various glands, and
the outlet ducts of the reproductive organs. The part of the ecto-
derm that remains at the surface to form the body wall is commonly
known in insect anatomy as the hypodermis (fig. 19 A, Hy). The
cellular hypodermis is lined by a thin basement membrane (ZB//),
and it forms over its outer surface a chitinous covering, the cuticula
(Ct), the three layers constituting the body wall.

The character of the body wall of an insect is due to the texture
of the cuticula. In caterpillars, maggots, and other soft-bodied in-
sects, the cuticula is soft and flexible; in most adult insects it is hard
and hornlike. The body of the insect, however, is not incased in a
continuous shell, the areas of hard cuticula being interrupted by
lines of soft cuticula. At some places the dividing lines are but
404

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

narrow sutures (fig. 19 B, 6), but at other places, as between the
body segments, the soft “‘ membranous” areas are infolded (@), pro-
ducing a movable joint. In many cases the hard parts of the skele-
ton are articulated by ball-and-socket joints, as at the bases of the

scorer err

IEP
TAT ok
SSE S\oues %

ie eee
oa 3 NIP aS
Ba soo aaa

Fia.

20.—lormation of
(diagrammatic lengthwise sections)
A, the ventral blastoderm differentiated into

the alimentary canal

ectoderm (Het), mesoderm (Meso), and a mass

of cells growing inward at each end, the an-
terior and _ posterior mesenteron rudiments
(AMR and PMR). 8B, mesoderm disappearing

along midline; mesenteron rudiments extending
as cups around the yolk (Y); an ectodermal in-
growth taking place at each end of embryo, the
stomodeum (Stom) in front, the proctodeum
(Proc) behind. C, stomodeum and proctodeum
deeper; lips of mesenteron rudiments approach-
ing each other. D, mesenteron rudiments united
about yolk to form the stomach, or ventriculus
(Vent) ; stomodeum and proctodeum opened into
stomach, the first becoming the csophagus
(G7) and associated parts of alimentary canal
(fig. 21) opening from mouth (Mth), the second
the intestine (Jnt) opening to exterior through
the anus (An).

jaws and between the seg-
ments of the legs, but an ar-
ticulation of this sort in an
insect is merely one between
two extensions of the hard
cuticula from the opposing
edges of the neighboring
plates (fig. 19 C) on the
outside of the continuous
though membranous part of
the body wall. The articu-
lations in the skeleton of in-
sects are thus of quite a dif-
ferent nature from the joints
of a vertebrate skeleton.

The various kinds of
hairs, spines, and scales that
may cover the body and
appendages of an insect are
outgrowths of the cuticula.
Internal ridges and arms
that brace the skeleton or
furnish attachment points
for muscles are ingrowths
of the cuticula within in-
foldings of the hypodermis.
All the sense organs of in-
sects are products of the
ectoderm, and consist of
both cuticular and hypoder-
mal parts, the sensory cells
being specialized hypoder-
mal cells with nerve con-
nections.

THE ALIMENTARY CANAL

To follow the development of the embryo in all its parts at the
same time would be something like trying to follow the plot in one
of those old-fashioned novels that drags along through the lives of
a dozen or more characters and only lets you know what they all
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 405

have to do with one another in the last chapter. Since this account
is not written as a mystery story, it is necessary to mention some
things before we come to them, and go back continually and begin
over again with each set of organs.

The alimentary canal has been developing along with the appen-
dages, the nervous system, the body wall, and other parts not yet
described. Its rudiments appear very early, soon after the mesoderm
is formed, as two masses of cells that grow inward, one at each end of
the latter (fig. 20A, AMR, PMR). These cell masses probably be-
long to the same layer of cells as the mesoderm—1. e., they and the
mesoderm together may constitute the second or inner embryonic
Jayer. This is clear in the embryos of animals that have a simpler
form of development than insects. Anyhow, the two cell masses are
destined to form the stomach of the insect, and for this reason
they should be the endoderm. They are called the anterior and the
posterior mesenteron rudiments (AMR and PMI), since embryolo-
gists prefer to call the insect stomach the “mesenteron,” which is
scientific Greek for “mid intestine.” As the stomach rudiments
grow, the first backward, the other forward in the interior of the
embryo (fig. 19 B), they take the form of cups in some species and of
long bands in others, the edges of which overlap the yolk (2’), and
come together all around the latter (C), and finally completely in-
close it (D). The yolk thus comes to be contained in a closed sac
of endodermal tissue, and this sac is the stomach (D, Vent), usually
known in the adult insect as the ventriculus, which is scientific Latin
for “little stomach.” From now on the yolk, which is the food of the
embryo, must be absorbed through the walls of the stomach in order
to reach the other growing tissues.

The mature insect, however, needs more than a stomach for ali-
mentary purposes. Since it must acquire its food from without, there
must be an intake opening from the exterior at one end, and like-
wise an opening through which waste parts of the food may be
ejected. At the time the stomach rudiments are developing, or in
some species before they appear, there is formed a hollow, tubular
ingrowth of the ectoderm at the base of each, which elongates inward
with the stomach rudiments attached to its inner end (fig. 20 B, C).
The anterior ingrowth is known as the stomodeum (Stom), the
posterior one as the proctodeum (Proc). Before the insect hatches,
usually the inner ends of the stomodeum and the practodeum open
into the corresponding ends of the stomach (7), and the insect in
this manner comes to acquire a continuous alimentary canal open
at each end to the exterior, the stomodeum becoming the gullet, or
esophagus (@), and the protodeum the intestine (nf). With some

76041—-26, 20

406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

insects, such as bees and wasps, whose larve live in cells, and para-
sites of the same order whose larve live in the bodies of other living
insects, the opening between the stomach and the intestine is not
made until near the end of the larval life.

In adult insects, the stomodeal part of the alimentary canal becomes
differentiated into a pharynx,.a true csophagus, a large saclike
crop (fig. 21, Cr), and often a fourth part, or proventriculus. Like-
wise, two parts are usually distinguished in the intestine. From the
anterior end of the latter there grow out a varying number of excre-
tory tubes, the Malphigian tubules (fig. 21, Mal). All the parts
derived from the ectodermal stomodeum and proctodeum are char-
acterized by being lined with an intima continuous with the cuticula
of the outer body wall. The stomach, being of endodermal tissue,
has no such lining.

x Wi = y
WR LW \ \\. RAN
ia

SoeGng VNC Int

lig. 21.—Diagrammatic lengthwise section of a grasshopper, showing
general location of principal internal organs
An, anus; Ant, antenna; Br, brain; Or, crop (a part of the stomod-
eum); Ht, heart; Jnt, intestine; Mal, Malpighian tubules; Mth, mouth;
dj, cesophagus; SoeGng, subesophageal ganglion; Vent, stomach (ven-
triculus) ; VNC, ventral nerve cord; W, wings.

THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

The chemical changes that the protoplasm of living things under-
goes in the process of keeping alive require a supply of oxygen and
produce an excess of carbon dioxide. Hence, there goes on a
constant “exchange” or respiration of these gases between the
organism and the outer world. Small, soft-bodied animals, and
embryos within the egg respire directly through the skin. But
most animals in the adult stage have some special anatomical ar-
rangement for bringing the outside air into the body where the
tissues will have closer or easier access to it. Some have adopted
and evolved one method, some another. Insects have developed a
system of air tubes, or tracheew, that branch profusely through-
out the body (fig. 22) and end in thin-walled tracheoles on all the
tissues that need oxygen for their maintenance.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—-SNODGRASS 407

The trachez are ingrowths of the ectoderm and appear first as
pits along the sides of the body. The pits deepen into tubes, the
tubes fork out into branches, the branches subdivide until the
trachee from each opening, or spiracle, become a finely branched
system like the roots of a plant. In most insects, some of the first
branches unite with corresponding branches
from successive and opposite spiracles, thus pro-
ducing lengthwise and crosswise connecting
trunks.

It is not certain whether the primitive spir-
acles are to be regarded as segmental or inter-
segmental in origin; they are later subject to
considerable shifting of position, though in
general they remain on the sides of the seg-
ments. There are usually two pairs on the
thorax and eight on the abdomen in adult
insects (fig. 29 Sp), but there is evidence to
suggest that there was originally a pair of
spiracles to each of the segments. The trachee,
being of ectodermal origin, are all lined
with a continuation of the cuticula of the
body wall.

ECTODERMAL GLANDS AND GENOCYTES

A great variety of glands are found in
insects that open on the surface of the skin or
parts derived from the ectoderm. Chief among
these are the salivary glands opening near the

Fig. 22.—Respiratory
system of a _ cater-
mouth and the glands of the female that form _ pinar, showing the

a substance used either to glue the eggs to a — Jatge tracheal trunks
; (a) along sides of

support or to make a covering for them. _ poay, the crosswise
Other glands, however, form disagreeable- connectives (0), the

E 2 4 ? LS ° principal smaller
smelling substances, the odor of which is sup- Beartebea tat hendu( ra)

posed to ward off enemies, and some glands sainede deck tai
secrete substances that are used as food by ries of breathing ap-
other members of the species or by members of —ertures, or spiracles
other associated species. Honeycomb is a waxy yahoo wach He

product of glands in the wall of the abdomen of worker bees.
and the same bees feed the brood with a “royal jelly ” secreted by
glands opening into the mouth. All these glands are simply ecto-
dermal cells that have acquired special functions. Some glands are
one-celled (fig. 23 A, GIC7) and remain flush with the surface,
perhaps penetrated by a tubular ingrowth of the surface cuticula,
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

which serves as an outlet canal, or duct (ct). Others are simple,
hollow, tubular, or saclike ingrowths of the body wall (B), while
still others are of the same nature but are complicated in form by
being branched or by having secondary outgrowths from the main
tube (C), the latter often being enlarged to form a reservoir (/’es.).

Not much is known concerning internal ductless glands in in-
sects, but many species have certain large, free cells within the
body cavity, known as @nocytes, which appear to be of this nature.
Most investigators claim that the cenocytes arise from the ectoderm
of the embryo along the sides of the body. If they are glandular
in function, they are probably, then, ectodermal glands cells de-

lic. 23.—Three types of insect glands derived from the ectoderm.
A, a one-celled gland (G/Cl) which is an enlarged cell of the hypo-
dermis (Hy), containing often a tubular ingrowth (Det) of the cutic-
ula (Ct) serving as an outlet duct. B, a simple many-celled gland
(Gl) formed as a hollow ingrowth of the body wall, in which the cutic-
ula becomes the lining intima (Jn), and the narrowed neck serves as a
duct (Det). C, a compound many-celled gland produced by a branching
of type B, often with an enlarged part of the common duct (Dect)
serving as a reservoir (Res).
tached from their original sites and become free, internal, one-
celled organs. In the head, just behind the brain, there is a pair
of small cellular bodies, known as the corpora allata, likewise
derived from the ectoderm, and these, too, are often supposed to

be internal ductless glands.

THE MUSCLES

The muscle tissue is derived from the mesoderm, though it later
becomes intimately attached to the ectoderm. The mesoderm is at
first usually a solid layer of cells (fig. 18, C, EK, F, Meso) in the
ventral part of the young embryo, continuous from one side to the
other, but as it grows upward in the sides it breaks apart in the
middle and leaves an empty space beneath the alimentary canal.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 409

The mesodermal wings then become split into outer and inner
layers, and the spaces between them, joined with that just noted
beneath the alimentary canal, constitute the body cavity of the
insect (fig. 24, BC). The outer mesoderm layers (Meso) become
applied to the body wall; the inner ones (/Meso) to the wall of
the alimentary canal (“nd). From the first are formed principally
the muscles of the body and appendages, and the fat tissue; the
second forms the muscles of the stomach, and the reproductive
organs.

A muscle consists of fibers, and each fiber appears to be a highly
specialized cell, except for the fact that it contains many nuclei.
Investigators differ as to
whether the fiber is a prod-
uct of many cells that have
united, or whether it is a
single cell, the nucleus of
which has many times di-
vided without accompany-
ing division of the cell itself.
In either case the building
of the complex muscular
system of the adult, per-
fectly adjusted to all the
mechanical needs of the in-
sect, from the layers of
simple mesodermal cells is 7 92 i ey atonal orga
one of the most remarkable — are mostly defined

things in insect development. Apn, segmental appendage (if present); BC,
body cavity; Dph, dorsal diaphragm; DS, dorsal

sinus; Met, ectoderm; EMeso, external mesoderm
THE FAT TISSUE layer (somatic layer); End, stomach (endo-
derm); GCls, germ cells; Ht, heart; JMeso,

t 5 inner mesoderm layer (splanchnic layer); Rep,
In the body cavity of reproductive organ; Tra, outer end of trachea

insects there is a widely and opening to exterior (spiracle) ; VNC, ventral
scattered tissue consisting ie ce

of large cells, sometimes compactly united, sometimes loosely held to-
gether, that constitutes what is ordinarily called the “ fat body.” The
name is only partly appropriate, for, though the cells always store up
within them a large amount of fatty oil (fig. 25, #7), they also form
and hold in storage proteid materials in the form of small granules
(Alb) and, in some insects, animal starch or glycogen. The fat body
is really an organ for elaborating reserve food materials, and is of
greatest importance in those insects that change from a wormlike
larva to the adult through an intervening pupal stage. The ma-
terials in the fat cells then serve as nutriment during the recon-
structive period, when the insect takes no food.

410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The fat tissue is derived from the mesoderm. It is present only
in small amount in the embryo, but increases rapidly in the young
insect after hatching, often forming great masses filling all avail-
able space in the body cavity, particularly in the larve of those
insects that must prepare for a final metamorphosis into the adult.

THE CIRCULATORY ORGANS

Different kinds of animals do not necessarily have every system
of organs equally developed. ‘The insect, for example, has an
elaborate respiratory system, but its circulatory equipment is com-
paratively meager. Its “blood” is
the slightly tinted liquid that fills
the body cavity and directly bathes
the tissues in the latter. This fluid is
kept in circulation by a long pulsating
tube, or heart, lying just beneath the
midline of the back.

As the upper undivided edges of
the mesoderm layers approach each
other from opposite sides in the dorsal
part of the embryo, their apposing
faces become hollowed lengthwise, and
when finally the two layers meet the
Fic, 25.—Typical fat cells of an edges unite to form a tube about the

insect during a stage preceding .
metamorphosis: ‘The cell proto. space between them. This tube is the

hig tal (ho “ee saanee "beart (figs: 24, 27, Hy). bbe meso
granules of proteid material derm cells extending outward from
(Alb)
the heart on each side are reduced to
thin sheets, together forming the diaphragm (Dp/), a membrane in
the adult, in which are developed fan-shaped bundles of muscle
fibers attached at one end to the body wall and at the other to the
ventral wall of the heart. The diaphragm shuts off a space, the dor-
sal sinus (fig. 24, DS), in the upper part of the body, which incloses
the heart, and the blood must, therefore, first enter the dorsal sinus be-
fore it enters the heart. It gains access to the former either through
open spaces along the edges of the diaphragm or through perfora-
tions of the latter, and it then enters the heart through apertures in
the sides of the heart walls. In the abdomen the heart becomes seg-
mentally enlarged into chambers, but in the thorax it remains tubular
and extends into the head where it opens beneath the brain.
The course of the blood and the structure of the heart in the adult
msect are shown diagrammatically in Figure 26. The pulsations of

FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS 41]

the heart suck the blood into it through its lateral openings, or ostia
(Ost), drive it forward, and then expel it into the head. From here
it percolates backward between the organs of the body cavity, goes
into the dorsal sinus, and finally reénters the heart. The number of
chambers in the heart varies in different groups of insects. Usually
there is a pair of ostia to each chamber

and one pair of “wing muscles,” but ae ap

these features, likewise, are not constant
in different insects.

THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS

The internal parts of the reproductive
organs, in which the germ cells are lodged
and in which these cells undergo their
development into the spermatozoa or
eggs, according to sex, appear first as
thickenings of the upper parts of the
inner mesoderm layers in the abdominal
region of the body. A strand of cells
proceeds rearward from each, which be-
comes the duct, opening usually into a
single, median outlet tube formed as an
ingrowth from the ectoderm near the
posterior end of the body. The germ
cells (fig. 10 B, C, GCls), during the
growth of the embryo, wander about for
some time in the other tissues, but at last

they come to their abiding places in the Fic. 26.—Diagram of the typ-
ical structure of the heart

p : ie
reproductive organs (figs. 24, 27, Rep.). pndiMaingnte oii oPRan TasecE.
and the course of the circu-
THE YOUNG INSECT lating blood (indicated by

arrows)
The story of insect embryology, as Ao, aorta, or anterior tubu-

larietiy Poutlined ganp the: “preceding «de=..J2) Bet of heart without Jat
5 eral openings; Dph, membran-

scriptions, shows how a complex animal ous diaphragm; Ht, anterior
comes into existence from the simplest ‘"ee chambers of heart; Mel,
z : 2 muscles of diaphragm, attached
possible beginning. First, a group of laterally to body wall; Ost,
primitive body cells is formed by the °'°w™ ©” lateral opeming-into
mae a = Y heart chamber.
repeated division of a fertilized egg
nucleus. These cells continue to multiply and their increasing
descendants segregate themselves into other groups, which subdivide
again into minor groups, until there is a group of cells representing
each tissue of the adult animal. Compound organs are formed
either from specialized cell groups all of the same tissue, or by the
union of parts derived from cell groups of independent origin.
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

There is nothing visible or otherwise discernible yet discovered
within the growing organism to show what endows its cells with this
wonderful power of arranging themselves into a new animal, which
is at the same time almost a replica of the parent form; but there is

He

Fic. 27.—Cross section through dorsal part of abdomen of
embryo of male honeybee. (Figure from Petrunkevitch)
Dph, dorsal diavhragm; Hct, ectoderm; HMeso, external

mesoderm layer; Hnd, stomach (endoderm); GCls, germ

cells; Ht, heart; JMeso, inner mesoderm layer applied to
stomach wall; Rep. reproductive organ.

also no good reason for supposing that our ignorance of the secrets
of development and heredity is different from any other special case
of ignorance that has been dispelled by research. There is un-

Fig. 28.

Various forms of young insects
A, a young grasshopper. B, a young roach a few minutes after hatching. C, the
young of a moth ( a caterpillar). D, a young wasp. E, a young fly (a maggot).

doubtedly a cause for the vital processes that transform the egg into
the mature embryo, and this cause will be understandable when it
is discovered, though, as with all other things in nature, it will be
understandable only in terms of incomprehensible forces.
FROM EGG TO INSECT—SNODGRASS A13

Along with the building of the tissues and organs within the body,
there goes on a modeling of the external form into that which the
creature will have at hatching. With most of the higher animals,
the young at hatching or at birth is recognizable as the progeny of
its parents, and this is true of many insects, such as grasshoppers
(fig. 28, A) and roaches (B). A young fly (EK), a young bee or wasp
(D), or a young moth or butterfly (C), however, comes out of the
ege in a form whose parentage would never be guessed from its
physical characters; those insects must later undergo a transforma-

Fic. 29.—Diagram of external structure of a theoretically complete
mature insect (female), showing appendages of one side only

Ab, abdomen, of 12 segments (/—XII) ; Ant, antenna; Cer, cercus;
E, compound eye; H, head; Ly, Le, Ls, legs of first, second, and third
thoracic segments; Lb, labium (the united second maxille, fig. 14B,
2Ma); Lm, labrum; Md, mandible ; 1Ma#, maxilla; Ovp, ovipositor ;
Sp, spiracle; Th, thorax, of three segments (1, 2, 3); We, Ws, wings,
attached to second and third thoracic segments.

tion, or metamorphosis, before they attain the form of the mature
insect of their species. The double lives that such insects lead en-
ables them to take advantage of two quite different environments
during their lifetime. In the first, or larval, period the young in-
sect specializes on feeding, and its anatomy is modeled to that end;
in the second period the mature insect devotes its energy mostly to
the business of mating and egg laying, and its construction is adapted
to these purposes, but, being the adult, its form is already that of its
species. Hence, it is clear that the form of the young is one acquired
by a departure from the ancestral path. To understand the advan-
tage of this duality to the insect, we have only to imagine how much
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

simpler our own existence would be if, during the first half of our
life, we could earn and lay by a sufficient amount of money to be in-
dependent during the second half, when we could marry and raise
families without working at anything else, and without worrying
over the need of providing food, or paying the rent, or the mortgage.
Insects, in fact, have adopted many advanced ideas during their evo-
lution, and as a consequence they own the earth. The principle in-
convenience of their double life is in getting from one stage into the
other. ‘This involves a process of thorough reconstruction, or meta-
morphosis, during which the creature is helpless and assumes the
form known as the pupa. The subject of metamorphosis is one of
the most interesting phases in the study of insects, but metamorpho-
sis belongs to the postembryonic period of development and is, there-
fore, beyond the limits of our present theme.
THE ROLE OF VERTEBRATES IN THE CONTROL OF
INSECT PESTS

By W. L. McATEE

Assistant in charge, Division of Food Habits Research,
United States Biological Survey.

[With 7 plates]

That vertebrates eat insects is common knowledge. What their
destruction of these creatures means to the welfare of man, however,
is appreciated by comparatively few. Indeed, even at this late date,
it must be confessed that we know so little about the food habits of
vertebrates other than birds that it is impossible to give a very
satisfactory account of them. The unavoidable result of this situa-
tion is that the present paper while technically embracing all of the
vertebrates, practically is devoted very largely to birds.

However, to give other members of the backboned clan their due,
we may begin by adverting to a fact made familiar by the work of
the Bureau of Fisheries, as well as by that of the Bureau of
Entomology, that certain small fishes are effective enemies of mos-
quito larve, and that they can be used to advantage by man in his
warfare against these pests. This seems to be the only outstanding
credit to the fishes, although trout, and no doubt other fishes in
infested waters, devour many black-fly larve. The feeding of fishes
on land insects dropping into the water is of little economic sig-
nificance, because desultory, and affecting ind:vidual insects, a large
proportion of which would be eliminated anyway by drowning.

Among the class that is ranged next to the fishes—namely, the
amphibians—we have numerous insectivorous forms, but because of
their aquatic habitat many of them come but little in contact with
insects injurious to man. The toads constitute a striking exception
to this rule, especially the common forms that frequent cultivated
fields and gardens. ‘Toads are practically omnivorous in relation to
invertebrates occurring in their habitat, and if an insect living on or
near the ground is abundant enough to be the cause of damage we
may be sure that any toads in the area will be feeding upon it. The
common toad has a good record as a predator upon millipeds, ants,

415
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

cutworms, the army worm, tent caterpillar, gypsy caterpillar, Jane
bugs, rose chafer, potato beetle, and the alfalfa weevil.

The food-habits of the class of reptiles are less definitely known
than those of any other vertebrates. So far as snakes are con-
cerned it appears that only a few of the smaller species are de-
cidedly insectivorous, and they are such comparatively scarce ani-
mals that they can have but little effect upon the numbers of insects.
The turtles, being chiefly aquatic, are in the same position as the
water-loving amphibians—that is, they come in very slight contact
with insects noxious to man. The lizards are highly insectivorous,
but are rather meagerly represented over most of the United
States. Some of the western and southwestern species, how-
ever, appear to be important enemies of grasshoppers and ants,
and to be generally useful as insect destroyers. In hot countries
lizards are more numerous, active, and voracious, and have been
credited by some writers with being as valuable individually as are
insectivorous birds.

Among mammals we have some highly insectivorous groups as
the bats, shrews, and moles. The exact nature of the food of bats
is little known but it includes all sorts of flying insects of sizes
these animals can swallow, including mosquitoes, but the latter
certainly to no such extent as has sometimes been claimed. Shrews
and moles get numerous ants, wireworms, cutworms, and white
grubs, and doubtless do more good than harm. The short-tailed
shrew has proved to be one of the principal enemies of the larch
sawfly and in New Brunswick, it has been ascertained that 40
per cent of the cocoons are destroyed by this shrew. Arboreal
squirrels sometimes feed freely on scale insects and other tree
pests; the western ground squirrels eat quantities of injurious in-
sects, such as cutworms, wireworms, and grasshoppers; and the
so-called grasshopper mice perhaps deserve their name, and un-
doubtedly are more highly insectivorous than the majority of their
tribe. The armadillo, which occurs in the United States only in
Texas, is a voracious consumer of insects, especially white grubs
and their adults, caterpillars, and ants, and the badger occasionally
makes a hearty meal of grasshoppers, immature cicadas, or beetles.
Of our larger mammals, skunks certainly are the greatest enemies
of insects. Army worms, tobacco worms, and white grubs are
favorite prey of these animals. In Manitoba, Mr. Norman Criddle,
field officer, Canadian Entomological Service, estimated that on one
8-acre tract skunks destroyed 14,520 white grubs to the acre. Cut-
worms, the potato beetle, and grasshoppers are other insect pests
eaten by skunks, and the common eastern skunk once proved so
efficient an enemy of the hop grub in New York, that the first
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 417

legislation protecting the animal in that State was passed at the
demand of the hop growers. Investigations in New Mexico by
the Biological Survey showed skunks also to be the most important
natural enemies of the range caterpillar.

While we must confess that we do not know as much about the
food habits of vertebrates, other than birds, as we should know and as
we shall know when investigations now in progress are completed,
we can safely assert that no investigation is likely to upset the
present assumption that as enemies of insects, birds stand supreme
among vertebrates. If for no other reasons, we are thus confident
because birds are more numerous in species and individuals than
other insectivorous vertebrates, and their greater mobility enables
them to concentrate quickly where unusual food supplies become
available—that is, at the scene of insect outbreaks.

The most extensive studies of the food of birds ever made have
been carried on by the United States Biological Survey, but these
investigations for the most part have been directed toward learning
what birds eat in general, rather than determining the explicit effect
of their food habits upon certain insects or other pests. The Survey
has a great store of data as to the items of bird food, and the num-
bers and proportions in which they are taken; it can furnish com-
prehensive lists of the bird enemies of a vast number of insects, but
it is not in a position to report from its own resources, what degree
of control birds attain over this or that particular insect pest.

In fact opportunities to get such information come infrequently
and the observers most likely to be favored are the men in the field
who are working continuously upon an insect outbreak. These men,
usually, are economic entomologists, numbers of whom, fortunately,
have made good use of their opportunities, and it is largely upon
their work that the remainder of this article is based. The writer
is the more justified in quoting their findings so freely since economic
ornithology, not only in this, but in other countries, has been fostered
and inspired chiefly by entomologists.

Among the earliest champions of the value of birds in this country
were Dr. William Le Baron, of Illinois, and Dr. Isaac P. Trimble, of
New Jersey, both well-known entomologists. These gentlemen did
not neglect the examination of the contents of bird stomachs, but it
may be a surprise to learn that Dr. Townend Glover, first entomolo-
gist of the United States Department of Agriculture, not only ex-
amined the stomach contents of many birds, but had in the old agri-
cultural museum a collection of mounted birds with their food in
vials beside them. Furthermore, one of his annual reports, that for
1865, was devoted largely to a general account of the economic value
of birds including results of his original investigations. The United
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

States Entomological Commission of the seventies did not fail to
give due credit to bird enemies of the insect pests it studied, and in
the report on the Rocky Mountain locust, gave to the world the most
extensive paper on the food of birds that had appeared up to that
time. The researches and philosophical writings of Dr. S. A. Forbes,
of Illinois, during the eighties earned for him the name of founder of
the science of economic ornithology. The Biological Survey which
has carried the study of the economic relations of birds farther than
has ever been done elsewhere, had its origin as a section of economic
ornithology in what then was the Division of Entomology. <A1-
though this arrangement did not last long, the first two reports pub-
lished by the new organization on the food of insectivorous birds
contained technical sections on the insect food, written by those emi-
nent entomologists, Dr. C. V. Riley, and Dr. E. A. Schwarz.

Not only did entomologists have much to do with the origin and
establishment of economic ornithology in this country but their in-
terest in the subject has been actively maintained to the present day.
References to the value of birds are especially numerous in the writ-
ings of the later entomologists, Lintner, Slingerland, and Hewitt,
among the deceased, and among the living, Weed, Bruner, Sanderson,
Felt, Hopkins, and Chittenden. In Canada Dr. John D. Tothill has
been especially active and has published a series of splendid pape-s
on the natural control of insects, in every one of which birds have
been given great credit.

In a recent work on the Principles of Insect Control,’ the
authors, Messrs. Robert A. Wardle and Philip Buckle, devote an
entire chapter to bird encouragement. In summing up the economie
status of British birds they state that the “cuckoos, swifts, lap-
wings, woodpeckers, and the majority of Passerine birds, particu-
larly Paride (tits), Turdide (thrushes), Muscicapide (flycatchers),
and Hirundinide (swallows), are of the utmost value” (p. 61).

Having by now made the impression, the writer hopes, that eco-
nomic ornithology after all is very much an entomological subject,
we will proceed to a systematic discussion of the value of birds in
insect control. But while so doing we must avoid anthropomorphic
reasoning to the effect that birds prey upon this or that insect to
assist mankind. On the contrary, whatever they do in the way of
feeding upon insects is for reasons entirely their own, but it so hap-
pens that in carrying on their customary activities they sometimes
do great good in the suppression of insect pests.

We must remember also that insects are not the sole food of birds
but that the birds draw on all the sources of food available to them,

1 Manchester Univ. Press, 1923, 295 pp.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 419

including the vegetable as well as the animal kingdom. Probably
half of the total food of birds in general is of vegetable origin.
Again, all sorts of animals from protozoans to mammals are eaten,
and insects do not contribute more than their due proportion. In
short, we must bear in mind that birds feel no obligation to help us,
nor do they, as we might wish, feed exclusively upon insects. These
limiting factors understood, we shall be the more able to appreciate
the activities of birds at their true worth.

Despite the adaptive radiation in food habits which birds exhibit,
and which leads to more or less specialization in various groups,
few kinds are so absolutely bound to peculiar feeding methods that
they can not forsake them temporarily when some food becomes
available in unusual abundance. For a simply stated illustration
of this phenomenon the writer draws on Dr. Isaac P. Trimble, the
pioneer economic entomologist of New Jersey, who, in his Treatise
on the Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees, published in 1865,
wrote:

On the 5th of May, 1864, I shot seven different birds; they had all been
feeding freely on small beetles, and some of them on nothing else. There was
a great flight of these small beetles that day; the atmosphere was teeming
with them. <A few days later, the air was filled with ephemera flies, and the
same species of birds were then feeding upon these (p. 113).

A more elaborate example of the same tendency on the part of
birds is Prof. Samuel Aughey’s findings during his studies of bird
enemies of the Rocky Mountain locust in the sixties and seventies.
Tempted by the abundance and accessibility of these insects, birds
of every kind flocked to the feast. Land birds and water birds, tree
frequenters and plains dwellers, whether normally fish, flesh, seed,
or fruit eaters—all, from the diminutive humming bird to the
largest hawks, came to feed upon grasshoppers.

Not only is a further striking instance of this phenomenon re-
corded by Dr. S. A. Forbes as a result of his study of birds in relation
to cankerworms in Illinois, but the conclusions to be drawn are stated
so clearly as to be well worth quoting. Dr. Forbes says:

Birds of the most varied character and habits, migrant and resident, of all
sizes, from the tiny wren to the bluejay, birds of the forest, garden and meadow,
those of arboreal and those of terrestrial habit, were certainly either attracted
or detained here by the bountiful supply of insect food, and were feeding freely
upon the species most abundant. That 35 per cent of the food of all the birds
congregated in this orchard should have consisted of a single species of insect,
is a fact so extraordinary that its meaning can not be mistaken. Whatever
power the birds of this vicinity possessed as checks upon destructive irruptions
of insect life was being largely exerted here to restore the broken balance
of organic nature.

2 Forbes, S. A.: The Regulative Action of Birds upon Insect Oscillations, Bull. Ill. State
Laboratory of Natural History, Vol. I, No. 6, May, 1883, pp. 20-21.
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Whether the pressure thus put on irruptions of insects is ever effec-
tive in securing a worth while degree of control is a topic upon which
it is natural to be skeptical. Insects are so numerous and propagate
so rapidly that it would seem they would always evade control by
so limited a force as the bird population. Yet when we consider the
results of the feeding habits of birds in other and more easily ob-
served directions we begin to see that their consuming capacity is
certainly impressive. For instance, consider the devouring of wild
fruits by birds; it is quite the customary thing for a flock of birds
to resort constantly to a certain tree or group of trees for food until
the entire crop of fruit is consumed. ‘This process is illustrated
nearly every year in the parks of Washington. When the spring
migrating impulse is on, cedar birds usually come to the parks in
jarge numbers, and it is their habit to devote themselves to one kind
of berry until it is gone. For instance, should they begin on holly
they will finish all the holly berries in the Smithsonian Grounds,
jet us say, then they will next be found in the Capitol Grounds or
in some other park working on the hollies there. Then they may
turn their attention to cedar berries, if there is a crop, or to barber-
ries, or to other fruit available. I have observed in various years that
after cleaning up the berries they have even consumed the pods of
the Sophora trees, feeding wastefully upon them at first, but later
descending to the ground to go over again the remnants of the feast.
I have seen on different occasions flocks of blackbirds, or of purple
finches, or robins consume the entire crop of dogwood berries, not
only of one or a few trees, but of all the trees in a woodland. Indeed,
this manner of feeding is quite characteristic of birds.

If birds can do such things, if they consume in a brief time all
the berries on a tree, is it not equally possible that they can consume
likewise all of the insects? The answer is an emphatic and in-
disputable “yes.” Such clean-up work not only can be, but has
been done, and there is here given a summary of the recorded in-
stances so far as they have been assembled.

For convenience the cases are arranged by orders of insects, and
it will be understood when the word control is used, that our
authority has made a statement indicating a high degree of control,
and the word suppression when the insect concerned has been locally
extirpated. The latter cases have already been treated at length
in an article entitled “ Local Suppression of Insect Pests by Birds,”
published in the Smithsonian Report for 1920. All data used in
the following notes on control pertain either to the United States
or Canada.

31922. Pp. 411-438, 3 pls.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 421
TERMITES OR WHITE ANTS (ISOPTERA).

At least three times the writer has personally made the observa-
dion, and he has had similar reports from others, that English
sparrows, discovering a swarm of winged termites emerging from
the nest, prey upon them so persistently that but few individuals
escape.

GRASSHOPPERS AND CRICKETS (ORTHOPTERA).

There are at hand 31 instances of control and 19 of suppression
of these insects in 13 States and 1 Canadian province. Among
the authorities for the statements are included the following en-
tomologists: Prof. Cyrus Thomas, Prof. Lawrence Bruner, Dr. E.
Dwight Sanderson, Mr. Norman Criddle, Dr. H. C. Severin, and
Messrs. A. C. Burrill, J. R. Horton, C. KE. Pemberton, C. L. Corkins,
and Max Reeher. Doctor Sanderson, in his report* on the differ-
ential locust (Mfelanoplus differentialis) in Texas, states that birds
“undoubtedly did more than any other natural agency to check
the pest.” Mr. Reeher remarks that birds were so efficient in con-
trolling the coulee cricket (Peranabrus scabricollis) in the Dry
Coulee region, Washington State, in 1918, that arrangements for
a 1919 control campaign were abandoned. Meadowlarks were al-
most entirely responsible for a complete clean-up of the area.*

Mr. C. ©. Clute relates the following instance of money saved
through attracting bird enemies of grasshoppers in Iowa:

I know one farmer in particular who lost during one summer three rows
of corn 40 rods long. The corn grew next to a fence row heavily sodded with
bluegrass, which produced swarms of grasshoppers. For the sake of the
experiment alone, for this farmer was a skeptic, last spring he put up 21
bird houses, placed 2 rods apart, on the fence along the 40 rods. : The houses
were some that he and the boys had made, during the winter months, from
dry goods boxes obtained in town. Thirteen of the 21 houses were inhabited
during the following summer, 6 by wrens, 4 by bluebirds, and 3 by colonies
of purple martins. The grasshoppers that summer made a rich living for
the birds, and when the fall came that farmer had the-satisfaction of gather-
ing 23 bushels of corn from the three rows that grew next to the fence,
right where there had been no corn at all the year before.°

An account of bird control of Orthoptera can hardly omit refer-
ence to the historic case of suppression of the Mormon cricket
(Anabrus simplex) by California gulls in the early days in Utah.
Hon. George Q. Cannon, speaking of this insect and its bird enemies

4 Bull. 57, U.S. Bur. Ent. 1906, p. 22.
5 In Burrill, A. C. Calif. Fish and Game, 6, No. 1, Jan., 1920, p. 38.
6 Towa Conservation, January—March, 1917, Vol. I, No. 1, p. 12,

7 6041—26——28
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

in an address before the Third National Irrigation Congress, in
Denver, 1894, said :7

After our grain had been sown and our fields looked promising, black
crickets came * * * by the millions and devoured our crops. I have seen
fields of wheat as promising as they could be in the morning and by evening
they would be as bare as a man’s hand—devoured by these crickets. * * *
To us who lived in Utah about that time it seemed there was a visitation
of Providence to save us. Sea gulls came by hundreds and by thousands, and
before the crops were entirely destroyed these gulls devoured the insects, so
that our fields were entirely freed from them.

This testimony is corroborated by that of a correspondent of the
first entomologist of the United States Department of Agriculture,
Dr. Townend Glover, who records ® that “ Mr. James McKnight, who
lives in Salt Lake City, states that when the Mormons first emigrated
to Utah this cricket appeared in immense swarms, destroying their
whole crops of wheat, etc., and that the second year they also
appeared, but providentially, or miraculously, as it was deemed by
the Mormons, vast flocks of white gulls suddenly appeared and
destroyed the crickets to such an extent as to almost eradicate them
for the time being, thus saving the remainder of the crop, upon
which alone the half-starved Mormons had to rely for food for the
next season. Since that time these birds are held almost sacred in
Utah.” It may be added that a monument commemorating the

valuable aid of the gulls has been erected in Salt Lake yea at a cost
of $40,000.

CICADAS, PLANT LICE, ETC. (HOMOPTERA)

Among entomologists, Dr. John B. Smith, Prof. F. M. Webster,
and Dr. C. R. Marlatt agree that the periodical cicada is practically
doomed to extinction in city parks or other localities where numerous
English sparrows have a chance at them. Five cases of practically
complete local extirpation of this insect by these sparrows are on
record for the States of Illinois, Ohio, New York, and the District of
Columbia. Doctor Marlatt also records the absolute failure of these
insects to establish themselves even after artificial planting of
enormous numbers in the Agricultural Grounds, because of the at-
tacks of crow blackbirds.

For the pear psylla Prof. M. V. Slingerland gives an instance of
control by birds in New York, Mr. E. H. Forbush one of the sup-
pression in Massachusetts, and Mr. H. A. Surface another for New
York State. An account of the latter instance is of value in showing
how birds were put to practical use in solving a problem in economic
entomology.

7 Irrigation Age, Vol. VII, No. 4, pp. 188-189, Oct., 1894.
8 Rep. Commr. Agr., p. 79, 1871.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 423

A prominent grower of pears in New York reported to us that he had lost many
of his pear crops, amounting to thousands of bushels, by this pest, and in the
fall, as it was present in great numbers on the trunks of the trees, it appeared
that it would pass the winter there and destroy his crops again next year.
However, the white-breasted nuthatches came to the orchard in numbers, and
he encouraged them to remain by fastening pieces of fat meat in his trees and
protected them from molestation. The nuthatches remained and fed on the
pest all winter and cleaned up the trees so effectively that he could scarcely
find any of the insects in the spring.®

In the case of plant lice we have one record by Mr. H. A. Surface,
of control of the apple aphis, in Pennsylvania, and the following 5
cases of suppression: Pea louse, one in Massachusetts, by Mr. E. H.
Forbush, and one in New Jersey, Dr. John B. Smith; rose aphis,
one in California, Mr. H. M. Russell; and unidentified aphids, one
in Washington State and one in Massachusetts.

The writer has made one investigation of the bird enemies of
plant lice, the insect being the green bug or wheat aphis. On a 200-
acre farm in North Carolina, where wheat, rye, and oats were
severely attacked by green bugs, it was found that birds were very
effective in destroying the pests. The outbreak was at its height
during the migration season of such birds as the goldfinch and the
vesper and chipping sparrows, which with other species on the
farm numbered more than 3,000 individuals. It was found that
these birds were destroying green bugs at the rate of nearly a million
a day, and on days when additional flocks of migrants were present
this destruction was doubled. During the season such numbers of
birds flocked to the grain fields that the aphis infestation was re-
duced by an incalculable number. Destruction of the aphids was at
its height during that stage of cool spring weather that permits the
green bug to breed freely yet holds in check its parasites. It will
readily be agreed that under such circumstances every economic ento-
mologist would welcome the assistance of any agency that would
account for one or two million green bugs daily on a single farm.

In two further items relating to Homoptera, birds are credited
with being the most important enemies of the clover leaf hopper
(Agallia sanguinolenta), and in one instance with locally extirpat-
ing black olive scales. ‘These complete the instances on hand for the
order, 3 being of control, and 14 of suppression.

TRUE BUGS (HETEROPTERA)

Contrary to the impression prevailing among many naturalists,
birds feed rather freely on Heteroptera. Nevertheless, there are few
instances of great activity in this direction by field observers. Prof.

® Zool. Bull. Penn. Dept. Agr., Vol. V, No. 3, p. 79, July, 1907.
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Franklin Sherman reports’® English sparrows as an efficient aid in
keeping Harlequin cabbage bugs in check in Robeson County, N. C.,
and Dr. A. W. Morrill notes that his studies of natural enemies of
the conchuela (Pentatoma ligata) “point to the strong probability
that birds are the useful agents in the reduction of the numbers of
the adults.”

BEETLES (COLEOPTERA).

For the extensive order of Coleoptera we have records of local
control or suppression by birds, of beetles of nine families compris-
ing nearly all of those including seriously destructive species.
These will be taken up in order. The Biological Survey has found
wireworms or adults of the family Elateride in the stomachs of about
170 species of birds, and the value of birds as enemies of these pests
has been freely acknowledged by Mr. J. A. Hyslop, of the Bureau of
Entomology, specialist on the family, who says in his bulletin ” on
“Wireworms attacking cereal and forage crops,” “Probably the
most imporant factor in keeping wireworms in check are the birds.”

Passing to the family Buprestidz, we have an instance by Prof.
R. A. Cooley, of Montana, of effective depredations by woodpeckers
upon larvee of the flat-headed apple-tree borer (Chrysobothris femo-
rata), and the statement by Dr. T. IE. Snyder, of the United States
Bureau of Entomology, that woodpecker enemies of the mangrove
borer (Chrysobothris tranquebarica) often obtain a high percentage
of the larve infesting introduced Australian pines in Florida."

The long-horned wood borers also are attacked by woodpeckers,
and the activities of these birds sometimes result in a considerable
degree of control of the pests. Mr. Walter N. Hess says of the
ribbed pine borer (Rhagium lineatum) : “ Birds, chiefly the wood-
peckers, are probably the most important of the predatory enemies.
It is not uncommon to find infested trees where these birds have
removed from one-half to two-thirds of the larvee and adults during
a single winter.”'* | Mr. Fred E. Brooks has found woodpeckers
to be highly effective enemies of the round-headed apple-tree borers.
Of the spotted species (Saperda cretata) he says:

3y far the most effective natural check to the increase of this borer seems to
be the woodpeckers. ‘The borers feed in positions easily accessible to these birds
and empty burrows are to be found on almost every infested tree, with the
marks of the birds around the wounds giving unmistakable evidence of the
cause of the borer’s disappearance. During the present studies every attempt

to rear lary in unprotected trees met with a loss of all the individuals as
u result of woodpecker attack. * * * It seems probable that the spotted

Bull. N.C. Dept. Agr, 32, ‘No. :7, July, 1911; pi Ba.
11 Bull. 86, U. S. Bur. Ent., 1910, p. 67.

72 Bull. 156, U. S. Dept. Agr., 1915, p. 25.

13 Journ. Agr. Research 16, No. 6, Feb., 1919, p. 161.
M™ Mem. 33, Cornell Agr., Exp. Sta., May, 1920, p. 379.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 425

aupple-tree borer would be a much more widely known and destructive pest
were it not for the constant depletion of their numbers by woodpeckers.”

Relative to the striped species he makes still stronger statements.
“While the control effect of parasites and predacious foes on this
borer is negligible,” he says, “ woodpeckers play an important part
in holding it in check. * * * In several orchards where counts
were made from 50 to 75 per cent of the borers had been de-
stroyed.” 1°

Among the Chrysomelidz or leaf beetles, probably the most noto-
rious pest is the potato beetle and it is just the species for which we
find recorded the most emphatic statements relating to birds as agents
of control. There is on record one case of control in Wisconsin, and
seven cases of local extermination occurring in Minnesota, Iowa,
Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina. There is
one instance of local suppression of asparagus beetles by birds occur-
ring in New York, one of control of the locust-leaf miner in Mary-
land, and four instances of effective depredations upon the elm-leatf
beetle in Massachusetts. One writer had the temerity to venture
that birds do not eat this beetle, but the cedar bird feeds freely
upon it, in two recorded cases at least, exercising notable control of
infestations and in two others entirely eliminating them.

Coming to the family Scarabaeidw, we find that white grubs
are the most frequent objects of investigation by economic ento-
mologists and we learn also that high rank is invariably given to
bird enemies of these pests. Dr. John J. Davis, a specialist on
white grubs, gives birds first place among the natural enemies.
Of his own observations he says:

Fields of timothy sod have been literally overturned by crows in their
search for grubs, and in some fields the grubs were almost exterminated
by them. Crows have often been observed following the plow in infested
fields, eagerly picking up every grub that was unearthed.”

Mr. Norman Criddle also writes in favor of the same bird and
says that while plowing he has personally observed that fully 90
per cent of white grubs exposed were picked up by crows. He is
so convinced of the value of birds in controlling white grubs that
he recommends that farm practice in Manitoba be planned chiefly
with a view of best utilizing the services of birds in destroying
white grubs; a remarkable tribute to the effectiveness of practical
economic ornithology. He says:

Birds are most persistent followers of the plow during their breeding

season or while migrating; gulls and terns from May 16 to June 22, and

16 Bull. 886, U. S. Dept. Agr., Oct., 1920, pp. 8-9.
1 Bull. 847, U. S. Dept. Agr., August, 1920, p. 29.
17 Warmers’ Bull. No, 543, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture, July, 19138, p. 15.
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

for a short time late in July; crows and blackbirds, including grackles,
from the time grubs appear in May until July 1.

From the foregoing we reach the conclusion that to attain the best possible
results under conditions existing in Manitoba, plowing should be done between
May 14 and July 1, and at an average depth of 5 inches. The idea is, of
course, to turn up as many grubs, eggs, or pupw as possible, a majority of
which will, in all probability, be picked up by birds. 28

The wireworms of the Far West usually are Tenebrionid larvae,
and it is presumed these are meant in a report by Mr. A. L. Ruth-
erford, horticultural commissioner of Stanislaus County, Calif., in
which he credits blackbirds with having eradicated the wireworms
in the Turlock and Modesto irrigation districts. ”

All families of weevils contain injurious species and we have
records of effective destruction by birds of members of three of the
families. Of one of the Otiorhynchids, the rose beetle (Aramigus
fullert), Mr. John G. Tyler, of Fresno, Calif., says:

One spring vast numbers of rose beetles (Aramigus fulleri) invaded the
country about Clovis [California], and after destroying the rose flowers they
took to the vineyards, doing considerable damage to the foliage by boring
numerous holes through the leaves, causing them eventually to wither up and
drop off. Every day for nearly a week a great flock of Brewer blackbirds
hovered over a certain vineyard that I had an excellent opportunity to
observe. Crawling over the branches or alighting on the topmost shoot, these
black-plumaged birds were conspicuous objects against the green of the tender
new foliage. As a result of the efforts of these birds, in a short time the vine-
yard was almost entirely free from the beetles.

Of the Curculionids, two closely related pests are known to be
eaten very freely by birds. The Biological Survey has found the
clover-leaf weevil (ypera punctata) in the stomachs of nearly 50
species of birds, and Messrs. D. G. Tower and F. A. Fenton, authors
of a Farmers’ Bulletin 2? on this weevil, consider that “ Birds are
valuable and important checks on this insect.” In two summers’
investigation in Utah of bird enemies of the alfalfa weevil by the
Biological Survey, 45 species of birds were found to attack the
weevil. The killdeer was one of the most active of these, making
alfalfa weevils a third of its food during part of the summer; one
stomach contained no fewer than 383 individuals, 376 of them in the
larval stage. The record for numbers—442 in one stomach—was
held by the Brewer blackbird, an abundant species in Utah. A sur-
prising discovery was that as a species the English sparrow was the
most effective enemy of this insect; alfalfa weevils formed about a
third of the food upon which its young were reared, and it was
estimated that the number fed to growing English sparrows on a

18 Agr. Gaz. Can., Vol. 5, No. 5, May, 1918, pp. 449-454.
19 Weekly News Letter, Comm. Hort. Calif., Vol. 38, No. 13, April 5, 1919.
20 No. 922, Dec., 1920, p. 17.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 497

typical Utah farm was about 500,000. To this must be added the
number eaten by the adult sparrows, which made of them about a
fifth of their food. Most of the common birds of northeastern Utah
were depending upon alfalfa weevils for almost a sixth of their
entire food, and the destruction of these pests by this warfare is
almost beyond conception.

The good work of birds in preying upon another weevil pest, the
cotton boll weevil, must not be overlooked. Sixty-six kinds of birds
are known to feed upon this formidable cotton destroyer, probably
the most effective being the orioles, which actually remove the boll
weevils from the place where damage begins—that is, the squares, or
flower buds, of the cotton plants—and the swallows, which feed upon
the weevils when in flight and extending their range. No fewer than
41 boll weevils were found in a single stomach of the Bullock oriole,
and large numbers are habitually taken by all species of swallows;
every one of a series of 35 eaves swallows had eaten them, the largest
number in any stomach being 48, and the average 19.

All the students of bark beetles (Scolytide) -have been impressed
with the usefulness of woodpeckers as enemies of these pests, and
there are at hand six different statements indicating their control
value from the pens of Dr. A. D. Hopkins, Mr. J. L. Webb, Dr.
M. W. Blackman, and Dr. J. M. Swaine. We will quote only one of
these, and that from Dr. Hopkins. He says with regard to the
spruce-destroying bark beetle which has been responsible for the loss
of many billions of feet of timber in the Northeaster1i States:

The principal enemy of the spruce-destroying beetle, and other bark-infest-
ing enemies of the spruce, consists of the woodpeckers, which destroy, it is

believed, from 50 to 75 per cent of the broods of the spruce beetle in many
hundreds of trees each year.”

FLIES (DIPTERA)

Only a single instance of control by birds of a dipterous pest has
come to notice, and that is one in which artificial use was made of
the birds. Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, late health commissioner of Penn-
sylvania, writes:

After trying the ability of fish to devour larve and pupx of mosquitoes
with varied success, I built two dams near together on the same stream,
so that each would have the same environment for the breeding of mos-
quitoes. Each covered nearly 1,400 square feet. In one 20 mallard ducks,
Anas platyrhyncha, were permitted to feed, while the other was entirely pro-
tected from waterfowl, but well stocked with goldfish, Carassius auratus
variety americanus.

The one in which the ducks fed was for several months entirely free from
mosquitoes, while the pond protected from ducks and stocked with fish was
swarming with young insects in different cycles of life.

21 Bull. 28, U. S. Bur. Ent., 1901, p. 48.
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

To the infested pond 10 well-fed mallard ducks, Anas platyrhyncha, were
then admitted, and as they entered the pond they were first attracted by the
larval batrachians, tadpoles. They, however, soon recognized the presence of
larvee and pup of the mosquito and immediately turned their attention to
these, ravenously devouring them in preference to any other food stuffs present.
At the end of 24 hours no pup were to be found and in 48 hours only a few
small larve survived. The motion of the water made by the ducks, of course,
drowned some of the insects—what proportion can not be estimated.

For some years I have been using ducks to keep down mosquitoes in swamps
that would have been very expensive to drain, but I never fully appreciated
the high degree of efficiency of the duck as a destroyer of mosquito life until
the foregoing test was made.”

LEPIDOPTERA (BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS)

When we use the vernacular terms butterflies and moths as equiva-
lents of the order name Lepidoptera we obscure the fact that it is the
immature stages, almost exclusively, that are of economic interest.
Not only are the caterpillars most important from this point of
view, but they are also most important in the food of avian predators
upon this order. They are devoured by nearly all kinds of insectiv-
orous birds and are used in quantity especially for feeding the
young. They are favored for this latter purpose even by numerous
birds that are not highly insectivorous when adult.

The avian attack upon the immature stages of Lepidoptera is a
heavy one and, as we shall see, it has resulted in numerous observed
cases of control or local extermination of various pests. Representa-
tives of 15 families of Lepidoptera are involved in these statistics
and they will be taken up in order.

The larvee of a butterfly (Agraulis vanillw) of the family Nymph-
alidee were eaten so persistently by road runners in one case 11
California that, according to Mr. A. W. Anthony, a fence row
covered with their food plant was entirely cleared of them. In
another butterfly family are those well-known pests, the cabbage
worms. Mr. Otto Lugger, former State entomologist, made an
interesting observation on their vertebrate enemies in Minnesota.
He had the position of 500 chrysalides of cabbage butterflies marked
on a board fence and observed them through the winter to note
their fate; by May 1 the number had been reduced from 500 to
43, a destruction of more than 90 per cent, chiefly by birds. Dr. J.
Schneck observed in Southern Illinois one instance of complete
elimination of worms from a cabbage patch by chipping sparrows.

Beginning the moths with the Sphingide we have on record one
case of local extirpation of the catalpa sphinx in Alabama by
cuckoos, and two of the tomato worm in Indiana by crows. One

2 Journ. Amer. Med. Assn., Vol. 68, No. 14, p. 12038, Oct. 3, 1914.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 429

of the latter instances was observed by Mr. Frank N. Wallace,
State entomologist.

In the case of another large moth—namely, Samia cecropia of the
family Saturniidee—the late Prof. I’. M. Webster recorded the
destruction of all but two of the cocoons of this species in a grove
in Illinois by hairy woodpeckers. Dr. John D. Tothill, who has
published so much interesting information on natural enemies of
insects, concludes that in his region (Nova Scotia) nearly three-
fourths of the cecropia caterpillars are eaten by orioles, robins,
and other birds, and about 85 per cent of the pup are destroyed
by woodpeckers. When M. Leopold Trouvelot was experimenting
with the so-called American silkworm (7'elea polyphemus) he found
birds to be the most formidable enemies of the caterpillars, and
he says: “It is probable that ninety-five out of a hundred worms
become the prey of these feathered insect hunters.”** In one case,
to test the birds, he placed 2,000 of the larve on a tree near his door,
and in a few days the birds had eaten all of them.

Excessively hairy larve are characteristic of the family Arctiide,
but at least one of them, the fall webworm (Hyphantria textor),
is freely eaten by birds. Dr. C. Gordon Hewitt informs us that,
“ The study of the natural control of the fall webworm was extended
to Nova Scotia in 1916, and it is interesting to record that of the
different factors operating in the reduction of this insect the red-
eyed vireo, Vireosylva olivacea L., appears to be the most important.
It was estimated that about 40 per cent of the larve had been
destroyed in the webs by this bird at the five observation points.” *4

The observations referred to are those of Doctor Tothill, who
credits birds with percentages of destruction of the broods, varying
in different years, from 11.4 per cent to 89.5 per cent. In 1912,
when the insect was fairly plentiful, a reduction in numbers was
brought about chiefly by parasites. In succeeding years the para-
sites gradually died out as the insect became rare, and control was
maintained almost exclusively by birds.?°

While it may not be well known that hairy caterpillars are eaten
so freely by birds, it is common knowledge that cutworms are favorite
meat. Cases of local control of cutworms by birds must be of fre-
quent occurrence. However, only the following cases seem to be on
record: Three instances relating to unidentified cutworms—namely,
control of ground cutworms in Massachusetts by starlings, and in
Utah by meadowlarks, and of climbing cutworms in California by
crows——and the following relating to identified forms. Prof. J. R.

223 Am. Nat. I, No. 2, April, 1867, p. 89.
“4 Rep. Dominion Ent., 1917, p. 8.
2 Proc. Ent. Soc. Nova Scotia, 1918, pp. 10—14.
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Parker and associates found wild birds to be the most beneficial
check upon the pale western cutworm (Porosagrotis orthogonia) in
Montana. In Texas the boat-tailed grackle, locally called jackdaw,
has several times been observed to clean up infestations of the cab-
bage looper (Autographa brassicae). The fall army worm has
been extirpated from a peanut field in Florida by blackbirds, and
from a millet field in Georgia by English sparrows. ‘There are
recorded instances of control of the common army worm in Canada
and New York, and of local extirpation in Pennsylvania and Min-
nesota. Dr. Townend Glover reports that “a southern planter
once stated to me that the cotton boll worm, which was destroying
his cotton crop, had entirely disappeared after the visit of an im-
mense flock of blackbirds, which, after devouring the worms, imme-
diately left the neighborhood.” *°

The oak caterpillars (Yatana) are large and conspicuously col-
ored and have threatening actions, but all these characteristics com-
bined do not prevent attacks by birds. In the District of Columbia,
Mr. Robert Ridgway observed cuckoos feeding so persistently on
a colony of Datana integerrima on black walnut that within a week
it was absolutely exterminated. The destructive Zimmerman pine
moth (Pinipestis) of the same family has serious bird enemies, and
Mr. Josef Brunner reports that in the Rocky Mountain region the
hairy woodpecker is unquestionably the most efficient natural force
restraining the species.

Only a aS species of birds have been observed feeding on the
European corn borer, but among them the woodpeckers seem to do
considerable good in some cases. Messrs. G. J. Spencer and H. G.
Crawford, reporting on their studies in Ontario, state that “ the
downy and hairy woodpeckers have frequently been seen digging
the borers out of the stalks and stubbles in the field. In one field
these birds were computed to have taken 60 per cent of the borers.”*7

The tussock moth caterpillar is generally supposed to be too hairy
for birds, but this is another strained assumption. When they are
common in Washington, nearly every robin seen carrying food to
its young shows a telltale white fluff at the end of its bill. Dr. J. M.
Swaine and Mr. Alan G. Dustan report birds to be important
enemies of the tussock moth in Canada, Mr. Dustan especially
having made some interesting observations along this line. He
found that birds and ants are responsible for holding the insect
at par in forests. When he exposed larve to birds, the supply dis-
appeared regularly and he credits birds with destroying half of the

*6 Rep. U. S. Commr. Agr. (1865) 1866, p. 42.
27 Bull. 295, Ont. Dept. Agr., March, 1923, p. 7.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 431

larvee hatching in forests. He further says that “ practically every
egg mass laid above the snow line (and over 90 per cent of them are)
had been either partially or wholly destroyed by birds.’® Cases of
local extermination of tussock moths are recorded for the English
sparrows in Massachusetts and the hairy woodpecker in Ohio. |

Even such obnoxiously hairy caterpillars as those of the brown-tail
and gypsy moths are eaten by many birds and sometimes to an
extent effective in control. Dr. L. O. Howard, chief, United States
Bureau of Entomology, states that “ Observations extending over a
number of years show that birds are important in checking the
spread of the brown-tail moth.” ** There has been reported to Mr.
EK. H. Forbush a case in which starlings had locally extirpated a
mixed infestation of brown-tail and gypsy larve, and when Mr.
Forbush was in charge of the gypsy-moth campaign for the State
of Massachusetts birds were observed to so hold the gypsy moth
in check at one locality for several years that work by the State
force was suspended. In connection with this early work Dr. E. P.
Felt was employed as entomologist, and he found it almost impos-
sible to complete certain experiments with larve protected by net-
ting bags because so many caterpillars were taken from the nets by
birds. Sixty per cent of the gypsy-moth larvze used in these experi-
ments were destroyed by birds.

The insects of most economic importance in the next family to
be taken up—namely, the Lasiocampidse—are the tent caterpillars.
These are conspicuous species and many observations have been
made of their bird enemies. For the less common species known as
the forest tent caterpillar (Afalacosoma disstria) there are at hand
3 records of control and 1 of local extermination, and-for the
common tent caterpillar (Af. americana), 6 of control and 9 of sup-
pression. Entomologists contributing to these records include Misses
Mary Treat and Caroline Soule, Prof. Clarence M. Weed, and Dr.
John D. Tothill.

Among the Geometridz or loopers, all smooth caterpillars, readily
eaten by most birds, the larve of the linden-moth (Hnnomos sub-
signarius) once a pest to shade trees, were so no longer after English
sparrows had been introduced and became common. Dr. A. R.
Grote and Dr. J. B. Smith cité cases of local extermination in New
York and New Jersey, and Prof. Glenn W. Herrick says:

The testimony regarding the activity of the Wnglish sparrow in exterminat-
ing this pest in cities seems to show rather conclusively that this much-

disliked bird did actually bring about the destruction of this insect. Nearly
every writer on the snow-white linden-moth makes acknowledgment to the

23 Proc. Acadian Ent. Soc. 1922, p. 109.
22? Farmers’ Bull. 264, 1906, p. 18.
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

sparrow and declares that the cities owe their freedom from this insect to
that bird.”

Cankerworms, also of the family Geometride, are a treat for most
birds, and in special investigations of outbreaks it has been found
that practically all birds of the infested region were feeding freely
upon them. This has resulted in noticeable control, recorded in two
cases, and in local suppression in five.

Cankerworms, as well as many of the other larvie heretofore con-
sidered, are well exposed to birds and other enemies, but caterpillars
that are concealed by no means escape, for example, larve of the
leopard moth, which are very destructive to shade trees, but which
in various localities have been noted to be held in check by native
birds. “No other explanation,” says Dr. W. E. Britton, “can be
given of the scarcity of the leopard moth in the country, adjacent
to infested towns, except the presence of insectivorous birds.
* * * Mr. James Walker, of Newark, N. J., states ‘that infested
elms placed in a nursery outside of the city limits of Newark were
rid of the larvee by woodpeckers.’ ” *

Among the Tortricide the codling moth is the greatest pest, and
almost every entomologist who has written on the subject substan-
tially agrees with Prof. M. V. Slingerland that “by far the most
effective aids to man in controlling the codling moth are the birds.” *
The two facts that have chiefly led to this conclusion are the great
scarcity of intact hibernating cocoons and the abundance of empty
ones which have evidently been rifled by birds. Long ago Messrs.
Benjamin D. Walsh and C. V. Riley, noted entomological collabo-
rators, said :°3

From the careful inspection of several large orchards in the early spring
months, we are convinced that almost all of the cocoons of the apple-worm
moth that have been constructed in the autumn on the trunks and limbs of
apple trees are gutted of their living tenants by hungry birds long before the
spring opens.

In Virginia, according to Mr. J. KE. Buck, “counts of over 400
cocoons observed on apple trees revealed the fact that * * *
birds had destroyed fully 85 per cent of the worms.” **

From New Hampshire comes this report by Dr. EK. D. Sanderson : *°

Only 5 to 20 per cent of the larvee survived the winter. An examination of
seven trees, which averaged over 38 cocoons per tree in the fall, showed but
5 per cent alive in the spring, 87 per cent having been killed by birds, 4 per
cent by disease, and 38 per cent by cold. In another orchard 1,096 cocoons

% Cornell Univ. Exp. Sta. Bull. 286, p. 62, 1910. r
41 Ann. Rep. Conn. Agr. Exp. Sta. 1911, p. 329.

* Bull. 142, Cornell Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 41, 1898.

*8 American Entomology, I, p. 113, 1869.

% Ann. Rep. Va. Exp. Sta., p. 55, 1908.

8% Agr, Exp. Sta. Bull. 143, pp. 64 and 82, 1909.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—-McATEE 433

were examined in May, 1907, with 19 per cent alive, 66 per cent having been
killed by birds, 6 per cent by disease, and 9 per cent by cold. It is quite
evident that the birds, particularly the downy woodpeckers and the nuthatches,
are the most important enemies of the codling moth in New England, and that
they should be given every protection and attracted to the orchard in every
way possible.

One instance is at hand also in which a California orchard ap-
parently was freed of codling moths by red-shafted flickers.

In relation to other Tortricidae, Prof. W. S. Regan has stated that
blackbirds do much good by feeding on the fruit-tree leaf-roller in
Montana,** and Mr. KE. H. Forbush records the local suppression of
a spruce moth in Maine by warblers.** The spruce budworm (Zor-
trix fumiferana), a prime pest of firs and spruce, also has very effec-
tive bird enemies. In times of great abundance of the insect in New
Brunswick birds were observed to take over 13 per cent of the broods,
and under more normal conditions in British Columbia more than
38 per cent.** “In this case,” says Doctor Tothill, “the natural
checks brought about a reduction of the insect before any trees were
killed, and in the following year the outbreak subsided entirely, due
to continued activity of the birds against the smaller number of
larve.”

The remaining families of Lepidoptera for which we have records
of effective control by birds are the Yponomeutidee and the Elachis-
tide. One of the former group, the diamond-back moth (Plutella
maculipennis) is a cabbage pest, and Mr. J. L. Harris, of Minnesota,
testifies that this insect was entirely extirpated from his patch by
blackbirds. In the Elachistide, a forest pest again, the larch case-
bearer (Coleophora laricella) has effective enemies among the birds.
In fact, Mr. A. B. Baird says, of his New Brunswick observations,
“Birds were among the chief factors in controlling this insect.”
The percentage of larve about clearings taken by birds was esti-
mated at 75 per cent and for the area in general 25 per cent.*°

HYMENOPTHRA (ANTS, BEES, AND WASPS)

In this order ants attract attention by their combined destructive-
ness and abundance and thus afford opportunity for observations on
control by birds similar to those here recorded for the other orders.
Flickers often are observed to suppress small colonies of ants, and
Mr. J. D. Mitchell and Dr. W. Dwight Pierce have recorded the
destruction of an entire swarm of agricultural ants in Texas by
jackdaws.*? Another instance of bird control of Hymenoptera is

*% Circ. 109, Mont. Agr. Exp. Sta., 1922, p. 12.

37 Bull. 9, Mass. Dept. Agr., 1921, p. 44.

388 Tothill, John D., Proc. Acadian Ent. Soe. 8 (1922) 1923, pp. 174-176,
39 Proc. Acadian Ent. Soe. 8 (1922) 19238, pp. 169-170.

40 Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash. 14, No. 2, June 1912, p. 72.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

given by Mr. S. T. Kimball, of Ellington, Conn., who states that
“The oriole has cleaned my currant bushes of the currant worm *%
for the past few years.”

DISCUSSION

In the foregoing remarks are summarized 109 cases of control
and 88 of local suppression of insects by birds. Neither of these
figures is exact on account of the impossibility of reducing to
numbers such expressions as: “ Several times the birds were ob-
served to clear up ” certain infestations, or “ many fields were kept
clean,” and the like. However, the exact number of recorded cases
is a matter of little concern, as it can have no sort of close approach
to the number that really occur. Consider, for instance, the cases
of almost complete destruction of termite swarms by English spar-
rows that the writer has personally observed. These were three in
number, and the locality of one was a telephone pole in an alley
near the Bureau of Chemistry, of another a court of an apartment
house on Park Road, where some porch timbers were the breeding
place of termites, and of the third his own backyard in a suburb,
where the lowermost riser of a flight of steps was the nursery of the
white ants. Now, these are three widely separated spots in and near
a city of considerable size; and the writer only by chance happened
to be at each during the very brief period when it was possible to
make the observation. In a city the size of Washington hundreds
of such incidents must occur every season unobserved; in a thousand
cities in the range of white ants, and in rural districts where the
termites are subject to attack by numerous kinds of birds, there must
be multiplied hundreds of cases. This, too, for only a single kind
of insect; multiply again by the vast number of insects birds attack,
over any one of which they may at times exercise local control, and
it is evident that the number of cases occurring in the United States
annually must run into the millions.

After this statement the reader may think that the author’s en-
thusiasm as an ornithologist has overbalanced his judgment. To
assure neutrality of opinion, therefore, let us leave the doings and
sayings of ornithologists in abeyance and appeal to the entomolo-
gists again.

In writing about the migratory locust Dr. C. V. Riley, former
Chief of the United States Bureau of Entomology, said:

While little practically can be done by man to further the multiplication of

the more minute enemies of the locust, much may be done to protect and to
promote the multiplication of the larger animals, especially the birds. These

“ Pteronus ribesii.
CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—McATEE 435

should be protected by most stringent laws, firmly carried out, restraining
the wanton destruction too often indulged in by sportsmen and others.”

Dr. A. D. Hopkins, formerly in charge of Forest Insect Investiga-
tions, United States Bureau of Entomology, wrote in connection
with his studies of insect enemies of the spruce:

I would recommend the encouragement and protection of all insectivorous
birds, since they are undoubtedly of very great service in preserving a balance
among the contending species of plant and animal life, and at times may
vender most valuable service in reducing the numbers of dangerous insect
enemies.“

Dr. E. P. Felt, State Entomologist of New York, also dealing with
forest insects, after noting the complete destruction by English spar-
rows of a flight of linden-moths, states:

Insect-feeding birds appear to be the most effective checks upon such out-
breaks and occurrences such as noted above are additional arguments for the
better protection of birds, since under present conditions, at least, the cost
of artificial control in ordinary woodland areas would be prohibitive.*

Referring to the same insect pest Prof. Glenn W. Herrick, of
Cornell University, remarks that “ Undoubtedly one of the most
efficient and feasible means for the control of this insect in our for-
ests will be the better protection of our native birds.”

Mr. Arthur Gibson, entomologist of the Dominion of Canada,
after detailing the usefulness of birds as enemies of the army worm
concludes :

The value of protecting our native insectivorous birds will thus readily be
seen, and farmers, gardeners, etc., should do all they possibly can to protect
them.”

After calling attention to the value of birds as enemies of the
tent caterpillars, Dr. J. M. Swaine, chief of the Division of Forest
Insects, Canadian Department of Agriculture, puts in italics the
assertion that “the protection and encouragement of our native
birds would go far towards reducing the numbers of many injurious
insects of orchards, shade trees, and forests.” “

Prof. V. H. Lowe, entomologist at the New York State agricul-
tural experiment station, says:

Every thoughtful farmer knows that among the most important forces he
has to contend with, in his efforts to produce abundant crops, are the hordes

of insects * * *. The birds are among his most useful allies in combating
these enemies.”

2U. S. Dept. Agr. Bull. 25, 1891, p. 34.

#8 Report on Investigations to Determine the Cause of Unhealthy Conditions of the
Spruce and Pine from 1880-1893, Bull. 56, West Virginia Agr. Exp. Station, April, 1889,
p. 269.

#4 35th Rep. State Ent. N. Y. (1921), June, 1923, pp. 82 and 84.

4 Bull. 286, Cornell Agr. Exp. Sta., Nov., 1910, p. 63.

48 Bull. 9, Ent. Branch, Can. Dept. Agr., 1915, pp. 16-17.

47 Ent. Circ. No. 1, Dominion Dept. Agr., 1913, p. 11.

48 58th Ann. Rept. N. Y. State Agr. Soc. (1898), 1899, p. 315.
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Prof. C. M. Weed, formerly entomologist at both the Ohio and
New Hampshire agricultural experiment stations, notes that:

After many years of study * * * of the relations of birds to agri-
culture, we are convinced that the birds are a most potent factor in making
crop production possible, that without them we should be overrun with
pests—vertebrate and invertebrate—to an extent of which we now have no
conception.”

Dr. Townend Glover, first entomologist of the United States
Department of Agriculture, in one of his annual reports says:

In short, it may be plainly stated that without the cooperation of certain
birds, animals, ete., this country would be overrun with insect pests.°°

And M. Leopold Trouvelot, distinguished French entomologist,
whom I have quoted before in connection with bird enemies of the
American silkworm, concluded from his cbservations that if the
birds were killed off all vegetation would be destroyed by insects.

Thus it will be seen that the enthusiasm of entomologists relative
to the usefulness of birds has reached the highest possible pitch, in
some cases agreeing in substance with the celebrated dictum of
Michelet, the French historian and essayist, that “ Birds can live
without man, but man can not live without the birds.”

For a more reasoned statement of the utility of birds, let us quote
Dr. 8. A. Forbes, both an entomologist and ornithologist :

“Against the uprising of inordinate numbers of insects, commonly
harmless but capable of becoming temporarily injurious,” says Doctor
Forbes, “ The most valuable and reliable protection is undoubtedly
afforded by those predacious birds and insects which eat a mixed
food, so that in the absence or diminution of any one element of
their food, their own numbers are not seriously affected. Resorting,
then, to other food supplies, they are found ready, on occasion, for
immediate and overwhelming attack against any threatening foe.
Especially does the wonderful locomotive power of birds, enabling
them to escape scarcity in one region which might otherwise deci-
mate them, by simply passing to another more favorable one, without
the loss of life, fit them, above all other animals and agencies, to
arrest disorder at the start—to head off aspiring and destructive
rebellion before it has had time fairly to make head.” **

Hitherto we have considered chiefly the testimony of American
observers but now let us give attention to Dr. H. Maxwell-Lefroy,
the late dominion entomologist of India, since his opinion based
on an extensive study of the food of birds in India, so closely paral-
lels that of Doctor Forbes just cited.

* Weed, C. M., and Dearborn, N., Birds in Their Relation to Man, 1903, p. 4.
* Rep. Commr. Agr., 1870 (1871), p. 1.

"On some Interactions of Organisms, Bull. Ill. State Laboratory of Natural History,
Vol. I, No. 3, Nov., 1880, pp. 11-12.

CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS—-McATEE 437

“One has only to read the lists of the food of beneficial species of
birds,” says Dr. Lefroy, “to get an idea of the immense part they
play in reducing insect damage. Nearly all insects have special
enemies such as parasites which attack each individually, but which
produce alternative abundance and scarcity of each insect; that is,
with the natural action of the special checks such as parasites, you
get alternative ‘waves’ of insect pest and parasite; this is where
the birds’ importance is shown; they are not restricted, they eat
many kinds of insects and when a pest has for the time got ahead
and is abundant, the birds are there to feed on it just because it is
abundant, and because at one time, one is abundant, at another time,
another is, and the birds eat them all. To put it figuratively they
cut off the tops of the waves and tend to keep them all at a uniform
level, none being ever destructively abundant. In my opinion from
man’s point of view this is the special function in nature of birds
and if the bird population is small, outbreaks of insects are fre-
quent.” 5?

In other words, entomologists, ornithologists, all of us in fact may
agree, without exaggerating the services of birds in the least, that we
may look upon them as an ever-present force which automatically
tends to check outbreaks, large or small, among the organisms avail-
able to them as food. It is a force that should be kept at maximum
efficiency by protective measures and which should be taken into
consideration and used whenever possible. At the same time we
must not neglect to credit with their good services, and to protect
and adapt to our ends so far as practicable, other insect-destroying
vertebrates. Among these certain toads, lizards, shrews, and moles,
may in their more restricted spheres, at times approach birds in
individual efficiency, and bats may equal them. Various other
mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes also have value as insect
foes which should not be overlooked. Let us prize them all accord-
ing to their deserts, and utilize their services as best we may.

®.TIn Mason, C. W. The Food of Birds in India. Mem. Dept. Agr. India Ent. Ser.
Vol. III, Jan., 1912, p. 364.

76041—26 29

:. — pian Try

Riso is ats

.

J re
jaa
runt at
uy

=
oy

oe :

'; a 7
Co
ahi
as

f +. ak a a a slab
ris ted a i nel oil? _ Se 0, a a pa

7h

» . 7 - ”
~adanindid. fcc saad
: “%! SLi by “yr. 4)
{ j “A
is .
r dg -3 ' Ta.
ft 4
“4 ; Ss
4 oY | ;
és set) 2 Lifes
; s r
| ete ere art
.
I +5 oF *
: A
; a i.
tf tl} ‘ as ,
i
a .
ak ¥? ~y
is. . ;
r oh * J
. - ry “
' wp ‘ ‘
' 4
¢ * sd
7 my)
“*. *
'
5
Ve
.
-
‘
;
'
4 °
SNOYHOAILOASN| ATHDIH 3YW SAYVZI] ANOG “SNNOA HLIM LAIMS GSYV1100O

| 3LV1d B2IVIIN—'SZ6l ‘Wodey uBluOsSYyyIWS
an Report, 1925 McAtee PLATE 2

COMMON SKUNK (MOUNTED SPECIMEN). THE Most EFFECTIVE INSECT
DESTROYER AMONG OUR TERRESTRIAL MAMMALS
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—McAtee

|. CALIFORNIA GULL. THE GULL THAT SAVED THE MORMONS’ CROP

9. A FLOCK OF CALIFORNIA GULLS FOLLOWING A HARROW
WY

thsonian Report, 1925.—McAtee PLATE 4

MEADOWLARK. A GREAT FOE OF GRASSHOPPERS AND SIMILAR INSECTS.
HAS CONTROLLED AN OUTBREAK OF THE COULEE CRICKET
PLATE 5

MN
\ aN KYW ys
YE \\
\" Ne WX

. AW

USS
UAL
ARR . WN IN
Wo"

rw
N
N
RN
~

RK
WN AS WS LEZ

ae

Nova SCOTIA IN VARIOUS

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—McAtee

AQAA"

KEN

<<

EYED VIRIOS. THIS SPECIES HAS DESTROYED FROM IO TO 90 PER

CENT OF THE BROODS OF FALL WEBWORMS IN

RED-
YEARS
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—McAtee PLATE 6

THE Crow. A GREAT ENEMY OF WHITE GRuBS. IN SOME PLACES DE-
STROYS 90 PER CENT OF THOSE TURNED UP BY THE PLOW
PLATE 7

2a

At

ec

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—M

SOMETIMES EXTIRPATES

PAR EXCELLENCE.

ANT COLONI

ANTEATER,

THE FLICKER.

ES
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES

By Austin H. CLark

CONTENTS

Buvcteriiitespin) penenals st 5 tse Nak an a ee ee oe
SOREN GS LY COST NT A SG pes a ee ge CEE ELEM EMR OSS LF oeee Me
The caterpillars, of the yliy ceanids as Lens ee Sevan ee Bee ee a
ESE sy wy A a(CEe We eb a fs See ee a Ee a ee eae
Ieycermids Caterpillars cen Cy aki t see ee om eee ee Oe ee ale a ee

SSHACCLLI Che ly Cenid "CALCD L ars awake Sata ea
Niimsing. dy Gai dyccatenpill ars wes emma eo te See ees it a
Rhesdiscovery One carnivorous! PUbtCTill epee eee ee a ee
MHeBCarnivoOro uss DeULELMCS= sere ate er ene olin ee ete eer ee Re oe
Carnivorous butterflies feeding on the secretions of other insects____________
Butterflies with habits suggesting carnivorous propensities_________________

Ger ORC SY IN CELL Ge er ee a ees SOR ee
ANLOCUTILS EONS TLCLOt a= = ne ere A en RAD Dae ae DE ieee

WATT OCATALS BNE CLUES See 8 Ss eae ee as Sard a GS ee

(CRO RLY OUR, NO DUG (ype ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ae

A nonearniyorous butterfly feeding with impunity among ants on coccid secre-

TEL Tg ee ea ence ep ee we mies eee Ie it ee a she eee ah eS ES

REMI TAUS (CIA CI 81,8 = ate aca wee Pee hee eee ee ee
CO CLONGUDUSL Re UIT cs ene ae ee Pe Es SA Le ee RS BE
TRDUUROIS OL ASSOLIG® steers ae ea. FOE reer ee sete BE SR Be ce po

STEAL TAIT LP OIU UT UC ee ran eal Sp wt Lape eae ea eh Jeo, kre ee ey eee Ws CR
TAIL CAC APUVIL Oe erat cae ne eel EN NS A ann Ae ke, ee AR Ah ESN
ASUOUG IG RUCUUDOGIUY aa = eee eT ene) RN ae se eee Se ol Be th a Se

VOT KOGA ATIC SIN ON pal a a Le Ty ene OF oe Le eo ERO

GV CETUS TAG TUE CO oe a ee ee ES EASE PEs OEE
TELE TOR VLC ON ER) Sea 8 2A E Bay aaa be hk 5 is Pe BES te a

[SY TAG NSCS YT TB OSS 28 EN Spee ee creas ROS Es SE ee eee as a eee

WD GIGISP LE TIO TE ae cee ne te Se LIS eee EAD ELE SUE SESS ee ee
ORME ECA. LOGREUIIES ee ee a LI ee eae ee Pe 8
Occurrenceand) Nap ithe se Ne ee eee Fe Se

DESO (OY be eta AE pe EE Ses Sa ee ie eee 58S BE de ee ee

Hirst ‘larval? stage+22 ek ee ee SE es
Secondjlarvall stage =. Se 2) as Se sa ee ee
Third larval Sta gee ee ees a Bree Seen Sees ee ee re ee ee ee ee
Hourth and lastlarvalistaget2 222 2- ot) See ee ee ee
Rapidity of erowthvot. the caterpillans= == Soe
VETS NL BS Ge So ap ne a i ee ee ee ee ee
Duration: of the: pupal stages See se ee ee eee eee Bae
HMoodvot the caterpillars: 2-52. — 22+ = ee ee oe
Relationship with ants 22==s2 22 == 2a 2 Se ee a ee
Wnemiege.< 3. 223552. seo ee £ see ISS SS ae ee ee LE ete SS
ASHOCIALeS: OF Lhe, Caterpillars=—— = "=> S52 =e ee ee ee ee
MOCHMOCTOMG OTOWNIS 2-2 25 OS Se eS Se eee eee
PARSER AIR TAT LETTUCE Oo ka Ia a a
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
BUTTERFLIES IN GENERAL

No equally large group of insects in which the metamorphosis is
complete show such a general uniformity of habit as do the butter-
flies. Both sexes of all kinds can fly, though in some the females
are more sluggish and less proficient on the wing than males; in
a very few the females are much more frequently seen flying than
the males. All are day fliers. Most kinds fly only in bright sunlight,
from the middle of the morning until mid afternoon, the females
taking wing in numbers considerably later than the males. <A
number prefer the half light of wooded regions, and a few fly only
in the early morning and again at dusk.

Nearly all caterpillars of butterflies are leaf eaters, living on
dicotyledonous plants, and among these apparently preferring cer-
tain families. Some, of a special group, and a few others, feed on
grasses. A very few, of a queer mothlike type, bore into pith and

roots.
THE LYCANIDS

Only in a single group of butterflies does there occur a wide di-
versity of habits. This is the group embracing the hairstreaks, blues,
and coppers called the Lycznide.

The Lycenide are far more abundant in the tropics of both
hemispheres than in the temperate zones, but even in the latter, espe-
cially in Asia and Europe, they form a large proportion of the local
species.

As stated by Trimen, the numerous species, though of small size,
are, as a rule, remarkable for brilliancy of coloring and exquisite
variegation of marking. Richness of hue is, however, usually con-
fined to the upper surface of the wings, which in the males often pre-
sents one vivid field of metallic orange-red or glistening blue, while in
the female it is usually duller, varied with spots, or more suffused
with grayish or with blackish, and occasionally wholly brown,
presenting a totally different aspect to that of the male. The under-
side, on the contrary, differs but very little in the two sexes; it is
commonly of some soft shade of gray or brownish, marbled or
streaked with transverse darker or paler lines, or with rows of
white ringed spots, and is not infrequently ornamented with very
brilliant metallic dots, usually on the hind wings. Mr. Scudder adds
that the antenne are almost always ringed with white, apd a con-
spicuous rim of white scales encircles the eyes.

THE CATERPILLARS OF THE LYCAINIDS

Lycenid larve are for the most part shaped like wood lice or sow-
bugs, and in many cases look more like a coccid or some vegetable
excrescence than like a caterpillar. Their legs often are extremely
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 441

short, so that they resemble slugs in their gliding movement. Some
of them are smooth, many are clothed with a short down, some have
fascicles of short bristles or regularly disposed tubercles, and a few
are hairy generally. Several are regularly corrugated dorsally, and
others prominently humped in one or two places. Some are furnished
with a hard flattened shield on the dorsal region of the last three
segments which is used by them to plug up the holes in the fruits on
the interior of which they live.

The majority of lycznid larve feed on the buds, flowers, and
young leaves of dicotyledonous plants—trees, bushes, or low-grow-
ing herbs. A number feed on the seed pods of leguminous plants;
these have very long necks, so that with their mouths they can
reach far into the interior of the pods and thus scoop out the con-
tents with the greater portion of the body remaining outside. The
caterpillars of three oriental genera feed on the interior of fruits
of several different kinds. The caterpillars of a special group
(Liptenine) live on the bark of trees, sometimes on rocks, feeding
on the lichens and the alge growing there; one of this group, how-
ever, is a grass feeder (urbania). Lastly the larve of all the
species of two groups, so far as known, and a few others feed upon

other insects.
BUTTERFLY CANNIBALS

Although the only truly carnivorous butterflies are found in the
Lycenidv, the caterpillars of many other types of butterflies are
on occasion cannibals. This is particularly true of the vegetarian
lycenids. Our common little blue (Cyaniris ladon) for instance,
and certain of our hairstreaks are notorious in this respect. But
the common black swallowtail (Papilio polyxenes), the blue swal-
lowtail (Laertias philenor), the common milkweed butterfly (A nosia
plexippus), and a few others are known also to be sometimes can-
nibals.

When a caterpillar is about to transform into the pupal state it
becomes quite helpless; after the larval skin is shed and until the
new skin of the pupa hardens it is more helpless still. It is at this
time, just before and just after the transformation to a chrysalis,
that a larva is most subject to attack by its companions.

LYCAINID CATERPILLARS AND ANTS

In many lyceenid larvee there is a transverse oval opening on the
dorsal line of the eleventh segment with lips like a little mouth.
These lips can, at the will of the larva, be somewhat protruded
and a drop of sweet liquid expelled. Ants of very many species are
immensely fond of this sweet liquid, and in return for it act as most
efficient guardians of the larve.
4492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

In India, Mr. de Nicéville has found as many as four species of
ants attending one species of larva. Not only do the ants attend the
larve from their very first stages until they are fully grown, but
they often cause the larve to change to pups within their nests,
sometimes taking them deep under ground, in this manner protect-
ing them from the time they emerge from the egg to the hour they
assume the perfect form and fly away. One ant even goes so far as to
surround each separate caterpillar and the leaf on which it has been
feeding with a few strands of its silken web, protecting it jealously
and attacking most fiercely any living thing intruding upon it. In
the case of the larve of a Ceylonese species (Aphneus lohita)
which frequent the nests of Cremastogaster on Acacia and G‘re-
villea trees, on the foliage of which they feed, the caterpillars are
herded in special shelters built by the ants and are driven out at
night to feed and brought back home to their shelters in the morn-
ing. There are many other interesting types of association between
lyceenid caterpillars and various ants.

Mr. de Nicéville and others have remarked that ant-tended
lyceenid caterpillars are most easily found by looking for the ants.
The caterpillars are usually colored like the leaves, buds, flowers,
or seed pods upon which they feed, and are for other reasons not
easy to detect; but the restless black, brown, or red ants are very
conspicuous.

THE SIGNAL TOWERS OF LYCAINID LARVA

On the twelfth segment, the next behind the one bearing the oval
opening from which the honey is exuded, are two other organs, one
on either side in the subdorsal region, each: of which looks like a
stigma, but is a little larger. From each of these the caterpillar can
extrude at will a membranous cylinder or tall pillar with a crown of
tentacles about the summit. Mr. W. H. Edwards has suggested
that these curious organs when extruded serve as signals for the
ants, inviting them to come and examine the mouthlike opening on
the eleventh segment. It has been supposed, and with good reason,
that from these processes an odor is given off attractive to the ants.
They are at once withdrawn if an ant approaches, and the ants are
never allowed to touch them.

THE WHIRLING BRUSHES OF CURETIS CATERPILLARS

In the oriental genus Cwretis, which in the larval stage does not
possess the mouthlike organ on the eleventh segment and is not at-
tended and protected by the ants, these two organs are of very great
size. Each organ consists of a tall “ pillar” from which, when the
larva is touched or frightened, is instantly protruded a long tentacle
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 443

furnished at its head with a brush of long particolored hairs as long
as itself. These hairs open out into a rosette, and the tentacle is
whirled around with immense rapidity, producing a most curious
effect.

ANT RESISTANT LYCAINID CATERPILLARS

The bark-feeding lycenid caterpillars are without the glands giv-
ing out a sweet secretion. They are hairy and look more like the
young of moths than like those of butterflies. They frequent ant-
infested trees, living in the midst of passing swarms of ants, pro-
tected by them, but avoided by them, and giving nothing in return
for their protection.

“ELECTRIC” LYCAANID CATERPILLARS

In Nigeria Mr. Charles O. Farquharson found two sorts of lycznid
larvee feeding on the flowers of the mistletoe (Loranthus) to be
“electric.”

He wrote that these larvee are of very characteristic shape, rather
molluscoid or limacoid than onisciform, though they are smooth
except at the margin, which is minutely bristly, doubtless to protect
the feet. The “carapace”, besides, comes right down so that the
feet are not visible. In section the larve are more or less triangular.
The posterior part is bilobed, and in one of the species there are
little lobes anteriorly. They have tubercles, exserted very rarely,
but if they have a gland it is hard to see. They are not ant-attended.
They are relatively large, so that it is possible to lift them between
the finger and thumb toward the anterior end without the skin of
the fingers coming in contact with the marginal fold.

In handling one of these Mr. Farquharson was conscious of a
curious sensation in his finger and thumb, which he found difficult
of description. As nearly as possible it reminded him a very faint
electric shock, not accompanied by a prickly sensation, but rather as
if one were tickled by a tiny bunch of slightly strong bristles. The
sensation was not that of tickling so much as that of a faint shock
which was not continuous but rapidly intermittent.

The skin of the larva is covered with yellow dots, very minute
and scarcely visible to the unaided eye, like glandular dots on a leaf.
Mr. Farquharson says that, so far as he can make out there is nothing
on the larval epidermis that could scratch the hand. On putting
the larva down there was no after sensation as there would be after
stinging.

According to Mr. Farquharson 7'anuetheira timon is the species
with the most markedly “electric” caterpillars, but the larvae of
Epamera farquharsoni are slightly “ electric” also.
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Dr. Harry Eltringham believes that the sensation described by
Mr. Farquharson as “ electric” is due to the capability of produc-
ing when handled extremely rapid muscular contractions or vibra-
tions by which the extremely rough cuticle of the caterpillar is made
to grate upon the skin. He noted a “shivering” at short intervals
in larvee of 7'’hecla prunt which in general appearance are not un-
like these larve from the mistletoe.

STINGING LYCAUNID CATERPILLARS

Dr. Harry Eltringham found that in the larve of 7'eratoneura
isabelle there are on segments 5 to 8, inclusive, dorso-laterally
placed dark patches which consist of masses of urticating spicules,
a most remarkable feature in a butterfly caterpillar.

THE DISCOVERY OF CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES

The first butterfly actually known to be carnivorous was the
North American Feniseca tarquinius, originally described by Fabri-
cius in 1793. Mr. John Abbot, an Englishman who lived for a
number of years in Georgia, discovered the larva and pupa of this
species a few years after it was first described and drew most excel-
lent figures of them which are now in the British Museum. He said
that the caterpillar is “ covered with a white loose down,” which is
in reality the flocculent secretion of the aphids on which it feeds;
but he never suspected that the caterpillar of a butterfly could be
carnivorous. In various notes, published and unpublished, he gave
a considerable list of supposed food plants.

Following Abbot’s observations previous to 1800, the next item of
interest was found by Mr. S. H. Scudder in the notebooks of Dr.
Asa Fitch after the latter’s death. In an entry dated January 7,
1855, he wrote “I wholly forget the history of these specimens; I
find the pupe slightly attached to the sides of a pill box, and the
butterflies hatched therefrom, and in the same box some beech
leaves and woolly plant lice (Schizoneura imbricator Fb.). I con-
jecture the worm from which the pupe came must have been feed-
ing among these lice, but have no recollection of the fact.” ‘The
butterflies were Feniseca tarquinius, and this was the first suspicion
of the occurrence of a carnivorous habit in a butterfly.

As related by Mr. Scudder the earliest observation of the direct
association of the caterpillar of this species with the plant lice was
made by Misses Soule and Eliot late in July or early in August,
1880, when summering at Stowe, Vt. They brought into the house
a branch of alder white with aphids. “It was left in a corner for
a day or two, and meanwhile small, greenish caterpillars appeared
about the room, on the walls and bureau. They pupated on the
walls, the mop board, the pincushion, and the sides of the bureau.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 445

The chrysalids were shaped like the ace of clubs.” When they
emerged the butterflies were identified. “The next year we found
one larva on an aphis-covered alder, but have never seen one since.”

On July 8, 1880, Mr. Th. Pergande found the caterpillars in the
leaf curls of Pemphigus fraxinifolii on ash and found that these died
without feeding on the leaves that were placed with them. In 1881
search was again made for the caterpillars on the same tree without
finding any.

On August 23, 1882, three caterpillars were found on a twig of
witch-hazel; they were not feeding when seen, and attempts to feed
them upon leaves with which they were placed in a jar failed; the
caterpillars died.

On October 2, 1882, several caterpillars were noticed with Sehizo-
neura tessellata. ‘They were intermixed with the aphids and not
readily observed, but seemed to hide among the mass of plant lice.
They were brought home with some of the aphids for experiment;
and while the caterpillars were actively crawling about for some
days, they all died without its being noticed that they fed upon the
aphids.

On September 18, 1884, again a few caterpillars were found among
the same Schizoneura. They were placed in a jar with the branch
containing some of the plant lice. Subsequently they were found
crawling about, and the aphids had disappeared, some of them hav-
ing apparently been eaten. This gave rise to a conviction that the
butterfly larvee fed upon the lice, but they all died without the fact
being proven.

On August 8, 1885, the larve were again found of all sizes among
Pemphigus imbricator. 'They were quite active, crawling over the
plant lice, and stopped as soon as the twig was touched. The egg-
shells were at the same time observed, and the actual fact of feeding
on the lice was proved by direct observation. On August 12 several
had changed to pups, and by August 20 four adult Feniseca tar-
guinius had emerged.

On February 20, 1886, Prof. C. V. Riley read a paper before the
Biological Society of Washington on “A carnivorous butterfly larva,”
which was published in Science on April 30, 1886, and again in the
American Naturalist in June of the same year. In this he men-
tioned the work of Mr. Pergande and stated that he had obtained
abundant evidence that the larve of Yeniseca actually feed upon the
aphids of the beech and alder. He also said that Mr. Otto Lugger
had frequently observed the larve around Baltimore among Pem-
phigus imbricator on the beech, but never dissociated from the lice,
and that Judge Lawrence Johnson also found it in connection with
the same species*“around Shreveport, La., in the autumn of 1886 and
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

surmised that it might feed upon Pemphigus, but neither of these
observers was able to get positive proof of the fact.

On October 29, 1886, Mr. W. H. Edwards published a detailed
account of the life history of this species, based mainly upon observa-
tions by Miss Emily L. Morton, of New Windsor, Orange County,
Nie¥.

Certain corrections in regard to Mr. Edwards’s historical remarks
and Mr. Pergande’s notes were published by Prof. Riley on Decem-
ber 29, 1886. On this same date Mr. George Haley, of Brownfield,
Me., published his observations on this butterfly. He had noticed
it alighting on a species of aphid, Schizoneura tessellata, found in
erowds on the bark of alder, and from the position of its abdo-
men it seemed to be going to lay an egg among the plant lice; but
seeing him, did not. Afterwards he scraped some of these aphids
off a twig of alder and found a couple of larve. These he sent to
Mr. Edwards, who said they were Feniseca tarquinius, as he had
thought. On another occasion he found two full-grown larve among
the plant lice, one of which changed to a pupa. On sending the
caterpillars to Mr. Edwards, Mr. Haley said he thought they fed
on the plant lice, as there were many dead bodies or skins of the lice
where he found them. Later he saw in the American Naturalist
that the larve probably fed on this species of aphid, and also on
Pemphigus fravinifolit found on the twigs of beech trees.

Dr. W. J. Holland in April, 1887, having read Mr. Edwards’s
account of the carnivorous habits of Yeniseca tarquinius, suggested
that Liphyra brassolis, an oriental butterfly, was similarly car-
nivorous. He had received from the Rey. L. C. Biggs a parcel of
insects collected by Mr. F. J. Durnford in Sungei-Ujong. Mr.
Biggs in his notes called attention to a particular specimen, saying:
“Tt looks as if it were covered with mildew, which Durnford
assures me is really fiuff detached at the time of its capture.”
Among the envelopes containing insects Mr. Holland found several
with specimens of a large “mealy-bug.” The true explanation of
the “fluff” or mealy deposit upon the abdomen and lower side of
the wings of the butterfly, which was an example of Liphyra
brassolis, instantly flashed upon his mind. He hastily looked up
the envelopes containing the scale insects or “mealy-bugs.” A
comparison beneath the microscope of the white particles clinging
to the abdomen and lodged upon the wings of the Liphyra with
the mealy covering of the shield-lice preserved in the envelopes
revealed their identity, and he therefore concluded that the white
fluff on the butterfly was acquired while ovipositing on scale insects.

The white “ fluff” on the Liphyra was undoubtedly a part of the
fugitive fluffy covering with which on emergence this butterfly is
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 447

abundantly supplied instead of “ mealy-bug ” secretion; but never-
theless Mr. Holland was correct in his suspicion that Liphyra is
carnivorous.

The second butterfly actually known from observation to be car-
nivorous was the Indian Spalgis epius. Writing in 1890, Mr.
Lionel de Nicéville recorded that Mr. E. Ernest Green sent him
drawings of the larva and pupa of this species from Pundul-oya,
Ceylon, and said: “I have several times reared an insect indis-
tinguishable from S. epius from a carnivorous larva that associates
with and feeds upon Dactylopius adonidum (the ‘mealy-bug’
planters) .”

In January, 1892, Dr. W. J. Holland published an extract from
a letter from the Rev. Dr. A. C. Good dated January 19, 1891, in
which the latter noted that he had found the larve of a butterfly
which had been described as Spalgis s-signata by Doctor Holland
in November, 1891 (=S. lemolea H. H. Druce), and that he thought
the caterpillars must have fed on plant lice.

In this paper Doctor Holland listed four lycenids the cater-
pillars of which are characterized by carnivorous propensities;
these were:

of

Feniseca tarquinius. Spalgis lemolea.
Spalgis epius. Liphyra brassolis.

He said further: “I strongly suspect that the larve of Lach-
nocnema and of Huliphyra, mihi, are like the larve of Spalgis and
Feniseca in their food habit.”

In September, 1894, Mr. E. H. Aitken published extended notes
on the young stages of Spalgis epius.

Mr. EF. P. Dodd in 1902 published a detailed account of the devel-
opment of the remarkable Liphyra brassolis which lives in the
nests of tree ants, feeding on their young.

In 1903 Mr. F. W. Frohawk remarked that from observations
he had made in the year preceding he felt convinced that some
connection existed between the larve of the large blue of England
(Lycena arion) and the common yellow ant (/ ormica flava) be-
cause of the preference shown by the butterfly in selecting for the
deposition of its eggs thyme plants growing on ant nests. He sus-
pected that these larvae might feed in their later stages either on
the larve or the pupe of the ants, since after the third molt they
persistently refuse to remain on the plants and appear to have a
tendency to hide in the ground. In 1905 Mr. Frohawk, in company
with Mr. A. L. Rayward, found the pupa of this species, and in the
following year these two gentlemen dug the full-grown larve out
of ants’ nests.
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw in 1905 described in detail the carnivo-
rous habits of the caterpillars of Gerydus chinensis.

It is to Mr. W. A. Lamborn that we owe the bulk of our infor-
mation regarding the curious and varied habits of different carnivo-
rous butterflies. As a result of studies in Southern Nigeria he
published in 1913 a most remarkable series of detailed and careful
observations on no less than six different types. For the first time
he described the larval habits of Huliphyra mirifica, Aslauga
vininga, A. lamborni, Megalopalpus zymna, and Lachnocnema
bibulus (of which the first and last had been suspected by Dr. Hol-
land of being carnivorous), and he added much to the knowledge of
the early stages of Spalgis lemolea.

In 1915 Dr. T. A. Chapman made the interesting observation that
the caterpillars of Lycana arion when in the last stage feed upon
the full-grown grubs of ants. In 1918 he published a note showing
that the larve of Lycena alcon in their last stage feed on ant larvee,
like those of Z. arion, but by sucking their blood instead of by devour-
ing them.

In an interesting series of observations on the lycxnids of South-
ern Nigeria published in full in 1921, Mr. Charles O. Farquharson
added 7'riclema lamias to the list of species known to have carnivo-
rous young, and gave further observations on the young of Lach-
nocnema bibulus.

THE CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES

Of the eight subfamilies included in the family Lycenide two,
the Gerydine and Liphyrine, so far as known, contain only car-
nivorous species. There are several additional carnivorous forms,
some of which are peculiar in having the caterpillars carnivorous
only in the last stage, in another subfamily, the Lycenine.

The subfamily Gerydinew includes the genera Gerydus, Paragery-
dus, Allotinus, Megalopalpus, and Logania, of which the young
are known only in Gerydus and in Megalopalpus; but suspicious
actions have been observed on the part of the adults of Adlotinus
which resemble similar actions of the adults of the closely related
Megalopalpus.

The Gerydine are distinguished from the other lycenids most
conspicuously by their curious legs, which are sometimes very long;
the tibie or tarsi are elongated or otherwise peculiar. The included
species are all dull little butterflies, wholly, mostly, or largely black
or dark brown above, with markings of bright brown, ochreous, or
white, rarely violaceous. The males have no secondary sexual char-
acters and usually do not differ in color from the females. ‘They
have a strong irregular mothlike flight, dancing about a favored
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 449

locality or flying back and forth along a path, and are very loth
to leave any particular spot. Some, like Gerydus chinensis, seem
to become more active toward evening, but others fly only in the
middle of the day, and only on sunny days. Colonel Bingham writes
that in India the habits of the members of this subfamily are alike.
The females, at any rate of Gerydus and Allotinus, which he has
closely observed in life, flutter about among low bushes and the
undergrowth at the edges of the forest. The males, on the con-
trary, sit erect on the upper side of the leaves at the extremity of
some branch of a tree at no great height above the ground, and from
these points of vantage make short, sharp, circling flights, returning
to the same or a neighboring leaf and invariably sitting with their
heads turned toward the open and not toward the tree.

The subfamily Liphyrine includes the genera Liphyra, Huliphyra,
and Aslauga, containing the largest and stoutest species of Lyceni-
de. As in the Gerydine the species are largely black or dark brown
above with brown or white markings, and some, at least, fly toward
evening. The butterflies of this subfamily seem to be related to
those of the Curetine, though the caterpillars of the latter are all
plant feeders.

In the very large and heterogeneous subfamily Lycenine, which
includes all our blues and coppers, the genera Spalgis, Feniseca,
and Lachnocnema contain only carnivorous species, while species
of Lycena and of Triclema are at first plant feeders, becoming car-
nivorous in the later stages.

The butterflies actually known to have carnivorous caterpillars are
the following:

Subfamily Gerydine. : Subfamily Lycenine.
Gerydus chinensis. Lycena arion.
Megalopalpus zynmnua. Lycenda alcon.

Subfamily Liphyrine. Spalgis epius.
Liphyra brassolis. Spalgis lemolea.
Huliphyra mirifica. | Feniseca tarquinius.
Aslauga vininga. Lachnoenema bibulus.
Aslauga lamborni. Triclema lamias.

CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES FEEDING ON THE SECRETIONS OF OTHER
INSECTS

Mr. W. A. Lamborn found a female Megalopalpus zymna on the
same stem with a membracid (Leptocentrus altifrons) and four
attendant ants. The butterfly was probing with its proboscis under
and around the membracid, and he was quite sure that the proboscis
occasionally touched the insect’s body.

On another occasion Mr. Lamborn took a male and a female
which were probing with their tongues under and around a mem-
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

bracid (Anchon relatum) near which were two immature and one
mature jassid (Vehela ornata), which apparently were also probed
by the butterflies. Two specimens, one a male, the sex of the other
not given, were obtained which were sucking food from the fore wing
of one or other of two membracids (Leptocentrus altifrons), which —
were on a green stem side by side and were attended by 19 ants.
Another male was taken sucking food off the fore wings of 3 jassids
(Nehela ornata); 9 ants were in attendance. A female was taken
on a green stem probing with its tongue and evidently sucking up
food material from 3 jassids (Vehela ornata), which were attended
by 5 ants. A male was captured probing with its proboscis a larva
of a membracid (probably Gargara variegata, eaten by its own
larva) ; 17 ants were in attendance.

Mr. Lamborn saw a worn Megalopalpus feeding on a fresh leafless
shoot covered with sticky secretion which ants also were enjoying.
On the next day he saw the same individual in the same position, so,
with a view to subsequent identification, he trimmed its right hind
wing off square with a pair of scissors. When released it flew into
a shrub near by, but on the following morning it had returned and
was again feeding. He saw it again on the twig the next day, and
four days after he first saw it, in the early evening, he took it in
his fingers and put it in the killing bottle.

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw found that the female of Gerydus chinen-
sis in order to oviposit alights in the midst of aphids and ants which
she thrusts aside with a brushing movement of her tail. Both male
and female are very found of exuding sap, and half a dozen may
occasionally be seen close together on a leaf or stem thrusting their
tongues into any interstices left by the aphids. The ants do not
appear to meddle either with the butterflies or with the eggs. It
seems in this case most probable that what the butterflies are search-
ing for is not plant sap but honey drippings from the aphids. Be-
fore the relationship between the two was known, Mr. Emery wrote
that Feniseca tarquinius alights upon the woolly plant lice of the
alder and with the ants enjoys the copious exceedingly sweet liquid
exuded from their bodies.

BUTTERFLIES WITH HABITS SUGGESTING CARNIVOROUS PROPENSITIES

Gerydus symethus.—My. Distant wrote that it has been erroneously
stated that this species inhabits ants’ nests, but that no real facts can
be adduced in support of the assertion.

Mr. de Nicéville suggested it may be that ants carry the full-
grown larve into their nests to perform their transformations as in
the case of 7'arucus theophrastus and other species (for instance
Catochrysops phasma as reported by Mr. Farquharson) ; but that
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 451

the adults inhabit the nests altogether as has been stated is almost
certainly incorrect.

It seems a reasonable assumption that, if the caterpillars of this
species have the habits of the allied G. chinensis, they may sometimes
be inadvertently entombed in shelters built by ants about colonies
of aphids, in which event the adults would be found therein im-
prisoned.

Allotinus horsfieldi—Lieut. Col. C. 'T. Bingham in 1907 published
a communication from Col. H. J. W. Barrow, who wrote: “I don’t
know whether you have observed the habits of a small plain butterfly
which I caught in Maymyo. I watched it often in the jungle, some-
times for an hour at a time. It puzzled me at first to know why
it took such an immense time to settle. It would keep within 1
yard of a spot and almost settle, 20 times, perhaps, before it actu-
ally did. Its legs are immensely long, and I discovered why. It
settles over a mass of aphides and then tickles them with its pro-
boscis, just as ants do with their antennsx, and seems to feed on their
exudations * * *, Tt would settle calmly over largish ants and
did not mind one or two actually standing up and examining its
legs to see who was there. The ants did not attack it in any way.”

Allotinus nivalis—In 1910 Mr. Hamilton H. C. Druce published
a note communicated by Mr. J. C. Moulton on a lycenid in attend-
ance on an homopteron.

Mr. Moulton showed Colonel Bingham’s figure of Adlotinus hors-
jieldi attending an aphid to his two Dyak museum collectors, telling
them to look for an example of this in real life when collecting in
the jungle. He further explained that the species figured is a com-
mon one in Sarawak and that there was no reason why they should
not be able to observe this phenomenon if they waited and watched
the insect settle. For a month they were unsuccessful, although col-
lecting four or five days a week. At last, on December 31, 1909, one
of the collectors, Rigi by name, came back triumphant with two
examples of Allotinus nivalis (a smaller species than A. horsfieldi
but nearly allied) together with an homopteron. He told Mr. Moul-
ton that he had found the two butterflies hanging downward from
the underside of a thin twig of a “kapa” tree about 2 inches apart
and facing toward each other; between them were two homopterons,
and each butterfly was engaged in slowly stroking the homopteron
nearest it with its tongue. The antenne were in an upright position
as shown in Colonel Bingham’s illustration.

Mr. Moulton remarked that in Colonel Bingham’s picture the
aphid is shown as firmly held between the fore legs of the butterfly
as if the “milking” operation were not particularly voluntary on
the part of the aphid. But his Dyak was quite positive that the
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

fore legs were not used for this purpose at all in the instance he
witnessed, and that the homopteron was quite free. There were
plenty of ants on the branch, which was some 4 to 5 feet from the
eround, but they did not seem to disturb the butterflies.

About January 20, 1910, the same native again brought in this
species of Adlotinus, together with an homopteron, telling Mr. Moul-
ton that he had watched them for a long time and that he was con-
vinced that the lycenid in no way held the homopteron. On Feb-
ruary 2, 1910, he brought in another Adlotinus (of a species near
nivalis) which he had found in similar attendance on the same spe-
cies of homopteron (also brought in). As before, he told him that
he watched them for some time to see if there was any restraint
imposed on the homopteron, but he was quite sure that it was free.

About February 10, 1910, Mr. Moulton’s Dyak Rigi brought him
an example of Adlotinus horsfieldi which he had taken in attendance
on a “heteropterous larva.” In the case of this last observation the
collector reported having noticed large numbers of this insect on the
tree in company with many ants, which latter appeared to be bother-
ing the lycenid, although he stuck to his work in spite of the ants
until the collector’s net removed him. In the previous observations,
except for the homopterons attended by the butterflies, none or but
few were seen on the same tree.

Gerydinw, sp. indet.—In a letter to Prof. E. P. Poulton, Mr. J. C.
Moulton wrote:

I watched some few months ago a group of ants, a Lycenid belonging to the
subfamily Gerydine, and Homoptera (identified by Distant as the Membracid
Ebhul varius Walker, previously only known from the unique Burmese
type). The Membracids were quite passive while ants vigorously massaged
them and imbibed the exuding liquid. The Gerydus rested within a foot of an
ant slowly stroking an Homopteron with his proboscis and I suppose at the
same time drawing up liquid.

According to Professor Poulton the observation was made in the
neighborhood of Kuching in 1913.

These observations by Colonel Barrow, the Dyak Rigi, and Mr.
J. C. Moulton must be considered in connection with Mr. Lamborn’s
notes on Megalopalpus, the African representative of the oriental
Allotinus, and Mr. Kershaw’s on Gerydus chinensis. F eniseca tar-
quinius also seems to be quite immune from attack by ants.

A NONCARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLY FEEDING WITH IMPUNITY AMONG ANTS
ON COCCID SECRETIONS

Mr. Charles O. Farquharson gives an excellent account of a but-
terfly of the genus Teratoneura feeding on the secretions of ant-
attended coccids and driving off the ants.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 453

He noticed the insect alight on a twig. It remained for a few
seconds and then flew off, circling rapidly round the stump, soon
to alight again. It lit on a branch with ants and coccids on it, just
at the tip, the coccids being about an inch from the end. It pro-
ceeded to wall backwards rather slowly and deliberately, the abdo-
men inclined upward at a fairly steep angle to the thorax, and the
wings opening and closing fairly rapidly—though not by any means
nervously or excitedly—and gently beating the twig. The ants
retreated backwards, making hardly any resistance at all, though
some dodged to the under side of the twig and ran forwards.

The butterfly having gone back about 3 inches, then suddenly
dropped the abomen so that it rested on the twig and ran rapidly
forward, the tip of the abdomen brushing the twig as it did so. The
backward maneuver was repeated, this time on the underside of the
twig, the wings then hanging downwards, the abdomen flexed as
before. The butterfly suddenly stopped over the coccids, unrolled
a very slender proboscis, and proceeded to absorb the secretion so
very much prized by the ants.

Occasionally an ant would venture along, but retreated without
attacking. In a short time the butterfly flew away, circled around
for a bit, and came back to another twig, where the same perform-
ance was repeated.

Professor Poulton remarked that the movements described and the
position of the abdomen of the butterfly suggest strongly that the
butterfly produces and fans toward the ants some odor disliked by
them.

GERYDUS CHINENSIS

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw has published an interesting account of
the habits of Gerydus chinensis which he found to be fairly common
throughout the year in certain localities near Macao and Hong
Kong. Like Feniseca tarquinius it is local in its occurrence, keeping
more or less strictly to shady and usually damp places. To a certain
extent it is crepuscular, though it is also on the wing during the day.

When ovipositing the female butterfly, after almost interminable
dancing up and down and wandering hither and thither, finally
alights, after two or three attempts, in the midst of the aphids and
ants, which she thrusts aside with a brushing movement of her abdo-
men, and immediately lays a single egg. She then generally moves
slightly and remains for some time sucking up the exuding juices of
the plant.

The eggs are laid toward evening and until night fairly sets in,
on stems and leaves of herbs and trees infested with aphids or

76041—26——30
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Hemiptera. They are laid at intervals all through the year, but
those mentioned by Mr. Kershaw were taken in July and August.

The plants the butterflies seem especially to affect are various
species of bamboo, the lichee (Stéllingia sebifera), and a species of
burr marigold (Bidens pilosa), which last is very common in the
region.

The aphids swarm so thickly that the plant stem or leaf is invisi-
ble and, barring heavy rain, they are, as a whole, stationary for days
together, though slowly changing their position individually and
going through various transformations, fresh lots continually re-
placing the old.

As in the case of Feniseca tarquinius the eggs of the butterfly are
often hidden under a mass of aphids.

The egg is circular and flat, pale green in color, ringed circum-
ferentially, the edges of the rings milled like a coin. It hatches in
four days, the issuing larva being nearly cylindrical at first, not
assuming its sluglike shape until a later stage. Its color is light
yellow with a distinct purplish dorsal line and a few light-colored
hairs chiefly at the head and tail. The head is dark. Later on the
caterpillar becomes limaciform or sluglike, yellow or greenish-yel-
low, and banded longitudinally with purple brown. ‘The segments
are well defined, the first swollen and produced so that the head
can be withdrawn entirely into it, as it usually is when the larva
is resting. F

The larvee feed upon the aphids, sometimes pressing them against
the plant with the head and forelegs, sometimes holding them in
the fore legs quite away from the plant. A few bites disposes of
an aphid, and the caterpillar then licks and cleans its legs just as a
mantis does. Some aphids must have a better flavor than others, as
the larvee pick and choose, moving their heads up and down over the
backs of the insects, evidently smelling them. As a rule the
creatures seem to make little attempt to escape till they are actually
bitten, when struggling is useless.

When not engaged in feeding the larve rest among the aphids or
crawl leisurely about between or over them, and the aphids do like-
wise, the larve being sometimes covered with them.

When nearly full grown the larvee lose most of their sparse hairs
and their colors fade, the bands and four blotches on the seventh
and eighth segments becoming less distinct.

The larval stage lasts about 15 days, and Mr. Kershaw reckoned
that, on the average from first to last, the larvee would eat some 20
aphids per day. But it would require many larve to make much
impression on the crowds of aphids seen, perhaps a yard of bamboo
2 or 8 inches in diameter being absolutely covered with them.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 455

Mr. Kershaw only found the larve feeding on two kinds of aphids,
though he says they doubtless eat other kinds. One was slate-
colored with a white efflorescence (as is the Schizoneura of the alder,
the favorite food of Feniseca tarquinius), the other greenish with
four dark-green patches, some of them being fringed with white,
probably molted skins.

He was not sure, but had some reason for believing, that the larve
tend to resemble in color the aphids upon which they happen to be
feeding. At first, as the eggs had been laid amongst the green
aphids, he fed the larvee upon these; but, a typhoon having washed
away the food supply, he could thereafter find only the slate-colored
species which, however, the larve seemed quite as much to enjoy.
But he noticed soon after that the colors faded, and the purple-
brown tended to mingle with the yellow.

Mr. Kershaw says that one of the features of this curious life his-
tory is the calm way in which the caterpillar moves among the
aphids and selects its prey, and the indifference with which the lat-
ter apparently accepts its fate.

When about to pupate the caterpillars walk about at quite a fair
rate of speed and, having chosen a spot, spin a few threads a little
distance from head and tail. Mr. Kershaw’s larve pupated on a
piece of bark, one putting a band about its middle and pupating
horizontally, the other pupating vertically and without a band,
though both had the threads (not attached to the pupa) at head
and tail.

The tail of the pupa is cut off squarely, forming a disk, thus
securing a good hold, probably sufficient without the band around
the middle. It seems to be affixed with some secretion, not actual
threads. There is a small process on either side of the third segment
from the tail.

The pupal stage lasts about 10 days. As the larval stage lasts
about 15 days and the eggs require 4 days to hatch the time occu-
pied in the various transitions from the freshly laid egg to the
emergence of the butterfly is about 29 days, or about a week longer
than in the case of Meniseca tarquinius.

Both larve and pupe struck Mr. Kershaw as small in compari-
son with the size of the butterfly.

Both the males and females of this butterfly, according to Mr.
Kershaw, are very fond of the exuding juice of the plants upon
which the larve live. Half a dozen may occasionally be seen close
together on a leaf or stem drinking this sap, thrusting their tongues
into any interstices left by the aphids.

It seems to me that what the butterflies are drinking is probably
not the plant juice, but the exudations from the aphids which have
fallen on the plants.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. Kershaw noted that the plants upon which this species lays
its eggs are overrun by a host of ants of two species (Polyrrhachis
dives and Dolichoderus bituberculatus), both aphids and ants appar-
ently feeding on juice exuding from the plants. Any vegetation
subject to these secretions seems to be attractive to them, the ants
not appearing to use the aphids as ant cows, though of this he was
not quite certain.

The ants do not appear to meddle either with the butterflies or with
their eggs, though ants are very destructive to the eggs of most
butterflies; nor do they seem to interfere with the caterpillars.

In contrast to the immunity of this butterfly from the attacks of
ants, Mr. Kershaw saw two small butterflies of other kinds (a skip-
per and a species of Veptis) seized by the tongue as they probed a
flower and dragged off by one of the same species of ants among
which the Gerydus live.

In 1914 Mr. Edward Step published a full page illustration of
“A Butterfly Enemy of Green-fly ” which was based upon the plate
and the data in Mr. Kershaw’s article, though the larve are shown
upon bamboo instead of on Bidens pilosa.

MEGALOPALPUS ZYMNA

Mr. W. A. Lamborn worked out the life history of this species in
the vicinity of Oni Camp, Southern Nigeria. Oni Camp is 70 miles
east of Lagos, at a low elevation, never more than 50 feet above
sea level.

The caterpillars of this butterfly feed not upon aphids, but upon a
variety of Homoptera belonging to the families Jasside and Mem-
bracide which are invariably attended by ants.

The mother butterfly, in depositing her egg, which is a very charac-
teristic one, exercises the same care in insuring an immediate food
supply for the newly hatched larva as do other butterflies for their
plant-eating offspring. She places it very commonly in the imme-
diate neighborhood of an ant shelter containing Homoptera, and
an egg shell is sometimes found attached to a stem actually within
a shelter, having obviously been deposited before the Homoptera
attracted the attention of ants, and, indeed, probably on the egg
mass itself before hatching, since the membracid and jassid colo-
nies seem to remain and feed close to the spot where the parent
laid her eggs.

The egg masses of the jassids (Wehela ornata) are attached to
plants in clusters much like those of the membracids (Leptocentrus
altifrons) ; that is, in parallel rows often superposed so as to form
oval masses. The lycenid larve do not interfere with these.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 457

The eggs of Megalopalpus have been found attached to the egg mass
of the Homoptera (the membracid Leptocentrus altifrons) and in
two cases actually on living and half-grown membracid nymphs.
Mr. Lamborn found two nymphs in the same colony of the membracid
Gargara variegata unsheltered by ants each bearing an egg of Me-
galopalpus, in one case on the right side of the dorsal surface of the
abdomen just behind the wing, and in the other on the base of the
left wing.

The egg of the Megalopalpus is very characteristic, being a circu-
lar disk with a broad flattened white margin and a raised bluish
semitransparent center.

The first larva found by Mr. Lamborn, brown in color and studded
all over with tubercles, was discovered on a young leaf of an urti-
caceous plant (M/usanga smithiz). A number of small black ants
(Pheidole aurivillii r. kasaiensis) were running about over the leaf
on the under side and margins of which they had built* up shelters
of waste vegetable matter such as they construct so frequently over
coccids. On cutting off the leaf with a view to making a closer
examination, he shook it, with the result that several of the tiny
insects left the shelters and jumped to a distance in all directions.
He did not at the time attach any definite significance to the pres-
ence of these insects; but the larva would not feed in captivity.

Two days later he came across another cluster of ant-tended
jassids of the same species on the stem of a different plant, and
at rest close to them was a similar larva over which the ants were
running. He then felt that the association must be more than
accidental, so he cut the stem through and transferred it to a glass
tube. Most of the jassids managed to evade capture by jumping
off, but he secured three which soon gathered together again on the
stem. By evening the ants were ministering to them with their
antennze; as he watched, the larva crawled slowly in the direction
of the insects, stopping frequently and vibrating all three pairs of
true legs. It stopped when it had nearly reached the jassids, and
then again moved on with, he believes, only the first pair of legs
in vibration. It then reached the insects and caused its vibrating
legs to play on the closed wings of a jassid in such a way as to
simulate, as he thought, the caresses of ants. Still advancing, it
gradually raised the fore part of its body so as to overhang the
insect and, when well above, suddenly dropped and seized its prey
with all its true legs, immediately biting in behind the head, hold-
ing the insect pressed down on the stem; and when it had taken sey-
eral mouthfuls, it raised the fore part of its body and continued
feeding, now holding the jassid well away from the stem. ‘The
victim was by this time incapable of movement, and as the larva
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

had no difficulty in retaining it by means of its second and third
pairs of legs, the first pair was used to take up loose fragments
and guide them to the mouth. He saw a loose leg thus taken up and
eaten, and in this way every particle of the unfortunate little “ hop-
per ” was secured.

After the meal the legs of the first pair were drawn one after the
other between the mandibles and then polished on the outer side
of the face, after the manner of a cat.

He continued to watch the larva closely. It remained without
movement for about 20 minutes and then approached another jassid.
This one was evidently not satisfied as to the honesty of its purpose,
for immediately the larva commenced to tickle it the jassid ran
away up the stem to a distance of about half an inch. However,
the larva followed on and overtook it, and in due course it shared
the fate of its predecessor, the series of actions by the larva being
precisely the same as described in the former case.

On the following day he brought in more of the food insects,
and the larva first found made up for its long fast by catching 9
out of 11 between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m.

The procedure was so interesting to him that he actually wit-
nessed the caressing, capture, and eating of most of these, and he
has seen it many times since. The caterpillars eat both nymphs
and imagos of the jassids, but seem to secure more of the former,
for, though they are able to jump and run with surprising activity,
quite as fast as an ordinary ant, the imagos sometimes escape by
flying. When imagos are eaten the hard anterior wings are usually
rejected.

Mr. Lamborn remarks that in nature the slow-moving lyczenid
larve must depend for their very existence on the fact that these
insects are gregarious and if disturbed frequently reassemble at the
same spot.

If the caterpillar is on a broad surface it raises itself anteriorly
when grasping a victim, but when on a narrow surface it drags
the insect off its support by simply bending to one side or the other.

The first two larve found by Mr. Lamborn were feeding on the
jassid Nehela ornata, an active jumping insect which they lull
to a false sense of security by simulating the attentions of ants.
The third larva found would not eat the jassid which was eaten by
the other two. It was found in an ant shelter on 7'72wmfetta cordi-
folia which covered a large number of little green hopping crea-
tures which proved to be immature membracids. Another larva was
found in a shelter containing membracid larve (Gargara varie-
gata). He saw this larva feeding on a large larva of the membracid
type, though he did not actually witness the attack. The cater-
pillar ate the body and then part of the head but was unable to
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 459

finish the meal, for a tiny ant, which had been dragging persist-
ently at the remaining morsel, managed to get it away.

When a new shelter containing Pheidole rotundata var. and
membracid larvee was put into a tube an ant immediately seized the
Megalopalpus larva ventrally just behind the mandibles. This
larva was not successfully reared. é

Other caterpillars of the same species were found in other shel-
ters on 7'riumfetta, and once two were found in a single shelter.

The larva is dark brown, a tint approximating very closely to
the color of the débris out of which the ant shelters are constructed.

The food seems to range within certain limits; but though larvee
have been found eating both jassids and membracids, a larva accus-
tomed to take jassids will refuse membracids and wice versa, and
there is some evidence that a larva which habitually eats one form
of membracid will refuse a closely allied species.

One larva found ate a species of membracid closely allied to Gar-
gara variegata, although it refused that species. Another was
found to feed upon Leptocentrus altifrons.

An ant shelter on 7'’riwmfetta often contains, in addition to imma-
ture examples of Gargara, young membracids of several other spe-
cies, apparently belonging to the genera Anchon and Beninia.
Imagines of the genera Anchon, Beninia, or Gargara are frequently
found in the open on a stem close to an ant shelter and tended by
ants from it. These shelters are constructed by two species of ants.

Not only does Megalopalpus feed in the larval state on the Homop-
tera, but the butterfly seems frequently to flourish also at their ex-
pense, probing them with its proboscis and obtaining food material
direct from their surface as well as from the plant on which they
happen to be resting. As this habit is as characteristic of males
as of females it can not be interpreted as bearing any relation to
oviposition.

Mr. Lamborn has not found that the ants derive any benefit from
the presence of this larva, or that they are of service to it. ‘There
is, on the contrary, some evidence to show that their attitude toward
it is distinctly one of hostility, in connection with which it is note-
worthy that the larva is not of the smooth, soft, onisciform type
characteristic of the Lycenids, but is protected by a hard skin
studded with tubercles which are surmounted by coarse sparse hairs.

The ants in attendance on the jassids frequently run over these
caterpillars and stroke them with their antenne, but are not so at-
tentive as they are to other lyceenid larva. Mr. Lamborn was under
the impression that the attitude of the small black house ants to-
ward this caterpillar was distinctly hostile. Besides the one men-
tioned above another caterpillar was attacked by house ants, one
of which fastened on to one of its legs so that it had to be removed.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. Lamborn several times watched Megalopalpus zymna deposit
a single egg among ants, which have subsequently investigated it
with their antennz, but have not interfered with it.

LipHyRA BRASSOLIS

Mr. F. P. Dodd, of Townsville, Queensland, published in June,
1902, an interesting account of this remarkable butterfly.

He had noticed a female on a warm sunny day in July, 1900, de-
positing eggs upon a tree which was in complete possession of the
green tree ant (@cophylla smaragdina). Upon this tree there were
several large nests of the ants, and the butterfly would rapidly fly
over the top of the tree once or twice, then come underneath and
settle on one of the branches near the trunk. There were four spots
to which it returned at different times after its flights, and on ex-
amination he found that there were two or three eggs deposited on
each. Judging from the number of flights he believed that only
one egg was laid at each rest. He has since frequently seen the
eggs on other trees in ones, twos, or more; but deposits of two, in
several different places, is the number usually to be met with. The
eggs are placed on the under side of branches, or on the protected
side of the trunk.

He took several of the eggs, and in 22 days the larvee, flat oval
creatures, appeared, but refused to eat, and died. He had taken
them on the chance of their being leaf eaters, and with the ants
merely for protection, as he had found is the case with several
other Australian lycenids—Arhopalas and Hypolycena phorbas.

Some weeks later he pulled the habitations of the ants to pieces,
but could find no traces of larvee from the ova left untouched and
was unsuccessful with many other nests examined.

During the next few months he examined scores of nests in the
hopes of finding the caterpillars of this butterfly, but without suc-
cess. However, he eventually stumbled across a caterpillar when
searching an ants’ nest for other insects.

This individual was half grown, the size and shape being about
that of a medium-sized lozenge, with a rim, as in a coin, bordering
it all around, but raised somewhat along the dorsal surface. The
color was a very pale yellowish brown with seven dark spots on
each side near the margin. Across the center of the dorsal surface
there were three furrows reaching nearly to the sides. These fur-
rows are constant through all the molts (he notes it must be borne
in mind that he has not examined larve less than about one-third
grown, those obtained from the eggs having been lost before he had
noticed them particularly), nor do they disappear even when the
larval skin becomes the outer pupal shell. The head, legs, and pro-
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 461

legs are in a groove the edges of which close down tightly all
around; consequently they are seldom seen, except, of course, during
progression, when the body is raised a little.

After this discovery he met with other larve, generally larger
and of a darker brown, and finally obtained pupx and bred out a
series of the perfect insect.

Taking several larve and supplying them with ant grubs, he soon
had the satisfaction of observing one individual approach a half-
grown grub, deliberately seize it, and withdraw it from sight; but,
being impatient, he turned it over soon after, and it slowly released
its hold of the grub. Unfortunately he failed to observe anything
of the kind again.

Finding that the caterpillars did not thrive upon ant larve alone,
they were supplied with small nests containing ants and pupe as
well, but in a week or so they showed signs of sickness. By chang-
ing the ant nests he kept several other caterpillars for nearly two
weeks. They also became sickly and had to be returned to nests on
the trees. However, they deposited frass, showing that they had
been feeding; this is small for such bulky creatures, is gray or
grayish white, and is greasy looking. So, though he could not posi-
tively declare that they exist upon the ant larve, he was quite satis-
fied himself that they do.

As five or even six caterpillars may be found in one nest, the
quantity of food required by such large creatures must be consider-
able, though they are very slow growing; but the masses of ant
larvee could be drawn upon without making any great reduction
in them.

He mentioned that he had at hand young caterpillars of a moth
that feeds upon another species of ant living in the ground. When
given the fresh grubs they soon take a lively interest in them and
affix themselves thereto, appearing to suck their victims. None of
the grubs are eaten, but they are considerably smaller and much
shriveled when finished with. The moth is even more greasy than
the butterfly. None of the grubs given to Z. brassolis were eaten,
but some had the same shriveled appearance as those given to the
moth larvee.

When the caterpillars are about to cast their skins they spin a
webbed footing nearly their whole length, to which they affix them-
selves rather firmly; but in many instances the ants secure them still
more firmly to their position, the web reaching half way to, or even
up to the rim. Whether this ant web is added with friendly intent
or with a view to fastening down a larva to get rid of it if possible
is a puzzling matter; but Mr. Dodd has not met with any dead larvee
so fastened. Pupz are occasionally treated in a similar manner
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

without the escape of the butterflies being thereby prevented. The
larger larvee require three to four days after taking up their molt-
ing position to crawl out of their old skins, which become a little
darker and finally split downwards under the front edge and right
and left along the rim. The old skin retains its shape above and,
being relieved of its occupant, regains its former color, so that,
viewed casually, it is difficult to believe that it is an empty shell, so
closely does it resemble a real larva.

In changing to the pupa the larval skin is not cast off, but changes
its shape and becomes a comparatively strong outer covering.
The insect shrinks away from this and becomes detached, so that
it can be shaken like a nut in its shell. The true pupal skin is very
thin and transparent and, provided, of course, the outer shell is
opened, the color changes of the chrysalis can be observed plainly.
After the larva has taken up its position for the transformation
there is no change for 36 hours or so, the first being a narrowing of
the thoracic portion with an increased thickness of the same. Upon
examining the future pupa at this time underneath it will be noticed
that the shell has closed in on each side enveloping the head and legs
completely; no closing in upon the prolegs occurs. For some hours
no further alteration takes place; then the remaining portion of the
creature contracts, accompanied by a considerable rise in the dorsal
surface, the pupal change, so far as can be ascertained from external
observation, now being complete. For several days after the shell
is liable to split at the outside edge or rim if care in handling it is
not taken, the whole of the top being liable to split and come off like
a lid, and the chrysalis, being particularly delicate and pulpy, may
be killed.

The perfect insect emerges in from 21 to 25 days, and further
astonishing developments in the life history of this strange insect
occur. Before bursting the outer shell the butterfly can be heard
moving within, and shortly a sharp, cracking sound announces that
the burst has been effected. Then either a portion of the shell, which
opens in the center in front up to the first furrow, is broken right
out or it opens sufficiently above after breaking away at the rim to
admit of the imago’s emergence.

Instead of the weak drooping wings of a butterfly the creature
that emerges has little short appendages like those of a freshly
emerged moth, and lying very flat; the front wing is creamy white
to the extreme tip, and the edge of the hind wing projects from
under this ever so little. The abdomen looks very large, a thick
mass of furry looking substance showing on each side of it to the
tip. On the thorax small tufts of loose, brownish scales may be
noted which easily roll off.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 463

It is soon seen that the white appearance of the fore wing is caused
by a dense covering of fugitive scales; there is also a small patch of
‘hese on either side of the thorax. As the wings slowly lengthen
the density of the scales lessens sufficiently to admit a view of the
black and rich yellow coloring underneath.

After the expansion of the wings these white scales fly off at the
least breath of air. A stroke or two of the insect’s wing detaches
every one in a cloud; thus it is a difficult matter to kill and set
specimens and leave a fair proportion of these scales.

The matter on the abdomen is, of course, also composed of scales,
They are dark gray, packed very densely, and cover about half
the ventral surface, reach farther along the sides, but do not reach
the thorax, none being on the upper surface. These are much more
adhesive, and must be scraped away as they can not be blown off;
they come away in masses and fasten lightly to anything they come
in contact with; they appear to be held together. Upon examining
them with a lens exceedingly delicate threads can be discerned dis-
persed throughout.

The legs and antenne are also clothed with minute and easily
detachable white scales.

The insect requires longer than the largest Australian moths to
pump its wings to their full length. Mr. Dodd notes that it takes
from 25 to 30 minutes, and instead of being prepared for flight in
a little over an hour, like many large moths, is quite helpless for a
much longer period, and none of Mr. Dodd’s examples exhibited
the least desire to fly in three or even four hours.

The butterflies are very oily, A thick layer of almost liquid
grease lines the abdomen, so that in setting them Mr. Dodd found
it necessary to resort to stuffing. Unfortunately, this operation
causes displacement of the extra scales to some extent, especially
in the males.

As to the butterfly being crepuscular in its habits, Mr. Dodd
mentions that he is frequently out in the twilight, but has not met
with it, though that may be on account of its rarity. However, it
is decidedly wide awake in the daytime. Mr. Dodd captured several
which he had disturbed as any ordinary butterfly would be dis-
turbed. Several times they have flown from near ant nests which
he was about to examine. One specimen was seen flying across an
open space in the early afternoon, and had evidently come from a
fair distance as there were no ant nests in the vicinity. Many years
ago he caught his first specimen, a female, on a hot summer day at
about 11 o’clock. It flew rapidly across a scrub and settled on a
branch under the foliage precisely as the ege-depositing female did
which he observed in July, 1900.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Concerning the loose scales on this unique butterfly Mr. Dodd
says we have no evidence that the larvee are welcome inhabitants of
the ants’ nests. However, it is highly probable that the ants have
no friendly feeling for the perfect insect, and would most likely
attack and kill it during its long rest after emergence if it were not
specially and wonderfully protected. So it will be seen that the
loose scales act as a perfect protection; for directly the ants en-
counter these they are in trouble; they fasten on to their feet and
impede their movements or, if their antennze or mandibles come into
contact with any part of the butterfly the scales adhere thereto, so
that the ant is soon in a bad way and has quite enough to do in
attempting to free itself of its encumbrances without taking any
further interest in the butterfly, from which it retreats as well as
possible. It is exceedingly ludicrous to observe the ants endeavor-
ing to free themselves; their legs move awkwardly, and their mandi-
bles are opened and closed in evident annoyance and perplexity, and
they are much concerned at the state of their antennx, for the
obnoxious scales will.not be shaken off. It is amusing to observe
the dejected change in an ant after its first spar with L. brassolis,
for it is such a pert, pugnacious fellow and perfectly willing to
tackle anything that moves if in proximity to its pets or nest.

The small wings of the insect enable it to get through the nest
entrance. ‘The scales on the forewing are necessary to its safety
while it is crawling out, for the ants might in some cases evade its
legs and get onto the thorax. But if the scales there did not van-
quish them, those on the forewings would. As the butterfly’s
abdomen becomes strong enough it raises the tip to touch the sup-
port where it is hanging. In that position it is invulnerable; hun-
dreds of ants could not hurt it. As the forewings lengthen and
touch there is no further need of the scales thereon. The wind
doubtless dislodges the majority before the insect flies off, but the
other scales would not wholly disappear for some time.

Mr. Dodd placed four larvz on a nest where he knew there were
none, and afterwards visited it and obtained from it two pupe.
On another small tree with several ant nests seven larvee were
placed, and going there some days later he found one chrysalis on
the outside of a nest, one within, several attenuated larvee wandering
about the tree—the ants, having become familiar with them, taking
no notice of them—and a dead larva on the ground. It would ap-
pear that the entrance to the nests was too small for the larger
caterpillars to gain admittance. Once he saw a larva on the outside
of a new nest, and he took a pupa on another. These were in locali-
ties where he had not interfered with the ants. These instances
serve to show, according to Mr. Dodd, that the larvee pass from one
domicile to another, presumably when their food is exhausted in
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 465

one. They are very slow moving, and when they find it necessary
to change quarters they must wander after sundown, for out of
over 80 larve and pupe that passed through Mr. Dodd’s hands not
a single example was parasitized.

The larve of LZ. brassolis are evidently so tough skinned that the
mandibles of the ants can make little or no impression upon them,
for in placing specimens upon a nest the inmates rush out at them,
catch hold of the rim, and appear to be acting most viciously. They
also endeavor to reach the head or legs, but these are at once pro-
tected; the creature just lowers its great sides and is secure. After
examining caterpillars that had been on nests for several days, and
tugged at and nipped by dozens of ants, not a mark or wound was
discernible; yet if the slightest cut be made in the rim with a knife
juices issue as from any ordinary caterpillar with an opening in the
skin.

In concluding Mr. Dodd says that it is not all pleasure searching
for L. brassolis, or for other insects, in the habitations of the green
tree ant. This species is as plucky and determined as the fierce
and dreaded “ bull dog” and “ jumper ” ants and comes trouping in
hundreds from all parts of the tree when a nest is disturbed. Then
there is the multitude in the nest itself, also those in other nests, for
often there are many nests in even a small tree. ‘These ants are
remarkably quick to get upon and spread themselves over an
intruder. They do not waste their energies in biting one’s clothing,
but directly they reach the flesh they commence operations, and
one’s neck and arms suffer considerably. ‘The bite of the insect is
trifling, but it discharges a liquid onto the bitten spot which gives a
sharp pain.

In approaching closely to an ants’ nest, or to a place where they
are in attendance upon scale insects, aphids, or other forms, they
show fight unmistakably. While they are prancing and plainly
showing that they are desirous of a closer acquaintanceship it will
be noticed that the abdomens are held up and occasionally jerked
forward. This jerking action means that the insect has brought his
little “squirt ” into play, a jet of decidedly acrid liquid being dis-
charged therefrom, sent straight over its head, and capable of strik-
ing an object several inches directly in front before it assumes
a downward tendency. Having received several of these jets, or
part of them, in the eyes, on the lips, and often had the liquid in
cuts and scratches, Mr. Dodd can testify as to its stinging properties.
When hundreds of ants are sending forth these jets, which can be
seen against the sun, it behooves one to be careful when in their
immediate vicinity.

Mr. Dodd says that, though there are many interesting insects
in Queensland, this green tree ant with its vast colonies, its curious -
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

habit of using its larvee as implements wherewith to spin its nests,
and its queer and varied acquaintances, is the most remarkable of
all.

Commenting on Mr. Dodd’s account of the habits of Liphyra
brassolis, Mr. E. Ernest Green noted that the fact that the larve
are really carnivorous seems to be proved by their having seized and
attempted to eat some of the ant grubs; but they do not appear to
have been satisfied with that diet. He therefore asked, is it not
possible that their proper food may be some coccid inclosed in the
ants’ nests? Mr. Green remarked that in Ceylon the arboreal nests
of the same ant almost invariably include colonies of Coccide,
Aphide, or Aleurodide.

Dr. T. A. Chapman described in detail three larve of Liphyra
brassolis sent to England by Mr. Dodd. Two of these were appar-
ently full grown, while the other was very much smaller. In these
two sizes the larve are so very different that had they come from
different places and possessed different histories one would never
suspect that they were at all related.

The smallest caterpillar was 6 mm. long and 2.3 mm. broad and
very flat, reminding one very much of the larva of Camponiscus
luridiventris (a common alder saw-fly) in its general size and form;
or, for that matter, of an ordinary Lycana larva, if we make it
first, colorless, then nearly flat instead of raised along the dorsal line,
and, thirdly, if we somewhat exaggerate the rounded lateral projec-
tions of the segmental margins. '

The segmental divisions as seen dorsally are 12, of which the
first and last are terminal. White and soft as this larva looks, the
margins, nevertheless, have something of the appearance and struc-
ture of the full-grown larva, having a strong chitinous binding
divided into small cells.

The prothorax has a slight angle on either side, allowing the
front between the two angles to be a transverse straight line. The
head is beneath this, placed quite centrally, quite free from it, and
capable of much movement, including probable protrusion in front.

The last segment visible dorsally is the ninth abdominal, and
beneath this is the tenth carrying the anal prolegs. In a ventral
view of the larva the true segmental divisions are very plain.

The prothoracic spiracle les in the fold between the pro- and
mesothorax, but the abdominal spiracles are each on about the
middle of its own segment, placed dorsally, about half way from
the middle line to the margin. Doctor Chapman did not detect
anywhere any hairs or tubercles.

The nervous ganglia are very visible as reddish brown masses.
There is a large one in the prothorax that represents the cephalic
and cesophageal. The prothoracic proper is placed toward the pos-
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 467

terior margin of the segment. ‘There is one each in the mesothorax
and eight following segments. The last and largest of these, though
in the sixth abdominal segment, appears to belong to the seventh
and following segments, which are without ganglia.

The prolegs are of much interest when compared with those of
the full-grown larva. They have a rather thick cylindrical base,
and have the usual form of one row of crotchets, facing inward,
13 to 17 in number. On the anal claspers these are much smaller
and few in number (9), and are similarly in one row. The true
legs are short and thick, and terminate in very curved claws.

The head is small, about 2.5 mm. in diameter; it has in front (on
the epicranium, clypeus, and labrum) a number of short stiff hairs,
the largest about 0.08 mm. in length. None were seen elsewhere.

The antenne are rather longer than this, but happen to be tele-
scoped. The second segment is not in evidence. As found the
antenne are about 0.06 mm. long and 0.04 mm. thick, with a ter-
minal armament of bristles, amongst which the third segment is
not clearly discriminated.

The head itself is rather dark in color from being well chitinized ;
beneath it are three circles, carrying jointed palpus-like appendages
of which the central one is largest and represents probably the
labrum, with the other two as labial palpi. The two lateral ones,
according to Doctor Chapman, are, however, probably the max-
illary palpi, especially as they appear to have another ill-developed
process.

The jaws are long, and cross one another for some distance. Each
seems to consist of a straight conical process with only one sharp
terminal point—a simple spike or dagger.

Doctor Chapman remarked that the large larva is a very differ-
ent object. Looking down on its back there is to be seen an approxi-
“mately flat surface, oval in form, rather narrower in front than be-
hind, with a margin smooth, regular, uniform, and of the same tex-
ture, etc., all around, with no trace of segmentation. It measured
23 mm. in length by 15 mm. in width. When placed on its flat
ilorsal surface it stands up above the flat supporting surface about
5.6 mm., and shows a level, but not smooth, top, and smooth and
sloping sides. ‘The amount of slope may be seen by a comparison
of the top and bottom; the top (the ventral surface of the larva)
is 18 by 7 mm., as against the 23 by 15 mm. just mentioned. The
slope is almost nil at the head end, and therefore so much the more
elsewhere.

The dorsal surface and the sides are brown, hard, and chitinous.
The sloping sides show little indication of segmentation, but at the
margin of the open (and soft) ventral area they present a series
of dark markings very slightly raised on rounded elevations, but
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

so shaded as to appear very much so. The small flat ventral area
of the larva is pale and white, and is the only portion where any
movement can possibly occur, the rest being a solid chitinous cap.
Constructed as it is to permit this soft area to be absolutely cov-
ered and hidden on the surface on which the larva rests, one is sur-
prised at its widening out above this area, quite regularly until,
at a sudden sharp margin, the sides meet the flat top. The brown
marginal marks are apparently two to a segment, certainly so at
the sides where they are largest, and where a faint depression along
the sloping sides seems to mark each segmental division. To see
this, however, requires close examination, and some might say a
little imagination.

Turning the larva over again to examine the back more carefully,
we find the margin very sharp and slightly browner than the terra-
cotta center. Laterally and posteriorly it is a little hollowed within
the margin. Across the middle are three very distinct lines, darker
in color, and with the surface in front decidedly higher than behind.
They occupy the middle two-thirds of the surface, but do not invade
the fourths on each side next the margin. In front and behind
these the indications of the segmental divisions are very obscure.
A faint indication of a dorsal ridge exists in front of these lines.
There are also a number of dots that appear to be obsolete hair
points, arranged in some degree as a transverse line across each seg-
ment, but with outlines enough to make such a statement a little
doubtful or even misleading. The two segments marked out by the
dorsal lines are the fourth and fifth abdominal.

The character of the sharp margin of the dorsal area needs a
little more definite description. In the first place the out-sloping
sides for their top millimeter cease to slope, but become vertical ;
then inside the sharp border the surface descends again steeply so
as to form a sharp raised border to the central area. In front
the inner slope soon bends into the flat dorsal area; behind it does
so more slowly, resulting in the hollow before noticed. Around
this portion there is, inside as well as outside the sharp margin,
a breadth of about 1 mm., differentiated by a slight line from the
general dorsal surface.

Seen microscopically, the whole surface consists of very minute
raised dots, each carrying a fine point; on the marginal flange sur-
rounding the dorsum these are modified into an arrangement that
has just the appearance of overlapping fish scales.

The spiracles are difficult to find; in fact, Doctor Chapman
failed to find the thoracic spiracle. The abdominal spiracles are
precisely where they are in the small larva. They are very small,
and differ little in appearance from the hair-dots noted above.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 469

They are minute holes with no marginal structure. Some trace
of the true spiracles can be seen at a little depth within them, accom-
panied by a scalelike outer margin.

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about this larva is the modi-
fication which has affected the prolegs. When we examine the soft
under side of the larva the head, true legs, and prolegs are seen
very much as in the young larva. The head, however, is nearly
white, and so are the true legs except for the tarsal tips.

Beginning at the margin of the dorsal shield one finds that the
shagreened points of the general surface carry hairs of various
lengths, some almost evanescent, others nearly 0.25 mm. long.
These no doubt assist in making the apposition of the larva to its
resting place more complete. They seem to be true hairs jointed at
the base, and the points on the dorsum are probably also really hairs
rather than spicules.

The shagreened dots are about 0.08 mm. in diameter. As one
passes inward from the margin the hairs get rather thicker, and
retain their length of from 0.20 to 0.28 mm., the shagreened bases
lose all chitinous color, and a short way in there is apparently a
smooth surface thickly studded with white, short. thick hairs. As
we approach the prolegs these get shorter and sharper, and fail
altogether at a line just below the summit of the column at the top
of which is the retractile portion of the leg. There, just at the mar-
gin of the summit of the column, is a compact circle of crotchets
that differ in no very decided manner from those ordinarily found
on prolegs. Within this circle is a white projecting mass of tissue
with a ridge along its summit from front to back, with parallel
striae running down to the margin. The crotchets are hooked out-
wards, have a short flat base applied to the surface of attachment,
and, without forming two or three regular rows, are in more than
one row. The little smooth space outside them gives them room for
movement without being interfered with by the hairs that clothe
the rest of this under surface.

These circles of crotchets, which are to all appearance identical
with the complete circles found on the prolegs of “micro” larve,
are not the ordinary crotchets at all, but an entirely new structure.
The true crotchets exist in the young larve, but in this full-grown
one are merely represented by the striz on the central fleshy mass
noticed, which is really the true proleg. The crotchets here existing
are around the summit of the pillar, at the center of which the true
proleg is often placed. Doctor Chapman says that its method
of working must be very similar to that of the “micro” full cir-
cle, but instead of having a central tendon as they have it has the

76041—26——31
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

whole proleg structure by the movement of which it must be ex-
panded and contracted so as to take and relax its hold.

The true legs are rather small and rather thick, and densely, or
at least very closely and regularly, clothed with fine white hairs.
They terminate in a claw, slightly hooked, slender as compared with
the last joint of the leg, dark in color, making it look very strong
and sharp, and capable of being flexed so as to fold up on to the
last (tarsal) joint of the proleg, reminding one of the tibie of Nepa
or Mantis.

The head is nearly colorless, about 1.7 mm. wide. Centrally below
the mouth and pointing backward is the labium, or part of it, a
pale conical rather than cylindrical process ending in a_ short
chitinous tube (spinneret?). On each side is a long palpus
(maxillary?) of three joints, the last very small, projecting ven-
trally and apparently with a fleshy process (maxilla?) toward the
middle line. In front is a tolerably normal labrum, square and
notched below, with a good many short hairs on its anterior surface.
The antenne are very long, about 1.1 mm., and regularly clothed
with fine hairs; Doctor Chapman could not recognize a basal joint,
if there be one; the next, therefore the first, is very long, 1 mm.,
and also thick, about 0.22 mm. The last joint is a small square piece
about 0.1 mm.

The labrum is very fixed in its position and moves little. Doctor
Chapman says that even if he is deceived in this matter by having
only stiff preserved specimens to deal with he is certain that it fits
down very closely and tightly laterally in the maxillary bases, leay-
ing in front an oval opening between it and the labium within which
the jaws are visible, with apparently some room for movement in
the cavity thus formed.

Each jaw carries three teeth, each a long sharp spine capable of
piercing, but certainly not of biting. ach jaw is probably capable
of meeting the other, so that the teeth may interlock; but in the
specimens examined one jaw is entirely in front of the other.

There are six eye spots, five of them in a circle, the other separate.

The head, which looks sunken into the white fleshy tissue of the
under side of the larva, is really very moveable and has a definite
neck (?), so that the mouth parts, which are at the front of the
head and point more or less forwards, can be directed directly
backwards between the true legs, exposing the front or dorsum of
the head, which is rather longer than broad, nearly colorless, and
has some hairs and the usual suture marking off the clypeus.

Doctor Chapman also had a larva of intermediate size which
differed from the larger one in nothing except, perhaps, that the
spiracles were more readily seen than in the full grown one.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 471

The pupa which he had was very large, 28 mm. long, 14 mm.
broad, and 10 mm. deep, while it was depressed in front in a way
apparently due to pressure. Were the rounded contour of the dor-
sum and sides continued, its depth would be 12 mm.

It is typically lycenid in form, being very round at either end,
broadest at the fourth and fifth abdominal segments, narrower
thoracically; the head is beneath; there are no movable segments;
there are no traces of cremastral hooks, or of any silken girdle; the
first leg hes equally against head and antenne. The maxille are
well developed. They appear to contain no maxilla (the individual
being close to emergence), but the labial palpi are very evident be-
neath them.

The most characteristic feature of the pupa is a set of flanges or
raised ribs. If the pupa were divided into a dorsal and ventral
piece by a section through its widest dimensions, the line of sec-
tion would mark one of these ribs, which starts around the abdominal
segments from the anal angle of the wings (end of vein Ic) and
goes round the end of the pupa, diviling the last segment into two
portions. This segment is consequently of considerable anteropos-
terior dimensions, stretching a good way under the pupa, but also
having a portion, as it were, lifted right out onto the dorsum by
having to be above the flange.

The segmental incisions are all raised into double ridges; but
below the marginal flange above noted, though with no trace of
anything of the sort above it, each segment has another single
ridge or flange about one-third of the way in front of each incision.
The scars of prolegs are well marked by large areas into which these
ribs do not intrude.

Doctor Chapman remarks that these flanges are obviously the
remains of the great marginal border of the caterpillar, and of the
division beneath it of each segment into two. The marginal ridge
extends forward through the wings; but the pupal shell is so deli-
cate that it is difficult to say whether this ridge is in the wing covers
or an indication of a flange on the segments beneath them showing
through.

The spiracles are more obvious than in the larva, and occupy a
similarly dorsal position. The pupa is very smooth and polished,
at least thoracically; the abdomen has very numerous, almost micro-
scopic, hair points.

Doctor Chapman also had a specimen of the pupa within the
larval skin, which fully illustrated Mr. Dodd’s account of how
pupation occurs. The larval skin becomes a little altered by the
dorsum being rather raised and rounded, but substantially it is the
full grown larva one sees, and this forms a case or cocoon, precisely
472 : ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

as happens in the pupation of the Muscide. The pupa inside les
quite free from any attachment to the skin, but the ventral depres-
sion of the pupa is due to its having to fit on the ventral aspect
of the larval skin, which is raised centrally by the head, legs;
prolegs, etc.

The larval skin dehisces by cracking around the marginal crest
in front and by a crack across the front of the three ridges—that
is, between the third and fourth abdominal segments. The semi-
circular portion thus marked off again divides longitudinally into
two portions. In Doctor Chapman’s specimen one of these por-
tions was missing, the other loose.

Dr. William M. Mann found several of the caterpillars of L-
phyra brassolis at Tulagi, British Solomon Islands, in the leaf and
silk nests of @cophylla smaragdina var. subnitida. He remarks
that these larve much resemble those of Microdon and glide along
in a similar manner, though very much faster.

EXULIPHYRA MIRIFICA

All of our knowledge regarding the early stages of this curious
form we owe to Mr. W. A. Lamborn whose observations were made
at Oni Camp, 70 miles east of Lagos, Southern Nigeria.

Mr. Lamborn made a window into a nest of the “ tree-driver ”
ant (@ceophylla smaragdina race longinoda) by snipping out a
square piece of leaf with a pair of scissors, and on looking in he
saw a larva which he recognized at once, as it was similar to one
which he had previously seen assailed by these ants, but which had
successfully protected itself by drawing down its hard carapace-
like shield in limpet fashion to the supporting surface. He tore
the nest open and discovered more larve, and thereupon took ants
and all home in a tin box. He broke other nests open and found
Jarve in four more, bringing up the total of larve secured to 19.
The larvee were not all of the same age in each nest.

He remarked that the head of this larva is remarkable. When
the. larva is at rest and usually when it crawls the head is com-
pletely hidden by a fold of skin which extends all around so as to
form with the leathery skin of the back and sides a kind of cara-
pace. The head is sometimes thrust forward under the fore margin
of this fold, and one then sees quite a long neck gradually tapering
to a point terminated by fine jaws.

As it crawls the larva frequently swings this proboscis first to
one side and then to the other as if in search of food. It took Mr.
Lamborn 48 hours to find out the source of their food supply, for
they did not touch the leaves, and he did not see them attack ants
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 473

or ant larve; neither did they go near the dead insects which the
ants had stored as food.

He actually saw one of these larve thrust its little proboscis into
the jaws of a large ant and keep it there while the ant made move-
ments as if feeding it. Sometimes, too, when a large ant was feed-
ing a smaller one the latter retired in favor of a caterpillar. The
caterpillars were frequently near with extended proboscis when the
ants were ministering to their own male and female larve.

He noticed that the feeding does not seem to take place very
often, and presumed that the high nutritive value of the material
provided makes it unnecessary.

When the larva feeds the fore part of the body is raised and the
margins of the lateral folds of cuticle are bent around until they
meet, thus protecting the soft ventral surface. The head comes out
at the apex of the cone thus formed.

The larve appear to be extremely slow growing.

The head and neck of the larve appear to a protected eat
attack, but the ants lose no opportunity of seizing other parts. He
once saw a larva crawling with an ant fastened to one of its clasp-
ers, the abdomen only of the ant being visible, as the rest of its
body was under the lateral fold of skin. He also saw a larva which
protected itself by just settling down closely on the supporting
surface, and when the ants retired it raised itself a little and
crawled, but when they reappeared it settled down again.

Mr. Lamborn notes that observations on these larve are diffi-
cult, as interference with their nests causes the ants to remove to
a new home nearly every time.

Some half-stupefied larvee were put into an ants’ nest. Such as
happened to fall on their backs were immediately seized by the
ants. Mr. Lamborn also found that a healthy larva placed on its
back had difficulty in turning over and is in this position liable to
attack. In one instance he saw a larva with an ant gripping it by
the neck on the ventral side.

Two larve of this species each about 20 mm. in length collected
by Mr. Lamborn were described in detail by Dr. Harry Eltringham.
He noted that the dorsal and lateral views present an appearance
recalling that of a mollusk rather than that of a lepidopterous
larva. The ground color is brownish ochreous, and there are several
irregular markings of a rich umber brown. The lateral portion of
the larval skin is extended and modified into a kind of mantle,
the edge of which touches whatever the larva may be resting on.
From the edge of the mantle the sides, which present an irregular
and wavy surface, slope up to the dorsal area, along the whole
length of which is a deep groove bounded on each side by a hard
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

chitinous ridge, the latter, except at the extremities, being thrown
into a series of deep curving folds. This dorsal groove curves down
to the mantle edge rather abruptly at the hinder end, but more
gradually at the anterior extremity. Round the edge of the
mantle there are 24 dark brown spots, many of which are extended
toward the dorsal region as irregular marks, and between these
markings there are sometimes smaller spots of the same color.

On each side there are nine spiracles. The first lies just above the
second dark spot of the mantle edge, the second is above the fourth
spot, and the remainder correspond in position to the mantle spots
beneath them. The third is placed very far up the side, the fourth
is a little lower, and the remainder are still lower and in a nearly
straight line.

The whole structure of the exposed portion of this remarkable
larva is profoundly modified, presumably as a protection against
the attacks of the ants by which in life it is surrounded.

The entire skin is covered with thick chitinous plates, which are
irregularly radiate and have sloping edges. The projections of these
plates interlock with the lateral cavities of those adjacent, and the
appearance under a high power is not unlike that of a complicated
armor sheet of cogwheels. Such an arrangement doubtless pro-
vides a very efficient protective covering with a maximum of flex-
ibility. The plates vary considerably in size and in the extent to
which the edges are sloped.

Microscopic examination shows that the brown markings on the

‘larva are caused by the presence of small brush-like chitinous
tufts, one of which arises from the socket in the center of each chitinous
plate. In the unpigmented parts of the skin, from which these
tufts are absent, the plates still have the sockets, so that at one period
of its evolution the larva probably had the tufts, or at least some
scale-like growth, on every plate.

Here and there in the armor, especially (probably exclusively)
on the pigmented areas, there are small round openings, the edges
of the adjacent chitinous plates being neatly hollowed, so that each
forms its representative part of the circle. Doctor Eltringham sug-
gests that possibly these apertures sre the external openings of
glands, though he had no proof of this. If, as he believes, they
are confined to the pigmented areas, this would probably account
for the correlated presence of the brush-like tufts, which may either
protect the openings, or, as Professor Pouiton has suggested, hold
some attractive secretion prized by the ants.

The extreme outer edge of the mantle is armed with a regular
fringe of flat, chitinous projections, their bases furnished with inter-
locking processes. On the upper side of each projection there is a
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 475

thin scale, very narrow at its socket, but increasing outwardly to
about the same width as the projection on which it lies. The pur-
pose of these scales is not very obvious, but possibly they may have
a tactile function. Within the peripheral fringe so formed there is
a row of thick elongated chitinous plates, the edges of which are
provided with somewhat irregular interlocking processes. Hach
plate has a scale socket, but apparently does not bear either a scale
or a brush-like tuft.

The spiracles have three slitlike openings, a long central one,
with others less than half as long above and below. Doctor Eltring-
ham says that most, if not all, of these have these openings, although
it is sometimes difficult to be sure of the presence of all three.
Protection is afforded by stiff pointed hairs, for the most part cury-
ing inward toward or over the spiracular orifices. Finally the hard
chitinous ridges of the dorsal groove are armed with very short
hooklike spines and there are a few spines or hairs on the under-
side of the mantle edge so arranged as to preclude entry if the
mantle were raised at any part.

On turning the larva over its lepidopterous character becomes
more evident. The head, three pairs of true legs, and five pairs of
prolegs can now be seen. The true legs seem to become progres-
sively slightly larger from in front backwards, while the last pair
of prolegs are much smaller than the others. The prolegs are of
what Doctor Chapman has described as the “ macro” type, having
hooks only on the inner margins of the feet.

The head calls for special remark, owing to its modification in
adaptation to the habits of the species. It is elongated and some-
what conical in form, and when withdrawn there is around the base
a deeply invaginated fold of cuticle. There are six ocelli, four of
which are anterior and le in a small semicircle, the remaining two
being rather more posteriorly placed. The antenne are placed
laterally just above the labrum; and beneath the latter, and in a
dorsal view concealed by it, are the mandibles. These have four
ridgelike teeth. The maxille have two large lobes each with two
small points, and in the actual specimen le close together forming
what looks like a pointed organ projecting from beneath the labrum,
when viewed from above. There are large maxillary palpi, and the
labrum is long and somewhat pointed and has on it a small papilla,
possibly a tactile organ. ‘There is some evidence of a second and
smaller papilla. The mouth parts are exceedingly small and difli-
cult to make out distinctly.

The pupa is attached in a peculiar way to a leaf, its suckerlike
extremity being spread out and apparently cemented down. The
larval skin is not completely shed, but is split open on the exposure
of the pupa, afterwards remaining in this expanded condition.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

In comparing these larve with the larve of Liphyra brassolis
Doctor Eltringham notes that in the latter the cuticle is not pro-
vided with interlocking plates as in Luliphyra mirifica, but is covered
all over with chitinous tubercles, and at the edges of the mantle is
provided with numerous short sete. ‘There is no dorsal groove, and
the cuticle is not thrown into ridges. As Doctor Chapman has
stated, the spiracles are minute holes without marginal structure.
The mouth parts are larger than in Huliphyra. The antenne are
certainly longer and more conspicuous, and the jaws are more
adapted for piercing and tearing. The peculiar modification of the
prolegs is not evident in H'uliphyra.

ASLAUGA VININGA

As was discovered by Mr. W. A. Lamborn at Oni Camp, in South-
ern Nigeria, the larvee of this species are carnivorous, feeding upon
tiny smooth hemispherical coccids (Pseudococcus longispinus, a com-
mon and widely distributed pest, and Lecaniwm punctuliferum)
which are attached in colonies to the stems or leaves of different
plants. On some leaves they occur in great numbers at the base on
the under side, filling up the depressions between the main ribs and
clustering also on the stem just below the insertion of the petioles
(Pseudococcus longispinus), or on the stems of various plants,
especially kola (Lecanium punctuliferum var. lamborni).

The coccids are attended by ants, which cover them with carton-
like shelters composed largely of finely comminuted vegetable detri-
tus among which there are fragments of bud scales and numerous
unicellular epidermal plant hairs.

ASLAUGA LAMBORNI

Mr. Lamborn found that the larve of this species present the same
general characteristics as those of A. vininga, being oblong in dorsal
view with lateral surfaces sloping downwards and outwards. They
have a hard, tough, toad-colored skin covered with coarse rough
tubercles evidently protective in function, which is extended down
as a fold on all sides in carapace fashion so as to protect the softer
lateral and ventral surfaces. The lower margin of this fold bears a
fringe of very fine hairs, such as would efficiently prevent small
insects from crawling underneath. The segmentation characteristic
of lepidopterous larvz is shown only by the presence of spiracles;
but rather more than half way to the anal extremity is a deep
transverse groove, the only region at which, owing to the leathery
consistence of the cuticle, it is possible for flexion to take place.
The cuticle is indeed so hard that a larva placed on its back is
unable to bend itself sufficiently to turn over unaided. Toward the
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 477.

hinder end of the body and just inside the spiracular line are two
horny rounded eminences, one on each side of the mid-dorsal line.
From these eminences pointed tubercles are from time to time thrust
out, but no dorsal gland was detected. The tubercles appear to
represent those of other Lyczenide, in which, however, they are more
externally placed, being just to the outer side of and behind the
spiracles of the twelfth segment.

The head is small in proportion to the size of the larva, and there
is a definite neck of sufficient length to enable the head to be thrust
forward, or retracted in tortoise-like fashion under the shelter of
the carapace. The anus is protected in a similar manner.

The food of the larve are little beady coccids (Stictococcus
sjostedti) found in considerable numbers immobile and firmly fixed
to the young shoots of certain plants. These coccids yield a watery
secretion much in demand by ants; it is not sweet to the taste, but
has an aromatic flavor rather suggestive of turpentine.

The coccids are usually surrounded by a multitude of ants. The
ferocious “tree-drivers” (@cophylla) do not eat them, but seem,
like the other ants, to visit them for some food material. Mr. Lam-
born noted that the ants not only attended the coccids, but ran all
over the lyceenid larve. ‘The ants often roof over a number of the
coccids with a thin covering composed of particles of bark and
other vegetable débris so as to form a convex chamber which fits
down on all sides around the inclosed insects. The chambers are
about the size and shape of a half hazelnut, and are tenanted by
ants as well as coccids.

Mr. Lamborn is disposed to think that in some cases lycenids
find food where these bodies have been, for some stems frequented
by the butterflies look as if they had borne the coccids.

The first caterpillar found, brown in color and resting motionless
on the stem, looked so very like one of the ant-constructed chambers
that it had a narrow escape from injury, for Mr. Lamborn actually
attacked it with scissors under a mistaken impression as to what it
really was, his custom being invariably to explore these chambers.

Mr. Lamborn records that within a period of 24 hours one larva
consumed 12 out of 15 coccids at its disposal, and another 16 out of
28, a few basal portions still remaining attached to the stems sup-
plied both larvee. He found that the larve would eat these coccids
whatever the plant they happened to be attached to.

LyCHNA ARION

In a note published in 1899 Mr. A. B. Farn wrote that he had had
experience with the larve of Lycana arion for some three years,
rearing them up to a certain point from the eggs laid by females
478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

taken by himself. Although he had failed to get them to pupate,
he had had the larve nearly, if not quite, full grown.

The color of the larvee he had was more or less lilac, this color
becoming more brilliant as the larve increased in size until it
might almost be described as violet. At this period they spun to-
gether the seed heads of the thyme, but he never succeeded in find-
ing them alive in the spring following.

Mr. Farn wrote to Mr. F. W. Frohawk that the eggs laid by the
females under perfectly natural conditions are laid singly (he
found only one exception) and are inserted somewhat deeply among
the clusters of buds of thyme. He could not discover any eggs on
thyme in full bloom, and remarked it would seem that the buds
are chosen so that the hatching of the larve and the opening of
the buds should be contemporaneous.

In 1903 Mr. Frohawk wrote that from observations he had made
the preceding year he felt convinced that some connection existed
between the larve of Lycena arion and the common yellow ant
(Formica flava) by the preference shown by the butterfly in select-
ing the thyme growing on ant hills for oviposition.

From July 5 to 17, inclusive, he found Z. arion numerous. Dur-
ing this period he watched several females laying eggs and on
the last day saw four females laying their eggs on thyme blossoms
on the top of an ant nest.

The thyme grew in patches among the short turf, which was
composed of the usual small plants which clothe the surface of
the Cornish downs, and with a few furze bushes dotted about,
and on the ant hills. But the plants selected were those growing
in the open and some distance from the furze bushes, and there-
fore fully exposed to wind and rain.

Under every patch of thyme visited by the female butterflies
he found ants’ nests. He also saw other females lay eggs on the
thyme growing on ant hills, and also on the thyme upon the turf
walls where ants are likewise in abundance.

On July 29 he found two larve, which he had raised from eggs
deposited on potted plants by several captured females, rolling
about together under the thyme blossom. On close examination
he found that the smaller one had seized the larger with its jaws,
which were buried in its side, and was apparently sucking it.
Upon pulling them apart he placed the victim under the micro-
scope and found a deep hole in its side, with the surrounding
surface shrunken and liquid exuding from the wound. He re-
marks that this conclusively proves the cannibalistic habits of
these larvee, which he had always suspected, as on previous occa-
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 479

sions large numbers of larve had disappeared in a mysterious
manner.

He then placed about 50 larve on as many sprigs of thyme so
as to keep them separate and under very close observation. On
August 11, many of the larve having passed their third molt, when
they cease feeding on thyme, he started to investigate what rela-
tion there might be between the larvee and ants, thinking that in
all probability they might feed either on the larve or pup of
the latter.

He had previously found that after the third molt the larvee
persistently refuse to remain on thyme blossoms, or indeed on any
other part of the plant, and appear to have a tendency to hide in
the ground. Although thyme and various other plants were sup-
plied to them, they refused to feed, so, leaving them with a grow-
ing plant of thyme and keeping them under conditions as natural
as possible, trusting they would hibernate in that stage, he left them
undisturbed ; but subsequently nothing more was seen of them.

He at first selected one of the larve after the second molt to
experiment with, as he found that after the third molt they do not
attack each other. Their cannibalistic habits only exist during the
first three stages.

He supplied this larva with an ant’s cocoon with one end removed.
It at once began eating it. He then placed the two objects under
the low power of the microscope to watch carefully the proceedings,
which were interesting. He watched it feeding on the jellylike sub-
stance of the pupa, as well as the cocoon, which it ate in the same
manner as it would a leaf, by biting the edge.

So far this seemed satisfactory, as he thought he had found the
right food for the larve in their subsequent stages; but this proved
not to be the case.

Having found a dead ZL. arion larva, he placed it in a box with
some ants, which immediately seized hold of it, apparently intend-
ing to kill it.

He then put a living larva in another box with four ants (Yormica
flava), and expected them to treat it in the same way, but was sur-
prised to find them act quite the reverse. They all immediately ran
to it and, waving their antenn over and upon it, at the same time
closed ee jaws, and then apparently smelt and licked it, and
seemed particularly attracted to the hinder part of its back, about
the tenth segment. First one and then another of the ants would
run over aye larva, and then stop to lick that part of its back. He
then noticed that a tiny bead of moisture appeared, and gne of the
ants touched it with its mouth, which instantly caused the bead to
disappear. Ife afterwards placed both larva and ants under the
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

microscope, which at once revealed the cause of attraction, for
there on the tenth segment he found a small transversely elongated
gland on the dorsal surface.

He then examined with the microscope another larva in the same
stage while it was feeding, during which operation the gland is
kept throbbing. So he placed the ants close to it, and soon saw
them run over it. Directly a foot touched the gland, or the region
adjacent to the gland, it throbbed more violently and sweiled up.
It then exuded a globule of clear white liquid. At the same instant
an ant licked up the drop. In a few seconds an ant’s foot again
touched the gland, and another bead of liquid oozed out, which
was at once again licked up by an ant.

An interesting fact was that the larva did not heed the ants run-
ning over and around it while it kept feeding; but the gland is
apparently extremely sensitive to the touch of an ant’s foot.

He several times touched the glands of several different larve
with the point of a very fine sable-hair brush. This caused the
larvee at once to wince and to contract; but in no way could he
induce the exudation of the liquid. But as soon as an ant’s foot, or
the claws of the foot, touched it a bead would appear. to be at
once imbibed by the ants.

Although the larva was kept in a box with numerous ants, both
workers and winged females, together with their pups, not one
attempted to bite it; as soon as they touched it they slowly closed
their jaws and waved their antennz over and upon it.

The larvee appeared to be perfectly at home with the ants, neither
molesting the other. After the third molt Mr. Frohawk was un-
able to perceive any attempt at cannibalism among the caterpillars,
although this habit exists in all the earlier stages.

On July 12, 1905, when in company with Mr. A. L. Rayward,
Mr. Frohawk discovered a living pupa of Lycwna arion, and near by
a pupa case of a freshy emerged female which Mr. Rayward de-
tected at rest.

As described by Mr. Frohawk the pupa bears a general resemb-
lance to the pupa of Lycena egon, except for its much larger size,
measuring half an inch in length. In dorsal view across the middle
its greatest width is three-fourteenths of an inch. The head is ob-
tuse, the base of the wings is slightly angular and swollen, the wing
is shghtly concave, and the abdomen is swollen at the third and
fourth segments, becoming thence attenuated and rounded pos-
teriorly.

In side view the pupa measures three-sixteenths of an inch across
the middle. The head is rounded, the thorax convex and rising
into a slight dorsal ridge, the metathorax and first abdominal seg-
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 481

ment sunken, the abdomen swollen in the middle and curving to
the posterior segments, which are rounded. The anal segment is
appressed to the ventral surface. The cremastral hooks are absent.
The wing is ample, swollen, and rounded across the middle; it ex-
tends to the fifth abdominal segment.

The entire surface is minutely granulated and covered with very
fine reticulations of a deep amber color. ‘The spiracles are prom-
inent and blackish, the surface posteriorly adjoining them beset with
a number of shining raised beadlike processes, some bearing minute
amber-colored spines which have the apical half branched with ex-
tremely small bristles.

The color when first found was uniformly ochreous, with the eyes
dark leaden gray. It gradually turned darker on the head, thorax,
and abdomen. The wings remained ochreous, but showed leaden
gray hind margins. Then the median wing spots appeared, and
soon the whole pupa began to deepen more ‘uniformly until it as-
sumed a deep leaden gray all over, and remained unchanged for over
30 hours. A perfect male emerged at 8.30 a. m. on July 16.

It was on June 3, 1906, that Mr. Frohawk, in company with Mr.
A. L. Rayward, first found the larva of Lycwna arion in its last
stage. On arriving at the locality where they had previously
watched the females laying eggs, they set steadily and systematically
to work, closely examining every particle of growth and of the sur-
face of the ground. This occupied the whole of the first day and
half of the next; the intervening night was spent in making a care-
ful search by lamp light.

As this all proved fruitless, they then determined on searching all
the most likely looking ants’ nests. First one, then another was
carefully dug up and searched without any satisfactory results; but
knowing that the object of their investigations must be somewhere
in the immediate vicinity, they continued their task, when at length,
on shaking part of the crown of a nest over a cloth, 1 goodly sizea
plump cream-colored grublike larva fell out, which Mr. Frohawk
instantly identified as a full-grown arzon larva.

In the same small portion of the ant’s nest they found three
more. Of the four, three were of almost similar size, about nine-
sixteenths of an inch in length, and one was a good deal smaller,
only three-eighths of an inch long.

These four larvee were only just beneath the surface among the
roots of the little plants of grass growing with the thyme. The soil
surrounding them was loose and friable, having been worked up
by the ants.

In company with the caterpillars there were ants and their
larve and pupe.
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Although Mr. Frohawk had not yet been able to ascertain the
actual food or manner of feeding, he thought that there could be
but little doubt that the larve are tended by the ants (Laszus
flavus) in the same way that their own larve are fed from mouth
to mouth with the food the ants disgorge.

In 1915 Dr. T. A. Chapman published further observations on the
last stage of the larva of this butterfly. He noted that the majority
of European “blues ” hibernate as larve in their third stage, having
in all five stages. Others hibernate as full grown and full fed
larvee, others as pupe, and some as eggs. Each of these habits is
adopted by more than one species.

Lycena arion differs from all of these and agrees with no other
species in its method of passing the winter. Living on thyme,
chiefly the flowers, it reaches the fourth and last stage some time
in or about August, and then goes into hibernation. When it does
this it is so small that it is difficult to believe that it does not have
at least one more molt in the spring, though this is not the case.
The little caterpillar only one-eighth of an inch long grows to its
mature dimensions of well over half an inch and correspondingly
thick without a change of skin.

On May 14, 1915, on pulling up plants over a nest of M/yrmica
scabrinodis var. sabuleti and disturbing the soil at a point close to |
overhanging heather, etc., a larva of Z. avion was found. It seemed
io be amongst loose earth that the ants had worked over, and if not
actually in the ants’ nest was within less than an inch of ground
actually occupied by the ants. The larva was found near the sur-
face, but precisely where in relation to the ants was not ascer-
tained, the earth being broken up before the larva was seen. But
it was certainly not in any permanent tunnel or chamber of the
ants’ nest, but more probably amongst the looser surface material
brought up by the ants and not yet consolidated and amongst which,
in weakly constructed chambers, the ants disposed of their larvee
temporarily on fine warm days.

The length of the larva was 11 mm., and its thickness about 3 mm.
Its color was a pale earthy flesh color with no trace of green any-
where, and the impression it gave was that it must be a concealed
feeder.

Unfortunately in the rough process necessary in disturbing plants
and soil the larva suffered an injury, so that the hope of discover-
ing what it would eat was unavailing.

There were visible some dark contents of the posterior extremity
of the alimentary canal shining through the ventral surface; else-
where the larva was too opaque to show whether there was any-
thing of food material in its interior, The dark mass seen through
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 483

the lower surface was the posterior portion of the gut full of
a dark material. It measured 3 mm. in length and over 0.5 mm.
in thickness, and was rather hard and solid. Farther forward in
the gut there were also portions of contents, rather soft and easily
pressed flat on a slide.

The posterior portion of the dark mass was rather shorter and
more slender than the forward portion. It showed a quantity of
granular material in layers of darker and lighter appearance. The
forward portion seemed to consist of a mass of minute hairs of
fairly uniform size and structure. The less dense material found
farther forward in the gut showed a number of identical hairs, and
also some small triangular chitinous bodies very lke mandibles of
some insect.

On comparison Doctor Chapman found that the hairs in the
arion caterpillar agreed absolutely with the hairs of the fully grown
larve of the ant Myrmica scabrinodis, while the chitinous triangles
agreed exactly with the mandibles of the same larve. Nothing of a
vegetable nature was found amongst these contents, and it could not
be doubted that the caterpillar had eaten many ant larve, and
nothing else for a long time.

Doctor Chapman remarked that it seems highly probable that the
caterpillar of Lycane@ arion in its last stage behaves as do the larve
of many bees and wasps, various parasites, and other insects that
live on material that is practically all digestible and contains very
little effete matter; that is, it does not, until it has completed its
growth, evacuate any of the contents of the gut, but allows all the
undigested material and effete matter to accumulate in the rectum
during the whole period of growth, to be ejected when the period for
pupation approaches. Such a procedure is not known in the case of
any other butterfly.

The posterior and therefore earlier portion of the waste matter
gave no indication of what food it represents, though the later por-
tion represents many ant larve all apparently in their last stage.

Doctor Chapman raises the question whether the first portion
represents eggs or young larve of the ants that were more thor-
oughly digestible and so left no recognizable detritus, or whether the
earlier diet was a vegetable one.

At a meeting of the Entomological Society of London, held on
November 7, 1917, Capt. E. B. Purefoy exhibited a short series of
Lycena arion which he had bred from the egg. After the third
molt they had been carried into the nests of Myrmica levinodis.

At the same time Mr. Horace Donisthorpe corroborated an ob-
servation of Doctor Chapman’s that the ants, on being disturbed,
carry off the larve of lycenids, beetles, etc., before removing their
own young.
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

On November 20, 1918, Captain Purefoy exhibited a score of home-
bred Lycwna arion, together with their pupa cases. He pointed
out that the fully fed larvee seldom, if ever, attempted to crawl far
away from the ants in order to pupate. Larve which he had kept
both in the nests of Myrmica scabrinodis and of M. levinodis gen-
erally fed in chambers deep down in the nest where the small ant
Jarvee in their last stage are cared for by the workers.

When the arion larva was fully fed it generally remained where
it was among the brood, slowly changing color from a fine ochreous
hue to a dead gray white. Six or seven days might elapse before
the larval skin was cast. The ants were running over their guest all
the time, but never attacked it, even when the fresh pupa was at its
softest.

The cremastral hooks would finally lose their hold of the silk pad,
and the pupa would lie at the bottom of the little earth chamber.

When after 24 days or so the imago emerged it had to find its
way to the surface through the ant passages. This it never failed
to do, and the freshly emerged butterfly would be found during
the early morning drying its wings on the herbage growing on the
nest.

The egg of this species, as described by Mr. Frohawk, is one
forty-eighth of an inch in breadth and one-eightieth of an inch in
height. It is of a very flattened globular form, sunken in the center,
so much so that to the naked eye the operculum appears as a dark
central spot. The entire surface is finely and beautifully reticulated
with an irregular net work. The color is pale bluish white.

Some eggs received by Mr. Frohawk from Mr. A. B. Farn on
July 9, 1896, hatched on the following day.

The larva directly after its emergence is exceedingly small, meas-
uring only one thirty-second of an inch. It is rather stout in pro-
portion. The segmental divisions are deeply defined, and with a
longitudinal dorsal furrow. On the first segment there is a large
dorsal darkly colored disk, and a smaller one on the anal segment.
The color of the body is pale ochreous yellow, tinged with greenish.
On the dorsal surface are longitudinal rows of glassy white ser-
rated hairs, placed in two pairs on either side of each segment above
the spiracles. The hairs of the dorsal row all curve backwards.
The anterior hair on each segment is much the longest, and all have
pedestal-like bases of an olive color. The hairs of the subdorsal
pair are both short, the anterior curving forwards, the posterior
backwards. Below the spiracle, which is black, are three brownish
serrated hairs placed in a triangle, all of which project lateraily
and have dark bases; the central one is very long. Below these,
on the first lateral lobe of each segment, is a single simple white
hair, and two other similar ones are found on the base of each
clasper.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 485

The head is of a shining olive black. The whole surface of the
body is densely sprinkled with blackish points, giving it a rough
appearance, and adding to the appearance of the depth of the
segmental divisions. The legs and claspers are similar in color to
the body.

A larva in the second stage measuring one-twelfth of an inch in
length is thus described by Mr. Frohawk.

The first and last segments are flattened, projecting, and rounded,
overlapping the head, which is withdrawn while at rest, and the
anal claspers. The body is much arched, having a considerably
elevated medio-dorsal ridge. The sides are flattened and slope to
a lateral ridge; the under side is also flattened.

The ground color is a pearly white, thickly studded with very
minute blackish points, and scattered over the whole surface are a
number of bristles, varying in length, all having bulbous dark
shining brown bases. The longest are situated on the dorsal and lat-
eral regions. The spiracles are shining dark brown. The segments
are beautifully marked with purplish pink, forming longitudinal
stripes, the most conspicuous being the medio-dorsal and lateral
stripes. The three other stripes, two above and one below the
spiracles, are made up of oblique markings. The head and prolegs
are brown, and the claspers whitish.

Mr. Frohawk noticed that there is a remarkable similarity be-
tween the buds of thyme and the larve, both in their coloring and
in their pubescence, so much so that it requires very close examina-
tion to discover the little larve. They generally conceal them-
selves inside the blossom, making detection all the more difficult,
but usually a small hole is eaten through the calyx, when the larva
may sometimes be seen with only the anal segment protruding.

A larva in the third stage one-eighth of an inch long was similar
in coloring, pattern, and structure to the one just described, except
that it was brighter, the hairs a good deal longer, and the head
shining black.

This third stage larva molted for the third time on July 26.
Twenty-four hours after molting it still measured only one-eighth
of an inch when fully extended. The general coloring was now more
uniformly ochreous pink, and duller. The second and third seg-
ments were humped. The first segment was sloping to the front,
sunken in the middle, and rounded, overlapping the head, and bore
a large black oval patch in the center. The three posterior segments
were also compressed and sunken. Each segment was humped sub-
dorsally, forming a deep longitudinal medio-dorsal furrow. The
sides were concave, and the lateral ridge projected and overlapped
for the entire length, hiding from view the legs and claspers. There

76041—26——32
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAD ‘NSTITUTION, 1925

were four longitudinal rows of long curved hairs, one being sub-
dorsal and one lateral. Each row was composed of a single hair on
each segment from the fourth to the ninth, inclusive, the subdorsal
series ending on the last. The first three segments had each a set
of three subdorsal hairs, those on the first segment curving forward.
The lateral series were likewise formed of one on each segment, all
directed laterally and surrounding the extremities of the larva. The
hairs have the bases of remarkable formation, resembling glass-like
pedestals with fluted sides. The entire upper surface of the body
is densely studded with extremely minute pyriform glassy processes.
The under surface is just as densely clothed with very short stoutish
hairs. The head is ochreous, with dark brown markings in front.
The prolegs are dusky, and the claspers are unicolor on the under
surface.

As described by Mr. Frohawk the honey gland of the larva after
the third molt is of peculiar construction, being formed of flexible
tissue and surrounded by numerous glassy white pyriform processes
varying in size, some of which are extremely minute. Those border-
ing the edges of the gland are furnished with excessively small white
bristles, each process bearing four or five arranged in the form of a
fan with diverging points; all are directed toward the central aper-
ture, the whole forming a fringe surrounding the gland, and are
obviously for the purpose of holding the bead of liquid in place,
and probably also serve as a protection for this apparently sensitive
organ.

The fully grown larva is seven-twelfths of an inch in length. The
third molt is the last, after which every part, as determined from
a careful microscopical examination of all the structural details by
Mr. Frohawk, remains absolutely unchanged. This accounts for its
extremely small head, which is out of all proportion to the size of
the larva, but which was of proportionate size directly after the
third molt when the length was only one-eighth of an inch. The
small black dorsal disk on the first segment now appears as a mere
black speck. The head is set on a very flexible retractile neck which
can be readily protruded beyond the first segment when the larva is
in motion, but when resting the head is completely hidden and with-
drawn into the ventral surface of the segment.

In a dorsal view both anterior and posterior segments are rounded,
the body gradually increasing in width to the tenth segment. The
segmental divisions are deeply cut, each segment being laterally
convex.

In a side view the first anterior and the last posterior segments are
somewhat flattened dorsally and projecting laterally. The second-
ninth segments are humped dorsally. The medio-dorsal furrow
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 487

usual in lyceenid larve is only indicated on the posterior half of each
segment. ‘The sides are sloping and convoluted to the spiracles.
The lateral ridge is dilated, swollen, and prominent, but rounded,
and the ventral surface is full and of a bulbous character. The
rather small feet are well provided with strongly curved hooks.

All of the other structural details are as in the larva after the
third molt; but on examining the fully grown specimen Mr. Fro-
hawk found that all the long dorsal hairs had been broken or worn
off short, leaving only a series of basal stumps.

The color is a pale creamy ochreous with a pinkish lilac tinge along
the lateral ridge and surrounding both the first and last segments.

When first found the entire skin had a shining distended appear-
ance as if too tight for its obese proportions.

Doctor Chapman found that in a nearly full-grown larva the honey
gland, which is so conspicuous in the autumn larva, owing to its com-
paratively large size, remains of the same size and therefore looks
extremely small owing to the expansion of the rest of the larva. He
is inclined to regard it as still functional, the four circles seen at the
bottom of the hollow being very distinct. He says that possibly,
however, these would look just the same if the function were in abey-
ance, although they are certainly a feature of all functional honey
glands that he has examined.

This remarkable caterpiller passes over 10 months of its existence
in its last stage, succeeding the third molt.

The full-grown larva described by Mr. Frohawk pupated on the
surface of the ground free of web. At first the pupa is a clear, pale
apricot yellow, which very gradually deepens to a dark amber color,
excepting the wings, which remain light ochreous.

LycC#NA ARIONIDES

Dr. T. A. Chapman remarks that this species which, though dis-
tinct, is exceedingly close to L. arion, probably has the same larval
habits.

LycNA ALCON

On October 2, 1918, Dr. T. A. Chapman exhibited before the
Entomological Society of London a bred specimen of Lycena alcon,
probably the first specimen that had ever been bred, certainly the
first from larve taken in the autumn.

The larva of this species, which is green, has a well-developed
honey gland. The eggs are generally laid on the calyx, and many
flower heads have a large number of eggs on them, probably each
laid separately. The caterpillars lve amicably together, being
devoid of the fiercely cannibalistic habits characteristic of the larve
of L. arion.
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Doctor Chapman noted that the life history is interesting as being
parallel to, though differing from, that of Z. avion. The young larva
feeds in the autumn in the flowers and other portions of Gentiana
pneumonanthe, and probably of other gentians. So far it is exactly
parallel in growth to other blues, such as many of the English
plebeiids that pass the winter in the third instar. When it reaches
the third instar it leaves the plant, wanders off, and hitherto efforts
to carry it further have failed. At this point it agrees with ZL. arion
in habits, but itis not like Z. arion, which isin a remarkably modified
and concentrated (as regards skin armature) fourth instar, but is
in quite an ordinary third instar. In its plant life it has differed
also in that several, often five or six, larve live amicably together
in one flower, whereas LZ. arion is solitary, and if by accident two
larvee meet, as by a second egg having been laid on the same flower
head, or especially when incautiously associated in captivity, they are
inveterate cannibals.

The remaining history is that both Z. arion and ZL. alcon live in
the nests of ants—Doctor Chapman kept both species in those of
Myrmica scabrinodis—and pupate in the nest. The differences are
that Z. arion eats the ant brood, whereas LZ. alcon certainly sucks
their juices without eating them; and Doctor Chapman could not
prove that it ever actually ate them, though he thought it did so
when past the winter when its food would more often be ant pupe.

L. arion is in its fourth instar and is provided with a skin arma-
ture not unsuitable to it when fully grown. JZ. alcon has only a
third instar armature, and when full grown might be almost de-
scribed as without one for, like Z. arion, it does not molt after en-
tering the ants’ nest, but attains its full growth still in the third
instar. The skin is then so attentuated that the fat masses are very
ubvious, and its general aspect is like that of an internal feeder
rather than that of a butterfly. Doctor Chapman remarks that it is to
be noted as exceedingly remarkable that a butterfly larva should
attain its full growth after only two molts.

M. Oberthiir, who is familiar with localities where Z. alcon is
common, considered it highly probable that it had a life history
similar to that of Z. arion, and with the assistance of Mr. Harold
Powell, found that ants would carry off the larve of this butterfly,
and also that the larvee would lap up the juices of wounded ant
larve. He provided Doctor Chapman with the young larve used
for observation both in 1916 and in 1917, and his success in rearing
the insect was, he says, entirely due to M. Oberthiir’s initiative.

Mr. Powell saw the larve of ZL. alcon carried off by Zetramorum
cespitum and by Tapinoma erraticum. Acting on this hint Mr.
Donisthorpe provided himself with a nest of 7’etramorum, and now
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 489

has a caterpillar of Z. alcon thriving in it. At the same time Mr.
Chapman had larve in the nests of Myrmica scabrinodis and M.
hevinodis.

Doctor Chapman observed that when ants were placed in a new
nest they refused to accept a larva of Z. alcon, although they will-
ingly accepted that of Z. arion.

SPALGIS EPIUS

Mr. Lionel de Nicéville in 1890 published a note sent him by Mr. E.
Ernest Green from Pundul-oya, Ceylon, in which he said: “T have
several times reared an insect indistinguishable from Spalgis epius
from a carnivorous larva that associates with and feeds upon Dac-
tylopius adonidum (the ‘mealybug’ of planters). My larvee were
dull olive green above, with numerous minute dark bristles and a
lateral fringe of brown hairs, beneath pale green, slightly suffused
with pink on the anterior segments. It partially covers and con-
ceals itself with the mealy secretions from the Dactylopius. Pupa
various shades of brown, wing cases pale.” Mr. de Nicéville added
that the larva is furnished with long irregular divergent processes,
as in the larva of Rathinda, but here the tubercles appear to be ar-
ranged more regularly, while some are much shorter than others.

Mr. KE. H. Aitken in December, 1891, saw a female S. epzus flying
suspiciously about a bush and thought it might be laying its eggs.
This led him to examine the plant, and almost at once he found an
unmistakable lycenid pupa. Then he instituted a regular search,
but not a larva could he find, nor any trace of one. The leaves of
the plant were nowhere eaten, and it was too much infested with
“mealy-bugs” to afford fresh wholesome food to delicate insects.
He had almost given up the search when he noticed that some of
the bugs were enormously large. He brushed the white woolly
secretion off of these, and they were uncommonly like lycenid
larve. They were of the wood-louse form so common among the
larvee of that family, of a dark greenish brown color, with a few
hairs scattered over the back and a fringe of bristles running along
the side and around the front where the second segment conceals
the head. With this fringe he saw them shovel a quantity of the
white stuff onto their backs and clothe their nakedness after he had
denuded them.

Watching them with a lens, he saw that they were feeding among
the “mealy-bugs.” They would pass over the larger individuals and
bury their heads in the downy covering of a little one, and though he
could not say he actually saw that they devoured it, he was quite
satisfied that this was what they did. So he secured a number and
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

put them in a pill box with a supply of their prey, and in a few days
the prey had disappeared and the larvae had become pup. In a
fortnight, exactly twice the time required by the smaller Lycenide
generally, five specimens of Spalgis epius emerged.

Mr. Aitken was very much surprised at his discovery, for he did
not then know that any butterfly larvee were carnivorous, except
when they indulged in cannibalism and ate each other as Lycznide
often do.

When he found his specimens he was traveling in haste through
a very wild part of the country, so he put the pupe away without
examining them. Later he obtained two more. On examining them
with a lens what was his astonishment to find a face totally different
from that presented by the African species (S. /emolea) but even
more lifelike and expressive. Ears were wanting, but every other
feature was there. The abdominal portion of the pupa formed the
forehead, two gleaming black spots, exactly in the right place, made
a most malignant pair of eyes, the arched thorax was the nose, the
effect of which was heightened by its being almost black at the
muzzle, and the head, with its attachment to the thorax, formed the
chin and lips.

Mr. Aitken says that no description can convey any idea of the
way in which the contour, features, and expression are worked out,
and he is afraid that the figure on his plate will be regarded as
overdone. To this he can only reply that it is underdone.

In Ceylon Mr. E. Ernest Green on more than one occasion found
the caterpillars of this species inside the nests of a tree ant (C7ve-
mastogaster dohrni) feeding on the “mealy-bugs” (Dactylopius,
sp.) inclosed therein.

Spalgis epius is found in Burma and the Mergui Archipelago,
throughout India, and also in Ceylon. In the Kottawa Forest at
Galle, Ceylon, it is very common and easy to capture, frequenting
shady places and high jungle. Elsewhere, while it really can not be
called rare, it dees not seem to be common.

Besides the following from Africa there are about half a dozen
additional species of Spalgis occurring from Hainan southward
through the Malayan Islands to the Moluccas. Presumably all of
these are carnivorous in their younger stages.

|
SPALGIS LEMOLEA

On January 19, 1891, the Rev. A. C. Good wrote to Dr. W. J.
Holland from Kangwe, on the Ogové River, West Africa: “To-day
I stumbled upon the queerest object which I think I ever saw. On
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 491

the under side of the leaves of a frangipanni I saw a number of small
chrysalids which bore a most absurd resemblance to a human face.
I found a few of the larve still unchanged. Their color was dark
brownish. * * * The body was all covered over with a whitish
substance not a part of the body, and which I took to be the remains
of plant lice with which the underside of the leaves on which the
larvee were found abounded. I think that these caterpillars must
have fed upon these white plant lice, for I could not detect that they
had eaten the leaves. * * * The chrysalis is attached to the leaf
by the back of the head, and presents to view in a wonderful way
the face of a man or a chimpanzee. Especially do the eyes and the
well-marked brows overhanging them present a startling resemblance
to the human face. The natives notice it, and are surprised at the
resemblance as much as lam. Here is mimicry, but to what possible
purpose? Or has Dame Nature for once laid aside her usually prac-
tical character and decided to amuse herself? ”

Mr. W. A. Lamborn, writing at Oni Camp in southern Nigeria,
said in a note dated September 17, 1911, that he had now found an-
other kind of lycenid larva, perhaps Spalgis lemolea, consorting
with aphids or tiny coccids, on the under side of leaves. He saw
several of these butterflies near the tree in the clearing, but did not
make out “ why they come there in the face of a strong breeze which
is now blowing almost constantly.” On October 3 he wrote that all the
iarvee were found among coccids on a shrub in Oni clearing. Each
larva bore a covering of gray material, which looked to him as if it
were composed of cast skins of coccids, and he thought that they
must have eaten these or their products, for they did not eat leaves.
He was told that the plant on which they were is a species of Croton,
but he rather doubted it. The larve were all found on the under
side of leaves and always among the coccids.

Mr. Lamborn found the larve of this species feeding on two
species of coccids which were determined as Dactylopius virgatus
var. madagascariensis and D. longispinus. He had repeatedly ex-
amined the coccids without detecting the larvee, and it was only his
attempt to find a particularly large coccid for examination that led
him to turn one over and to discover it to be lepidopterous.

The larvee of this species did not strike him as being much larger.
than the coccids on which they feed, for they are rather flattened and
usually nestle up closely to the masses of coccids under what appears
to be a common covering of shed cuticles, etc. It is sometimes really
quite difficult to distinguish them. ‘The coccids are so closely packed
and so well covered that one can rarely see the form of a single in-
dividual. It is quite common to see tiny coccids wandering in the
material on the back of the larve.
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
FENISECA TARQUINIUS

Occurrence and habits—This curious little butterfly has a very
wide range, occurring from Nova Scotia, Quebec, and Ontario south-
ward to northern Florida and the Gulf coast of Louisiana and west-
ward to Texas and the Rocky Mountains. Prof. C. V. Riley said
that it is also found in Asia, but this is an error.

It is very local and consequently is seldom taken in general collect-
ing, but once its favorite haunts have been discovered it is easily
secured in quantity.

Although collecting butterflies in Newtonville, Mass., and in the
surrounding region, and about my summer home in Manchester,
Mass., from 1890 until 1900 I never found it. In 1910, however, I
caught one in my front yard, the first I ever saw alive. In 1923 I
made a special search for it and located nine thriving colonies in
Newton (1), Newton Center (1), Newtonville (4), Auburndale (1),
and Weston (2). All of these colonies were singularly similar.
They were all centered on the woolly plant louse of the alder
(Schizoneura tessellata), and in all cases the alders were growing
close to running water in small meadows with wooded hills about
them.

In 1924 I found a colony in Essex, Mass., on the main road from
Manchester just beyond the Manchester town line. This was a year
in which Vanessa cardui was exceedingly abundant, and consequently
was a poor year for other butterflies. It was exceptionally dry, and
the aphids did not thrive. The few aphid colonies found in Essex
and in Manchester did not seem to grow, and except for one were
quite neglected by the butterflies. Three of the four colonies in
Newtonville were revisited. Aphids were very few, and there were
no traces whatever of the butterflies or of their larve, though in
the year preceding about 100 examples of all stages had been taken
from them without apparently at all diminishing their numbers.

In 1925 the colony in Essex found in 1924 numbered about as
many caterpillars as in the year preceding, and caterpillars were
found in other aphid colonies about a mile away which the year be-
fore had yielded none. Caterpillars were also found near Gravel
Pond in Manchester. Of the three colonies in Newtonville one was
without caterpillars or butterflies, two butterflies were seen about
another, which showed evidences of the ravages of caterpillars
though none were found, and the third yielded a single caterpillar
and showed no traces of any others. All three of these localities have
now succumbed to building operations.

This shows how uncertain is the occurrence of this insect in any
one locality.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 493

Single butterflies far away from alders were seen in Newtonville,
in a field and in the front yard of my house; in Essex in a bog; and
in Manchester on the tennis courts of the Essex County Club.

Mr. 8. H. Scudder wrote that this butterfly is found only in the
neighborhood of water where alder grows, and is most frequently
seen where roads cross some little alder-lined stream or are carried
by an embankment over marshy ground fringed with alder bushes.
It is consequently a very local insect, and apparently rarely wanders
more than a few rods from its birthplace.

In the Connecticut Valley it is recorded as being found about
small running streams and in places protected from the wind, and
at Norway, Me., as “resting upon the leaves of trees and bushes
growing along the banks of a river.”

Abbot said that in Georgia it frequents swamps and oak woods,
and is most frequent in Big Ogechee swamp.

In West Virginia Mr. W. H. Edwards found the butterfly gener-
ally up the branches of the creeks in the valleys between lofty and
abrupt hills flying about the stones in the nearly dry beds. In one
day, on July 4, 1868, he caught no less than 24, and on this occasion
the butterflies persisted in visiting a large stone and were so tame
that he caught most of his specimens in a bottle. He adds that, so
far as he knows, there were no alders within a mile of the point
where the butterflies had been abundant. There were plenty of
beeches, and he remarked that the probability is that any trees or
shrubs on which there is a good supply of aphids would attract the
females.

In my experience this species flies with the greatest activity and
in the greatest numbers on hot and sunny days. It is most active
from about 10 o’clock until about 8, when it seems suddenly to dis-
appear. When at its best among the alders this is not at all an easy
butterfly to catch. The flight is rapid, nervous, and highly irregu-
lar, with frequent rests. As it dodges and skips about among the
alder branches it suggests a small and very active satyrid of the
Satyrodes canthus type. Its flight about the exterior of the alder
thickets has been compared to that of Orgyia antigua, and I have
sometimes confused it with the males of gypsy moths. If badly
frightened it flies off very rapidly in an irregular spiral, the axis of
which commonly rises at an angle of about 30°. From this it would
seem that its general habit is much like that of the species of Gerydus.
It is very fond of flying up and down paths through alder thickets
or through the near-by woods.

On three occasions I have met with this butterfly in open ground a
very considerable distance from any alders or other source of food.
The insects were flying slowly in a straight line a foot or so above the
grass tops and showed no inclination to rest. All three were easily
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

caught. Their flight was wholly different from the normal flight of
the species, and indeed from that of any other of our lyczenids, but
suggested that of the species of Spalgis. ‘Two explanations suggest
themselves: First, that the butterflies had been blown away and lost
and were trying to discover a food supply; and second, that they
represented a special variety characterized by this unusual type of
flight and adapted for disseminating the species. The strong con-
tinuous flight would seem to negative the first alternative. ‘The
probability is that these individuals were “ travelers,” corresponding
to similar individuals developed in many other species where, how-
ever, they commonly show departure from the normal in color as
well as in the type of flight.

Mr. Scudder quotes Mr. Emery as saying that this butterfly is never
to be seen about flowers, but may sometimes be seen perched upon
the upper surface of a leaf, or, more commonly, upon a branch
of alder among the woolly plant lice enjoying with the ants the
honey exuding from their bodies.

I have noticed that when resting this butterfly seems to prefer to
sit upon the upper side of horizontal leaves of willows or other trees
or bushes rather than upon the leaves of alder. When upon the alder
leaves or stems or upon the aphids it seems to be always nervous and
alert, ready to fly off at the slightest hint of danger. It always sits
upon the leaves head outward, with its tail turned toward the inner
portion of the tree or bush.

Broods.——Mr. Scudder wrote that the first brood of butterflies of
the year appears in New England about the beginning of the last
week in May, and continues upon the wing until after the middle of
June. The second brood appears early in July and becomes abund-
ant by the middle of the month. Search at Granby, Mass., on July
28 brought to light only caterpillars in the second stage; a fresh
specimen and full-grown larva were taken by him as far north as
Sudbury, Ontario, on July 13, showing that even there the second
brood appears at this early date. Fresh specimens may be found
during the whole of July, and rubbed ones during August. Mr.
Fletcher found a much-worn female ovipositing at Ottawa on
August 2, and they continue upon the wing until the third brood
appears, about the middle of August, from which time fresh speci-
mens continue to come out until the end of September.

In the central region of its distribution there are, according to Mr.
Scudder, probably four broods. Mr. Edwards recognized three in
West Virginia, one from April 17 to May 5, the second from June
14 to July 4 (on this latter date he took 24 in 1868 and saw large
numbers more), and a third the last of July. Mr. Scudder notes
that when compared with the history farther north and considering
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 495

the longer season in the south this must indicate a fourth brood not
observed by Mr. Edwards, who mentioned that he had received
caterpillars from Washington, D. C., as late as October 4. Mr.
Scudder surmised that it is probable that there is an added brood in
the south, for Abbot records a caterpillar in Georgia as changing to
a chrysalis on April 14, which indicates a parent on the wing in
March, at the opening of the spring, and so an entire brood in ad-
vance of the valleys of West Virginia.

As remarked by Mr. Scudder, the winter is probably passed in the
chrysalis, but it is not impossible, as conjectured by him, that it may
also winter as a butterfly, for battered specimens have been taken
on the wing very early in the year before the complete unfolding of
the leaves.

Oviposition—The female butterfly, as observed by Miss Morton,
flutters about and finally settles on the aphids, carefully selects a
place in the midst of them, and deposits an egg, always on the under-
side of the twig. Mr. Fletcher confirmed this observation, and
noticed that the female runs all over the clusters of aphids with a
twitching walk something like a wasp.

While the eggs are usually deposited in the mass of aphids, both
Miss Morton and Mr. Fletcher noticed that they are sometimes laid
on the bark near the aphids and occasionally on adjacent leaves.

I have watched two females placing eggs on the bark on the under
side of the twigs just below the aphid clusters, an inch or so away.
In these instances the exudation from the aphids was so very copious
that I imagine the butterfly was deterred from alighting upon them.
In both cases the females fluttered close to the patches for some
minutes before suddenly alighting just beneath them.

E'ggs.—The eggs are easily found by brushing off the aphids from
the branch. There may be a dozen or more in a single colony of
aphids, but in that event they are probably laid by several females.
Miss Morton saw two females lay three or four eggs, and from one to
four caterpillars of the same size is the usual complement for each
aphid colony on alder. But later in the summer where the butter-
flies are common there may be a dozen or so caterpillars of all sizes
from the very smallest to the fully grown in a large cluster.

As deseribed by Mr. Scudder the eggs, which are much flattened
and twice as broad as high, are faint green, almost colorless, and
glistening. During deposition they are covered with a thin
albuminous deposit which makes it difficult to get any proper view of
their texture. Their surface is smooth and glistening, though still
very faintly punctulate, broken up by very slight, slender, and equal
rounded elevations into polygonal cells the height of which is a little
ereater than the width. They are very different from the usual type
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

of eggs laid by the Lycenide, which are covered with an elaborate
and conspicuous lacework, or are much sculptured.

The first larval stage——The eggs hatch in three or four days. The
young caterpillars in the first stage are very different looking
creatures from the fully grown. They are of a slightly greenish
white with the head and legs more brownish, cylindrical, with
the segments slightly swollen, and the head as broad as the body,
obovoid, but produced at the mandibles. The hairs, which are as long
as three segments, are disposed, as remarked by Edwards, very much
as in some of the nymphalids, say Polygonia or Phyciodes.

As described by Edwards the young larva pushes its way under the
large aphids, or in the case of such as are found on the plum and
willow among them, and immediately begins to spin for itself a
loose web, not close enough to conceal it from view were the aphids
away, but sufficient to keep the aphids from walking over the body
and to protect it when the molt is approaching and the skin is sensi-
tive. ‘The web seems to be just about the length of the larval hairs
from the body. The aphids may be seen running over it, and often
get their legs fast in the meshes and are very apt to be devoured as a
consequence.

The second larval stage —The first stage lasts about two days, when
the little caterpillar molts. After this first molt the body is not so
cylindrical, being somewhat flattened on the back and broadest in the
middle. As described by Scudder the body is pale mouse brown,
the hairs and papille black. The hairs are nearly as long as the
width of the body at the extremities, shghtly curved, and tapering
with extreme regularity to the finest possible point. They are mostly
arranged in a single somewhat sinuate and not entirely regular
transverse series a little in front of the middle of each segment.
Edwards describes the hairs at this stage as numerous, disposed in
six rows, two subdorsal, one along the middle of each side, and one
along the base of each side. They stand not in tufts, but in groups
which spring from low tuberculous swellings. The hairs along the
lower edge of the sides point downward and fringe the body.

The length of the caterpillar has increased from 1.6 mm., the
length on hatching, to 5 mm. It still remains within the loose web
underneath the aphids, but its presence can now be detected by a
slight elevation in the otherwise uniform cylinder of aphids about
the alder stem.

In the first two stages the caterpillars eat the aphids from under-
neath, burying their heads completely in the aphid’s body. The long
hairs on their upper surface entangle the woolly secretions of the
aphids so that the little caterpillars appear as if covered with flour. ,
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 497

Miss Morton said that when these caterpillars molt they come out
bright and clean, but by the time they crawl their own length they are
again stuck over with wool, and this is the case until pupation.

The third larval stage—After the second molt, which takes place
about two days after the first, the body becomes higher and broader
in the middle, and the hairs become more numerous. The feet and
legs are not retractile. ‘The head is more covered by the first seg-
ment than it was before, but it is only slightly covered, and that only
along the forehead.

The fourth and last larval stage—About two days after the second
molt the third and last molt takes place. The body, as described
by Scudder, is smoky pallid above with slender dorsal and latero-
dorsal smoky brown stripes, the former more or less interrupted, and
both more or less tinged with olivaceous, especially in front, where
the thoracic segments are more or less clouded between the stripes
with olivaceous; more or less marked with pallid or whitish at the
incisures and the posterior edge of the segments along the stigmatal
and infrastigmatal lines. The hairs are mingled blackish and pallid,
giving the whole a fuzzy gray appearance. Along the sides each
segment has three or four more or less obscured blackish dotlike
spots, especially an anterior laterostigmatal spot, and the fuscous
spot in which the minute pallid spiracle is placed. Edwards says
that the color of the dorsal area is pale gray, the outer edges white,
and the side is white with a pale brown macular stripe running
through it, and above this is an oblique brown bar on each segment,
except at the extremities. In the middle of the back there is a macu-
lar brown stripe, and on the seventh-eleventh segments four brown
rounded spots, two in front and two behind. The subdorsal swell-
ings are red-orange, or Indian red, or pinkish. There is much
variation in individuals in all the markings, and Mr. Edwards sus-
pected that the species of aphis fed upon may cause variations, as
one larva raised by him upon plum aphids was at all stages whiter
than those on alder, and the darker markings pale.

These caterpillars are indeed very variable. They are usually
grayish, somewhat tinged with greenish in front, ranging from very
light to fairly dark. The reddish markings especially vary from
deep dull brown to brick red or pink. Sometimes there is no
brownish or reddish color at all, all the markings being gray. Oc-
casionally the entire caterpillar is of a uniform pale pink. This
variety is very rare on alder; but my son, Austin B. J. Clark, found
five on a patch of woolly aphids (Veoprociphilus attenuatus) on a
stem of the carrion flower (Smélaw herbacea), all of which were of
an immaculate pink. The pups and the adults from these were of
normal coloration. Frequently on alder the white is more or less
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tinged with pinkish, and the gray markings become more restricted
and fainter. At this stage the caterpillar is 11 mm. in length.

The mandibles of the fully grown caterpillars are curious in being
scarcely tapering, and in having the rounded apical margin armed
with four curving clawlike teeth.

Miss Morton found the larve after the second molt crawling
naked on the limb seeking for fresh supplies of food; she says that
then they again spin a web which they leave after the aphids are
consumed. She believed that they do not spin a web after the third
and last molt; at this stage they go about very quickly.

Much depends, I believe, upon the size and vigor of the aphid
colony. While the fully grown caterpillars are often seen resting
in the aphid colonies with the whole dorsal surface exposed, and
usually comparatively, sometimes entirely, free from wool so that
their handsome markings stand out conspicuously, they may be more
or less embedded in the aphids; and frequently, noticing large
humps on the surface of the aphid mass, I have dug out fully grown
larve from flimsy tunnels. Mr. Scudder noted also that some which
he obtained remained in the web until ready to change into the
chrysalis. Except for those just hatched and entering the aphid
mass I have seen none but almost or quite fully grown caterpillars
exposed, and I think that normally they do not leave their webs
until they are ready to pupate. Even though they may not make a
covered tunnel I believe the large caterpillars normally and usually
spin a path of silk upon the twig as they plough their way through
the aphid mass.

These larger caterpillars are very voracious, and a few of them
will soon clean out all the aphids in an average alder colony. Where
they are: common there are always many characteristic ragged white
or grayish patches on the twigs composed of the dead remains
of aphids entangled in sparsely woven silk, with ragged streamers
of silk and dried aphid bodies depending from it. In one locality
in Weston, Mass., I observed a number of alder bushes upon which
all the numerous aphid colonies had been quite exterminated by these
caterpillars.

Mr. Edwards noticed that whenever one of these caterpillars
was removed by the forceps a thread held it to the object on which
it was resting. He shook his largest caterpillar out of the box
until it let out a thread up to a length of 4 inches. Then he held
the box to see if the caterpillar would climb the thread, which it
did, in about 20 minutes. It twisted its body into a spiral and
whirled about so fast that he could not bring the lens to bear, but
he could see that the jaws and feet were active.

I have never seen fully grown caterpillars do this. When dis-
turbed they curl up and drop directly down, Small or medium
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 499

sized caterpillars, however, drop on a thread, and this is usual
until they are nearly of full size.

Miss Morton said that after the third molt the caterpillars go
about very quickly. They crawl steadily and fairly rapidly when
removed from the aphids; but in a vigorous aphid colony they
are extremely sluggish, and I have rarely seen them elsewhere.

I have never observed any tendency on the part of Feniseca
‘aterpillars to eat each other, even when scores of various sizes were
confined without food in the same small box. In spite of their
delicate skin the caterpillars are well protected by their long
and partially grouped hairs, especially by those along the lower
edges of the sides, which bend downward and prevent attacks
from underneath.

But while the caterpillars seem to pay no attention to each other,
my son, Hugh U. Clark, discovered that the smaller caterpillars
not yet fully fed eagerly devour the freshly formed pups. These
they attack from the under side, tearing a large ragged hole in
them and completely devouring all the soft parts.

Rapidity of growth of the caterpillars—Mr. Edwards noted that
the growth of these caterpillars is remarkable for its rapidity,
scarcely more than two days between molts, and there are but
three molts in all. There is no long interval preceding a molt
when the larva lies helpless, and this is particularly so at the third
molt when the larva is fully exposed to view. He watched several
most carefully when he anticipated the third molt, but was never
able to see it, or to know precisely when it occurred. He could see
that a molt must have taken place by the fresh and differently
colored skin of the body and the enlarged head.

Miss Morton at first experienced the same difficulty. She wrote
on August 30, 1886: “ Thursday morning the larve had devoured
every aphis in the box, and I remembered seeing some red aphids
on wild cherry near the house. These I put in until I could go
to the swamp a mile away. When I returned, three hours after,
three of the five larve had molted, after eating nearly the whole
of the 2 square inches of aphids, though there was no appearance
of a molt when I went away.” These three pupated Sunday morn-
ing, three days after the third molt.

The pupal stage—About three days after the third molt the
caterpillars pupate. Just where this takes place in a state of nature
has not been satisfactorily determined. Miss Morton never found
a chrysalis, although she looked for them whenever she was in
the swamps. Her captive larve generally sought a leaf, but she
thought it probable that the wild ones crawl down the stems and
pupate among sticks or grass,
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

From the frequent occurrence of bare oval patches in aphid
colonies inhabited by these caterpillars and the fact that when
fully grown they curl up and drop at the slightest touch, while if
aphids are abundant they are never found, in my experience at
least, except in aphid colonies, I feel sure that the normal habit of
the caterpillars on reaching full size is to drop to the ground and
to pupate on any convenient support.

I have found two pupal skins from which the butterflies had
emerged. One of these, in Newtonville, was about 4 feet up on
the main trunk of a large alder which had no aphids on its
branches; the trunk was about 3 inches in diameter. The head of
the pupa was directed downward. The other, from Essex very
near the Manchester line, was on the upper side of an alder leaf
about a foot from the ground and directly beneath a large colony
of aphids about 6 feet above it. The leaf was smeared with the
exudations from the aphids to which cast skins and “ wool” ad-
hered. The pupa was in the inner half of the leaf and was at-
tached to one of the veins near the midrib; its axis was parallel
to the vein and its head was directed outward toward the margin
of the leaf. In both these cases the larvee had evidently dropped
and thence crawled up to the supports on which they were found.

My experience with a dozen or so caterpillars that escaped in
the house was quite similar to that of Misses Soule and Eliot.
They pupated anywhere, one behind a picture 6 feet from the
floor; but the favorite place was on the mop board or on chair
or table legs from 2 to 6 inches from the floor.

As described by Mr. Scudder the chrysalis is pallid-green be-
neath, flecked with minute brown dots on the wings, legs, and
tongue, but not on the antennsw, and hardly at all on the abdomen,
excepting laterally. The head and prothorax are pallid, the former
flecked with blackish, and the latter with many brownish flecks
next to the posterior margin. The rest of the thorax is dark
greenish-brown above, irregularly blotched and flecked with cream-
yellow, most conspicuously at the summit and down the interior
base of the wings. The rest of the wings is pallid-green, minutely
flecked with brown. The abdomen is also dark greenish-brown,
the first two segments darker than the rest and deepening to black
laterally next to the wings, the whole irregularly flecked above
with cream-yellow, giving a minutely mottled appearance, and at
the sides of the globose portion and on the top of the expanding
tip predominating; particularly the lower half of the sides of the
fourth abdominal segment are almost wholly cream-yellow, and
those of the sixth and seventh heavily blotched with piceous. ‘There
is a lateral series of short oblique black bars in the middle of the
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 501

second to seventh abdominal segments, and the tubercles and the
median carina are all tipped with brownish-yellow. The surface
of the body is rather coarsely and distantly punctate, with scattered,
pellucid, clubbed hairs arising in large measure from the center of
the pits, and but little longer than their widths. The spiracles
are testaceous.

Mr. Scudder gives the following measurements: Length, 8.5 mm.;
width at the middle of the thorax, 3.65 mm.; at the widest part
of the abdomen, 4.75 mm.; of the tip of the abdomen, 2.5 mm.;
height of the thorax, 3.6 mm.; of the abdomen, 4.2 mm.; length
of hairs, 0.04 mm.

As was first noticed by Miss Morton, the chrysalis of this butterfly
shows a most curious resemblance to a monkey’s face (fig. 1).

lies. 1-5.—A pupa of the alder butterfly (Feniseca tarquinius).

Fig. 1, viewed from above with the head (liower) end slightly

raised; Fig. 2, viewed from above when lying flat; Fig. 3,

lower surface; Fig. 4, side view. Fig. 5, The alder butter-

y fly, natural size; the colors are black and bright brownish

gold. Drawn by the author from a specimen hatched in Wash-
ington, but raised to the pupa stage in Newtonville, Mass.

Duration of the pupal stage—tThe butterfly ordinarily emerges
in from 8 to 11 days after pupation, according to Mr. Scudder. Ed-
wards reared a caterpillar from the egg to the pupa in 10 days.
Allowing 38 days for the period between the laying of the egg and
its hatching, and 8 days from the formation of the pupa to the
emergence of the adult, this would give a total length of develop-
ment from the egg to the adult butterfly of 21 days, or 3 weeks, a
most extraordinarily short period.

My experience with this butterfly has led me to believe that while
the duration of life from the egg to the pupa is always brief as de-
scribed, the length of the pupal life is very variable.

On August 14, 1923, at Newtonville, Mass., about 50 caterpillars
pupated. On August 22, 12 adults emerged. A day or two after
the first 50 pupated all of the remainder pupated, about 50 more.

76041—26 33

502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

By the middle of September all but 53 had emerged. These 53 pup
were brought to Washington and from them butterflies continued
to emerge at irregular intervals all through the winter and spring,
sometimes two or three a day. The last to emerge did so some time
subsequent to July 7, on which date I left Washington. Thus from
the same lot of “na dating from the middle of August, butterflies
emerged continually up to the end of the first week in the following
July, for very nearly 11 months, the chrysalids having all been kept
in the same box in a heated house. Only one chrysalis died, and that
was less than half the normal size.

In the summer of 1924 the caterpillars were very scarce. Fifteen
secured in Essex, Mass., pupated on and about September 1. These
were brought to Washington about the middle of the month, and the
butterflies emerged at irregular intervals from December to April.
The last failed to spread its wings, the one preceding did not spread
its wings completely, and one has not as yet (May) appeared.

All of the butterflies which emerged in Washington differ from
those caught or raised in Massachusetts in having the black mark-
ings on the forewings more restricted, presumably through the pup
having been kept at a temperature above the normal for them.

Food of the caterpillars—The large white woolly aphis of the
alder (Schizoneura tessellata), which forms conspicuous snowy
colonies, seems to be the chief and favorite food of the caterpillars
of this little butterfly. But it has several times been found among
the colonies of another aphis (Pemphigus imbricatus) on the beech,
and in the leaf curls of a related species (P. fraxinifoliz) on the ash.
My older son found five in a colony of woolly aphids (MMeopro-
ciphilus attenuatus) on the carrion flower (Smilax herbacea) near a
heavily infested alder thicket.

The caterpillars and the pup have been found on various plants,
such as witch-hazel; but there is no certain evidence that normally
they live on these.

In captivity the caterpillars will eat other kinds of aphids. Miss
Morton found that they would eat the red aphids on wild cherry.
Mr. Edwards put some aphids which he found on weeping willow in
a tube with some young caterpillars. He watched for some time,
but there was no haste on the part of the caterpillars. He saw one
of them go to an aphid, nose at it, push it, and bite at it, lifting it
partly off the leaf (the aphid foe the larger of the two) and shak-
ing it as a dog would shake a rat. But ite victim escaped and re-
treated to the reverse side of the leaf and the larva rested. Next
morning not an aphid was to be found. He obtained another small
supply of willow aphids and presently saw a caterpillar bite one
near the head and eat into the body so that its own head was buried,
the aphid not resisting, not even removing its beak from the leaf.
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 503

After a moment the caterpillar let go and went its way. Not find-
ing more aphids on willow, he searched many trees and shrubs in
vain, but at last he found a young wild-plum somewhat infested
with them and thereafter had a moderate supply.

Relationships with ants——Miss Morton noted that there are four
species of ants guarding the aphids on the alders, and she found
fewest caterpillars among those guarded by a large kind with black
head and abdomen and red thorax which swarms all over them for
the sake of the exceedingly sweet liquid they exude. The ants do
not let the caterpillars alone, biting at them furiously whenever
they see them; but until nearly fully grown the larvee le concealed
under the aphids with a web covering them and can not be reached
without disturbing the aphids.

One morning she found what she thought was a full-grown larva.
Jt was resting in a fork of the bush close to a large colony of the
aphids; but while she was wondering how she should get it in her
box the way was suddenly made plain by a large ant rushing at it
and biting it furiously.

Once she came across a place where the large black and red ants
were in a state of great excitement, running and biting in every di-
rection, and had probably just discovered and routed a full-grown
larva, as a large brown spot with all the aphids cleared off showed
itself on the limb. I believe that this interpretation is not quite cor-
rect. It is more likely that the brown spot represented the previous
location of a fully grown larva which had finished feeding and
dropped to the ground to pupate, and that the ants were annoyed at
the discovery of the gap in the aphid colony.

Mr. Scudder stocked with aphids an alder he had planted for the
purpose in his garden, and on July 31 placed there a caterpillar in
the second stage. The aphids were all small, and in two large clus-
ters. The caterpillar moved about over the lower colony for an hour
or more, apparently looking for a good place to push under it, and
he observed its contact with the ants on 20 or 30 occasions. They
tickled it with their antenne and it remained at such times abso-
lutely quiet, generally moving off when they left in the opposite
direction to that in which it had been touched. They offered it no
further attack. Having to leave for an hour, he found on his return,
just at nightfall, that the caterpillar had quitted the lower colony
for the upper, 6 to 8 inches distant up the stem, and the same process
was repeating with the ants there. The next morning it was found
dead beside the colony, the outer edge of which it had eaten and
removed, its body bitten just in front of the middle on each side in
two or three places. The colony was composed of individuals too
young to burrow under, and being unable to conceal itself it had
fallen victim to the ants, then victoriously nursing their colony.
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. Edwards experimented amongst aphids on willow and plum,
all small and naked species, with three caterpillars in the second,
third, and fourth stages that he had received from Miss Morton.
He laid the smallest larva on a willow leaf directly by a small clus-
ter of aphids at which a few ants were engaged. The caterpillar
paid no heed to the aphids, but walked past and back and forth and
was on both sides of the leaf. The ants were somewhat inquisitive,
but did not trouble the caterpillar, nor were they disturbed by it.
This went on for about 15 minutes, when he removed the larva.

He put the next sized larva (second molt) on the same leaves,
and the ants were agitated and ran about gesticulating, but paid
more attention to their cows than to the larva. He put this larva
on a plum leaf by a large colony of aphids at which were a dozen
black ants. The ants sprang at it, bit at it everywhere, especially
trying to get a hold ‘under the edge of the body where the surface ©
is naked, or at the joints of the segments, or at the second segment
which, ghe bent over the head, is more exposed than any syihes
segment. One determined fellow seized on the second segment and
was hardly to be dislodged, was at last by a violent jerking of the
head, but wounded the larva so that blood flowed. When the attack
was at the joints the larva squirmed so as to tighten the joints just
there. These attacks were simultaneous and by at least six ants
at a time. The larva crawled away, and the assailants mostly
dropped off.

He then put the largest larva (third molt) amongst fhe same
excited ants, and they attacked it in the same manner, but seemed
unable to make an impression on it. The hairs protected the whole
upper side more sufficiently. The caterpillar crawled up and down
over the leaf, followed by some of the ants which attempted to seize
it at every vulnerable part. But no harm was done. He repeated
the experiment the next day and came to the conclusion that the
willow ants were mild tempered, and seemed unlikely to hurt a
Jarva; but that the black ones were fierce and would attack when-
ever they saw the enemy.

He suggested that perhaps the butterfly avoids the fiercer ants
and the aphids which they guard, and, therefore, i is not to be looked
for on certain plants.

Though exhibiting great hostility toward the caterpillars the ants
do not destroy the eggs. The butterflies do not pay any attention
to the ants, nor do they disturb them.

japan far as is known this butterfly has no parasites, and
nothing is known to feed upon it.

Once with a knife blade I was dislodging a fully grown cater-
pillar from a mass of aphids when it was struck by a large reduviid
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 505

bug (Arilus cristatus) which up to that time I had not noticed. It
dropped at once into my box apparently quite dead. Mr. Charles
O. Farquharson wrote that in Southern Nigeria he saw one of the
brown hairy moth-like caterpillars of the lichen-feeding lyceenid
Epitola honorius attacked and killed by a reduviid bug (Sphedano-
lestes, sp.).

Associates of the caterpillars——On the alders two others insects
are commonly found with the larve feeding on the aphids, and some-
times a third. Most common is the larva of a lace-winged fly
(Hormosoma, sp.), which is about the size of a full-grown aphid.
This creature has the habit of covering its back with aphid wool
and skins so that if it remains quiet it is scarcely to be distinguished
from them. It is, however, rather active, and as the aphids are quite
inert anything that resembles an aphid running about is to be re-
garded with suspicion. Examination with a glass will reveal the
two enormous mandibles characteristic of the lacewing larva. I
have never seen this insect attack a caterpillar.

Almost as common as the young lacewings are the grayish headless
and legless grubs of a syrphid fly (Syrphus, sp.). These le under
the aphids, often in a web made by the caterpillars, and are difficult
to find. According to Miss Morton these grubs stick the wool from
the aphids on their own backs and are often difficult to detect. When
fully grown they are frequently naked and are then quite conspic-
uous. Miss Morton relates that she watched a little caterpillar just
out of the egg spinning a web close to and almost under a large
syrphid grub, so she supposes that these grubs do not injure the
caterpillars. The little caterpillar crawled under the mouth of the
grub and over its back without the least notice being taken by it.
Miss Morton noticed that these syrphid grubs devour the aphids far
faster than do the caterpillars.

The ants take not the slightest notice of the young lacewings nor
of the syrphid grubs, even though the latter are much more destruc-
tive than the caterpillars against which they display so much
ferocity.

LACHNOCNEMA BIBULUS

The larva of this species is much like that of Megalopalpus. It
has no glandular apparatus. Mr. Lamborn found that although it is
protected by coarse hairs the ants certainly treat it with more
consideration than they show toward Megalopalpus, and in one
case he gained the impression that they were endeavoring to feed
it in spite of its habit of preying on their homopteron protégés.

The food of this species is the jassid Ossana bicolor, in every
case found on similar food plants.
505 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Mr. Lamborn saw the first larva he discovered passing its mouth
to and fro over tiny homopterous larve as if it might be obtaining
food, and he frequently saw the ants feed it with material obtained
from the insect larve. An ant and a caterpillar stand in front of
each other mouth to mouth. Some jerky movements take place,
the ant stroking the larva with its antenne after the manner of an
Weophylla ant which, having stored itself with water, proceeds to
dispense it to its fellows.

After writing these notes he speculated as to whether he might not
fave been mistaken in thinking that the ants fed the larve. He
suggested that perhaps the position is reversed, and it is the larva
that provides the ants with food, possibly buccal secretion or regurg-
itated material, since it has no dorsal gland.

When he first had the larva it did not feed, as far as he could see,
for 24 hours unless the ants gave it food, but it then ate a number
of the jassids.

He suggested that these carnivorous larvee when they find a
colony of food insects have to make as big a meal as they can so
as to be prepared against a possible long wait before they find
others.

Mr. Charles O. Farquharson found a few larve of this species,
with a very large number of membracids and a much larger num-
ber of ants, on a small leguminous shrub (Cassia alata) at the
base of a palm. The larve, so far as he could see, are without
honey glands or tubercles. They are rather bristly, with the head
protected by the usual carapace. The color is a curious blend of the
membracid color, with additions. In appearance they reminded him
very much of certain large syrphid larve which he had seen eating
aphids, and the latter resembled bird droppings more than any-
thing else. The young larve are rather more bristly than the older
ones, and less pronouncedly onisciform.

These larvee made no attempt to eat the membracids, and the rela-
tion between the lyczenid larve and the membracids was with the
larval stage of the latter, which he saw as clearly as possible.

The lyceenid larve are very sluggish in their movements, and all
the time he remained hardly moved an,inch. Whenever a membracid
larva came near it got busy, and so did the ants. They all got busy
in the same quarter, which was the upturned retroussé end of the
abdomen from which, at fairly rapid intervals, a short process was
thrust out on the tip of which a clear droplet was simultaneously
visible and instantaneously mopped up by the most enterprising of
the suitors, which was generally the lycwnid in virtue of its super-
ior size. Along with one or two ants it tickled with its anterior true
legs the business end of the membracid, but by lolling in a gross and
CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES—CLARK 507

unmannerly way right over the orifice it hardly gave the ants a
chance. When an ant did get there first it generally shared by re-
gurgitation the good thing with a fellow, and he was inclined to
think on one or two occasions with the less gracious lycxnid. But
they showed no ill feeling if the latter got there first.

Later he saw another larva feeding on the droplet, but not on the
membracids. But in an examination of the frass of others he found
undoubted insect remains.

He noted that there is a suggestion of a monkey face in the pupa
of this butterfly, but he thinks that, at a little distance off, the effect
is much more of the bird-dropping order, in a different way from
that of the larva, for the colors are those of brown paper and putty
nicely blended.

TRICLEMA LAMIAS

At Moor Plantation, about 4 miles west of Ibadan, Southern
Nigeria, Mr. Charles O. Farquharson came upon two lycenid larve
which were slowly devouring a happy family of coccids (Lecanium
[Sasseta| farquharsoni) on a plant of Imbricaria maxima. They
were dull green, onisciform, with just a hint of a white line along the
edge of the mantle and a slightly lighter mid-dorsal line. There was
a gland, but Mr. Farquharson could not see any sign of tubercles.

Mr. Lamborn had previously found that the larvee of the allied
7’. lucretilis are associated with coccid-tending ants, but did not
think that they were carnivorous; he saw the larve eating the dark
green cortex of a soft plant, but at some later stage they may, as
suggested by Professor Poulton, have attacked the ant-tended coccids
he found in tunnels in the same stems.

SUMMARY

The food habits of all the butterflies with carnivorous caterpillars
represent merely an extension of the intimate association with ants
which is eminently characteristic of the family to which they belong,
for they all feed either upon the young of ants, upon material
regurgitated by ants, or upon ant-tended insects.

In the Lycenine the great majority of the species are vegeta-
rians, but with marked carnivorous leanings as evidenced by the
common display of cannibalism. In the genus Lyca@na, L. arion in
the last larval stage turns upon the ants which up to that time have
protected it in return for the honey it supplied them, and devours
their young. The larve of Z. alcon in the last stage similarly live
on the juices of ant grubs. The ant-eating habit characteristic of the
last stages of the caterpillars of Lycwna arion and L. alcon passes
into the ant-eating habit of Ziphyra, which gives no honey in return.
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The larve of 7'riclema seem to be at first vegetarian, later feeding
on ant-tended coccids. From this it is but a step to the habits of
Spalgis, Feniseca, Gerydus, and Aslauga, the caterpillars of which
feed all their lives on ant-tended aphids or coccids, and to those of
Lachnocnema and Megalopalpus, which feed all their lives on ant-
tended jassids and membracids.

Besides the natural transition of lycxnids into carnivores feed-
ing on ants and on ant-tended insects, there is the equally natural
transition, seen in L'wiphyra, mto a form which induces ants to
feed it.

There is no doubt that when the life histories of our western and
southwestern and especially our tropical lycenids have been worked
out other examples of carnivorous forms will come to light.
THE POTATO OF ROMANCE AND OF REALITY!
By WILLIAM BE. SAarrorp

[ With 12 plates]

The early history of Solanum tuberosum is obscured by conflicting
stories, many of which must be relegated to the sphere of romance.
In the United States, this plant is commonly called the “ Irish po-
tato”; but it is only a potato by analogy and Irish by adoption.
The true or original potato is the 7pomoea batatas (pl. 2), which we
now call ‘“‘sweet potato,” a plant belonging to the Convolvulus or
morning-glory family; the “Irish potato” belongs to the Solanum
or nightshade family, of evil repute, many of whose members have
poisonous or narcotic properties. The name potato is scarcely more
applicable to it than “pig” to guinea pig or “ dog” to prairie dog,
yet this is the only name by which it is known to English-speaking
people. The French call it “pomme de terre,” or earth apple; the
Spanish “papas,” its original name; the Germans “ Erdapfel,”
“ Erdbirne,” “ Grundbirne,” or “ Kartoffel,” the last word a modifi-
cation of “ Tartuffel” or truffle.

THE POTATO OF ROMANCE

For the application of the name potato to Solanum tuberosum, as
well as for the erroneous statements regarding its origin, the respon-
sibility must be charged to John Gerard, who in 1597 figured and
described it under the title of “ Potatoes of Virginia—Battata Vir-
giniana sive Virginianorum & Pappus.” His illustrations (fig. 1)
and description show that his plant was, indeed, Solanum tuberosum,
but he follows his description with the statement that “it groweth
naturally in America, where it was discovered, as reporteth C. Clu-
sius; since which time I have received roots thereof from Virginia,
otherwise called Norembega, which growe and prosper in my gar-
den, as in their own native countrie.”? To this he adds “the In-

1 Reprinted by permission, slightly abridged, from The Journal of Heredity, Vol. XVI,
No. 4, April, 1925.

2The Herbail or General Historie of Plantes, gathered by John Gerarde of London,
Master of Chirurgerie. p. 781. 1597.

509
510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

dians call it ‘ Pappus,’” an assertion which would lead one to believe
that it was thus called by the Indians of Virginia. In reality the
name “papas” was its vernacular name not in Virginia, but in

Fic. 1.—The first published illustration of Solanum tuberosum. This appeared
in Gerard’s Herbal in 1597 under the misleading name Batala virginiana.
Nine years earlier, Clusius, to whom Gerard refers, had received a drawing
of this species from Philip de Sivry under the name Papas peruanum
Peru, which, as we shall see later, was its original habitat. As a
matter of fact, the potato did not reach Virginia for more than
120 years after the publication of Gerard’s Herbal. It must have
been Gerard’s statement which led Thomas Jefferson to declare
THE POTATO—-SAFFORD SL

that “round potatoes” (Solanum tuberosum) were found in Vir-
ginia when first visited by the English.’

It is surprising that Jefferson should have made this mistake;
for he may be called Virginia’s historian, and he was especially in-
terested in all things pertaining to food plants and their culture.
Still more surprising is the mistake of Schoolcraft, one of our most
reliable authorities on the history and customs of the American
Indians. In an official report published by the State of New York
in 1846 he makes the following statement: “'The potato was cer-
tainly indigenous [to America]. Sir Walter Raleigh in his efforts
at colonization had it brought from Virgina under the original
name of ‘Openawg.’ But none of the North American tribes are
known to have cultivated it. They dig it up like other indigenous
edible roots from the forest, but it has long been introduced inta
their villages and spread over the northern latitudes, far beyond
the present limit of Zea maize.” 4

The persistence of erroneous stories regarding the potato is shown
in the following quotation from a recent standard work of refer-
ence, under the heading potato, “commonly known as the ‘ Irish,
white, or round’ potato.” “It seems to have been introduced inta
Kurope as early as 1565. Sir Walter Raleigh in 1585 is said to
have brought back the potato from a new country. Recent investi-
gations, however, seem to give the credit of introducing the potato
into England to Sir Francis Drake in 1586. As Batatas Virginiana
it was figured and described by Gerard in 1597. It is probable
that these circumstances led erroneously to giving the credit of
introducing the potato to Raleigh instead of to Sir John Hawkins.”
And farther on in the same work, where it is assumed that the po-
tato is really identical with the openawk of Virginia, appears the
following: “The tubers of the wild S. tuberosum were small and
attracted little attention. Heriot, in his Report on Virginia, de-
scribes one plant ‘ with roots as large as a walnut and others much
larger. They grow in damp soil, many hanging together, as if
tied on ropes.’ The modern potato has been bred so that the hills
contain four to six tubers of uniform size, weighing perhaps 2
pounds.” ®

In a publication of more recent date appears the following: “ In
1565, Hawkins found potatoes at Santa Fé de Bogota and carried
some thence. * * * It is quite possible that Hawkins carried
the potato to North America in 1565, when he relieved the famine
among the French on the banks of the River May, now St. John’s,

8 Jefferson’s Notes on Virginia, in Writings of Thomas Jefferson, 8: 225. 15884.

4Schoolcraft, H. R. Census of the Iroquois. New York State Documents, No. 24.
p. 12. 1846.

6 Bailey’s Standard Cyclopedia of Horticulture, 5:2767, 2768. 1916.
512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Florida, and sailed northward towards Virginia, where, in 1584,
Heriot describes under the name Openawk what is supposed to be
the potato.” °

Now, it is quite certain that Sir John Hawkins never visited
Santa Fé de Bogoté. Had he done so he might indeed have en-
countered Solanum tuberosum. On referring to his original narra-
tive I find that in 1565, on his first voyage, his ship, the Jesus of
Lubeck, went for water and provisions to a port called Santa Fé
on the coast of what is now Venezuela. There he received from
Carib Indians—naked savages who slept in cotton hammocks and
were armed with poisoned arrows—* hennes, potatoes and pines.”
The “hennes” were an indigenous pheasant-like bird commonly
called “ curassow,” which the Indians of that region still domesti-
cate. The “pines” were pineapples “of the bignes of two fistes,”
the inside of which “eateth like an apple, but is more delicious
than any sweete apple sugared.” The “potatoes” were what we
now call sweet potatoes, “ the most delicate roots that may be eaten.”
These were, after manioc (the roots from which tapioca is derived),
the most important food staple of the Indians inhabiting the islands
and shores of the Caribbean Sea, a region where Solanum. tubero-
sum was quite unknown at the time of Hawkins’ visit. Sweet pota-
toes were encountered by Columbus and his companions imme-
diately after their arrival in the New World and were highly
esteemed, not only for their delicious taste but for the ease with
which they could be propagated and their immunity from the hurri-
canes which so frequently destroyed the plantations of upright
manioc. Columbus never saw a tuber of Solanum tuberosum, nor
was this plant encountered by Cortez in Mexico.

The identity of Sir John Hawkins’ potatoes was recognized by
Sir Joseph Banks, who called attention to the fact that the sweet
potato was introduced at a very early date into the Canary Islands
and Spain, whence it was imported in considerable quantities into
England long before the introduction of Solanum tuberosum."

The openawk of Virginia, with which the potato was also con-
fused, was described in 1588 by Thomas Heriot, the historian of
Sir Walter Raleigh’s second ill-fated colony on Roanoke Island,
who published the first accurate account in English of North
American Indians and their food-plants. It is quite certain that
he never carried a tuber of Solanum tuberosum from Virginia to

6 Sturteyant’s Edible Plants. Edited by U. P. Hedrick, in Report of the New York

Experiment Station, New York State Department of Agriculture, 27th Annual Report.
Vol. 2, part 2, p. 546. 1919.

7 Banks, Sir Joseph. ‘An attempt to ascertain the time when the potato (Solanum
tuberosum) was first introduced into the United Kingdom.’ Transactions Horticultural

Society of London, 1: 8-11. 1805.

»
THE POTATO—SAFFORD Se

England. His openawk was not a Solanum, but Glycine apios, a
tuber-bearing leguminous plant not even remotely related to the
Solanacez.

The tubers of Glycine apios were an important food staple of all
the Indian tribes of eastern North America from the Gulf of
Mexico to the St. Lawrence River. By the English colonies they
were called Indian potatoes, bog potatoes, or ground nuts. By the
settlers of New France they were called “chapelets,” or rosary
roots, from their bead-like arrangements on strings. The various
tribes of Indians had each its vernacular name for them. “ Open-
awk,” “openaug,” “penag,” or “penac,” were their Algonquin
names.

This name has come down to us in a variety of forms, according
to the orthography of early writers. Strachey, in his account of
the Jamestown Indians, called it “ouhpunnauk”; according to
Zeisberger, its Delaware name was “hobbenac”; Peter Kalm gives
its diminutive form “hopnis” (hopenis), which may be trans-
lated “those small roots.” At the time of his visit the Swedish
colonists still called it by its Indian name. In his description of
the plant he says: “The roots resemble potatoes-and were boiled
by the Indians, who eat them instead of bread. Some of the
Swedes at that time likewise ate this root for want of bread.
Some of the English still eat them instead of potatoes. Mr. Bar-
tram told me that the Indians, who live farther in the country, not
only eat these roots, which are equal in goodness to potatoes, but
likewise gather the peas which le in the pods of the plant and
prepare them like common peas.” ®

In early accounts of the settlement of New England these pota-
toes, called ground nuts, were the chief reliance of the colonists in
times of scarcity. In the personal narrative of Mrs. Mary Row-
fandson, the wife of a clergyman, taken captive by the Indians
during King Philip’s War, she refers frequently to ground nuts,
which she characterizes as the principal wild food staple of the
Indians.° They were eaten either boiled, roasted, made into cakes,
or added to broth of meal made of the bark of a tree.'®

The Abbé Provancher ' gives the Quebec name of the ground nut
as penac, without the prefix. The early missionaries of New France,

8 ixalm, Peter. Travels in North America. London. 1772. See Pinkerton’s Voyages,
13:533. 1812.

9“ Their chief and commonest food was ground nuts; they eat also nuts and acorns,
artichokes, lily roots, ground beans [falcata comosa, now usually called hog peanuts],
and several other weeds and rocts that I know not.’’—Narrative of the captivity of Mrs.
Mary Rowlandson, wife of the Rev. Joseph Rowlandson, who was taken prisoner when
Lancaster (Mass.) was destroyed in the year 1676; written by herself. In Indian
Captivities, by Samuel G. Drake, p. 54. 1851.

2c O MCI, pe oS:

1 Provancher, Abbé L. Flore Canadienne, 154. 1862.

514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

like the settlers of New England, were obliged to resort to the roots
when provisions were scarce. It is related that in the winter of 1613
Pére Biard, with two companions, went in search of them in the
woods near Port Royal. In the narrative it is stated that the roots
were quite abundant in some localities, yet scarcely a patch could be
found where the savages had not already been digging them, so that
most of those they got were small, ‘‘and it was necessary to work
pretty hard to gather enough for a day’s living.”

Glycine apios of Linneus, or Apios tuberosa, as it was called by
Moench, is a twining, beanlike plant with alternate pinnately com-
pound leaves composed of five to seven leaflets and dense racemes of
small purplish brown papilionaceous flowers having a broad reflexed
standard and an incurved keel. The ped is a linear, slightly curved,
many-seeded legume. The tubers, aptly described by Heriot in 1588,
“are a kind of roots of round forme, some of the bignes of walnuts,
some far greater, which are found in moist and marish grounds grow-
ing many together one by another in ropes, or as thogh they were
fastened with a string. Being boiled or sodden they are very good
meate.” 18

In the accompanying illustrations, Plate 3 is the photograph of
two flowering branches twining about a grapevine (natural size).
It was collected in a “ marish ” thicket in Virginia, July 31, 1923, by
Mr. O. M. Freeman, of the Bureau of Plant Industry. Plate 4 is
a clump of rootstocks from a single plant, with the tuberous swell-
ings “ growing one by another in ropes, or as though they were fas-
tened together with a string.” It was collected in Takoma Park,
near Washington, D. C., November 13, 1915, by Mr. J. B. Norton.

The confusion between the openauk of Virginia and the papas, or
Solanum tuberosum of Peru can be traced to Clusius, who did not
suggest that they were identical, but, in a description of the potato,
published in his History of Rare Plants, after calling attention to
the tubers called “ papas,” observed by Pedro de Cieza de Leon at
Quito, he adds that those roots which the Virginians called ‘ Open-
auk” were apparently not very unlike them."

Clusius was referred to by Gerard as though he were responsible
for identifying the Peruvian papas with the Virginian openawk. So

14 Biard, Rev. Pierre. Relation de la Nouvelle France, p. 2138. 1616.

13 See “A briefe and true report of the new found land of Virginia; of the commodities
there found and to be raysed, as well merchantable, as others for victuall, buildiag and
other necessarie uses for those that are and shall be planters there; and of the nature
and manners of the naturall inhabitants. Discovered by the English Colony there seated
by Sir Richard Grenville Knight in the year 1585 . . . at the special charge and
direction of the Honorable Sir Walter Raleigh Knight, ete. . . . Directed to the
Adyenturers, Favourers, and Welwillers of the action, for the inhabiting and planting
there. By Thomas Heriot, servant of the aboye-named Sir Walter, a member of the
Colony, and there employed in discovering. Imprinted in London, 1588.”

““ Quibus non valde absimiles videntur eae radices, quas Virginienses Openawk noml-
nant.”” Caroli Clusii, Plantarum Historia liber quartus, p. LXXX. 1601.
THE POTATO—SAFFORD Bib

proud was Gerard of possessing this plant that he caused a portrait
of himself to be engraved with a flowering branch of it in his hand.
This portrait (pl. 1), bearing the date of 1598, was inserted at the
end of the preface to his celebrated work.

Gerard’s misleading statement regarding the source of his potatoes
has been discussed by several writers interested in the origin of cul-
tivated plants. It has been suggested that his illustration of Sola-
num tuberosum may have been prepared on the Continent, like many
of the other engravings in the Herbal,!® and it has even been inti-
mated that he concealed the real origin of his tubers in order to
“mystify the readers of his Herbal.” 1° Whatever may have been
his motive, the effect of his account of Solanum tuberosum, described
and figured under the name “Battata virginiana,” or Virginia pota-
toes, was to fasten upon a Peruvian plant an English name already
belonging to a very distinct species and to mislead posterity into the
belief that S. tuberosum had been brought to England from Vir-
ginia. The persistence of this error has already been noted. One
of the writers above referred to, assuming Heriot’s openawk to be
the potato, quotes his statement that its tubers were found in “ moist
and marish grounds,” notwithstanding the fact that S. tuberosum
will not grow in moist situations, nor do its tubers resemble those of
Glycine apios, which “ grow side by side, like beads on a string.”
Indeed there is no species of tuber-bearing Solanum indigenous to
eastern North America; yet the woods are still full of Heriot’s
openawk.

Among the earliest legends relating to the potato is that recorded
in the minutes of the Royal Society of December 13, 1693, in which
it is set down that Sir Rebert Southwell, the president of the society,
claimed that potatoes were brought into Ireland by his grandfather,
who first had them from Sir Walter Raleigh. “This evidence,”
says Sir Joseph Banks, who seems to have accepted the statement
as true, “ proves not unsatisfactorily that the potato was first brought
to England either in the year 1586 or very soon after, and sent from
thence to Ireland without delay by Sir Robert Southwell’s ancestor,
where it was cherished and cultivated for food before the good
people of England knew its value; for Gerard, who had planted it
in his garden in 1597, recommends the roots to be eaten as a delicate
dish, not as a common food;” and to this Sir Joseph adds “ the name
of the root in South America is papas and in Virginia it was called
openawk.”

The Raleigh legend can be traced to Doctor Wright of Edinburgh;
it belongs in the same category with the story of George Washing-

15 See W. S. Mitchell, in the Gardeners’ Chronicle, N. 8., 25

c >: 533, May 1, 1886.
18 See B, D, Jackson, in the Gardeners’ Chronicle, Third Series, 27

7:161, Mar. 10, 1900.
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ton and the cherry tree. In the appendix to the report of the com-
mittee of the board of agriculture concerning the culture and use
of potatoes is the following communication dated March 14, 1795:
“Tn 1584 Sir Walter Raleigh, so celebrated for his worth, his valor,
and his misfortunes, discovered that part of America called Norem-
bega and by him named Virginia. Whether the admiral was ac-
quainted with the potato on his first voyage or whether it was sent to
him by Sir Thomas Grenville or Mr. Lane, the first governor of Vir-
ginia, is uncertain. It is probable that he was possessed of the root
about the year 1586. He is said to have given it to his gardener, in
Ireland, as a fine fruit from America, and which he desired him to
plant in his kitchen garden in the spring.” ‘Then follows an alleged
conversation between Sir Walter and his gardener, which was later
attributed to Sir Francis Drake and his gardener, to be quoted
below.

This transfer of the honor of introducing the potato from Raleigh
to Drake was the result of investigators, who found that Sir Walter
had not discovered Norembega, had never indeed been in Virginia,
and that his unfortunate colony on Roanoke Island had been brought
home by Sir Francis Drake. They did not, however, establish the
fact that Sir Francis ever had a garden in Ireland or a gardener
in any country. There is not a particle of evidence that Sir Walter
ever saw a potato in America, and the only opportunity which Sir
Francis Drake had to see one was in November, 1578, when after
passing through the Straits of Magellan he turned northward and
received some potatoes from the natives of Mocha, an island in
38° 30’ south latitude on the coast of Chile. From this place he
continued northward, looting the coast towns of Chile and Peru,
and then “sailing along the backside of America to 43° of northerly
latitude,” after which he returned to England across the Pacific and
Indian Oceans, rounding the Cape of Good Hope, “the fairest cape
we saw in the whole circumference of the earth.”

Completing his “renowned voyage, the second circumnavigation
of the earth,” in November, 1580, he was honored by a visit from his
sovereign, Queen Elizabeth, who dined with him on board his ship,
the Pelican, but there is no record that potatoes appeared on the bill
of fare. Indeed, it was not until eight years afterwards that he is
alleged to have introduced the potato.

Following are the two legends, the second of which I have trans-
lated from the work of a German clergyman, Rey. Dr. Carl Wil-
helm Ernst Putsche, published in 1819:

THE RALEIGH LEGEND

Solanum tuberosum, the common potato of our fields and gardens, was first
introduced by Sir Walter Raleigh, who brought the roots from Quito and
caused them to be planted in his own garden in Youghal, in Ireland. On the
THE POTATO—SAFFORD 517

plants arriving at maturity Sir Walter’s old gardener, availing himself of the
privileges of his situation, gathered some of the fruit, or ‘potato apples,” as
they are now called, and tasted them. Those of cur readers who have eaten
of this particularly unpalatable and unwholesome production will feel no
wonder that the ire of the old man should have been raised. Breaking in
unceremoniously on his master’s studies he exclaimed: “If this is your fine
foreign fruit, I would not give it garden room, not I.” ‘“ Well,” said Sir
Walter,” “if it is as bad as you say, dig it up at once; but if you find any
roots worth looking at bring them to me.” It is, perhaps, needless to say that
the roots proved very well worth examining.

THE DRAKE LEGEND

The famous English admiral, Francis Drake, deserves the credit for the
introduction of the potato into Europe. On his return from Virginia in 1586
he brought thence the potato with him. * * * Wishing to domesticate it
in England, he not only gave some of the tubers to John Gerard but also
handed a part of them to his own gardener, telling him to plant the precious
fruit in his garden. * * * When the seed apples ripened the gardener tasted
them and threw them away in disgust. Bringing a few of these apples to the
admiral, he asked sarcastically, “Is this, then, the famous fruit from Amer-
ica?” The admiral replied with feigned gravity, “ Very well, if you believe the
plant to be worthless pull it up, roots and all, before it spoils the garden.”
The gardener did as he was bid; but to his surprise under each plant he
found a considerable number of tubers of the same form as those he had
laid in the earth the previous spring.

That the Raleigh legend was generally accepted as true is shown
by Rev. Francis Mahoney in his celebrated Reliques of Father
Prout, the frontispiece of which represents the first planting of the
potato in Ireland with Sir Walter, pipe in mouth, as the central
figure. Under the heading of “Father Prout’s Carousal,” the
attention of Sir Walter Scott, who is represented as a guest, is called
to the potato. In handing it to him Knapp, the mayor of Cork,
makes the following speech:

Sir Walter, as it has been my distinguished lot—a circumstance that con-
fers everlasting glory on my mayoralty—to have had the honor of presenting
you yesterday with the freedom of the corporation of Cork, allow me to pre-
sent you with our next best thing, a potato.

Sir Walter Scott:

I have received with pride the municipal franchise and I now accept with
equal gratitude the more substantial gift handed me in this capital esculent
of your happy country.

Father Prout:

Our round towers, Sir Walter, come from the east, as will one day be
proved; but our potatoes come from the west; Persia sent us one, and Virginia
the other. We are a glorious people. Two hemispheres minister to our his-
toric recollections; and if we look back on our annals, we get drunk with
ory

76041—26

34

4
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Sir Walter Scott:

I intend writing a somewhat in which Sir Walter Raleigh shall be a dis-
tinguished and prominent character; and I promise you the potato shall not
be forgotten. The discovery of that root is alone sufficient to immortalize the
hero who lost his head so unjustly on Tower Hill.

Father Prout may be excused from accepting this legend as gos-
pel; for he was essentially a man of letters; but we find it to have
been accepted also by a professional horticulturist in a monograph
on the potato, a copy of which was kindly sent me by the distin-
guished authority on potato diseases, Dr. Otto Appel, Direktor der
Biologischen Reichsanstalt fiir Land und Forst-Wirthschaft at Ber-
lin-Dahlem. “ Most assuredly,” says the author, “do I think that
the descendants of Raleigh might be proud of a sprig of potato foli-
age on their coat armor, as those of Appel de Kapoesang are of its
tubers, with which the Austrian heralds have charged their
shields,” 17

Sir Walter’s fame has never been perpetuated in the manner sug-
gested above. Worse than this, the credit for its introduction was
transferred to Sir. Francis Drake and a monument to him was
actually erected and still stands in the city of Offenburg, Baden, a
photograph of which, received through the kindness of Doctor
Appel, is herewith reproduced (pl. 5).

The persistence of potato legends among literary people of ro-
mantic temperament is not surprising. ‘They would naturally resent
the iconoclastic destruction of a good story; but it is remarkable that
in very recent works dealing with agricultural history these tales
should be taken seriously. I have already referred to the account
of the potato published in a modern cyclopedia of Horticulture.
Following is a quotation from a more recent work on the history
of American agriculture under the heading “ How potatoes were
brought to England:”

Sir Francis Drake in 1584-86 conducted a piratical expedition to the West
Indies. He captured several.towns and cities and held each until its release
was purchased by the inhabitants and also seized and plundered. several
Spanish ships. For some reason, either fearing capture by the Spaniards,
if he returned to Europe by the usual route, or because of sickness among
his men as think some authorities, he cruised up the Atlantic coast to return
by a more northern route. He found the second Raleigh colony on Roanoke
Island in a destitute condition and took the survivors back to England with
him. Drake and Raleigh were old friends. Raleigh was interested in agri-
culture and had then recently acquired a large estate near Cork, in Ireland.
It is a natural supposition that Drake had obtained the potatoes from the

17 A footnote in this little volume calls attention to the fact that Appel de Kapoesang
was the first successful cultivator of the potato in Austria. See Johnson, George W.,
The potato: Its culture, uses, and history, p. 3. London, 1847.
THE POTATO—SAIFFORD 519

Spaniards in the West Indies, where they grow fairly well in the mountainous
sections “ and gave them to Raleigh and that Raleigh gave them a trial on his
Ireland farms as has been so commonly stated.

Notwithstanding the author’s theory that Drake had obtained
Trish potatoes from the West Indies, he once more confuses them
with the Virginian openawk, included by Heriot in his list of foods
of Roanoke Island, declaring that if any man is to be given credit
for the introduction of Irish potatoes into European agriculture,
the honor should go to Heriot rather than to Drake or Raleigh.

THE POTATO OF REALITY

Writers on the origin of cultivated plants who for their informa-
tion depend upon the accounts of early travelers, missionaries, and
colonists are apt to be mistaken in their identification of species.
Many of these accounts, written by persons ignorant of botanical
relationships or the essential features by which genera and species
may be distinguished, give little indication of the true nature of the
plants they describe. Thus, as I have already shown, Heriot’s ac-
count of the openauk, of which he described only the tubers and the
habitat, caused it to be confused for more than three centuries with
the potato. From the account of the botanist Kalm, who speaks of
its bean-like pods, we know at once that the plant belongs to the
Leguminose. Even botanists have disputed for years the origin of
several well-known plants, including beans, peanuts, and squashes,
owing to the resemblance of certain species of the Old World to those
of America.

TESTIMONY FROM PREHISTORIC TOMBS

Fortunately, for a knowledge of the economic plants of western
South America we do not have to turn to literature. Along the
arid desert which forms the Pacific coast of Peru and northern
Chile there is a succession of cemeteries in which mummies are
found accompanied not only by desiccated plants and plant prod-
ucts, but also, in many cases, by funeral vases of terra cotta, some
of which represent food staples and fruits of the ancient inhabi-
tants. Owing to the absence of rain in this region the soil remains
impregnated with sodium nitrate which has acted as a preservative
of organic material, so that even in ancient refuse heaps on the
surface as well as in the tombs, both vegetable and animal sub-
stances have been preserved in a remarkably perfect condition.

Jt has been established without any doubt that Solanum tuberosum did not grow in
the West Indies until the early part of the eighteenth century, when it was cultivated
in the mountains of Jamaica from tubers imported from Ireland and Lancashire under
the name of Irish potatoes.

Carrier, Lyman. The Beginnings of Agriculture in America, pp. 81 and 84. 1923.
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Among the plant products and representations of fruits and vege-
tables dug up by the author in Peru, the most common were maize
and maize gods, beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) both round and kidney-
shaped, lima beans (Phaseolus lunatus) shaped somewhat like the
Old World broad bean or faba, peanuts (Arachis hypogaea), several
varieties of squashes (Cucurbita pepo), round and crook-necked,
smooth and warty, hard-shelled gourds (Cucurbita lagenaria) used
as containers, and—most interesting of all—So/anum tuberosum, the
papas of the Quichuas, either dried or represented in terra cotta,
sometimes as facsimiles of the original tubers, but more often conven-
tionalized in black or red pottery.*? Dried potatoes were found by
the author in graves at Arica on the coast of northern Chile in 1887,
together with arrow points and llama-drivers’ slings from the elevated
plateau about Lake Titicaca. Terra cotta huacas, or funeral vases,
representing potatoes were most abundant in graves near Chimbote
and Chepen, northern Peru. Inthe accompanying illustrations, Plate
6, Figure 2 shows a collection of food products from pre-Columbian
graves in the New York Museum of Natural History; Plate 7, Fig-
ure 1 is a funeral vase from Chimbote representing two potatoes
in natural colors; and Plate 7, Figures 2 and 3, show vases of
black ware from the same locality in the form of conventionalized
potatoes. Solanum tuberosum can not be cultivated successfully
at low elevations in the tropics, so that the potatoes, which were
evidently an important food staple of the early inhabitants of the
Chimbote region, must have been brought down from the nearby
mountains. These dried potatoes and representations of potatoes
were certainly interred with the dead in pre-Columbian times.
They are the most ancient illustrations of potato culture in exist-
ence.
TRUE HISTORY OF THE POTATO .

The first published account of Solanwm tuberosum is that of
Pedro de Cieza de Leon, who, in 1538, encountered it in the upper
Cauca valley between Popayan and Pasto, in what is now Colombia,
and afterward at Quito, now the capital city of Ecuador. At that
time he passed through villages so high above sea level that maize
would not grow in their vicinity, where the principal food crops
mentioned by him were papas and quinoa (the minute seeds of
Chenopodium quinoa), both of which are still the most important
foods of the mountains and elevated plateau of western South
America.

In his Chronica del Peru, a journal written from night to night
while his comrades were sleeping, Cieza de Leon describes the papas

2° See Safford, W. BE. Food plants and textiles of ancient America, in Proceedings of
the 19th International Congress of Americanists, pp. 12-30, 1917.
THE POTATO—SAFFORD 521

as “a kind of ground nut, which when boiled becomes as soft as a
cooked chestnut, but which has no thicker skin than a truffle.” After-
wards, in writing of the elevated Collao region, he speaks of it in
greater detail. The inhabitants of that part of the world live in
villages surrounded by cultivated fields: ‘“‘ Their principal sustenance
is papas, which, as I have already stated in this history, are like
turmas de tierra. These they dry in the sun and keep from one
harvest to the other. And they call this papa, after it is dried,
‘chuno,’ and among them it is esteemed and held precious; for they
have no ditches like many others in this kingdom to irrigate their
fields, and if there is a dearth of natural water to make their crops
grow they suffer from lack of food and work unless they are pro-
vided with this sustenance of dried papas. And many Spaniards
have become rich and returned to Spain prosperous only from
carrying chuno to sell to the mines of Potosi.” 2+

Cieza also describes the great sandy desert along the Pacific coast
traversed at intervals by ribbons of verdure, where streams from
the Andes make their way seaward, not always, however, reaching
their destination. In this region he was much impressed by the
numerous cemeteries to which I have already referred, and by the
vestiges of cultivated fields which, even at that early time, had long
been abandoned, and whose ancient tillers were sleeping in the
adjacent tombs.

Cieza’s Chronica, first published in folio at Seville in 1553, was
followed the next year by a small size edition printed at Antwerp by
the famous publisher Jan Steeltz and by a third, in Italian, printed
at Rome in 1555. It was eagerly read as the first authentic account
of South America.

Padre José de Acosta, a Jesuit missionary, who was in South
America from 1571-1576, was the next author to treat of the Peru-
vian papas which he observed in their original habitat. After writ-
ing of yuca or manioc in his account of the edible roots of the
New World, he says: “ In the elevated region of the Sierra of Peru
and the provinces which they call the Collao, composing the greater
part of that kingdom, where the climate is so cold and dry that it
will not permit the cultivation of wheat or maize, the Indians use
another kind of roots which they call ‘ pappas,’ a kind of turmas
de tierra that send up scant foliage (echan arriba una poquilla hoja).
These pappas they collect and leave in the sun to dry well, and
breaking them they make what they call ‘chunyo’ which will keep
for food in that form many days and serves them for bread; and
of this chunyo there is great commerce in that kingdom with the

21 Parte primera de La Chronica del Peru—Hecha por Pedro de Cieza de Leon, Ant-
werp edition, p. 248. 1554.
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

mines of Potosi. Pappas are also eaten fresh either boiled or
roasted; and from one of the mildest varieties which also grows in
warm situations they make a certain ragout or cazuela which they
call ‘locro.’ Indeed, these roots are the only wealth of that land,
and when the season is favorable for the crop they (the Indians)
are glad; for many years the roots are spoiled and frozen in the
ground, so great is the cold and bad climate of that region.”

In preparing chufio, potatoes were subjected to freezing as well
as drying. The process is described in detail by Padre Bernabe
Cobo, who writes as follows: “The tubers are, gathered at the begin-
ning of the cold season, in May or June, spread out on the ground,
and exposed for a period of 12 or 15 days to the sun during the day
and the frost at night. At the end of this time they are somewhat
shriveled, but still watery. In order to get rid of the water, they
are then trampled upon and then left for 15 or 20 days longer to the
action of the sun and frost, at length becoming as dry and light as
a cork, very dense and hard, and so reduced in bulk that from four
or five Bega of fresh veel oris there results only one fanega of
chunyo.” Cobo adds that chunyo thus prepared will remain unspoiled
for many years and that the Indians of the Collao provinces eat no
other kind of bread. “A choicer and more highly prized quality is
prepared by soaking the tubers in water for about two months
after their preliminary drying. They are then taken out and dried
in the sun once more. This quality of chunyo, which is chalky white
within, is called ‘moray.’ From it a kind of flour, finer than wheat
flour, is prepared by the Spanish women, who use it for starch,
biscuit, and sweetmeats of all ALE like those confections usually
made Hie sugar and almonds.” **

In the economic herbarium of the United States Department of
Agriculture are specimens of chuno from ancient coast graves, and
in various museums of ethnology in America and the Old World
there are huacas, or funeral vases, representing tubers of Solanum
tuberosum similar to those Thana already described. The accom-
panying illustration, Plate 6, Figure J, for which I am indebted
to the Hon. Hiram Brigham, shows the elevated Peruvian Collao

‘with piles of potatoes and Quichua Indians preparing chuno exactly
as they did at the time of the visits of Cieza de Leon, Acosta, and
Padre Cobo. Plate 8 is an original photograph of moray, or white
chuno, in the United States National Museum, collected by Mr. O. F.
Cook, of the Bureau of Plant Industry, between Sicuani and Santa
Rosa, on the road from Cusco to Lake Titicaca.

= Cobo, Bernabe, Historia del Nuevo Mundo (1653) 1: 3861. 1890.
THE POTATO—SAFFORD 523
POTATOES CULTIVATED BY THE INDIANS OF SOUTHERN CHILE

In November, 1578, Sir Francis Drake encountered tubers of
Solanum tuberosum in use as a food staple by the Indians of
southern Chile, where they are still extensively cultivated. Their
occurrence at sea level in this part of South America is not singular,
for, as all students of plant distribution well know, many species
characteristic of the Andean vegetation thrive at altitudes lower and
lower as they extend southward, reaching sea level in the region of
the Chonos Archipelago and-the Straits of Magellan. Within less
than a decade after Drake’s visit, these tubers had become a regular
food on Spanish ships. On March 16, 1587, Thomas Cavendish,
stopping at St. Mary Island, near Concepcion, southern Chile, found
“ Cades of strawe filled with potato rootes, which were very good to
eat, ready made up in the storehouses for the Spaniards, against
they should come for their tribute.” At this very early date, less than
a century after the discovery of America, Cavendish found wheat
and barley in cultivation in southern Chile, and “Hogges and
Hennes” had also been introduced. “The Indians of this Island,”
said Master Francis Pretty, who wrote the narrative of the voyage,
“are held in such slavery by them (the Spaniards) th.‘ they dare
not eate a Henne or an Hogge themselves. But the Spanta:s have
made them all in that [land Christians. Thus wee fitted ourselves
here with corn as much as wee would have and as many Hogges as
wee had salt to powder them withal, and great store of Hennes, with
a number of Bagges of Potato rootes, and about 500 dried Dogge-
fishes, and Guinie Wheat which is called maiz (by the Spaniards).”

Sailing northward, looting the coast towns as he went, Cavendish
captured the Santa Anna, the Spanish “admirall,” or flagship, off
the coast of Mexico, taking from her three young Filipinos, “ borne
in the Isles of Manilla”; also a Spaniard, whom he caused to be
hung, after having been piloted by him from the Mexican coast to
Guam and the Philippines. The “ potato rootes” he encountered in
the latter islands were not Solanum tuberosum, but sweet potatoes,
Ipomoea batatas, easily recognizable by their Aztec name, “ Camote,”
which had accompanied them from Mexico, and which they still
bear in those islands.**

Cavendish, like Drake, returned to England around the Cape of
Good Hope. Whether he brought back potatoes with him is not
known, but it is quite certain that it was not he who introduced them

23 Camotes, or sweet potatoes, are the principal food crop of the hill-tribes of northern
Luzon, where they are extensively cultivated on terraced hillsides. It is declared by the
natives that their fathers always possessed them.
524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

into Europe, for he arrived at Plymouth the 9th of September,
1588, and more than eight months before this, on January 26, 1588,
Charles de L’Ecluse, or Carolus Clusius, at that time in charge of
the botanical gardens of Rudolph II, at Vienna, received from
Philippe de Sivry, Prefect of Mons in the Belgian province of Hai-
nault, two potato tubers which he planted in his garden. ‘These had
been sent to de Sivry by an attaché of the papal legation, who had
them from Italy, where they had been in cultivation since about
1585. The year following de Sivry sent to Clusius an excellent col-
ored drawing, now in the Plantin-Moretus Museum at Antwerp,
which bears the following inscription in the handwriting of Clusius:

Taratoufli a Philippo de Sivry acceptum Viennae 26 januarii 1588.—Papas
Peruanum Petri Ciecae.

This drawing is reproduced in the accompanying illustration (pl.
9). Its accuracy is shown by comparing it with plate 10, an original
photograph of a specimen in the economic herbarium of the United
States Department of Agriculture, propagated from a tuber collected
at Oruro, Bolivia, by Mr. W. F. Wight (No. 415).

At the time the drawing was made an interest in the potato had
been awakened by the appearance of Acosta’s account of the New
World, published first at Salamanca in Latin in 1588-89, and the
following year at Seville in Spanish, under the title Historia Natural
y Moral de las Indias. Acosta dedicated his work to “La Serenis-
sima Infanta, Dofia Isabel Clara Eugenia de Austria.”

It seems strange that a nourishing and easily cultivated food
staple like the potato, to whose excellence both Cieza and Acosta had
called attention, should have to wait so long for reccgnition. Other
cultivated plants of the New World, like maize, beans, and tobacco,
became widely spread in a remarkably short time after the discovery
of America.

The exact date of its introduction into Europe is not known. It
was, however, undoubtedly carried thither from Peru as a curious
food of the New World, possibly by the same Spaniards who, accord-
ing to Cieza, returned to Spain after having grown rich by carrying
chuno to the mines of Potosi.

Owing to Clusius’ delay in publishing his data, he was anticipated
by Gerard, who was indebted to him for information regarding the
potato, as he himself states in his Herbal. It was not Gerard who
gave to the potato its accepted botanical name, but Kaspar Bauhin,
who, in 1596, described it accurately under the very appropriate
name, Solanum tuberosum, which Linneeus adopted.*#

Like Clusius, Bauhin identified it with the papas of Spanish
America. His illustration was made from a specimen grown in the

*tSee Kaspar Bauhin, Pbhytopinax, seu enumeratio plantarum. .302. Basil. 1596.
THE POTATO—-SAFFORD a0

garden of Doctor Scholtz at Breslau, in Silesia, to which I shall
refer later. Clusius’ description, although antedating the publica-
tions of Gerard and Bauhin, did not appear until 1600.?°

INTRODUCTION OF THE POTATO INTO CULTURE

For more than a century Solanum tuberosum continued to be
grown as a curious exotic plant in gardens both in England and
on the Continent before it began to attain a reputation as a food
staple. Its value was first recognized in Ireland, where conditions
of soil and climate were peculiarly favorable for its propagation.
An illustration after a painting by Francis Walker of two young
women digging potatoes in County Donegal was published in Frank
Matthews’s Ireland (edition of 1912). The surrounding landscape
in this lovely picture (pl. 11) suggests the coast islands of southern
Chile where both Drake and Cavendish found the potato extensively
cultivated in the sixteenth century, as related in the first part of this
paper. Not only do the Irish and Chilean habitats resemble each
other but the climates of the two regions are also similar; that of
southern Chile, influenced by the Humboldt Current which sweeps
northward along the coast, and that of Ireland by the beneficent
Gulf Stream, which tempers the climate of the islands and shores
of the western coast.

It was the Irish peasants who first took up the cultivation of the
potato, and it soon became their only food crop, serving for break-
fast, dinner, and supper. Their affection for it is shown by many
pet epithets, including the “flowery potato,” and the “laughing
potato.” The simplest form in which it was eaten by them was
baked or boiled and dipped in a saucer of salted’ milk. Between
meals the children were allowed to roast potatoes on their own ac-
count in the turf or wood ashes. It was a common sight in passing
a cottage to see a group of little ones run to the door, each with a
roasted potato in his hand. While they lasted there was no dearth
of wholesome food. When the supply was exhausted it was neces-
sary to buy oatmeal, which was made into a sort of pudding or thick
porridge called “stir about.” Potatoes served as food also for the
family pig, the dog, and a few fowls. The poor had little else ex-
cept perhaps buttermilk at breakfast and supper. If the family
possessed a cow, there was also butter, which was used for frying
delicious potato cakes. It was not long before the Irish learned to
use potatoes as a source of whisky, in the preparation of which they
reduced the potatoes to a paste or pulp, added yeast and, after it
had undergone a process of fermentation, distilled it into a clear

2 Clusius, Rariorum plantarum historia, lib. 4, p. 78, 1601.
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

alcoholic liquor which was called “ poteen” from the small pots
used in the process.

Irom its skin they prepared a soup, and they used the water in
which potatoes are boiled as a curative wash for sprains and broken
limbs. Perhaps the most delicious potato preparation of all was
that called “pardy” or “cal-carron,’ made from new _ potatoes.
For the Irish the potato acquired an almost sacred significance, as
the daily bread which they received in answer to their prayers.
In certain localities it was customary at the time of planting for
the parish priest to march solemnly to the field and bless it, pray-
ing for a bountiful harvest. The potato, however, was not an
unmixed blessing to Ireland. Though it yielded an abundant re-
turn for little labor, yet the occasional failure of the crop caused
unspeakable misery to the people, for in their economy it had taken
the place of oatmeal and all other foods.*°

By whom and when the potato was introduced into Ireland is
not definitely known, but we know that it was cultivated there as a
field crop before 1663, a year of dearth in Great Britain and Ireland.
In March of that year the attention of the Royal Society was
called to it as a crop of national importance by Mr. Buckland, a
Somersetshire gentleman, and such members of the society as had
lands adapted to its culture were entreated to plant the new vegetable.
The recommendation was reported favorably by a committee to
whom it was referred, and Mr. Evelyn, the celebrated -practical
gardener of that period, was requested to enforce the society’s
opinion in the Sylva, at that time published under the society’s
auspices. It is evident that it found no favor with him, for in
1664, in his Kalendarium Hortensi, the first gardener’s calendar
published in Britain, he gives the following advice: “ Plant
potatoes in February in your worst ground.” In 1664, before the
Sylva appeared, there was published the first pamphlet advocating
the cultivation of the potato in England. It bears the follow-
ing prolix title: “ England’s happiness increased, or a sure and
easy remedy against all succeeding dear years by a plantation of
the roots called potatoes, whereof (with the addition of wheat
flour) excellent, good, and wholesome bread may be made every
year, eight or nine months together, for half the charges as formerly.
Also, by the planting of these roots 10,000 men in England and
Wales who know not how to live or what to do to get a maintenance
for their families, may, off 1 acre of ground, make £30 per annum.
Invented and published for the good of the poorer sorts by John
Forster, Gent., of Harslop, in Buckinghamshire.” The author identi-

7° f’or most of this information I am indebted to Rev. John J. Queally, rector of the
Church of the Transfiguration, Washington, D. C.
THE POTATO—-SAFFORD 527

fies the potatoes recommended as Irish potatoes, declaring that
“these roots, although they came at first from the Indies, yet
prosper well in Ireland, where there are whole fields of them, from
whence they have been brought into Wales and the north parts of
England, where they likewise prosper and increase exceedingly.”

After recommending methods for their cultivation, Forster gives
directions for making potato bread, potato biscuits, potato pudding,
potato custards, and potato cheese cakes. He declares that in good
ground there will be a yield of 3 or 4 heaped bushels per rod, for
which no one will grudge a shilling per bushel. Treating the
propagation of potatoes as a political measure, he earnestly recom-
mends the King, Charles II, to order potatoes to be imported from
Treland; that every man in every parish shall grow an acre or two;
and suggests that out of every £30 worth grown in a parish, £5
shall be paid as tribute to the King.

Notwithstanding the publication of this earnest appeal and its
indorsement by the Royal Society, the introduction of the potato
as a field crop was extremely slow. Before 1699 potatoes had been
introduced into Lancashire, where they became very common. It
was from Lancashire and Ireland that they were carried to the
British West Indies in the early part of the eighteenth century
and were propagated in the mountains of Jamaica under the name
Irish potatoes, and from Lancashire also they began to spread over
England. They were mentioned slightingly in publications early in
the eighteenth century. Loudon and Wise, in the seventh edition
of their “Compleat Gardener” published in 1719 did not even
mention the potato, and as late as 1770 it was not known generally
in the southwestern counties.

In Scotland potatoes were first cultivated as a field crop in 1739,
but were not known in the Highlands until 1748. Although their
culture by the cottagers was successful they did not meet with favor
among the higher classes, while zealous Presbyterians looked at
them askance, declaring that potatoes are not mentioned in the Bible.
It was not until they were urged by hunger that the Scotch
seriously took up the cultivation of the potato and became convinced
of its excellent qualities.?7

THE POTATO IN PRUSSIA AND FRANCE

Everyone knows the story of the introduction of potato culture
into Prussia, which Frederick the Great and his eccentric father
were so active in accomplishing. It has recently been told anew in
au paper read before the second Potato Congress held at Breslau in

“7Wor much of the foteeoine information relating to the introduction of the dataln
into Ireland and Great Britain I am indebted to a monograph entitled *‘ The Potato: Its
Culture, Uses, and History,’’ by George W. Johnson. London, 1847.
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

October, 1923, by E. Duczek.** The important part which the
potato has assumed in the economy of the German people is indi-
cated in this article by the preliminary prayer: “ Unser taeglich
Brot, gib uns Heute!”—and the reverence felt for the beneficent
autocrat is expressed at the end in a beautiful tribute to “ Fridericus
Immortalis.” In preparing his paper, Duczek had access to docu-
ments in the archives at Breslau, many of them faded and yellow
with age, in which potatoes figure under the names “ Kartoffeln,”
“Tartoffeln,’” and the quaint hybrid combination “ Erdtoffeln.”
Like all of his predecessors in potato literature, he begins with the
Drake, Hawkins and Heriot myths and the story of the disgruntled
gardener—whether Raleigh’s or Drake’s, he does not specify.

He then goes on to tell the story of the introduction of the potato
into his native province, pointing out that it was first cultivated at
Breslau in the garden of Dr. Laurentius Scholtz. This celebrated
garden, already referred to as the source of the potatoes used by
Bauhin for his illustrations, was reproduced as faithfully as possible
in honor of the Potato Culture Exposition of 1913 at Breslau. The
first active measures taken for the introduction of the potato into
Prussia were those of the great Elector, Frederick William, who in
1651 caused potatoes to be planted in the Berlin Lustgarten. On
Plate 12 the Grosser Kurfuerst is shown with his consort inspecting
the potatoes planted by his orders. His grandson, King Frederick
William I, in his effort to foster potato culture, resorted to drastic
steps, threatening to cut off the noses and ears of all who refused
to plant them. He also decreed that they should be fed to the poor
inmates of the Berlin Charitee and presented to the hospital a piece
of land to be used solely for their cultivation; but the real credit for
promoting potato culture in Prussia, especially in Silesia and Pom-
erania, must be awarded to his illustrious son, Frederick the Great.
In the year 1744, Frederick II caused seed potatoes to be gratui-
tously distributed and compelled the peasants to cultivate them. Not
only were edicts and ordinances issued, but the local authorities were
warned that their duties did not cease with the promulgation of the
decrees. They were held responsible for their practical enforce-
ment through the aid of the land dragoons, and were expected to
make official reports from time to time setting forth the condition
of potato plantations in their districts and the zeal shown by the
peasants in cultivation of the crop.

In the Breslau archives Herr Duczek found two original royal
circulars, the first dated March 24, 1756, the second April 5, 1757,
both of them showing remarkable familiarity on the part of Fred-

See Zeitschrift der Landwirthschaftskammer Schlesien. Kartoffelnummer. 27
Jahrgang, p. 1152. Oct. 27, 1923. For this publication I am indebted to Dr. Otto
Appel, Direktor der Biologischen Reichsanstalt fiir Land u. Forst-Wirthschaft, Berlin-
Dahlem ; also for the number of Mar. 15, 28 Jahrgang, 1924.
THE POTATO—SAFFORD 529

erick the Great with the best methods of potato culture. In the
second circular, which was published in full in the later number of
the Breslau Zeitschrift, the King advises that potatoes be planted
in the dark of the moon. He also indicates the proper time of plow-
ing, manuring, and planting the fields, cautioning the farmers that
if they plant small potatoes they will raise small potatoes, while
the best results will follow from the selection of large tubers, which
should be so cut as to leave an eye in each piece. He also instructs
them how to keep potatoes in straw-lined pits through the winter,
and that although potato patches do not need the same protection
from cattle and sheep as grain fields, yet care should be taken not
to herd swine in their neighborhood. After digging them, at Mi-
chaelmas, the hogs need no longer be kept away, but may be allowed
to rush in and eat their fill of the tubers left in the ground. The
circular ends with various recipes for the preparation of potatoes
as food for both man and beast.

These circulars, enforced by local officials, had their effect, but
it was famine, caused by the Silesian wars, especially the Seven
Years War, which established potato culture in Prussia on a firm
basis.

The introduction of potatoes into France was largely due to the
celebrated Antoine Auguste Parmentier, who, while a prisoner in
Germany, during the Seven Years War, was fed upon potatoes and
jearned to like them. He was then serving as pharmacist in the
Hanover army, and during his hours of captivity he conceived the
idea of introducing potato culture on a grand scale into his own
country. Potatoes had hitherto been in bad repute in France, owing
to the attacks made upon them by physicians, who declared that they
were poisonous and were the cause of many maladies. <A set of
colored woodcuts published in a series of educational pictures, called
the Serie Encyclopédique ” Gluq, des Lecons des Choses Ilustrées,”*
tells the story of Parmentier’s success. After his return to France,
while serving as pharmacist at the Invalides, he entertained Ben-
jamin Franklin, Lavoisier, and other distinguished guests with a
great dinner at which the bill of fare consisted entirely of potatoes
served in various ways. Yet there were still learned agronomists
who declared that although the potato might be a good vegetable it
would be dangerous to introduce it, for it would ruin the soil wher-
ever it was planted. Then Parmentier, to prove the falsity of these
assertions, obtained from Louis XVI permission to plant potatoes
in a piece of land called “Les Sablons,” notorious for its sterility.
When in a short time the potatoes sprouted and this field, which
hitherto had been known only as a sandy waste, assumed the appear-
ance of a blooming garden, people began to believe that Parmentier

530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

was right. In order to forward his ends, he caused his potato planta-
tion to be guarded by soldiers in full uniform throughout the day,
under the pretext of. preventing depredations; but at night the
guard was withdrawn, whereupon a number of people, allured by the
attraction of forbidden fruit, came secretly to steal potatoes, to
plant them in their own gardens or to eat them. ‘This was the very
object which the good Parmentier had in view. When the planta-
tion at Les Sablons was in full bloom Parmentier made a great
bouquet of potato blossoms which he carried to Versailles and pre-
sented to Louis XVI. The King placed one of the flowers in his
buttonhole, and in the evening Marie Antoinette appeared with a
cluster in her hair. This was sufficient. All the court followed the
example of their sovereigns. In graciously accepting Parmentier’s
offering, the King said: “ France will thank you some day for hav-
ing found bread for the poor.”

No statue has been erected in Parmentier’s honor, but on his grave
in the cemetery of Pere Lachaise potatoes bloom each year, showing
that he has not been forgotten by the people of France.

THE POTATO IN NORTH AMERICA

Instead of having been taken from North America to Great
Britain and Ireland, as set forth in the myths regarding the “ Vir-
ginia potato,” Solanum tuberosum was first brought from Ireland to
North America, where it is known as the “Irish potato.” This hap-
pened in 1719, when a colony of Scotch-Irish immigrants established
a settlement at Londonderry, Rockingham County, N. H., bringing
with them potatoes and flax. Hazlett, in his history of Rockingham
County, gives the following account of this settlement:

The first crops raised by the emigrants were potatoes and flax. They had
brought their seed and spinning wheels from Ireland and were the first to
cultivate the potato and manufacture linen in New England. They appear
to have cultivated land in common the summer after their arrival, as there is
a tract known by the name of the “Common Field,” containing about 2%
acres and situated a few miles west of the dwelling house of Mr. Jonathan
Cate, in Derry. It was undoubtedly a clearing, and may have been an
abandoned planting ground of the Indians, who were gradually retiring to
deeper shades of the wilderness in the wilds of Canada.”

A more detailed description, with perhaps a flavor of romance, is
given by Parker in his “ History of Londonderry.” Describing the
arrival of the settlers of this town, he says:

They introduced the culture of the potato, which they brought with them
from Ireland. Until their arrival, this valuable vegetable, now regarded as
one of the necessities of life, if not wholly unknown, was not cultivated in

New England. To them belongs the credit of its introduction to general use.
Although highly prized by this company of settlers, it was for a long time but

8 Hazlett, Charles A. History of Rockingham County, N. H. Page 506. 1915.
THE POTATO—SAFFORD Bol

little regarded by their English neighbors, a barrel or two being considered a
supply for a family. But its value as food for man and for beast became
at length more generally known, and who can now estimate the full advantage
of its cultivation to this country? The following well-authenticated fact will
show how little known to the community at large the potato must have been.
A few of the settlers had passed the winter previous to their establishment
here in Andover, Mass. On taking their departure from one of the families,
with whom they had resided, they left a few potatoes for seed. The potatoes
were accordingly planted, came up and flourished well; blossomed and produced
balls, which the family supposed were the fruit to be eaten. They cooked the
balls in various ways, but could not make them palatable, and pronounced
them unfit for food. The next spring, while ploughing their garden, the
plough passed through where the potatoes had grown, and turned out some of
great size, by which means they discovered their mistake.

It is not the province of this paper to follow the development of
potato culture in the United States. For this the reader is referred
to the admirable monograph on the potato by William Stuart, of the
United States Department of Agriculture, who treats of its culture,
uses, history, and classification.

”
i}

SEARCH FOR’ THE WILD ANCESTOR

Has the potato ever been found growing wild? Several explorers
have encountered what was believed to be the wild form. Charles
Darwin, in January, 1835, found wild potatoes growing in the
Chonos Archipelago, southern Chile, not far from where cultivated
potatoes were procured by Sir Francis Drake and Thomas Caven-
dish. These, however, as well as tuber-bearing Solanums collected
in Peru, Mexico, and the southwestern United States have proved to
be quite distinct from Solanwm tuberosum. Specialists who have
devoted themselves to the study of tuber-bearing Solanums unite in
their declaration that the true Solanum tuberosum has never been
found growing wild. Dr. George Bitter, of Bremen, emphasizes
the fact that the problem of the origin of our cultivated potato is stili
unsolved and that we know nothing of its original form before it
was cultivated by the Arauco Indians of Chile and the Incas of Peru.
Both he and Rydberg show that the so-called Solanum tuberosum
boreale of our Southwest is not a variety of the true potato; and Mr.
W. F. Wight, after a long journey of exploration in South America
and careful research among specimens in herbariums of Europe and
America declares that “every reported occurrence of wild Solanwm
tuberosum that I have been able to trace to a specimen, either living
or preserved in the herbarium, has proved to be a different species.
In fact, so far as the herbarium material is concerned, I have not
found in any of the principal European collections a single specimen
of Solanum tuberosum collected in an undoubtedly wild state. After
a century and a half of intermittent collecting, there is no botanical
evidence that the species is now growing in its original indigenous
932 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

condition anywhere. * * * So far as the number and relation-
ship of the species referred to the section Tuberarium are concerned,
the evidence is favorable to the central Andean region.*!

SUMMARY

Irom the evidence presented in this paper the following sum-
mary may be made:

I. The statement that the potato was found growing in North
America by the English colonists and carried thence to England,
for which Gerard is responsible, is not true; the openawk of the
Algonquin Indians with which it was confused by early writers is
a tuber-bearing climber of the bean family, the Glycine apios of
Linnzeus.

Il. The story of its introduction into Ireland by Sir Walter
Raleigh is a myth invented in 1693, more than a hundred years
after the return of his ill-fated colony from Roanoke Island. The
Drake myth which was substituted for it is equally without
foundation.

III. The cultivation of Solanwm tuberosum in pre-Columbian
times extended from southern Chile along the Andes and the high-
lands of Peru and Bolivia to the mountains of Ecuador and Co-
lombia, but did not reach the shore of the Caribbean Sea. The
- potatoes ” encountered on the shore and islands of that sea by
early navigators were sweet potatoes.

IV. It was carried to Europe from South America by the
Spaniards soon after 1580, thence to Italy, and in 1588 reached
Charles l’Ecluse, keeper of the botanical garden at Vienna. It was
cultivated as a field crop in Ireland before 1663. It did not reach
the United States until 1719, when it was brought from Ireland
by immigrants who settled at Londonderry, N. H. The Irish
potato reached the West Indies after 1700, and was first propagated
from seed brought from the British Isles.

V. Dried specimens and representations of potatoes in terra
cotta found in prehistoric tombs show that excellent varieties had
been developed before the discovery of America.

VI. Numerous species of tuber-bearing Solanums have been col-
lected in various parts of America both north and south of the
equator, but Solanum tuberosum itself has never been found in its
wild state. EXvidence as to the place of its origin points to the
central Andean region where conditions of soil and climate are
such that a number of plants of other families have developed
tubers of a similar nature.

31 Wight, W. F. Origin, introduction, and primitive culture of the potato, in Proceed-
ings of the Third Annual Meeting of the Potato Association of America, p. 37. 1916.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Saftord PLATE |

JOHN GERARD

He is holding in his hand a flowering branch of Solanwm tuberosum, which he called Battata
swe Virginianorum & Pappus, pretending to have received from Virginia the tuber from
which it was propagated. He must be held responsible for the transfer of the name Potato
from Ipomoea batatas to Solanum tuberosum and for the confusion of the latter with the
Openauk of Virginia. Portrait reproduced from his Herbal. 1597
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 2

THE ORIGINAL POTATO, NOW CALLED SWEET POTATO

Opomoea batatas. Confused by early writers with Solanum tuberosum. Observed first by
Columbus, November 4, 1492, and described in his journal as ‘‘ Niames (yams) resembling
carrots, with a savor of chestnuts.’’ Identified by Las Casas, his contemporary, as ‘‘ Ajes”’
or ‘‘Batatas.’’ Collected at Santa Fe, on the north coast of South America, in 1565 by
Sir John Hawkins, who described it as ‘‘the most delicate roots that may be eaten.’’ Photo-
graph of specimen growing in the garden of Harry A. Allard, Bureau of Plant Industry
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 3

THE VIRGINIA POTATO OR OPENAUK

Glycine apios, the Openauk or Penak of the Algonquin Indians. A plant of the Bean family,
with edible tubers and pealike seeds, endemic in eastern North America from Florida to
the St. Lawrence River. Encountered by Sir Walter Raleigh’s second colony on Roanoke
Island in 1586. Photographed from a specimen collected by O. M. Freeman in marshy
thicket in Virginia, across the Potomac River from Washington
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 4

OPENAUK ROOTS OR INDIAN POTATOES

Tubers called Openauk by the Virginia Algonquins and Penak by those of Canada. ‘A kind
of rootes of round form, some of the bignes of walnuts, growing many together one by
another, or as thogh fastened with astring.’-—Thomas Heriot. 1588. Photographed from
a Specimen collected by J. B. Norton, near Washington, D. C.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 5

A GERMAN MONUMENT TO DRAKE

Sir Francis Drake holding a potato plant with its tubers attached. This monument stands
in Offenburg, Baden, in commemoration of his alleged introduction of the Potato into
Europe. The inscription on the statue reads: ‘‘Sir Francis Drake, introducer of the Potato
into Europe, in the year of our Lord 1580.’’ Note the potato plant in Drake’s hand and the
decorative frieze of potatoes around the base of the statue. From a photograph received
through the kindness of Dr: Otto Appel of Berlin-Dahlem
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 6

|. DRYING POTATOES FOR CHUNO

View of the elevated Peruvian Collao, showing Quichua Indians preparing Chuno. Photo-
graph received from the Hon. Hiram Bingham. See National Geographic Magazine, April,
1913, page 568

2. ANCIENT FOODS FOUND WITH PERUVIAN MUMMIES

Food staples found in Pre-Columbian graves of the coast of Peru, including several varieties
of beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), lima beans (Phaseolus lunatus), manioe (Jatropha manihot),
maize (Zea mays), peanuts ( Arachis hypogaea), sweet potatoes (Ipomoea batatas), and chunyos,
or dried potatoes. The latter in the central foreground. Original photograph of specimens
in the American Museum of Natural History, New York
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford

PLATE 7

POTATO VASES

1. A funeral vase in the form of two pota-
toes in natural colors from a grave at
Chimbote, on the coast of Peru, col-
lected by W. E. Safford, 1892. Field
Museum, Chicago, No. 1188

2. Black ware vase from a Chimbote grave,
in the form of a conventionalized potato.
Collection of Spencer F. Baird, U. S. Na-
tional Museum. Original photograph

CONVENTIONALIZED POTATOES

. A whistling hwaca of black ware, in the form of conventionalized potatoes, from a Chimbote
grave. Collection of Spencer F. Baird in the U. S. National Museum. Original photograph
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 8

MORAY OR WHITE CHUNO

Potatoes frozen, dried, trampled, soaked in water, and dried again. Specimens in U. S. National
Museum collected by Mr. O. F. Cook, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Original photograph
PLATE 9

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford

raratoutly a Endinp de Siury
wc cplun Vico we L6-Jonvary

f t 585 4
Pepas Praancn Pod x2 Gece

OLDEST DRAWING OF THE POTATO

es de L’Ecluse from Philippe de Sivry, January 26, 1588. The earliest

Drawing received by Charl
Original in Plantin-Moretur Museum at Antwerp

European illustration of the potato.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 10

A MODERN POTATO

Herbarium specimen of Solanum tuberosum and tuber from which it was grown. Collected by
Mr. W. F. Wight at Oruro, Bolivia. Original photograph
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE I]

POTATOES A NECESSITY

Mother and daughter digging potatoes on the coast of Ireland. From a painting by Francis
Walker published in Frank Matthew’s Ireland (edition of 1912)
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Safford PLATE 12

BOPP EARS eas naga, Se

go

Die furfiiritliGe Ramilte bei den erften Kartoffclpflangungen.

POTATOES A CURIOSITY

The Great Elector, Frederick William, with his consort, inspecting the potatoes planted by his
order in the Berlin Lustgarten. Not until the reign of his great-grandson, Frederick the Great,
didthe potato become a popular food staple in Prussia. Photograph of etching by Ebner,
received through the courtesy of Doctor Appel
THE RELATION OF GEOGRAPHY TO TIMBER SUPPLY?

By W. B. GREELEY

Chief, United States Forest Service

[With 3 plates]

Kiven since Hiram, King of Tyre, shipped rafts of fir and cedar
down the Mediterranean coast to trade with the Jews of Solomon’s
day, timber has been an important factor in the commerce of the
nations. Among the first exports from the American colonies to
the mother country were clapboards split from the oak of Virginia,
ship masts cut from the pine forests of New England, and pitch
extracted from the piney woods of the South Atlantic. The prog-
ress of civilization has been called a struggle between human wants
and natural resources. And no part of this age-long contest has
been more clear cut than the effort of mankind to supply its need
for wood.

Most of the industrially aggressive nations have lived in forested
regions, and most of them have been liberal users of timber. The
course of these nations in satisfying their requirements for forest-
grown materials has usually run through three different stages. At
first they have cut freely from their own virgin forests as long as
the supply lasted. Then they have cast about for what they might
barter from their neighbors. And finally they have settled down to
the systematic growing of wood on all the land that could be spared
for the purpose, still finding it necessary or convenient in many
cases to import a substantial part of their national requirements
from other countries whose virgin forests have not yet become
depleted or whose timber culture produces an exportable surplus.

Man-grown timber, however, is costly, while timber stored up in
nature’s undrained warehouses is cheap. The source of supply is
thus largely governed by the cost of growing timber at home as com-
pared with the cost of hauling it from the nearest virgin forests still
available for exploitation. In the long run, forestry is pitted
against transportation.

1 Reprinted by permission from Economic Geography, vol. 1, No. 1, March, 1925.
76041—26——385 533
534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

The United States is still in the first of these three stages. By far
the greater part of the wood we use is still obtained from our own vir-
gin forests. But the end of this supply is plainly in sight. The neces-
sity is at hand of finding a new source of wood, either in timber
culture on our own soil or in the forests of other countries. The
consumption of timber in this country is so enormous that the prob-
lem assumes staggering proportions. We use annually about 12,-
000,000,000 cubic feet of saw-log timber, or nearly half of the quan-
tity consumed in the entire world. Our use of all forest products,
including pulpwood, railroad ties, mine timbers, and fuel wood, ag-
gregates 22,500,000,000 cubic feet, or about two-fifths of the yearly
consumption in the entire world.

Other countries which have likewise exhausted their virgin forests
have found new sources of wood either in the practice of forestry or
through imports from their neighbors, or by combining both of these
methods, without sudden industrial upheavals or serious timber
famines. Their consumption of forest products has been relatively
small; the change was gradual and usually involved no great difficulty.
The enormous use of wood in the United States, however, and its inti-
mate relation to national living standards, manufactures, and basic in-
dustries like agriculture, mining, and transportation, make our prob-
lem far more serious. We must find, almost overnight, a fresh source
of raw material sufficient to supply sixty or seventy million tons of
forest products annually. Instead of a gradual industrial evolution,
the change is coming with the suddenness of an economic crisis.

The forest history of the United States herself strikingly illus-
trates the relation of geography to timber supply. To the colonists
and explorers of the seventeenth century, America appeared a vast,
unbroken forest. Even after geographers had mapped the full
extent of the prairies and western deserts they found that nearly
half of her total land area, or more than 820,000,000 acres, was origi-
nally in forest. Although the export of timber products began in
the early days of the Atlantic Colonies, for several generations the
forest represented a barrier to settlement and migration rather than
an economic resource. Nothing could have appeared more remote
than a shortage of timber. About 200,000,000 acres of our original
forest area has been cleared for cultivation and settlement, and the
stumpage removed from three-fourths of it was destroyed for lack
of a market.

When the manufacture of lumber at little sawmills, run by water
power, became a fairly established industry, there was no lack of the
finest raw material at their very doors. Lumber was moved but very
short distances and its cost was exceedingly low. In 1736 pine lum-
ber prices in New England were commonly around $5 per thousand
TIMBER SUPPLY——-GREELEY 535

board feet. Between 1799 and 1834 pine lumber cut on the Kennebec
River in Maine was sold on the Boston market for from $10 to $14.
per thousand board feet. Slowly, very slowly, the frontier of virgin
forest began to move back from the centers of population, and, as the
sawmill followed its retreat, the element of transportation entered
into the cost of forest products.

Up to the time of the Civil War, short and cheap lumber hauls,
almost wholly by water, characterized our timber traffic. Lumber
or logs moved down the Atlantic coast from Maine to Boston, about
225 miles, from the upper Hudson to New York, not over 200 miles,
and from the shores of the Great Lakes into Buffalo and Chicago.
The rafting of the Pennsylvania rivers rarely covered more than
400 miles; and the bulk of the products of “ Penn’s Woods” moved
much shorter distances, as from Williamsport to Philadelphia.
One or two or three dollars at the most paid the freight bill cn a
thousand feet, and the consumer’s price was correspondingly low.
Even up to 1902 the short local shipments from the Lake region
held cargo prices on white pine boards at Chicago down to $16
yer thousand feet or less.

The change came with the railroad building and industrial ex-
pansion that followed the Civil War. Lumber manufacture ceased
to be a village industry. It caught the spirit of “big business” and
rapidly forged into the lead with large organizations, tremendous
capitalization, and the efficient tools of quantity production. It
reached out with unequaled driving power in manufacture and
merchandising. It taught the American people to use wood in
prodigious and unheard-of quantities. In 1840 the per capita
consumption of lumber probably did not exceed 100 board feet.
By 1906 it had become 516 board feet. Behind the sawmills came
the paper mills, using more and more wood until it now forms 90
per cent of their raw material. Through their energetic attack upon
the forests another great national appetite for wood has been created.
The per capita consumption of paper has increased five fold since
1840. Then came the veneer plants, the distillation plants, the
vehicle and agricultural implement factories, the makers of rail-
road ties and telegraph poles, and a hundred industrial develop-
ments with their greater or lesser demands for timber. The ex-
ploitation of virgin forests has been a foremost contributor to the
economic growth of the United States during the last 70 years.

It was inevitable that our timber resources should shrink rapidly
before this terrific onslaught. The story is told in the maps show-
ing the approximate extent of the virgin forests in 1620, 1850, and
1920. The first 230 years of settlement and industrial expansion
made relatively shght inroads. In the last 70 years the depietion
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

of our timber supply has gone on apace. And as the virgin forests
disappeared, the relation of geography to timber supply has become
more and more pronounced. It is summed up in the cost of trans-

AREA OF VIRGIN FOREST

portation from the standing tree to the user of its products. From
the economic viewpoint our forest history is a record of widening
gaps between the consumer of lumber or paper and the source of
his supply.

Se SOSt*é<“i‘;é‘<ARREEA:«OO':«*VVIRGINN FOREST
é 1850

£ach dot represents
25,000 acres

As long as Maine, New York, and Pennsylvania were the fore-
most lumber-producing States, lumber was cheap in the great mar-
kets of the country, primarily because the hauls were short and
TIMBER SUPPLY—GREELEY Spill

largely by water. When the center of lumber manufacture moved
to the Lake States in the eighties and nineties the era of the box
car as a lumber carrier began. Freight rates were long tempered
by water transportation on the Lakes, through the Erie Canal, and
down the Mississippi; but at that it cost $6 or $7 per thousand feet
to ship lumber a thousand miles from Saginaw to New York by
water, or treble the old rate on Hudson River pine. As steadily as
the more accessible virgin forests went through the hopper, the
railroads gained ascendency in lumber traffic, the hauls lengthened,
and the average retail prices rose from one level to another.
During and following the nineties the pineries of the Lake States
rapidly approached exhaustion and the center of the national sup-
ply of softwood lumber shifted to the South. Rail shipments in

AREA OF VIRGIN FOREST
1920

Each dot represents
25.000 acres

excess of 750 miles and freight bills of $8 or $10 or more per thou-
sand board feet became common. As southern pine gradually se-
cured control of the Chicago market, lumber prices advanced to 75
or 100 per cent beyond the old rates fixed by water transportation
from Michigan. or Wisconsin mills. Southern lumber moved 1,100
miles to Pittsburgh and 1,500 miles to Boston, at freight rates
which, since the World War, have ranged from $12.50 to $15 per
thousand feet. Retail prices necessarily climbed to a higher level,
but only as a stepping stone to what has followed as the last chap-
ter in the exploitation of our virgin forests is being written.

The virgin pineries of the South covered 180,000,000 acres and
contained probably 650,000,000,000 feet of saw timber. They formed
one of the richest reservoirs of softwoods on the earth’s surface, and
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

for the past 30 years they have been the mainstay of the eastern and
central lumber markets of the United States. But the process of
timber depletion is running its course in the South as it has pre-
viously been run in the Lake States and the Alleghenies. The pro-
duction of southern pine lumber passed its peak in 1916, and the
last great migration of American sawmills is under way—across the
Great Plains to the virgin forests of the Pacific coast. Im 1920 over
600,000,000 board feet of western lumber was shipped to New Eng-
land and over 1,200,000,000 feet was marketed in Hlinois, Michigan,
Wisconsin, and Minnesota. In 1922, 3314 per cent of our entire
lumber cut was manufactured on the Pacific coast as compared with
40 per cent in the Southern States. Western lumber is now moving
in a steadily increasing volume 2,000 or 2,800 miles by rail to the

@ fp LUMBER SHORTAGES AND SURPLUSES BY STATES Nxhy
cy FOR THE YEAR 1920
ORES

This circle repre-
sents 2bhi//ion
board feet

Middle West at a freight cost of $17 or $18 per thousand board feet,
and 7,000 miles by sea and the Panama Canal to northern Atlantic
ports at a charter rate of $16 or $17 per thousand feet. Lumber
manufactured on Puget Sound is now, indeed, moved by steamer
to Chesapeake Bay and reshipped inland, past the old sawmill towns
of the Aleghenies, as far as Pittsburgh and Cincinnati.

Every year the cost of transportation enters more largely into the
lumber bills paid by the American home builder or the American
factory. ‘Two-thirds of the lumber which we use is consumed in the
Central and Eastern States. The lumber traffic in 1920 exceeded
1,660,000 carloads and cost, in freight and charters, over $250,000,000.
The average carload was hauled 485 miles. Between 1914 and 1920
the average rail haul on lumber was lengthened by more than 30 per
cent, and the total yearly freight paid on lumber shipments ad-
vanced $100,000,000.

Excess of consumption
over preducvion.

WA Surplus of production
over consumption
TIMBER SUPPLY—GREELEY 539

These mounting costs for transportation underlie the rise in lum-
ber prices. Costs and profits in retail distribution tend to pyramid
upon every increase in freight. And as the sawmills become more
largely concentrated in distant and restricted regions, the competi-
tive movement of lumber into consuming markets*is curtailed.
Retail prices seldom fail to advance in response to such opportuni-
ties. The story of lumber prices in a group of Minnesota towns is
illuminating. In 1905, 91 per cent of their supply came from the
Lake States. The average freight cost was $3.25 per thousand feet
and the average selling price was $26. In 1921 over 92 per cent of
the lumber handled in these towns came from the Pacific coast. The
average freight bill was $18.12 per thousand feet and the average
selling price $53.58. Transportation cost had increased from 12%

THIS REGION.
CONSUMED 45%
OF OUR LUMBER

THIS REGION
CUT 30% OF OUR
LUMBER IN 1920
THIS REGION CUT
34% OF OUR LUMBER
IN 1920

per cent to 34 per cent of the retail price, but the actual cost to the
consumer, it will be noted, had more than doubled.

In fact, the prices paid by the average user of every-day con-
struction lumber the country over have more than doubled within
the last 12 years. The very freight paid on lumber is now often
more than its delivered price 80 years ago. Hence it is not difficult
to understand why lumber prices have advanced during the last 80
years three and a half times as rapidly as the index price based
upon all staple commodities. It took $510 in 1921 to buy as much
lumber—and poorer lumber at that—as $100 bought in 1840.

The story of the American paper industry is somewhat different
but reflects no less clearly the extent to which our virgin forests
have been depleted. Paper manufacture requires exceptionally heavy
plant investments. Hence it has not followed the retreating frontier
of virgin forests to nearly the same extent as have the sawmills, but
540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

has remained largely concentrated in the northeastern States. As a
consequence the raw material available on American soil has been
wholly unable to sustain our increasing consumption of paper. Of
the 8,000,000 tons used in the United States in 1922, 53 per cent came
from foreign countries in the form of pulpwood, manufactured pulp,
or finished paper. Thirty-seven per cent was imported from Canada
alone, including over 1,000,000 cords of raw pulp wood. The cost
of the pulp wood delivered at American plants, much of which is
now hauled excessive distances, has probably increased even more
rapidly than the price of lumber. In satisfying its needs for this im-
portant forest product, therefore, the United States has already out-
stripped the resources of her own virgin forests. She has been driven
to the paper and pulp-wood markets of the world.

MILES 500

LEGEND

PAPER MILLS
WOODOPULP AND PAPER MILLS
FIBER PULP AND PAPER MILLS

SYMBOL APPLIES TO ONE OR MORE MILLS
MANAGED AS ONE ESTABLISHMENT

The stern facts of geography have largely controlled these past
developments in our forest industries and in the cost of their wares
to the American consumer. The true measure of timber supply is
not quantity but availability. Sixty per cent of all the wood that
is left in the United States and 75 per cent of its virgin timber le
west of the Great Plains, whereas two-thirds of the population and
an even larger proportion of our agriculture and manufactures are
east of the Great Plains. The forests bordering the Pacific coast
contain over a trillion feet of virgin stumpage. At the most, they
will not supply our present consumption very long, but already the
unbalanced geographical distribution of this resource is creating
well-nigh famine prices in the parts of the United States where
forest products are used in the largest quantities. Dependence upon
TIMBER SUPPLY—GREELEY 541

the softwood forests of Siberia as the principal source of supply
would differ from our present situation only in degree.

And as geography controls the cost of the products of virgin
forests when they reach the ultimate consumer in Massachusetts,
Illinois, or Florida, so will geography control the substitution of
other sources of timber supply. Most of the other countries have
progressed from one stage to another in their source of wood more
or less as single geographical units. In the United States the dis-
tances are so great and the local conditions so diverse that this
transition is bound, for some time to come, to be regional rather
than national. We have already seen that, owing to the concentra-
tion of the paper industry in the northeastern States, more than
half of our consumption of wood fiber products is now drawn from
foreign sources. And by the same token the exigencies of the por-
tions of the country farthest removed from the dwindlng frontier
of virgin forests are driving them to a new source of wood—namely,
the timber crop.

Forestry is the economic competitor of transportation. As long
as cheap virgin stumpage available at no great distance dominated
our lumber and paper markets there was no place in the economic
scheme of things for systematic timber growing. But once the cost
of transporting forest products from the nearest virgin sources
exceeds the cost of growing them at home, timber culture not only
becomes economically feasible but sooner or later is impelled by
purely commercial forces. This is just what is taking place to-day,
to a limited degree, in New England, New York, Pennsylvania, and
New Jersey; and, to a still more limited degree, in the South.
Second-growth white pine in New England, 30 or 40 years old, is
worth from $15 to $20 per thousand board feet standing in the
woods. Second-growth southern pine of the same age brings from
$8 to $12 on the stump. With such returns before them and with
timber values constantly moving upward, hard-headed business men
realize that forestry pays. One might almost plat the process by a
series of geographical! zones, and show that when the freight rate
into any consuming region from the nearest large supply of virgin
timber passes the $10 or $12 mark, an economic basis for timber
cropping is afforded and forestry slowly finds a place in the use of
land.

Forest conservation in the United States hitherto has been largely
a matter of public ownership of timberland and public policies
based not upon costs and profits but upon foresight of coming na-
tional necessities. To-day it is percolating down into the counting-
heuse and the directors’ board room. The illusion of inexhaustible
virgin forests has spent itself. Wood-using industries recognize the
alternatives which they face—producing their future raw material
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

or passing out of existence. A committee of pulp and paper manu-
facturers is studying ways and means of perpetuating their industry
on American soil. A committee of turpentine and rosin producers
is going to France to learn the naval stores forestry of the Landes
and how it may be applied to our southern pineries. ‘These are
signs of the times.

The shortage of available virgin timber is growing more and
more critical every year. It can not be emphasized too strongly
that the seriousness of this problem is in proportion to our enor-
mous use of wood, to our unparalleled economic and social de-
pendence upon forests. ‘To solve this problem with even meager
success, every resource of American ingenuity and foresight must be
employed.

FOREST REGIONS OF THE WORLD

: r BSS conirers EGS HARDWOODS AND
COMPILED BY THE MIXED TYPES
US FOREST SERVICE

= = =a a

Like the other nations in similar pheht, we must barter for all
the timber we can secure from our neighbors. The prospects in
this direction, however, are not encouraging. Our present exports
and imports of lumber and other forest products nearly balence.
The imports can undoubtedly be increased somewhat, particularly
of paper from Canada and of lumber in limited quantities from
certain Canadian provinces and from Mexico. The hardwood
forests of South America and the softwood forests of Siberia hold
out possible sources of relief. But a number of other industrially
aggressive nations are in the same situation as the United States.
A recent survey* of the principal forest resources and wood-using
countries of the world shows that the markets of the whole earth
are short of raw materials for paper and construction lumber, and
that the accessible supply of timber, particularly of Seen

2Zon and Sparhawk, Forest Resources of the World, 1923.
TIMBER SUPPLY—GREELEY 543

timber, is not adequate to meet the requirements of modern civiliza-

tion. The cost of transporting Asiatic or South American lumber

to the United States, added to prices at the source fixed by keen

international competition, would be well-nigh prohibitive for ordi-
nary construction or industrial purposes.

Nevertheless, we must get all the foreign wood that we can to
tide over the lean years, and we must go after it intelligently and
systematically. For one thing, a thorough study should be made
of the resources available in the hardwood forests of Central and
South America and their utility for the replacement of our rapidly
waning supply of native hardwoods. For another thing, it should
be our policy in foreign trade and tariff making to encourage im-
ports of timber and timber products. The United States can ill

DOLLARS BILLIONS
PER !000 BD.FT.
BD) Fal:
Peay
Lumber Production of the Ur LS S1ales 4
50
40

ane A/l/ Sortw (00'S res

20 —T |
10 - -
Southern yellow Pine
O No.2 Cornmrnon Boards 0
OPINiIN@) AID IOI) 1@) Ue OPLO) OeoOliOr ip? ©) lava
PNG Le) Cin iets OO COG) nO) ne) Ot ——
aoaonaonaadaeadaeaosedadandsedaDaanoaoDDnDDD MD YD

afford to place barriers around its depleted forests and hungry
lumber markets.

Undoubtedly we must and will learn to use less wood. The high
cost of lumber has already decreased its per capita consumption in
the United States about 40 per cent below the peak of 1906. Steel,
cement, and clay products have been substituted for much of the
construction lumber formerly used; and coal, oil, and electricity
have taken the place of much fuel wood. These substitutions are
increasing, as wood becomes more dear; and it is well that they
should. On the other hand, the use of wood is constantly widening
as the chemist and engineer discover new methods of converting
or fashioning it for modern requirements. Wood is now manufac-
tured into grain alcohol and artificial silk, even into baking powder
and electrical conduits. The field for wood-fiber products is con-
stantly enlarging. Notwithstanding the substitution of other ma-
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

terials and the curtailed use of wood for many of its old functions,
the total drain upon our forests thus far has not materially les-
sened. The danger lies not in reducing the use of wood where
satisfactory substitution is possible, but in the growing shortage
for many essential needs for which there are no substitutes. In
most of the industrial countries of Europe the per capita consump-
tion of wood is not diminishing but increasing; and the United
States can not expect permanently to follow a different course if it
is to hold its living standards and retain its industrial leadership.

One of the most essential constructive remedies is to reduce the
drain upon our forests by reducing the waste in the manufacture
and use of their products. The very abundance and cheapness of
virgin timber in the United States has bred wasteful methods of
logging, manufacture, and refabrication which are yielding but
slowly to the pressure of scant supply and high costs. The general’
application of even our present knowledge of waste elimination in
logging, milling, and refabricating lumber, in timber preservation,
in the conversion of wood into fiber products and the like, would
reduce the current drain upon our forests by 20 or 25 per cent.
And we still have much to learn before all the possibilities of econ-
omy in the use of our forests are fathomed. The elimination of
preventable losses from forest fires and from destructive insects and
tree diseases would save an enormous total of useful timber. A
cord of wood saved is equal to a cord of wood grown.- And one
of the most obvious things that should be done with all possible
dispatch is to conserve our existing timber supply to the last foot
by research in the conversion and use of forest products on an ade-
quate scale, accompanied by wide dissemination of its results
through the forest industries and forest consumers.

After everything else has been said, no solution of our forest prob-
lem is possible without the generous growing of trees. We must
come, in the last analysis, as every other country treading the same
path has come, to forestry as the necessary and economic employ-
ment of much of our land. ‘This solution is as complete as it is
inevitable. Intensive timber culture on the 470,000,000 acres of
forest land in the United States, timber culture on a par with that
of Germany, France, and Scandinavia, can produce a yearly crop
equivalent to more than all the wood which the United States now
consumes. There will be a margin of 20 per cent or more to take
care of the greater requirements of the future. The only question
is how quickly can this be brought to pass and how much national
suffering must be endured before a perpetual supply of timber is
assured on our own soil. National habits in the use of land and
its resources change slowly; and at best we must travel a slow and
painful road before the goal is reached.
TIMBER SUPPLY—GREELEY 455

Underlying this whole question is one of the outstanding facts
of the economic geography of the United States—namely, that one-
fourth of her soil remains to-day, after three centuries of settle-
ment and expanding agriculture, forest land. There is small pros-
pect that the area available for growing trees will be reduced ma-
terially, if at all, for many years to come. While the inroads of the
farm are continuing here and there, the great tide of forest clear-
ing for cultivation seems largely to have spent itself. For many
years indeed, the abandonment of farm land in forest-growing
regions of the older States has practically offset new clearing on the
agricultural frontier. Farm economists prophesy that still larger
acreages will be available for timber culture in the future than at
present.

Wholly aside from the need for timber, the problem of keeping
one-fourth of the soil of the United States productively employed
is one of no small urgency in the national economy. The idleness
of cut-over land, following the migration of the sawmills, has
already been a widespread cause of depopulation, decline in taxable
values, and general rural bankruptcy. In the busiest timber manu-
facturing regions of a few decades ago, there remains to-day over
80,000,000 acres of unproductive and unused land. No country can
afford such wastage.

Forestry not only is the only way to reestablish an adequate source
of timber in the United States. It is the only way to utilize a large
part of her land, to maintain a vigorous rural population with in-
dustries, communities, and good roads. On both counts, forestry
should become part and parcel of our program of land use.

: ¢. } clk 7. yi =
alia oe wate hte sees
~> uD eal? , : rs¢ 5 i

i a a ; eee } ‘ a he Seth ei a!
Riis eh : i Rate orn, 7: ey;

Pa, HORT ha
{ ay
a

soll

- Ja. iy uid 9G lik 4 aye

~ ‘
y q Tia es re) ae

ee ‘2 ris) <4
et hr)
of ‘ ») t
+. A es
i > ‘: id ab te 4 if : Ryn. ay
“ int , ait P aliscgsg ay i: a

NET i 4]

rire be4idi gh ISS al: aie Paihia fen j
¢ oe pa } ts iy ae ae eo a tere .
ST ester i a @ ety, =

iin WA: al Bea

~
srt 4 J Ue

f ; | epterred Purr ; ; nial } ‘ nip " : F 4 ia
i! ' i. <i i uf iI FS Os of 4 om my ee a 1c 0) ped hi rn,
} . a. ; ; oY Ps 44 ‘i |

2 J
ty) ‘4 P.
} ein ' Ave (4 . wt
ge be 7 a nar.
"Mie 7 y y ;
aye —T -
6 as - } ‘ Ai ‘fe
Dad - . re’
«- . g )
enugs JA4
7 PY ate Wg
, 7 ‘Ge ‘A
« “—
. hd ‘ »
] i i
Fi ul
] }
i x s Lyi hs
4
S a
\
J
if
iy
PLATE

ey

Greel

925

1

Report,

Smithsonian

‘LONGLEAF YELLOW PINE, VERNON COUNTY, LOUISIANA

2

1. LARCH TIMBER, KOOTENAI NATIONAL FOREST, MONTANA

st Service

Phot

Service

L

se
>

Photo
Z

PLATE

1ree

Sm

2. SECOND GROWTH PINES, CARROLL COUNTY, NEW
HAMPSHIRE

YOUNG STAND OF WESTERN HEMLOCK, SNOQUALMIE
NATIONAL FOREST, WASHINGTON

Forest Service

S.

Courtesy U.

D. Sterrett.

Photograph by W.

S. Forest Service

Courtesy U.

. Varela,

A.

Photograph by
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Greeley

§

:

4

z
7
|
4
2
3

aan pe me eee ee te

1. YOUNG STAND OF SLASH PINE, SLIDELL, LOUISIANA

Photograph by W. R. Mattoon. Courtesy U.S. Forest Service

2. LUMBER VESSELS, PORT BLAKELY, WASHINGTON

Photograph by Gifford Pinchot.

Courtesy U.S. Forest Service
THE HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY OF EARLY JAPAN’

By CarL WHITING BisHoP

Smithsonian Institution

[With 9 plates]

It is matter for congratulation, in view of the steadily growing
interest in the question, that the accumulation of evidence from
various sources begins at length to throw some definite hght on the
origin of the Japanese people. Much confusion has existed on this
subject hitherto, owing mainly to the fact that the work of investi-
gators along different lines had been insufficiently collated and cor-
related, while at the same time the methods of interpretation were
not altogether free from fault. A solution of the problem is not
to be attained by a study of conditions and events in the Japanese
islands alone. The same causes which have brought about the
various contacts, friendly or hostile, between Japan on the one
hand and eastern Siberia, Korea, Shantung, and the southeastern

hinese littoral on the other, during the past three decades, have
been at work without intermission ever since the first settlement of
man in this portion of the globe. The developments, political, so-
cial, economic, whose course we have followed with such close atten-
tion during the past few years are but the latest phase of a process
whose beginnings are lost in the darkness of prehistoric time. It is
thither that we must trace them if we would arrive at anything like
a right comprehension of the foundation upon which rests the na-
tional life of Japan.

FIRST CONTEMPORARY ACCOUNTS OF THE JAPANESE PEOPLE

Derived without exception froni Chinese sources? are our first
contemporary accounts of the Japanese people, 2,000 years ago.
The region at that time occupied by their various tribes embraced
not what we think of as the Japanese islands, but only their western-
most portions, together apparently with the southern end of the

*Read at the joint meeting of the Association of American Geographers and the
American Geographical Society, April, 1922. Reprinted by permission from the Geo-
graphical Review, vol. XIII, no. 1, January, 1923.

*See for an account of these, James Murdoch: A Wistory of Japan, Yokohama, 1910,
vol. 1, pp. 31 et seq. For accounts of what the Chinese writers have to: Say regarding
the eayly Japanese, see E. H. Parker: Ma.'Twan-Lin’s Account of Japan up to A. D. 1200,
Trans, Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 22, 1894, pp. 35-68; also, Albert Tschepe: Japans
Beziehungen zu China seit den iltesten Zeiten bis zum Jahre 1600, Yenchow-fu, 1907,

547
548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Korean peninsula and the large island known to us as Quelpart,
lying out in the Yellow Sea. As willbe seen, it was not until the sev-
enth century of our era that the Japanese became in reality wholly
an island people. Hence insularity was far from being the geo-
graphical factor of most weight in their early development. Of
vastly greater significance was the fact that during their formative
period they were in such close touch with the various civilized com-
munities of the continent.

PEOPLING OF THE JAPANESE ISLANDS

The effect of winds and currents was also much slghter than is
often claimed. The sail was still quite unknown in Far Eastern
waters in those prehistoric ages when the peopling of the Japanese
islands was going on, so that there was no way in which the monsoons
could exert any particular influence upon the course of migration.°
And the southern element, so clearly apparent in both the people
and their culture, came not from those equatorial regions whence
flows the Japan current but from a direction at right angles to it,
the seaboard of China, in days before Chinese civilization had yet
reached the coast. Those who speak of a Polynesian or a Malayan
strain in the Japanese ignore entirely the historical aspect of the
problem; the great Polynesian diffusion did not take place until
long after the emergence of the Japanese people, while the Malays
do not appear on the scene until later still. The real effect of the
southwest monsoon and the warm tropical current has been a climatic
one. To them it has been due that the type of culture developed
during prehistoric times in the southeastern coast lands of the con-
tinent could find in the southern and western portions of the Japanese
Archipelago those conditions of warmth and humidity requisite to its
survival and further development.

Of Paleolithic man in Japan there has so far appeared absolutely
no trace, and it is altogether likely that the islands, together with
the east of Asia generally, remained unpeopled until geologically
very recent times.

The earliest inhabitants of Japan of whom we have any knowledge
were the ancestors of the existing Ainu of Yezo (Hokkaido), who
at one time occupied the entire archipelago, remaining in undisturbed
possession during a period which may well have extended over
several thousand years.

20n the late introduction of the sail in Japanese waters, see B. H. Chamberlain
(transl.) : Ko-ji-ki, or Records of Ancient Matters, Trans, Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 10,
1882, Supplement ; reference in introduction, p. xxv; H. A. C. Bonar: On Maritime Enter-
prise in Japan, ibid., vol. 15, 1887, pp. 103-125; reference on pp. LOT andy wD Sy Wi sG.
Aston: An Ancient Japanese Classic (The Tosa Nikki, or Tosa Diary), ibid., vol. 3, part
II, January-June, 1875, pp. 121-130; reference on p. 124.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 549

ls (20 124 B

THE JAPANESE ISLANDS.
IN RELATION TO S NG fh
THE ASIATIC MAINLAND . (aK Btyauin

KILOMETERS
\

109 490

r 20 300

t
MILES

—<-—— Farly migration routes
@©-© ” culture foci Sf
Japanese culture area at close Ss
of Prehistoric Period ey
SSCS Successive Ainu-Japanese frontiers SS
{SJ over 600 ft. 2 g

WC

36

32:

\THE GEOGR. REVIEW, JAN. 1923

¥ic. 1—Map to illustrate geographical relations in early Japanese history. Numbers
indicate the main cultural foci: 1, northern Korea (the kingdom of Chao-hsien is
here shown in its later stages, earlier it extended across the Yalu basin); 2,
southern Korea; 3, Kyushu; 4, Izumo; 5, Yamato. Letters have reference to
successive Ainu frontiers. ‘The conquest and absorption of the Ainu had pushed
the Yamato frontier as far eastward as the Lake Biwa region (A) before the close
of the prehistoric period. The line B—B represents the next great advance, just
at the dawn of the historical period, and C—C the frontier as it existed about the
time of the loss of the continental possessions of the Yamato. The line D-D
was reached by the Japanese about the beginning of the eighth century, and the
occupation of the main island may be regarded as completed, in its broad out-
lines, by the close of the tenth century. Scale of map approximately 1: 22,500,000

76041—26——36
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

At length, probably far back in the first millennium before Christ,
if not indeed earlier still, there began a fresh invasion of the
Japanese islands, this time by peoples belonging to various branches
of the great Mongoloid stock, from eastern Siberia to the south
Chinese littoral, with probably in the latter case a slight Negrito
admixture. The result of the minglings in varying proportions be-
tween these newcomers and their predecessors forms to this day
the great bulk of the Japanese population.*

Finally, commencing not long before our era and recurring at
intervals for several centuries, there was a series of immigrations of
northern Mongoloids—Chinese and Koreans in the historical sense—
whose influence, physical but more particularly cultural, has been
largely confined to the upper strata of Japanese society.

THE ANCESTRAL AINU

The first of these races, that of the ancestral Ainu, seems to have
reached the Japanese islands in at least three successive waves, per-
haps separated by long intervals of time.’ Recent studies have shown
that it was divided into several subtypes, at least two of which appear
{o survive in the existing Ainu. That the language of this ancient
race was essentially that still spoken by its surviving representatives
in the island of Yezo is indicated by the fact that place names occur
all over the Japanese islands, from end to end, and possibly even in
the Loochoo group, which can only be explained in terms of Ainu
speech.®

Regarding the origin of this: primitive people we are still wholly
in the dark. Some have seen in them a kinship to the prehistoric
European race known as that of Furfooz-Grenelle. Language tells

4Regarding this question of the composition of the Japanese people. see the following:
K. Hasebe: Study upon the Human Bones found at Ko in the Second Excavation, Rept.
upon Archaeol. Research in the Dept. of Literature, Kyoto Imperial University, vol. 4,
1919-20: idem., The Excavation of the Shell Mound at Tsukumo, a Neolithic Ceme-
tery in the Province of Bitcht, ibid., vol. 5, 1919-20; H. Matsumoto: Notes on the
Stone Age People of Japan, Amer. Anthropologist, vol. 23 (N. S.), 1921, pp. 50-76;
Katsuro Hara: An Introduction to the History of Japan, New York, 1920, pp. 48 et seq. ;
H. ten Kate: Notes détachées sur les Japonais, Bull. et Mémoires Soc. d’Anthropol. de
Paris, ser. 5, vol. 9, 1908, pp. 178-195; E. Baelz: Prehistoric Japan, Ann. Rept. Smith-
sonian Inst. for 1907, 523-547; Frank Brinkley: Primeval Japanese, ibid., 1903, pp.
793-804.

5 See regarding these ancestral Ainu, in addition to the papers by Hasebe and Mat-
sumoto, already cited, N. G. Munro: Prehistoric Japan, Yokohama, 1911, pp. 37-292
and passim; also Hara, op. cit., pp. 31 et seq.

®Regarding Ainu place names in Japan, see B. H. Chamberlain: The Language,
Mythology, and Geographical Nomenclature of Japan Viewed in the Light of Ainu Studies,
Tokyo, 1887; also, Romyn Hitchcock: The Ainos of Yezo, Japan, Rept. U. S. Nat.
Museum for the year ending June 30, 1890, pp. 429-502; reference on p. 434.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 551

us nothing; for, aside from loan words from neighboring tongues,
the Ainu speech stands entirely isolated.? Physically there is no
evidence of connection with the Mongoloid family, save for such inter-
minglings as have taken place in relatively recent times. Many
investigators have regarded the Amur region of Siberia as that from
which this ancient race entered Japan. The fact should not be over-
looked, however, that individuals of Ainu type are by no means un-
known in Korea, while a possible relationship has also been suggested
between the Ainu and the pre-Dravidian tribes of India, or even with
the natives of Australia.

Perhaps we may say, in the light of all the available evidence, that
the few thousand Ainu still remaining, as well as the related stocks
inhabiting Japan in days prior to the advent of Mongoloid man,
represent an extremely ancient generalized human type from which
more than one of the wavy haired and heavily bearded races of
Kurope and southern Asia have been specialized.®

Of the culture of the ancestral Ainu, thanks to the somewhat ex-
tensive excavations of the past few years, we know considerably more
than we do of their origin. They were already in the Neolithic
stage as far back as they have been traced. They manufactured
polished stone implements and a highly interesting and very ornate
type of pottery, made, of course, without the aid of the potter’s
wheel. They seem to have derived part of their subsistence from the
cultivation of millet, although doubtless dependent mainly upon
hunting, fishing, and various wild vegetable products. Of domestic
animals, with the exception of the dog, they were entirely ignorant.
In summer they lived in rough huts and in winter in earth-covered
lodges constructed either partly or wholly underground. Dwelling
mainly on the coast and knowing how to make large dugout canoes,
they were fearless seafarers, hunting the whale as well as smaller
marine animals and, in later times, meeting the fleets of war boats
of the invading Japanese in fiercely contested naval combats from
which the newcomers by no means always emerged victorious.

Of their social, political, and military organization we can infer
but little. It seems clear, however, that in these respects they were
scarcely if at all behind the earlier comers of Mongolian extraction
who settled among them; for they were able to keep the latter pretty

7 Berthold Laufer: The Vigesimal and Decimal Systems in the Ainu Numerals: With
Some Remarks on Ainu Phonology, Journ. Amer. Oriental Soc., vol. 37, 1917, pp. 192-
208; reference on p. 205.

8 On the classification of the Ainu, see George Montandon: Notice préliminaire sur les
Ainou, Archives Suisses d’Anthropologie Générale, vol. 4, No. 3, 1921, pp. 233-246; refer-
ence on p. 242; also, A. F. Chamberlain: The Japanese Race, Journ. of Race Deyel., vol.
3, 1912-13, pp. 176-187; reference on p. 182.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

closely confined to the extreme western portions of the Japanese
Archipelago for many centuries. It was simply and solely the
stubborn geographical fact that the Mongoloids always had free
access to the civilizing influences emanating from the continent, while
the Ainu had not, that inevitably swayed the balance in favor of the
former, and in the long run sealed the fate of the aborigines as a
distinct ethnic entity.

EARLY MONGOLOID INVASIONS

We know from various sources that southeastern Asia prior to
the rise of the Chinese civilization was occupied by a race of Mon-
goloid stock, akin to the existing peoples of Indo-China and In-
donesia, whose original culture, of a generalized Neolithic type,
had taken on a distinctly southern and maritime aspect. That it
was in contact, however, with more northern regions is shown by
the occurrence both in Shangtung and in Japan of the grooved
stone ax, a type of implement found likewise in the North Pacific
area.’ The discovery again both in China and in Japan of the
peculiarly shaped objects known in the latter country as seki-bo, or
“stone clubs,” also indicates a former widespread community of
culture, extending in this instance even to the Ainu.

Socially, this southeastern Asiatic culture seems to have been
characterized by descent in the female line, by seasonal mating fes-
tivals, and, at least in the ruling families, by brother-and-sister
marriage.’° The economic life, based primarily upon fishing, with
doubtless some hunting, had been enriched before the close of the
Neolithic period by the acquisition of various food plants, culti-
vated with the aid of the hoe alone. Among methods of bodily
ornamentation were blackening of the teeth and tattooing. But
little clothing was worn, save in cold weather; and the habit of
promiscuous bathing, with a total indifference to bodily exposure,
was general. No domestic animals other than the dog and the fowl
appear to have been known. In the absence of metals, great use
was made of bamboo, although stone and bone were also utilized
in various ways. There is some reason to believe that the spear
rather than the bow was the weapon most commonly in use. As
befitted a culture essentially amphibious in type, large canoes were
made, each usually ornamented at the bow with the carved head

®On this question of the grooved ax, see Berthold Laufer: Jade: A Study in Chinese
Archaeology and Religion, Field Museum of Nat. Hist. Publ. 154 (Anthropol. Ser., vol.
10), Chicago, 1912, pp. 50 et seq.

Wor its former existence among the Japanese, see B. H. Chamberlain: Ko-ji-ki, Intro.,
pp. xxxylii and xlv; W. G. Aston: Shinto (The Way of the Gods), London, 1905, Dol.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 553

of a crocodile or an alligator.1t. The religion was one of nature
worship, with a strongly anthropomorphic trend and a highly in-
teresting body of folklore. Possibly as a result of the matrilineal
organization of society, the principle of reproduction and growth
received special veneration, and goddesses were particularly in evi-
dence. Ancestor worship, where found at all in this area, appears
only late and then as a consequence of the introduction, among the
higher classes, of a patriarchal type of family in imitation of the
Chinese. Practically all these culture elements are traceable in
Japan, some of them surviving to this day, while others have dis-
appeared only in comparatively recent times.

From the end of the promontory of Shangtung to the correspond-
ing projection on the opposite coast of Korea it is only a trifle over
a hundred miles—a stretch of sea easily negotiable by such in-
veterate sea rovers as were the Neolithic coast peoples of eastern
and southeastern Asia. The strait between Korea and Japan is al-
most exactly the same distance across; and here there are islands
where early voyagers could conveniently break their journey. It
seems likely for a number of reasons that the colonization of Japan
by the Mongoloid peoples of the neighboring continent took place
largely by way of Korea. Probably, however, even within the
Neolithic period a good deal of migration went on also directly
across the Yellow Sea. The distance here is something under 500
miles, with the lofty island peak of Quelpart, already mentioned,
forming a natural stepping-stone.

This migration of peoples into Japan, to be properly understood,
must be viewed as a phase of that great ethnic movement which
brought about the colonization by the so-called yellow-brown races
of so much of the enormous area extending from Japan on the
east to Madagascar on the west. When this process began, we are
as yet unable to say; but it seems not unlikely that one of the con-
tributing factors was the pressure generated by the slow expansion
coastward of the Chinese in the second and first milleniums before
Christ. The disturbances set up, for example, by the Chou conquest
of the Yellow River Basin, about the eleventh century before our
era, were felt far and wide and must have led to much shifting of

114 crocodile (Crocodilus porosus, or ‘‘ Estuarine crocodile’’) seems to have been
found anciently all along the southeastern Chinese coast at least as far north as the
Yangtze delta, although now practically exterminated; cf. Arthur Stanley: The Collec-
tion of Chinese Reptiles in the Shanghai Museum, Journ. North-China Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Soc., vol. 45, 1914, pp. 21-31, reference on p. 23.

A true alligator (Alligator sinensis), smaller than the American forms and rarely
exceeding 6 or 7 feet in length, still occurs in the Yangtze, although it is by no means
common ; cf. A, A. Fauvel: Alligators in China, ibid., vol. 18 (N. S.), 1878, pp. 1-36 f.
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

peoples both by land and by sea.1? Again, when the “barbarian ”
kingdom of Yiieh, corresponding roughly to the modern Chinese
province of Chekiang, overthrew the rival state of Wu, in the Yang-
tze embouchure region, in 473 B. C., the ruling class of the latter are
said to have made their escape to certain islands to the eastward,
which can hardly have been other than the western portion of the
Japanese groups.*®

The earliest distinct reference to Japan in the Chinese writings,
however, is one in the work known as the Shan Hai Ching, to the
effect that the northern and southern Wo are tributary to Yen, a
Chinese feudal kingdom at the head of the Gulf of Chihli.* Inas-
much as Yen ceased to exist. as an independent state in the year 226
B. C., this notice carries us back at least as far as the middle of the
third century before our era, and possibly even farther still, since
we know that Yen had been sending out exploring expeditions by
sea as early as the reign of King Wei (378-343 B. C.).1° We need
not infer, however, that an actual conquest by Yen of any part of
the Japanese islands ever took place. As is well known, it was long
an official convention in China that all outsiders resorting to her for
purposes of trade came to her as “tribute bearers.” It may there-
fore be fairly concluded from the passage in the Shan Hai Ching
that the two Wo peoples were in the habit of sending trading parties
to Yen which had the cognizance of its government in days when
foreign commerce was kept as far as possible a close state monopoly.

Precisely where the two Wo are to be sought, it is impossible to
say. Perhaps the northern branch inhabited the lower extremity
of the Korean peninsula;'® or, on the other hand, they may both
have dwelt in western Japan. That the southern, or “ Great,’ Wo
were located in Kyushu seems quite clear. For another name ap-
pled to their country by Chinese writers is that of Ye-ma-t‘ai.

“2 Compare C. W. Bishop: The Geographical Factor in the Development of Chinese
Civilization, Geogr. Rev., vol. 12, 1922, pp. 19-41.

18 Albert Tschepe: Histoire du royaume de Ou (1122-473 av. J.-C.), Variétés Sinologi-
ques, No. 10, Shanghai, 1896, p. 156, quoting from the T’ung-chien K’ang-mu. TParly
Chinese writers describe an enchanted isle in the Eastern Sea where the customs are
like those of the people of Wu; see E. H. Parker: Barly Japanese History, The China
Review, vol. 18, 1889-1890, pp. 212-248; reference on p. 214.

4 W. G. Aston: Early Japanese History, Trans. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 16, 18S8—
89, pp. 39-75; reference on p. 40 and in note 5. While the date of composition of the
Shan Hai Ching has not yet been settled beyond dispute, the weight of evidence points
toward the third or second century before Christ, although it undoubtedly contains much
earlier elements.

4 For the maritime explorations of Yen, see Edouard Chavannes, Mémoires Historiques
de Se-ma Ts’ien (5 vols., Paris, 1895-1905), vol. 8, pp. 436 et seq.; on the conquest of
Yen by Ch’in Shih Hwang-ti in B. C. 226, ibid., vol. 4, p. 150. Inasmuch as the state
archives of Yen, like those of practically all the rest of the ancient Chinese feudal states,
have been lost, we know nothing regarding the details of her maritime explorations.

# Cf. E. H. Parker: China: Her History, Diplomacy, and Commerce, from the BParliest
Times to the Present Day, 2d ed., London, 1917, p. 21.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP a0

This region, we are told, lay to the south of Korea—somewhere, that
is to say, in the island of Kyushu—and contained a hundred petty
kingdoms, all subject to the Ta Wo Wang, or great king of the Wo.
It is further described as a maritime region with a late Stone Age
culture, lying nearly due east of what is now the Chinese province
of Chekiang and enjoying so mild a climate that vegetables were
grown both winter and summer.

Now the winters of the Japanese Pacific seaboard are mild, it is
true, thanks to the Japan Current. But nowhere are they mild
enough to admit of the winter ripening of crops, save in certain
favored localities of Shikoku and Kyushu; and of Shikoku in this
connection there is no question. Yet several modern writers, in-
fluenced by the similarity in sound, have insisted upon identifying
Ye-ma-t’ai with the Japanese Province of Yamato, far away to the
eastward, in the heart of the mountainous peninsula forming the
boundary of the Inland Sea in that direction. It is hard to believe,
however, that when the careful and evidently well-informed Chinese
historians speak of a maritime region with an extremely mild winter
climate, lying far to the south, they really mean an inland Province
with a decidedly cold winter, situated in the distant east.

Nevertheless there may exist a connection between Ye-ma-t‘ai and
Yamato after all. Both the Chinese historians and their own legends
represent the primitive Japanese as located first of all in Kyushu,
where in fact the word “ Yamato” does actually occur, as a place
name in both Higo and Chikugo Provinces.* We know further
that this name has been applied by the Japanese people to them-
selves in a very definite way; Yamato damashil, for example, means
the spirit of the Japanese people, not that of the Province of Ya-
mato. Hence, it seems possible at least that ‘“ Yamato ” was the name
applied to themselves, while still in Kyushu, by the people whom the
Chinese usually referred to as the Wo and that when, as we shall
see, they transferred their seat of government to central Japan they
carried their name with them.

CULTURE AREAS IN THE KOREAN PENINSULA

The Korean peninsula during these times, just prior to and about
the beginning of the Christian era, was divided into two quite dis-

17H. Maspéro: Buil. Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient, vol. 9, 1909, pp. 593 et seq.;
N. Peri, ibid., vol. 10, 1910, p. 715, note 1; C. E. Maitre: La littérature historique du
Japon des origines aux Ashikaga, ibid., vol. 10, 1910, pp. 564-596; reference on p.
580, note 1.

8% Wrank Brinkley and Baron Kikuchi: A History of the Japanese People from the
Earliest Times to the End of the Meiji Pra, New York and London, 1912, p. 84; W. G.
Aston (transl.) : Nihongi, Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to A. D. 697,
Trans. and Proc. of the Japan Soc., Supplement 1, 2 vols., London, 1896, reference in vol.
1, p. 226 and note 8.

556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

tinct culture areas. In the north and extending over into what is
now southern Manchuria were various tribes with cultures basically
akin to those of eastern Siberia generally, though beginning to be
modified by influences both from the neighboring Chinese states and
from Central Asia.® Farther to the south the peninsula was the
home of the peoples called by the early Chinese writers the “ Three
Han.” While the precise boundaries of these are unknown, gen-
erally speaking the Ma-Han occupied the west and southwest of the
peninsula, with the Shén-Han to the east of them, on the Sea of
Japan, and the Pien-Han in the extreme south. These three Han
peoples were clearly recognized by their Chinese contemporaries
as quite distinct from their northern neighbors, while on the other
hand there evidently existed between them and the primitive Jap-
anese an extremely close kinship if not indeed an actual identity.
The same was also true, apparently, of the people of Quelpart Is-
land, where traces of southern contacts are unmistakable to this
day.*° This entire region, in fact, formed in prehistoric times a dis-
tinct culture area whose closest connections are to be sought in the
Chinese coast lands as they were before they came under the in-
fluence of Chinese civilization. It was only shortly before the be-
ginning of the Christian era that bands of refugees, fleeing from the
wars then devastating China, founded various states in southern
Korea in which they introduced that Late Bronze Age culture which
then characterized their own country. Shén-Han—later the kingdom
of Hsin-lo, or Silla—in spite of its comparative isolation with re-
gard to China, maintained especially close relations with that coun-
try, and the consequent superiority in culture which it enjoyed as
compared with its immediate neighbors is evident throughout its
history.

INTRODUCTION OF BRONZE AND IRON INTO JAPAN

There can be little doubt that it was from these newly founded
states of southern Korea that metal was first introduced into Japan.
The history of bronze in that country is peculiar. It can not, in

1 On the old Neolithie culture of eastern Asia, see R. and K. Torii: Etudes archéologi-
ques et ethnologiques: Populations primitives de la Mongolie Orientale, Journ. College of
Sei., Tokyo Imp. Univ., vol. 36, 1913-1915, art. 4; also review of same by H. Maspéro
in Bull. Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient, vol. 14, 1914, pp. 79-80.

20H. B. Hulbert: The Island of Quelpart, Bull. Amer. Geogr. Soc., vol. 37, 1905, pp.
396-408, passim.

For the probable Japanese affinities of the people of Quelpart, cf. BE. H. Parker in
Chinese Recorder and Missionary Journ., 1885, p. 303; also W. G. Aston, Nihongi, vol. 2,
p. 323, note 5.

A seventh-century king of T’am-na, as the island was then called, bore a name, Yuri-
toro, which has a decidedly Japanese sound.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 55

fact, be said that a true Bronze Age ever existed there at all.* The
records of the Later Han dynasty describe the people of Wo, early in
the Christian era, as still in the Neolithic stage of culture. This
statement regarding their ignorance of metal at that time is strik-
ingly confirmed by the discovery in various parts of western Japan,
in association with stone implements, of Chinese coins of the first
century of our era.*”? The histories of the Wei and Chin dynasties,
on the other hand, referring to the third and fourth centuries, men-
tion iron as known to the Wo. It would appear, therefore, that the
very brief and wholly exotic bronze culture which archeological
research has disclosed to us in Japan must have fallen somewhere
about the second century or so of our era.

Bronze remains in Japan are few and far betweeen, and such as
there are occur only in the western portion of the country. They are
quite unknown anywhere to the east of the Lake Biwa area, that
isthmian region of central Japan where the Ainu held back their
Mongoloid foes through so many centuries. Aside from ceremonial
objects, the known remains consist mainly of swords, daggers, and
arrowheads—all closely resembling well-known Chinese Bronze Age
types. The discovery of molds indicates that some casting was done
in Japan; but the raw material and a great proportion of the finished
articles seem to have been imported, either from Korea or even direct
from China, as is also suggested by the name, Aarakane, which may
mean either Korean or Chinese metal. Introduced only after its
use in China had already been largely superseded by that of iron,
it was but a short time before bronze was overtaken and displaced
by the later metal in Japan also. And so effectively was it eclipsed,
save of course for ornamental and ritual objects, that neither the
Kojiki nor the Nihongi,?* the two earliest Japanese historical works
that have come down to us, betray the slightest recollection of a
former Bronze Age; the use of copper arrowheads upon one occa-
sion being mentioned solely as something unusual.

But, if the influence of bronze upon the cultural development of
Japan was thus slight, with iron the case was far otherwise. His-
torical notices are wanting; but good grounds exist for thinking
that iron reached Japan merely as one element of an entirely dif-

2 The British Museum’s “‘ Guide to the Antiquities of the Bronze Age,’’ 1904, is hardly
exact in stating that the Japanese were already in the Late Bronze Age when they entered
the islands; they had long been in Japan when the knowledge of bronze was brought to
them. It was a case of a cultural, not a racial, migration.

2 Dr. K. Hamada, of the Kyoto Imperial University, in personal letters of July 10,
1917, and Dec. 20, 1920.

23 The Kojiki dates from 712 A. D., the Nihongi from 720. Chamberlain’s translation
of the former and that of the latter by Aston have already been cited. There is also
another of the later work, by Dr. Karl Florenz: Nihongi, “ Zeitalter der Gdotter,”
Tokyo, 1901.
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ferent material culture complex, partly Chinese and partly Central
Asiatic in origin,** which had taken form somewhere in Korea and
which was far higher than anything that the Japanese islands had
yet known. That this cultural invasion was the result of actual
conquest of any part of the country in a military sense can not be
categorically stated; but the presumption seems on the whole in
favor of something of the kind.

OTHER EVIDENCES OF INVASION FROM KOREA

The evidence of language, for one thing, appears to point in this
direction. Japanese belongs to an independent family, whose only
other members are Korean and Loochooan, and such indications
as there are point to central rather than to southern Asia as the
region of its origin.2> The most plausible conjecture—in the pres-
ent state of our knowledge it can be nothing more—would seem
to be that it reached Japan as the tongue of a relatively highly
civilized body of invaders, not necessarily large, penetrating south-
ward from the Korean peninsula and imposing their authority and
their language upon the less civilized tribes, presumably of mixed
Ainu and southern Mongoloid origin, whom they found in posses-
sion of the western portion of the islands. That such movements
were constantly recurring within Korea itself, we know from the
Chinese records. About 200 B. C., for example, when refugees
from China conquered the state of Chao-hsien, in southern Man-
churia, the king of the latter country escaped southward by sea
with several thousand of his followers and secured a footing for a
season in Ma-Han in the southwest of the peninsula, only eventually
to be beaten out again.2® That a similar raid, or series of raids,
during the latter half of the second century of our era or there-
abouts, should have been the means of introducing an Karly Iron
Age culture among the Wo, seems both possible and plausible.

The most conspicuous feature of this period in Japan, next to
the use of iron itself, was the practice of dolmen burial. A careful

24 Among the traces of central Asiatic influence upon the Early Iron Age civilization of
Japan are the reliance upon horse archers as the principal figting arm; the use of the
nari-kabura or “sounding arrow’’; the sacredness attached to certain horses, usually
piebald or albino; sword worship; divination by means of a deer’s shoulder blade; and
the custom of burying living retainers about the tumuli of kings and nobles.

Bashford Dean, in his “ Catalogue of the Loan Collection of Japanese Armor,” Metro:
politan Museum of Art, New York, Handbook No. 14, 1903, p. 28, points out that the
earliest metal armor of Japan, about 800 A. D., shows a relationship in many ways to
that of central and eastern Russia.

23 Legge (‘ Chinese Classics,” vol. 5, p. 74) makes the interesting suggestion that a
polysyllabie language may have been spoken among the pre-Chinese natives of Shantung.
As is well known, Chinese is monosyllabic and tonal.

26, H. Parker: On Race Struggles in Corea, Trans. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 18,
1890, pp. 157-228; reference on pp. 210 et seq.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 559

study of the available data, both historical and archeological, points
to Korea again, and probably to the northern rather than the south-
ern portion of the peninsula, as the source whence was introduced
into Japan this custom of burying the illustrious dead in mega-
lithic chambers covered by vast mounds of earth. Dolmens, in
general somewhat smaller and simpler in type than those of Japan,
occur in Korea in large numbers, particularly in the north. Far-
ther down in the peninsula their place tends to be taken by still
simpler stone cists; but these contain horse trappings, stone models
of metal swords and arrowpoints, and wheel-made pottery, all
closely resembling and in most cases absolutely identical with corre-
sponding remains in dolmen interments in Japan.

It is a matter of historical record, reinforced by archeological
evidence, that this type of burial came to an end in Japan about
the seventh or eighth century. Regarding the date of its beginning,
however, opinions have been widely at variance, although generally
speaking it has been placed far too early.

While it is true that bronze and even stone objects have been
found in connection with Japanese dolmen interments, that these
are mere funerary survivals is shown by the fact that the vast
majority of implements are of iron from first to last. The occur-
rence of horse trappings in these interments is of great significance.
The Chinese records are most explicit to the effect that the people
of Japan and of southern Korea at the beginning of the Christian
era and for at least a century or two after had neither horses nor
cattle. Hence, inasmuch as stirrups, bits, and other objects of iron
are recorded as occurring throughout the Dolmen Period, it follows
that the latter itself can only date back to the epoch of the intro-
duction of iron and the horse, somewhere apparently about the end
of the second century.

THE INTRODUCTION OF AGRICULTURE PROPER

To what extent the primitive Japanese in days prior to the advent
of metal depended upon planting for their subsistence we do not
know; but the Chinese accounts afford evidence of what is other-
wise intrinsically probable, that they possessed a hoe culture, carried
on in all likelihood largely if not exclusively by the womenfolk.
Under such a system, for several reasons, no very great growth of
population could ever take place. It was only the introduction of
true agriculture, which in southeastern Asia means the growing
of irrigated rice, that made possible the vast increase in numbers
and consequent economic and military strength essential to the
development of a powerful national entity. This great advance
in civilization was another element of that distinctive culture com-
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

plex characterising the Japanese Early Iron Age. That it, too, was
derived from Korea is indicated, among other signs, by the entire
absence in Japan of the water buffalo, the plow animal par excellence
in the irrigated rice culture of China, and the use in its stead of a
bullock of identical breed with that of the neighboring peninsula.
Such a revolution in the economic life of a people as that
implied by a change from a hoe to a plow culture has naturally its
social aspects also. In hoe culture it is almost invariably the
women who do the planting, while the men fish and hunt. No one
exchanges the excitement and activity incident to the career of a
hunter or a deep-sea fisherman for the monotonous drudgery that
falls to the plowman’s lot save under strong compulsion of some
sort. In other words, the bringing about of such a change almost
necessarily implies the relationship of master and serf. That such
a system obtained in the Japan of the Early Iron Age, we have
abundant evidence.*” This fact affords additional presumption of
conquest of some sort, whether from without or from within.

HISTORICAL EVIDENCE FROM CHINESE RECORDS

For such historical evidence as exists regarding this phase of
Japan’s cultural development we are still forced to rely almost
wholly on the Chinese records. Writing seems to have been applied
in Korea to the keeping of annals only toward the close of the
fourth century of our era, and in Japan somewhat later still, so that
what is told regarding earlier periods must rest solely upon oral
tradition and legend.*®

The histories of the Later Han and the Wei dynasties of China
inform us that for a period of 70 or 80 years, ending about
the close of the second century, the people of western Japan—from
what cause, is not stated—were in great turmoil, the disturbances
ending only with the rise of a powerful queen (almost certainly the
“empress” Jingd Koég6 of Japanese legend) who by her command
of magic extended her authority far and wide over the various tribes
of the Wo.*° She had, the accounts go on to say, no husband, but
was assisted in governing by her brother—apparently an only partly

27On this see, e. g., Hara, op. cit., pp. 80 et seq.

28 Maurice Courant, Stele chinoise du royaume de Ko Kou Rye, Journ. Asiatique, Ser.
9, vol. 11, 1898, pp. 210-238, states (pp. 223 et seq.)*that writing became habitually used
in western Korea in the last quarter of the fourth century. W. G. Aston, Trans. Asiatic
Soc. of Japan, yol. 16, 1888, p. 46, thinks Chinese writing (there is of course no ques-
tion of any other) was diffused in the various Korean kingdoms in the last half of the
same century. C. E. Maitre, op. cit., p. 584, says writing was definitely introduced into
Japan from Korea at the beginning of the fifth century.

29 See Murdoch, op. cit., vol. 1, pp. 86 et seq.
EARLY JAPAN—-BISHOP 561

understood instance of royal brother-and-sister marriage, a custom
which we know formerly existed in Korea also.*°

That a marked change of some kind, whether as the result of
actual invasion or not, really did take place at this time is further
shown by the fact that the Chinese records of the period sometimes
refer to “Great Wo” by the alternative name of “the Queen
Country,” although declaring specifically that in earlier times it
had been ruled over by kings. It seems to have been the case. that
these female rulers of the Wo derived their powers from a belief
that they in some special sense—most likely through actual physical
descent—represented the Sun Goddess, whose oracles and priestesses
they were.

It was about this same period, apparently, that there arose on the
main island, in what was later the province of Izumo, an independ-
ent kingdom which had especially close relations with the country of
Hsin-lo, or Silla, facing it across the Sea of Japan.*! It is perhaps
in this Izumo region that is to be sought the land of Ko-nu, mentioned
by contemporary Chinese writers as situated across the sea from Ye-
ma-t’ai (in Kyushu, as we have seen), and more to the eastward.
The people of Ko-nu, we are further told, although of the same race
as the Wo, were generally on terms of hostility with the latter, and
unlike them were ruled over by a king, who was in diplomatic cor-
respondence with the Chinese representatives in Korea.

Thus it seems clear that beginning about the latter half of the
second century western Japan was invaded from Korea by a de-
cidedly high culture characterized by the use of iron, the manu-
facture of wheel-made pottery, the possession of domestic animals,
the custom of fighting on horseback, the practice of true agriculture,
and the burial of the illustrious dead in dolmens covered by huge
mounds of earth. It is possible that the bow played a part in the
extension of this culture, for the original Mongoloid settlers of
western Japan, like their kinsmen of the Chinese littoral and so
many of the modern peoples of Indo-China and Indonesia, appear
to have been spearmen rather than archers.

Of the substitution of male rule for female rule among the Wo
there is no historical record. But that it took place not long after
the time of the great queen just mentioned and that it was due to
the growing influence of Chinese ideas may be held as certain. The
former divine queens seem to have survived merely as chief
priestesses of the Sun cult, while the actual power was henceforth
vested in the male heads of the ruling clan, the historical mikados,

80 Hulbert, op. cit., p. 81.

On the contact between Hsin-lo and the Izumo region of Japan, see Aston, Nihongi,

vol. 1, p. 166 and note; W. . Griffis: Corea, the Hermit Nation, New York, 1882; refer-
ence in Preface, p. v; Baelz, op. cit., p. 525.
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

also, of course, descendants of the Sun Goddess and therefore god-
kings in their own persons.

It was during this same period of her Early Iron Age that Japan
received, through Korea but eventually from China, two fresh cul-
tural acquisitions, whose importance it would be difficult to exag-
gerate. These were the Buddhist faith and the art of writing. The
story of the way in which these additional factors in the national
life came to be introduced can not be gone into here. But it will
readily be seen how very great must have been their influence as uni-
fying and civilizing agents among a congeries of tribes dwelling
upon a relatively low culture plane and ruled over by a turbulent,
disunited, and illiterate aristocracy which had as yet learned to pay
but small respect to the authority of the central government.

EXTENSION OF JAPANESE OCCUPATION OF THE MAIN ISLAND

The fact that bronze implements have been found only to the west-
ward of the Lake Biwa region would suggest that the Mongoloid
advance at the expense of the Ainu got no farther than that point
until after the introduction of iron. It is possible, however, that even
during the Neolithic period independent bands of the invaders may
have cruised in canoes farther eastward, planting settlements along
the coast but leaving the central mountain ranges in the hands of
the aboriginal population. We know that it was by this method of
coastwise advance in large fleets of war boats that the Japanese
effected the conquest of much of the northern part of the main island
in the full ight of the historical period, during the seventh and
eighth centuries, and it must have been by a similar process that they
acquired a lodgment in the islands in the first place.*? At all events,
there is some evidence, slight though it be and mainly of a legendary
character, that the coastal plains as far east as Tokyo Bay were
already occupied by settlements of peoples akin to but independent
of the Yamato when the latter established their supremacy there.
The Yamato-dake story, for example, pure myth though it be in the
main,** suggests this; for in it that hero appears as warring against
peoples kindred to his own until he passes the mouth of Tokyo Bay
(traveling by sea, be it noted) ; it is only beyond that point that he is
represented as coming in contact with the Ainu.

It seems certain, at any rate, that the efforts of the Yamato to
extend their authority over eastern Japan began very soon after their
occupation of the Lake Biwa region. For the Japanese annals, just
now beginning to have some slight historical value, mention a defeat

® Regarding these boat expeditions, see Aston, Nihongi, vol. 2, pp. 252 and 263; also,
Hara, op. cit., p. 110.

% Wor the Yamato-dake myth see Aston, Nihongi, vol. 1, pp. 200 et seq., B. H. Cham-
berlain, Ko-ji-ki, pp. 201 and 205 et seq.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 563

inflicted at the end of the fourth century upon one of their war parties
by the Ainu of the rugged peninsular region between Tokyo Bay
and the Pacific Ocean. And 80 years or so later—in the year 478
A. D., to be exact— the Chinese records inform us that the emperor
then reigning, Shun Ti, of the Early Sung Dynasty, received a
letter °4 from the ruler of the Yamato, stating that his father had
conquered toward the east 55 states of the Maojén, or “hairy men”
(the Ainu, of course), and on the west 65 states of the I-jéen, or
“barbarians.” Who these latter were is uncertain, but they were
perhaps most likely fragments of the pre-Yamato population of
western Japan, of mixed Ainu and Mongoloid descent, which, dwell-
ing in mountainous areas or outlying islands, had managed hitherto
to escape conquest by the Yamato. Southern Kyushu in particular
we know long remained independent and hostile. ‘The almost entire
absence of dolmens here indicates the slight control exercised by the
Yamato over this region during their Early Iron Age, and this in-
ference is most abundantly confirmed by their own records.

LOSS OF CONTINENTAL TERRITORY

But, though the influence of the mikados was being strengthened
during this period in Japan proper, as much can not be said with re-
gard to their relations with the continent. During much of the
Early Iron Age western Japan and particularly northern Kyushu
seem to have been far less closely allied in feeling to the Yamato
region than they were to southern Korea. At times this conscious-
ness of kinship actually took the form of alliances between the
peoples on the two sides of the Strait of Tsushima for waging war—
“rebellion ” in the official Japanese phraseology—against the divine
Yamato rulers of central Japan. It was only by great efforts that
the latter were able to maintain even the loosest control over their
kinsfolk of the lower end of the peninsula.?° Geography, in the
shape of the hundred miles of sea between Japan and Korea, was
working as inexorably against them as did the English Channel
against the retention of Normandy by the English kings—in many
ways a closely parallel! case.

Finally, in the latter half of the seventh century the age-long
friendship between the kingdom of Hsin-lo, the ancient Shén-Han,
and China, then under the sway of the powerful T’ang Dynasty,

* Thus showing that the Japanese were now beginning to conduct their diplomatic
correspondence in writing, if indeed they had not already been doing so for a century
or two; but the art remained for long a secret confined to certain hereditary guilds of
Chinese or Korean extraction, whose members thus acquired vast influence with the rulers
and great nobles of the Yamato whom they served as scribes.

* On the dominance of Japan in Korea during the early centuries of the Christian era,
see Kanichi Asakawa: The Early Institutional Life of Japan. Tokyo, 19038, pp. 80 et seq.
564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

culminated in a joint attack upon the Yamato by sea and land,
which resulted in their total expulsion from the peninsula. The
people of Quelpart, of Japanese or closely kindred stock, kept up
for several centuries a quasi-independent existence as the kingdom
of T’am-na but eventually gravitated toward Korea, geographical
propinquity proving stronger than the ties of race and culture.

At the time, no doubt, this loss of the continental portion of their
territory must have seemed a catastrophe of the direst sort. In the
long run, however, it proved of incalculable benefit.2¢ For while
receiving just as formerly the culture stimuli emanating from the
continent, the Yamato no longer had to dissipate their energies in
efforts to retain hold of regions on the mainland which were stead-
ily growing farther apart from them in feeling and culture. Thus,
able to give their undivided attention to their home problems, they
set to work in earnest to obliterate the last remaining frontiers
within the Japanese islands themselves.

FURTHER CONSOLIDATION OF THE INSULAR DOMAIN

The independent communities still surviving in the west, of which
those mentioned as existing in southern Kyushu were the chief, were
absorbed in short order. The last rising of the old independent
stock of southern Kyushu took place at the end of the seventh cen-
tury, barely a generation after the expulsion of the Yamato from
their last foothold on the continent. But the separatist tendencies
of the region, fostered by its geographical configuration, have been
manifest throughout its history, the last instance being that of the
famous “ Satsuma rebellion” of 1877. ;

The subjugation of the still unconquered Ainu of the north and
east presented a far more serious task. The mass of the people of
western Japan, hardly touched by the new cultural influences from
the continent, save in so far as these facilitated their exploitation by
their rulers, had long since sunk to the status of abject predial
serfdom and had lost such military virtues as they may once have
possessed. The aristocracy, we know, were splendid warriors,
gorgeously equipped and accustomed to fighting on horseback with
longbow and sword. When called out en masse they no doubt
proved a most effective if somewhat undisciplined militia. But aside
from the personal guards of the rulers and great nobles, recruited
largely from the Ainu and the pre-Yamato populations of southern
Kyushu, there was no standing army and consequently no force
ready at all times to take the field on short notice against the
sudden incursions of the unconquered aborigines. These fierce

86 ara, op. cit., pp. 122 et seq.
~

EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 565

fighters were by no means content merely to act on the defensive.
Throughout their history as an independent people they evinced an
entire willingness to meet their enemies quite halfway. Their usual
method of waging war was to strike the settlements of the foe un-
awares and then be off again with their booty and captives, leaving
behind them a trail marked in blood and fire, before troops could be
brought up against them. The attitude of the bulk of the Japanese
‘peasantry toward these savage raiders is vividly reflected in a
very ancient song, attributed to the mythical hero Jimmu, which
says that one Emishi (i. e., Ainu) is a match for a hundred men.

THH AINU FRONTIER

It was clearly for strategic reasons that the Yamato had moved
their seat of government in the first place from Kyushu to the fron-
tier region about Lake Biwa. For it was there that Ainu incursions
were most to be dreaded and there, too, that they could be most easily
repelled before they had penetrated far into the country. That such
a radical change of base should have been made, in spite of the very
great importance which we know the Yamato rulers attached to the
maintenance of their hold on southern Korea, gives us a measure of
the anxiety with which they regarded the “Ainu question.” Only a
motive of the utmost cogency could have induced them to remove
so far from the position close to the Strait of Tsushima which they
had hitherto occupied.

The settlement of the Ainu problem was at length effected; but it
was only by dint of the hardest fighting, protracted through cen-
turies. The possession of iron weapons and of a force of mounted
archers accustomed to maneuver at a gallop over rough ground
must have given the Yamato a great advantage over the Ainu in the
open field. But as the jlatter were slowly pushed back northeastward
they absorbed more and more of the civilization of their enemies
with a consequent increase in their own powers of resistance, while
the Yamato armies, on the other hand, advancing both by land and
by sea, met with ever greater difficulty in getting up their supplies
from the cultivated districts far in their rear. Moreover, it was
not enough merely to occupy the lowlands near the coast with
blockhouses and military colonies. The central mountain ranges
had also to be invaded and their inhabitants dispossessed or sub-
dued, if there was to be any security for the always lengthening
lines of communication. In view of the overwhelming difficulties
attending the task, it is no wonder that it was so long of accomplish-
ment; while the dogged stubbornness with which the centuries-long

76041—26——_37
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

battle was waged on both sides says a vast deal for the fighting quali-
ties of Ainu and Yamato alike.

For some reason progress was much more rapid on the west than
on the east coast, so that about the close of the seventh century the
Yamato had after a fashion occupied the territory along the Sea of
Japan nearly up to the thirty-ninth parallel. On the Pacific side the
Ainu were then holding out along a line roughly corresponding to
latitude 37°. N. The next few campaigns pushed the frontier back,
on the west, as far as a spot a trifle south of latitude 40° N., where
the Akita fort was built. From this point the boundary extended in
a general southeasterly direction across the central mountain ranges
to the Pacific, reaching the coast about in latitude 38° 40’ N., some
50 miles or so north of the Taga fort, whose overgrown earthworks
still stand, not far from the present city of Sendai.*

At this point, in the latter half of the eighth century, the still
unconquered Ainu made a desperate effort to regain their lost ground.
They took the Taga fort, massacred its commander and garrison, and
pushed far down the eastern coastal plain toward that Tokyo Bay
region from which their ancestors had been driven something like
300 years before.

But the Yamato government, albeit with difficulty, kept large
forces in the field year after year, while the aborigines, barbarians
as they were, aided in their own subjugation by indulging in suicidal
wars among themselves. It was fortunate for them that the Yamato,
before the loss of their continental possessions left them free to at-
tend to their internal problems, had adopted the peaceful and humane
creed of Buddhism with its aversion to bloodshed. For, in obedi-
ence to the behests of their faith, they carried on no mere war of
extermination but made a genuine effort to civilize and assimilate the
conquered natives and to place them on the same footing with the
other subjects of the Mikado. At first prisoners of war were dis-
tributed in the western part of the islands in small bodies and were
given rations until they should learn to become self-supporting; while
later on the policy was adopted of organizing them into villages on
the same basis as the rural population elsewhere. Thousands of them,
first-class fighting men as they were, accepted enrollment in the
Japanese armies for service against their still unsubdued kinsmen.
Offices and gifts were bestowed on surrendered chieftains, while
missionaries, in some cases themselves converted Ainu who had taken
holy orders, made every effort to win the aborigines to the Buddhist
faith.

On the successive old Yamato-Ainu frontiers, see Hara, op. cit., pp. 67 et seq., 86
et seq., 104, 119, 147 et seq.; N. G. Munro, Primitive Culture in Japan, Trans. Asiatic
Soc. of Japan, vol. 34, Part II, 1906, pp. 1-198; reference on p. 166; idem, Prehistoric
Japan, p. 597.
EARLY JAPAN—BISHOP 567
FINAL CONQUEST OF THE AINU

Finally by the close of the tenth century the subjugation of the
Ainu of the main island could be regarded as accomplished. But it
was long before they were completely assimilated. They rose again
and again, even as late as 1332, while a few villages of them were still
to be found about the shores of Aomori Bay so recently as the eigh-
teenth century.

That portion of the race living in Yezo, Sakhalin, and the Kuriles
retained its independence for some time longer. The last serious
effort of the Yezo Ainu to expel the Japanese occurred in the latter
part of the seventeenth century, when with their primitive weapons
they made a brave but hopeless fight against their foes clad in iron
armor and equipped with matchlock guns and keen steel swords.

As a distinct people the Ainu have almost wholly disappeared, with
the exception of the few thousands still living in the island of Yezo.
Nevertheless they form a very large element in the racial composi-
tion of the Japanese nation to this day.**

As usual in cases where crossing has occurred between Mongoloid
and other races, the external physical characteristics of the former
have tended to be dominant, although apparently the same does not
hold to quite the same extent regarding skeletal traits. Traces of
Ainu mixture are visible throughout the country, from the Loochoos
and Satsuma in the far south to Yezo on the north, while in isolated
regions like the mountain fastnesses of Kozuke, Shinano, and
Kchigo Provinces in the center of the main island, there still occur
surprising numbers of pure Ainu types. Particularly strong was
this strain among the former Samurai, or knightly class, in large
part descended from the Ainu incorporated in the Japanese armies
of the eighth and ninth centuries.*® To this inheritance it was that
the haughty two-sworded man of later times owed his less Mongo-
loid features, ruddier complexion, and heavier beard, to say nothing
of his splendid fighting qualities.

It would be difficult to exaggerate the influence which the Ainu
have exerted over the historical development of the Japanese Em-
pire. For to the long centuries of warfare which their subjugation
entailed were due the rise of that hereditary warrior class and that
system of military government, without which Japan would almost

88 On the large Ainu part in the modern Japanese racial complex, see Kanichi Asakawa:
The Origin of the Feudal Land Tenure in Japan, Amer. Hist. Reyv., vol. 20, 1914-15, pp.
1—23; reference on p. 17; Matsumoto, op. cit., pp. 73, 75 et seq.; David MacRitchie: The
Ainos, Internationales Archiy fiir Ethnographie, vol. 4, Supplement, 1892, passim;
Romyn Hitchcock, op. cit., p. 450.

N. G. Munro (Prehistoric Japan, p. 634) says the religion of the Yamato was much
more deeply influenced by the Ainu than is generally supposed.

® Asakawa, Origin of Feudal Land Tenure, p. 17; Matsumoto, op. cit., pp. 75 et seq.
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

certainly have vegetated into a second Korea—in other words, a
feeble imitation of China, without either the will or the force to
think and act for herself. It is pleasant to be able to state, from
personal observation, that the Japanese authorities are doing all
that they can to elevate and educate the remnant of the Ainu, and
assist them to a point where they can take their proper place as
civilized men and women in the world of the twentieth century.

CONCLUSION

The physical and cultural traits which we regard as peculiarly
Japanese may, then, be traced to three separate and distinct geo-
graphical areas.*° Basically, both in race and in the fundamentals
of their culture, the Japanese are most closely akin to the ancient
inhabitants of the Asiatic coast lands during the Neolithic period.
Superimposed upon this foundation and affecting mainly the ruling
classes, was that higher type of civilization which began to reach
Japan about the beginning of our era, and which was accompanied
by a certain infusion of fresh blood, largely from Korea but also
to a not inconsiderable extent direct from China. Finally, to the
long contact with the ancient aborigines were due the addition of
a most valuable element in the racial complex and the acquisition
of that fighting spirit, with its traditions of unflinching loyalty
and self-sacrifice, that has been so largely responsible for the rise
of Japan as a modern power.

40H. J. Fleure (Geographical Factors, Helps for Students Series, No. 44, London,
1921) makes the interesting suggestion that it may be the imperfect accord of widely
separated inheritances in the same individual that has given the Japanese the sensitive-
ness to climatic differences which has hitherto stood in the way of their succeeding as
colonists in Formosa or Sakhalin.
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE |

AINU MAN AND WOMEN AT PIRATORI, ISLAND OF YEZO; THE MAN HAS
CEREMONIAL HEADDRESS AND MUSTACHE LIFTER. THE DESIGNS ON
THE CLOTHING ARE DISTINCTIVE OF THIS RACE
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop

1. OLD AINU MAN OPERATING CANOE FERRY IN INTERIOR OF ISLAND OF YEZO.
THE AINU, IN COMMON WITH OTHER NORTH PACIFIC PEOPLES BOTH OF ASIA

AND OF AMERICA, WERE EXPERT CANOEMEN

2. KOREAN BULLFIGHT. THESE FIGHTS, ORIGINALLY OF RITUAL SIGNIFICANCE,
SEEM TO HAVE FORMED AN ELEMENT OF THE IRRIGATED RICE CULTURE
COMPLEX, IN ASSOCIATION WITH WHICH THEY ARE FOUND FROM JAPAN TO

MADAGASCAR
WOY4 GAONGOYLN| ‘LEN diqG 39Y¥v] AO AIV HLIM DNIHSI4 SSANVdVf 4O SAdAL

WNIHD IWYLNAD GNV NYSHLNOS

€ alvid doysig—'Sz6l ‘Yoday uBluosyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE 4

|. AINU VILLAGE. NOTE PILES OF FIREWOOD PROVIDED

AGAINST THE BITTERLY COLD WINTER. THE AINU
FORMERLY USED EARTH-COVERED DUGOUTS AS COLD-
WEATHER RESIDENCES, WHILE THEIR STOREHOUSES
ELEVATED ON PILES POINT TO CONTACT WITH SOUTH-
ERN INSULAR PEOPLES

2. TYPE OF PRIMITIVE JAPANESE HUT SURVIVING AMONG
MODERN PEASANTRY. PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF
THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE 5

se

N a

|. FAMOUS SHRINE OF THE SUN GODDESS AT ISE, IN WHICH
Is PRESERVED THE PRIMITIVE JAPANESE TYPE OF HUT,
ALLIED TO SOUTHERN !NSULAR FORMS, VERY DISTINCT
FROM THE CHINESE STYLE OF ARCHITECTURE IMPORTED
IN HISTORIC TIMES. PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF THE
FREER GALLERY OF ART

2. VIEW OF NARA, ONE OF THE CAPITALS OF JAPAN IN THE
EIGHTH CENTURY, SHOWING ARCHITECTURE OF CHINESE
BUDDHIST ORIGIN
WY Jo Ala[BEH J901q ey JO Asoqyinoo Aq ydeRasojoy gq

SAWIL SAILINIYd NI SV LSNE ‘HYOM
giai4q S3HL SO LYVd 3ADYV] VW WHOsY4Sd
THLS NVdVf NI NAWOAA ‘VSHOM{ AO AVM
AG SdVHYdd ‘WNIHOD IWYLNSOD GNV HLNOS
WOYS GSONGOYLN]| ‘SYNLIND 391Y ASANVdVP ‘S

9 3LW1d

TWHOLLIF
ASANIHD NYSHLNOS 3HL OL 3ISVaOVHL
Ww 3YV ONIHLOI9 4O 3TALS GNV ‘30H
‘30vVdS ‘LVOONIVY ‘LVH 3HL ‘SLOOHS 008
-WVQ 31dIGQ ONIDDIG SLNVSV3d 3SSNVdvP

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE 7

|. TYPICAL JAPANESE TORRENT BED IN WINTER. OWING TO THE ALMOST
TOTAL LACK OF NAVIGABLE RIVERS, THE ORIGINAL JAPANESE CONQUEST
WAS LARGELY CONFINED AT FIRST TO SEABOARD PLAINS ACCESSIBLE TO
THEIR FLEETS OF WAR BOATS

2. LAKE HAKONE, IN CENTRAL JAPAN, WHERE THE ORIGINAL AINU LONG
HELD BACK THE JAPANESE INVADERS UNTIL OUTFLANKED BY SEA, AS
HAPPENED AGAIN AND AGAIN, UNTIL THE PROCESS OF CONQUEST HAD
BEEN COMPLETED
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE 8

|. WINTER SCENE IN THE NIKKO RANGE, PART OF THE CENTRAL BACKBONE OF
JAPAN, IN WHOSE FASTNESSES AINU TYPES STILL SOMETIMES OCCUR IN
GREAT PURITY

2. LOOKING NORTH FROM THE SCARP OF THE ANCIENT JAPANESE HILL FORT
OF TAGA TOWARD THE HILLS STILL HELD BY THE ABORIGINAL AINU IN
THE EIGHTH CENTURY
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Bishop PLATE 9

INSCRIBED STONE OF THE EIGHTH CENTURY AT THE TAGA FORT, NEAR THE
ANCIENT AINU-JAPANESE FRONTIER, A FEW MILES NORTH OF THE MODERN
CITY OF SENDAI
bye

7
a
ae

mente

ay

aes?

Jes

rh

. vy
A
- al 5
ry a
“/ f
'
.)
i LI Ot
h pats
Pie te

‘

THE EXCAVATIONS OF THE SANCTUARY OF TANIT
AT CARTHAGE?

By Byron KHUN DE PROROK

Codirector of the Carthaginian excavations.

[With 4 plates]

The Sanctuary or Temple of Tanit is the first Punic ruin to be
found “in situ” in Carthage. Father Delattre has uncovered many
Punic tombs at Carthage, but the richly crowded area “of the
Temple of Tanit,” now being exhumed, is the first trace of Car-
thaginian remains of the Phenician period in the original position.
The discovery was made by two amateur archeologists of ‘Tunis,
Mr. Icard and Mr. Geilly, and the discovery was at once communi-
cated to the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres by J. B.
Chabot, membre de [’Institut, and expert in the Phoenician Lan-
guages.

The ruin was found in one of the most common ways in oriental
countries—that is, by tracing the selling of antiquities by the local
Arabs. A beautiful Punic inscription was being sold when Mr.
Geilly asked whence it came. He was told by the Arab that he
had found it in the mountains above Carthage, and for two weeks
a search was made in the indicated place. These indications were
a ruse so that the Arab could go on peacefully digging up the
antiquities in secret and selling them at once to tourists and col-
lectors. One night the Arab was followed and was seen by the
light of the moon to be digging on his hands and knees in a hole.
He was caught red-handed, with 10 votive inscription stones near
by, and the famous Sanctuary of Tanit was at last located. From
the historian Polybius we know that the Temple of Tanit and of
Baal Hammon stood in the vicinity of the ancient forum not far
distant from the ancient ports. The site of this recent discovery
corresponds with the ancient historian’s position of the temple, and
strangely enough this discovery is situated on the spot called “ Sa-
lammbo,” about 100 yards from where the ancient ports are sup-
posed to have stood. Gustave Flaubert, who wrote the greatest
historical novel ever produced in France, would have been pleased
if he had lived to know that the temple he had so vividly described

1Reprinted by permission from Art and Archeology, Vol. XIX, No. 1, January, 1925.
569
570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

was being brought back to the civilized world. In digging up this
temple this winter, we had constantly in our minds the vivid descrip-
tion of the temple that makes one of the most wonderful episodes of
Flaubert’s “ Salammbo.”

The excavation was started by the “ Services des Antiquités,” and
this year we were able to procure the site after many months of
deliberation and difficulties on the part of the owners of the coveted
piece of land.

The sanctuary is remarkable in being composed of four distinct
levels, floors of votive altars, inscriptions, and vases of many new
forms.

Each level corresponds with a different period of Carthaginian
history. The sanctuary dates from the foundation of Carthage,
which is lost in the night of time, but it is only in the termination
of the present excavations that perhaps some clue to the real date of
the foundation of Carthage may be found. Most historians place
the legendary foundation of Carthage by Dido at about 850 B. C.
With the termination of the present excavation we hope not only
to solve the mystery of ancient Carthage, but also to solve the prob-
lems of the great Egyptian influence we have found there, of the
practice of human sacrifice, and many other historic questions.
The sanctuary existed until the destruction of Carthage by Scipio
146 years B. C. From it we are learning new indications of the re-
ligions and customs of a lost empire. The site of the city of Hanni-
bal and Hamilcar has long been a mystery, but the tombs discovered
by Father Delattre have shed certain light on the great people who
once challenged Rome for the mastery of the ancient world. But
nearly everything is yet to be achieved in Carthage, as regards the
scientific exploration of the vast antique metropolis of Africa, that
once had a population of a million inhabitants and whose area is
said to have been 24 square miles.

The Temple of Tanit is our first clue to the Phcenician city that
disappeared from the face of the earth during the dreadful con-
flagration when the city burned for 17 days and the smouldering
ruins were plowed through by the revengeful Romans. The ex-
cavation is producing thousands of beautifully painted urns, con-
taining rare and precious amulets and other treasures, and elegantly
sculptured inscriptions of the days of Hannibal, and hundreds of
strange votive altars unknown as yet to archeology. Each time
that this great cemetery was filled with offerings it was covered
over with a layer of protecting clay and refilled.

HUMAN SACRIFICES AT CARTHAGE

It is hoped that the completion of the excavation of the “area”

of the Temple of Tanit may lead to the discovery this coming season
SANCTUARY OF TANIT—PROROK 571

of the plan of the temple itself. One of the greatest problems of
this discovery is the solving of the historic question of the human
sacrifices of the Carthaginians. The excavation has already yielded
thousands of urns filled with the ashes and bones of newly born
children and small animals. It is thought that the animal bones
were those of animals substituted secretly by parents for their chil-
dren. The relics have been examined by the Pasteur Institute and
found to be largely those of infants.

In six weeks we dug out hundreds of vases, sometimes averaging
50 a day. Nearly all the vases contained ashes of children and we
are driven to the conclusion that on this site there were very dreadful
holocausts in antiquity.

Diodorus Siculus mentions that in the year 311 B. C. as many as
300 people were sacrificed during one ceremony. The Carthaginians
were abhorred by the ancients because of this terrible custom of
“ passing their people through fire ” as in biblical days. One of the
most remarkable conditions of a peace treaty ever recorded was that
made by Gelon of Syracuse on behalf of the Greeks. After defeat-
ing 300,000 Carthaginians at the great battle of Himera, they de-
manded one single condition, and that was the abolition of the sacri-
fice of children at Carthage. Darius, King of the Persians, sent an
ambassador all the way to Carthage demanding the abolition of
human sacrifices and also the eating of little dogs, a great Pheenician
delicacy which was considered an abomination in those days.

The awful cult of Moloch continued in the reign of Tiberius,
according to the great apologist Tertullian. This Emperor had the
priests who performed these “ abominations of the Sidonians ” cruci-
fied in the Temple Gardens where they had performed these ritual
sacrifices.

Saint Augustine also spoke of these cruelties, which he said con-
tinued even in his day, the sacrifices being made then to Saturn
instead of to Baal Ammon. This is a dreadful period of human
degeneracy that we are now unearthing in the famous Temple of
Tanit, but such is archeology! In one spot we may be uncovering
works of priceless art and traces of the advancement of civilization,
and in another spot the contrasting decadence shown in the revela-
tion of such a cult as found at Aphrodisium and at Carthage in
Africa.

THE URNS DISCOVERED IN THIS YEAR’S CAMPAIGN
(The excavations of floor A)

The first ruin to be located in the excavation was what seemed to
be the Roman Temple of Saturn built above the Punic ruin below.
We give it this name from a votive inscription found among the
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

débris of ruined walls. ‘This inscription bore the name of Baal
Saturn. Beneath these walls was found the first layer of Punic ob-
jects. The Roman conquerors had built right onto the field of votive
offerings and other archeological treasures, but had disturbed as
little as possible the religious “area.” It must be remembered that
Rome rebuilt Carthage about 100 years after its destruction and it
became in a short time the second city of the Roman Empre.

Floor A is at a depth of about 514 to 6 meters. The excavation
is extremely difficult at the greatest depth because of the continuous
infiltration of sea water. This floor contains vases of very deli-
cate workmanship of graceful tulip form. Therein were con-
tained finely worked amulets of the Egyptian deities mingled with
the bones and ashes of children from new-born infants to the age
of 12 years.

Below this floor we discovered a very important silex of the Neo-
lithic age, a significant find, proving that prehistoric man had also
made the peninsular of Carthage his abode. This adds a new field
of research in the already well-stocked one of Carthaginian arche-
ology.

Floor A contains many rough stones placed in the form of small
megalithic menhirs, and one wonders if a link with the mystery
of the dolmens may also be solved by this excavation. North
Africa is a rich field of megalithic remains, certainly one of the
richest known, for in the plateau region of the Tell in Central
Tunisia, I have visited 40 megalithic sites. At Roknia there are
1,400 dolmens to be seen on one site alone. Our new museum at
Carthage was fortunate in procuring this year a complete collection
of objects from the Dolmens of Dougga, affording splendid docu-
mentation on this engrossing subject.

The vases found in floor A contained veritable treasures of
jewelry, gold leaves, ivory masks, gold ornaments, necklaces and
bracelets, objects of rare and varied forms, amulets, with the head
of jackals, the “ Eye of Osiris,” the Egyptian god Bes, and the ter-
rible sinister god of the Carthaginians, Moloch.

Floors B and C show also monuments of great Egyptian influ-
ence. The altars are obelisk in form and the urns again show amu-
lets composed of the Egyptian Pantheon. However, floor B is
not so rich in variety as floors A and C but an extensive study is
needed here in cataloging the variety of monuments and the transi-
tion of style.

The next floor (C) is as important as the deepest strata, for we
meet for the first time the beautiful Punic inscriptions and several
scores of new varieties of sculptured votive altars and a wide range
of Pheenician pottery.
SANCTUARY OF TANIT—PROROK ate
THE INSCRIPTIONS

The excavation of this floor is perhaps one of the most important
of North African archeological researches, for these inscriptions
are clues to the epigraphy of a lost empire, to new artistic designs,
to new religious customs, and to the new names of Carthaginians
of Hannibal and Hanno’s days.

We dug up several beautiful stele in a very fine grain of stone
and the designs were of great variety and workmanship. Temple
columns, the tree of life, lotus flowers, Carthaginian priests, the
sacred plates, uplifted palms, dolphins, and other mystic symbols,
have rewarded the excavators’ efforts. One of the most interesting
discoveries was made at the base of a great wall. While supervis-
ing the digging from floor C, one of the students of the British
school at Rome, who collaborated with us in this work, came run-
ning from that section of the excavations selected for his minute
supervision, to report the finding of a beautifully sculptured stele.
In a few moments willing hands had dug away the soil and reached
an entirely new type of Punic stele showing a priest with uplifted
hands finely sculptured at its face. The Abbé Chabot at once
took a squeeze, an important action that is taken the moment a
new inscription is located. (The archeologists and students were
all supphed with squeezers to be able to take an impression at a
moment’s notice.) The Abbé Chabot at once announced a new
form of Punic epigraphy. It was a maledictory curse of Baal
Ammon—“ Whoever overthrows this stone shall be shattered by
Baal” * * * it commenced.

A few minutes later another inscription appeared with a maledic-
tion of Tanit “at the violators of the sacred silence of the area of
the Temple of Tanit.” A fine Punic inscription placed in the new
museum for safety’s sake, bears a genealogy of 15 generations, or
approximately 500 years of a Carthaginian family whose origin goes
back to the Pheenician founding of this Tyrian colony. This field
of stele has only been “tapped,” and it is impossible to calculate
the amount of information we may derive from this excavation in
regard to the history of Carthage.

The inscriptions of Carthage differ slightly from those of ancient
Pheenicia and they are important additions to the epigraphy which
forms the first known alphabet of man. There is certainly a great
field of scientific knowledge to be published for the benefit of the
history of the ancient metropolis of North Africa, and from this
ancient sanctuary, near which laps the sea of the ancients, some of
the mystery that still surrounds the site of Carthage may in the near
future be penetrated.
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

VOTIVE ALTARS

The votive altars need especial and separate study of their own.
The forms and designs are so numerous that nearly every day we
find new specimens of Punic design and unknown examples. It
would make an interesting study to compare the different specimens
of these great altars with those of other antique lands to see if any
likeness can be detected.

The altars stand in the temple area in very close formation, under
which we found the sacred urns. They were actually covered with
painted stucco, and we have found several absolutely intact with the
colors still showing after nearly 27 centuries. They range from 1
to 5 feet in height and are composed of a sand stone found at Cape
Bon. Many are in the form of the “betel” stone. This is the most
common form found. And then comes in greatest number the figure
of a mummy standing between columns; then the triangle of Tanit,
the lozenge, the disk, the crescent, and replicas of temples, with
steps, are also quite common. Near these altars hundreds of Punic
lamps were found showing that many of the ceremonies must have
been performed at night. Babies’ milk bottles, Punic coins, quanti-
ties of grim ashes, and pottery of great variety are found around
the altars, as well as strange symbols of little-known gods.

The excavation of this historic spot this year was under the direc-
tion of Abbé Chabot, membre de L’Institut, and the greatest living
expert on the Punic inscriptions, and de Prorok, who purchased
the site with a donation given by Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Brady, of
New York. Maj. F. Shorey, of McGill University, Mr. A. Duff, of
Oxford University, and Mr. D. Harden, of the University of Cam-
bridge, Rey de Vilette, of the Ecole des Sciences Politiques, Paris,
and Horton O’Neill, of St. Louis, Mo., who took the photographs
illustrating this article, made up the composition of the staff. M.
Poinssot, the learned director of the Service des Antiquités also
supervised the work periodically. All these factors insured the
careful and proper scientific excavation and documentation of this,
the most important ruin discovered in North Africa in recent years.
It has turned out to be a veritable treasure mine of antiquity, and a
wonderful trace of the empire that once nearly conquered the an-
cient world.
PLATE

rok

De Pro

1925.

Report,

Smithsonian

GENERAL VIEW OF THE EXCAVATION OF THE TEMPLE OF TANIT
PLATE 2

|. LEFT TO RIGHT: MADAME RENAULT, PERE CHALLES, MR. ICARD (DiSco-
VERER OF TANIT), MR. SANVAGEN, MAYOR OF CARTHAGE, PERE DELATTRE,
CORRESPONDENT DE L’INSTITUT, ABBE CHABOT, MEMBRE DE L'INSTITUT,
Mr. GROSELLE, DIRECTOR OF THE NEW Museum, PERE HUGENOT, PRE-
HISTORIC CURATOR, COUNTESS DE PROROK, MR. COOKINGHAM, U. S. CON-
SUL, TUNIS, MR. POINSSOT, DIRECTOR SERVICES DES ANTIQUITIES, BARON

D’ERLANGER, AND COUNT DE PROROK

2. BEAUTIFUL AND UNIQUE VOTIVE ALTARS RECOVERED FROM THE SANCTU-

SEVERAL WERE STILL COVERED WITH THE ANCIENT STUCCO AND
FivE URNS WERE FOUND UNDER

ARY.
STILL PRESERVE VIVID COLORINGS.

EACH ALTAR
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—De Prorok PLATE 3

|. EXAMPLES OF VASES FOUND IN THE TEMPLE OF TANIT. MANY OF THEM
ARE BEAUTIFULLY PAINTED

2. THE HOME OF THE EXPEDITION, PALAIS HAMILCON AT SIDI-BOU-SOUD
PLATE 2

|. LEFT TO RIGHT: MADAME RENAULT, PERE CHALLES, MR. ICARD (DISCO-
VERER OF TANIT), Mr. SANVAGEN, MAYOR OF CARTHAGE, PERE DELATTRE,
CORRESPONDENT DE L'INSTITUT, ABBE CHABOT, MEMBRE DE L’INSTITUT,
Mr. GROSELLE, DIRECTOR OF THE NEW Museum, PERE HUGENOT, PRE-
HISTORIC CURATOR, COUNTESS DE PROROK, MR. COOKINGHAM, U. S. CON-
SUL, TUNIS, MR. POINSSOT, DIRECTOR SERVICES DES ANTIQUITIES, BARON

D'ERLANGER, AND COUNT DE PROROK

2. BEAUTIFUL AND UNIQUE VOTIVE ALTARS RECOVERED FROM THE SANCTU-

SEVERAL WERE STILL COVERED WITH THE ANCIENT STUCCO AND
FivE URNS WERE FOUND UNDER

ARY.
STILL PRESERVE VIVID COLORINGS.

EACH ALTAR

Report

1925.—De Prorok PLATE 3

. EXAMPLES OF VASES FOUND IN THE TEMPLE OF TANIT. MANY OF THEM
ARE BEAUTIFULLY PAINTED

2. THE HOME OF THE EXPEDITION, PALAIS HAMILCON AT SiDI-Bou-SouD

WN3SMW MAN 3H NI
MON S| LI “bZ6l ‘SNAP ‘LOSVHO 3asy 3H Ad ALNLILSN]

HONSY4 AHL OL GALVOINNWWOD SVM LVHIL J341S1S
SHL S| SIH, ‘“NOILOIGAIVIA) 3AISIYYSaL VY GNV SAWVN SINOL LY WNASNIA] IVWNOILVN SHL NI MON 4SaLlSV1ld
SINNd Ql AO ADOIVANSS V ONIHYVSG NOILdIYOSN| °S SINNd ‘“AISSLI NINY DINAd VW OLANIO LSYI4 AHL ‘I

b ALV1d

YO10Igd 8Q—'GZHl ‘Woday ueRiuOsYyyWS

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institutior PLATE |

JAMES SMITHSON
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUION

[With 21 plates]

“The advancement of the highest interests of national science
and learning and the custody of objects of art and of the valuable
results of scientific expeditions conducted by the United States have
been committed to the Smithsonian Institution. In furtherance of
its declared purpose—for the ‘increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men ’—the Congress has from time to time given it other
important functions. Such trusts have been executed by the insti-
tution with notable fidelity. There should be no halt in the work
of the Institution, in accordance with the plans which its Secretary
has presented, for the preservation of the vanishing races of great
North American animals in the National Zoological Park. The ur-
gent needs of the National Museum are recommended to the favorable
consideration of the Congress.” (President Roosevelt’s first mes-
sage to Congress. )

In the popular mind, the Smithsonian Institution is a picturesque
castellated building of brown stone, containing birds and shells and
beasts and many other things, situated in a beautiful park at Wash-
ington, with another large adjacent building, often calied “the
Smithsonian National Museum.” ‘The Institution is likewise sup-
posed to have a large corps of learned men, all of whom are called
“professors” (which they are not), whose time is spent in writing
books and making experiments and answering all kinds of questions
concerning the things in the heavens above, the earth beneath, and
the waters under the earth.

Contrast this popular notion with the facts. The Smithsonian
Institution is an “ Establishment,” created by an act of Congress,
which owes its origin to the bequest of James Smithson, an English-
man, a scientific man, and at one time a vice president of the Royal
Society, who died in Genoa in 1829, leaving his entire estate to the
United States of America “to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

After 10 years of debate in Congress, turning partly on the ques-
tion whether the Government ought to accept such a bequest at all
and put itself in the unprecedented position of the guardian of a

575
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ward, Congress accepted the trust and created by enactment an
“ Establishment” called by the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, consisting of the President of the United States, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice of the United States, and the members
of the President’s Cabinet. It has also a secretary, the executive
officer of the Institution, who is also the keeper of the National
Museum.

Smithson’s money, which amounted to over half a million dollars,
and later to three-quarters of a million, a great fortune in that day
of small things, was lent to the United States Treasury, the Govern-
ment agreeing to pay perpetually 6 per cent interest upon it.

In the fundamental act creating the Institution, Congress, as
above stated, provided that the President and the members of the
Cabinet should be members of the Institution—that is, should be
the Institution itself—but that nevertheless it should be governed
by a Board of Regents, composed of the Vice President and Chief
Justice of the United States, three Regents to be appointed by the
President of the Senate (ordinarily the Vice President), three by
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and six to be selected
by Congress; two of whom should be residents of the District of
Columbia, and the other four from different States, no two being
from the same State. The fundamental act further provides that
the secretary of the Institution already defined shall also be the
secretary of the Board of Regents. The Museum is primarily to
contain objects of art and of foreign and curious research; next,
objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical
specimens belonging to the United States. Provision is also made
for a library, and the functions of the Regents and of the secretary
are defined.

The preamble of this bill states that Congress has received the
property of Smithson and provided “ for the faithful execution of
said trust agreeable to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor.”
It will thus be seen that the relations of the General Government
to the Smithsonian Institution are most extraordinary, one may even
say unique, since the United States solemnly bound itself to the
administration of a trust. Probably never before has any ward
found so powerful a guardian. ‘The Smithsonian is neither en-
dowed nor maintained by Government appropriation, though the
Government entrusts the administration of several of the publicly
supported bureaus to its care.

Very eminent men have served upon the Board of Regents, both
as members of the Government and from civil life. Among them
may be found Louis Agassiz, Alexander Dallas Bache, George Ban-
croft, Rufus Choate, James Dwight Dana, Asa Gray, Gen. Mont-
ONIGTING NVINOSHLIWS

Re iaas a

@ ALW1d uoIyNy}su] UB!UOSY}IWIS—'GZ61 ‘uodey uBIUOSY}IWS
PLATE 3

(ikem
mil ite

i)

3
7)

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING, U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
INOY4 HLNOS ‘“WNASNIN IVNOILYN 'S ‘AQ ‘DNIGTING AYOLSIH IWYALYN

p AlVid UOIN SU] UBlIUOSYJIWS—'GZG] ‘Wodey uUuR;UOSYILUS
Smithsonian Report, 1925—Smithsonian Institution

JOSEPH HENRY

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1878

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution

SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1

Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution

GEORGE BROWNE GOODE

Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1887-1896
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution PLATE 8

SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1887-19C6
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution PLATE 9

CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT

Present Secretary of Smithsonian Institution
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION DTT

gomery C. Meigs, President Noah Porter, Gen. William Tecumseh
Sherman, Alexander Graham Bell, the eminent Chief Justices of
the United States, and Presidents Fillmore, Johnson, Arthur,
Roosevelt, and Coolidge, as well as the President of the Confederacy,
Jefferson Davis.

SECRETARY JOSEPH HENRY, 1846-1878

The first meeting of the Regents occurred on September 7, 1846,
and in the autumn of the same year they elected as secretary Joseph
Henry, then a professor at Princeton, known for his extraordinary
experiments on the electromagnet and other subjects relating to
electricity. His name is perpetuated in the term “henry,” the unit
of electrical self-inductance. Under his guidance the Institution
took shape. Of another great man of science, the biographer would
enumerate his classical publications and epoch-making experiments.
Of Henry’s life and work from 1846 till his death in 1878, the great
experiment was the Smithsonian Institution, and his memoirs its
publications. Yet he was also in the forefront of science in
America, and an honored president of the National Academy of
Sciences.

The work of the Smithsonian at first consisted, in the main, of
the publication of original memoirs, containing actual contributions
to knowledge, and their free distribution to important libraries
throughout the world; of giving popular lectures in Washington,
publishing them, and distributing them to libraries and individuals;
stimulating scientific work by providing apparatus and by making
grants of money to worthy investigators; and cooperating with
Government departments in the advancement of work useful to the
General Government. These were the principal methods employed
by Henry to carry out the purposes of Smithson, for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge. At the Smithsonian, too, were initiated
certain studies which afterwards became most fruitful and have re-
sulted in important Government work, most of the present scientific
activities of the Government having grown out of these investiga-
tions or been stimulated by them, such as, for instance, the present
Weather Bureau. The beginning of cooperation in library work was
at the Institution. Experiments in fog signaling, in the acoustics
and ventilation of public buildings, and in numerous other subjects
were inaugurated. In fact, in these earlier days, with one or two
exceptions, the Smithsonian was the sole representative of active
scientific work directly or indirectly connected with the United
States Government. Its influence upon the character of private
scientific work, too, was very great, since half a century or more ago
the avenues for publishing were few, and the funds for the purpose
slender.
fod

578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925
SECRETARY SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD, 1878-1887

In 1850, Spencer Fullerton Baird, a distinguished naturalist, was
elected assistant secretary of the Institution. After Henry’s death,
in 1878, he succeeded him as secretary, and continued in that office
until his own death in 1887.

Secretary Baird was for 37 years continually in the scientific
service of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government. He
developed the National Museum. An opportunity never to come
again was presented by the many great expeditions sent by the
Government into virgin fields about this time. Railroads were being
built, territories surveyed, arctic and antarctic explorations were
being made. The Army had numerous outposts in the then western
wilderness. Baird seized the opportunity and made the most of it.
He was himself an indefatigable student of the collections, but even
more, he trained a school of young men almost as enthusiastic as
himself, to whom, after him, is owing the great success of the
museum. He was especially instrumental in organizing the system of
international exchange of publications which remained under his
direct charge until his death. He was the moving spirit in the
establishment and organization of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, and its commissioner from its foundation until his death.
Methods which he invented for fish culture, and the studies of the
natural history of our waters inaugurated by him, were epoch mak-
mg. The marine biological station at Woods Hole, Mass., originated
with him.

From 1875 Doctor Baird was greatly aided by a young and enthusi-
astic naturalist, George Brown Goode, who was appointed assistant
secretary in 1887. Doctor Goode’s untimely death in 1896 was a
heavy blow to the whole Institution and especially to the National
Museum.

SECRETARY SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY, 1887-1906

Doctor Langley was the pioneer of the new astronomy. His won-
derful vision and powers of delineation had made his early eye
observations of the sun’s surface notable, but the chief contribution
which he made to astrophysics was the invention of the bolometer,
an extraordinarily sensitive electrical thermometer, and the applica-
tion of it to the study of the energy of the sun, the distribution of its
radiation in the spectrum, and the similar investigation of the radia-
tion of the moon. He established the Astrophysical Observatory at
the Smithsonian Institution to carry on this type of investigations.
He is best known to the public for his studies on aviation. Rescuing
from ridicule this later highly important subject, he made careful
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 579

investigations of the physics of mechanical flight, and as early as
1896 built large successful flight models with which he conducted
flights of nearly a mile. His later-constructed, man-carrying ma-
chine unfortunately failed of a successful launching, but the device
was undoubtedly capable of flight, as was demonstrated in 1914,
when it was flown by Curtiss at Hammondsport. Doctor Langley’s
interest in the preservation of rapidly disappearing forms of the
larger animals of the United States led to the establishment during
his administration of the National Zoological Park.

SECRETARY CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT. ELECTED 1907

The fourth secretary, Dr. Charles Doolittle Walcott, elected in
1907, had been in the service of the Geological Survey for over a
quarter of a century, and from 1891 its director. His researches had
‘covered many lines but had been preeminent in Cambrian paleontol-
ogy. Our knowledge of the earliest fossil forms of life is indelibly
associated with the name of Walcott. Always forward looking, he
had exercised a highly salutary and important influence on the
developments of forestry and reclamation, and had been the trusted
adviser of presidents and legislators. He was also the moving spirit
in the establishment of the Carnegie Institution, and has continued
for many years highly influential on its board of trustees. During
the World War, his services on numerous committees and in coordi-
nation of scientific activities were eminent. From 1917 to 1923, he
was president of the National Academy of Sciences, and in 1923
was president of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science. During Secretary Walcott’s administration the National
Gallery of Art and the Freer Gallery were added as branches of the
Smithsonian Institution.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM

Gradually, out of the collections which had been kept in the
Patent Office, the private collections of Smithson, and of appro-
priations of his money made by the Regents, and largely also
through the results of the great exploring expedition of Captain
Wilkes, there grew up a Smithsonian museum, one which was ex-
clusively cared for from the Smithson fund. Partly through the
greater activity of the Government surveys, partly through the
gifts of private individuals, and also through the valuable objects
presented to the United States Government by foreign nations at the
close of the Centennial at Philadelphia in 1876, there was brought
about the establishment of what is now known as the United States
National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, which is under
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

control of the Regents of the Institution. Great buildings have been
provided by the Government for the Museum, and it now receives
direct support from Congress. This Museum has now the material
belonging to the original Institution collected by the Smithsonian’s
own observers, together with much more secured through the Gen-
eral Government, making in all almost 10,000,000 specimens. These
constitute the foremost collection in the world in everything that
relates to the natural history, ethnology, geology, and paleontology
of the United States, besides containing many valuable series in
all these sciences from other countries. The collections have been
visited by over 20,000,000 persons and the Institution has carried
selections of its specimens to every large exhibition held in the
United States, and distributed over 1,000,000 specimens to colleges
and academies, thus powerfully stimulating the growth of museums
Jarge and small in every section of the country.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

In the year 1846, in the act of organization of the Smithsonian
Institution, the Congress of the United States directed the formation
of a gallery of art for the Nation. Even at a somewhat earlier date
it gave encouragement to such a project by granting an act of in-
corporation to a private society, whose collections were eventually to
be ceded to the United States. The assembling of art objects under
the chartered association began in 1840, and under the specific pro-
vision for a gallery in 1849. The two collections were united in 1862,
since which time the subject of art as a museum feature under the
Government has continued in charge of the Smithsonian Institution,
in accordance with the terms of its establishment in 1846.

Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston, niece of President Buchanan, and
mistress of the White House during his term of office, assembled at
her home in Washington a small collection mainly of paintings, in-
cluding examples of the work of. several distinguished masters,
which, upon her decease in 1903, it was found had been bequeathed
to the National Gallery of Art when one should be established by
the Government. In ignorance of the fact that the necessary means
for carrying out her wishes were already in existence, Mrs. Johnston
named a temporary custodian, but under conditions that were not.
acceptable. In a friendly suit which followed to settle some doubt-
ful clauses in the testament, it was decreed by the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia that the collection of art contemplated in
the act of establishment of the Smithsonian Institution was, within
the meaning and intent of the law, the National Gallery of Art.
The collection of Harriet Lane Johnston was accordingly awarded
to the Institution, and was received at the beginning of August, 1906.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 581

To say that this acquisition raised the department of art to a stand-
ard, if not to a size, appropriate to a National Gallery would be but
a feeble expression of its import, or of that of the court’s decision.
The generous act of Mrs. Johnston and the court’s ruling met with
spontaneous and gratifying approbation in all parts of the country,
and the gifts which it has led to up to the present time have ex-
ceeded the most extravagent expectations.

The national collections have increased rapidly, chiefly through
gifts and bequests of art works by patriotic citizens. Until the
beginning of the year 1920-21, no appropriation had been made for
the gallery or for the purchase of art works, and no provision for
the employment of a salaried curator or other employees of the
gallery, all works of art being associated with the department of
anthropology of the National Museum.

Fortunately a liberal private fund became available in 1919 for
the increase of the collections. The will of the late Henry Ward
Ranger provided the sum of $200,000, the interest of which is to be
devoted to the purchase of works of art for the National Gallery,
the carrying out of the bequest being intrusted to the National
Academy of Design. The provision is as follows:

All pictures so purchased are to be given by the council to art institutions
in America, or to any library or other institutions in America maintaining
a gallery open to the public, all such gifts to be upon the express condition
that the National Gallery at Washington, administered by the Smithsonian
Institute, shall have the option and right, without cost, to take, reclaim, and
own any picture for their collection, provided they exercise such option and
right at any time during the five-year period beginning 10 years after the
artist’s death and ending 15 years after his death; and, if such option and

right is not exercised during such period, the picture shall remain and be the
property of the institution to which it was first given.

By the action of the Sixty-sixth Congress in providing “ for the
administration of the National Gallery of Art by the Smithsonian
Institution, including compensation of necessary employees and
necessary incidental expenses,” its connection with the Museum was
severed and it became the seventh Government bureau under the
administration of the Institution on July 1, 1920.

On May 27, 1921, the Board of Regents of the Institution, having
the future of the gallery in mind, took the initial steps in the estab-
lishment of the National Gallery of Art Commission, formulating a
plan of organization and naming a committee of eminent men in-
terested in the fine arts to perfect the organization.

The value of the National Gallery collections already in hand is
estimated at several million dollars, their acquirement being due to
the generous attitude of American citizens toward the National
Gallery of Art. It can hardly be doubted that when a building is

76041—26———38
982 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

provided in which contributions can be cared for adequately, and
exhibited to the public in the manner they deserve, many collectors
seeking a permanent home for their treasures will welcome the op-
portunity of placing them in the custody of a national institution.
The providing of a suitable building for the gallery is all that is
necessary to make Washington in the years to come an art center
fully worthy of the Nation.

THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

The collections installed in the Freer Gallery of Art were brought
together by Charles Lang Freer, of Detroit, Mich. They represent
the results of Mr. Freer’s personal study and acquisition over a
period of about 35 years, the earliest of his purchases incorporated
in the collections dating from the later eighties.

During the administration of President Roosevelt, these collections
were presented by Mr. Freer to the Nation, with the understanding
that they should be placed under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, and on May 5, 1906, the formal deed of gift to the
Smithsonian was executed.

The building in which the collections are now installed was given
also by Mr. Ifreer, who requested that it be used exclusively for his
collections. In accepting this gift, the Government agreed to care
for and maintain the building and collections at the public expense,
although in addition to these provisions, Mr. Freer created an en-
dowment, the income from which was to be used for certain specified
activities and developments which he wished to have carried on
after his death independently, if need be, of congressional appro-
priations. It was, furthermore, his expressed desire that his gift
should become a unit of the National Gallery of Art which he hoped
would be erected in Washington in the near future, and to which he
felt confident additional units would be given by other collectors
who might think, as he did, that such a foundation at Washington,
under the control and direction of the Government, would mean the
development of an important center for cultural research in both
art and science.

Mr. Freer was convinced that the more nearly a cultural object
of any civilization expresses the underlying principles of artistic
production in soundness of thought and workmanship, the more
nearly it takes its place with other objects of equally high quality
produced by any other civilization; and with that in view, he was
intent upon bringing together such expressions of western and east-
ern cultures as seemed to him to embody at their best those char-
acteristics which he believed to be inherent in all works of art.

From the West, he acquired principally American paintings by
men, inheritors of European traditions, in whose work he found
WNASNIA) IWNOILVN ‘S 'fQ ‘SALVYSSLYSA TISSO4 JO NOILISGIHXS

OO] 3Lv1d Uo!{N}IJSU] UB!UOSY}WS—'GZG| ‘Hodey uUB!UOSYyWS
WNASNIA, IVWNOILVN ‘S ‘MN ‘SSLVYSSLYSA TISSO4 SO NOILISIHXS

1] aLlW1d UOIJN}IJSU] UBIUOSY}IWS—'SZH| ‘JAoday UBIUOSYZWS
WNASNIAL IVWNOILVN ‘S ‘Q) ‘NOILIGSdxX4 LISARSOOY WOYS SNOI] NVOIYSY AO dNOus)

61 3lVvid UOI}JNPIJSU] UB!UOSYYWSG—'SGZG| ‘WWoday uRjUOSYyRIWS
WNASNIN) IWNOILYN °S *M ‘OWINSS LIVYLS DNIYSG 4O dNOY*s) NOILISIHX>S

€| AaLv1d uoI}N}ISU] UB|UOSY}LUS—'GZGl ‘Wodey uBRlUOSYy}WES
WAASAIW TVNOILVN ‘S ‘A ‘ANIA WOOD JO TACOIN ONIXHOM

seen ETS
oe

py) salvid UoOIIN}}su] UBJUOSYILUS—SZ61 ‘uodey uBluOsyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution PLATE 15

Cs
274775

om

ISP tite

rd

im
+s

32

JACQUARD MACHINES U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
luv JO AYSTIVS YsS540S

es. ie

pene

9| ALW1d UOIPN}ISU] UBLUOSUJIWSG—'GZGl ‘W4oday UBIUOSYyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution PLATE 17

MAJOR JOHN WESLEY POWELL

Director, Bureau of American Ethnology, 1879-1902
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 583

qualities and tendencies sympathetic with those of earlier painters
in China and Japan.

From the East, he gathered paintings, potteries, sculptures in
stone, in wood and in lacquer, bronzes, jades, and objects of various
other materials. The Chinese field is represented by the largest
number of objects covering the longest period of time, but Japan,
Korea, Persia and the Near Kast are represented liberally.

The Freer Gallery Building, the Freer art collections, and the en-
dowment which Mr. Freer provided, represent many millions
of dollars, so that this is not only the largest benefaction ever en-
trusted to the Smithsonian Institution, but the most generous gift
ever made to art.

THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The Bureau of American Ethnology was organized in 1879
and placed by Congress under the supervision of the Smithsonian
Institution. It was directed that all the archives, records, and mate-
rials relating to the Indian tribes collected by the Survey of the
Rocky Mountain Region under the auspices of the Interior Depart-
ment should be transferred to the Institution for use by the bureau.
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Institution, recognizing the
great value of Maj. J. W. Powell’s services in initiating researches
among the western tribes, selected him as the person best qualified
to organize and conduct the work.

The National Government had already recognized the importance
of researches among the tribes. President Jefferson, who planned
the Lewis and Clark expedition of 1804-1806, “for the purpose of
extending the internal commerce of the United States,” especially
stipulated, in his instructions to Lewis, the observations on the
native tribes that should be made by the expedition for the use
of the Government. The Government also aided the publication of
Schoolcraft’s voluminous work on the Indians. The various War
Department expeditions and surveys had reported on the tribes and
monuments encountered in the West; the Hayden Survey of the
Territories had examined and described many of the cliff dwellings
and pueblos, and had published papers on the tribes of the Missis-
sippi Valley; and Major Powell, as chief of the Survey of the Rocky
Mountain Region, had accomplished important work among the
tribes of the Rio Colorado drainage in connection with his geological
and geographical researches, and had commenced a series of publica-
tions known as Contributions to North American Ethnology. The
Smithsonian Institution had also taken an active part in the publi-
cation of the results of researches undertaken by private students.
The first volume of its Contributions to Knowledge is The Ancient
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, by Squier and Davis, and up
to the founding of the Bureau of Ethnology the Institution had
issued upward of 600 papers on ethnology and archeology.

The work of the bureau has embraced a wide range. It was found
that within the area with which the nation has to deal there are
spoken some 500 Indian languages, as distinct from one another as
French is from English, and that these languages are grouped in
more than 50 linguistic families.

Some of the more directly practical results accomplished may be
briefly mentioned: (1) A study of the relations, location, and
numbers of the tribes, and their classification into groups or families,
based on affinity in language—a necessary basis for dealing with the
tribes practically or scientifically; (2) a study of the numerous
sociologic, religious, and industrial problems involved, an acquaint-
ance with which is essential to the intelligent management of the
tribes in adjusting them to the requirements of civilization; (3) a
history of the relations of the Indian and white races embodied in a
volume on land cessions; (4) investigations into the physiology,
medical practices, and sanitation of a people who suffer keenly from
imperfect adaptation to the new conditions imposed on them; (5)
the preparation of bibliographies embodying all works relating to
the tribes; (6) a study of their industrial and economic resources;
(7) a study of the antiquities of the country with a view to their
record and preservation; and (8) a handbook of the tribes, em-
bodying, in condensed form, the accumulated information of many
years. So valuable has this handbook proved, not only to the student
of ethnology but to the general public, that three editions have been
published in the United States, and the Canadian Government has
also reprinted a part of the work.

The more strictly scientific results relate to every department of
anthropologic research—physical, psychological, linguistic, socio-
logic, religious, technic, and esthetic—and are embodied in numerous
papers published in the reports, contributions, and bulletins; and the
general results in each of these departments have been compiled
and collated by the highest available authorities.

THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

This world is habitable because its temperature lies between
freezing and boiling. What keeps it so? The rays of the sun warm
it, the rays of the earth cool it. The atmosphere, with its water
vapor, its clouds and dust, obstructs the passage of both the sun rays
and the earth rays. The Astrophysical Observatory is the only
institution in the world that is making a general study of these
fundamental things. It has devised and constructed several types

of apparatus for these measurements which have become the stand-
s
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 585

ards of the world. The ancients, the Babylonians, the Greeks, and
others made no measurements of the quantity of heat received from
the sun. We can not tell accurately from any recorded observa-
tions prior to the year 1900 what was then the intensity of the sun’s
heat output. Since 1902 the Astrophysical Observatory has made
every year many exact measurements, so that our successors will be
able to compare their observations, even centuries hence, with those
which we are now making.

Karly in this series of observations it appeared that the sun’s heat
is not constant but variable. In other words, the sun is a variable
star. ‘This discovery, which was made about the year 1903, has been
confirmed by expeditions to California, Africa, South America, and
elsewhere, including measurements made at the summit of Mount
Whitney, the highest mountain in the United States. Since 1918
the Institution has maintained two stations—one in the United
States, one in Chile—cooperating to observe the sun’s variation. The
results are being used in several countries for weather forecasting.

The original establishment of the Astrophysical Observatory was
made with funds from private sources. Small Government appro-
priations for it have been available since 1891. A part of the income
derived from funds given to the Smithsonian by the late Mr. Thomas
G. Hodgkins for atmospheric investigations has been devoted to its
work since 1917. Mr. John A. Roebling contributed largely to its
support from 1920.

THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Secretary Langley, though an astronomer and a physicist, had
been very strongly impressed by the fact that all of our largest and
most interesting wild animals were rapidly approaching extinction.
He conceived the idea of securing a tract of country, as primitive as
possible, that might be made a lasting refuge for these vanishing
races. He urged this project upon the attention of Congress, and
after three years of effort, in which he was supported by men of
science and educators as well as by lovers of animals, an initial
appropriation of $200,000 was made for the purpose in the year 1890.

This sum was expended for the purchase of 167 acres of land,
beautifully diversified with woods and streams, in the suburbs of
Washington. A collection of about 2,000 living animals is now
the feature of the Zoological Park. There are numerous paddocks
and ranges for buffalo, deer, and other large mammals; lakes and
pools for waterfowl, seals, beaver, and other aquatic species; out-
door cages, some of large size, for hardy birds and mammals; and
houses and shelters for species requiring special care or heated
quarters during the winter months. The yearly public attendance
exceeds 2,000,000 persons.
586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution authorized Secretary
Henry to suggest, at the Glasgow meeting of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science in 1855, the formation of a catalogue
of scientific memoirs. The Royal Society of Great Britian approved
the suggestion and secured a grant from the British Government,
under which many volumes of such a catalogue appeared. In the
first volume we read: “The present undertaking may be said to
have originated in a communication from Dr. Joseph Henry, Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution.”

In March, 1894, the Royal Society issued a circular to learned
institutions throughout the world proposing a great international
scientific subject catalogue. At the invitation of the British Govern-
ment the United States was represented, through the Smithsonian
Institution, in 1895, in a conference on this matter. The project
finally took shape in 1900 as the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, and by the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution,
sufficient private subscriptions were secured in the United States,
in addition to those received from other countries, to warrant the
publication of the work in England.

Until 1906 the cards representing publications of the United States
were prepared by the Smithsonian Institution at the cost of its
private funds. Since 1906, the Regional Bureau for the United
States has been maintained at the Smithsonian Institution under
Government appropriations.

PUBLICATIONS

“The diffusion of knowledge” is accomplished by the Smith-
sonian Institution by generous correspondence, in which it annually
answers thousands of inquirers, and through its various series of
publications, which have been voluminous during 80 years. There
being no restriction in scope, every branch of science has been dealt
with, including anthropology, ethnology and archeology, botany,
zoology, mechanics and aeronautics, physics, chemistry, geology,
astronomy and astrophysics, meteorology, physiology, and many
other subjects. Im all, over 5,300,000 copies and parts have been
distributed to institutions and private individuals, these works form-
ing in themselves a scientific library in all branches. Its publica-
tions are probably the most widely known phase of the Institution’s
activity, and it is certain that a great impetus has been given to
scientific progress in this country through their use by scientists,
research workers, teachers, students, and all others engaged in the
increase and promotion of knowledge.

The Smithsonian series of tables—Physical Tables, Meteorological
Tables, Geographical Tables, and Mathematical Tables—have long
MYVd IWOIIDO1IOOZ IWNOILVN ‘SSNOH IVWWV IAI

8] ALvld UOI}NUIZSU] UBIUOSYIWS—'GZ6| ‘WWoday uRlUOSY}IWS
1g

PLATE

Institution

an

FLIGHT CAGE, NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

2. SWAN
Smithsonian Report, 1925.—Smithsonian Institution PRATE 20

FORD IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

~ &:
Per WV

AWAKE
e i

2. POLAR BEAR CAGE, NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
PLATE 21

—Smithsonian Institution

Smithsonian Report, 1925.

AY Ne 7
ep esiy A)
“} €

HODGKINS MEDAL OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 587

been standard works of reference, and the continued demand for
them has necessitated several editions of each. ‘“ Smithsonian Mathe-
matical Formule and Tables of Elliptic Functions” has recently
been added to this series.

The Smithsonian publications, together counting a total of well
over 250,000 printed pages since 1846, are as follows: (1) Annual
Reports of the Board of Regents to Congress, containing every year
a general appendix composed of popular articles illustrating recent
progress in every branch of science and research; (2) Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge, extended memoirs in quarto form em-
bodying the results of important original research; (3) Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, containing scientific papers on the most
diversified subjects, some of which have considerable popular in-
terest; (4) Annual Reports of the National Museum; (5) Bulletins
of the National Museum (including Contributions from the National
Herbarium), which contain accounts of original research by the staff
of the Museum or on the Museum collections; (6) Proceedings of
the National Museum, technical papers on the collections, and routine
scientific work of the Museum; (8) Annual Reports of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, which are enriched by accompanying papers
on ethnological and archeological subjects; (9) Bulletins of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, containing accounts of research by
members of*the staff of the bureau on the customs, languages, and
archeology of the American Indians; (10) Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory, which are extended accounts of the results
obtained from the original investigations of the Observatory; and
(11) Catalogues of Collections of the National Gallery of Art.
These various publications may be seen on the shelves of every im-
portant library in the world.

LIBRARY

Partly by purchase, but in the main by exchange for these pub-
lications, the Institution has assembled a library of over 900,000
volumes, principally of serial publications and the transactions of
learned societies, which is one of the notable collections of the world.
The major portion of it, now over 800,000 volumes, has been since
1866 deposited in the Library of Congress, with which establishment
the most cordial and mutually helpful relations exist. The re-
mainder, about 100,000 volumes, is kept at the Smithsonian and its
branches for easy reference.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

As another means of diffusing knowledge there was early estab-
lished the Bureau of International Exchanges, originally intended
simply for the proper distribution of the Smithsonian’s publications,
but which gradually assumed very wide proportions, becoming no
588 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

less than an arrangement with learned societies throughout the world
to reciprocally carry free the publications of learned societies, or of
individual scientific men, intended for gratuitous distribution.
This system was afterwards taken up by various governments which,
through treaties, bound themselves to exchange their own publica-
tions in the same way. Since the inauguration of this service, over
16,000,000 pounds of books and pamphlets have been carried to every
part of America and to all other countries of the world. The Institu-
tion, existing not only for America, in which it has over 20,000
correspondents, but for the world, has throughout Europe, Asia,
Africa, and the islands of the sea, over 40,000 correspondents—more
outside the United States than within—justifying the words “ Per
Orbem ” as the device on the Smithsonian seal. For many years
carried on solely at the expense of the Smithsonian private funds,
a small yearly grant from the Government for the exchanges was
begun in 1881. Since the year 1886 the cost of the exchanges has
been mainly borne by congressional appropriations.

EXPEDITIONS, EXPLORATIONS, AND EXHIBITIONS

In all its history the Smithsonian Institution has been promi-
nently connected with the exploration of little-known districts of
the earth, and the collection of specimens and scientific data from
them. In many of the Government surveys the Institution has
cooperated. The great National Herbarium, which for a long time
has been housed by the Smithsonian Institution, has been enriched
by its expeditions. The famous Roosevelt African Expedition,
which brought back a rich collection of African fauna, was carried
out under Smithsonian auspices. Extensive collections representing
the East and West Indies, Australia, and Southeast Asia have been
made for the Smithsonian Institution for many years by the gen-
erosity of Dr. William L. Abbott. Archeology, astronomy, botany,
ethnology, geology, paleontology, zoology, and other sciences have
all benefited by the journeys of members of the Institution’s staff
to distant lands. Notable among such expeditions are the solar eclipse
expeditions, the solar radiation expeditions, Doctor Fewkes’s explora-
tions of prehistoric American ruins in the southwest, and Doctor
Walcott’s studies of Cambrian fossils in the Canadian northwest.

The Smithsonian Institution has participated prominently in
almost all of the large expositions held in the last 50 years in
America and Europe. Very numerous diplomas and medals attest
the appreciation which its exhibits evoked.

For the promotion of education large numbers of specimens have
been distributed to schools and colleges throughout our country.
These specimens are fully labeled and described in a way to assist
in the instruction of pupils.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 589
THE HODGKINS AND LANGLEY MEDALS

The Hodgkins gold medal was established by the Smithsonian
Institution to be awarded for important contributions to the knowl-
edge of the nature and properties of atmospheric air, or for prac-
tical applications of existing knowledge to the welfare of mankind,
It was first bestowed, April 3, 1899, on Sir James Dewar, F. R. S.,
and second, October 28, 1902, on Prof. J. J. Thomson, IF. R. 8S.

The Langley medal was established in memory of the late Secre-
tary Samuel Pierpont Langley and his contributions to the science
of aerodromics, “to be awarded for specially meritorious investiga-
tions in connection with the science of aerodromics and its appli-
cation to aviation.” ‘This medal was presented in 1910 to the broth-
ers Wilbur and Orville Wright, and in 1913, to Mr. Glenn H.
Curtiss and M. Gustave Eiffel.

THE NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS

In the year 1915, the Government established the National Ad-
visory Committee for Aeronautics, in which representatives of the
Army and the Navy, the Weather Bureau, the National Bureau of
Standards, and others were drawn together for the promotion of
the national defence. Secretary Walcott, of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, acted as a member and chairman from its organization, and
the meetings were often held at the rooms of the Institution.

CONCLUSION

As we thus briefly survey the history of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, its past achievements, and its present development, we can not
fail to be tremendously impressed by the fruitfulness of Smithson’s
bequest. An investment in science is as sure as a United States
bond. All history, and especially the history of our own time,
proves it. If investigation had always been limited to subjects
promising to have utility, we should still be in the dark ages. The
enlightenment of the human mind brought about by the study of
astronomy, for instance, has a value not to be measured by dollars
and cents, but by the safety of life and property from religious per-
secution and by the advance from superstition and ignorant fear of
nature. On the other hand, it would be easy to cite many investiga-
tions of apparently merely curious and trivial phenomena which
jater on came to have commercial utility. One will suffice. As late
as 1890 no “ practical man” would have dreamed of investigating
the conduction of electricity through rarefied gases. Roéntgen’s dis-
covery of X rays in 1895 was not in the least influenced by utility,
but came out of pure research work in that field. Think of X-ray
hospital work nowadays! Moreover, every department store car-
590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

ries radio outfits, with their thermionic amplifiers, which also are the
children of that same line of pure research.

Hertzian waves have become radio; Pasteur’s bacilli have led up
to the Mayo brothers’ surgery and the abolishment of yellow fever;
Faraday’s and Henry’s electromagnets have become dynamos and
telegraphs, and the whole world is revolutionized in a century by
the discoverers who worked not for utilities but for knowledge.
Yet it is a mean, stunted mind that sees only things like autos and
electric lights as the foremost*rewards and justification of science.
What the sculpture of Phidias, the painting of Raphael, the music
of Beethoven, the language of the Bible, are to the finer departments
of the mind, such also, and quite as wholesome in their influence on
private life and public conduct, are those studies of the atoms, the
universe, and the march of life, which form science.

If any of our research institutions deserves public benefactions,
most of all it is the national Smithsonian Institution. Founded by
an Englishman, James Smithson, “ for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men,” it has been the parent of the Weather
Bureau, the Fish Commission, the National Museum, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the Geological Survey, the National Zoological
Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Bureau of International
Exchanges (of scientific intelligence), and the National Gallery of
Art; it has contributed largely to the Library of Congress and has
had a part in many other valuable enterprises. In its reports and
technical papers the inquirer may find in accurate form, sometimes
popularly, sometimes technically expressed, the whole progress of
human knowledge. Not only that, but in a daily correspondence
which taxes its small force of experts and clerks, it has answered
hundreds of thousands of inquiries for useful or technical informa-
tion. ‘Though some of the bureaus just named have split away from
the parent organization, the institution is still charged by Congress
with the care of eight of them. These administrative duties employ
much time of the staff and in some measure prevent the promotion
of projects for the advancement of science.

Liberally endowed at the beginning, the resources of the Smith-
sonian Institution have not kept pace with the growth of our country.
Other research institutions have far outstripped this ward of the
whole Nation in their means for carrying on the investigation of
nature. Local pride seems to have outrun national pride in the
promotion of great scientific endowments. Thus it remains that in
the year 1925 the yearly income of the Smithsonian endowment still
is less than $70,000, and totally inadequate to the opportunities which
the institution’s prestige and eminent connections are continually
presenting for maintaining its beneficent service to humanity.
mithsonian Report, 1925.—Strahar PLATE |

Str ARCHIBALD GEIKIE
SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE?

By Srr AUBREY STRAHAN

[With 1 plate]

By the death of Str Arcurpatp Gurkre on November 10, 1924,
British geology has lost its leader, and the Geological Society its
most eminent Fellow. From an early age to the end of his long life
he made the interests of the society one of his first cares. Elected
a Fellow in 1859, he served on the council in 1883 and for many sub-
sequent years. He was a vice president in 1886-1888 and president
in 1890-1892. On the occasion of the centenary of the society in
1907, he acceded to a generally expressed desire that he should pre-
side for a second term (1906-1908), and on relinquishing the chair
was elected foreign secretary. For many years he had been constant
in his attendance at the meetings, and when advancing years ren-
dered this impossible, he tendered his resignation; but, at the unani-
mous request of the council, he continued to perform the duties of
the post to the end of his life.

He was born in Edinburgh on December 28, 1835. For the details
of his early life we are indebted to his autobiography, “A Long Life’s
Work.” This volume, which was published only a few months be-
fore his death, shows no signs of waning powers or of failing
memory. In it he describes the innumerable functions in which he
took a leading part, the appointments which he held, his travels, and
some of the many honors that he received. He dwells, too, on the
friends whom he made and on the encouragement which he received
from them as a young man and in after-life; but more especially
interesting to us is the revelation of the inner thoughts of a boy who,
in obedience to a natural bent and rather to the alarm of his father,
made geology the occupation of his life, and eventually attained the
highest posts open to a man of science in this country.

A dormant love of geology was roused accidentally soon after he
left school. The finding of a fossil plant in a block of limestone in
Burdiehouse Quarry set his active mind speculating on the relics of

+ Reprinted by permission from The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Vol.
LXXXI, No. 322, July 4, 1925.

591
592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

past ages that were entombed in the crust of the earth, and from
that moment the rocks and their fossils became increasingly the
subject of his thoughts. He made the acquaintance of Robert Cham-
bers, afterwards known to be the author of the “ Vestiges of Crea-
tion,” and of other geologists, and read every book on geology that
he could lay hands on, deriving, however, a greater stimulus from
the enthusiasm and literary charm of Hugh Miller’s “ Old Red Sand-
stone” than from some more informing works. But, more than by
any book, he was inspired by his own study of the rocks near Edin-
burgh, with their abundance of fossils and of evidence of ancient
volcanic outbursts.

Though the boy’s bent was clearly indicated, his father found
it difficult to believe that a study of geology could provide a
livelihood. He arranged, therefore, that young Geikie should
become a banker, after a preliminary training for two years in a
lawyer’s office. The interruption was brief, for the boy’s heart
was among the hifls of Midlothian and far from the office. He
was out in the field again long before the two years had elapsed.
Determined, however, to pursue literary studies in addition to
science, he matriculated at Edinburgh University in 1854 as a
student of Humanity (that is, Latin), and although domestic cir-
cumstances prevented him from completing the course, he gained
the reputation of being one of the best classical scholars of his
year and the best writer of English prose among his class fellows.
The literary ability thus shown proved to be one of the principal
factors in his success in after life.

In the meantime Geikie had been prosecuting geological work
in Skye with such success that he impressed the geologists of the
day as a young man of unusual promise. When, therefore, recruits
were inquired for by Sir Roderick Murchison, then Director General
of the Geological Survey, he was warmly recommended by Hugh
Miller. A walk over Arthur’s Seat with Ramsay, at that time Local
Director, took the place of the examination of later days, and the
appointment was made in 1855. After a year’s training in the
field with Ramsay, the young geologist was regarded as competent,
and was set to work in the surroundings of Edinburgh. He found
time, nevertheless, to complete his work in Skye, and to write an
account of it, which was communicated to this society in 1857.

This period he found to be the most studious of his life; but, how-
ever great might be the calls upon his endurance, he never failed to
make time for companionship with the classical authors and with
the best English writers from Chaucer to our own day. The spirit
with which he was imbued in his field work is best expressed in
his own words: “The work on which I was now engaged, and to
SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE—STRAHAN 593

which I had dedicated my life, was not merely an industrial employ-
ment; the means of getting a livelihood; a pleasant occupation for
mind and body.. It often wore to me an aspect infinitely higher and
nobler. It was in reality a methodical study of the works of the
Creator of the universe, a deciphering of His legibly written record
of some of the stages through which this part of our planet passed
in His hands before it was shaped into its present form” (A Long
Life’s Work, pp. 55, 56). The deep joy that he felt in the study
of nature had to be shared with others, and in 1858 he produced
a little book, “The Story of a Boulder,” the first of a long series
by which he carried his message to all parts of the civilized world.

In 1860 it fell to Geikie to complete the Life of Edward Forbes,
which had been left unfinished through the death of Prof. George
Wilson. Some of Forbes’s relations hesitated before intrusting the
task to so young a man, but the book, when published in 1861, showed
that the confidence felt in him had not been misplaced. This was
the first of several biographies in which Geikie, with many a kindly
touch, recorded the personalities and achievements of friends who
had gone before him. It was followed in 1869 by the life of James
David Forbes, in 1875 by that of Murchison, and in 1895 by that of
Ramsay. In all of them his close touch with current geological
research and his sound judgment enabled him to present a true
estimate of the progress in science due to each of these distin-
guished men.

In 1871 the natural history professorship at Edinburgh University
was divided into two, and geology with mineralogy became the
subjects of a new professorship. Murchison offered to endow the
new chair, on the understanding that he should nominate the first
professor. He put forward Geikie’s name, but the power to nomi-
nate was objected to by the Home Office as an infringement of the
prerogative of the Crown, and the Science and Art Department
considered it inadvisable that the posts of director of the geological
survey of Scotland and the professorship should be held by the
same man. The appointment was made nevertheless, mainly through
the exertions of Lyon Playfair, at that time member for the univer-
sity. During his tenure of this post, which lasted till he was
appointed director general of the survey in 1882, Geikie did much
to revive the renown of the old Scottish geological school. He had
at first no lecture room to himself and no diagrams or specimens,
but made use of the exceptional advantages offered by the neighbor-
hood of Edinburgh to conduct geological excursions, which are still
gratefully remembered by his old students.

In 1860 Murchison invited Geikie to accompany him to the High-
lands, with the object of following up the conclusions to be drawn
594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

from Charles Peach’s discovery of Cambrian fossils in northwestern
Sutherland. Writing in 1924, Geikie admits that this expedition
“was a premature attempt * * * the true structure of the High-
lands was far too complicated to be unraveled by desultory and
hasty traverses.” Neither he nor Murchison had been able to doubt
the evidence of their eyes that in one section after another crystal-
line schists overlay fossiliferous Cambrian strata with what ap-
versy which has been laid to rest for many years, and it will suffice
to say that the apparent normal superposition with its far-reaching
consequences found no acceptance with Nicol, Heddle, Callaway,
Bonney, and others. Geikie, partly perhaps through loyalty to his
chief, for long refused to give way, and it was not till Lapworth
had made his exhaustive examination of the whole Durness-Erribol
region that he admitted his error. Once convinced, he hastened to
correct it. He intrusted the surveying of the region to B. N. Peach
and J. Horne, who with their colleagues produced what was prob-
ably the most detailed and masterly study of overthrusting on a
great scale that had ever been made.

The succession of strata in the Moffat and Girvan districts was
determined in somewhat similar stages. There also it had been
masked by earth movements. Faults and excessive plication had
repeated the same beds over and over again, and it was only by
detailed surveying and intensive study of the fossils that Lapworth
unraveled the tangle. His predecessors had been content to leave
as one group a series of strata varying extraordinarily in thickness
and petrological character, and containing an admixture of fossils
that were elsewhere characteristic of distinct formations. He re-
duced this enigmatical “ group ” to an orderly sequence, each mem-
ber of which was distinct in character and fossils, and established
correlation with other parts of the kingdom. It is interesting to
see how closely these Highland controversies were paralleled in the
United States. There the succession of the same rocks was in
question, the same difficulties in determining it were encountered,
and the same mistakes were made. The “ Taconic System,” founded
in 1842, formed the subject of controversy for upwards of 60 years,
until it was finally proved to consist of Cambrian and Silurian
strata folded and faulted together in no sort of chronological
order. That the first geologists to encounter problems so calculated
to deceive should have failed to master them need cause no surprise.
Rather should our sympathies be extended to pioneers who were
faced with the impossible task of interpreting dislocations, the
existence of which could be ascertained only by prolonged and
detailed mapping. But we may admit that our sympathy might
SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE—STRAHAN 595
have been warmer had Geikie, true lover of nature as he was, shown
more cordiality in welcoming the elucidation of the truth.

There remains, however, to his credit a great record of original
unchallenged work. He made a particular study of the composi-
tion and direction of transport of the Bowlder clay, and noted the
occurrence in it of stratified beds which he attributed to temporary
amelioration of climate. Originally an advocate of the iceberg
theory, he abandoned it in favor of Agassiz’s views on ice sheets,
convinced by the work of his colleagues in Scotland and by what
he saw in northern Norway. He recognized also among the Scot-
tish mountains the existence of moraines and glacierborne blocks
and the sites of glacial lakes as evidences of local glaciation during
the last phase of the Glacial Period.

His great paper on the Old Red Sandstone of Western Europe,
as a piece of masterly description, takes high rank in geological
literature. His classification has in the main stood the test of time;
but, with characteristic reluctance to change a view to which he
had once committed himself, he persistently declined to remove the
Caithness Flagstones from the Lower Old Red Sandstone, though
they differed from that subdivision (as known in the Grampians)
both in their fishes and in their plants. The flagstones appear in
Geikie’s map of Scotland as Lower Old Red, but on the geological
survey maps as Middle Old Red Sandstone.

Volcanic episodes in the history of the earth had engaged Geikie’s
attention from the first, and in 1860 he presented to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh a paper on “The Chronology of the Trap
Rocks of Scotland,” in which for the first time an attempt was
made to arrange the volcanic periods evidenced in that country in
geological sequence. In dealing with this subject he was not satis-
fied till he had acquired the necessary experience by visiting the
volcanic regions of Auvergne, the Eifel, and Italy, and exploring
the great lava fields of western America. In Auvergne, especially,
the comparatively recent features displayed by volcanic energy
enabled him to picture the aspect of the ancient vents and lava flows
of the Firth of Forth. In the United States he found reason to
adopt Richthofen’s view that the flat beds of basalt were due to
fissure eruptions, and applied this interpretation to the Tertiary
volcanic plateaus of the West Highlands. He summed up his ob-
servations and conclusions in his standard work on the Ancient
Volcanoes of Great Britain.

Unlike Lyell, Geikie gained most of his experience by his own
observations in the field. In addition to the work done in his
leisure time, he was for some years a member of the field staff of
the geological survey, and after he had attained higher posts,
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

charged mainly with administrative duties, he was constant in in-
spection. On these occasions his quick grasp and wide experience
enabled him to give much help to his colleagues, but at the same
time he made full use of the opportunities for adding to his own
knowledge. Scenery from the point of view of its origin and geo-
logical significance made a strong appeal to his poetic instincts.
Born, bred, and trained in Scotland, he had gazed upon many a
noble landscape, and had pondered over the vast effects of denuda-
tion and the characters imposed upon the features of the country
by the passage of ice sheets. His views are embodied in “ The
Scenery of Scotland,’ published in 1865, a book as interesting to
the nongeological reader as to the expert. All his lighter books, in-
deed, such as Geological Sketches at Home and Abroad and Scot-
tish Reminiscences, were written in a style to appeal to a large
circle of readers.

Late in life he interested himself in the early history of geology.
The Founders of Geology, first published in 1897, could only
have been written by one who had a wide acquaintance with ancient
and modern literature. When called upon to deliver a presidential
address to the Classical Association, he chose for his subject the evi-
dence from Latin literature of the appreciation of nature by the
Romans. Later on he further developed the theme, and visited
Italy in order that he might himself study the landscapes on which
the eyes of the Roman poets had dwelt.

Of all the calls made upon Geikie’s untiring industry none was
more severe than the production of his educational works. The
“Advanced Textbook” is a storehouse of information and a monu-
ment to the sagacity with which he handled an enormous literature.
Stupendous as was the labor involved, he found the preparation of
the two little primers on geology and physical geography still more
exacting—the phrasing was made the subject of many experiments on
students before he could satisfy himself that he had secured the
lucidity that was essential. The two small-scale geological maps of
Scotland and England, respectively, prepared by him during his
term of office on the Geological Survey, are admirable examples of
the pains that he took to secure clearness and what he considered to
be correct versions.

As a lecturer he had many experiences, both at home and abroad,
before audiences of the most varied character, including the inmates
of a deaf and dumb institution and the patients of the Morningside
Lunatic Asylum. He was also one of that little band of distinguished
men who lectured to working men in the theater of the Jermyn
‘Street Museum. His wide reading enabled him to choose subjects
{o suit his hearers, and more than once he enlarged later in book
SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE—STRAHAN 597

form on some research that he had taken up for the purposes of an
address. Masterly and elegantly phrased as his lectures were, they
never failed to interest; but in delivering them he was not the equal
of many a far less able man in rousing enthusiasm in his audience.

His retirement from the Geological Survey in 1901 enabled him to
increase his other activities. He had been elected to the Royal
Society in 1865, had served twice on the council, and had held the
posts of vice president in 1885-1887, and of foreign secretary in
1889-1893. After his retirement he served as secretary in 1903-1908
and was president in 1908-1912. In 1912 the society celebrated its
two hundred and fiftieth anniversay, and it fell to Geikie to receive
an unexampled gathering of distinguished men of science from all
parts of the world, and to preside at the various functions. During
this period of his life he wrote six or more books, besides bringing
out new editions of his Advanced Textbook and several others. He
had served on several departmental committees and on Royal Com-
missions; at the age of 85 he was appointed chairman of the Royal
Commission on Trinity College, Dublin.

The eminence attained by Geikie in science and letters was ac-
knowledged by the bestowal of honors from all parts of the world.
Space will admit of the mention of those only that he most valued.
By our own society he was awarded the Murchison and Wollaston
medals, by the Royal Society a Royal medal, and from the Royal
Society of Edinburgh he twice received the Macdougal-Brisbane
medal. He was also the Hayden gold medallist of the Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences, the Livingstone gold medallist of the
Royal Scottish Geographical Society, and the gold medallist of the
Institution of Mining and Metallurgy. Honorary degrees were con-
ferred on him by the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Dublin,
Glasgow, St. Andrews, Aberdeen, Liverpool, Birmingham, Leipzig,
Upsala, and Prague. He was an officer of the Legion of Honour and
honorary member of a great number of the leading scientific societies
at home and abroad. He was three times president of Section C of
the British Association, and was president of the association in 1892.
In 1910 his distinction in the world of letters was acknowledged by
an invitation to take the presidential chair of the Classical Associa-
tion. He was a trustee of the British Museum and a governor of
Harrow School. In 1891 he was knighted, and in 1907 created a
K. C. B. In 1918 he received the crowning honor of his life, the
Order of Merit.

This crowded life closed peacefully on November 10, 1924. To-
ward the end gradually failing strength prohibited him from leaving
the home that he had made at Halsemere, but his mind remained

76041—26——39
598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

active to the last, and it was not until a few months before his death
that the busy pen was allowed to rest. From early youth until old
age could no longer be denied his career had been one of uninter-
rupted progress. When fresh from school he attracted the attention
of the most eminent geologists of the time; in the profession which
he chose and in the societies which he joined he rose to the highest
posts; in every country he visited he won the respect of its most
eminent scientific men; every function that he attended gained in
significance and dignity by his presence.

The keynote of his success was industry directed by sagacity. An
innate love of writing and a remarkably retentive memory kept his
pen always busy. The most arduous day’s work in the field or the
office put no check upon his reading and writing, and both were of
the best, for he loved a good author and had himself cultivated the
power of narrating the marvels which he had wrested from nature
in language worthy of the theme. A clear if somewhat cold judg-
ment controlled his actions, but in his biographical work the coldness
was masked by a studied kindliness of expression. Though he made
many friends at home and abroad, his sympathies with his fellow
men were somewhat overshadowed by his love of nature and passion
for work. He did not seek collaboration, but preferred to work
single handed, nor could he brook criticism.

Archibald Geikie now takes his place in history as one who has
enriched the world by his labors and his writings, and as one of
those outstanding leaders who has raised the science of geology to a
higher plane than that on which he found it.
NED HOLLISTER

NED HOLLISTER (1876-1924)1

By WILFRED H. OsGoop,

Field Musewm of Natural History, Chicago

[With 2 plates]

Although Ned Hollister’s death occurred before his years had
reached the half century mark, the consciousness that he is gone
brings pangs similar to those evoked by the passing of older natural-
ists belonging to another generation. He was one of those heart-and-
soul, born lovers of animals, who carry not only an affectionate sym-
pathy for living things but also a passion for orderly knowledge of
them—one of those whose career began in boyhood with the forma-
tion of a collection of his own and led on, without benefit of school
or college, to mastery of difficult technical subjects as naturally and
easily as if he had been ordained for it.

He was born November 26, 1876, in Delavan, Wis., the youngest
of a family, including also two brothers, Warren D. and Kenneth,
and a sister Margaret. His forbears were of English blood, one of
the better known of them being Lieut. John Hollister, who came to
America in 1642 and was later prominent in the colonial affairs of
Connecticut. His grandfather was a native of New York State and
thence, in 1839, migrated to southern Wisconsin, where he settled in
Rock Prairie, Walworth County. His father, Kinner Newcomb
Hollister, was born near Delavan on a farm which he continued to
own after moving into town and opening a store. He sold this
business to enter the Civil War, where he was commissioned captain,
and after the war returned to Delavan to continue in a general mer-
chandise business until his death in 1911. Ned’s mother, Frances
Margaret (Tilden) Hollister, is still living in Delavan. They be-
longed to that class of well-informed, prosperous, and independent
people which makes nations great, engaged mainly in farming or
local business connected with farming. Their home was one in which
nothing essential was lacking, and while the great outdoors was al-
ways at hand, it was supplemented by the social and educational ad-
vantages of the village and by proximity to the two large cities—
Chicago and Milwaukee.

1 Reprinted by permission from Journal of Mammalogy, vol, 6, No. 1, February, 1925.
599
600 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Ned’s formal education was confined to the public schools of Dela-
van, where he had the usual high-school training but failed actually
to graduate, a collecting trip having conflicted with the last few
days of the school year. Although he did not go to college, early
associations were made by which his natural tendencies received all
that was necessary to give him an understanding of scientific method
and an appreciation of absolute accuracy exceeding that of many
college-trained men. One of the first of these profitable contacts
was with Prof. Ludwig Kumlien, of Milton College, in the small
town of Milton, Wis., not far from Delavan.

It is not uncommon for naturalists to show their inclinations early
in life and they often make real contributions to knowledge while
still in their teens, but few, if any, have begun earlier than Ned
Hollister. In his joint work with L. Kumlien on The Birds of
Wisconsin, published in 1903, it is stated that conclusions were based
on 35 years’ field work by the senior author and 15 by the junior.
This implies that Hollister regarded his field work as beginning
when he was 12 years old. If he says so, we may be quite sure it
did, not theoretically but actually, and the statement in The Birds
of Wisconsin undoubtedly means that at least some of the matter
published in the book was founded by definite observations or notes
made by the boy of 12. Further evidence is shown by the fact that
he began publishing in his sixteenth year, in 1892, when three papers
appeared under his name, one in The Oologist and two in a leaflet
called The Taxidermist.

Early bird’s-nesting and taxidermic efforts were made in the com-
pany of his brother Warren, and the collection of birds, eggs, and
latterly of mammals which was brought together was a joint affair,
Warren only relinquishing his interest after he had left home and
entered an active life of business. Young Ned and his brother evi-
dently were favorites among a coterie of sportsmen citizens of De-
Javan who took them on their semiannual shooting parties to the
near-by lakes and prairies where ducks, snipes, and other game birds
abounded. His father encouraged him, and an uncle, Mr. F. E. Bur-
rows, often accompanied him to photograph birds’ nests. On his
father’s farm near Delavan were several duck “holes” which fur-
nished him a private preserve, and on family farms in Minnesota
and Florida, he had welcome headquarters for hunting and collect-
ing. These early hunting associations were very dear to Hollister
and in later years, long after he had become immersed in scientific
study and executive work in Washington, he returned to Delavan
practically every season to shoot over the old ground and visit with
what he affectionately and truly termed “the old crowd,” for most
of them were much older than he.
NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 601

The life in Delavan, the early collecting, and the hunting parties
with older men formed an important part of Hollister’s background.
Good sportsmanship, manliness, loyalty, camaraderie, judgment, and
fun-loving humor were qualities which he possessed by nature, but
doubtless their development was assisted by these associations. There
was another and more intense side to him, however, and this also had
a favorable environment. He was the heir, so to speak, of a line of
pioneer naturalists in southern Wisconsin which included Lapham,
Hoy, Thuré Kumlien, and Ludwig Kumlien. The last was the one to
form the connection and he exerted an important influence upon Hol-
lister when he was at the critical age of 19.

Kumlien was then teaching in Milton College and, although Hol-
lister was not a student of the college, he “ walked with” Kumlen to
better purpose than many of those who were. Shortly after this,
Hartley Jackson, now a well-known mammalogist but then a boy of
16 and four years younger than Ned, came to Milton College as a
student and the two were brought together by Kumlien. After Kum-
lien’s early death, Hollister became a mentor for Jackson as Kumlien
had been for him, and later was instrumental in bringing Jackson to
his present position with the Biological Survey. Probably through
Kumlien, he became acquainted with others, including members of
the Wisconsin Natural History Society, among whom were Dr. H. V.
Ogden, Dr. Ernst Copeland, and Dr. G. W. Peckham, of Milwaukee.
As early as 1892 he was in touch with the United States Department
of Agriculture and began collecting birds’ stomachs to assist the
Government work in economic ornithology. It was in this year, also,
that he began earnestly to collect birds’ skins as well as eggs and was
soon exchanging and corresponding with many prominent ornitholo-
gists. One of them was William Brewster, whose well-known
warmth toward younger men soon caused Hollister to send him vari-
ous specimens for determination and to ask his advice on matters
concerning them. Just how Hollister would have developed without
these favorable influences is uncertain, but one can not avoid wonder-
ing what would be the fate of a boy like him in present times when,
with rare exceptions, there are no Kumliens in our small colleges and
no Brewsters forming private collections. Even as it was, he did not
find himself immediately, and for several years after reaching his
majority he remained in Delavan assisting in the general store kept
by his father. Meanwhile, all spare time was devoted to his collee-
tions and short trips were made at all opportunities. In 1896 and
1897 he had outings in Minnesota near the town of Kinbrae, and for
three succeeding winters a few weeks were spent in Arkansas in
Lonoke, Arkansas, and Prairie Counties. At this period his interest
in mammals had been awakened and he made his first mammal skins
602 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

for permanent preservation in 1896. At the same time, he began com-
piling a list of the species of Walworth County, Wis.

In March, 1901, Ned made an eastern trip to visit the Smithsonian
Institution and National Museum, places which had been enshrined
in his boyhood fancies. He was always very modest and doubtless
made no advances to any of the men he met in Washington, but the
following summer he was invited to join a Biological Survey party in
Texas as assistant to Vernon Bailey. The appointment was for tem-
porary services only, and he gladly accepted for a period of four
months, June to September, inclusive. In later years, he often re-
lated with much good humor the trepidation with which he went to
meet the famous naturalist, whose name he had seen so frequently in
print and whose prowess as a traveler and discoverer of new mam-
mals had seemed to portend a man of extraordinary physique and
commanding, perhaps domineering, character. Ned was by no means
provincial, but in such reminiscences always represented himself to
be; and it was this that gave point to his amusing description of his
surprise when he found Mr. Bailey to be a man no larger than him-
self, quick, wiry, and active, unassuming and sympathetic. Ned’s
keen sense of humor was also titillated on this occasion by the fact
that Bailey suggested that they have a conference in a quiet place
and for this purpose chose the cemetery in the little village of Jef-
ferson, Tex. He worked with Bailey for a time and came to have
great admiration for him. Soon proving competent for independent
assignments he made important collections of mammals and birds at
Joaquin, Sour Lake, Comstock, Fort Stockton, and Davis Mountains,
Tex., as well as at Weed, Cloudcroft, Ruidoso, Roswell, and Fort
Sumner, N. Mex.

In the fall of 1902, he returned to Delavan, went for a deer hunt in
Vilas County, Wis., and then, evidently intending to continue as a
private collector, he bought the Kumlien collection of about 1,500
specimens and added it to his own in February, 1903. Kumlien’s
death in December, 1902, after a long illness, was a sad blow, and the
Birds of Wisconsin, on which the two had been working for years,
was left to be completed by Hollister. The winter of 1902-3, there-
fore, was spent largely on this work and the book appeared in July,
1903, a model of care and accuracy. Although a dozen or more notes
and short articles had appeared previously, this was his first lengthy
publication.

In the spring of 1903, the question of temporary field assistants
again arose in the oflice of the Biological Survey, this time in connec-
tion with an Alaskan trip to which I had been assigned. After a
word with Mr. Bailey, I quickly decided that Ned Hollister was the
man I wanted and at once made a proposal to him which he accepted.
NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 603

We met one evening about the first of May in a railroad station in
Chicago where we immediately took train for the West. I can never
forget that first evening during which we became acquainted and
talked over plans for the summer. Although I had then been some
five or six years on the regular staff of the Biological Survey, and
although he half-jokingly and self-deprecatingly referred to me as
a “professional,” we were about of an age, and the rate at which we
found common ground on all sorts of subjects has scarcely ever been
equaled in my experience. Evidently he did not find me larger nor
more muscular than anticipated and I particularly remember the
droll but emphatic way in which he expressed himself as I led the
way from the dining car to the comfortable smoking coach. “ You're
the first Biological Survey man I’ve seen,” he said, “ who didn’t act
as if he thought I was a criminal every time I lit a cigar.”

The Alaskan trip lasted five months, joint work being done mainly
in mountains near Eagle and along the Yukon River from Eagle to
Circle. Hollister also did independent work on the coast at Mitkof
Island and Kupreanof Island, Alaska, and at Steilacoom and San
Juan Island, Wash. One of the mammals obtained at the last lo-
cality was named for him, Peromyscus maniculatus hollisteri.
Throughout the trip, he impressed me more for all-around balanced
qualities than for outstanding ones. The broad fact about him was
the all-embracing character of his love of animals and nature. Down
to the meanest detail of work, there was nothing connected with the
observation and study of animals, alive or dead, which did not par-
take of this love. Each phase of the subject was to him only part
of one whole, none of which was to be slighted. The excitement of
the chase and the exultation of capture or discovery held great
charms for him, but the laborious paring of hides and other sup-
posed drudgery seemed to give him no less pleasure. He did such
things not only with good cheer but with an obvious enjoyment that
was related not to the work itself but to its object. The finished
specimen was to him something to be treated almost as if sacred. I
have never known a man who, without being meticulous, took such
pride in the quality of his specimens and such care of them subse-
quent to preparation. He evinced the same joy and maintained sim-
ilar high standards in method and practice in making field notes, in
keeping catalogues or records, and in publishing results.

To his qualities as a collector and observer was added a charming
disposition in which modesty, simplicity, loyalty, and good humor
were the leading features. An amusing incident never escaped him
nor ever left his memory, so no one was long in his company without
being entertained by a dry comment or a humorous anecdote. As a
field companion, he was delightful and his equal will very rarely be
found. He loved human beings, as such, regardless of appearances
604 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

or station, and in traveling made friends among all classes with an
unerring instinct for those with sound fundamental virtues. He
was passionately fond of dogs and the only regret he ever expressed
in connection with long field trips was that he could not take his
dog. His favorite dog was a pedigreed English setter, “ Chick
Stanton,” which he had raised from a pup and trained for hunting
and field trials. During the long field season when I was intimately
associated with him, nothing impressed me more than his love for
this dog. When other subjects failed, he was always ready to talk
about dogs, and, at times, it seemed as if he loved “ Chick Stanton”
more than mother, brother, or any human being. That he had a
sterner side, strong convictions on many subjects, and great determi-
nation, however, was evidenced in many ways. As a good instance,
a misfortune which befell him when he first began collecting mam-
mals in Delevan may be cited. While he was skinning a slightly de-
composed skunk, one of his fingers became infected and a bad case of
blood poisoning set in. The whole arm was soon affected, discolored,
and menacing in appearance to such an extent as to have caused panic
in a man not endowed with nerve and determination. The local doc-
tors, fearing the possible loss of his life, decided that amputation of
the arm at the shoulder was the only safe course. When this infor-
mation was given to the patient, he told them that his ambition to be
a one-armed man was absolutely nil and that rather than permit
them to operate he would take the small chance of life which they
offered as the alternative.

On returning from Alaska in October, 1903, he again went to
Delavan and again worked with his father in the store, but a few
months later accepted another special detail from February 7 to
April 10, 1904, as the representative of the Biological Survey on a
hunting trip to Louisiana in company with Mr. W. E. Forbes, of
Boston, and the well-known guide, B. V. Lilly. In June of the same
year he was appointed to the field staff of the Biological Survey
and, with the exception of a short furlough in the spring of 1906,
was continuously employed in the field or in Washington until 1910.
During this period he made two long field trips. The first began in
Promontory, Utah, June 5, 1904, and ended at Magdalena, N. Mex.,
October 25, 1905. It covered some 40 localities in the States of
California, Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, and Utah. The second lasted
from May 6 to November 2, 1909, and was entirely in California.
His collections for the Biological Survey reached a total of 3,625
mammals and 1,509 birds.

It was not until mid year in 1906, after his long trip in the West
and his subsequent furlough, that he found himself in Washington,
authorized to do something for the Biological Survey other than
NED HOLLISTER—-OSGOOD 605

field work. His genius in the museum was immediately recognized
and he was placed in charge of the care and arrangement of the huge
mammal collection brought together by the Survey. To this task
he brought all the enthusiasm and devotion he had given to his own
collection in Delavan. Results were soon apparent, and there was
no doubt among older heads that in Ned Hollister the Biological
Survey had a “find.” At the age of 30, largely self-taught, and
having an experience mainly of field work, he began to delve into
the hterature of mammalogy and to show a capacity for straight
thinking on matters relating to classification and nomenclature that
was surprising. It was simply a part of his great love for the
entire subject and, like the rest of it, he did it thoroughly and well.

On April 15, 1908, he was married to Miss Mabel Pfrimmer, of
Kentland, Ind. A house was bought in Washington and books and
other personal property were moved from Delavan. After a long
series of temporary appointments and furloughs, he was settled with
definite prospects of being able to pursue the study of the subjects
upon which his heart was set. His wife brought a fine sympathy
for his work and, especially by an extensive knowledge of modern
languages, was able to be of material assistance to him.

Late in 1909, Hollister accepted an offer of the position of assist-
ant curator of mammals in the United States National Museum and
took up his duties there January 3, 1910. Outwardly and aside from
the slight increase in salary, the change may have appeared to some
as mainly one of title, for at first it merely meant moving into a
new office and working on another collection housed in the same
building. But the difference was a very great one to him, for if
ever there was a man who belonged in a museum and nowhere else
it was Ned Hollister. From the days when the * Hollister Brothers’
Museum” grew from a single cowbird’s egg to the full occupancy
of two rooms in the Delavan home, nothing was more evident than
his passion for all phases of museum work. His first task in the
National Museum was a staggering one, but he went to it single
handed as blithesomely as a school boy sent to meet his father at
the circus. The new building had just been completed and the mam-
mal collection was moved to it in April, 1910. Mr. Miller, curator
of the division of mammals, was absent in Europe and, therefore,
Hollister found himself with the entire responsibility for moving,
installing, and rearranging the great reference collection. His own
report of the first stages of the work, submitted to the head curator
of biology July 1, and published in the Museum’s annual report,
is as follows:

After the study skins were moved to the new building, late in April, work

was at once begun on a thorough and careful systematic arrangement of the
entire collection, so badly needed for many years. The Primates, Carnivora,
606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Ungulata, Edentata, Marsupialia and Monotremata are now entirely arranged
in the new cases in perfect systematic order, so that any particular specimen,
or all of the specimens of a given group, can be found at a moment’s notice.
It is now possible to ascertain, in a short time, just what specimens the
museum possesses in any genus of these groups, and what material would be
desirable to build up and fill out the collection at its weak points.

How much this means can only be appreciated by those familiar
with the conditions under which the collection had been kept for
years in the old National Museum building where some 70,000 speci-
mens had been crowded into space scarcely sufficient for one-fourth
that number. The work so well begun was continued until all groups
were covered and for the first time in the memory of anyone now
living the mammal collection of the National Museum was or-
ganized and systematized as a mammal collection should be. The
great series of skeletons and the very numerous skulls of large size
unaccompanied by skins also were overhauled as well as the bulky
and very valuable cetacean material so well represented in the col-
lection. Nothing was slighted, but even Hollister could not stay on
such a task continuously, for there was so much of interest to be
done in other ways. So, with Mr. Miller’s encouragement, he seized
all opportunities to enter into the study of exotic mammals, a sub-
ject which was new and very attractive to him. In this way, in a few
years, he familiarized himself, so far as they were represented in the
Museum, with the mammal faunas of tropical America, the Philip-
pine Islands, Celebes, China, Siberia, and eastern Africa. He pub-
lished numerous papers covering a wide range of subjects and soon
became recognized as one from whom sound, carefully considered
contributions were to be expected.

He continued in this way for nearly seven years, only interrupted
by two important field trips in 1911 and 1912. The first of these was
to Jasper Park and the Mount Robson region of the Canadian
Rockies, where he was in charge of the Museum party including
J. H. Riley, C. D. Walcott, jr., and H. H. Blagdon, acting in co-
operation with the Alpine Club of Canada which afterwards pub-
lished his detailed report. ‘The second trip also was cooperative,
being made in conjunction with Dr. Theodore Lyman, of Boston,
and the Museum of Comparative Zoology. The objective was the
Altai Mountains of Siberia, entailing a journey to St. Petersburg
and thence across Russia and Siberia. Although the entire trip
lasted only four months and bad weather conditions were en-
countered, an important collection of mammals was made, includ-
ing 13 new species and subspecies as well as many others theretofore
unrepresented in any American museum.

Hollister’s life, while directly connected with the National Mu-
seum, was one that appeared to satisfy him completely. So fasci-
NED HOLLISTER

OSGOOD _ 607

nated was he with the nature of his work and so engrossed in each
problem encountered that he was accused of neglecting his friends
and failing to enjoy the social advantages with which Washington
abounded. Therefore, in November, 1916, when he was invited to
become superintendent of the National Zoological Park, which, like
the National Museum, is a subsidiary of the Smithsonian Institution,
he perhaps accepted with some misgivings. Although by his trans-
fer the Zoo gained a very competent officer, the Museum lost one
of the most gifted and devoted curators who ever sat in one of its
offices.

As superintendent of the National Zoological Park from Novem-
ber, 1916, until the date of his death, he led a somewhat different life,
still in Washington, still with many of the same personal associates,
and still in touch with the National Museum, but with many ex-
ecutive and administrative responsibilities which deprived him of
coveted time for study and research. His broad knowledge of
animals and his genius for order and system were brought to bear on
the problems of the Zoological Park with signal success. During
his administration, the collection of living animals became larger
and more varied than at any previous time. The attendance in-
creased until it reached a total of 2,400,000 visitors in 1923. The
grounds and animal quarters were improved in many ways. The
deer and other ruminants were given increased space, and their
yards, formerly much scattered, were brought together systematical-
ly to form an orderly and instructive series. One project in which
he took much personal pleasure was the forming of a special collec-
tion of American waterfowl. A small pond, previously used for mis-
cellaneous birds, was surrounded by enlarged space and made es-
pecially suitable for this purpose. The collection grew to contain
some 40 or 50 species and the conditions were so arranged that
nearly one-fourth of them laid their eggs and hatched young an-
nually. In presenting the needs of the park to Congress, Hollister
was also successful in years when appropriations for such purposes
were very difficult to obtain. Largely through his efforts, a valu-
able frontage on an important street was purchased and added to
the park area, thus insuring a highly desirable approach which
doubtless will be greatly appreciated in future years. In his rela-
tions with the numerous employees of the park, from gardeners,
gatekeepers, and policemen to office associates, he was exceptionally
sympathetic and universally popular. Besides his annual report,
which was prepared and published each year, he produced a popular
illustrated guide to the animals in the park which had a large sale,
probably exceeding 30,000 copies.

Despite the distractions of his responsible position, Hollister still
found time for research, probably in many cases by burning the mid-
608 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

.

night oil. His output of shorter papers continued at a somewhat
reduced rate, but was still varied in character. During his last years
he was occupied chiefly with a large work involving much biblio-
graphic search and much handling of material. This was his East’
African Mammals in the United States National Museum, which
appeared in three volumes in 1918, 1919, and 1923, respectively. It
was his most important contribution to mammalogy. Ostensibly a
report on the East African collections made by Theodore Roosevelt,
Paul Rainey, and others, it was in reality a full résumé of the his-
tory, nomenclature, and relationships of one of the largest (prob-
ably the very largest) mammal faunas now existing. With the
possible exception of his good wife, no one knows the amount of
fidelity and care he devoted to this nor under what difficulties it
was done.

His full bibliography appears at the end of this article. It
may be said here only that it comprises well over 150 titles, im-
portant among which are: The Birds of Wisconsin (1903), A
Systematic Synopsis of the Muskrats (1911), Mammals of the
Philippine Islands (1911), Mammals of the Alpine Club Expedi-
tion to Mount Robson (1913), Mammals Collected by the Smith-
sonian-Harvard Expedition to the Altai Mountains (1913), A Sys-
tematic Account of the Grasshopper Mice (1914), and East African
Mammals in the United States National Museum (1918-1919-
1923). In the course of his field work, he collected the type speci-
mens of 26 mammals, and the new mammals named by him total 162.

Mr. Hollister was a member of various scientific societies, many of
which saw fit to honor him with office as well as to avail themselves of
his most capable services. He was for a time an associate editor of
the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences, having served
his apprenticeship on the publication committee of the Biological
Society of Washington. In 1921 the Biological Society elected him
its president, and his name was thus added to a roster of presidents
including most of the leading zoologists and botanists who have
lived in Washington during the past half century. He was a cor-
responding member of the Zoological Society of London. He was
one of the signers of the original call for the organization of the
American Society of Mammalogists, and one of the principal par-
ticipants in its actual launching. At the first meeting in April,
1919, discussion quickly focussed on whether or not Hollister would
or could find the time to serve gratuitously as editor of the Journal.
He would, and he could, and he did with such results as all of us
have seen, in the faultlessly neat, accurate, and scholarly journal
which he has produced for us for the critical period of the first
five years of the society’s existence. That it was no small burden to
Smithsonian

Report, 1925.—Osgood

NeEpD HOLLISTER
NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 609

him there can be no doubt. At a special meeting of the directors of
the society held November 20, 1924, a brief memorial resolution was
adopted, and it may be ventured that no board of directors ever
passed a similar resolution in which the literal sentiments expressed
were more keenly felt by every member. It is as follows:

In the death of Ned Hollister, charter member and editor of our Journal
since its establishment, the American Society of Mammalogists has sustained
an irreparable loss. But most of all each of us mourns the departure of a warm
personal friend. We shall long miss him for his congenial companionship, his
ready helpfulness, his unvarying patience, his keen intellect, his scientific skill,
his sterling worth. Therefore we, representatives of the society, hereby record
our deep grief in the loss of our friend and coworker, and our keen appreciation
of his rare qualities as a scientist and as a man; and we extend to his bereaved
widow, his mother, his brothers and sister, our heartfelt sympathy in the greater
sorrow which is theirs.

No further summary of his character and achievements seems nec-
essary. A man loved, respected, and honored has gone from a small
company. It is, indeed, a very small company, for if we take stock
of ourselves, we can not but realize how few are the real students of
mammals. The type represented by Ned Hollister is one which,
under present economic and social conditions in this country, seems
threatened with extinction while yet the need for it continues to be
very great. Therefore, his passing before his time is the more to
be regretted. We mourn a genial friend beloved for his attractive
human qualities, and we deplore the absence of a colleague of trained
ability ; but, when we look for his like among the coming generation,
we are brought to the distressing realization that this is not all, for
no one stands ready to fill the gap in the ranks.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NED HOLLISTER, 1892-1925

Hollister’s first paper, The House Sparrow in America, was pub-
lished in 1892, his last, A Modern Menagerie: More about the Na-
tional Zoological Park, appeared in 1925, nearly a year after his
death. The total number of titles that I have been able to find is
165. Preparing this list has been made easy by the systematic and
careful manner in which all of the articles up to the end of 1922 had
been catalogued and bound by their author. These bound volumes,
through Mrs. Hollister’s kindness, are now at my disposal. Without
them it would have been nearly impossible to find many of the
earlier printed notes so important to an understanding of the writer’s
later development. In these short articles written by the boy of 16
to 20 years we already see that combination of enthusiasm and clear
judgment which afterward became the main characteristic of the
trained zoologist. “ Floridan Races,” printed in The Oologist of

2 Prepared by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.
610 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

June 1893, before its author was 17 years old, is a good example.
The later papers are noteworthy for clearness and convenience of
arrangement, for the soundness of the views which they contain,
and for the breadth of the field which they cover.

Up to and including the year 1908 Hollister’s publications relate
exclusively to birds. From 1909 onward they are chiefly devoted
to mammals, with occasional returns to the field of ornithology and
a single excursion into herpetology (February 17, 1913; No. 58). In
the lists which follow I have first enumerated the titles chronologi-
cally, and have then arranged the 167 new names—generic, sub-
generic, specific, and subspecific—alphabetically, placing after each
the serial number of the article in which it was printed and the page
on which it first occurs.

1892

1. The House Sparrow in America. Tazvidermist, vol. 1, pp. 121-122. April,
1892.

2. Notes from Southern Wisconsin. Oologist, vol. 9, pp. 147-148. May, 1892.

3. Wisconsin Swallows. Yazidermist, vol. 1, pp. 150-152. June, 1892.

1893

4. Floridan Races. Oologist, vol. 10, pp. 176-178. June, 1893.
5. Ducks in Southern Wisconsin. Ornithologist and Oologist, vol. 18, pp.
128-129. September, 1893.

1894
6. Some Winter Bird Life. Oologist, vol. 11, pp. 207-209. June, 1894.

1896

7. Notes from Southern Wisconsin. Wilson Bulletin, No. 8, pp. 2-3. May 30,

1896.
8. Evening Grosbeak in Southern Wisconsin. Awk, vol. 13, pp. 259-260. July,

1896.
9. Recent Record of the Passenger Pigeon in Southern Wisconsin. Auk, vol.
13, p. 341, October, 1896.
1897

10. Young of the Killdeer (Aegialitis vocifera). Wilson Bulletin, No. 12, p. 4.
January 30, 1897.
11. Southern Wisconsin Notes. Wilson Bulletin, No. 12, pp. 4-5. January 30,
1897.
1899

12. Passenger Pigeon Note. Recreation, vol. 11, p. 184. August, 1899.
1901

13. Helminthophila pinus in Wisconsin. Wilson Bulletin, No. 35, pp. 30-32.
May 30, 1901.
14. Capture of Sabines Gull in Wisconsin. Awk, vol, 18, p. 392. October, 1901.
15.

16.

ge

NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 611

1902

Notes on the Winter Birds of Arkansas. Wilson Bulletin, No. 38, pp. 10-15.
March, 1902.
The Yellow Rail (Porzana noveboracensis) in Wisconsin. Auk, vol. 19,
p. 197. April, 1902.
1903

The Birds of Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc., vol. 3, pp. 1-148.
January, April, and July, 1903.

1908

. As to Spring Shooting. Recreation, vol. 27, p. 80. February, 1908.

. Breeding of the Acadian Owl in Newton County, Indiana. Awk, vol. 25,
p. 221. April, 1908.
. Birds of the Region about Needles, California. Awk, vol. 25, pp. 455-462.
October, 1908.
1909

. Two New Bats from the Southwestern United States. Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 22, pp. 48-44. March 10, 1909.

. Notes on Wisconsin Mammals. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc., vol. 6, pp.

137-142. (October, 1908), April, 1909.

. The Last Records of Deer in Walworth County, Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin

Nat. Hist. Soc., vol. 6, pp. 148-144. (October, 1908.) April, 1909.

1910

. Descriptions of Two New Muskrats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
23, pp. 1-2. February 2, 1910.

. Mammals Collected by John Jay White in British East Africa. Smithsonian

Misc. Coll., vol. 56, No. 2, pp. 1-12, pls. 1-2. March 31, 1910.

. A Check-list of Wisconsin Mammals. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc., vol.
8, pp. 21-31. (January, 1910), May 7, 1910.

. Notes on Some Names of Lions. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 23,
p. 128. September 2, 1910.

. A New Muskrat from the Great Plains. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

23, pp. 125-126. September 2, 1910.

. Two New African Ratels. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 56, No. 13, pp. 1-3.

October 10, 1910.
1911

. A New Musk-Deer from Korea. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 24, pp.
1-2. January 28, 1911.

. The Generic Name of the Muskrat. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
24, pp. 13-14. January 28, 1911.

. The Type Locality of Mellivora abyssinica. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 24, p. 37. February 24, 1911.

. New Bird Records for Delavan, Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc.,

vol. 8, pp. 187-188. (October, 1910), March 20, 1911.

. Remarks on the Long-tailed Shrews of the Eastern United States, with
Description of a New Species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 40, pp. 377-881.
April 17, 1911.

5. A Systematic Synopsis of the Muskrats. North Amer. Fauna, No. 382, pp.

1-47, pls. 1-6. April 29, 1911.
612 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

36

. Two New Species of Epimys from Luzon. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
24, pp. 89-90. May 15, 1911.

. The Louisiana Puma. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 24, pp. 175-178.
June 16, 1911.

. Description of a New Philippine Flying-Squirrel. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 24, pp. 185-186. June 23, 1911.

. The Generic Name of the African Buffalo. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

24, pp. 191-194. June 23, 1911.

. The Nomenclature of the Cheetahs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
24, pp. 225-226. October 31, 1911.

. Four New Mammals from the Canadian Rockies. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,
vol. 56, No. 26, pp. 14. December 5, 1911.

1912

. Description of a new Water Mungoose from East Africa. Proc. Biol. Soe.

Washington, vol. 25, pp. 1-2. January 23, 1912.

. New Mammals from Canada, Alaska, and Kamchatka. Smithsonian Mise.

Coll., vol. 56, No. 35, pp. 1-8, pls. 1-8. February 7, 1912.

. Description of a new subspecies of Monkey from British East Africa.

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 59, No. 3, pp. 1-2. March 2, 1912.

. Two new American Pikas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, pp. 57-58.

April 13, 1912,

. The Trinidad Opossum on Martinique. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

25, p. 98. May 4, 1912.

. The Mona Monkey on the Island of St. Kitts. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,

vol. 25, p. 98. May 4, 1912.

. The Earliest name for the Cape Ratel. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

25, p. 96. May 4, 1912.

. A list of the Mammals of the Philippine Islands, exclusive of the Cetacea.

The Philippine Journ. Sci., vol. 7, pp. 1-64. February, 1912.

0. Some Erroneous Wisconsin Bird Records. Awk, vol. 29, pp. 397-899. July

6, 1912.

. New Mammals from the Highlands of Siberia. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.

60, No. 14, pp. 1-6. November 29, 1912.

. Five New Mammals from Asia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, pp.

181-184. December 24, 1912.

. The Names of the Rocky Mountain Goats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,

vol. 25, pp. 185-186. December 24, 1912.

. On a specimen of Ovis californiana Douglas in the National Museum. Proc.

Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, p. 187. December 24, 1912.

1913

55. Two new Polecats related to Mustela larvata. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,

vol. 26, pp. 1-8. January 18, 1913.

. Description of a new Gazelle from Northwestern Mongolia. Smithsonian

Misc. Coll., vol. 60, No. 19, pp. 1-2. February 8, 1913.

. Mammals of the Alpine Club Expedition to the Mount Robson Region.
The Canadian Alpine Journal, Special No., pp. 1-44, pls. 1-13 (1912).
February 17, 1913.

. List of Reptiles and Batrachians of the Alpine Club Expedition to the
Mount Robson Region. The Canadian Alpine Journal, Special No., pp.
45-46. (1912) February 17, 1913.
NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 613

59. Two new Mammals from the Siberian Altai. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
60, No. 24, pp. 1-3. March 13, 1913.

60. The Type Species of Cuniculus Brisson. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
26, p. 79. March 22, 1913.

61. A Synopsis of the American Minks. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp.
471-480. April 18, 1913.

62. Two New Philippine Fruit Bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 26, pp.
111-112. May 38, 1918.

63. Mammals Collected by the Smithsonian-Harvard Expedition to the Altai
Mountains, 1912. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 45, pp. 507-532, pls. 37-42.
June 21, 1913.

64. Two New Bats of the Genus Taphozous. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
26, pp. 157-158. June 30, 1918.

65. The Zoological Expedition of Dr. Theodore Lyman to the Altai Mountains,
Siberia, and Mongolia. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 60, No. 30, pp. 7-9,
figs. 7-10. July 3, 1918.

66. Three New Subspecies of Grasshopper Mice. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 26, pp. 215-216. December 20, 1913.

67. A Review of the Philippine Land Mammals in the United States National
Museum. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 46, pp. 299-841, pls. 27-29. Decem-
ber 31, 1913.

6S. A New Name for the Marmot of the Canadian Rockies. Science, n. 8., vol.
39, p. 251. November 5, 1913.

1914

69. Four New Neotropical Rodents. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 27, pp.
57-59. March 20, 1914.

70. Camps in the Altai. Canadian Alpine Journal, vol. 5, pp. 73-81. (1913)
May, 1914.

71. Four New Mammals from Tropical America. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 27, pp. 103-106. May 11, 1914.

72. [Review of Lyon: Treeshrews. ] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 4, No.
12, pp. 330-3831. June 14, 1914.

73. Descriptions of four new Mammals from Tropical America. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 27, pp. 141-144. July 10, 1914.

74-75-76. [Reviews of (a) Roosevelt and Heller, (b) Andrews, and (c) Grin-
nell.] Die Natuwrwissenschaften, vol. 2, pp. 719-721. July 17, 1914.

77. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 4, No. 14,
p. 427. August 19, 1914.

78. A Systematic Account of the Grasshopper Mice. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 47, pp. 427-489, pl. 15. October 29, 1914.

79. New Mammals from Costa Rica and Mexico. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 27, pp. 209-210. October 31, 1914.

80. The Systematic Name of the Brazilian Crab-Eating Raccoon. Proc. Biol.
Soc. Washington, vol. 27, p. 215. October 31, 1914.

81. The Technical Names of the Common Skunk and Mink of the Eastern States.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 27, p. 215. October 31, 1914.

82. On the Systematic Names of the Cheetahs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 27, p. 216. October 31, 1914.

83. The Spotted Tiger-Cat in Texas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 27, p.
219. October 31, 1914.

76041—26——_40
614 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

84.

86.

91.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

Two New South American Jaguars. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 48, pp.
169-170, pl. 5. December 16, 1914.

1915

. The Type Locality of Pecari tajacu. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 28,

p. 69. March 12, 1915.
A New Name for the White-Tailed Jack Rabbit. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 28, p. 70. March 12, 1915.

. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 5, No. 9,

pp. 324-325. May 4, 1915.

. The Systematic Name of the Mexican Spider Monkey. Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 28, p. 142. June 29, 1915.

. The Genera and Subgenera of Raccoons and their Allies. Proc. U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 49, pp. 143-150, pls. 38-39. August 13, 1915.
. The Specific Name of the Striped Muishond of South Africa. Proc. Biol.

Soc. Washington, vol. 28, p. 184. November 29, 1915.
1916

Descriptions of a New Genus and Eight New Species and Subspecies of
African Mammals. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 66, No. 1, pp. 1-8.
February 10, 1916.

. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 6, No. 4,

pp. 96-97. February 19, 1916.

. Three new African Shrews of the Genus Crocidura. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,

vol. 66, No. 8, pp. 1-3. May 22, 1916.

. The Generic Names Epimys and Rattus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., vol. 29,

p. 126. June 6, 1916.

. A Systematic Account of the Prairie-Dogs. North American sien No. 40,

pp. 1-87, pls. 1-7. June 20, 1916.

. Resolutions on death of Prof. W. W. Cook. Science, n. s., vol. 48, p. 941.

June 30, 1916.

. The Type Species of Rattus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 29, pp.

206-207. September 22, 1916.

. Shrews Collected by the Congo Expedition of the American Museum. Bull.

American Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 35, Art. 35, pp. 663-680, pls. 7-11. October
21, 1916.

Three New Murine Rodents from Africa. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 66,
No. 10, pp. 1-8. October 26, 1916.

1917

[References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 7, No. 2,
p. 41. January 19, 1917.

Some Effects of Environment and Habit on Captive Lions. Proc. U. S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 53, pp. 177-193, pls. 22-25. June 1, 1917.

The Black Vulture in the District of Columbia and Maryland. Il’roc. Biol.
Soc. Washington, vol. 30, p. 128. July 27, 1917.

The Trumpeter Swan (Letter to R. M. Barnes). Oologist, vol. 34, pp.
176-178. October 15, 1917.

Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1917].
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1917, pp.
71-87, pls. 1-2. December 13, 1917. Reprinted in Smithsonian Report
for 1917, December 29, 1919,
105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

af

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

123.

124,

NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 615

1918

New Rodents from British East Africa. Smithsonian Mise. Coll, vol. 68,
No. 10, pp. 1-3. January 16, 1918.

Report of the Superintendent of the National Zoological Park for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1917. Ann. Report Smithsonian Inst. 1917.
Issued as separate, February 7, 1918.

A Sanctuary within a Sanctuary. Bird-Lore, vol. 20, pp. 158-159. April,
1918,

The Domestication of the Llama. Science, n. s., vol. 47, p. 461. May
10, 1918.

A New Hare from British East Africa. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
31, pp. 35-386. May 16, 1918.

The Earliest Technical Name for the Portuguese Ibex. Proc. Biol. Soe.
Washington, vol. 31, p. 98. June 29, 1918.

The Yellow Rail in the District of Columbia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol, 31, p. 98. June 29, 1918.

A New Name for an African Rat. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 31, p.
97. June 29, 1918.

International Zoology and the International Code. Science, n. s., vol. 48,
pp. 12-13. July 5, 1918.

East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part I.
Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Carnivora. Bull. 99, U. S. Nat. Mus., pt. 1,
pp. 1-194, pls. 1-55. August 16, 1918.

[Abstract of Goldman’s “The Rice Rats of North America (Genus
Oryzomys).”] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 8, No. 20, pp. 659-660.
December 4, 1918.

Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1918].
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1918, pp.
66-81. December 12, 1918. Issued as separate with date 1919; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1918, September 28, 1920.

1919

Brooding Habit of the American Coot. Auwk, vol. 36, p. 102. January
5, 1919.

[Abstract of “East African Mammals in the United States National
Museum. Part I.”] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 9, No. 2, p. 50.
January 19, 1919.

. The Generic Names Anoa and Bubalus.. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

32, p. 45. April 11, 1919.

. A New Name for the Wild Sheep of Northeastern China. Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 32, p. 46. April 11, 1919.

. “Mammals” in symposium on “ What kind of characters distinguish a

species from a subdivision of a species.” Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,
No. 8, vol. 9, p. 235. April 19, 1919.

. East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part II.

Rodentia, Lagomorpha, and Tubulidentata. Bull. 99, U. S. Nat. Mus.,
pt. 2, pp. 1-184, pls. 1-44. May 16, 1919.

[Abstract of Hollister’s “East African Mammals in the United States
National Museum. Part I1.”] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 9,
No. 12, p. 348. June 19, 1919.

The Systematic Position of the Ring-necked Duck. Awk, vol. 386, pp.
460-463. October 31, 1919.
140.

143.

144,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 47-49. November

28, 1919.

. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1919].

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1919, pp.
68-81. December 11, 1919. Issued as separate with date 1920; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1919, September 30, 1921.

. Some Changes in the Summer Bird Life at Delavan, Wisconsin. Wilson

Bull., No. 109, pp. 108-108. December, 1919.

. The National Zoological Park: A Popular Account of its Collections.

Annual Report Smithsonian Institution for 1917, pp. 548-593, pls. 1-46.
December 29, 1919.
1920

~

. Two New East African Primates. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 72, No. 2,

pp. 1-2. January 22, 1920.

. Segregation of Male Mallards. Condor, vol. 22, pp. 36-87. January 26,

1920.

. Editorial Comment. Jowrn. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 108-110. March

2, 1920.

2. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 159-160. June

19, 1920.

. Relative Abundance of Wild Ducks at Delavan, Wisconsin. Auk, vol. 37,

pp. 367-371. July 14, 1920.

. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 197-199. August

24, 1920.

5. Popular Guide to the National Zoological Park. Published by the Smith-

sonian Institution. October, 1920.

. Dates of Shedding of Horns. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 244-245.

December 4, 1920.

. [Review of Fitzsimons’ “The Natural History of South Africa. Mam-

mals.” Vols. 1 and 2.] Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 5, p. 246. December
4, 1920.

. Editorial Comment. Jowrn. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 250-252. December

4, 1920.

. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1920].

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1920, pp.
75-89. December 9, 1920. Issued as separate with date 1920; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1920, May 18, 1922.

1921

[Review of Fitzsimons’ “The Natural History of South Africa. Mam-
mals.” Vols. 3 and 4.] Journ. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 41-42. Feb-
ruary 10, 1921.

. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 50-51. February

10, 1921.

. Descriptions of Sixteen New Murine Rodents from Celebes. (Joint author-

ship with Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 34,
pp. 67-76. March 31, 1921.

The Names for Two Genera of African Artiodactyla. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 34, p. 77. March 31, 1921.

[Review of Gregory’s ‘A Review of the Evolution of the Lacrymal Bone
of Vertebrates with Special Reference to that of Mammals.”] Journ.
Mamm., vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 118-119. May 2, 1921.
145.

146.

151.

159.

160.

161.

NED HOLLISTER—OSGOOD 617

Collections of Living Animals for the National Zoological Park. Siifh-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 72, No. 6, pp. 59-63, figs. 72-76. May 12, 1921.
Twenty [two] New Mammals Collected by H. C. Raven in Celebes. (Joint
authorship with Gerrit 8. Miller, jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

34, pp. 98-104. June 30, 1921.

. A New Name for the West African Pygmy Squirrel. Proc. Biol. Soe.

Washington, vol. 34, pp. 185. June 30, 1921.

. [Review of Pohle’s ‘‘Die Unterfamilie der Lutrinae.”] Journ. Mamm.,

vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 177-178. August 19, 1921.

. The Willow Thrush in the District of Columbia. Awk, vol. 38, p. 463.

(July) October 5, 1921.

. [Review of Osgood’s “A Monographic Study of the American Marsupial,

Czenolestes.”] Jowrn. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 241-242. November
29, 1921.

Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1921].
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1921, pp.
84-99. December 8, 1921. Issued as separate with date 1921; reprinted
in Smithsonian Report for 1921, June 29, 1923.

1922

. Wild Turkeys Cross Seas on Board the S. 8. Mesaba. Ocean Ferry, vol.

1, No. 9, p., 16. June, 1922:

. A New Phalanger from Celebes. (Joint authorship with Gerrit S. Miller,

jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 35, pp. 115-116. October 17, 1922.

. A New Hyrax from East Africa. Proc, Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 35, p.

135. October 17, 1922.

. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1922].

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1922, pp.
88-103. December 14, 1922. Issued as separate with date 1922; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1922, October 9, 1924.

1923

. Museum Preservation of Incisor Teeth of Ruminantia. Journ. Mamm.,

vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 123-125, fig. 1. May 9, 1923.

. [Review of Cabrera’s “Manual de Mastozoologia.”] Journ. Mamm., vol.

4, No. 2, pp. 180-131. May 9, 1923.

. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1923].

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1923, pp.
87-103. December 13, 1928. Issued as separate with date 1923; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1923, June 27, 1925.

1924

East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part III.
Primates, Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla, Proboscidea, and Hyracoidea.
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 99, pt. 3, pp. I-VIII, 1-164, pls. 1-57. July 20,
1924.

[Review of J. A. Allen’s “Carnivora Collected by the American Museum
Congo Expedition.”] Journ. Mamm., vol. 5, No. 3, p. 209. August
11, 1924.

Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 80, 1924].
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1924, pp.
89-104. December 11, 1924. Issued as separate with date 1925; re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1924. November 13, 1925.
618

162. Another Record of the Ruddy Quail-Dove at Key West.

130. January 2, 1925.

163. The Systematic Name of the Texas Armadillo.

p. 60. February 9, 1925.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925

Auk, vol. 42, p.

Journ. Mamm., vol. 6, No. 1,

164. Animals in the National Zoological Park. Annual Report, Smithsonian

Institution, 1923, pp. 291-888, pls. 1-29.

June 6. 1925.

165. A Modern Menagerie: More about the National Zoological Park. Annual
Report, Smithsonian Institution, 1924, pp. 249-278, pls. 1-18. October

24, 1925.

GENERIC AND SUBGENERIC

NAMES

Cercoctenus, 91, p. 1.
Eropeplus, 146, p. 94.
Leucocrossuromys, 95, p. 23.
Melasmothrix, 146, p. 938.
Nasuella, 89, p. 148.

SPECIFIC AND SUBSPECIFIC NAMES

Allactaga grisescens, 51, p. 2.
Apodemus nigritalus, 59, p. 1.
Apomys microdon, 67, p. 327.
Arvicanthis abyssinicus centrosus, 99,
ed be
Ateles tricolor, 73, p. 141.
Callospermophilus lateralis tescorum,
41, p. 2:
Cebus capucinus limitaneus, 71, p. 105.
Cebus margarite, 71, p. 105.
Chaerephon luzonus, 67, p. 312.
Chaerephon pumilus naivashe, 91, p 4.
Cheiromeles parvidens, 146, p. 100.
Crocidura caliginea, 98, p. 664.
Crocidura congobelgica, 98, p. 670.
Crocidura daphnia, 93, p. 1.
Crocidura elongata, 146, p. 101.
Crocidura latona, 98, p. 667.
Crocidura lea, 146, p. 102.
Crocidura levicula, 146, p. 103.
Crocidura ludia, 98, p. 668.
Crocidura nigripes, 146, p. 101.
Crocidura nigripes lipara, 146, p. 101.
Crocidura oritis, 98, p. 666.
Crocidura parvipes nisa, 93, p. 2.
Crocidura polia, 98, p. 669.
Crocidura rhoditis, 146, p. 102.
Crocidura simiolus, 93, p. 3.
Cyclopes mexicanus, 79, p. 210.
Cynomys gunnisoni zuniensis, 95, p. 32.
Dasymys helukus nigridius, 99, p. 2.
Echiothrix brevicula, 142, p. 67.
Echiothrix centrosa, 142, p. 67.
Epimys basilanus, 67, p. 322.
Epimys benguetensis, 67, p. 323.

Epimys calcis, 36, p. 89.

Epimys coloratus, 67, p. 317.

Epimys leucophzatus, 67, p. 320.

Epimys mayonicus, 67, p. 319.

Epimys ornatulus, 67, p. 322.

Epimys querceti, 36, p. 90.

Epimys robiginosus, 67, p. 318.

EXpimys vigoratus, 67, p. 321.

Eptesicus ugands, 91, p. 3.

Hropeplus canus, 146, p. 95.

Hrythrocebus whitei, 25, p. 11.

HKutamias asiaticus altaicus, 52, p. 183.

EHutamias ludibundus, 41, p. 1.

Felis arundivaga, 37, p. 176.

Felis notialis, 84, p. 170.

Felis paraguensis, 84, p. 169.

Fiber nebracensis, 35, p. 32.

Fiber oregonus, 35, p. 33.

Fiber zibethicus cinnamomeus, 28, p.
125.

Fiber zibethicus mergens, 24, p. 1.

Fiber zibethicus zalophus, 24, p. 1.

Galago sotiksx, 129, p. 1.

Genetta pumila, 91, p. 4.

Harpyionycteris celebensis, 146, p. 99.

Helogale undulata affinis, 91, p. 7.

Heterohyrax brucei albipes, 154, p.
135.

Hydrocheerus hydrocheeris notialis, 69,
p. 58.

Lagostomus maximus petillidens, 69,
p. 58.

Lasiopyga pygerythra callida, 44, p. 1.

Lasiopyga pygerythra contigua, 129,
p. 2.
NED HOLLISTER

Lenomys longicaudus, 146, p. 95.

Lepus aurigineus, 52, p. 181.

Lepus brachyurus angustidens, 52, p.
183.

Lepus capensis abbotti, 109, p. 35.

Lepus quercerus, 52, p. 182.

Lepus swinhoei sowerbyie, 52, p 182.

Lepus townsendii campanius, 86, p. 70.

Limnomys mearnsi, 67, p. 324.

Limnomys picinus, 67, p. 325.

Loncheres flavidus, 78, p. 148.

Marmota oxytona, 68, p. 251.

Marmota sibila, 48, p. 1.

Mazama tema cerasina, 79, p. 209.

Melasmothrix naso, 146, p. 94.

Mellivora abyssinica, 29, p. 1.

Mellivora sagulata, 29, p. 2.

Miniopterus paululus, 67, p. 311.

Moschus parvipes, 30, p. 1.

Mungos albicaudus dialeucos, 91, p. 6.

Mungos paludinosus rubescens, 42, p.
fl:

Mungos sanguineus parvipes, 91, p. 5.

Mus bellus petilus, 99, p. 3.

Mustela lineiventer, 55, p. 2.

Mustela lymani, 51, p. 5.

Mustela meridana, 73, p. 148.

Mustela tiarata, 55, p. 2.

Mustela vison letifera, 61, p. 475.

Myocastor coypus santacruzexe, 69, p.
57.

Myopus morulus, 51, p. 1.

Myosciurus minutulus, 147, p. 135.

Myotis altifrons, 41, p. 3.

Myotis baileyi, 21, p. 44.

Myotis oceultus, 21, p. 43.

Myotis pernox, 41, p. 4.

Myotis petax, 51, p. 6.

Nannosciurus surrutilus, 67, p. 313.

Nectomys squamipes pollens, 71, p. 104.

Cchotona levis, 45, p. 57.

Ochotona nitida, 51, p. 4.

Ochotona uinta, 45, p. 58.

Onychomys leucogaster breviauritus,
66, p. 216.

Onychomys leucogaster capitulatus, 66,
p. 215.

Onychomys torridus clarus, 66, p. 215.

Onychomys torridus surrufus, 78, p.
472.

Oreamnos americanus columbis, 53, p.
186.

Oryx annectens, 25, p. 7.

Ourebia microdon, 25, p. 4.

OSGOOD 619

Ovis comosa, 120, p. 46.

Pachyura occultidens, 67, p. 303.

Pedetes surdaster currax, 105, p. 3.

Pedetes surdaster larvalis, 105, p. 2.

Phalanger furvus, 158, p. 115.

Philander centralis, 71, p. 103.

Phodopus crepidatus, 51, p. 3.

Pithecus mindorus, 67, p. 328.

Procapra altaica, 56, p. 1.

Procyon lotor crassidens, 73, p. 142.

Proechimys rubellus, 69, p. 57.

Pteropus arquatus, 146, p. 100.

Pteropus balutus, 62, p. 111.

Pteropus mearnsi, 62, p. 112.

Rangifer excelsifrons, 48, p. 5.

Rangifer fortidens, 48, p. 3.

Rangifer phylarchus, 48, p. 6.

Rattus adspersus, 142, p. 71.

Rattus coucha tinctus, 105, p. 1.

Rattus dominator camurus, 146, p. 96.

Rattus facetus, 146, p. 96.

Rattus hamatus, 146, p. 97.

Rattus helleri, 112, p. 97.

Rattus hellwaldii cereus, 142, p. 74.

Rattus hellwaldii localis, 142, p. 74.

Rattus hoffmanni linduensis, 142, p. 70.

Rattus hoffmanni subditivus, 142, p.
70.

Rattus mollicomus, 142, p. 71.

Rattus musschenbroekii tetricus, 142,
p. 68.

Rattus nigellus, 142, p. 72.

Rattus palele, 142, p. 69.

Rattus penitus, 142, p. 72.

Rattus punicans, 146, p. 98.

Rattus rallus, 142, p. 73.

Rattus raveni, 142, p. 68.

Rattus raveni eurous, 142, p. 69.

Rattus sericatus, 142, p. 73.

Rhinolophus keniensis, 91, p. 2.

Rusa nigellus, 67, p. 332.

Sciuropterus crinitus, 38, p. 185.

Sciurus evidens, 146, p. 99.

Sciurus murinus necopinus, 146, p. 98.

Sicista napsea, 51, p. 2.

Sorex fontinalis, 34, p. 378.

Sorex roboratus, 59, p. 2.

Surdisorex polulus, 91, p. 1.

Sylvisorex oriundus, 98, p. 672.

Taphonycteris capito, 67, p. 308.

Taphozous cavaticus, 64, p. 157.

Taphozous solifer, 64, p. 157.

Tarsius fuscus dentatus, 146, p. 103.

Tarsius pumilus, 146, p. 103.
; Mi csi, riage aie : mY

repos enh Ty te Ot f ye Uy ft bur

anes Rey ; * yer r;

RR g
Ere dhledes

cb Sib pate * dow ; r
>. see Ke RS at) Fal : i "2 on
f) Ske" yomn Gee abtaste wik
: ; S, Tug Be fe ie aris 1 rite
Tou “ | ro - ; ; oa ois
i 4 A Ft oe aie s ' 19 } oon) io
VG sitar
ia rsa r or) ef . nares
| ow

eae s

7 G Pr te vie _
mir

pus: Re | or wig
ar J arr bat £0.,4 is art hee Lago

of id atotnot bi

Oe aan
pic

~~ :
ais pl SB ar Rie aabortttatw dod int
d ve + Me 4
! de MA ie voLidwiesy
4 en ey, e P Tr ey)
; Way De paiitoralee pe
7 —- q i, # »
7 a 4 { ee d parraqr ha ng
i Nee Sf 9 OL watriuet ‘etaue: y
‘Mt Ab Ot pitastiry dt titrant
7 7 F wae re
; : Me A ;
: on vel OVE ER) sat as?
‘ ye
x 3 fy 4h iH i
} . Aly: i 2) il aa Wier
: 4 i } st "et .
~ ; é 4 ; , aie WL 7 au
Oy as ate peetant ifm nan » ' os
r } ; 4d ‘Ait maT
Bi > BAL how hhibilus lenioton. wiki. a SRE ay Ais “hn ‘ied tals
‘ 7 g ‘ ‘ ’ a Pay . i Ace UP pa’: ia
: ! ove yr J Pt os Bo “al if) lites
A 2 iG 5 Ht oy ut na) rho , At Re at ets ith
a ; ) | wal ‘ ai 2 + Hun dai vip tod
, i : , te “ 45:
+ “uu ‘. Pa
4 ‘ ,
, P jilels) wip) Aye ar ; 13
t “6 “4 i ae” oll
a rae ro a Tak ‘ othe
4 bs Rab 4
BF fens band) [ vee! a tt ba!
a 4 Ail L bit isd, 4
- ; Wate " H i .
'. Aiba
7 ‘
P, F J i? a aif oe ‘ ' :
‘ so iy Cfiviaem &utta2 Rots a My oy LST
ihe 4 t ; 4 whet a)
us 0 oben etyapuioue i +4 ire Aut lod titre!
‘ : wie = | MEA, AMD
> itd 24h Qo J ee i it rae
in : ’ ‘ :
t cc Lt Mite ae FS oF
ete re eae
4 f q : +  ¢ ait: ir ;
matt : ae Derry ite Fa eich
\ : SEALED,
' ‘ if ‘Se : 7 * wie ~ A
4 - we ’
: ot ray ‘ #3 ening peat
: r :
=) i, a mt
' } . ie hit Pyd i ar. MP 4 Pa ap, ‘ot BLOF
: 4 my 4 oa v
Me YA Ab hs, Datichatrs a pte “abt
“ by f . Nhe Pome be
‘ aM : ‘ 7
; © alr 4 . 7 ‘st... ee
+ : ‘ Tee |
: Ts qo eosin “co td 4 Wine! bial ge
‘ sisal sit ; : a iting . nivh gs
y by } on ks “7? ) oll
: ee | M ; ar
‘ 4 ' , - Leate y a
. a : o. 9, S7
f ; Pe
Ae
ba. ut
mie

INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, Dr. Charles G., assistant secretary of the Institution _._____-_-__--- xalp
x11, 2, 24, 86, 102, 104, 106
Alb botae Drs. Willits rr Wipes ee pe ee eet ee eye pn Wee one 4,7
Haitian, botanicalexpeditione 25h Se ee es eee ad ee 124
NaS: “Hlier erty yh a ae pst ep a aa a 49, 50, 51
Adams: Washington less = ane Re a a ed i oe yeas A OL 20, 111
Agriculture, Secretary of (member of the Institution)-_---_.---------_- Xa
Agriculture, United States Department of___---------------------- 29, 40, 58
PC ATOR AR ise) a es ae TO ee Bees cee ee ak kT tee A ale 106
DNSTSESSSU BINT ZG ole Shy eles OE ee ee eee ea ere Pe red Sr a LN ee 4
TNS Wesel pie Deel JR GING Se RR I a ge er eee es are XII
TAN We BR RR 2 SE 2 IE ev See eR xu, 105
Aull Otinents LOtLpEmigiig meme See bo aoe oe ees Ce a lea 15
American, Pegeration Oh Abts 2s =. 55 20 2 ae ee ee 19, 55
and the Federation of Women’s Clubs, activities of the____-------- 51
Mimericsn Hederstlon oi wbapors 9.2 ey ee ae a a ee 2 55
american, Historical Association, reports: <2. ~..+-=2--+4~-=-- 24% 14, 15, 116
AINETICATUNEhEOLO] O PTCA SOCLE tyes y= ese 102
Animalsiterat, highvaltioudes: (Elingstom) = spss 52 ss eee ees 337
Animals in the collection, June 30, 1925, National Zoological Park _- --- 91
Anthropological collections, National Museum_-_-_-_--_--_-------------- sl
Appropriations tonipranches sof the lmstitutviones. 25 == a= =e 5
Archeological expedition tov@hinga. = eas. # ke 9
Arts and industries, department of, National Museum_ ---------------- 35
STBON SCISSOR Be ce a ag Tit
PASSES GATUE RSE CE HET youl Cl OE U1 O00 2 ee eee Dpel2 LO. AG
Werropiysteal WDSCEVALORY == 5252-9 22s oe ee 1, 5, 6,15, 24, 123
CSS PSS Sl a te res See eke een) eens oo Renee ee 14, 116
Gime CEO Sa Se ee ta a cs es BE a gd ae SE sete 24, 106
Mops ype Se nS ah ane hg ee al eh en he ee 113
eTSOMME] A 42) _}— ee Tea se dE ee oD TO SR a ea ot 105
Tey OCOV Lee nee MRS ee De o/s | ga ey Ae he eek 2 oe rae ee ee Wi oe Gee ga ee 101
BS DELET eg s Pee Ee 0 SUA LS pg elapse URE Ere ep Tee XII
WON Kon Ooi GME N Ey UT es Si pr ait kc An cape lh met ea 101
removal of Mount Harqua Hala station______..-..----------- 103
SOlare Var AplOMe AN Gt Oe Cals bi eae ae ee ees ye or 101
Attorney General (member of the Institution) __.------.------------- x1, 132
SS TNE VT Che a ps NS ay Sa er en ap ge eee aga 4, 1238, 125

B
Bacha Bi). 56.3 8 Ge Se eo = OE SS 3G stead 84
Bacon fand, Virginia Purdy... 5) 8 2 a ee Set dB 4, 123, 125
Bacon,Mrs!'(Marthat Westie Bait leaee ee Sete See eet Pe ane 5
Lexy Gye 6) es Ret We eee Ae dae yale bie rE ee aS eee Aree ae eee eee 11
SAIC, LUT, — Liye orci paca pe os ET a Pr 4, 123, 124, 125
Baker, A. B., assistant superintendent, National Zoological Park _ - --_---- XIi
barviest JOa pind. Ae ae eee na ee ea ec Gees A pbee ed, 2s 40
622 INDEX

Page
Bartsch, Dr. ‘Pato 252 4 ee ae Se ee a xu, 40, 42
Bassler, Wr: MS. ee Sa A ee ok es eee x11, 17, 34, 35, 42
Benedetti, V2.0. oes Das Re ee ee 84
Benjamin, Dr. Marcus, editor, National Museum_-_-_-_-____________ Xi, 15, Fd
Bent, Mrodi N32. 2 22k hoe ee ee ee ee ee 87
TEPER GS a sca ee ceeds 5, 16, 17, 19, 27, 32, 33, 47, 55, 111, 125
Berry, ‘irs: Hose Vi se eer ee eee ee ee eee 52
Biological collections, National Museum_-__....-..=--.......--_-.--==- 33
Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture____________ 12, 90
Bishop, Carl Whiting, associate curator, Freer Gallery of Art___________ x11, 10
(The historical geography of early, Japan)o—-- 22222 Le 547
Bixby iW its toon Se el ee er Te eee 51
incor, Vernone bi fern ee ee ee ee a ee ee ee 43
Biashtrela: > Melyan FE se 05 ee 5 oe tee ee eee eee ee 19, 50
Boss, Norman 79 et ee ee ee ee ee 42
Botanical exploration in Panama and Costa Rica_____________________- 8
Boyd; Dis oN athe ee a Se ee Oe OG ee nee ee oe 56
Bridgman, P. W. (Certain aspects of high-pressure research) ___________- 157
Brockett, Paul = oar ee es a see ee ee 109
Brookings, Robert S:(regent)=* ° 252 a= oe eee Rhzi20, fos
Brumpt (Prot Groene Se Soe ae ae oe Me hoe oe ee eee eee 45
Bryant, H.8., chief of correspondence and documents, National Museum- XII
i Sy He Sims Oo ere I 5 Vac in Sapp gpd = ey ak VPA cnet i eee ea eh age Yate a 36
Buffalo Society of Natural:Sciences: =e = 222 re eee eee 4, 32, 41
Buildings and equipment, National Museum__-__-_-__--_-------------- 43
Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art____-_-------------- XII
Buttertires; ‘Carnivorous (Clark): 2228 ooo seas eee eee ee eee 439
C
Canadian Rockies, Geological explorations in the---___-_-------------- 6
Capital AumanmCosl2 2 Soi 9a 2S eee ee ee ee 124
Carnegie Institution of "Washington= 22. 322222222 eo ee eee 34, 40
Carnegie solar Observatoryso. 9252 oe ee eee 101
Casey béquest; Col; Thonias Lincoln ==. =. 72522 = eae eee Tova gy, oo, deel
Mrs Thomas Mintoln! 25325 or Se he eee i
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, International, Regional Bureau for the
Unitedsstates sso ree he Se ee eee Se ee ee eee xu, 1, 5, 15, 24, 123
Ve) 070 5} nee tp nies Naha Rey ar ene igs de ke ee Bo ao Soe 107
Cecil, Hon, John 2505230 22 at ee ee 56
Chamberlain’ fund shrances Ween ee 4, 33, 35, 123, 124, 125
Chancellor ofthe, listitublone see eee eee x1, 2, 4, 129; 132
Chapman, A. Chaston (The yeasts: a chapter in microscopical science)-_ 297
Chase. Marat Alprigg ooh ee ee cn 40
Chemical elements and atoms (Urbain) sas ae see ee re eee 199
Chemistry of solids; The ((Deseh) 2.2 228--. Seo ee ee 235
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology------------- XII, 15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74
Chief ‘clerk of :the Institution. =. ..<.-=,.=<{...-. 4S eee XI, 28, 84

Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the Institu-

AGRO) sp SE se ee xI, 1, 2, 4, 129, 132
China archeological expedition to. -=2.--2 = 45 eee 9
China, western, zoological explorations in-......---------------------- 7
Choate, Charles. F., jr-@egent) 34552522 eee- =o ee eee x1, 2, 4, 129
Cioeta, .Mime. A: Langley... 2-323. 2 ee eee eee 54
Clark, AvstinJW 22 c25) oo ee eee 12, 14, 16, 30, 42, 111

(Carnivorous butterflies) 5.222.522 2=2 So eee eee 439
INDEX 623

Page
Winwic;s Miss May S20 ot ORL Oe Deh RTS BS XA EE 74
Slane, H.. S2 202 SHI Os 206 WO FORD Biz eile Fike SIUC ys FL 33, 39, 40
Slankes Dir, B), Wo. 5252255 Soe Ben Nae Uk yoni Sada Sl x17, 114
IAT KG ard or Sa ak et eg Se tae ele ihe ke eee SU BAe 62
Brea C MN yy kt TN 2 on eet ea ha ale SoA ea i ay I OA 24, 102
ieee Arey UTibOG OL ATER eS seen atl ane 2 as eee oe eed me ee 40
Wallection, The; Preer Gallery ‘of “Arts. = 2 oe eed oe 57
Collections, Bureau of American Ethnology__________________________ 74
National Museums. 22308. es SR) eG OTS An 31
anthropologreal 5322 Ms FUG UN HORE Pa ke Le te TG ae) 31
arts/andsinGustries = Ss Syren Baht Vista ke Ons Rant FALE OOEUSOETE: 35
e@lopneaile 2 Ss ee and 0 acs AN ak Ie Ae TS 33
geological. 2nd See ee ro ee oY SI 34
historical S06 = AUR WONT: Oe ee OH Sy BD. ER 38
Collins Witenny Bs wire ha eee be Re oe 33, 47, 61
Womertords Wa. Messi Sul ee a rm bie as yn ae Ve ROE 37
Commerce, Secretary of (member of the Institution) __________________ XI
Soncilinm), Bibhographicuin® 5 65.2 yess Sos Sees a eee ee 111
UGWGGy SeSUCE ss 2 2 eS Na Bl eg oor a yet oh le AS 109
Wonsolidated fund of thé Institution==- 2226525252252 2200 Sa 4
Coolidge, Calvin, President of the United States (presiding officer ex officio

andemnemperofathe- institution) 244.5 Se a a ee XI
ODE OTRO E ME 24 soca ot yoo eh ene he gi ns EEO EG 56
Costa Rica, Panama, and, Botanical explorations in_________________-_- 8
Cotirel fund, -breds Gaaos a 55 baa eek bees se Sele 1 lp 124
Wondle, Dr. Fee Vetles iia ea eae ee OY XII
Cox, P: E., State archeologist of Tennessee-. 222222. =-=2i:222-222222 61
Cox-MeCormachk irs» Naneysens 556 — 5 24 2 bo wk ee eee. VE 53

exhibition of works in National Gallery of Art__________----_----- 53
Curator; Preert Gallery of Artwa ite reo soloso bade) We Sse Oey see xu, 59
Curatorsjotsthey Nation alevitise urna ce ee eg see xi¢
Cyclones, tropical, and the dispersal of life from island to island in the

TSC RT Gis GVA TCTs) pk aa pe thw ca a ay ye a Ft 313

D ,
Waren. William’ Healeys a5 1554 see be ok ws ae Sys Sr
Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, report-___---- 122
Davis, James John, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) - -__- x
Dawes, Charles G., Vice President of the United States (regent and mem-

DELO thems ivUtlOM) see es ee eee ee a ee Ee ee oe xI
Day, Arthur L. (Some causes of volcanic activity) --.----------------- 257
De Halecia, Prof Oss 25252524 i 22a ce ieee se see eee 84
Delano, ‘NWrederie As (regent) = 2 8 Fe oe ee Ses x1, 2, 49, 127, 129, 132
Denmark, Cx RSs Ssh sh AWE eae AMS: Tee Sas oS SAL NEI XII
Densmore; Miss: Prantes = 222 52222 2s) Ss Rees Se 22, 32, 71
Dépew; Hon: Chaurigey- Mis ois ie PO eee eek esd 54
pel Prorok, Gountepyron Mh o) 28 52 82 tee Ya ee eae 46

(The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage)----.------ 569
We Quesada, Don Cass ees See ee eee eee a 45
Desch, Cecil. H..- (The chemistry: of solids) =-2--=-2= --222222222.224-2-- 235
De! Van Corporation Wiliame T+) See ee eee ee a Ae 3
Director, Astrophysical Observatory.=2-==-=--=-=-===-==-==-=-=- x11, 24, 106
Director, National Gallery of Art 202 2 o8 Sr eS ere om Bees eee x11, 56
District of Columbia, Commissioners of the-------------------------- 43

Dopnin Pauls. 224 San53 sees soso so sa se sos esses s sass ses— 325 SSSk= 41
624 * INDEX

Page
Dorsey, Harry W.., chief clerk of the Institution _____._____2.22j/_. XI, 23, 84
Dorsey, N. W., accounting and disbursing agent of the Institution_____ Se eT
Douglas, A. Vibert (Immensities of time and space) ___-__-__-_-__-_-___- 147
Povle, Miss Aida Min... ss. 2 Bt 4h 5S ARs ee eee 47
Bheis) Dr uugene ees a eee Se ee 17, 32
E
Editors of the Institution and branches______________-_-__-_- XA, KIT 1551/22
Egg to an insect, From.an (Snodgrass) + .~.9.2) AeA ou ho nee ce EE Sete 373
Endowment campaign expense fund, contributors to__________________- 4,124
Endowment fund of the Institution (general) ___________________----_- 124
condition: of; July.) 1925. 2). 22222 2 ee ee eee 123
contributors toz=) 2-222 222 os eel ss ee Se Ee eee 4
Entomology, The needs of the world as to (Howard)_______________-_-_ 355
Hstablishment, omithsonian= © 2.2. oy ee ee 1
Bistabroo kil Met ae. ees ee ee, ee ee 44
Ethnology, Bureau of American_____________- 1, 5, 6, 15, 17, 20, 32; 41,123, 131
Co) NCS) RS ee pe ay is ae UY PL RCT re yy PE Xu, 15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74
Collectionse 3c bs oe oe Ne ra SS oe Bae ase Pelco ee ee 74
illustrations: 252 22-2 oe oo ee ee ee a 73
libres ease Hi ea dees ts aute te. Goat Sale Wn 4h eee: phe 16, 73, 113
publications... 22. ie ko a SE es 14, 22,116
distribution.Of 3] .- 2 2. ee ee ee ee eee ee 73
editorial work. and oo sjre 4 nie fee tle ee. Be eee = Saeed 72
MepOrt=-. + 52 ee ee at ee Ae WE ee ee ee 60
TESCATCNES 2 = ye NE, eye a ee ot ee 62, 71
=| | ana ea ny =, Se MUTT Sry a Le ae Wey errr marcy ns BAe xII
Hwans, Victor J..2......-.-221.---.2.20- 3-5 eae See ee eee
Hxchanges, international... +22 52 joaNere feet ee 1,515, 2252410) 127
foreign depositories of United States governmental documents- ----- Tl
foreign.exchange agencies... 2.5 _ 525. ape bh bean eee ee 2
interparliamentary exchange of the official journals_______.----_- 80
TODO N22 ek es es ee 2 BE a ee 75
Expedition, (Marsh-Darien 3 #422284. ee ee 31
Exploration and field work, National Museum_______--------------- 39
Explorations in the Canadian Rockies, Geological_______---_-_--------- 6
researches and a> = * eee oe ODED) Ee Ce. a ee eee 6
Explorers-Chib*or “News orks 220 Os) ee 0) ae ae ee ee 110
F
Rabry} Dre Ch... es ee ese te bebe Sb deena eee eee 104
Bar Hast expedition Tund<-. 222 2 ta toe ee Ue ee 2 ee eee 124, 125
Kederation‘of veWomen’s.Clubs_* 0 222 2 ade) o-oo 19, 55
American Federation of Arts and the, Activities of the-__-_------- 51
Ferris, Senator Woodbridge 'N. (regent) <--->. 22°22 == Sa2n224 pee oe XI, 2
Fewkes, Dr. J. Walter, chief, Bureau of American Ethnology____--------- XII,
15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74
Binances of the Institution 3 0. ebuct 32 eee Shunde G45 4 ee tee 4
Financial operations of the Institution, detailed survey of___---------- 124
Fire protection, additional.--. 22-22. _ ft 5 ee es eee 5
Fisheries, Bureau of, United States Department of Commerce-_--------- 58
Bord) Henry 262 Se en a ae Sp eemete: Jas eee ee 36
Foreign depositories of United States governmental documents- -------- 77
Foreign exchange agencies 2... 2... af) $e eda dud got} ape 82

Roshiig, (Dn W. Wis kn a ees ee ee a 34, 35, 41
INDEX 625

Page
Merier AE): Ve 2a Se A ep Nh hd et er Sh ie nn EEO 40
Rowke« Gerard 35k re ae hah cent sear oe J 2 eb le athe ae SE 21, 41, 62
Fowle, F. E., jr., aid, Astrophysical Observatory ____...-.-----_----- XII, 32
RTASCT.VAMes esse Las Sho 258 Fs Leys BOE EE eee Te 51
IBFESM BEL: hb se arn eget ges peer a OSS oh Sy bn ee VUES IBUSS LE 105
Mecerisrn morsels. bE iS Se ie eet re tk AR eee 47
reer; Charles lis ios ot ee Jee dcienlly 59h eee, SWE 48
bequest ks 7suoe Sti Bes Reet tt PE PETES 9 An DORM 5, 27, 125
Crs] H-Net 133
fandsiderivied ito mk A a ee he Se 124
Breer. Gallery: oie Ni ee 2 ea Burky ARON Ei 5 AORN Neg BRE) TEN 1, 9, 10, 20
BATS TNL COE et eh a oe Ee edo ee Ee PS 59
classificationiofunvestedthund sas a ee 5
Collechionts Whe twas 2) Goad Sees ei a ese ede ese soe ees fe 57
Curators. = os Rs 1 BLO I a SO Bee x11, 59
1B(e1 Kol N30) oe ee es RR doe ee Se ee ee pee 59
Lor a ee ane ee ee ee eee ee eee Sets be 113
PVCTSOWM OL Sp a te gas et ES EOS OD OL OE 59
IRE) OYG) tt ena ee ees een eRe rey eR SPL SEAS he Re, DfT ace ee ta ee pe oe 57
SEEN sore pce eh SR a LEE oY IE SAA EY) oad 8 = A SIDES AE XII
Hreersincome:.tax, remission of. 2 OSTA Les eae Fo POLS ID 133
HerencheePaniel So nestere. 0. ee ete he OE 51
ak uahiniay @ors (LNG) <5 e  e e 17;'35
G
Gabaawra George. 2. 2. 2 oe ee ee ds ot es se ee Se Se be 69
(Gallery di cA pe 2 a et Peed De ae hE a 2 eee es 8 111
Gelie SirsArchibald (Strahan). .2 2 = we. ee i ee 591
Generaliconsiderations, secretary s report. 2 -—=- = 92 22. = eee oe ee 2
Generaliendowment fund! of the Imstitution=__== 4252223252282 2 ee 124
CONnditionlolpomlysie OD 2 ees a ee ee 123
Contrib ucOrsehOs sesso oes See Se ee RE we be Se ae 4
Geological collections, National Museum_-_--------------------------- 34
explorations in the Canadiam Rockies... .-_.__.—.-------_-#3 4 6
GeologicaliSurvey; United Statestas == > 5.2 2 ee 29, 34, 41
Georeer Washington University... =... 2.225.202 5522-5222 ee ee: 12
esi wil se ea hve. See ee Res bc tebe oe ete | taps «tpn SLs 49, 50, 51
OE SBELO DE b=) oe) 5 7S EN ee ee 47
Gidleypme rs dec Wiese os = See ga ks oe es en oe 42
Gill, De Lancey, illustrator, Bureau of American Ethnology -_---------- x11, 73
Gilmore* DrCharles W -s.- 422 2 a cee a eek ee re at xl, 34, 35, 42
Glower ne narles CO uinens ee A ea 4
Goldsmith, J. S., superintendent of buildings and labor, National Museum_ x11
Government: Printing “Offices +: 4s. ee ts a 28
Graham, Rey, avid Ce As oe ee Wop 8s, dy BOsiOD
TUNA G PS sae Si Sell Pah, Sind TA ee ee wn A ee Ss SS Se page Ee Se eS 124
Grant. Mrs and ivirssetrn lye ee ae ee eee eee en 87
Gray, George (regent)_---_--_.-.-----=---------+--+------------- x1, 2, 129
Greeley, W. B. (The relation of geography to the timber supply) --- ----- 533
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art--~------- XII
(unmell,, Leonard Co 4. soe eee ee x11, 108, 111
H
Hibelitundes == 40 e-> sae FI SO ae SO enone ne teen eee aa 4

Hall Sir Daniels == >= <-+=+=ssesssss-54"22esc222255552soss=-5222-~- 43
626 INDEX

Page

Biamitton fined se. 2 oe ee ek ae a ee ee 4, 123, 126
Manson wAnne C2. a es re ee 4
Harkness, Edward 8... ~~ =. 5--oeveesed Ot tends tk hie. ee 5
Harriman Alaska expedition reports. _---.-.-.-.....-___...-_@ seeeal 14, 116
Hesriman trustfand..- == 2 a) Se ee ne ee 124, 125
Harrington, down ee A ee ee ee eee XII, 21, 22, 65, 66
Bay; Dir. Qi Pn re Ss tea 5 se i a Bee ee oe ee 111
Hazard, Daniel L. (Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century) _____ 243
Meadicar, (Bs MU 26 5008 pee ee ed oh ee 84
Hegeman, Migs 22 oo aos oe et a ee 32
Henry endowment fund, Joseph, National Academy of Sciences_________ 41
nenxyuhund= Caroline is) iiaas S00) 2S ied ee eee nee 4, 123, 124, 125
Hess, Widb. oo oe 5 ae Sera Syntype She er eee 34
RQ WI Gsto TIN ee cea SS ei ee Seg ee tne XII, 22, 67, 68, 69, 70
High-pressure research, Certain aspects of (Bridgman)________________- 157
Midebrand: Sak co- 223 ob eon |e ee ee, re 40
il per Acs) aso Prk se Ee ee See te catia re oe a a ee ee 104
Hill, J..H., property clerk of the Institution... -_...- »- == 2. _ eee XI
Hill, Leonard (The biological action of light)__-__-__-_-___________ ses 327
Hingston, Maj. R. W. G. (Animal life at high altitudes)___________ icine da7
Historical collections, National Museum__________________________=-- 38
Hoad, \MissiMortense: <2 ok ee Ieee 47
Hodgkins fund; general. 2054 2. os oe Re ee sere eee ee 4,128
SPC CRIs een 8 gs 3 lee Bf ate, “a SP De eee 4, 124, 125
Hollister, Ned (Osgood) .22 2. 2-38 eo ae ie ee ee ee 599
superintendent, National Zoological Park__________________- 15, 23, 26, 87

Holmes, Dr. William H., Director, National Gallery of Art___ xt, 50, 56, 111
Hoover, Herbert Clark, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Insti-

RUT G1 COM) fe ai 0 ee ry pee a ra AR er Oe x, 45
Hornblower; its-:Caroline Buc ue ee eee eee eee 56
rough, “Dips Welter:s qc cee ee or SO Eg ee ee XII
Howard Sirtiiame «3.52 ee ae eee > ee ce eee Se eee 53
Howard, Dr. L. O. (The needs of the world as to entomology) ____-____- 355
dG Cop ar ey el eeypl Cn Sy celenk, oat Sel pet ee patella gd ci ie OL allel aa a hu lop ele 102
Hoy, n@harles Vise eres a bie rns re Shs Bar pe eres ee ee ee ee eee Lie tl
Hrdli¢ka SD risAles #2 ys tere 2s tans sie 5 et ey Se ee eee eee xi, 41, 44, 111
Fhubpy, iiss: Bilal.» bequesto2 6 2<2so- 2 ae a Se ee oe 17, 32
Hachessfinnd Brveesc = ett: He Peck ee ren er eee eee 4, 123, 124, 125

I

Indian tailor bird, The nestiof the: (Wood) 222222 as se ee eee 349
Insect: From’ an‘ege to an; (Snodgrass)=:<- 2222460222 -- 373
Insect pests, The réle of vertebrates in the control of (McAtee) _-_-___- 415
Interior, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) -____._._._____--- XI

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Regional Bureau for
the! United Statese 2 eer 2 eee oe Nee ee es xt, 1, 5, 15, 24, 123
TEPOLrt 2 = oe Se a1 Ae ee ee ee ea ees es ee ree 107

International exchange of publications, Geneva, Switzerland, Committee

Of experts’ On THES AS ee ae eee Ae a eo a oe ES 84

International exChHanwes = san ee ee eee 1,5, 15, 22,27, 110, 127
foreign depositories of United States governmental documents__-_--- at
foreign exchange agencies... 2. oct. ee eee 82
interparliamentary exchange of the official journals___________----- 80
INDEX | 627

Page
Japan, The historical geography of early (Bishop)_____________________ 547
Jardine, William M., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) _ Xa
JO] ATIRG MeN ee 2 ea ek es Be a SO 45
Johnson, Representative Albert (regent) _________________________- x1, 2, 129
Jordan, David Starr (Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic
PER LOUUT LON) je nT i eR ge 2 Ds SEE, Sap a 321
Siiicciimivelin ieee eee ats oe A a x11, 17, 32, 41
K
FAT PeCON SEO. sVIACIINE | 2948 ot oo bees lle be SE 45
Katz, Leo, exhibition of works in National Gallery of Art______________ 53
Kellogg, Frank B., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) ______ XI
ESHIOSHILR Wet eee = 6 ce 258 ea 5 SUD) MO Te ge Be ee 59
Knowles, W. A., property clerk, National Museum__-_________________- XII
LE STST I) 2 9 FOR | CURE DR RAS le a cel ee er SOLA See 41, 47
i UTES ANS) 1s aA ea As TE RP © ti ees oe Sav eee IS 20h) Aaa 70
L
Labor, Secretary of (member of the Institution) ______________________ >i
ea blesehe UE TanGise a. oe «cil apd We ea PA Oo PN dd ale a a rs Kir, 22, 70, 71
Padektin» irwineb.,. (regent) ee o-9 4 2 25 Se ee 2 TNO ET Oe Xi) 2; 4
APSA CWE CELOMS TSA AG sk oe AR 5 1 cSt a ne sy MN SE AG OE a rfl 35
Leary, Ella, librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology________________ Me
We WaOnyer NOOniIGk: Tiss Che ae on a eS Ss Sa Oe XII
Libraries of the Institution and branches_______________________ Prltositonule
TS) OY 0) 6 eee pe eee ee a eee ae ee ee eee, = eee RET hi 2 ot 109
PTE Oks CON PRESS) ee ee ee a I ss Se WC cPas, Lea 1718?
SMipnsonian! GOPOsitiiim seek ey on 1 STATE OT TR ORS 2 110
Life, the dispersal of, from island to island in the Pacific, Tropical cyclones
PLING (VISION) Ba oe eee aed ect bE ay Send 313
fight, The biological-action: of (Hiall)= =.=. 222 2 se 327
Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena (Peek) _________________- 169
Loans accepted by the National Gallery of Art______________________- 55
byathe National Gallery of-ArG. = 22 6 to a 55
iodre, Senator Henry Cabot: (cegent) == =< =... oe 2, 19, 25, 59
OGL iS se we on reg ep my ae Re foe A My eS 129
Lodge, John Ellerton, curator, Freer Gallery of Art______ x11, 50, 51, 54, 55, 1382
foeb collection of chemical types =~. 2220 ed es ee 16
GUTATO Ree goin SNe ES Se SO EE 16
Heeb fii Ss VEOrnis© 2S oh 5 2 2 Se een eens 2 eee 4, 123, 124, 125
fone new MISSES ood Atv TE hear ae 8 gS 2 i SA AS 32
PCAC, «Iso. 5 Sa Pas pr I I Ed AOU st 84
M
Mann, Dr. William M., superintendent, National Zoological Park_ x11, 15, 23, 100
Marsh endowment fund, O. C., National Academy of Sciences__-_-_-_----- 41
Marsh=Darientexpedition= S22) 2520-2 Suse Lo ee ae es a Ae 11, 31, 32, 41
1 CIE NSE pl 6 aN GSS i ase es to ee a a Se a Saar = 2h. a es eI ae eR nee 21, 67
PROT shares by ea WV) poe ee 2 ee Sie Ae ee ee Se 40
Misti iners Biranik. Ji jpeek oe ieee oie ao A as ae ie A ee 50, 51
Matignon, Camille (The manufacture of radium) ---------------------- 221
RpeRTIMEE OU Ee een ees fa DO eR i es ee ee x1r, 111
McAtee, W. L. (The réle of vertebrates in the control of insect pests)._-. 415
Me@ormick.senator Medill (regent) ...222.<_..-.0.- 2s ence dee tk 2, 129

bic Piwcnemmereds 262 fd ys eee OE et Oe ee chk ee 37
628 INDEX

Page
Meiey, Mins LaurayM |.) 32a 2 le ee ee 55
Mechilin; Miss Leila 2/22 SIUC TA Os Se eee ee re ee 51
Mele hers jars le oe 2) S00 Mey Pee tere aed See See eee eae ae ee 51
Mellon, Andrew W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Insti-
PUGLON) to— et eet nk hale 3's oe ET SS ee eee ee xI
Moerriadi: Tone! Joe et Be BE IEA. ene Se eee ed, Oe ee 34
Mterrill; Dr. George <P a= 2 er ee eee 15, x11
Michelson, Dr. Truman_-_-___-_-_-_- pal rae A ga ee reanalysis! ols acetal aE xi, 21, 65
Mifiin , Dir; diouston = oa oS ee ee Ne 56
Miller; DiiGerrit 'S., jf. -<-0 25 2 ae See xu, 40, 111
Mitman, Carl W. 2. == 14.3 \>s4teS) Jadoter A ct adeabuls ganiticided oof XII
Moore, -Charlesgei3t.ciitarel 9:43: = acyeh ergracp) oe HO be see getaoene - SEES EIS 51
Moore, Representative R. Walton (regent) _______________- x1, 2,127,:129, 132
Morris jyMarl Hq - =. <2 =~ sepa i daa atte shaky eek 21, 63
BV iPod, Moh. is Reais OA 2 doe, Nog ye on as ee tee be Ds ee ee 33
Mrunroe.WVliss tielen2 23. oes = ee 2 as on Le Aen ee 73
Museum of the American Indian]. 2: 2-322 75.0 ee 21
REvGr, FW. Bhiecsstes elots th bie Sipe ee re ge 61
N
National Academy of Design... ___.___.2_=___.__. Gi Le 53
National’ Academy of Sciences. .°..----.2. 252 "52- "(22 eae ee eee 4
National American Woman’s Association... - 9... 22224. 2222-12-24 39
NanlousisGallery, OftAtt 22s =o sa ee ae Oe eee eee 1, 5, 12,15, 18, 128
art works added during the year — 22 t22=22 $822 pose ae ad es Se 54
building 222 ee See Ee ee ae 2 ee ee oe eo 50
pra PUN = oe ee ee 124, 125
report special committee On] = 22 2s = S— et segs seeeeee 132
COMMMBSION fos fen PE nT Ad, ed Sage pice dF pedat peel ¥ by, neat a 19
annual report.c = 222525 228 as ee eee ee ee 130
meetings=.- 22s. 222525 ee ees Soe eee 50
director. = =.= 2 22322 Pe ee ee oe ee ee ea xu, 56
distributionse.* 2 22 S25 2 ee Ae eee i ee ee 56
library 222 — 2 S202 2 ee a 2 ee a ape ee ee ee 113
loans: accepted: by thez22- 22-4 eS ee eee 55
DY thes 22. 2S Ae ee SSE Se OE ee eee 55
publieationst 422-22. 22 See eS SP eee: Skee ES 56, 116
report. 2 2225 a ek ee elo eet Fee eee Se eee 48
special’exhibitions beld"in' the. 22 1 2 oes ee) te ee eee 52
National Geographic Society —- -2-=- -4-- = 2 ee 17, 32, 33, 39, 40, 41
Neston il: ER ery ho Sirri rae ee a eee ee 40
National Museum of Engineering and Industry_____--_--------------- 130
National Museum, United States._.__.._...._._._.._----.- 1, 5, 6, 12, 15, 16, 74, 123
buildingsrand: equipment 222220222 oe aoe oe Se ee ee 43
COLlECHIONS. = 2222 AURORA. MAORI SY 05 sik SDEESE Es Sree EPRTUEER CONS SEE 31
CULATOLB ne er RE SO RY 2 Ope ne Seer eee ee eee xu
explorations and field: work2 20: + - 5S es = = ee eee 39
BOTary 2-33 a eh ee eee 46,111
meetings and receptions 2 eee 43
Publications: = 222 Soe See ee ee 14, 18, 46, 116, 131
YEVOTU Oba 22.092 55S Ee Oe ee ere ee re 120
PEDO Go se on ce Sen See ee ee 28
VISIGOTS eee. SPREE CU OO AE BOLE ERE OO SEL ee ee ee 18, 46
National-Park Service - 22-24 = fs. 2d et Se ee eee eee 35, 42
INDEX 629

Page
arraunliressiClibs 9S ein td Sig ee eee R eee Es She 39
National ZoologicaliParkes 552) 2545 as) wees goo daosA eos So Olona, Loe
ACCORSIONSE Sf Loe eee See ae es Ses 5 See ee ee eet hs rg 87
animalsiin' the collection, Jumes0) 192525 2222 ee ee 91
fundsifor phe purchase on animals ss a5) = se a ee eee ee 100
DM PLOVEMeN tigers 22 oes eho Sa elt Se in 98
TACOS CS TOM DMG MOET Kees pe A A A ig Day UT i ao ee 99
TCIMOV 158 see ee se ae ee a eee oo ae ed Ee ee De 90
TEDOLU A Mame eka Bee eae eee ds et eee eee nee nied Tie eae ee 87
TOVeCNUES =e eee = kamen Ash wile ee yw Sc Ee ee ere ee 100
superintendent !@2—) 2. Fe en ee ae eee xl, 12, 14, 87, 100
Visitorge ase sos Sea aA ee eee es 8 ok oe el a 24, 98
Wwatenimain= se = 2252 5=40 2ee ae ak ee ee er See 99
Navy ‘Department, “United Statesa-=-22s25 222522222255 252s52s4e725-— 39
Navy, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) ----..------------- XI, 42
INECTO Opa meee nee tee ene ere meee an Ss ee SE eee eee 25
New, Harry S., Postmaster. General (member of the Institution) -______- XI
Newton, Representative Walter H. (regent)_.-.-......--.--------- XI, 2, 132
Nichols iVirsshrancesss4ss==e 222 s2 seston ate nes Lee ee Deane 72
Rivdibippi Chiet ewes e==2 f- oa ees Veet ab SOMES) ow 0 SO 67, 72
Bible. Weclarkss eas ehik seek wie eile ewe nee Ue IE 54
North American Wild Flowers publication fund_-____-.._-----_-------- 125
O
Olmsted, Arthur J., photographer, National Museum___-..-.._-.------ XII, 38
Organic evolution, Isolation as a factor in (Jordan).....--_-.----------- 321
Osgood, Walired He (Ned: Hollister): 222222 s2 o25s. 2a ou ae eee 599
P
Panama and Costa Rica, Botanical exploration in-_.....-.------------ 8
Parmeles ames’ =o tee eo sta Set eee! Let ooest eee ae oo seeL oe 50, 51
Peasleee MoOrncem Win. =o 555 oe eb ease ce Seo Ue bcocel lasEL 54
Peek, F. W., jr. (Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena) ________- 169
Perey. Alfred Duane, bequest--— 250-5222 --s-ecceeeoc oe Sh SL 19, 55
Pepper, Senator George Wharton (regent) ------------------------- x1, 2, 129
IReranca ViGlOLee ee] one a eee eae oe co soko sees ee ee neo oe ee 39
Leta vel ie Eas ae ee ee eS ea re oe XII
Pershing (en. JObn do 3 26 oo ao eeu sae occ c aah oe 38
Bérmonnel- Classification, Board... oo 232s et ob ee es 28, 30
IBinte s@harlesy Ares. sees on eee eee ae aa =e 19, 49, 51, 57
SERIAIST Sra FS a ee Se Sees ee 42
Poore fund, Tacyatand George -W...----/8-.--2.. 22-8 4, 123, 125
POGrE, i: (Soe ee ek eee ee eee ee 4
Porter, Ay Women eyes i on mower 51
Portland. CementeAssociahloneeeaas he 2 ou sors J Sees gat se SES 36
Postmaster General (member of the Institution) __..------------------ XI
Potato of romance and reality, The (Safford) ......-..-------==/-=s-=< 509
Powers, Mrs... Francesmiaqemies arses ets eh oe eed te as 32
Roweenelk, Horace ssa et aS 65
Pratt, Herbert, Lice eee ee fps.) su lk-- cb asad 51
President of the United States (presiding officer ex officio and member
oftheslnstitubion) = eee ue eso 5a 1
Printing and publication, Smithsonian advisory committee on-_--------- 122

76041—26—-41
630 INDEX

Pa
Publications of the Institution and branches___......_.-.-_--_-__- 14, 56, 131
Astrophysical. Observatory,-annals....==2<-22222-2..41¢ 1 ee 14, 116
Bureau of. American Ethnology <<2<ss<2cs22-4sstecee5 14, 22, 72, 73, 116
National Gallery-of- Art-==<2:-2¢305_U5 3205. snelios ons al eine 56, 116
National-Museum-= = 22-52-2226 2222.2520ing_M 9 14, 18, 46, 116, 120, 131
TOport. . S52 -st2beseccsccasesteessstsssescescss2225 see 116
ies
Rabinowitz, Harry West a2 a0 8 2 eee Bee ee eee 47
Redio Corporation: of American® = is @2 eee ee ae ee 5, 12,,13, 30
Radium,, The;manufacture of (Matignon) _.--_-- = eee 221
Bigeyuobaries: We ~ 2s ess EN se ee ee el 56
Banger, bedhest, Henry Ward. Sook Pe oe en eee 53
NAN ep eS a eI en ee eee 53
Ravenel, W. de C., administrative assistant to the secretary_________- xa, 1 1
RA TDN fo era Aa See ee 5
Theber, Wins. Serine es eto i ta Ns a kp 38
Ripetiela Hicwearc. Wyse. ae ee ee eee ee 50, 51
Regents of the Institution, Board of. 222202223 eee x1, 2
adjourned meeting, January 5, 1925______- 6 er ee ee 132
SUTTER ACC DING a2 Se eT Ns a ee A 2 129
appolntmoent.of 9222222). hte sae eee BI eet oS 129
EX€CUUIVelcommMiIttes, TEDOLUS -— sees = ee ee ee es eee nes pean 123, 130
permanenticommittee, -report==5. = 882-22 226 = ee ee 130
WLOGEE CIN gs a -5k Soh red NN i ge 0 a ce 129
Reig find =sA d digi te ee eee ee ae ce eee a eee 4, 123, 125
LCS Yo] OWA LO) of 5/01 2112! 0) | Ceres a bwtacel tte € Site Bre waite these ol be and cy Bia yah ts ation 1 4
LOCKS t Mim eB Urea bi Oras Ss eS a ey te cae ne Soe ee 125
Researches:and, explorations:2 -2 2 2 yess ge Se ee ee 6
Resser;: (Dr. Charles hr 22 320 eee Se eS ee ee xul, 17, 34, 35, 42
Rhees fund-..: 2... 2525-22-80) aos Tae antl S223 tedp 1235535
Rhoades, Katherine Nash, associate, Freer Gallery of Art___...-_------ XII
Richmond gr, Ciiarles Wis. oo 25 0 StS ee ee ee xu, 4, 111
Ridgway, Dra Roberhemieds sgatiowisit ~orths be ayepeei Ey ee ee XII
Roberts;.O> Megre cosee a eeest ek 3 co a a BR eee 16, 31
Recki-Dr, Jo Banc on conse k et) nos7 se age) sees 17, 33, 39
Roepiinedohn An 5 22205. 2 eh ak ee et se me 4, 24, 101, 102, 103
1A ec: Le een Ce oe SP Tt RN RD enor NS Ae Rate. | 2d 125
Roebling, Col. WiwAecoosse se Sess wan esos ae eee ae 17, 34
mineral fundsssssosSse oe esos kao se ss sae SIR SO ee 125
Rowérs, OP reg. Di jB. 2.6 eect se ad Be see 66
Rabwer, \SitAdise 22 So's a6 eter ooo be ee 111
Rudge, William. Hdwins 52245-6422 + oo. Se Be SE be 37
s
Safford, W. E. (The potato of romance and reality)_---._--.----------- 509
Salvadorean: Government... /90npeiiatl adi Jol eea ar tasers) eee 40
Sampson, Edward 2.ssc000s-22.. biebe6s af sino: Tuts Sopesies se 32
Sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, The excavations of (De Prorok) -------- 569
Sanford. fund; (George. EL. n-aacasadoncs ose se eee eo ae eee 4, 123, 125
Sargent, John G., Attorney General (member of the Institution) -~------ xe
Schaus,) Dri William. 200. sateele_woinessi) sted fabs! ete ae -4, 41
Sclimitt,.Dr, Wald6 Lyiacseccensta seco ccn cece ene x11, 42
Scudder,. Newton. Pu: setuoveus peel she cebee ieee cee 15, 27, 47, 109

Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology------------ xiy, 15, 72
INDEX 631

Page
Secretary..of. the Institution 2cuccecsccetocsse noe Es Be ee III,
x1, x11, 1, 27, 33, 40, 41, 46, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 59, 74, 86, 100,

108, 110, 111, 115, 122, 129, 131, 132.

Shannon? Harl Vee. conn cece eet ewe n POU eos eee ie rk 41,111
Shoemaker, C. W., chief clerk, International Exchanges__ ----_-------- XII
Siuteldisb., Wane. 2a Soo sat ece seeders aseSeetecateccc ees eee 87
Smith Mh Ente ote oko erie cece sites e se aa ENE S10 SueIbG 106
SHEDIE CMM BY page GOT] 0G 1M cull 5 otis SR th Sehat NU Pe ea ees eee, eh te 33, 40
SibhpsNirs. Ohne Wse it ae ee Oma aa aie a eee ee se 56
Brn b hs ies, Cie eee Gees MOE wl acew ed eee ecules 111
Smithson; Jamese. 2 oi 2sosSuasssSstoes sos ea ssl Ee Me 1
fund pn Coes Ae Reeth ee Dis A bE TERED LIE TEE) 18D) oe 4,123
Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication_____----- 15, 122
SAU BTE DOTS 6 ae See ae Janeen oO ee ek ee 14 1G: Ey, 13
contributionsstosknowledgesedos2c¢ses csccsceseseseesqees=o2 29 14, 116
endowment fund, condition of, July 1, 1925.-....---___---------- 123
establishments) - 82a eaee See oS See See eee 1
Institution! (article, on) aot 202} Sree Jock L 2) JOT Ses Bt Sele 575
Hiorrerriyyes 2 208d. Mi eerie Salt cee Baars UNag sh Sead Fee 109
Wiscellaneous collections==—¢ -]= = eee eee eee eee Bede oh 14, 24, 116
TACIOAlICS 2A HS Sh Ls Tee BA Pees Ee ek 12, 13, 16
Scienuiiesseries FUNG. .- >2. 422252 Se ce ses ee et Da ee 3, 125
contributorsitoO. 22 s2 he aso eee SU eR Oe BE ge Be 5
Smoot senator: heeds (Megent) ses fake eee Set eee See otee= x1, 2, 129, 1382
Snoderass, RE) (Bromanvere toan insect) 2. 2. 2225-522 - 22S 373
Solids) Che. chemistry, of (Desch)_ 2 eeees ob els kee ee 235
SOWETO ye CON a ee eee ge Ae eh ek ee eet bk 17,33, 39
Space, Immensities-ofatime.and (Douglas). 22.22. 2. ---.2-=----.----- 147
Space, structure of, The spiral nebulae and the (Wirtz)---------------- 137
Spiral nebulae and the structure of space, The (Wirtz) --.------------- 137
masmicleyen Paulie oe 2 Sc ia ieee ee a ee a RE WZ ok 8, 9, 40, 71
Stanley, senator A., Owsley: (regent)-2 2220-222 esac eas ts -2-32-- 2, 132
State, Secretary of (member of the Institution) ---..-.---------------- XI
BLCRNERer. IDEs WeOnhard= sername ete Be glee okie ee <I L5
SEE WATUs F OSC Nes ei ealla ae ak Heed Shihan ea oak ee he a ee bd a 56
SPELT OV ARS RS ee ee R= A ne Oo 5 See 41
Strahan, Sir Aubrey (Sir Archibald. Geikie) =...) +322 -ss-s2- 591
Superintendent, National Zoological Park. -:--2. 2 4: 254: -=- —= x1, 23, 87, 100
Sn Fe oa) 2 (eae ene gape eis epee mS SAARI EY = emOe Res A; 23092, 87, 1h)
BUN see ae yeh rep ep rt 2 eR ka pS ee ate ee 125
Swanton. sre LO mmUbs 5 soe yeaah Jou re Sl ye soe ae xu, 21, 64
Tt

Taft, William Howard, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor
and memberof the Institution) = ss) eo ee ae eae eee x1, 1, 2, 4, 129, 132
Tarbell; Edmund: ©2456. 5 nares oo ke teas et a 19, 50, 51
Technological library ss <8 sc set oS ee Pe Re tees Ok sete 112
Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century (Hazard)_-----.--------- 243
el BUSY YF OB) 0B gir ey RSE EE Re a AE eee te ee ee 45
PISO IAS =. (CO GI ea ee ree ae et eee th ee eS ae a eae Geli!
FRhompson;, Herberty ls segs ee eee et ee eB 59
Timber supply, The relation of geography to (Greeley) _._.__.---------- 533
Time and space, Immensities of (Douglas) __._.___.------------------ 147

Traylor, James G., appointment clerk of the Institution_____--.------- XI
632 INDEX

Page
‘Treasurer of the United States.........-_.-......sdtupitee Et alt fae 127
Treasury ‘Department; United: Statesi.i 2.0). 28 $5.2 eee 39, 46
Treasury, Secretary of the (member of the Institution)________________ XI
‘Frue) W.. P.,.editor of the Institution. .->_- 3 oe x1, 15, 122
Tuckerman, Miss Enmilyweseedss3 deeeiesetal sats ias- ie ee 51, 54
DOQNGR. oe er ar ee ee rege 32
Sule Tndiang of Panama. — 252 2 re ee 11, 12, 22, 31, 67, 71, 72
U
Wiech, Drs Hin@) on ya Saree one ee ee 17, 34
U...S: 8S. Tanager expeditions: 2 Wo: eeoo) 5223. == i2
Urbain, G. (chemical elements and atoms) ....--2..2---s2aes22--s=2uu 199
V
Waly Mloyde 2. Se sabe see oe ees ee eet lies 38
Van: Aukeon. irs; Lansine.. ... 2001 en b2ls_ie phi on oe) leone 18, 36
Wanderbilt, Wire: George W.2.  o o  tkn  eet 56
Vertebrates in the control of insect pests, The réle of (McAtee)________ 415
Vice President of the United States (regent and member of the Institu-
PIGR) PEiis =v ete 2 oe epee bee gl Oe ae x1, 1,2
Visher, Stephen Sargent (Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from
island: tousland in the, Pacifie)= 3. 2...2-5.. =] 35-5 = eee ee 313
Volcanic: activity; Some eausesiof (Day)....2-s-52---5$ aces 2 257
WelkioDoglas. goss s2c6 Sse ce oe eee ee oe et heres 51
WwW
Walcott, Dr. Charles D., secretary of the Institution. _....._-_--_____- III,

XI, xu, 1, 27, 33, 34, 35, 40, 41, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 59, 74,
86, 100, 106, 108, 110, 111, 115, 122, 129, 131, 132.

ANC gst Gh OY ig (Stipes D mentite Senate goede Laie a RB eek abe eine alin roe LN ye cogpy ok’ L 33, 46
research fund, Charles-D:and Mary Vaux_=--22 22> s* 22222 2 4, 123, 125
Walker Profy Vieovce 226 tae w eee oer errs Sate ee ee ee 4
WV altace Ferny: Ostrov ell f= oh sisi At Ben ae et Se ee oe epee eee 44
VV Rls Tn Lee cla UT A re er Se es re ee ee 44
War, Secretary of (member of the Institution) -..............-._-.--_- XI
WiATNerVViOrcestersh 2 tn Skee ere eee a ee ee ee ee iW, o0
Watts, W. W. (Geology in the service of man)___________...__-______- 271
Weather buresis sOmipedmsta tesa ese = ee eee ee en ae eee 102
Weeks, John Wingate, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) _ -__ xI
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution.______- xis
x11, 12,15, 16, 23, 45, 47, 87

Wiheatom: Sirs Brain ke eee es a he 38
White Dre Davie es ee re a ata ce chat ee XII
Wihite *blenry (repent) eee sete ae eee ree Sma pers eee Deere eee nee xI, 2, 49, 127
Widforsst Gunnar: <2 2 = te 22826 <r  e eee 54
exhibition of paintings in the National Gallery of Art__.._._.______-- 53
Wilbur, Curtis D., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) -_- XI
Walkens?blang= 25 sea bee Eek hore rr eee es ee ee ee ee a
Williams; -Alpheusvhe™ = 268 = a= 94 sh aaa ee ae i eee sae eee 17, 34
Wittens: “Alyn:t2 et en sens ea ce SPARS SAA eee tea een eee eee 52
Wirtz, Carl (The spiral nebulae and the structure of space)_______--_--- 137
Wodd:-Dr: Casey An so eee eee ee eee a ee 33
(The nest of the Indian*tailor bird) Ys ee eae eee 349

Woodhouse, Dey Samu Ye ee nee ee eee ee re ae ees mae 38
INDEX 633

Page

GRC hip Oe see se ee nae eee ee a hn aaa ee ee as 32
Work, Hubert, Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) ---- XI
Wright. d0Georgese == sae ese oe aaen ies ose aan eae eae aan ae 70
Wittlsine iene eer eee eee eae aoe 17, 22, 33, 39

Yi
WislenWiniversity Ress senate oe eee oa ce eee sooo sea ae awe e 3
Yeasts, The: a chapter in microscopical science (Chapman)-.-..-------- 297
Minune MNKs; SBPA Wee pene hence ee oe coma eae eae nana 109
Z

Zoological explorations in western China_-_-_._------------------------ 7
Zoological Park, National_____..-...----------------------- 1, 5, 15, 23, 123
RCEESSI ONS Mee ee eee eee eee eee eae 87
animals in the collection, June 30, 1925_-.._--------------------- 91
funds for the purchase of animals__-_..------------------------- 100
improvements .--=---25=--=-----+=---=-+------5--===<=--==-=-- 98
needs Of the parks. - sore s5 22 S225 ose eae ao == == = 99
TROYES ae a ane ee an Se aia ee al 90

TE DOT ae ee ene ae eee an aa a eae 87
TVET CS ce ea tte ge ee eee a 100
guperimiendent: 22-20-52. 52-5 saee nee aa x11, 12, 14, 87, 100
Se ay eS] cart) are Senne Oise Pi DS RN se les Dia Pe Ug a ee ee ae Se ag ee 24, 98
WTC a ee ee eee en oe ne eC eS See eee esas ee ao 99
“=

“
$ rf i ma o—— we
itt i ae -
‘ ; ee Ce Or
: hs
‘ CF a heals
7 <
' : A LS
; an a
f Ohaeis ' “' r ;
‘ } wf Is i. < ¥ a, t , |
b!
j i 7 4 ur : AEA r ae am ie
on —
i fa 2
ibd sth Vey
fa ie y
+ , > i tite wae
' , i]
‘ x
J 7 ere a
od A
- ~),
iv
re
' » $eN ay va" P eli"
‘ : t Pt Oh cit Df Tt Pa tency Be gv =
Y ot a 9 2 BEI OPA in beth Ld Fae
4 t La ts , iat : 1 Y malin
fvpdelt Mth i Mi Unie eye FE-a) Bray J evils 1) Te
. , : nar he
f arn _ ; rar.
x 3 Pag At my vy sae) Pig
| or:
, at < ‘ a dpaeag & pine ves 2
9) { - aint -
ut P. i i ioe ale thee foe a oy ey eit
rat # . 7 . rf i”
be eel yes ae Se ee eS oT er met]
ab '
be rie apie cll ane «bas 4) eae
i ; ¢ S&F a7) ‘then rr. i
, ss ; 5 a phbe pecind ‘etl Py Ae eee a eet
Y = hi
5 i eB. oa Ae wef" Taio
ya b be NY te, eae se ey ore ip a ee he BOs tetas
; 5 ‘

iy Ala

J ee: ke vv benno yt = Pe { 7
bh * [Pan se AUER cute Sh peatenn nee . aw enseewane:

noe vo son-seeealaaengautO) pbebioe Haier al quads des
o0L savant nattneeneneneg ane tananenenne are a “al 0 a

PT 4 ¢ ’ ay a - :
if See Bae veel teal be = aoe hoe a tuk ne eve as Bed

‘; D te kesu et 4 (tin eA a
a es eee a | Fk. One sre - is Wel ign 2 a J aNd Peete *

shal Polareetan peice eg eter cosh re astottecciqgn,
wrine wat é in” penis oe

Je, F titazaect casks) sake pene aaa 5s
PG us eres cvs ic. is A tS OP OS cats aohiaellonedl ak
yt Se ene ic asec ot ih lesa to -peaabortingy etd

i AS ene Re 2 MEP eer ere ers rey Saat -
ge= fe een Se ine oma

} et
oxy ; Sara } Buds
, SS ee ee ee ee ee SE ee
.

~ ’

Cc Desh - GME ine SkA «hy oh cha hag Ra aE

oer +i atoka C2 aa ON Macon?

Ue he oir en GE point ee ee ee ate Pa a hee ee

wes eid | nt ~~" '

ar; Vo tae the ote ee es Leo eee eee
. - q am

hie ‘ ‘ i . : ys €37 | 9 ‘
Get eee fe ee ee Tang eae Se (iano oral
2 an

ioe te 1, ee

y Teh 6 ie i 7

; , i? ; . ‘ ; : 4 ; he 6a% hae!
pai Uladd homes J thes 3 see

os r u
; : c 5 mt ‘
“4 7 : ) ae ity
~ . - ‘ ed tee pee tee 1p o

ry ;
‘
‘

TT

3 9088 01421 7285
if, a, i x oe of A anu te 5.
i og a ee Ch
| “a iL LF a4 ft al st
oe ta ee ta
ci a ott

I hu a ON
\ fe ee ae a

‘| vf i ‘« ¢ © a aa i Al
ie % i Wl a ‘gf ‘dM ra tuft. rie if, “‘< ‘?<
| ' i A a iit ‘ _s ‘f mn Cou A, A wt
fk Le

"0 |
ean re ee ‘e fg aN nt “ti
| cy if he a ha ‘ “a ‘4 . nd ‘

w ir a ‘al oy ut, . #

on ut we aa ¢ “vif re “ t i ee, eR ok ee

Vat ot et nl at
| ag a ws

SVC tatatat aoe itu 8
i ¥ og wl wt ee ot ws se o.O.8 OFF e 6 @ |
« wae SE SE Bh ry 4 u i ‘ ‘dl Bi i G ie ive Bt Me

{

te yi a

} al ae f
i ; yw as oy oa B 5
Cente se ead jets
im, J a 7 if a” & a” sf Sgt a
“Wt " ‘of oe ot eB
al, i ‘ A

De
7 if MG eh ih
ly re Me a me ‘h a sf iN ay i ae
rig ih ih ng ¢ MG MOM ‘aM
‘ Cc o.8 Bes

; * Wk wll Ay it ie Me hh ae
cy ci ns rt “i og i a!
ie i ee f bea: -. % at s itt ‘
4
s

=
ee
7
on

