pas ee) o
ddeicr ties
ieee

pear ymcorenre ee
arya Imprenre

ae

Sa iageeneeton

wy ,

5) ms) ‘a ect
wih: ee ;
f wari

PR “aft!

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
ENS PDP U TION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1915

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1914
i
e \ Kh Wego

oS

1B Ds heed ba thd

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1913.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, May 15, 1914.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1913. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuaries D. Waxcorr, Secretary.

lit
“Se =,

¥
4
vs

i fe
vig th

CONTENTS.

Letter irom the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to

Penerlripjectsior the annual report.  ../.24.4 2 eis 5's sens dole ocib 2 sae sels
Officials of the Institution and its branches......................222-..2-22--

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

eT SIMIEHSOMTAIMEM SOLE GOI yo erie eee 2 oe bese tM ul ay VU ey tar ale
MORES ba DTISMIMeNG seein yh eeepc y fae SP MERE Aels Sal alii i Vey Nahas Ci ebm
Bia nea aN Ren 2) 9 fs Oe eh a a eS ge pee
EME ELCONSTC Cra VION Siete rey ee Ee ta Reyes SL ye aes A lr hg

Researches and explorations:
ibansley Aecrodynamical Laboratory... «2. .22s-/2 = 2 fe nates os Dee.
Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology....................--
Bemopicabsiryey Or Panama 262052572628 el oh! Soeale oka. Sees
baovical expeditions in Africa. 2)... c2 ick. o.e fas sc- see eee oueed
ERs paet One MME ORTIEO 2 c/a iyns stg eats My 1 UNE Ae dais SE Mes ec ae
Eqn SIDErial OXPOUIOM. > jc. heduee bos. cL oer. eens ae
Anthropological studies in Siberia and Mongolia... -..... bP Sel ae
Biological survey of Panama Canal Zones. oi). 5.025.623 Sy eeke
Amchropolories! sbudiesiin Perw. 3.20 see. bs 22s wig ON oe
nenearcues tinder the Hodgkins lh und 22). o. 225...) obese ke Sl ee
Smithsonian Table at Naples Zoological Station..................-..--
ee amiman hush Bun see hc, cle ro ie). Lok ees oe lane
American School of Archeology in China...........2...-2--2-2-.22--

aU PRAISE ssh REMC K Mekl Aes we hiss Distt Stas Se ReS Ue ele aene One

LEDS MEN 70010 1 NMEA SIREN ra BA WR eR OE BOA a Se A Neg Sl IN dat
Pam levumomionial islets dele hon 22 lye. ae Bic. d ko ne ok wes Saale
Wonpresses'and ‘celebrations. . .....0)) 2). .-.2-2..)..-% pe, sp op emer geet Ve
eorre) Washineton Memorial Building:.. +... 2922). 4.302822 bed. \bens ee

[OF Re DA Sse UTS PEES Se TOI NAGI TS PE Veer ae, ee? ter a ee OI Pe
Pereine@renmericnin MhunGlogy,-o. 4.2. Le Pye oes ay ee Ae ee ee
Pipermail Ee Rehsamimeny Noy Sal ON Ne ais Ol Wee oes tae ee Se
eam el On OO C MMA cs) ce 0. AC tae a) woe le ede a iil i
PE RERtae pe MLIBOTVELLOFY Wisin eee Meteo She en fv ribeg Lee tele
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.........--...-..------+----+-
Pa Rem EV UCP Neo Wa Nepal aye es ed Wh Se Ned EN SO 2 Sink le peas
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum. .............--.
2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology........-.....-.--

3. Report on the International Exchanges...............--.----.--

4, Report on the National Zoological Park............-.-.--------

Page.
yal CONTENTS.

Page.
Appendix 5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory. ..................-.-. 87
6: Repertion the bnbrary.,. 222. eee rete ee Oa eaten ane 94
7. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.... 101
§:\ Report on the Pablicataons: -3 085) csac jc. eerie een ot tee ean 104
9: Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory: 2020) toe a ee ee 115
GENERAL APPENDIX.

The earth and sun as magnets, by George E. Hale...........................-. 145
The reaction of the planets upon the sun, by P. Puiseux...................... 159
Recent progress in astrophysics, by C. G. Abbot........--....2....------20-- 175
ame .earth smacnetism, by Gi A. Bauer so 2iee 22 based eel ee 195
Modern ideas on the end of the world, by Gustav Jaumann .................. 213
Recent developments in electromagnetism, by Eugene Bloch...............-.- 223
Wireless transmission of energy, by Elihu Thomson...................-...--- 243
Oil films on water and on mercury, by Henri Devaux......................- 261
Water and volcanic activity, by Arthur L. Day and E. S. Shepherd........... 275
Mapplesmarks, by Ch. Epry-2. 264026202. eco Se Ue ale ee 307

Notes on the geological history of the walnuts and hickories, by Edward W.

EPS ee ie kg bee HENS SU I le a ee 319
The formation of leafmold, by Frederick V. Coville .....................---- 333
The development of orchid cultivation and its bearing upon evolutionary the-

Orios. by We Costantino) 75 Sg 0 ck MC COS AUR re i, 346
The manufacture of nitrates from the atmosphere, by Ernest Kilburn Scott... 359
The geologic history of China and its influence upon the Chinese people, by Eliot

lackewolder. ‘hae N02 2/ Lue oa Dal a aC es 385
Whe problems.of heredity, by HE. Apert: 22.0. 222520. ee ee 397
Wabitsot fiddier-crabs, by A‘\S. Pearse. 2.2.4 2.05 YoY ee ee 415
The abalones of California, by Charles L. Edwards. .............-.-.......-- 429
The value of birds'to man; by James!Buekland:. 220.2%). 2. (eee Sl eee 439
Experiments in feeding hummingbirds during seven summers, by Althea R.

Barina 2 oS) ss a hg ae So OR AR a 459
What the American Bird Banding Association has accomplished during 1912,

py oward JH. Cleaves 2 yu oohl Sea Sa 2 2 OCR OS 469
The whale fisheries of the world, by Charles Rabot................----------- 481
The most ancient skeletal remains of man, by AleS Hrdlitka..............---- 491
‘The redistribution of mankind) by H, N. Dickson: ... 2.....22.0.02 22. eae 553
The earliest forms of human habitation, and their relation to the general devel-

apment of civilization, by M.Hoermes) 28202)... Seems asecieee eee oe eee 571
Feudalism in Persia; its origin, development, and present condition, by Jacques

MOUNT Oro rs) s o's 2 a'l cee Page re See ye ie a 579
Shintoism and its significance, by K. Kanokogi...............-.---------+-- 607
The Minoan and Mycenaean element in Hellenic life, by A. J. Evans......... 617
FPismeless combustion, by Carleton: Ellis. /y.. ...... 35.2. eee ee 639
Problems in smoke, fume, and dust abatement, by F. G. Cottrell............. 653
Twenty years’ progress in marine construction, by Alexander Gracie.......... 687
Creating a subterranean river and supplying a metropolis with mountain water,

by J. Bernard Walker and A. Russel] Bond!.i. 2.) J000..02: Se eae 709
The application of the physiology of color vision in modern art, by Henry G.

Keller and J. J.:R. Mackaodsesiguonk Coathac det AL: See ee 723
Fundamentals of housing reform, by James Ford. ........-....-....2-.-0-00- 741
The economic and social réle of fashion, by Pierre Clerget..................-- 755

The work of J. H.:van’t Hoff byiGs Brunaiees 25a ane see eee. Laem 767
LIST OF PLATES.

Page.

Secretary’s Report:

tbe yee sons Sere tela Ne aac 64
Earth and Sun (Hale):

[LSS Mey PAS Sa ee 146

Clip ts 32? Ae oh ee ge ge 150

Mpther NG ee ese a 152

LIST fal {pr MS eg are a ea ea 154
Astrophysics (Abbot):

[EAST | Son el 178

RE rec eer Utes ee ie a Nene eau a eit 190
Earth’s Magnetism (Bauer):

2 CES LOUD SSS 0 ry ae a 195

BLED CON een) aC mge Sara as <2 S 198

Pl AHeSP a iON eee oes Bll eo Las 204

PARE UM erect: ry skis SNe 206

LETS Ch Ne OU ei eS oe 210

Oil on Water and Mercury (Devaux):

Plarpeyilmeeie es reese ives os kd 264
LBLES RE 02 a eee a 266
[Te 2 UEC Ac ee A 268
1 ENE RCSYE) Ces 1s a eH ag 272
Water and Volcanoes (Day and Shep-
herd):
TE FNS) I DAA a a ey 280
1 EW S'S) a Be AP ae RE 282
APCD G 2 hia cme os LL a 286
LEE GiS SWAT fetal See te ae ae ate ee eg at nd 288
glo 2) i LA a ie Ge 300
6 ELECTRO WES 0 EN ge ee 302
Ripple Marks (Epry):
Le Eso A Ir Gea 308
Lee ESg Ste SY aM ee aa fo 312
PARA IR SOR A sick Ms AOA a 314
Plates 9,10...... Ape sal Bah eehebe i 316
Nitrates from Atmosphere (Scott):
LET EGE I UO At ae oO a a > 368
1 sy 1 ye a ae 372
Geology of China (Blackwelder):
Pabeuisevineene qc elo aes d 386
Lea RSH Fes) 7 SUR A eR Oe a 390
1 2 aE A a De aR 392
eli 2.512 PAs SEER NS be 394
Abalones (Edwards):
Pea Ue ee ws tad oe Sk. 438
Bird Banding (Cleaves):
SE) ER ets APA ean a i aL NR Rg ea a 478
Whale Fisheries (Rabot):
PEA ea emma een Nps I My 2 482
Platerevacoee. Ae ee a Ie 484

Page.
Ancient Man (Hrdli¢ka)
1 24 Ff) RNR go as es Se a 496
Plates: 21 Sir aii Gaius edie 2 ato 498
Piste 4 Gi hn he ap erm ee 500
Plate acuminate Bibiana sak 504
Plate if Seach cin era aii ie Bin 506
Plates 8: Oi s05. beeen es ae 508
Plates cls Wile sass se) talon ae 512
Plates oahu pepe el ek eee 514
late vipat od censcih iat Bias 516
Plate LGh hen (uk era ein G02 a a 518
Plates MMS ie OR eee ar apes eae a 520
ded owl Ed peste MeNneay A Bhaskar es 7 8 522
Plates: 20820 as ei ies aie 524
Blatev228. eee oe CR 526
Plates 23 24a wii eid sa Neues ae 528
Plates 25 S26 unig ie) tse eas 530
Plates 27.528 24: sea ae eee 532
Plates 2 ON S0 ek. Sa NSS a ae apne 534
Plates SI=33 oie ast eae 536
Plates 345355 52.2 oe oe eee 538
Platest36; 7 255 she ae aaa 540
Plates: 58339 A. we see 544
Plates 40% 4D Oia. cn 2U) sions 546
Minoan Element (Evans):
Plates Dis) eee a aplhoys aN Eaaae 634
Pi stter cr: - SR ae eee 636
Flameless Combustion (Ellis):
Plate: ps SU mane OR eee Api 650
Smoke Abatement (Cottrell):
Plaitie gsi Wen nh oak eee ie aes 665
Wey Eee MP AR te TOS CS eb re jy ES A 669
Plated: Gace ipl. 2) else ase see 668
Platesia = 75 ee Ae a at 670
Plates Sala ere nails ee aan 672
Plates 9250300 025 00. De ee ea 674
Bllartes 1-31 (a. 08 50 ts aire io aera 676
Platestl 82s a eee 678
Platesi2 225s Goh ae soe eae 680
Plates: 26-29 ee leks es ene 682
Plates'30=37 eae Soe ee 684
Subterranean River (Walker and
Bond):
Plates M2 eS Se Ree 712
Plates ‘S400 2 122s. te eee 714
Plates's;624.2 koe. a. ee 716
Plates) 7, Sa eee hie eae ees 718
Plates: DLO ws use aN Nae ete 720
Plate Lyi) ue 3 citrate ees ee 720
ee

ee Sas

y

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR’ ENDING
JUNE 30, 1913.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1918, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithsonian
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1913.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 12, 1912, and February 13, 1913.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1913.

Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1913.

Presiding officer ex officio.— Wooprow WILSON, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—Epwarp DouagLAss WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Wooprow WILSsoN, President of the United States.
Tuomas R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Epwarp DoucLass WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN, Secretary of State.
Witt1AmM Gipss McApboo, Secretary of the Treasury. .
LINDLEY MILLER GARRISON, Secretary of War.
JAMES CLARK McREYNOLDS, Attorney General.
ALBERT SIDNEY BURLESON, Postmaster General.
JOSEPHUS DANIELS, Secretary’ of the Navy.
FRANKLIN KNIGHT LANE, Secretary of the Interior.
DAvip FRANKLIN Houston, Secretary of Agriculture.
WiLtiamM Cox REDFIELD, Secretary of Commerce
WILLIAM BaucHor WILSON, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Epwarp D. WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
THoMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Henry Casot Lopcr, Member of the Senate.
Avucustus O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.
WittisAmM J. Stonr, Member of the Senate.
JoHN DauzeLL, Member of the House of Representatives.
Scorr Frrris, Member of the House of Representatives.
Irvin S. Pepper, Member of the House of Representatives.
ANDREW D. WHITE, citizen of New York.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES FI’. CHoatTe, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
JoHN B. HENDERSON, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, citizen of Indiana.
Executive committee.—A. O. Bacon, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, JOHN DALZELL.
Secretary of the Institution—CuHaARLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant secretary in charge of the National Museum.—RicHARD RATHBUN.
Assistant secretary in charge of Library and Exchanges.—FREpERICK W.
TRUE.
Chief clerk.—Harry W. DORSEY.
Accountant and disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.
Editor —A. Howarp CLARK.
Assistant librarian.—PavuL BRocKETT.
Property clerk.—J. H. HI.

x
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. XI

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio.—CHARLES D. Wa tcoTt, Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

Assistant secretary in charge.—RICHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative assistant.—W. pr C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WILLIAM H. HoLMeEs, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL,

Curators.—R. S. BASSLER, A. Howarp CLarK, F. W. CLARKE, F. V. COvILLE,
W. H. Dati, B. W. EVERMANN, CHESTER G. GILBERT, W. H. HoLMES, WALTER
Hoven, L. O. Howarp, ALES HrpiicKa, FREDERICK L. LEwTon, GrorcEe C.
Maynarp, G. P. MrrRRILL, GeRRIT S. MILLER, Jr., RIcHARD RATHBUN, ROBERT
Ripeway, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Associate curators.—J. C. CRAWFORD, DAviD WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. Hoimes.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—RANDOLPH I. GEARE.

Disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.

Chief of exhibits (Biology) —JamMers E. BENEDICT.

Superintendent of construction and labor.—J. S. GoLpsmMitTH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—N. P. ScuppEr.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE.

Registrar.—S. C. Brown.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist in charge.—F. W. HonGr.

Ethnologists—J. WALTER FEWKES, J. N. B. Hewitt, F. W. Hopes, FRANCIS
La FLESCHE, TRUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES Moonry, MATILDA Coxr STEVENSON,
JOHN R. SWANTON.

Special ethnologist.—Lro J. FRACHTENBERG,

Honorary philologist.—FRANz BOAS.

Editor.—JosEPH G. GURLEY.

Librarian.—ELua LEARY.

Illustrator.—DrE LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Assistant secretary in charge.—FREDERICK W. TRUE.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER.
Assistant superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. E. Fowl te, Jr.
Bolometric assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—LErONARD C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
CHARLES D. WALCOTT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING FUNE 30, 1913,

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith a report on the
operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913, including work placed by Con-
gress under the direction of the Board of Regents in the United
States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the
International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the United States Bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature. There is also included
an outline of work proposed in the Langley Aerodynamical Labora-
tory, the establishment of which has been authorized by the Board
of Regents under a grant from the Hodgkins fund of the Institution.
The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper
and briefly summarizes the operations of its several branches, while
the appendices contain detailed reports by the assistant secretaries
and others directly in charge of various activities. The reports on
operations of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology will also be published as independent volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice President and the
Chief Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three
_ Members of the Senate, three Members of the House of Representa-
tives, and six citizens, “two of whom shall be resident in the city

44863°—sm 1918——1 1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.”

In regard to the personnel of the board it becomes my sad duty
to record the death on October 30, 1912, of its Chancellor, James
Schoolcraft Sherman, Vice President of the United States. Resolu-
tions in memory of Chancellor Sherman were adopted by the Regents
at their annual meeting on December 12, when the Hon. Edward D.
White, Chief Justice of the United States, was elected Chancellor
of the Institution.

Dr. Andrew D. White was reappointed as Regent to serve until
June 26, 1918; the Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks to serve until July 3,
1918; and Judge Gray to serve until February 7, 1919. Senator
Bacon was reappointed a Regent, and Senator William J. Stone was
appointed to succeed the Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, whose term as
United States Senator expired in March, 1913. The Hon, Thomas R.
Marshall, Vice President of the United States, became a Regent on
March 4, 1913.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor ;
Thomas R. Marshall, Vice President of the United States; Henry
Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; Augustus O. Bacon, Member
of the Senate; William J. Stone, Member of the Senate; John Dal-
zell, Member of the House of Representatives; Scott Ferris, Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives; Irvin S. Pepper, Member of
the House of Representatives; Andrew D. White, citizen of New
York; Alexander Graham Bell, citizen of Washington, D. C.;
George Gray, citizen of Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of
Massachusetts; John B. Henderson, jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.;
and Charles W. Fairbanks, citizen of Indiana.

Regular meetings of the Board of Regents were held on December
12, 1912, and February 18, 19138, and a special meeting on May 1,
1913. The minutes of these meetings have been printed as usual
for the use of the Regents, while such important matters acted upon
as are of public interest are reviewed under appropriate heads in the
present report of the secretary. The annual financial report of the
Executive Committee has also been issued in the usual form, and a
detailed statement of disbursements from Government appropria-
tions under the direction of the Institution for the maintenance of
the National Museum, the National Zoological Park, and other
branches will be submitted by the secretary to Congress in compli-
ance with the law.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The activities of the Smithsonian Institution under its plan of
organization cover practically the entire field of the natural and
physical sciences, as well as anthropological and archeological re-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

searches. The Institution was founded for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge. It is an Institution of record, research, and
education, and also of cooperation. It offers facilities for the ad-
vancement of human knowledge through original research and in-
vestigation in every field and educates the people through the pub-
lication of the results of such researches. There is reciprocal
cooperation between the Smithsonian Institution and the several
departments of the United States Government and learned societies
in this country and abroad in carrying forward important explora-
tions and lines of investigation.

Some of the scientific studies originating with the Smithsonian
Institution in this country have since developed into distinct and
important bureaus and departments of the Government. The influ-
ence of the Institution is world-wide; through its international ex-
change service alone it is in correspondence with more than 60,000
individuals and learned societies'in the United States and prac-
tically in every land on the globe. During its entire existence there
has been an unbroken record of friends intercourse with every
agency devoted to the encouragement of learning. As was said in
1896, by the late Dr. Daniel Coit Gilman, “ Without any Puibonaee)
Santen the power to bestow much pecuniary assistance, * *
the Smithsonian has been, and is, the great auxiliary of science and
education throughout the length and breadth of the land.”

The extent of the activities of the Institution is limited only by
the amount of the funds available. During recent years its private
income has been supplemented on several occasions by friends of the
Institution who have generously provided the means for carrying
on certain explorations and lines of research, but opportunities for
further important work constantly arise which must be declined or
temporarily held in abeyance. Some of the projects proposed are
such as could not properly be carried on through Government appro-
priation, but which the Smithsonian Institution could readily under-
take were the means available.

Research Corporation—The work of the Research Corporation,
organized primarily for handling the Cottrell patents offered to the
Institution for the benefit of research, has been progressing steadily
during the year. As explained in detail in my last report, this cor-
poration was organized February 8, 1912, under the laws of the
State of New York as a means of furthering scientific and technical
research. It objects as stated in its prospectus are:

First, to acquire inventions and patents and to make them more available in
the arts and industries, while using them as a source of income, and, second,
to apply all profits derived from such use to the advancement of technical and
scientific investigation and experimentation through the agency of the Smith-

sonian Institution and such other scientific and educational institutions and
societies as may be selected by the directors. For these purposes the corpora-
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion has been capitalized at $20,000, divided into 200 shares, but the charter
provides that no dividends shall be paid and that the entire net profits shall
be devoted to research, all the stock being held under a stockholders’ agree-
ment, which recites that the corporation has been organized for the purpose of
aiding and encouraging technical and scientific research, and not for personal
or individual profit.

At the present time many discoveries are constantly being made, which un-
doubtedly possess a greater or less potential value, but which are literally being
allowed to go to waste for lack of thorough development. This is due, in some
cases, to the fact that the inventors are men in the service of the Government
or in the universities or technical schools, who are retarded either by official
positions, lack of means, or reluctance to engage in commercial enterprises,
and in other cases to the fact that a discovery made incidentally in the labora-
tory of a manufacturing corporation does not lend itself to the particular pur-
pose of such corporation. ‘True conservation demands that such by-products
as these shall be developed and utilized to the fullest extent of which they are
capable. The Research Corporation aims to supply this demand and, through
the cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution and the universities, to carry
forward the work of investigation alréady begun by others upon lines which
promise important results and to perfect such inventions as may prove to
possess commercial value, thus bringing scientific institutions into closer rela-
tions with industrial activities and furthering the improvements of industrial
processes.

The establishment of the Research Corporation was rendered uo
mediately possible by the acquisition, through the gift of Dr. F. G!
Cottrell, of the United States Bureau of Mavies! and his associates, of
a nob set of patents relating to the precipitation of dust, anges
and chemical fumes by the use of electrical currents. These devices
are in operation in several States, and are fully described i in ‘an’ ‘ar-
ticle in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, for August, 1911:

A number of other patents in various fields of industry have been
offered by officers of the Government and scientific institutions, as
well as by manufacturing corporations holding paténts not available
for their own purposes, and undoubtedly there are many others, both
in this country and abroad, who will be glad to have their inventions
utilized for the benefit of scientific research. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution is interested in the management of this corporation through
the membership of the secretary in its board of directors, which is
composed of business and professional men, many of whom have had
experience in large industrial and mining enterprises.

The George W. Poore bequest.—By the terms of the will of the
iate George W. Poore, of Lowell, Mass., who died December 17, 1910,
the Smithsonian Institution becomes his residuary legatee. As men-
tioned in my 1910 report, the estate, estimated at about $40,000, is
bequeathed under the condition that the income of this sum should
be added to the principal until a total of $250,000 should have been
reached, and that then the income only should be used for the pur-
poses for which the Institution was created. The estate is still in
process of settlement by the executors,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

As a reason for making this bequest to the Smithsonian Institution,
Mr. Poore in his will says: “ I make this gift not so much because of
its amount as because I hope it will prove an example for other
Americans to follow, by supporting and encouraging so wise and
beneficent an institution as I believe the Smithsonian Institution to be,
and yet it has been neglected and overlooked by American citizens.”

The Kahn Foundation—The Smithsonian Institution is closely
allied with a number of organizations and movements of importance
to the public through the membership of the secretary in various
boards of trustees. Some of these are mentioned elsewhere in this
report and among others are the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
with whose administration the secretary has been connected since
its establishment, and “ The Kahn Foundation for the Foreign Travel
of American Teachers.” The last-named organization was founded
in 1911 through a deed of gift and trust between Albert Kahn, of
Paris, France, of the first part, and Edward D. Adams, Nicholas
Murray Butler, Henry Fairfield Osborn, of New York; Charles W.
Eliot, of Cambridge; and Charles D. Walcott, of Washington, of the
second part. The founder had heretofore established certain trust
funds in France, Germany, Japan, England, and other countries for
the purpose of defraying the expenses of teachers and supplying them
with what he termed “ bourses de voyage” so as to enable them to
travel, observe, and study in foreign countries. He believes “ that
the cause of civilization may be greatly encouraged and promoted by
travel on the part of teachers, scholars, and investigators, and that,
by the study and. comparison of national manners and customs, and of
political, social, religious, and economic institutions of foreign coun-
tries, they will become better qualified to teach and to take part in
the instruction and education of the people of their own nation.” In
the selection of beneficiaries of the Kahn Foundation preference is
given to professors of American colleges or universities and, as a
rule, the itinerary is expected to involve an absence from America of
at least a year. The limited size of the fund does not permit the
granting of more than two or three fellowships each year.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

BeMeseO La STMUUNSOM lee Ge mee wae a ee a Eee ee $515, 169. 00
Resmusrywlesacy Of Smithson, 86F=225 = = + ee 26, 210. 63
DEVOSit troMmEsavings, of InCOMe? 186i 2222250 Jee ee ee ee 108, 620. 37
Bequest on sames; Hamibtton., 1S fia22= 28 ee ee $1, 000
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895______________ 1, 000

2, 000. 00
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Bequestiof, Simeon Habel 1 SSO ae ne a eR RE NSU pale Rie $500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881_---_________________ 51, 500. 00
Giftrof Thomas G. Hodrkins) 1801s Sas ee eee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
DepOsit trom) Saving svoL Income; 100502 = eae eee eee eee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1907___________________ 7, 918. 69
Deposit from: savings of incomes tOlj2s 2 =e eee 636. 94
Bequestiof William (Jones hhees Ol Sls sss Nee ee a ee ee 251. 95

Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert Stanton
ACV TEVA) aL ee I BR TR NRL A ne Pe ee 9, 692. 42
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury_______ 955, 500. 00

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) —--_--________ 42, 000. 00

oh Roy ez RE of sy pan ee i KS) aU get DOUG Lie sume eet TES as Sy a 997, 500. 00

There were originally four pieces of real estate bequeathed to the
Institution by the late R. S. Avery, but during the year one of these
pieces and a part of another were sold and the proceeds added to the
permanent fund. The real estate owned by the Institution is free
from taxation and yields a nominal rental.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$92,870.74, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent foun-
dation, $58,875.12; contributions frgm various sources for specific
purposes, $16,575.50; and from other miscellaneous sources, $17,920.12 ;
all of which was deposited in the Treasury of the United States to
the credit of the current account of the Institution.

With the balance of $33,060.09 on July 1, 1912, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $125,930.83. The disbursements
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $92,289.43, leaving a balance of $33,641.40 on
deposit June 30, 1918, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1913:

Prenat Oma Ox Cla 10 yee aa Ee EL $32, 000
American ethnology222 42322 es eee eens 42, 000
ASTRODHY SICA -ObSenvato lyases 3 is hu ei ae eens 13, 000
National Museum: 3 OL
Murniburecand shite sme = ween ee Jie. Leia eles 50, 000
eating ame): Verb tis gees se ee eh 50, 000
Preservation:of collections {222 2--—- 2220 22> eee ee 300, 000
I 200) :¢: ae seed omer ee eer a ONE Reem NEE eyo) UE Lh Se 2, 000
OS ea Oc as hg RR RAN Nas aT a a 500
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. i

PN Histo Tie le OO LO SL Crk: eis iw eee CANOE AAT SR ULE Ss ee $100, 000
Bridge over Rock Creek, National Zoological Park_-_______-__-____-_ 20, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_____________________ 7, 500

BUGS EH a I a A ea Se eR Sa ae 627, 000

{n addition to the above specific amounts to be disbursed by the
Institution, there was included under the general appropriation for
public printing and binding an allotment of $74,900 to cover the cost
of printing and binding the annual report and other Government
publications issued by the Institution, and to be disbursed by the
Public Printer.

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

The Smithsonian Institution has continued to carry on field work
in various lines throughout the world by means of small allotments
_ from its funds. It has also accomplished a great deal in the way of
exploration and research through the generosity of frienas of the
Institution, who have contributed funds for special work or provided
opportunities for participation in explorations which they had under-
taken personally or through the aid of others. Each year, however,
the Institution is obliged to forego opportunities for important in-
vestigations through lack of sufficient funds.

I can here only briefly mention some of the explorations and re-
searches in progress during the past year. Accounts of activities
connected with the Astrophysical Observatory, the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, and the United States National Museum are given in
other parts of this report by those in direct charge of those branches
of the Institution.

LANGLEY AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents on May 1, 19138, the follow-
ing resolutions were adopted:

Whereas the Smithsonian Institution possesses a laboratory for the study of
questions relating to aerodynamics, which has been closed since the death of
its director, the late Dr. S. P. Langley, formerly Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution; and

Whereas it is desirable to foster and continue, in the Institution with which
he was connected, the aerodynamical researches which he inaugurated ;
Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby

authorizes the Secretary of the Institution, with the advice and approval of the

executive committee, to reopen the Smithsonian Institution laboratory for the
study of aerodynamics and take such stens as in his judgment may be necessary
to provide for the organization and administration of the laboratory on a per-
manent basis.

That the aerodynamic laboratory of the Institution shall be known as the

Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

That the functions of the laboratory shall be the study of the problems of
aerodromics, particularly those of aerodynamics, with such research and ex-
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

perimentation as may be necessary to increase the safety and effectiveness of
aerial locomotion for the purposes of commerce, national defense, and the wel-
fare of man.

That the secretary is authorized to secure, as far as practicable, the co-
operation of governmental and other agencies in the development of acrogrom:
ical research under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.

The Regents also authorized the secretary to appoint an advisory
committee; to add, as means are provided, other laboratories and
agencies; to group them into a bureau organization; and to secure the
cooperation with them of the Government and other agencies.

In accordance with the above general plan an advisory committee
was organized at a meeting convened at the Institution on May 23,
1913. The official status, organization, agencies, resources, and
facilities of this committee are set forth in a statement reprinted in
the appendix to the present. report.

In preparing plans for carrying forward investigations in various
lines a study is being made of researches in progress in other coun-
tries, and an allotment has been made from the Hodgkins fund for
the maintenance, in part, of the laboratory.

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY.

During the field season of the fiscal year 1912-13, or the spring and
summer of 1913, I continued my geological work in the Canadian
Rockies. A month was spent in the Robson Park district of British
Columbia, and Jasper Park, Alberta, our camp being on the conti-
nental divide near Berg Lake, northwest of the Yellowhead Pass,
through which the Grand Trunk Pacific and Canadian Northern
Railways have beens built.

Considerable collections of fossils were made at several localities,
photographs were taken, and several places in the geological section
studied in 1912 were examined. This was rendered necessary by
reason of my having been driven out of the region by continued rain
and snow storms the previous year.

From the Robson district I went to Burgess Pass, north of Field,
British Columbia, and worked at the Middle Cambrian fossil quarry
until late in the season. Both in the Robson district and also at Bur-
gess Pass I was assisted by my two sons, Sidney and Stuart, who
have had many years’ experience in field work in the Rocky Moun-
tains. Mr. R. D. Mesler, of the United States National Museum,
spent nearly the entire field season collecting at Burgess Pass.
Special effort was made to finish collecting at this famous locality,
and at the close of the field season a collection of several thousand
specimens weighing over two and a half tons was shipped to Wash-
ington.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF PANAMA,

A plan has been formulated and some progress has been made in
certain lines of field work for a geological survey of Panama, under
the joint auspices of the Isthmian Canal Commission, the United
States Geological Survey, and the Smithsonian Institution, and an
allotment has been made from the Institution’s funds toward the ex-
penses of such investigation. The general plan of the survey com-
prises a systematic study of the physiography, stratigraphy and
structural geology, geologic history, geologic correlation, mineral re-
sources (including coal, oil, and other fields), petrography and pale-
ontology of the Canal Zone, and of as much of the adjacent areas of
the Isthmian region as is feasible. In this survey an opportunity is
afforded for working out in detail the succession of the geologic for-
mations and the study of the structure, petrography, and paleontology
of a Central American area such as has never before existed, and
probably never will be realized again. It is possible to make and
properly characterize a standard geologic section of this part of the
world, one with which the more obscure exposures of adjacent areas
may be compared. ‘There is already nearly completed a section of
each side of the Culebra Cut in a horizontal scale of 1: 5,000, vertical
seale 1: 2,500; and a general section has been made from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, with collections from every fossiliferous exposure seen.
A basis has been practically determined for the intercorrelation of
the formations across the Isthmus and for correlation with the Gulf
States, also with certain formations in some of the West Indian
Islands.

Upon the completion of this survey the Institution will publish a
general account of the work accomplished, and later it is planned to
print a detailed report of the geological data of the Isthmus and
adjoining regions.

BIOLOGICAL EXPEDITIONS IN AFRICA.

Rainey African expedition—The Paul J. Rainey expedition in
British East Africa came to a successful close in February, 1912.
The collections, numbering 5,750 large and small mammals, 400 birds,
2,000 reptiles, and 500 miscellaneous specimens, included a large
number of new genera and species since described in the publications
of the Institution and the National Museum. During this expedition
Mr. Edmund Heller, of the National Museum, who had previously
served as naturalist on the expedition under Col. Roosevelt, was the
guest of Mr. Rainey, who provided him all the native assistants that
he could use, and accorded him perfect freedom as regards choice of
collecting ground. Mr. Heller was thus able to visit the exact regions
from which material was most needed to supplement that procured
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

by the previous expedition. After studying the mammals in the
British Museum, Mr. Heller reports that the United States National
Museum now has the finest series of East African mammals in the
world. Eighty lions were secured on the expedition, which more
than tripled the highest previous record for Africa.

The Childs Frick Expedition—As mentioned in my last report,
Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, United States Army, associate in zoology in
the National Museum, who had served on the expedition under Col.
Roosevelt, accompanied Mr. Childs Frick, of New York, on a hunt-
ing and collecting trip in the territory north of that visited by Col.
Roosevelt and Mr. Rainey, covering at the same time certain parts of
Abyssinia, northern British East Africa, and the country lying about
Lake Rudolf. The expedition ended in September, 1912. The col-
lections as a whole embraced plants, mammals, birds, reptiles, batra-
chians, fishes, mollusks, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. A
part of the large collection of birds obtained by this expedition is
deposited in the National Museum.

EXPLORATIONS IN BORNEO.

Abbott Borneo expedition —Through the generosity of Dr. W. L.
Abbott, who for many years was engaged in natural history and
ethnological ‘investigations in the Malay Archipelago, a fund has
been provided for natural history field work in Dutch East Borneo.

Nothing has been published concerning this practically unknown
region, and the National Museum had no collections from East
Borneo, although there were a few from the west and south coasts
of Borneo. During the past year Mr. Raven, in charge of this
exploration, succeeded in securing a very interesting series of the
characteristic mammals of the country, such as orangs, deer, wild
pigs, squirrels and smaller rodents, and other interesting species.

Mr. Streeter’s exploration in Borneo.—Mr. Daniel Denison Streeter,
jr., of Brooklyn, having offered his services as a collaborator in
zoology of the National Museum, sailed from New York on April 4,
1912, and returned December 24, 1912. Some of his thrilling experi-
ences in the interior of Borneo are described in his interesting report
to the Institution. He passed from Sarawak into Dutch Borneo
by ascending the Rejang River and crossing the mountains on the
dividing line to the Kajan River. He then ascended to the head
of this river and crossed another range to the headwaters of the
Mahakam River, which he descended to the Strait of Macassar.
During his trip he secured some interesting collections of mammals,
reptiles, and anthropological specimens, part of which have been
received by the Museum, but many additional specimens were neces-
sarily left behind in the mountains and may not be recovered.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ai

In describing his journey Mr. Streeter writes:

Arriving at Kuching, the capital of the Kingdom of Sarawak, in north-
western Borneo. I apprised the officials of my plan to cross Borneo. They
helped me with every means in their power, although they told me that no man
had ever yet been across Borneo, and that they did not think it possible for me
to do it. * * * JT erossed a bay 200 miles wide in a Chinese junk to the
mouth of the Rejang River. Here I engaged three Malays aud their canoe to
take me S80 miles up the river to the island of Sibu. * * * A little Malay
river steamer arrived and took me 90 miles farther up the river—as far as it
could go. At this head of navigation is a little native town called Kapit, and
here I again took to dugout canoes, this time for good and all. * * * It
took me two months to ascend this river to its headwaters. I collected
specimens of reptiles and mammals, together with interesting anthropological
specimens, took photographs of all kinds, studied the natives, the rivers, the
weather, vegetable life in general, made notes on everything, and mapped
my course as accurately as I could with the instruments in my possession.
* %* * T crossed the main range of mountains forming the backbone of
Borneo to the headwaters of the Kajan River. I estimate the altitude of the
pass through which I crossed the mountains at a little over 3,000 feet. * * *
[He then proceeded] in dugout canoes down one branch of the Kajan River
and up the main river for several days to the immense village of Long Nawong.
This village comprises about 3,000 souls, ruled by a native rajah, who visited
me and with whom I exchanged presents. Here I set out with one canoe and
five head-hunters as paddlers and continued up the Kajan River. A flood
arose, my canoe went to the bottom, and we had to swim for shore. I saved
my rifle and my tin box of maps, papers, diaries, and notes.

Continuing on foot up the river we fell in with a party of 40 head-hunters
of the Bahau Tribe and I arranged to travel with them, sending back my five
Kajan paddlers. With this Bahau troupe I continued up the Kajan River
to its headwaters and over another range of mountains to the headwaters
of the Mahakam River. * * * After losing my collection I immediately
began a second collection, and this assumed the proportions of the first as I
proceeded. When within about 500 miles of the mouth of the Mahakam River
I came to the first outpost of civilization, the Dutch military post of Long
Iram, in charge of a Dutch captain and a company of native Javanese. Upon
hearing my story the captain promised to send a military expedition up into the
interior, where the Dutch had never been before, and try and secure the outfit
which I had left at these native villages. * * * I boarded a little flat-
bottomed Malay river steamer, which * * * floated on down the river to
the coast.

LYMAN SIBERIAN EXPEDITION.

The expedition to the Altai Mountains, which was financed by Dr.
Theodore Lyman, of Cambridge, Mass., as mentioned in my last
report, returned to Washington September 16, 1912. Mr. Ned
Hollister, a naturalist of the National Museum, accompanied Dr.
Lyman. The expedition resulted in securing 350 mammals for the
National Museum and 300 birds for the Museum of Comparative
Zoology, Cambridge. The region covered was in the Kurai dis-
trict, Government of Tomsk. The mammal collection is one of the
most important received in recent years, as the region had not been
represented in the Museum, and the fauna was of special interest
on account of its close relationship with that of North America.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN SIBERIA AND MONGOLIA.

With the view of securing further information as to the origin of
the race that peopled America, a visit was made to certain portions of
Siberia and Mongolia by Dr. Hrdlicka, of the National Museum, dur-
ing the summer of 1912. This work was undertaken partly under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and partly in the interest
of the Panama-California Exposition of San Diego.

Besides field observations made by Dr. Hrdlicka, an examination
was made of the anthropological collections in the various Siberian
museums in the region covered. He saw or was told of thousands
upon thousands of burial mounds, or “ kourgans,” dating from the
present time back to the period when nothing but stone implements
were used by man in those regions. And he saw and learned of
numerous large caverns, particularly in the mountains bordering the
Yenisei River, which yield human remains and offer excellent oppor-
tunities for investigation.

A brief account of Dr. Hrdli¢ka’s studies is given by him in a
pamphlet published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
in which he says:

In regard to the living people, the writer had the opportunity of seeing nu-
merous Buriats, representatives of a number of tribes on the Yenisei and Aba-
can Rivers, many thousands of Mongolians, a number of Tibetans, and many
Chinese, with a few Manchurians. * * * Among all these people there are
visible many and unmistakable traces of admixture or persistence of what
appears to have been the older population of these regions, pre-Mongolian and
especially pre-Chinese, as we know these nations at the present day. Those
representing these vestiges belong partly to the brachycephalic and in a smaller
extent to the dolichocephalic type, and resemble to the point of identity Amer.
ican Indians of corresponding head form. * * *

The physical resemblances between these numerous outcroppings of the older
blood and types of northeastern Asia and the American Indian can not be re-
garded as accidental, for they are numerous as well as important, and can not
be found in parts of the world not peopled by the yellow-brown race; nor can
they be taken as an indication of American migration to Asia, for emigration
of man follows the laws of least resistance or greatest advantage, and these
conditions surely lay more in the direction from Asia to America than the
reverse.

In conclusion, it may be said that from what he learned in eastern Asia, and
weighing the evidence with due respect to other possible views, the writer feels
justified in advancing the opinion that there exist to-day over large parts of
eastern Siberia, and in Mongolia, Tibet, and other regions in that part of the
world, numerous remains, which now form constituent parts of more modern
tribes or nations, of a more ancient population (related in origin, perhaps, with
the latest paleolithic EHuropean), which was physically identical with and in all
probability gave rise to the American Indian.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

The biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone, organized by the
Institution in 1910, was brought to a close during the past year as
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

far as field work was concerned, and some of the results have been
published. ‘The natural history collections made by the survey have
added very valuable material to the National Museum series of
mammals, birds, fishes, reptiles, and amphibians, land and fresh-
water mollusks, flowering plants and ferns, and specimens of micro-
scopic plant and animal life.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN PERU.

During the past year a second trip was made to Peru by Dr.
Hrdlicka in continuation of the brief but very interesting researches
made by him in that country in 1910. The principal objects of the
trip were the mapping out as far as possible of the anthropological
distributions of the prehistoric Peruvian, more particularly the coast
people; the determination of the physical type of the important
Nasca group of people, which represent one of the highest American
cultures; further inquiry as to man’s antiquity on the west coast of
South America; and the extension of Dr. Hrdlitka’s researches on
pre-Columbian pathology. Important collections were made for the
National Museum, as well as for the Panama-California Exposition
at San Diego. A very perceptible change for the worse was observed
in the state of preservation of the ancient remains, both skeletal and
archeological. Dr. Hrdlicka reports:

The major part of the old population of the extensive coast region were
found everywhere to belong to the brachycephalic type, intimately related to
the Maya-Zapotec type in the north. The Nasca people were one of the purest
groups belonging to this type. Wherever they lived these people of the Peru-
vian coast were wont to practice, more or less, the anteroposterior head deforma-
tion. They have spread along the valleys to the foothills of the Cordillera, and
have probably in some instances penetrated into the mountains. Meanwhile,
however, they became in many though not all localities more or less mixed, or
rather mingled, with dolicho or near dolichocephalic elements which came from
or across the mountains.

As to man’s antiquity, the results were wholly negative; no trace of man of
geological age, nor even of an ancient man of the present epoch, were discovered.

The density of the pre-Columbian population was in some localities greater,
in others probably less, than at the present time.

As to pathology, the people of the mountains were found to have been much
healthier than those of the coast. The most common disease leaving its traces
on the bones in ancient Peru was arthritis. In strictly pre-Columbian ceme-
teries there was no rachitis, syphilis, tuberculosis, or cancer. Wounds of skull
were very common. In the mountains numerous interesting instances of tre-
panation were discovered.

Further explorations in the mountainous parts of Peru are urgent.

RESEARCHES UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

As mentioned in my last report, a limited grant was made from the
Hodgkins fund for carrying on certain observations on nocturnal
radiation at various altitudes. The results of this research, as also
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of several other lines of investigation in connection therewith, pro-
vided for by an additional grant, are discussed on another page by
Mr. Abbot in his report on the Astrophysical Observatory. There
was also allotted from the Hodgkins fund a grant for carrying on
aeronautical researches in connection with the Langley Aerodynami-
cal Laboratory, discussed in other paragraphs.

There was in press at the expense of this fund during the year
a paper by Dr. Leonard Hill and associates, discussing the results of
important researches made by them in London on the influence of
the atmosphere of crowded places upon our health and comfort.

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

In order to afford an opportunity for American biologists to study
marine life under exceptionally favorable facilities, the Institution
for 20 years past has maintained a table at the Naples Zoological
Station. Investigators are assigned the use of this table for stated
periods on the recommendation of an advisory committee appointed
for the purpose. The authorities of the station have on several oc-
casions courteously allowed more than one occupant of the table
when there was overlapping in periods of appointment.

During the year covered by the present report Mr. Sidney I.
Kornhauser and Mr. Edward C. Day, both of Harvard University,
have pursued studies at the Smithsonian table.

THE HARRIMAN TRUST FUND.

Under a special trust fund, established by Mrs. E. H. Harriman,
for his investigations in natural history and ethnology, Dr. C. Hart
Merriam has equipped two offices, the principal one at Washington,
D. C., the other at Lagunitas in west central California, a convenient
center for field work on the Pacific coast and a favorable place for
the preparation of results.

His principal work during the year has been a continuation of a
monographic study of the American bears. Assistance in the way
of the loan of specimens has been rendered by all of the larger
museums of America, including the Government museums of Canada,
at Ottawa and Victoria, and by a number of sportsmen and hunters,
who have placed their private material at his disposal. This has
been still further augmented by the purchase of specimens, mainly
skulls, of rare and little known species, some of which are the only
ones in existence. In view of the fact that several species of our
large bears are already extinct and others on the verge of extinction,
the great value of this material is obvious.

In connection with the study of the big bears a new method has
been developed, namely, an intensive study of teeth from photo-
graphs. Owing to the large size of bear skulls, it is impossible to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15:

bring the teeth of several individuals near enough together to admit
a direct comparison. To obviate this difficulty, the teeth have been
photographed natural size. Series of these photographs arranged
closely side by side permit direct critical comparison of a number of
specimens at one time, favoring the recognition of resemblances and
differences not easily detected from the specimens. This method
would seem to be available in the case of other groups of large
mammals.

Owing to the desirability of completing the study of the bears as
early as possible, but little field work was undertaken. Still, a few
tribes of Indians were visited, and half a dozen vocabularies col-
lected, completing the series of vocabularies of the 25 existing lin-
guistic stocks of California and Nevada.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY IN CHINA.

At a meeting held at the Smithsonian Institution on January 38,
1913, there was discussed the establishment of an American school of
archeology in China. The objects of the school as proposed are:
(1) To prosecute archeological research in eastern China; (2) to
afford opportunity and facilities for investigation to promising and
exceptional students, both foreign and native, in Asiatic archeology ;
and (3) to preserve objects of archeological and cultural interest in
museums in the countries to which they pertain in cooperation with
eXisting organizations, such as the Société d’Ankor, ete,

The management of the affairs of the school was placed in the
hands of an executive committee of five, consisting of Dr. Charles D.
Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. Charles
Henry Butler, reporter of the United States Supreme Court; Dr.
Harry Lane Wilson, of Johns Hopkins .University; Mr, Charles L.
Freer, of Detroit; and Mr. Eugene Meyer, jr., of New York. The
general committee consists of 15 gentlemen especially interested in
archeological research in China, with Dr. Walcott as chairman and
Mr. Butler as secretary. Arrangements were made for a preliminary
survey in the Chinese Republic for the information of the general
committee in considering the permanent organization of the proposed

school.
PUBLICATIONS.

The publications issued by the Smithsonian Institution and its
branches during the last fiscal year made a total of 6,260 printed
pages, and the aggregate distribution comprised 182,883 copies of
pamphlets and bound volumes.

The Institution accomplishes one of its principal objects, “the
diffusion of knowledge,” by means of its several series of publications
which record results of original researches, accounts of explorations,
the progress achieved in science and industry, and general informa-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion in all branches of human knowledge believed to be of value to
those interested in the promotion of science and the welfare of man.

The Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, in quarto form,
and the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, in octavo, are printed
at the expense of the Smithsonian fund, and necessarily in limited
editions, being distributed chiefly to certain large libraries through-
out the world, where they are available for public reference. The
Smithsonian Annual Report, however, is printed at the expense of
congressional appropriations, and in an edition of several thousand
copies, thus permitting its wide distribution. The principal feature
of the annual report is a general appendix containing about 30 se-
lected or original memoirs illustrating the more remarkable and im-
portant developments in the physical and natural sciences, as well
as showing the general character of the operations of the Institution,

In addition to the publications mentioned above, there are several
other series of works issued under the direction of the Institution
through its various branches or bureaus. These include the Annual
Report, and the Proceedings and Bulletin of the National Museum;
the Contributions from the National Herbarium; the Annual Report
and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology; and the An-
nals of the Astrophysical Observatory, all of which are Government
publications, being printed through annual allotments by act of
Congress.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—The chief character-
istic of memoirs printed in the Contributions to Knowledge is that
they are records and discussions of original investigations and con-
stitute important additions to knowledge. Since the establishment
of this series in 1848, about 150 of these memoirs have been published
in 35 quarto volumes. The most recent memoir of this series, re-
viewed in my last report, was the “ Langley Memoir on Mechanical
Flight,” recording the experiments of the late Secretary Langley,
which resulted in his successful demonstration of the practicability
of aerial navigation with machines heavier than air.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections—In this series 40 papers
were issued, forming parts of five volumes, the titles of which are
enumerated in the appendix herewith. Among these numerous
papers were two articles by the secretary describing further results
of his studies of Cambrian fossils, a bibliography of the geology
and mineralogy of tin, and a large number of papers descriptive of
results of the Smithsonian African expedition under Col. Roosevelt,
the Paul J. Rainey African expedition, and the Smithsonian biologi-
cal survey of the Panama Canal Zone. There were also in press at the
close of the year three additional papers on Cambrian fossils, one
of them, in particular, giving an account of the Mount Robson region ;
and a paper, as already mentioned, by Dr. Leonard Hill and other
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

.

investigators of the Physical Laboratory of the London Hospital
Medical College, discussing the results of experiments to determine
“The influence of the atmosphere on our health and comfort in con-
fined and crowded places.” The authors conclude that—

No symptoms of discomfort, fatigue, or illness results, so long as the tempera-
ture and moisture are kept low, from air rendered, in the chemical sense, highly
impure by the presence of human beings. Such air can be borne for hours
without any evidence of bodily or mental depression. * * * Heat stagna-
tion is therefore the one and only cause of the discomfort, and all the symptoms
arising in the so-called vitiated atmosphere of crowded rooms are dependent
on heat stagnation. The moisture, stillness, and warmth of the atmosphere are
responsible for all effects, and all the efforts of the heating and ventilating
engineer should therefore be directed toward cooling the air in crowded places
and cooling the bodies of the people by setting the air in motion by means of
fans. * * * The essentials required of any good system of ventilation are,
then: (1) Movement, coolness, proper degree of relative moisture of the air,
and (2) reduction of the mass influence of pathogenic bacteria. The chemical
purity of the air is of very minor importance and will be adequately insured by
attendance to the essentials.

Smithsonian Report—The completion of the annual report for
1911 was long delayed at the Government Printing Office, awaiting
a supply of the quality of paper used in that publication. The
general appendix of the volume contained 36 articles of the usual
character. The report for 1912 was in type at the close of the fiscal
year. The popularity of this work continues unabated, the entire
edition each year becoming exhausted very soon after its publication.

National Museum publications—The publications by the Museum
during the year comprised two volumes of Proceedings, pamphlet
copies of 96 articles from the Proceedings, two Bulletins, and nine
parts of volumes of Contributions from the National Herbarium.
An interesting work in press at the close of the year, prepared by
Assistant Secretary Richard Rathbun, gives a descriptive account of
the building recently erected for the departments of natural history
of the United States National Museum. The book is illustrated with
34 plates and, besides a general description of the building, includes
special chapters relating to structural details and mechanical equip-
ment,

Zoological nomenclature.—Opinions 52 to 56 rendered by the In-
ternational Commission on Zoological Nomenclature were published
in the usual form. The Institution also continues to aid the work of
this commission by providing funds for clerical services in connec-
tion with the office of its secretary in this country.

Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology.—The publica-
tions issued by the Bureau of American Ethnology were the Twenty-
eighth Annual Report, containing papers on Casa Grande, the antiq-
uities of the upper Verde River and Walnut Creek Valleys, Ariz.,

44863°—sm 1913——2
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the linguistics of Algonquian tribes; also Bulletin 52 on early man
in South America, and Bulletin 54 on the physiography of the Rio
Grande Valley, New Mexico.

The Astrophysical Observatory had completed work on volume 3
of the Annals of the Observatory at the close of the year, and it was
expected that the distribution of the edition would take place soon
after July 1.

Reports of historical and patriotic societies —In accordance with
the national charters of the American Historical Association and the
National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, an-
nual reports of those organizations were submitted to the Institution
and communicated to Congress.

Allotments for printing.—The allotments to the Institution and its
branches, under the head of “ Public printing and binding,” during
the fiscal year, aggregating $74,900, were all utilized with the ex-
ception of small balances on work in progress at the close of the year.
The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1914, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding annual re-

ports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes_____________ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general ap-

pendixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins

and proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall

not exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not

more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to or ac-

quired by stheuNational Museum iibray22 23 es Se 37, 500
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American

Ethnology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau_ 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:

Imtermational exchanges) <iwreicsy ee Ae) eS ee ee eee 200

International catalogue of scientific literature____________________ 100

INA bONA 4 ZOOLO ST Cais Pe ress ha aes ee ee 200
Astrophysical Observatory (any unexpended balance of 1913 allot-

ment for volume 38 of Annals made available for fiscal year 1914) _ 200

For the annual report of the American Historical Association__________ 7, 000

PN ote ea PS a a ei Se ee ee a ee ee 76, 200

Committee on printing and publication—The advisory committee
on printing and publication under the Smithsonian Institution has
continued to examine manuscripts proposed for publication by the
branches of the Institution and has considered various questions
concerning public printing and binding. Twenty-two meetings of
the committee were held during the year and 138 manuscripts were
passed upon. The personnel of the committee as now organized is
as follows: Dr. Frederick W. True, Assistant Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, chairman; Mr. C. G. Abbot, Director of the Astro-
physical Observatory; Dr. Frank Baker, Superintendent of the
National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the Smith-
sonian Institution, secretary of the committee; Mr. F. W. Hodge,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

ethnologist in charge of the Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr.
George P. Merrill, head curator of geology, United States National
Museum; and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of biology,
United States National Museum.

Distribution of publications—On August 23, 1912, a law was
enacted requiring that all Government publications must, after Octo-
ber 1, be mailed from the Government Printing Office, mailing lists
or labels to be forwarded to the superintendent of documents for
that purpose. In accordance with the law, the Smithsonian Report
and publications of the United States National Museum and the
Bureau of American Ethnology have since been distributed direct
from the Government Printing Office. The accumulated stock of
publications, aggregating about 100,000 volumes and pamphlets from
which constant demands had been supplied, was also transferred to
the superintendent of documents during the month of September.

Catalogue of publications—There is in preparation, and nearly
ready for press, a complete list of publications of the Institution and
its branches. Partial lists have been issued from time to time but
no complete catalogue has been published. The present work will
contain about 12,000 titles, being practically a table of contents of
the entire series of Contributions to Knowledge, Miscellaneous Col-
lections and Annual Reports of the Institution, the Proceedings, Bul-
letins, and Annual Reports of the National Museum, the Annual
Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and
the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. The catalogue is so
arranged as to permit of ready reference to any desired subject or
the collective works of any author appearing in the several series.

LIBRARY.

During the year 12,930 volumes and parts of volumes, chiefly on
scientific topics, were added to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library
of Congress. The additions to the National Museum library num-
bered 4,062 volumes and pamphlets. Additions were also made to
the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, the Zoological Park,
the Bureau of American Ethnology, and other office libraries, includ-
ing the aeronautical library, which it is expected will be utilized
chiefly in connection with the work of the Langley Aerodynamical
Laboratory organized in May, 1913.

The appropriations for the next fiscal year provide an item of
$15,000 for beginning the construction of metal book stacks in the
main hall of the Smithsonian building to contain the library of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, a part of the National Museum
library, and certain other collections of books now stored in places
inconvenient for reference.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

In the new building of the National Museum four rooms on the
ground floor have been provided with steel book stacks and library
appliances of the latest design. To these rooms have been transferred
works needed in connection with natural history studies, while books
relating chiefly to the arts and industries and to American history are
retained in the older Museum building, where the collections of those
classes remain on exhibition.

ARCHIVES.

During the year some attention was given to improving conditions
in the archive room of the Institution, which was very badly over-
crowded. This room, on the fourth floor of the Smithsonian building,
was thoroughly overhauled and much accumulated material not re-
lating directly to the history of the Institution was removed to other
quarters. The set of Smithsonian publications formerly preserved
in this room was temporarily removed to the office of the assistant
secretary in charge of library and exchanges, thus making space for
manuscript material of importance. Two large wooden cases con-
taining papers relating to the internal affairs of the Institution and
its branches, together with other documents, were replaced by metal
eases containing drawers equipped with uniform cardboard recep-
tacles for papers, and alphabetical guide cards. It was not found
possible, however, to complete the transfer of the papers to these
receptacles during the year.

The wooden panels in the doors of the wall cases in the room were
removed and replaced by glass, so that it is possible to see.the con-
tents of the cases without opening them. A case was provided for
maps, plans, charts, and other large objects.

Cases were placed in an adjoining room for the reception of dupli-
cate vouchers and other financial papers of the several branches of the
Institution.

The large quantity of Schoolcraft papers at present in the custody
of the Institution were transferred to uniform file boxes and placed
on shelves. These papers are only partially classified.

The archives are now completely accessible, although a large
amount of work is still required to put them into thoroughly satis-
factory condition. The principal improvements needed are a com-
plete card catalogue of the several classes of papers contained in
the room, with indications of the location of each, and a uniform
card index of the contents of the bound volumes of official letters,
both originals and press copies. A reclassification of a considerable
portion of the other archives is also desirable, as well as the comple-
tion of the work of transferring papers to the new cases mentioned
above.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot
LANGLEY MEDAL.

In memory of the late Secretary Samuel Pierpont Langley and
his contributions to the science of aerodromics, the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution on December 15, 1908, established
the Langley medal, “to be awarded for specially meritorious inves-
tigations in connection with the science of aerodromics and its appli-
cation to aviation.” The first award of the medal was voted by the
Board of Regents on February 10, 1909, to Wilbur and Orville
Wright “ for advancing the science of aerodromics in its application
to aviation by their successful investigations and demonstrations
of the practicability of mechanical flight by man.” The medal was
presented to each of the brothers Wright at a meeting of the board on
February 10, 1910.

The second award of the medal was voted on February 13, 1913,
to Mr. Glenn H. Curtiss “ for advancing the art of aerodromics by
his successful development of a hydroaerodrome whereby the safety
of the aviator has been greatly enhanced,” and to Monsieur Gustave
Kiffel “ for advancing the science of aerodromics by his researches
relating to the resistance of the air in connection with aviation.”
The presentation of these medals was made on May 6, 1913. This
date was selected in order that the ceremonies incident to the presen-
tation might take place in connection with the observance of “ Lang-
ley Day,” which was established by the Aero Club of Washington in
1911, to commemorate the achievement by Mr. Langley on May 6,
1896, of mechanical flight by a heavier-than-air machine propelled
by its own power. On May 6, 1911, and again on May 6, 1912, there
were exhibition flights of biplanes and monoplanes near Washington.
On the afternoon of May 6, 1913, the celebration by the club occurred
at the Army War College immediately after the exercises in the
Smithsonian building, and consisted of a reception by the Aero Club,
followed by hydroaeroplane, biplane, and monoplane maneuvers.

The presentation exercises in the Smithsonian building preceded
the unveiling of the Langley memorial tablet and included addresses
by Dr. Alexander Graham Bell in presenting the medals, and accept-
ances by Ambassador Jusserand in behalf of M. Eiffel, and by Mr.
Glenn H. Curtiss.

In the course of his address M. Jusserand said:

We have seen France and America vie with each other not only in the con-
quest of better, greater, and safer liberty from year to year, but also in the
producing of more and more momentous inventions, improving the plane of life
of the many, reaching less faulty solutions of the great social problems.

Nothing more striking has taken place on these lines than in what concerns
the conquest of the air. It is surely appropriate to remember that one of the
very first flights ever attempted took place in Versailles, when one of the

earliest baloons rose a fortnight after the treaty definitely securing your inde-
pendence had been signed there in 1783. And you all know that Franklin, when
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

asked, What was the good of such an invention, answered, ‘‘ What is the good
of a new-born child?” The child has grown and is rapidly becoming a giant
in power. There is no branch of human activity in which France and America
have more truly vied with each other than this one, from the memorable day
of the Montgolfiére, so quickly perfected by the French physicist Charles, to
our own time.

Mr. Curtiss said in part:

As I look at the Langley models here, it becomes more evident to me than
ever before—the merit of these machines and the great work which Mr. Langley
did. We now know, as a result of M. Hiffel’s laboratory experiments, that
flying planes used by Prof. Langley had a great deal of efficiency, and it is also
generally known that the Langley machines, as he built them, had more in-
herent stability than the models which those of us who followed after Langley
used in our first flights. I can not say too much in fayor and in memory of
Prof. Langley.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

On May 6, 1913, the anniversary of the successful flight of the
Langley model aerodrome in 1896, the Langley memorial tablet to
commemorate the aeronautical work of the late Secretary Langley,
was unveiled in the Smithsonian building in the: presence of men
prominent in the development of aviation and a large company of
invited guests. The tablet was described in my last report. On the
oceasion of the unveiling of the tablet a memorial address was de-
livered by Dr. John A. Brashear, one of Prof. Langley’s oldest and
most cherished friends, and his warm supporter during his long in-
vestigations connected with the subject of aerial flight.

CONGRESSES AND CELEBRATIONS.

The Institution each year receives invitations to numerous scien-
tific congresses and celebrations in the United States and abroad, but
as funds are not available for the expenses of delegates, few of these
invitations can be agcepted. In some instances} however, it is pos-
sible to arrange for representation by collaborators of the Institution
who are visiting the localities, or by members of the scientific staff of
the Institution or its branches who are attending at their own expense.

Zoological Congress.—Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, Dr. Ch. Wardell
Stiles, and Dr. Herbert Haviland Field were designated to represent
the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum ahd were also
designated by the Department of State as delegates on the part of the
United States at the Ninth International Congress of Zoology at
Monaco, March 25 to 30, 1918.

Applied chemistry—The opening meeting of the Eighth Inter-
national Congress of Applied Chemistry was held in Washington on
September 4, 1912, with subsequent meetings in New York. Prof.
F. W. Clarke was designated to attend the congress as the representa-
tive of the Institution. The congress made the Secretary of the Insti-
tution one of its honorary vice presidents.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

Prehistoric anthropology.—Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka, Dr. Charles Pea-
body, and Dr. George Grant MacCurdy were designated to represent
the Smithsonian Institution and the United States at the Fourteenth
International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and Archeology
at Geneva, September 9 to 15, 1912.

Hygiene and demography.—tThe Fifteenth International Congress
on Hygiene and Demography was held in Washington from Sep-
tember 23 to 28, 1912, under the auspices of the Government of the
United States, President William Howard Taft serving as honor-
ary president. Your secretary was a member of the local committee
on organization, and Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the National Museum,
served on the interdepartmental committee on exhibits.

Archeological Congress—The Third International Congress on
Archeology was held at Rome, October 9 to 16, 1912. Upon the
nomination of the Smithsonian Institution the Department of State
designated Prof. A. L. Frothingham, of Princeton, Prof. George M.
Whicher, secretary of the New York Society of the Archeological
Institute of America, and Mr. William H. Buckler, president of the
Baltimore Society of the Archeological Institute of America, as dele-
gates on the part of the United States at that congress.

Historical studies—Prof. J. Franklin Jameson, of the American
Historical Association, was designated to act as the representative of
the Smithsonian Institution at the International Congress of His-
torical Studies held in London, April 3 to 8, 1913, under the auspices
of the British Academy in cooperation with British universities,
learned societies, and institutions. .

Geological Congress.—Y our secretary, as a member of the Twelfth
International Congress of Geology, arranged to be at Toronto Au-
gust 7 to 14, 1913, and wassappointed to represent the Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington and the Washington Academy at that congress.
Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology in the National Mu-
seum, was appointed a representative of the Smithsonian Institution.

Congress of Americdnists—Arrangements have been progressing
during the year in connection with the Nineteenth International
Congress of Americanists, which has been invited to meet in Wash-
ington in 1914, and Mr. W. H. Holmes, Mr. F. W. Hodge, and Dr.
AleS Hrdlitka have been appointed an auxiliary committee to rep-
resent the Smithsonian Institution in connection with, the prelimi-
nary details respecting the proposed meeting.

The State education building at Albany was dedicated October
16, 1912, on which occasion the secretary presented the formal con-
eratulations of the Smithsonian Institution, which is specially in-
terested in the city of Albany, for it was there that Joseph Henry,
first secretary of the institution, was born in the year 1799, and
there Henry began his researches and experiments in electricity
24. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

which in great measure made possible the wonderful electrical
achievements of the present day. ‘“ He married the intensity magnet
to the intensity battery, the quantity magnet to the quantity battery,
discovered the law by which their union was effected, and rendered
their divorce impossible.” The intensity magnet is that which is
to-day in use in every telegraph system. “ Henry’s oscillating ma-
chine was the forerunner of all our modern electrical motors. The
rotary motor of to-day is the direct outgrowth of his improvements
in magnets.”

National Academy of Sciences——The semicentennial meeting of
the National Academy of Sciences was held at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution April 22 to 24, 1913. The exercises included an address of
welcome by Dr. Ira Remsen, president of the academy, and addresses
on “The Relation of Science to the Higher Education in America,”
by President Arthur T. Hadley, of Yale University; “ International
Cooperation in Research,” by Dr. Arthur Schuster, of London; “The
Earth and Sun as Magnets,” by Dr. George E. Hale, of the Mount
Wilson Solar Observatory; and “The Structure of the Universe,”
by J. C. Kapteyn, of Groningen. At the White House, President
Woodrow Wilson and Dr. R. S. Woodward participated in the cere-
mony of the presentation of medals awarded by the academy. The
Watson medal was awarded to Prof. J. C. Kapteyn, the Draper
medal to M. Henri Deslandres, the Agassiz medal to Dr. Johan Hort,
and the Comstock prize to Prof. R. A. Millikan. There were vari-
ous social functions in connection with the meeting, including an
evening reception in the natural history building of the National
Museum. On the occasion of the meeting of the academy there was
published “A History of the First Half Century of the National
Academy of Sciences, 1869-1918,” prepared and edited by Dr. Fred-
erick W. True, assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Imperial Russian Museum.—On the occasion of the fiftieth jubilee
of the Imperial Moscow and Rumiantsef Museum your secretary
was elected an honorary member of that institution.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL BUILDING.

In the public buildings bill approved by the President on March 4,
1913, permission was granted to the George Washington Memorial
Association to erect a building on the square formerly occupied by
the Pennsylvania railway station in Washington. The preamble of
the original bill (S. 5494), as passed by the Senate April 15, 1912,
defined the objects of the Memorial Building as follows:

To provide a site for the erection of a building to be known as the George Wash-
ington Memorial Building, to serve as the gathering place and headquarters

of patriotic, scientific, medical, and other organizations interested in promot-
ing the welfare of the American people.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

Whereas George Washington, on July ninth, seventeen hundred and ninety-nine,
said: “It has been my ardent wish to see a plan devised on a liberal scale
which would spread systematic ideas through all parts of this rising Empire,”
and it was Washington’s wish to materially assist in the development of his
beloved country through the promotion of science, literature, and art, and
with the firm conviction that “ knowledge is the surest basis of public happi-
ness”; and

Whereas the changing conditions that time has brought require new methods of
accomplishing the results desired by Washington and now a necessity of the
American people; and

Whereas at the present time there is not any suitable building in the city of
Washington where large conventions or in which large public functions can
be heid, or where the permanent headquarters and records of national organi-
zations can be administered; and

Whereas a building should be provided in which there shall be a large audi-
torium, halls of different sizes where all societies pertaining to the growth of
our best interests can meet, and such as it is deemed desirable may have per-
manent headquarters; and

Whereas the George Washington Memorial Association is now engaged in ob-
taining funds for the erection and endowment of a building suitable for the
purposes above set forth, to be known as the George Washington Memorial
Building: Therefore * * *

The law as passed by Congress and approved by the President
March 4, 1913, was as follows:

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled:

* * So * * * *

Src. 10. That a building is hereby authorized to be erected in the District of
Columbia, to be known as the George Washington Memorial Building.

The control and administration of said building, when erected, shall be in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

The George Washington Memorial Association is authorized to erect said
building in accordance with plans to be procured by said association and to be
approved by the Commission of Fine Arts, said building to be fireproof, faced
with granite, and to cost not less than $2,000,000; it shall have an auditorium
that will seat not less than six thousand people, and such other smaller halls,
reception rooms, office rooms, and so forth, as may be deemed necessary to
carry out the purposes for which the building is erected. And the said George
Washington Memorial Association shall in addition provide a permanent endow-
ment fund of not less than $500,000, to be administered by the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, the income from which shall, as far as necessary,
be used for the maintenance of the said building.

Permission is granted the George Washington Memorial Association to erect
said building in the north end of the reservation known as Armory Square,
bounded by Sixth and Seventh Streets west and B Street north and B Street
south. The south front of said building is to be on a line with the south front
of the new National Museum Building, in the north end of the Smithsonian
Park; and the said land is hereby set apart for that purpose: Provided, That
the actual construction of said building shall not be undertaken until the sum
of $1,000,000 shall have been subscribed and paid into the treasury of the George
Washington Memorial Association: And provided further, That the erection of
said George Washington Memorial Building be begun within a period of two
years from and after the passage of this act, and this section shall be null and

~
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

void should the George Washington Memorial Association fail to comply with
the provisions thereof which are conditions precedent to the authorization herein
granted. :

Said building may, among other purposes, be used for inaugural receptions
and special public meetings authorized by Congress.

Congress may alter, amend, add to, or repeal any of the provisions of this
section.

The need in Washington of such a structure as here authorized has
been urged on many occasions in public meetings throughout the
country. The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have.expressed
their willingness to administer it when completed. It will be a gath-
ing place and headquarters for patriotic, scientific, medical, and other
organizations interested in promoting the welfare of the American
people and the development of the country in science, literature,
and art. ;

Plans for the building are being made, and it is hoped that the
work of construction will begin within the time limit set by the law.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The operations of the National Museum are discussed with such
detail by Assistant Secretary Rathbun in the appendix to the present
report that I need here refer only to some of the more important
features of the year.

The completion of the natural history building, with its spacious
well-lighted halls, has made it feasible to vastly improve the extensive
exhibits of the departments of anthropology, biology, and geology
installed therein; while objects pertaining to the industrial arts and
to American history are now given ample exhibition room in the
older building.

Tn the zoological halls of the new building are exhibited a number
of groups of animals which are noteworthy examples of the art of
taxidermy, some of these groups being made up of specimens received
from the Smithsonian African expedition under Col. Roosevelt.
And likewise in the halls devoted to anthropological exhibits are
shown a number of racial groups of mankind, including several
representing Indians of various tribes engaged in their native games
and mechanical occupations, which seem particularly attractive to
visitors.

The department of arts and industries for many years had been
checked in its development by what seemed to.be the more urgent
demand for space for natural history exhibits. Many large and
interesting collections illustrative of the industrial arts, acquired
by the Museum during the last 30 years, had therefore necessarily
been held in storage, but the transfer of objects of natural history
to the new building has now released large halls for the installation
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4

of instructive collections pertaining to art textiles, silk, wool, and
cotton manufactures, to arms and armor, ceramics, mineral tech-
nology, and to some other general manufacturing industries, in-
cluding an exposition of the processes and of the raw materials and
finished products.

The responses received from requests for objects desired to com-
plete particular series in this department are very gratifying and
indicate a public interest in its still broader development. The
educational character of these exhibits, and, in fact, of all objects
displayed in the National Museum, is kept constantly in mind.
Thus, a small number of specimens or objects well arranged is found
to be far better than a large display where the educational feature
is overshadowed by what may be termed a picturesque method of
installation. The style of cases, the color of the background, and
many other details must be carefully studied and worked out with
a view to proper harmony in every respect.

There has been added to the Museum collections an approximate
total of 302,133 specimens and objects, as compared with 238,000
during the year preceding. The accessions included 140,015 botani-
eal, 113,509 zoological, and 14,716 paleontological specimens, besides
a number of paintings, art textiles, useful plant products, and objects
illustrative of American history.

In geographical range the accessions covered practically the
entire world, ethnological, archeological, biological, and geological
objects being received from all parts of North and South America,
from Alaska, Siberia, China, Oceanica, Dutch East Indies, Africa,
and other lands, the results in large measure of explorations under-
taken by the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum either
directly or in cooperation with private individuals or Government
departments. Among individuals who have thus served the Museum
during the year, some of whom I have already mentioned, were Mr.
Childs Frick, who made collections, especially of birds, in Africa;
Dr. Theodore Lyman, who hunted animals in the Altai Mountains in
Asia; Dr. W. L. Abbott, who continued his collecting work in Kash-
mir and generously provided for field work in Borneo; Mr. D. D.
Streeter, jr., who explored the interior of Borneo; Mr. George Mix-
ter, who visited Lake Baikal in Siberia; and Mr. Copley Amory, jr.,
who made collections of mammals and of fossil species in Alaska.

One of the interesting additions to the mammal division was a
mounted specimen and skeleton of the rare okapi of Africa. Sev-
eral noteworthy collections of fossil invertebrates were also received,
and among accessions of vertebrate remains were a large series of
mammals from the Fort Union beds of Montana, and many genera
and species from recently uncovered Pleistocene cave deposits in
Maryland; also a series of bones from the Yukon territory containing
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the first evidence of the former extension of the range of the camel
beyond the Arctic Circle.

The most important permanent addition to the division of history
was the gift by Mr. Eben Appleton of the “ Star Spangled Banner,”
which he had allowed to be exhibited as a loan since 1907. This great
flag, about 30 feet square, is the one that waved over Fort McHenry
in September, 1814, and inspired Francis Scott Key to write the
national anthem.

The division of physical anthropology has received several large
and valuable accessions of skeletal remains during recent years, one
of the most important recent additions being obtained in Mongolia,
where the curator was engaged in studies to discover the probable
origin of the American Indians.

The National Gallery of Art was enriched by the gift of 12 paint-
ings, 7 of them presented by Mr. William T. Evans, and by 18 paint-
ings and 2 marble sculptures received as loans from friends of the
Gallery. é

It has been the custom for many years to distribute to schools and
colleges for teaching purposes, or to exchange with other institu-
tions, such duplicate natural history specimens as are no longer
needed for scientific study by the Museum staff. During the past
year about 30,000 specimens were thus utilized for educational pur-
poses or to secure new material for the Museum.

The number of visitors to the new building during the year was
961,636 on week days and 58,170 on Sundays, the largest attendance
being 13,236 on March 5, the day following the inauguration of the
President.

The publications issued by the Museum included about 100 papers
from the Proceedings and a number of Contributions from the
National Herbarium, besides two completed volumes of Proceedings
and two Bulletins. The total distribution of earlier and current
publications was 71,600 copies.

Mention is made on another page of the fitting up of rooms in the
new building for the accommodation of such portions of the Mu-
seum library as pertain chiefly to natural history subjects, books on
other topics being retained in the older buildings. The total con-
tents of the library at the close of the year was 43,692 volumes and
72,042 papers of all kinds.

Meetings of various scientific organizations were held in the Mu-
seum auditorium and adjacent rooms, and there were several formal
receptions which* are noted in the report of the assistant secretary.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnological researches have been continued in accordance with
law, among the American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, includ-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

ing the excavation and preservation of archeological remains. The
systematic researches carried on by eight ethnologists of the regular
staff and by specialists not officially connected with the bureau
covered a wide range of field work and office studies, which are
described in such detail in the appendix by the ethnologist-in-charge,
that I need here to review but briefly some of the most important
activities of the year. For the preparation of a memoir on The
Culture History of the Aborigines of the Lesser Antilles, Dr. Fewkes
visited Trinidad, Barbados, St. Vincent, and other islands of the
West Indies, where he made extensive excavations of shell-heaps,
particularly in Trinidad and St. Vincent, yielding very interesting
collections of pottery and other objects, and carried on archeologic
studies which proved to be especially important in throwing lght
on the material culture of the former aborigines of the coast adjacent
to South America.

Studies were continued in the itivestigation of Indian population,
a research covering the whole period from the first occupancy of the
country by white peoplé to the present time, and including the entire
territory from the Rio Grande to the Arctic Ocean. A monograph
in preparation on this subject includes chapters on notable epidemics,
vital statistics, and race admixture.

Further interesting studies were made in New Mexico in prepara-
tion of a memoir on the philosophy, anthropic worship and ritual,
zoic worship, social customs, material culture, and history of that
interesting and conservative Pueblo people known as the Tewa
Indians.

A large amount of additional material was also obtained concern-
ing the languages, myths, and legends of the Fox Indians and other
Algonquian tribes, and on the ceremonies and rituals of the Osage
and Pawnee Indians.

Progress has been made in the preparation of the Handbook of
American Indian Languages and the Handbook of American Arche-
ology. There is also in preparation a Handbook of Aboriginal Re-
mains East of the Mississippi.

Some of the results of investigations conducted by the bureau in
cooperation with the School of American Archeology are described
in three memoirs, now published or ready for publication, on The
Physiography of the Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, in Relation
to Pueblo Culture, The Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians, and
the Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians, and there is also in process
of completion in this connection a manuscript entitled “ An Intro-
duction to the Study of the Maya Hieroglyphs.”

The Handbook of American Indians, completed by the bureau
a few years ago, has increased the popular interest in our aborigines
to such an extent that the bureau is considering the feasibility of
issuing a series of treatises devoted to the Indians of the respective
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

States, and as a beginning for such a series there is in preparation a
Handbook of the Indians of California.

Among the publications issued during the year may be mentioned
the Twenty-eighth Annual Report; a reprint of the Handbook of
American Indians North of Mexico, ordered by resolution of Con-
gress; a bulletin on Early Man in South America; portions of Part
2 of the Handbook of American Indian Languages; and a bulletin on
Chippewa Music.

The scope of the work undertaken by the bureau is necessarily
limited by the funds available. Among investigations that are
specially desirable to extend may be mentioned the exploration and
preservation of antiquities, including the cliff dwellings in the arid
region; ethnological researches in Alaska; the extension of ethnologi-
cal investigations among the tribes of the Mississippi drainage; and
excavation and study of archeological remains in the South and West.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The work of the International Exchange Service shows a steady
gain from year to year. During the last 15 years the weight of
matter handled has increased from 317,883 pounds in 1898 to 593,969
pounds in 1918, and the total number of packages has increased dur-
ing that period from 84,208 in 1898 to 338,621 in 1913. As compared
with the year 1908, 66 per cent more packages were handled in 1913
and 678 more boxes were dispatched, but by practicing various econ-
omies and improving methods the increased work has been accom-
plished without an increase in the annual appropriation.

In addition to the international exchange of publications between
Governments and institutions of learning, the service has from time
to time been called upon by foreign Governments and societies to se-
cure information on particular subjects. To answer such inquiries
has sometimes required much correspondence. Thus, in a recent in-
stance, the minister of public works and mines in a distant country
sought information through the Department of State on laws and
regulations with respect to the boring, mining, and storage of petro-
leum in the United States, a class of data which the Smithsonian In-
stitution was able to obtain only by writing to the principal States
concerned in that industry.

In order to simplify the shipment of exchanges to the Union of
South Africa arrangements have been made whereby packages are
now shipped in bulk to the Government Printing Works at Pretoria
for distribution -instead of being sent to miscellaneous addresses in
the various provinces of the Union. This method will effect a saving
to the Institution in freight charges and improve the service with
South Africa. A similar method would be very advantageous with
the Commonwealth of Australia and is now under consideration by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

the Australian House of Representatives and the chairman of the
library committee of that country.

In Egypt there has been organized the Government publications
department at Cairo, to which consignments for distribution there
are now being forwarded. In Mexico a service of exchanges has been
established in the department of public works.

Full sets or partial sets of United States official documents are now
sent to 92 foreign depositories, the Province of Bombay, the Cor-
poration of Glasgow, Finland, British Guiana, the Free City of
Lubeck, and the Province of Madras having been added to the list
during the year. There has also been carried on since 1909, through
the Exchange Service, an interparliamentary exchange of official
journals with legislative chambers agreeing thereto, 100 copies of
the daily issue of the Congressional Record being provided for that
purpose. Thirty-two countries have so far agreed to this exchange
of their official journals.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The National Zoological Park was established by act of Congress
in 1890 “for the advancement of science and the instruction and
recreation of the people.” It was the outgrowth of a small collec-
tion of living animals which for several years had been assembled
in low sheds and small paddocks adjacent to the Smithsonian build-
ing, where they were kept primarily for scientific study, though they
were likewise a constant source of interest to the public. There was
at once a rapid increase in the size of this collection when the ani-
mals were removed to the spacious grounds provided for them in the
beautiful Rock Creek Valley, and it is evident from its increasing
popularity during the last 23 years that the establishment of this
great zoological park has been regarded as a wise investment of
public funds.

The popular interest in the park has continued to be very great.
On Sundays and holidays the walks and buildings are crowded.
During the past year the number of visitors was 633,526, and the
daily average in the month of March, 1913, was 3,900. One hundred
and forty-two classes, schools, etc, numbering 5,579 pupils, visited
the park during the year with the definite purpose of studying the
animals.

The interests of science have also been primary objects of atten-
tion in the administration of the park. A number of species of
American animals which were rapidly becoming extinct are here pre-
served in appropriate natural surroundings. In a recent report I
called attention to a much needed improvement that should be made
in the erection and equipment of a laboratory and hospital in the park
Spe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

whereby the welfare of the animals could be more thoroughly
guarded, and where investigations of a zoological nature could be
prosecuted for the increase of practical and scientific knowledge.

The number of animals of all kinds in the park collections on
June 30, 1913, was 1,468, representing 154 species of mammals, 202
species of birds, and 31 species of reptiles, which are enumerated in
detail on another page in the report of the superintendent. The im-
portant additions during the year included a pair of young African
elephants, three dromedaries, a pair of cheetahs, several species of
gazelles, and other animals from the Government Zoological Garden
at Giza, Egypt; 7 ostriches from southern California; and 2 moose,
a male and a female, from the Rocky Mountains National Park in
Alberta.

Among the improvements completed in the park during the year
was an outdoor parrot cage constructed through the generosity of
Mr. John B. Henderson, jr., one of the regents of the Institution. An
inclosure was also built for the ostriches recently received and one
for the wood ducks and related species. Mention should also be made
of the erection of a stone building, 24 by 40 feet, equipped for the -
cooking of food for the animals by boiling or baking, and also for
cold storage. The building is abundantly lighted and thoroughly
sanitary, and is a great improvement over the inadequate quarters
heretofore used for food preparation.

An appropriation of $20,000 was included in the sundry civil act
for 1913 for the construction of a stone-faced or bowlder bridge
across Rock Creek to replace the log bridge erected in 1896 on the
line of the roadway from Adams Mill Road. A contract for the
construction of the new bridge was entered into on May 29, 1913,
and work was begun soon after the close of the fiscal year. The
bridge will be 80 feet in span and about 40 feet wide. It will be built
of reenforced concrete faced with rough blocks of the blue gneiss
found in this region, the stone for the concrete being obtained in the
park.

In the sundry civil act for the fiscal year 1914 provision is made for
the purchase of about 103 acres of land to extend the west boundary
of the park to Connecticut Avenue. The acquisition of this land has
been urged for several years as a much-needed addition to the area of
the Zoological Park.

THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The Astrophysical Observatory continued during the past year
the important investigations begun during the administration of the
late Secretary Langley to determine the solar constant of radiation
and the variability of the sun. In his account of the operations of
the observatory on another page of this report Director Abbot dis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ao

cusses the results of these researches up to the present time and con-
cludes that the observations at Bassour, Algeria, taken in connection
with those made simultaneously at Mount Wilson, Cal., have estab-
lished the variability of the sun. He concludes also that a variability
connected with the sun-spot cycle has been shown.

Observations were also made to determine the effects of volcanic
eruptions on climate. Soon after the eruption of Mount Katmai,
Alaska, in June, 1912, the presence of dust in the upper air from this
voleano was indicated both in California and in Algeria, and in
August the direct radiation of the sun was found to be reduced about
20 per cent by the interposition of the dust cloud. Mr. Abbot and
Mr. Fowle discuss the results of their observations and the general
subject of “ Volcanoes and Climate” in a paper in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections. They conclude that a combination of
the effects of sun spots and volcanic haze accounts for all the prin-
cipal irregularities in the temperature of the earth for the last 30
years.

In connection with observations on nocturnal radiation it became
necessary to determine the temperature and humidity prevailing
above certain stations. This was accomplished with the cooperation
of the United States Weather Bureau through the use of sounding
balloons and captive balloons carrying to high altitudes self-record-
ing apparatus for measuring the temperature, pressure, and
humidity of the air.

There was completed during the year volume III of the Annals
of the Astrophysical Observatory, recording the work accomplished
from 1907 to 1913.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

There is administered by the Smithsonian Institution through a
small annual appropriation by Congress, the United States Bureau
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. This is
one of the 33 regional bureaus whose function it is to collect, index,
and classify all scientific publications of the year in each country and
to send the classified references to the central bureau in London,
where, since 1901, they have been collated and published in a series
of 17 annual volumes which form an index to current scientific
literature.

The catalogue is not of a commercial character, but by economical
methods of administration, and partly through the revenue obtained
from subscriptions to the series of volumes, it is hoped that the
enterprise will be self-supporting with the exception of the general
expenses of the regional bureaus in gathering the data.

44863°—sM 1913——3
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The United States bureau sent to the central bureau during the
past year 27,995 cards, making a total of 290,330 cards forwarded
from this country since the work was begun in 1901. The total num-
ber of classified citations received at the central bureau in London
from 1901 to 1913 was about 2,500,000.

Although the congressional appropriation for the bureau is in-
tended primarily for maintaining a purely scientific international
enterprise, yet, without added expense, the bureau is of value to the
public as a source of general information on many scientific subjects.
The Smithsonian Institution is in constant receipt of requests for in-
formation on a very great variety of topics, and since it is the pur-
pose of the International Catalogue to collect and classify the pub-
lished results of scientific investigation many of these inquiries. are
referred for reply to this bureau.

NECROLOGY.

JAMES SCHOOLCRAFT SHERMAN.

At the annual meeting of the Regents on December 12, 1912, the
following resolutions were adopted to the memory of Vice President
Sherman:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have received the
sad intelligence of the death on October 30, 1912, of James Schoolcraft Sher-
man, Vice President of the United States and Chancellor of the Institution,,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That in the passing away of this distinguished official the country

bas lost a man whose unsullied public career and blameless private life marked.

him as one of the best exemplars of the highest type of American patriotism

and citizenship; while this Institution has been deprived of the association of a

Regent and presiding officer whose loyalty to its purposes and zeal in its interests

have been an inspiration to his colleagues.

Resolved, That we tender to the family of Mr. Sherman our respectful and
sincere sympathy in their great bereavement,

Resolved, That an engrossed copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the
family of the late chancellor.

James Schoolcraft Sherman, LL.D., born in Utica, N. Y., October
24, 1855, became a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution upon taking
the oath of office as Vice President of the United States on March 4,
1909, and was elected Chancellor of the Institution on December 8,
1910, as successor to Chancellor Melville Weston Fuller, Chief Justice
of the United States, who died July 4, 1910. Mr. Sherman received
the degree of LL.B. from Hamilton College in 1878 and LL.D. in
1903. He was admitted to the bar in 1880 and practiced his profes-
sion at Utica; was mayor of Utica, 1884-85; Member of Congress,
1887 to 1891 and 1893 to 1909, and was elected Vice President Novem-
ber 3, 1908. He had been trustee of Hamilton College since 1905,
and held important positions of trust in his native city.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

JOHN BROOKS HENDERSON.

At a special meeting of the Regents on May 1, 1913, a resolution
was adopted in memory of the Hon. John B. Henderson, who served
as a Regent from January 26, 1892, to March 1, 1911, when he felt
obliged to retire from active duties on account of failing health. His
sound judgment and wise counsel as chairman of the executive com-
mittee and as member of the permanent committee had been of great
assistance to the board throughout his long term of service. Mr.
Henderson was born near Danville, Va., on November 26, 1826, and
died at Takoma Park, District of Columbia, on April 12, 1918. He
was United States Senator from Missouri from 1862 to 1869, and
filled many other honorable positions during earlier and later periods
of his life. He had been a resident of Washington City since 1890.

Respectfully submitted.

Cartes D. Watcort, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1913:

IMPORTANT MATTERS OF THE YEAR.

Although many important matters developed, as usual, in con-
nection with the operations of the Museum during last year, those
of chief general interest related to the exhibition collections in the
new building and to the progress of work in the department of arts
and industries. As explained in the last report, only the first and
second stories of the new building, with an aggregate floor area of
185,294 square feet, are being utilized at present for the permanent
installations, which, with a single exception, relate wholly to natural
history. The last of this space was opened to the public during
April, 1913, but to a certain extent the exhibits still remain incom-
plete and the arrangements provisional. The plan of three wings
particularly adapts this building to the three departments of anthro-
pology, biology, and geology, representing the organization of the
natural history collections, each of which has been allotted an entire
wing for its exhibition series, the overflow from each being continued
into the adjacent ranges.

Of the several branches which are administered in the department
of anthropology, three have been established in the new building as
constituting what is now commonly recognized in museum classifica-
tion as one of the great divisions of natural history. They are
physical anthropology, ethnology, and archeology. Physical anthro-
pology is not yet represented in the public halls, though an important
installation of a technical character has been provided in the labora-
tory. Each of the other subjects, however, has been extensively illus-
trated on a popular though none the less instructive basis, to which
purpose a total floor area of 65,941 square feet has been assigned.
Ethnology occupies the entire available space allotted to the depart-
ment in the first story, namely, the northern section of both ranges,
and all parts of the north wing surrounding the picture gallery,
which is temporary in its location here. The total area covered is
35,474 square feet. The arrangement is geographical, and the ex-

36
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. St

hibits find their key in family groups placed centrally in the halls.
The archeological collections are displayed in the second story, the
Old World series, both historic and prehistoric, occupying the eastern
side and northern end of the wing to the extent of about 7,927 square
feet, and the New World series the eastern side of the wing and
the entire east range, with a floor area of 22,540 square feet. The
exhibition of North American archeology is especially full and
important.

The classification of the biological exhibits, at present restricted
to zoology, comprises five principal and several minor subdivisions,
of which the most extensive consists of a comprehensive representa-
tion of all the main groups of animals, each arranged faunally.
Next follow a systematic series, a series illustrating comparative
anatomy and osteology which is practically subsidiary to it, a series
of domestic animals, and a faunal series for the District of Columbia.
These are supplemented by a number of special exhibits illustrating
interesting phases in zoology and noteworthy features of the collec-
tion. The entire amount of space assigned to the department is
64,398 square feet, of which the faunally arranged exhibit utilizes
41,058 square feet. The mammals in this collection occupy the first
floor of the west wing, with the exception of a small area in which
the series of birds begins, the latter extending thence through the
western section of the west range; while the reptiles, batrachians,
fishes, and invertebrates are installed in the second story of the wing.
On the northern side of the wing is the collection of comparative
anatomy and osteology, followed successively in the west range by
the systematic series, the domestic animals, and the faunal exhibit
of the District of Columbia, the special exhibits being provided for
in alcoves on the court side of the range.

The geological exhibits are classified under four subjects, namely,
systematic or physical and chemical geology, applied geology, min-
eralogy and paleontology. Besides the east wing, of which they have
entire possession, they occupy only the eastern section of the adjoin-
ing range in the first story, the combined area amounting to 47,691
square feet. Systematic geology is displayed in the range, while
applied geology, including the most complete series of building and
ornamental stones in the country, and mineralogy, with the begin-
nings of an excellent representation of gems and precious stones,
are accommodated in the second story of the wing. In the lower
story, which is wholly devoted to paleontology, the fossil vertebrates,
with many skillfully prepared remains of extinct animals and several
large and striking skeletons, occupy the large sky-lighted hall and
eastern end of the wing, the fossil invertebrates the southern side of
the wing, and the fossil plants the northern side.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

In the matter of reorganizing the several industrial collections
which were long ago displaced through the overcrowding of the
older buildings in which they are now being rearranged, excellent
progress was made despite the limited means available. The division
of mineral technology, which had been nominally recognized for
several years and for which a large amount of valuable material
has been held in storage, was actively established, but not until late
in the year. In the division of textiles, in which the work was
started over a year earlier, the results accomplished have been suffi-
cient to very materially attract public notice. The old collection,
including also certain animal and vegetable products, was first un-
packed, and, although much of it had so greatly deteriorated as to
be rendered useless, there fFemained an excellent nucleus to build
upon, the material being chiefly serviceable for its bearing, on the
history and development of the subjects represented. It was exten-
sively drawn upon in preparing a preliminary exhibition series,
which was practically completed before the close of the fiscal year
1912. During last year there was marked activity in the acquisition
of new material, in the extension of the exhibition collections, and
in the general work of the division. Many of the leading manu-
tacturers were advised with, and their cordial approval of the plans
and the substantial support they have already given the Museum
insures beyond question the building up of a thoroughly practical
representation of the textile and allied industries. The accessions of
the year covered a wide range of materials and manufacture, and
included raw materials, intermediate stages, and finished products,
as well as illustrations of various processes. They were almost
wholly from American sources, among the exceptions being an in-
structive exhibit of the woolen industry of Bradford, England, and
another of native Filipino handicraft in the making of mats, baskets,
hats, fabrics, and other useful articles. In lines other than textiles
the additions related mainly to the utilization of rubber, and included
many testimonials to Charles Goodyear, whose name is indissolubly
connected with the origin and early advancement of this important
industry. The installation of textiles kept pace with the receipt of
materials, and by the close of the year a very notable and attractive
exhibition had been assembled, mainly in the south hall of the older
building.

COLLECTIONS.

The total number of specimens acquired during the year was ap-
proximately 302,182, of which 26,999 pertained to the several sub-
jects covered by the department of anthropology; 113,509 were
zoological, 140,015 botanical, 5,569 geological, and 14,716 paleonto-
logical; while 12 were paintings for the National Gallery of Art, and
1,312 were textiles and useful plant products for the department of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

arts and industries. Several important loans for exhibition, consist-
ing mainly of historical and ethnological objects and paintings, were
also received.

The additions in ethnology came mainly from the Philippine
Islands and other parts of the Far East, from Paraguay and Dutch
Guiana, and from the middle and western United States. Maine,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and Kentucky were chiefly rep-
resented in the contributions to prehistoric archeology, while Egyp-
tian and Greco-Roman antiquities and small lots of materials from
various European localities composed the principal acquisitions in
historic archeology. The division of physical anthropology received
valuable accessions, mainly of skeletal remains, from many sources,
the most noteworthy consisting of a large collection made by the
curator in Mongolia. In the division of mechanical technology the
most extensive additions were to the section of firearms and other
weapons, and included several early and rare pieces; while in the
division of graphic arts they were illustrative of recent methods of
pictorial reproduction. Most prominently to be noted in connection
with the division of history was the gift by Mr. Eben Appleton of
“The Star Spangled Banner,” which had been exhibited as a loan
since 1907. This witness of the gallant defense of Fort McHenry
during its unsuccessful bombardment by the British fleet on Sep-
tember 13 and 14, 1814, immortalized by the stirring verses of Francis
Scott Key, has been accorded a conspicuous place of honor in the
principal hall of history. Among other notable acquisitions were
memorials of the Washburn family and of Generals U. S. Grant and
Frederick D. Grant; a bronze cannon, with its wooden carriage,
brought to America by General Lafayette and used in the Revolution ;
over 21,000 postage stamps and postal cards, added to the large collec-
tion from the Post Office Department; the 7%¢anic memorial gold
medal issued by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission; and, as a
loan, the collection of historical china assembled by the late Rear
Admiral F. W. Dickins, United States Navy, consisting of about 500
pieces, and including a large number of fine examples of presidential
china from the administration of Washington to that of Benjamin
Harrison.

For some of its most important acquisitions the department of
biology was indebted to several expeditions to distant regions, con-
ducted at private expense. The most extensive of these, undertaken by
Mr. Childs Frick, who was accompanied by Dr. E. A. Mearns, United
States Army (retired), and others, visited Abyssinia and British
East Africa, and was absent from January to September, 1912. —
The birds obtained, numbering over 5,000, have been deposited in
the Museum. On a hunting trip to the region of the Altai Moun-
tains, in Asia, Dr. Theodore Lyman, of Harvard University, with
40 ' ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the assistance of Mr. N. Hollister, of the Museum staff, secured about
650 specimens of mammals and birds, which have been shared be-
tween the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the National Mu-
seum. Dr. W. L. Abbott, who continued his collecting work in
Kashmir, also maintained a naturalist in Borneo to extend the field
work which he had so effectively carried on for several years. From
the former region a large number of small mammals were received
during the year, and from the latter many specimens of mammals,
birds, and reptiles. Mr. Arthur de C. Sowerby transmitted mam-
mals and reptiles from China; Mr. D. D. Streeter, jr., collected
mammals and reptiles in Borneo; Mr. George Mixter visited Lake
Baikal, Siberia, and its vicinity, securing specimens of the native
bear, of the seal peculiar to the lake, and of a number of small
mammals; and Mr. Copley Amory, jr., joining a Coast Survey party
in Alaska, obtained many mammals, including several caribou and
an interesting series of bones of fossil species. Mr. A. C. Bent in
the course of investigations in Newfoundland and Labrador made
collections of birds, and Dr. Paul Bartsch and Dr. T. Wayland
Vaughan, as guests on the Carnegie steamer Anton Dohrn, collected
marine invertebrates among the Florida Keys, as did also Mr. John
B. Henderson, jr., by means of dredgings from his yacht Holts. Mr.
Paul G. Russell, of the division of plants, who accompanied an ex-
pedition of the Carnegie Institution to the West Indies, secured for
the Museum several thousand botanical specimens.

The division of mammals was fortunate in obtaining an excep-
tionally fine mounted specimen and skeleton of the rare okapi from
the Kongo region of Africa. The principal accessions of fishes and
marine invertebrates were from explorations by the Bureau of Fish-
eries in various parts of the Pacific Ocean, consisting mainly of col-
lections that had been studied and described. Among fishes were
the types of 110 new species, while the marine invertebrates included
extensive series of crustaceans and echinoderms, besides ascidians
and plankton material from the Atlantic coast. Mollusks were re-
ceived from various localities in North America and from the Ba-
hama Islands, Venezuela, South Australia, and the Dutch East
Indies. Of insects over 37,000 specimens were acquired, including
15,000 forest insects from West Virginia, valuable material from
India and Great Britain, and about 10,000 well-prepared beetles
from the District of Columbia, which are intended to be used in
connection with the exhibition series of the local fauna. The division
of plants was enriched to the extent of 140,000 specimens. The prin-
cipal addition consisted of some 80,000 specimens of grasses, trans-
' ferred by the Department of Agriculture, which, with 12,800 speci-
mens purchased during the year and the material previously in the
herbarium, places the Museum in possession of the largest and most
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

comprehensive collection of grasses in this country. Other impor-
tant accessions were the Wooton collection of 10,000 plants mostly
from New Mexico, about 10,000 West Indian plants, a valuable series
from British Guiana, and the C. Henry Kain collection of diatoms,
one of the finest in the world, and supposed to be the largest in the
United States.

The more important additions to the department of geology were
illustrative of published results of investigations by the Geological
Survey, comprising rocks, ores, and minerals from some of the
Western States, and fossils from the middle Devonian of New
York, the early Devonian and Silurian of Maine, and the Ordovician
of Tennessee. Other noteworthy collections of fossil invertebrates
received were from the Silurian and Devonian of the Detroit River
region, the Silurian of Ohio, and the Tertiary of the Panama Canal
Zone, while of vertebrate remains the accessions included a large
series of mammals from the Fort Union beds of Montana, many
genera and species from recently uncovered Pleistocene cave deposits
in Maryland, and a small but interesting series of bones from the
Yukon territory containing the first evidence of the former extension
of the range of the camel on this continent beyond the Arctic Circle.
The Geological Survey transmitted a large collection of Cretaceous
and Tertiary plants from Colorado and New Mexico, containing 271
type and illustrated specimens. Large collections of Cambrian fos-
sils were made by Secretary Walcott in British Columbia and Alberta
in connection with his geological work in the Canadian Rockies.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The permanent additions to the Gallery consisted of 12 paintings,
10 of which were gifts and 2 bequests. Of the former, 7 were re-
ceived from Mr. William T. Evans as contributions to his notable
collection of the work of contemporary American painters and are
as follows: “'The Meadow Brook,” by Charles Paul Gruppe; “ The
Mourning Brave,’ by Edwin W. Deming; “The Fur Muff,” by
Robert David Gauley; “ Water Lilies,” by Walter Shirlaw; “ Castle
Creek Canyon, South Dakota,” by Frank De Haven; and “ Christ
before Pilate” and “Suffer the Little Children to Come unto Me,”
by Otto W. Beck, the last two being pastels. The other gifts were
“Twilight after Rain,” by Norwood H. MacGilvary, presented by
Mr. Frederic F. Sherman in memory of Eloise Lee Sherman; “ The
Wreck,” by Harrington Fitzgerald, donated by the artist; and “ The
Lace Maker,” after Terburg, contributed by Miss Julia H. Chadwick.
The bequests consisted of the “ Tomb of ‘ Mahomet the Gentleman’
at Broussa,” by Hamdy Bey, from Mrs. Elizabeth C. Hobson; and a
portrait from the widow of the late Col. Albert B. Brackett, United
States Army, by G. P. A. Healy. The additions to the loan collec-
49 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion comprised 18 paintings and 2 marble sculptures received from
12 friends of the Gallery.

ART TEXTILES.

The lace exhibit now embraces a fairly connected series both in
respect to the varieties of laces and the development of the industry,
and it also contains some important examples which from their
quality and rarity form striking museum pieces. Though smaller
and less conspicuous in the matter of display material than some
others, it ranks high among the museum collections of the country.
The work during the year was mainly in the direction of securing
a more systematic arrangement of the collection and of more fully
labeling both specimens and cases. The collection at present consists
chiefly of loans, which have increased in number from year to year,
with the expectation of soon making the collection more permanent in

character.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Duplicate specimens to the number of about 7,300 were distributed
to schools and colleges for teaching purposes, the subjects represented
being mainly fishes, insects, marine invertebrates, rocks, ores, min-
erals, and fossils. Some 1,500 pounds of material suitable for blow-
pipe and assay work by students was also similarly disposed of.
Over 21,000 duplicates were used in making exchanges, about 85
per cent of this number being plants. Two hundred and six lots of
specimens were sent to specialists for working up both on behalf
of the Museum and in the interest of the advancement of researches
by other institutions. They comprised over 12,700 individual speci-
mens, besides several hundred packages of unassorted material,
principally of animals, plants, and fossils.

The aggregate number of visitors to the new building on week
days during the year was 261,636, a daily average of 836, and on
Sundays 58,170, a daily average of 1,118. The attendance at the
older Museum building was 173,858, and at the Smithsonian build-
ing 142,420, these figures representing a daily average of 555 for
the former and of 455 for the latter. During inaugural week in
March, 1913, the daily average for the new building was increased
to 5 395 persons, the largest attendance for any aaiie day having
bash: 13,236 on March 5

The on ae Lele of Bulletins 79 and 81 and volumes 42_
and 48 of the Proceedings, besides 105 papers issued in separate
form, of which 96 belonged to the series of Proceedings and 9 to the
Contributions from the National Herbarium. Thirty-five papers on
Museum subjects, mainly descriptive of new additions to the collec-
tions, were also published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions. The number of copies of Museum publications distributed,
including earlier issues as well as those of the year, was about 71,600.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

The furnishing of the library quarters in the new building was
completed early in the autumn of 1912, and the transfer of the books
and equipment intended to be kept there was soon afterwards accom-
plished. While designed primarily to accommodate the natural
history and anthropological publications, which comprise the major
part of the collection, this has also been constituted the main or
central library, where most of the general works of reference will be
placed and where all publications will be received and catalogued.
The library in the older building will hereafter be mainly restricted
to the subjects of history and the arts and industries. The accessions
of the year consisted of 1,690 books, 2,213 pamphlets, and 159 parts
of volumes, which increased the total contents of the library to
43,692 volumes and 72,042 unbound papers of all kinds.

The facilities afforded by the new building for meetings and other
functions were frequently availed of. The auditorium and committee
rooms were used for the regular meetings of the Anthropological
Society of Washington, the Washington Society of the Fine Arts, and
the Spanish-American Atheneum, and for a course of iectures under
the Naval War College Extension. The annual meeting and semicen-
tennial anniversary of the National Academy of Sciences were held
in April. Of congresses and other assemblages which were accommo-
dated wholly or in part in the building were the Fifteenth Interna-
tional Congress on Hygiene and Demography; the Ninth Triennial
Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons; a joint meeting of
the American Philological Association, the Archaeological Institute
of America, and the Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis; a
meeting of the American Farm-Management Association; the Twen-
tieth Annual Convention of the International Kindergarten Union;
and a meeting of the General Federation of Women’s Clubs. The
Department of Agriculture had the use of the auditorium for annual
conferences on farm management and meat inspection. Besides simi-
lar functions in connection with two of the above meetings, recep-
tions were given by the Regents and Secretary to the members in
attendance at the Eighth International Congress of Applied Chem-
istry and the Sixth International Congress for Testing Materials,
and to the Daughters of the American Revolution. On the evening
of March 6 Mr. James Wilson, late Secretary of Agriculture, was
tendered a reception by the employees of the Department of Agri-
culture.

Respectfully submitted.
RicHarp RaTHBUN,

Assistant Secretary in Charge, U. 8. National Museum.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Novemper 12, 1913.
APPENDIX 2.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report of the opera-
tions of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1913, which have been conducted by authority of the
act of Congress approved August 24, 1912, making appropriations for
sundry civil expenses of the Government, and in accordance with a
plan of operations approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. The act referred to contains the following provision:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archzologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and
the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, including payment in advance
for subscriptions, $42,000.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

The systematic researches were conducted by the regular staff of
the bureau, consisting of seven ethnologists, and by other specialists
not directly connected with the bureau. These operations may be
summarized as follows:

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, was occupied almost en-
tirely during the year with administrative affairs pertaining to the
bureau’s activities. He was able to devote some time to the prepara-
tion of the Bibliography of the Pueblo Indians, the writings relating
to the subject covering so extended a period (from 1539 to date) and
being so numerous that much remains to be done. He devoted atten-
tion also, as opportunity offered, to the revision of certain sections of
the Handbook of American Indians, but as it is the desire to revise
this work completely, with the aid of the entire staff of the bureau as
well as of other specialists, little more than a beginning of the revi-
sion has been made. Mr. Hodge continued to represent the Smith-
sonian Institution at the meetings of the United States Board on
Geographic Names, and the Bureau of American Ethnology on the
Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, spent the summer months and
part of the autumn of 1912 in correcting the proofs of his monograph
on Casa Grande and of his report on the Antiquities of the Upper
Verde River and Walnut Creek Valleys, Arizona, both of which

44

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

appear in the Twenty-eighth Annual Report of the bureau, and in
completing the draft of a memoir devoted to the Symbolic Designs
on Hopi Pottery, which it is designed to publish with numerous illus- —
trations. The remainder of the autumn was occupied by Dr. Fewkes
in gathering material for an evertual memoir on the Culture History
of the Aborigines of the Lesser Antilles, these data being derived
chiefly from a study of the early literature of the subject and of the
rich West Indian collections from the island of St. Vincent in the
Heye Museum of New York City. Preparatory to the publication of
the final results, Dr. Fewkes, with the generous permission of George
G. Heye, Esq., selected with entire freedom the necessary objects for
illustration, and before the close of the fiscal year about 200 drawings
of the archeological objects in this important collection had been
finished.

In October, 1912, Dr. Fewkes sailed for the West Indies under the
joint auspices of the bureau and the Heye Museum, the special object
in view being the gathering of new archeological data through the
excavation of village sites and refuse-heaps and the examination of
local collections in the islands. Dr. Fewkes visited Trinidad, Bar-
bados, St. Vincent, Balliceaux, Grenada, Dominica, St. Kitts, Santa
Cruz, and other islands, excavating shell-heaps in Trinidad and Bal-
liceaux, and making archeological studies in other isles. The results
of the fee egations in Trinidad proved to be especially important,
owing to the light which they shed on the pebite taal culture of the
former aborigines of the coast adjacent to South America.

Extensive excavations were made in a large shell-heap, known as
Tehip-Tchip Hill, on the shore of Erin Bay in the Cedros district.
This midden is historic, for it was in Erin Bay that Columbus
anchored on his third voyage, sending men ashore to fill their casks
at the spring or stream near this Indian mound. Tchip-Tchip Hill
is now covered with buildings to so great an extent that it was pos-
sible to conduct excavations only at its periphery; nevertheless the
diggings yielded a rich and unique collection that well illustrates the
culture of the natives of this part of Trinidad. The collection con-
sists of several fine unbroken pottery vessels with painted decoration,
and more than a hundred well-made effigy heads of clay, in addition
to effigy jars and many broken decorated bowls. There were also
obtained from the Erin Bay midden several stone hatchets charac-
teristic of Trinidad and the adjacent coast of South America, a few
shell and bone gorgets, and other artifacts illustrating the activities
of the former inhabitants. It is an interesting fact that as a whole
the objects here found resemble those that have been taken from shell-
heaps on the Venezuela coast and from the Pomeroon district of
British Guiana more closely than they resemble related specimens
from the other islands of the Lesser Antilles. Several other middens
46 — ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

were examined in Trinidad, the most representative of which is situ-
ated near San Jose, the old Spanish capital. Promising shell-heaps
were discovered also at Mayaro Bay on the eastern coast.

One of the most important results of the West Indian field work
by Dr. Fewkes was a determination of the geographical distribution
of certain types of artifacts and a comparison of the prehistoric cul-
ture areas in the so-called Carib Islands. Evidence of the existence
of a sedentary culture on these islands preceding that of the Carib
was obtained, showing it to have distantly resembled that of Porto
Rico; this culture, however, was not uniform. Dr. Fewkes also found
that there were a number of subcultures in these islands. In pre-
historic time Trinidad and Tobago, it was determined, were some-
what similar culturally, just as they are similar geologically and bio-
logically, to northern South America. In Dr. Fewkes’s opinion per-
haps nowhere is the effect of environment on human culture better
illustrated than in the chain of islands extending from Grenada to
Guadeloupe, which were inhabited, when discovered, by Carib, some
of whose descendants are still to be found in Dominica and St. Vin-
cent. The earlier or pre-Carib people were culturally distinct from
those of Trinidad in the south, St. Kitts in the north, and Barbados
in the east. The stone implements of the area are characteristic and
the prehistoric pottery can readily be distinguished from that of the
islands beyond the limits named.

A large number of shell-heaps on St. Vincent were visited and
studies made of localities in that island in which caches of stone
implements have been found. Six groups of petroglyphs were ex-
amined, even some of the best known of which have never been de-
scribed. Special effort was made to obtain information respecting
the origin of certain problematical objects of tufaceous stone in the
Heye Museum, said to have been collected from beneath the lava beds
on the flank of the Soufriére.

Dr. Fewkes visited the locality on the island of Balliceaux where
the Carib of St. Vincent were settled after the Carib wars and be-
fore they were deported to Roatan on the coast of Honduras. Ex-
tensive excavations were made at the site of their former settlement
at. Banana Bay, where there is now a midden overgrown with brush.
Here much pottery, as well as several human skeletons and some
shells and animal bones, were found.

The mixed-blood survivors of the St. Vincent Carib who once lived
at Morne Rond, near the Soufriere, but who are now settled at
Campden Park near Kingstown, were visited. These still retain some
of their old customs, as making cassava from the poisonous roots of
the manihot, and preserve a few words of their native tongue. A
brief vocabulary was obtained, but Carib is no longer habitually
spoken in St. Vincent.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

The fertile island of St. Kitts and the neighboring Nevis were
found to be particularly instructive archeologically. Both have sev-
eral extensive middens and well-preserved pictographs, the former
having yielded many artifacts that illustrate the material culture
of its pre-Carib inhabitants. Through the courtesy of Mr. Connell
his large collection, which adequately illustrates the culture of St.
Kitts and Nevis, was placed at the disposal of Dr. Fewkes for the
purpose of study, and he was permitted to make drawings of the more
typical objects, one of the most instructive of which is a sculptured
torso from Nevis.

In Barbados Dr. Fewkes examined the midden at Indian River,
on the west coast, from which site the important Taylor archeological
collection was gathered. Several other middens were visited on the
lee coast from Bridgetown to the northern end of the island, where
a marly hill strewn with potsherds was observed. He also examined
the so-called “ Indian excavations” at Freshwater Bay and others
at Indian River, and visited several cave shelters on the island. The
most noteworthy of these caves are situated at Mount Gilboa and
in the Scotland district, St. Lucy Parish. To one of these, known
as the “ Indian Castle,” described in 1750 by the Rev. Griffith Hughes,
who claims to have found therein an idol and other undoubted
Indian objects, Dr. Fewkes devoted much attention. The gulches
so characteristic of Barbados were favorite resorts of the aborigines,
and, judging by the artifacts, furnished cave shelters for them.
Although uninhabited at the time of its discovery, there is evidence
of a considerable prehistoric aboriginal population in Barbados,
whose culture was influenced largely by the character of the material
from which their artifacts were made, most of them being fashioned
from shell instead of stone, a characteristic seemingly constituting
this island a special culture area.

A collection of stone implements, including celts, axes, and other
objects, was gathered at Santa Cruz. Several local collections of
archeological objects were examined, and the large midden at the
mouth of Salt River was visited. The prehistoric objects obtained
on this island and from St. Thomas resemble those from Porto Rico.

Although the Carib inhabitants of the Lesser Antilles are no
longer of pure blood, and their language is known to only a few
persons in Dominica and St. Vincent, and to these but imperfectly,
it was found that the negroes, who form more than nine-tenths of
the insular population, retain in modified form some traces of the
material culture of the Indians. Cassava is the chief food of many
of the people, and the method of its preparation has been little
changed since aboriginal times. Cocoa is ground on a stone and
made into cylindrical rolls in much the same manner as it was pre-
pared by the Indians in early times. The basketry made in Do-
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

minica was found to be the same in style and materials as is de-
scribed by the early missionaries to the Carib; while the negroes of
Nevis manufacture pottery of the same form and ornament and
burn it in much the same way as that found in the middens of St.
Kitts. In working their spells, the obia men commonly sprinkle
stone objects with the blood of a goat, and the common people re-
gard petroglyphs as “jumbies,” or bugaboos. A great number of
folk tales of a mixed aboriginal and negro type are still recounted
in the cabins of the lowly, where Carib names for animals, plants,
and places are household words.

On his return to Washington Dr. Fewkes undertook the preparation
of a report on his archeological researches in the West Indies, and
considerable progress therein had been made by the close of the
fiscal year.

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, was occupied during the greater
part of the year with the investigation of Indian population, which
has engaged his attention for a considerable time. This research
covers the whole period from the first occupancy of the country by
white people to the present time, and includes the entire territory from
the Rio Grande to the Arctic. To make possible systematic treat-
ment the area covered has been mapped into about 25 sections, each
of which constitutes approximately a single geographical and his-
torical unit for separate treatment, although numerous migrations
and removals, and the frequent formation of new combinations, neces-
sitate a constant overlapping of the work of the sections. Several of
the eastern areas have been completed and more or less progress has
been made with each of the others. More recently Mr. Mooney has
concentrated attention on Alaska and western Canada, for the Arctic
parts of which Mr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson and Dr. Waldemar
Jochelson have generously furnished new and valuable data. In
this memoir the plan is to include chapters on notable epidemics, vital
statistics, and race admixture, and the work is intended to appear as
a monograph on the subject.

On June 18, 1913, Mr. Mooney proceeded to the Eastern Cherokee
Indians in North Carolina to continue his investigations of the med-
ical and religious ritual of that tribe, commenced a number of years
ago, as it was deemed wise to finish this part of his Cherokee studies
as soon as practicable by reason of the changes that are so rapidly
taking place among this people. Mr. Mooney was still in the field
at the close of the fiscal year.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, continued, both in the field and
at the office, his studies of the Indians formerly occupying the ter-
ritory of the southern States. He spent the month of November,
1912, with the Alabama and Koasati Indians in Polk County, Tex.,
where he recorded 250 pages of texts in the dialects spoken by these

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

two tribes, corrected several texts obtained on earlier expeditions,
and added materially to his general ethnological information regard-
ing them. In December Dr. Swanton proceeded to Oklahoma, where
he obtained about 50 pages of text in Hitchiti, a language now con-
fined to a very few persons among the Creek Indians, and collected a
few notes regarding the Choctaw.

Before his departure from Washington and after his return Dr.
Swanton spent the greater part of the time in collecting information
_ concerning the Southern tribes from early Spanish, French, and
English authorities. Considerable attention was also devoted to
reading the proofs of the Rev. Cyrus Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary,
now in process of printing, in which labor he was efficiently aided
by Mr. H. S. Halbert, of the Alabama State department of archives
and history. Dr. Swanton also commenced a general grammatical
study of the languages of the Muskhogean stock, particularly Ala-
bama, Hitchiti, and Choctaw, and in order to further this work he
was subsequently engaged in making a preliminary stem catalogue
of Creek from the material recorded by the late Dr. Gatschet, similar
to the catalogue already prepared for Hitchiti, Alabama, and
Natchez. He began also the preparation of a card catalogue of words
in Timucua, the ancient extinct language of Florida, taken from the
grammar and catechisms of Father Pareja. In May, Dr. Swanton
visited New York in order to examine rare Timucua works in the
Buckingham Smith collection of the New York Historical Society.
Through the courtesy of this society and of the New York Public
Library arrangements have been made for furnishing photostat
copies of these rare and important books, and the reproductions were
in preparation at the close of the fiscal year.

In connection with the researches of Dr. Swanton, it is gratifying
to report that he was awarded last spring the second Loubat prize in
recognition of his two publications—* Tlingit Myths and Texts ” and
“Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent Coast
of the Gulf of Mexico ”—both issued by the bureau.

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, devoted her time to the con-
clusion of her researches among the Tewa Indians of New Mexico
and to the preparation of a paper on that interesting and conserva-
tive people. A preliminary table of contents of the proposed memoir
indicates that her studies of the customs and beliefs of the Tewa will
be as comprehensive as the published results of her investigations of
the Sia and the Zui tribe of the same State. As at present outlined,
the work, which will soon be completed, will contain six sections, deal-
ing with the following subjects, respectively: Philosophy, anthropic
worship and ritual, zoic worship, social customs, material culture, and
history.

44863°—sm 1913——4
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, continued his studies among
the Algonquian tribes. In the middle of July, 1912, he proceeded
to the Fox Indians, at Tama, Iowa, from whom a large additional
body of mythological material was obtained; this, in connection with
the myths and legends in the form of texts gathered during the
previous season, approximates 7,000 pages. When the translation
of this material shall have been finished it will form one of the most
exhaustive collections of mythology of any Indian tribe. It is note-
worthy that these myths and tales differ essentially in style from.
those gathered by the late Dr. William Jones (scarcely any of whose
material has been duplicated by Dr. Michelson), a fact that empha-
sizes the necessity of recording such material in the aboriginal tongue.
It may be added that the myths and tales collected are also important
in the light they shed on the dissemination of myths. Study of the
social and ceremonial organization of the Fox Indians was likewise
continued, and especially full notes were obtained on their Religion
dance. Many of the songs of one of the drums were recorded on a
dictaphone and several photographs of the native ball game were
secured.

Dr. Michelson next proceeded to Haskell Institute, the nonreserva-
tion Indian school at Lawrence, Kans., for the purpose of obtaining
notes on Atsina (Gros Ventre) and several other Algonquian lan-
guages, the results of which show definitely that Atsina shares with
Arapaho all the deviations from normal Algonquian, and that Pota-
watomi is further removed from Ojibwa, Ottawa, and Algonkin
than any one of these is from the others.

Dr. Michelson next visited the Munsee, in Kansas, but found that,
unfortunately, little is now available in the way of information
except as to their language, which is still spoken by about half a
dozen individuals, though none employ it habitually.

The Delawares of Oklahoma were next visited, Dr. Michelson find-
ing that their aboriginal customs are still retained to a large extent.
Extended observations were made on several dances, and, to a lesser
extent, on the social organization. From a study of the Delaware
language, together with the Munsee dialect of Kansas, it was ascer-
tained, as had previously been surmised, that the Delaware language
of the early Moravian missionary Zeisberger represents no single
dialect but a medley of several dialects.

On his way to Washington Dr. Michelson stopped again at Tama
to obtain additional notes on the Fox Indians; at the same time he
succeeded in arranging for the acquirement of certain sacred packs
for the National Museum. He also visited Chicago and New York
for the purpose of making comparative observations on the material
culture of the Fox tribe, based on collections in the museums of those
cities.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

On his arrival in Washington, at the close of December, Dr.
Michelson undertook the translation and study of some of the Fox
myths; the results indicate that very great firmness in the word unit
in Algonquian is more apparent than real, and that the classification
of stems must be revised. Dr. Michelson also brought to conclusion
his translation of the Kickapoo myths and tales collected by the late
Dr. Jones, to which were added notes on Kickapoo grammar and
comparative notes on the myths and tales, the whole making some-
what more than 300 pages.

Through correspondence Dr. Michelson succeeded in arranging
for the acquirement of other sacred packs of the Fox Indians, which
have been deposited in the National Museum. He also aided in
furnishing information in answer to inquiries by various corre-
spondents, and from time to time supplied data for incorporation in
a new edition of the Handbook of American Indians.

From the investigations of the bureau it seemed that the Siouan
and Muskhogean languages resembled each other morphologically.
In view of these circumstances, it was deemed desirable that the
Catawba, one of the Siouan tongues, should be restudied, and ac-
cordingly, toward the close of May, 1913, Dr. Michelson proceeded
to South Carolina, where the remnant of the Catawba tribe still
reside. Unfortunately, it was found that the language is all but
extinct, not even half a dozen persons being able to recall phrases,
although isolated words can still be had in goodly number. Owing
to this paucity of text material it is hardly likely that the grammar
of Catawba will ever be completely elucidated, and as no compara-
tive study with other Siouan dialects has yet been made, it is not
practicable at present to say with which Siouan group the language
is most closely associated. A considerable number of native songs
are still remembered by the surviving Catawba, nearly all of which
Dr. Michelson succeeded in recording by dictaphone.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, was occupied during the year in
translating unedited Seneca texts of myths which were collected by
himself in 1896 and at other times on the Cattaraugus Reservation
in western New York and on the Grand River Reservation in Ontario,
Canada. These myths, legends, and tales number 13 in all. In addi-
tion, Mr. Hewitt undertook the editing of two Seneca texts— The
Legend of S‘hagowé’‘not‘ha’, or The Spirit of the Tides,” and “The
Tale of Doi’danégé” and Hotkwisdadegé”’ a‘ ”’—recorded by him-
self in the form of field notes in 1896 and aggregating 95 typewritten
pages. At the close of the fiscal year about one-third of this work
was completed. To these texts interlinear translations are to be added
for the purpose of aiding in the grammatic study of the Seneca
tongue.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Mr. Hewitt also devoted much time to the collection and prepara-
tion of data for answers to correspondents of the bureau, especially
with reference to the Iroquoian and Algonquian tribes.

Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, continued his investigations
of the ethnology of the Osage Indians, giving particular attention to
their rituals and accompanying songs. He was enabled to record on
the dictaphone the songs and fragments of the rituals belonging
to the Waxobe degree of the No" ho"zhi"ga rites, of which, as noted in
the last annual report, he has been making a special study. These
rituals have been transcribed and, with the 84 songs that have been
transcribed in musical notation by Miss Alice C. Fletcher, comprise
66 typewritten pages.

Mr. La Flesche has also been able to record the No” zhi"zho*, or
Fasting degree, of the Puma and Black Bear gentes. These two
organizations are closely related; they not only use in common the
songs and rituals of the No™’ho*zhitga rites, but they even go to the
extent of exchanging gentile personal names as full recognition
of their relationship. The No’zhitzho" degree employs 12 rituals
and numerous songs, of which latter 81 have been recorded. These
songs are divided into two great groups, the first of which is known as
“The Seven Songs,” having 16 sets, and the second, “ The Six Songs,”
having 17 sets. The Osage texts of these rituals and songs cover 207
pages, about three-fourths of which have been finally typewritten.
The 81 songs have been transcribed in musical notation by Miss
Fletcher, while the translation of the rituals and the words of the
songs is In progress.

In the autumn of 1912 Mr. La Flesche was fortunate in securing
in full the Ni’k’i degree of these intricate Osage rites. Hitherto he
had been able to obtain only the beginning of this degree, but his in-
formant was finally induced to recite it in its entirety, comprising
1,542 lines. The real title of this degree is Ni’k’1 No"k’o", “ The Hear-
ing of the Words of the People.” In it the genesis of the tribe is
given in a story made up of myth, legend, and symbolism, the whole
being clearly devised to keep the people ever mindful of the necessity
of an orderly and authoritative conduct of war. It goes to show that
the principle of war was early recognized by the Osage as the surest
means by which not only tribal and individual life might be safe-
guarded against strange and hostile tribes, but also as the means by
which the tranquil enjoyment of game and other natural products of
their environment might be won. It is to this coveted tranquillity
that the closing lines of many of the rituals refer, invariably likening
it to a “serene day.” This degree employs ritual almost entirely,
there being only 10 songs. The native ritual comprises 57 type-
written pages, of which a large part has been translated.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5S

In the spring of 1913 Mr. La Flesche obtained the Rush Mat Weav-
ing degree of the Puma and Black Bear gentes. Only the “ Seven
Songs” spoken of before, with various ceremonial forms, are em-
ployed in this degree, the “ Six Songs” being entirely omitted. The
distinguishing features are the ceremonial weaving of the rush mat
for the sacred case in which were enshrined the bird and other sacred
objects, the renewal of all the articles that make up the sacred
bundle, and the ceremonial stitching of the ends of the case. In some
respects this is one of the most extraordinary degrees of the Osage
that Mr. La Flesche has yet observed, since in its performance there
are used 70 brass kettles, 70 red-handled knives, and 70 awls in mak-
ing the various articles, all of which the votary is obliged to furnish,
together with other expensive articles that constitute the fees of the
initiator and other officiating No" ho"zhi*ga, as also 70 pieces of choice
jerked meat for distribution among the members attending the initia-
tion. Three rituals not used in the other degrees are employed in
this, namely, the Green Rush ritual, the Bark ritual, and the Stitch-
ing and Cutting ritual. There are 61 pages of Osage text, about half
of which have been transcribed.

Mr. La Flesche also obtained the rituals and songs of the Washabe
Athi”, “The Carrying of a Dark Object,” with full description of
the various processions and ceremonial forms. This is a war cere-
mony, which, although not counted as a degree, is a rite to which
the seven degrees lead. The name of this ceremony is derived from
the war insignia, which is the charcoal ceremonially prepared from
certain sacred trees, and which symbolizes the black marks denoting
the birds and animals used to typify strength, courage, and fleetness.
Mr. La Flesche’s Osage informant regards this as the final act of
the seven degrees. The Osage text comprises 90 pages, nearly one-
half of which has been transcribed, together with 36 songs, which
have been transcribed by Miss Fletcher, and 7 diagrams.

Mr. La Flesche was fortunate enough to procure the sacred bundle
of the Deer gens and the reed-whistle bundle of the Wind gens; the
contents of the latter are of exceptional interest. Mrs. Brogahige,
one of the ceremonial weavers of the Osage, at considerable sacrifice
to herself, presented Mr. La Flesche two sacred looms, one of which
is used in weaving the buffalo-hair case, and the other in weaving
the rush case for the sacred bird. These packs, together with speci-
mens of ceremonially made burden straps which Mr. La Flesche c¢ol-
lected, have been placed in the National Museum.

Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, continued the preparation of
the material for the Handbook of American Indian Languages. As
stated in the last annual report, the manuscript of the grammar of
the Chukchee language, to appear in Part 2 of this handbook, was
completed and in its final form was discussed with the author, Mr.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Waldemar Bogoras, during the visit of Dr. Boas to Berlin in the
summer of 1912. The results of these discussions were embodied in
the work, the manuscript was delivered, and the typesetting com-
menced. At the same time Dr. Boas studied the Koryak texts col-
lected by Mr. Bogoras, published in accordance with the plan pre-
viously outlined, at the expense of the American Ethnological
Society, and the indispensable references were embodied in the gram-
matical sketch.

The Coos grammar by Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg was completed, so
far as the work of the editor, Dr. Boas, is concerned, the page proofs
having been finally revised.

The manuscript for the Siuslaw grammar, also by Dr. Frachten-
berg, was submitted and the editing considerably advanced; this
will be completed as soon as the entire series of Siuslaw texts are in
print, a work that has been undertaken under Dr. Boas’s editorship
by Columbia University. All the collected texts are now in type,
so that examples can be added to the manuscript of the grammar.

Dr. Frachtenberg remained in Siletz, Oreg., throughout the year
for the purpose of revising on the spot the materials on the Oregon
languages. He was engaged in collecting and arranging the Alsea
material for Part 2 of the Handbook of Languages, and in preparing
for the discussion of his Molala linguistics. The rapid disappearance
of the Calapooya may make it necessary, however, to complete the
field work on the language of this people before closing the work
on the other manuscripts, even though this procedure may entail delay
in the printing of the volume.

Dr. Alexander F. Chamberlain, of Clark University, who has
undertaken the preparation of a grammar of the Kutenai language,
expects to deliver his manuscript early in the new fiscal year. The
printing of this sketch must necessarily be delayed until the text
material is available in print.

Miss Haessler continued her preparations for a careful revision of
the Dakota Dictionary by Riggs, a work made necessary by reason
of the need of greater precision in phonetics and translation, as well
as of a more systematic arrangement of the material. Miss Haessler
expects to complete all the preliminary work by the summer of 1914,
so that, should facilities be available, she will then be able to under-
take the required field work.

Miss Frances Densmore continued her studies in Indian music,
devoting special attention to that of the Sioux, and during the year
submitted three papers, comprising 252 pages of manuscript, original
phonographic records and musical transcription of 107 songs, and 23
original photographic illustrations. Three subjects have been ex-
haustively studied and a fourth is represented in such manner that
the results may be regarded as ready for publication. The three
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

principal subjects are: The sacred stones, dreams about animals, and
the buffalo hunt. The fourth subject referred to relates to the war-
path and is represented by about 20 songs, but it awaits further study
of the military societies. A special group of songs consists of those
which have been composed and sung by the Sioux in honor of Miss
Densmore.

A study of the music of the Mandan and Hidatsa at Fort Berthold,
N. Dak., was made by Miss Densmore in the summer of 1912, in coop-
eration with the Historical Society of the State of North Dakota.
The results of this investigation consist of a manuscript of about 50
pages, with transcriptions of 40 songs.

Miss Densmore also read the proofs of Bulletin 53 (Chippewa
Music—IT), which is now in press.

Mr. W. H. Holmes, head curator of the department of anthro-
pology of the United States National Museum, continued the prep-
aration of the Handbook of American Archeology for publication
by the bureau, as far as the limited time available for the purpose
permitted. Aside from the preparation of the text and illustra-
tions for parts 1 and 2 of this handbook, Mr. Holmes made field
observations among the ancient mica mines in western North Caro-
lina and among mounds and village sites in South Carolina and
Georgia. He also visited a number of museums for the purpose of
examining the collections of archeological material, among them
being the museums of Boston, Andover, New York City, Philadel-
phia, Columbus, Chicago, Milwaukee, Madison, Davenport, and St.
Louis.

Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr., made good progress in the compilation of
the Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Mississippi, the
manuscript material for which, recorded on cards, now approximates
160,000 words. The collated material has been derived from (1) replies
to circular letters addressed to county clerks in all of the States east of
the Mississippi, (2) communications from various societies and indi-
viduals, and (3) publications pertaining to the subject of American
antiquities. It is gratifying to state that there are very few areas
not covered by the material already in hand, and it is expected that
through the systematic manner in which Mr. Bushnell is prosecuting
the work the handbook will be as complete as it is practicable to make
it by the time it is ready. for publication.

The investigations conducted jointly in 1910 and 1911 by the bu-
reau and the School of American Archeology have borne additional
fruit. An extended memoir on the Ethnogeography of the Tewa
Indians, by J. P. Harrington, was received and will appear as the
“accompanying paper” of the Twenty-ninth Annual Report, now
in press. Three bulletins, namely, (No. 54) The Physiography of
the Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, in Relation to Pueblo Culture,
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

by Edgar L. Hewett, Junius Henderson, and W. W. Robbins; (No.
55) The Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians, by Barbara W. Freire-
Marreco, W. W. Robbins, and J. P. Harrington; and (No. 56) The
Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians, by Junius Henderson and J. P.
Harrington, were also presented as a part of the results of the joint
expeditions and are either published or in process of printing. Mr.
Harrington also made progress in the preparation of his report
on the Mohave Indians, and Miss Freire-Marreco is expected to
submit shortly an extended paper on the Yavapai tribe. There re-
mains to be mentioned in this connection another memoir, namely,
An Introduction to the Study of the Maya Meroglyphs, by Sylvanus
G. Morley; while not a direct product of the joint work of the
bureau and the school, this is in a measure an outgrowth of it. The
manuscript, together with the accompanying illustrations, has been
submitted to the bureau, but is now temporarily in the author’s hands
for slight revision.

Since the publication of the Handbook of American Indians,
through which additional popular interest in our aborigines has been
aroused, it has been the desire to make a beginning toward the prepa-
ration of a series of handbooks devoted to the Indians of the re-
spective States. The opportunity was fortunately presented toward
the close of the fiscal year, when the bureau was enabled to enlist the
aid of Dr. A. L. Kroeber, of the University of California, who has .
kindly consented to undertake the preparation of the initial volume
of the series, to be devoted to the Indians of California. It is planned
to present the material in each volume in as popular a form as prac-
ticable, in order that it may be made of the greatest use to schools,
and it is hoped that the means may be soon available to make pos-
sible the extension of the series to other States.

Under a small allotment from the bureau, Mr. James Murie con-
tinued his studies of Pawnee ceremonies. He devoted special atten-
tion to the medicine rites, and on June 13, 1913, submitted a descrip-
tion of the ritual pertaining to the “ Purification of the Buffalo
Skull ”.

The transcription of the manuscript French-Miami Dictionary in
the John Carter Brown Library at Providence, R. I., to which at-
tention has been directed in previous reports, was finished by Miss
Margaret Bingham Stillwell, who submitted the last pages of the
vocabulary (which number 1,120 in all) early in January, 1913.
The bureau is under obligations to Mr. George Parker Winship,
librarian of the John Carter Brown Library, for his generous co-
operation in placing this valued document at the disposal of the
bureau and to Miss Stillwell for the efficient manner in which this
difficult task was accomplished.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

In the latter part of the fiscal year Mr. Jacob P. Dunn, of Indian-
apolis, in whose hands the French-Miami Dictionary was placed for
study, commenced the annotation of the transcription and the addi-
tion of English equivalents. This necessitated a journey to Okla-
homa, where Mr. Dunn enlisted the services of a Miami Indian as
an interpreter. The result of these studies consists of (a) the
French-Miami-English Dictionary, from Adbbaiser to Cajeux; (6)
The History of Genesis, Chapter I, being Peoria text with Miami-
English translation; (¢) English-Miami Dictionary, from Abandon
to Aim; (d) Wissakatcakwa Stories, recorded in Peoria by the late
Dr. Gatschet, for which Mr. Dunn has made an interlinear trans-
lation.

The compilation of the List of Works Relating to Hawai was
continued by Prof. Howard M. Ballou, of the College of Hawaii,
who from time to time has submitted additional titles. The record-
ing of the material by more than one person necessarily resulted in
more or less inconsistency in form; consequently the manuscript,
which consists of many thousands of cards, has been in need of edi-
torial revision in order to insure uniformity. For this revision the
bureau has been fortunate in enlisting the services of Mr. Felix
Neumann, an experienced bibliographer, who is making progress in
the work.

PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work of the bureau has been conducted as usual by
Mr. J. G. Gurley, editor. The following publications were issued
during the year:

Twenty-eighth Annual Report, containing “ accompanying
papers” as follows: (1) Casa Grande, by Jesse Walter Fewkes;
(2) Antiquities of the Upper Verde River and Walnut Creek Valleys,
Arizona, by Jesse Walter Fewkes; (8) Preliminary Report on the
Linguistic Classification of Algonquian Tribes, by Truman Michelson.

Bulletin 30, Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico,
edited by Frederick Webb Hodge. By concurrent resolution of
Congress, in August, 1912, a reprint of this bulletin was ordered in
an edition of 6,500 copies, of which 4,000 were for the use of the
House of Representatives, 2,000 for the use of the Senate, and 500
for the use of the bureau. This reprint, in which were incorporated
such desirable alterations as could be conveniently made without
affecting the pagination of the work, was issued in January, 1913.

Bulletin 52, Karly Man in South America, by AleS Hrdlicka, in
collaboration with William H. Holmes, Bailey Willis, Fred. Eugene
Wright, and Clarence N. Fenner.

Bulletin 54, The Physiography of the Rio Grande Valley, New
Mexico, in Relation to Pueblo Culture, by Edgar Lee Hewett, Junius
Henderson, and Wilfred William Robbins.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The work on the other publications during the year may be sum-
marized as follows:

Twenty-ninth Annual Report (“ accompanying paper,” The Ethno-
geography of the Tewa Indians, by John Peabody Harrington).
Manuscript prepared for the printers and nearly half of the com-
position finished.

Thirtieth Annual Report (“accompanying papers”: (1) Animism
and Folklore of the Guiana Indians, by Walter E. Roth; (2) Tsim-
shian Mythology, by Franz Boas; (3) Ethnobotany of the Zuni
Indians, by Matilda Coxe Stevenson). Editing of the third paper
and to a considerable extent that of the first paper completed.

Bulletin 40, Handbook of American Indian Languages, by Franz
Boas—Part 2. Work on the Coos section nearly finished and com-
position of the Chukchee section begun. Two sections (Takelma and
Coos) are now “ made up,” aggregating 429 pages.

Bulletin 46, A Dictionary of the Choctaw Language, by Cyrus
Byington, edited by John R. Swanton and H. S. Halbert. The
editors have revised two galley proofs of the Choctaw-English sec-
tion of this dictionary and have practically finished preparation for
the printers of the English-Choctaw section. The first part of this
bulletin is now in process of paging.

Bulletin 53, Chippewa Music—II, by Frances Densmore. Manu-
script edited and the several proofs read, including proofs of 180
pieces of music. At the énd of the year the bulletin was held in the
Printing Office awaiting receipt of the necessary paper stock.

Bulletin 55, Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians, by Barbara Whit-
church Freire-Marreco, Wilfred William Robbins, and John Pea-
body Harrington. Manuscript edited and the work in galley form at
the close of the year.

Bulletin 56, Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians, by Junius Hender-
son and John Peabody Harrington. Manuscript edited and the work
in page form at the close of the year.

In accordance with the act of Congress approved August 23, 1912,
the entire stock of publications of the bureau, with the exception of
a few copies of each available work which have been retained at the
Smithsonian Institution for special purposes, was transferred to the
Government Printing Office in October, 1912, for distribution from
the office of the superintendent of documents on order from the
bureau. It has been found that this plan of distribution is highly
successful, and, of course, much less expensive to the bureau.

The correspondence relating to publications, of which 15,070 were
distributed during the year, was conducted under the immediate
supervision of Miss Helen Munroe, of the Smithsonian Institution.
The distribution of the publications may be summarized as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Series: Copies.
Report volumes andseparate, papers oo 0i aw ee ee a 3, 895
TEATS ENUM 210. SO EPEC eV PW POLES A 11, 040
Contributions to North American Ethnology______________ 15
STDS PTH EVE COIS) SN ay SR Os Sc i RM UP Wt ELE 21 7
MEISEEMANECOUS SOUDLIGATIONS® 2 eee ew tog ta a Nn 118

15, 070

The demand for the Handbook of American Indians (Bulletin 30)
continues unabated, by reason of the wide scope of the work, its
popular form of treatment, and its usefulness to schools. There is an
increasing demand for publications relating to Indian arts and crafts,
and to archeology. Theactivityintheestablishment of organizations
of Camp Fire Girls throughout the country has resulted in a flood of
requests for information relative to Indian customs, names, ete.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

As in the past, the preparation of illustrations for use in connection
with the publications of the bureau, as well as the making of photo-
graphic portraits of the members of visiting deputations of Indians,
continued in the immediate charge of Mr. De Lancey Gill, illustrator,
whose work during the year included the making of negatives of 113
visiting Indians and of 93 miscellaneous ethnologic subjects; he also
developed 298 negatives exposed by members of the bureau in their
field work, printed 975 photographs for official publication, exchange,
and presentation to Indians, and prepared 105 drawings for repro-
duction as illustrations for the publications of the bureau.

The tribes or pueblos represented by Indians who visited Washing-
ton during the year are: Acoma, Apache, Cheyenne, Chippewa,
Cochiti, Crow, Isleta, Kiowa, Osage, Passamaquoddy, Ponca, San
Juan, Santa Clara, Shoshoni, Sioux, Taos, and Wichita. Among the
more important Indians whose portraits were made may be men-
tioned Plenty Coups and Medicine Crow (Crow tribe), Big Man
and Iron Bear (Brulé Sioux), Hollow Horn Bear, Red Cloud, and
Red Hawk (Teton Sioux), Daybwawaindung (Chippewa), and Two
Moons (Cheyenne). Many requests are made by correspondents for
prints from the large collection of negatives in possession of the
bureau, but it has not been possible to supply these, owing to lack
of means, although in many cases they are desired for educational
purposes. The series of photographs of representative Indians, from
55 tribes, which was made during the last fiscal year for special ex-
hibition at the New York Public Library, has been borrowed from
the bureau by the Public Library Commission of Indiana for exhibi-
tion in the public libraries throughout the State. In the work of the
photographic laboratory Mr. Gill was assisted by Mr. Walter J. Sten-
house.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
LIBRARY.

The library of the bureau continued in immediate charge of Miss
Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mrs. Ella Slaughter. During the
year the accessions comprised 562 volumes (of which 129 were pur-
chased) and 244 pamphlets, bringing the total number of volumes in
the library to 18,532, and the pamphlets to 12,744. The periodicals
currently received by the bureau, of which there are several thousand
unbound parts, number 629; of these all but 18 are obtained in ex-
change for the bureau’s publications. Special attention was paid
during the year to filling lacune in the periodical series.

The cataloguing kept apace with the new accessions, and some
progress was made in cataloguing ethnologic and related articles in
the earlier serials. A monthly bulletin for the use of the members of
the bureau staff was compiled and posted by the librarian, who also
made a beginning in the preparation of a list of writings on the
music of American Indians.

As in the past, it was necessary to draw on the collections of the
Library of Congress, about 300 volumes having been borrowed dur-
ing the year. On the other hand, the library of the bureau is fre-
quently consulted by officers of the departments of the Government,
as well as by students not connected with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.

While many volumes are still without binding, the condition of
the library in this respect has greatly improved during the last few
years; 493 volumes were bound at the Government Printing Office
during the year.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections were made by the bureau or by members
of its staff during the fiscal year and transferred to the National
Museum:

54311. Six photographs (unmounted) taken by A. J. Horswill, San Jose, Min-
doro, P. I., among the natives of Mindoro Island. Gift to the bureau by
Munn & Co., New York.

54465. Sacred pack of the Fox Indians of Iowa. Purchased fer the bureau by
Dr. Truman Michelson.

54691. Five pieces of cotton painted with Assyrian subjects. Received by the
bureau from an unknown source.

54798. Three sacred looms and seven burden straps of the Osage Indians. Col-
lected by Francis La Flesche.

54933. Three fragments of Indian pottery found at Red Willow, Nebr., by Mrs.
Ada Buck Martin, by whom they were presented.

54934. Sacred bundle of the Fox Indians. Purchased through Dr. Truman
Michelson.

54946. Two sacred bundles of the Osage Indians. Purchased by Francis La

Flesche.

ie i ie ge
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

55002. Sacred bundle of the Fox Indians. Purchased through Dr. Truman
Michelson.

55075. An Osage buffalo-hair rope (reata) and an Osage woven belt. Pur-
chased through Francis La Flesche.

55234. Two ethnological objects from the natives of British Guiana, presented
to the bureau by Dr. Walter E. Roth, of Pomeroon River, British Guiana.

55323. Set of five plum-seed gaming dice of the Omaha Indians and a bottle of
seeds used by the same Indians as perfume. Presented by Francis La
Flesche.

55420. Pair of Osage ceremonial moccasins and an Osage ceremonial ‘ pipe.”
Presented by Francis La Flesche,

PROPERTY.

As stated in previous reports, the property of the bureau of great-
est value consists of its library, manuscripts for reference or publi-
cation, and photographic negatives. A reasonable number of cam-
eras, dictagraphs, and other apparatus, chiefly for use in the field,
as well as a limited stock of stationery and office supplies, necessary
office furniture, and equipment, are also in possession of the bureau.
The sum of $893.21 was expended for office furniture (including fire-
proof filing cases) during the year, $452.57 for apparatus (including
typewriters, cameras, dictagraphs, etc.), and $258.45 for books and
periodicals.

The manuscripts of the bureau, many of which are of extreme
value, are deposited in metal cases in a small room in the north
tower of the Smithsonian Building, which should be made as nearly
fireproof as possible. Requests for a small appropriation to protect
the manuscripts against possible destruction have been made in the
past, but unfortunately the means have not been granted. The
manuscripts, which have been in the immediate care of Mr. J. N. B.
Hewitt, have increased from time to time during the year, chiefly
by the temporary deposit of materials preparatory to editing for
publication. Mention may here be made, however, of the gift of
some manuscript Chippewa letters from the Rev. Joseph A. Gilfillan,
and the acquirement of a photostat copy of the Motul-Maya Diction-
ary, made at the expense of the bureau from the original in the John
Carter Brown Library, at Providence, R. I., as elsewhere noted.
Mention may also be made of various vocabularies or parts of vocabu-
laries, 23 items in all, which were restored to the bureau by Mrs.
Louisa H. Gatschet, who found them among Dr. Gatschet’s effects.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Quarters —Since the beginning of 1910 the offices of the bureau
have occupied nine rooms in the north tower of the Smithsonian
Building, and a room (the office of the ethnologist-in-charge) on the
north side of the third floor of the eastern wing, while the library
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

has occupied the entire eastern gallery of the large exhibition hall
on the first floor, and the photographic laboratory part of the gal-
lery in the southeastern section of the old National Museum building.
While the natural lighting of the rooms in the north tower, by reason
of the thickness of the walls and the narrowness of the windows, is
inadequate, and the distance from the library and the photographic
laboratory makes them not readily accessible, the office facilities are
far better than when the bureau was housed in cramped rented
quarters. Aside from the photographic laboratory and one room in
the north tower, no part of the bureau’s quarters is provided with
running water. It is presumed that after the rearrangement of the
large exhibition hall in the Smithsonian building and its adaptation
to general library purposes the facilities of the bureau library will
be greatly improved.

Office force-—The office force of the bureau has not been augmented,
although the correspondence has greatly increased owing to the grow-
ing demand on the bureau for information respecting the Indians.
The copying of the rough manuscripts, field notes, etc., prepared by
members of the bureau, as well as the verification of quotations,
bibliographic citations, and similar work of a minor editorial nature,
necessitate the employment of temporary aid from time to time.
Most of the answers to correspondents who desire information of a
special character have been prepared by the ethnologist-in-charge,
but every member of the bureau’s scientific staff is frequently called
on for the same purpose to furnish information pertaining to his
particular field of knowledge.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

Tt is difficult to extend the systematic researches of the bureau
along new and necessary lines without an increase of appropriations.
When a special research is undertaken, several years are often re-
quired to finish it, consequently the prospective income of the bureau
for a considerable period is required to carry out adequately the work
in hand. Opportunities are often presented for conducting investi-
gations in new fields which have to be neglected owing to lack of
means. An increase in the appropriations of the bureau has been
urged for several years, but unfortunately the estimates have not
been met with additional funds.

Respectfully submitted.
F. W. Hopes,
Ethnologist-in-charge.
Dr. Cuarues. D. WaAtcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.
APPENDIX 3.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1913.

The appropriation made by Congress for ie support of the service
during the year, including the allotment for printing and binding,
was $32,200 (the same amount as appropriated for the past five
years), and the repayments from private and departmental sources
for services rendered aggregated $4,249.13, making the total available
resources for carrying on the system of international exchanges
$36,449.13.

The work of the service is increasing at such a rapid rate that it
will be necessary in the near future to ask Congress to supply addi-
tional funds. More money is needed to meet freight charges on the
increased number of boxes now shipped abroad, and also for miscel-
laneous incidental expenses incurred in connection with the work of
the service. In 1913, 66 per cent more packages were handled than
in 1908, when the appropriation was first placed at $32,200, and 678
more boxes were dispatched. By means of various economies and
improvements in methods this increase in the volume of business has
been provided for without adding to the total cost of the service; but
little more can be done in this direction.

During the year 1913 the total number of packages handled was
338,621, an increase of 23,129, as compared with the preceding year.
The weight of these packages was 593,969 pounds, an increase of
25,257 pounds.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are in-
dicated in the following table:

Number and weight of packages sent and received.

Packages. Weight.

Sent. | Received.| Sent. | Received.

Pounds. | Pounds.

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad........- MAO S45) Cee gee 103;,820) | 2eeeeeeeee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents. .|.......... 2) 085/420. 11, 780
United States departmental documents sent abroad.......... CAST CRY 6a Lem tel se 173,,962'|5.(52 eee
Publications received in return for departmental documents. .|.......--- 9, O23 | haeceaniae 18, 847
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad..| 62,446 |........--- 158, 22:7) 126 ements
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received
from abroad for distribution in the United States. .........].....-.--- 44) 885 (ios cb eee 127, 333
Cell it AIRAR SRLS OG SCG ARE aU aR a 281, 728 56,893 | 436,009 157, 960

Gorparred tater aes eens UN fete a 338,621 593,969

63
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

As was somewhat fully explained in last year’s report, the dis-
parity between the number of packages dispatched and those re-
ceived in behalf of ‘the Government is not so great as indicated by
these figures. Packages sent abroad usually contain only a single
publication each, while those received in return often comprise many
volumes. In the case of publications received in exchange for par-
liamentary documents and some others the term “ package ” is applied
to large boxes containing a hundred or more publications. No lists
of these are made in the Exchange Office, as the boxes are forwarded
to their destinations unopened. It is also a fact that many returns
for publications sent abroad reach their destinations direct by mail
and not through the Exchange Service.

Many governmental and scientific establishments and individuals,
both in this country and abroad, have sought the aid of the Interna-
tional Exchange Service during the year in procuring, as gifts or
exchanges, certain especially desired publications. The correspond-
ence which this work entails upon the Exchange Service is consider-
able and is growing in volume from year to year. Sometimes infor-
mation collected by this Government, but not to be found in pub-
lished reports, is requested. In these instances the various govern-
mental bureaus furnish the desired data in typewritten form. As
an example of a request of this kind received during the year, a case
may be mentioned in which valuable statistics concerning blister
copper were supplied by the Bureau of the Census and the Bureau
of Mines for transmission to the high commissioner of the Common-
wealth of Australia for the use of his home Government. Another
request of this character which was complied with was one received
through the Department of State from the minister of public works
and mines of New Zealand for publications containing the laws and
regulations with respect to the boring, mining, and storage of petro-
leum in the United States. In this instance, while the Bureau of
Mines was in a position to furnish information on the mining of
petroleum on Indian reservations, it was necessary for the Institution
to write to the principal States having laws on the subject in question
in order to obtain the desired data. It may, however, be added in
this connection that the Bureau of Mines is engaged in collecting,
arranging, and annotating all the laws, both National and State,
relating to all branches of mining, including the petroleum industry,
and that a copy of this work, when issued, will be furnished the
Institution for presentation to the minister of public works.

The Department of State, in referring a communication from the
librarian of the Brazilian Press Association at Rio de Janeiro request-
ing aid in the establishment of a library in that city to be composed
entirely of the works of American writers, stated that while the
department itself had no facilities for obtaining such publications it
"dVOUY NOILNGIYLSIG YOS 3OIANSS SONVHOXY SHL APD GSAIZOSY AYLSINSHO Galnddy
JO SSSYONOD TVNOILYNYSLN| HLHOIZ 3HL JO SONIGSSOOUd SHL JO SSOVHOVd OOO‘S 4O NOILYOd 4O HdVYDOLOH

HE
ti

AVANYO

N
PORTUGAL

FA
Ha
AELr

Fravee me A] : | | Mite QO A

Er) VOL Fan
FRI

NB YOM
PAGE nee Fee B rane f Fran Tana zea Pranee BE AFRICA France

pene EE EY SS ee
' Sa | : s ALY

iVIVULSIT, :

RUSSIA

“

i

4

y
.

*| aLvd *ploday s Aiejas0ag—'e | 6| ‘Hodey ueluosyyiws

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

was naturally interested in having the more important works of
American writers, as well as the governmental documents con-
taining statistical information, placed within easy reach of our
neighbors in the Latin-American countries, and that it would be
gratifying to the department if the Smithsonian Institution
should find it practicable to send to the association such works and
statistics regarding science, literature, agriculture, industry, com-
merce, etc., as might seem suitable. The desire of the Brazilian
Press Association was brought to the attention of certain govern-
mental establishments and also of many scientific and literary organi-
zations throughout the United States. The majority of these organi-
zations gave the matter favorable attention, some of them sending
complete sets of their publications and adding the name of the Ameri-
can library to their lists to receive future issues. The Smithsonian
Institution, I need hardly add, contributed a selection of its own
publications. Altogether, more than 1,200 publications were received
and transmitted to the Brazilian Press Association through the Inter-
national Exchange Service as a nucleus for the proposed library.

The chief of the bureau of publications of the Department of
Agriculture and Forestry, Peking, China, while attending the Seven-
teenth International Dry Farming Congress as a delegate from his
Government, forwarded to this Institution, for distribution among
the various State agricultural experiment stations, a number of copies
of three issues of an agricultural journal published by his bureau,
with the request that such bulletins as the experiment stations might
issue from time to time be sent to his bureau in exchange. This
matter was brought to the attention of the various stations, most of
which complied with the request by sending copies of their bulletins
and listing the name of the Chinese Department of Agriculture to
receive their publications regularly in the future.

Many requests for documents are received through the various
exchange bureaus abroad, whose services are made use of by this
Institution in procuring foreign publications for correspondents in
this country. In this connection it may be mentioned that the Gov-
ernment of India invariably requires that requests from establish-
ments in this country for any extended series of Indian official docu-
ments be made through the Exchange Service. In such instances
the status of the society or establishment making the request is looked
into, and statistics and other information relative thereto are fur-

-mshed the Government of India with a recommendation, when
_ deemed advisable, that the desired documents be furnished.

The foregoing are only a few of the important instances in which

the Institution has aided foreign establishments in obtaining pub-
. lications, in pursuance of a policy of international helpfulness, which
44863°—sM 1918——5 '
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

is of benefit to the larger intellectual and economic interests of both
the United States and foreign countries. Many other requests of
similar nature have been received from correspondents in this country
and abroad.

The Institution continues to assist the. Library of Congress in com-
pleting its collections of foreign governmental documents.

Mention was made last year of the fact that packages containing
scientific and literary publications received from establishments and
individuals in the United States for transmission through the Ex-
change Service to miscellaneous addresses in the various Provinces of
the Union of South Africa were forwarded to certain governmental
establishments in those Provinces for distribution, and that the Govy-
ernment of the Union had been approached with a view to having
only one agency for the entire Union. It is now gratifying to state
that this request has been complied with, the Government Printing
Works at Pretoria having been designated to carry on the exchange
work. Packages received in the future for addresses in any of the
Provinces of the Union will therefore be transmitted to the Govern-
ment Printing Works for distribution. This change will effect a
saving to the Institution in freight charges, and will also, I have no
doubt, improve the service with South Africa. Ifa similar arrange-
ment could be made with the Commonwealth of Australia it would
have decided advantages over the present method of forwarding con-
signments to six different addresses in that Commonwealth for dis-
tribution. The matter is now being considered by the Speaker of the
House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, who is
also chairman of the library committee. The Institution has brought
to the attention of that official the advantages to be derived from
having one central exchange agency in Australia and has urged him
to use his best endeavors to have the matter favorably considered by
his Government.

The Egyptian Exchange Agency has been transferred from the
Egyptian Survey Department to the newly formed Government Pub-
lications Department, consignments for distribution in that country
now being forwarded in care of the Superintendent of the Govern-
ment Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo. It should be
stated as a matter of record in this connection that the businesslike
basis upon which the exchange service between Egypt and the United
States has been placed during the Survey Department’s five years’
connection therewith has resulted in the prompt delivery of packages
to correspondents in both countries.

A circular was received during the year from the Republic of
Mexico, stating that a Service of Exchanges had been established in
the Department of Public Works.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

67

Of the 2,587 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign bu-
reaus and agencies for distribution (an increase of 192 over 1912),
386 boxes contained full sets of United States official documents for
authorized depositories, and 2,201 were filled with departmental and
other publications for depositories of partial sets and for miscel-

laneous correspondents.

The number of boxes sent to each foreign

country and the dates of transmission are shown in the following

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries.

table:
a Number
Country. of boxes.
ARGENTINA ......-.---- 43
PASTESUTUENPIAS Snes = Sih 4) 99
BPLGIUME Ss. 255002. 05. 77
HS ORDVTA ea acic 2 Sess sie 5
PEROT ee seco laisse wie 42
BRITISH COLONIES..... 17
BRITISH GUIANA...-.... 5
ISURGNRIAS:. 2-22 o2e 6
(SOR Se a 7
(GitUd Oe Oeke 2 Se eee ea 28
GHINAGE Ue. S57 22S 5 18
COLOMBIA Oeics weit. <5 20
CWOSTAPRIGA 3 obec: 16
(Ghopey!\ 44h Se 7
DM NMAR RE 2. 2 ole 35
IG UADORe eke eo. o 6
Den art OE ey 13
SDAIN So eae SoS 230
GIANG Ye ia 422
GREAT BRITAIN AND 439

IRELAND.

(E101 0101 0} a a 19
GUATEMALA........... 6
Ve Oy fi ao vf
FIONDURAS!2... S80 9224) 6
PUN GARY 3. 252. ssc 45
UNDE A ee aug Be 46

Date of transmission.

July 24, Aug. 24, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr,
3, June 4, 20, 1913.

July 10, Aug. 7, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Dec. 11, 1912; Jan. 8, Feb. 5, Mar. 12,
Apr. 9, May 14, June 11, 20, 1913.

July 6, 27, Aug. 17, 31, Sept. 20, Oct. 12, Nov. 15, Dec. 7, 1912; Jan. 11,
Feb. 1, Mar. 8, 29, Apr. 12, May 3, June 7, 28, 1913.

Aug. 28, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 27, Apr. 3, June 9, 1913.

July 24, Aug. 24, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, Dec. 19, 1912; Jan. 16, Feb.
26, Apr. 3, June 5, 20, 1913.

July 6, 13, Aug. 3, 10, 17, Sept. 7, 21, Nov. 16, 1912; Feb. 8, 15, Mar. 22,
29, Apr. 18, May 2, 24, June 6, 27, 1913.

Sept. 19, Oct. 31, 1912; Jan. 22, Feb. 28, June 16, 1913.

Jan. 6, Feb. 27, Apr. 5, June 10, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 13, May 5, June 20, 1913.

July 24, Aug. 24, Sept. 25, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr. 3, June
5, 20, 1913.

July 30, 31, Aug. 31, Sept. 19, Nov. 8, Dec. 2, 13, 1912; Jan. 3, 29, Feb.
1, Mar. 1, 6, 13, Apr. 29, May 5, June 10, 20, 1913.

Aug. 28, Oct. 23, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr. 3, June 9, 20, 1913.

July 24, Aug. 28, Sept. 26, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr. 3,
June 9, 20, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 13, May 5, June 20, 1913.

July 20, Aug. 15, Sept. 19, Oct. 17, Nov. 18, Dec. 12, 1912; Jan. 16, Feb.
14, Mar. 20, Apr. 15, May 21, June 24, 1913.

Aug. 28, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 29, Feb. 27, May 1, June 9, 1913.

Aug. 10, Sept. 14, Oct. 12, Nov. 23, Dec. 28, 1912; Feb. 8, Mar. 22, Apr.
22, May 31, June 25, 1913.

July 11, 25, Aug. 15, 29, Sept. 19, Oct. 3, 24, Nov. 13, Dec. 5, 26, 1912;
Jan. 16, 30, Feb. 13, Mar. 6, 27, Apr. 10, 24, May 22, June 19, 20, 1913.

July 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, Aug. 6, 18, 20, 27, Sept. 3, 10, 17, 24, Oct. 1, 8, 15,
22, 29, Nov. 7, 19, 26, Dec. 3, 10, 17, 24, 1912; Jan. 7, 14, 21, 28, Feb.
4, 11, 19, 25, Mar. 11, 18, 25, Apr. 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, May 6, 13, 20, 27,
June 3, 10, 17, 24, 1913.

July 6, 13, 20, 27, Aug. 3, 10, 17, 24, 31, Sept. 7, 14, 21, 28, Oct. 5, 12, 19, 26,
Nov. 5, 9, 16, 23, 30, Dec. 7, 14, 21, 1912; Jan. 4, 11, 18, 25, Feb. 1, 8, 15,
21, Mar. 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, Apr. 4, 11, 18, 25, May 2, 9, 16, 24, 31, June 6,
14, 21, 27, 1913.

Aug. 31, Oct. 31, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 27, Apr. 5, June 18, 20, 1913.

Aug. 28, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 29, Feb. 27, May 1, June 9, 1913.

July 30, Sept. 26, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 26, Apr. 3, June 7, 20, 1913.

Aug. 28, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 29, Feb. 27, May 1, June 9, 1913.

July 10, Aug. 7, Sept. 11, Oct. 9, Nov. 20, Dec. 11, 1912; Jan. 8, Feb. 5,
Mar. 12, Apr. 9, May 14, June 11, 20, 1913.

July 6, 13, 20, 27, Aug. 3, 10, 17, 24, 31, Sept. 7, 14, 21, 26, Oct. 5, 12, 26,
Nov. 16, 30, Dec. 7, 14, 1912; Jan. 4, 18, 25, Feb. 8, 15, Mar. 1, 22, 29,
Apr. 11, May 24, June 6, 27, 1913.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Number

Country. of boxes.

RAD VA eee cc esc be senses 107
AMEAIC AR cal cccce sss 6
DIPON Gee oe ccce cases 61
ROR WAG se Sales ae ae 5
MUIBERIASS. 2686. cobs se 5
LOURENGO MARQUEZ. . 2
MANITOBA): occ tdinee5 ul
IMSURICO fee ch cclslee'cras «2 7
MONTENEGRO.......--- 2
NETHERLANDS........- 53
NEWFOUNDLAND.....-- 3
New SouTH WALES... 31
NEw ZEALAND........- 28
INTCARAGUA sec cscacesss 4
IS (ORE 7): rg =e ge ee 35
ONTARIONSS o.uo- bees. ee 7
IBALESTING 32 os o0s's2.<\- 8
IBARAGUAYE. jue owiack 22 6
PRU R amet cteetenicesce 18
IRORTUGAL, oct. secu 23
QTMBHCHE! seek 2 sc 2% if
QUEENSLAND.....--.-- 20
IRIOUMANTAL 2004) 125 . 2 9
MUSSUAUEEE 2 oes e ewe cco 86
SAMVADORS SE oo ctcc6 2: i
Sion a 14
DAUM tes SOMES oD oe cis 6
SoutH AUSTRALIA..... 23
SPAIN EU (3s tse weicslec'n « 35
SWEDEN <2 .ccos's2c e552 65
SWITZERLAND.......... 64
YAR eee). cise s 4
TASMANIA O86 fe) Sous 14
STERINT DAD oer eee a 5
TRUR KY is. ies Soe oe 12
UNION QF SovuTH 28

AFRICA

Date of transmission.

July 1, Aug. 10, Sept. 12, Oct. 12, Nov. 25, Dec. 28, 1912; Feb. 8, Mar.
22, Apr. 22, May 31, June 25, 1913.

Sept. 17, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 30, Feb. 28, May 1, June 16, 1913.

July 20, Aug. 23, Sept. 20, Oct. 17, Nov. 25, Dec. 20, 1912; Jan. 21, Feb.
20, Mar. 20, Apr. 17, June 20, 1913.

Sept. 17, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 28, May 1, June 28, 1913.

Sept. 18, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 28, May 1, June 16, 1913.

Feb. 27, June 28, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 18, May 5, June 20, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 13, May 5, June 20, 1913.

Feb. 27, June 30, 1913.

July 9, 30, Aug. 13, 27, Sept. 10, Oct. 8, Nov. 18, Dec. 10, 1912; Jan. 14,
29, Feb. 11, Mar. 11, 25, Apr. 8, May 6, 27, June 17, 20, 1913.

July 31, 1912; Mar. 29, June 30, 1913.

July 25, Aug. 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 17, Nov. 23, 1912; Jan. 15, Feb. 20, Mar.
26, Apr. 16, May 26, June 23, 1913.

July 25, Aug. 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, 1912; Jan. 15, 28, Feb. 20,
Mar. 26, Apr. 16, May 26, June 23, 1913.

Noy. 30, 1912; Feb. 27, May 1, June 9, 1913.

July 20, Aug. 15, Sept. 20, Oct. 17, Nov. 18, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 14, Mar.
20, Apr. 15, May 21, June 24, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 13, May 5, June 20, 1913.

Feb. 28, May 31, 1913.

July 24, Aug. 27, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 27, Apr. 3, June 7, 1913.

July 24, Aug. 24, Sept. 25, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr. 3, June
5, 20, 1913.

July 20, Aug. 15, Sept. 20, Oct. 17, Nov. 18, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 14, Mar.
20, Apr. 15, May 21, June 30, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 31, Dec. 2, 1912; Feb. 1, Mar. 13, May 5, June 20, 1913.

July 25, Aug. 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, 1912; Jan. 15, Feb. 20, Mar.
26, Apr. 16, May 26, June 23, 1913.

Aug. 28, Sept. 27, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 31, Feb. 27, Apr. 5, June 10, 1913.

July 12, Aug. 8, Sept. 10, Oct. 10, Nov. 21, Dec. 21, 1912; Jan. 9, Feb. 6,
Mar. 13, Apr. 10, May 15, June 12, 20, 1913.

Aug. 28, Novy. 30, 1912; Feb. 27, May 1, June 9, 1913.

July 30, Aug. 29, Sept. 27, 1912; Jan.3, Feb. 27, Apr. 5, June 10, 20, 1913.

Sept. 18, Nov. 8, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 28, May 1, June 18, 1913.

July 25, Aug. 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 17, Nov. 23, 1912; Jan. 15, Feb. 20, Mar.
26, Apr. 16, May 26, June 23, 1913.

Aug. 10, Sept. 12, Oct. 26, Nov. 30, Dec. 28, 1912; Feb. 8, Mar. 22, May 3,
31, June 25, 1913.

July 11, Aug. 8, Sept. 12, Oct. 10, Nov. 21, Dec. 12, 1912; Jan. 9, Feb. 6,
Mar. 13, Apr. 10, May 15, June 12, 20, 1913.

July 6, 27, Aug. 17, 31, Sept. 20, Oct. 12, Nov. 15, Dec. 7, 28, 1912; Jan.
11, Feb. 1, Mar. 8, 29, Apr. 12, May 3, June 7, 28, 1913.

Sept. 18, 1912; Jan. 30, Apr. 26, June 10, 1913.

July 20, 1912; Feb. 8, Mar. 8, 29, Apr. 25, May 24, June 27, 1913.

Sept. 17, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 28, May 1, June 28, 1913.

July 31, Aug. 31, Sept. 18, Oct. 31, Nov. 8, 1912; Jan. 3, Feb. 26, 28,
Apr. 5, June 10, 1913.

July 31, Aug. 29, Sept. 26, Oct. 30, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 22, 28, Feb. 27,
Apr. 5, May 10, June 20, 1913.

ee

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Country. plies Date of transmission.

URUGUAY A Seite oe: 19 | July 24, Aug. 28, Sept. 26, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, 1912; Jan. 18, Feb. 26, Apr,
3, June 6, 20, 1913.

VENEZUELA........--.. 16 | July 24, Aug. 28, Sept. 26, Nov. 30, 1912; Jan. 29, Feb. 26, Apr. 3,
June 7, 1913.

IMICTORIAC2 cS) UU. sas < 31 | July 2, Aug. 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 18, Nov. 23, 1912; Jan. 15, Feb. 20, Mar.
26, Apr. 16, May 26, June 23, 1913.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA.. 37 | July 6, 18, Aug. 17, 24, Sept. 7, 14, 21, Oct. 12, Nov. 5, 16, 30, Dec. 7, 14,
1912; Jan. 4, 18, 25, Feb. 8, 15, Mar. 1, 29, Apr. 11, 25, May 24, June6,
27, 1913.

WINDWARD AND LEE- 5 ; Oct. 31, Nov. 30, 1912; Feb. 28, May 1, June 16, 1913.

WARD ISLANDS.

A part of the contents of a consignment forwarded under date of
May 14 (boxes Nos. 1640-1646 and 7896) was damaged by water
while in transit to the Central Statistical Commission in Vienna.
Steps will be taken to duplicate as many of the damaged publications
as are available for distribution.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations, and under the authority
of the resolutions of Congress of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901,
setting apart a certain number of documents for exchange with for-
eign countries, there are now sent regularly to depositories abroad
56 full sets of United States official publications and 36 partial sets.
During the year the Province of Bombay and the Corporation of
Glasgow were added to the list of recipients of full sets; and Finland,
British Guiana, the Free City of Liibeck, and the Province of Madras
to the list receiving partial sets. While Finland and the Province
of Madras were added to the list of countries receiving partial sets
in November, 1912, the Library of Congress has, so far as it was
possible to do so, completed the series from 1902 to that time.

The recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AusTRIA: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

Baven: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the Grand Duchy
of Baden.)

Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Bretcium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BomsBay: Secretary to the Government, Bombay.

Brazii: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CuizE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

Curna: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CotomBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cupa: Secretaria de Hstado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),

Habana.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Guascow: City’ Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Hartt: Secrétairerie d’Htat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

Inp1a: Department of Education (Books), Government of India, Calcutta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

ITaty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliogréfico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de Ja Seine.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PortTuGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

QuEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg. ‘

Saxony: K6nigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

ServiA: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Mtrangéres, Belgrade.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TuRKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Union oF SoutH ArFrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTTEMBERG: K6nigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: K. Ministerium fiir Hlsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

BouiviA: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.

BRITISH CoLUMBIA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

BrRiTIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

BuuteartA: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

CrYLoN: United States Consul, Colombo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Heyer: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Chancery of Governor, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hameoura: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

LOURENGO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

LUeeck: President of the Senate.

MADRAS, PROVINCE OF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matra: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

MonTeNEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NorRTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RoumaAntiA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND Ovupi: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

VIENNA: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS.

The interparliamentary exchange of official journals is carried on
under a resolution of the Congress approved March 4, 1909, setting
aside such number as might be required, not exceeding 100 copies,
of the daily issue of the Congressional Record for exchange, through
the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, with the legislative cham-
bers of such foreign Governments as might agree to send to the
United States current copies of their parliamentary records or like
publications. The purpose of this resolution was to enable the in-
stitution, on the part of the United States, to more fully carry into
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

effect the provisions of the convention concluded at Brussels in 1886,
providing for the immediate exchange of the official journal.

The Governments of the Province of Buenos Aires, Liberia, and
Queensland have entered into this exchange during the year. A
complete list of the Governments to which the Congressional Record
is now sent is given below:

Argentine Republic. Italy.

Australia. Liberia.

Austria. New South Wales.
Baden. New Zealand.
Belgium. Portugal.

Brazil. Prussia.

Buenos Aires, Province of. Queensland.
Canada. Roumania.

Cuba. Russia.

Denmark. Servia.

France. Spain,

Great Britain, Switzerland.
Greece. Transvaal.
Guatemala. Union of South Africa.
Honduras. Uruguay.
Hungary. Western Australia.

There are, therefore, at present 32 countries with which the imme-
diate exchange is conducted. To some of these countries, however,
two copies of the Congressional Record are sent, one to the upper
and one to the lower House of Parliament—the total number trans-
mitted being 37.

RULES GOVERNING THE TRANSMISSION OF EXCHANGES.

The circular containing the rules governing the transmission of
exchanges has been revised, and is here reproduced for the informa-
tion of those who may wish to make use of the facilities of the serv-
ice in the forwarding of publications.

In effecting the distribution of its first publications abroad, the Smithsonian
Institution established relations with certain foreign scientific societies and libra-
ries, by means of which it was enabled to materially assist institutions and indi-
viduals of this country in the transmission of their publications abroad, and also
foreign societies and individuals in distributing their publications in the United
States.

In recent years the Smithsonian Institution has been charged with the duty
of conducting the official Exchange Bureau of the United States Government,
through which the publications authorized by Congress are exchanged for those
of other Governments; and by a formal treaty it acts as intermediary between
the learned bodies and scientific and literary societies of the contracting States
for the reception and transmission of their publications.

Attention is called to the fact that this is an international and not a domestic
exchange service, and that it is designed to facilitate exchanges between the
United States and other countries only. As exchanges from domestic sources
for addresses in Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, and other territory

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73

subject to the jurisdiction of the United States do not come within the designa-
tion ‘“‘international,” they are not accepted for transmission.

Packages prepared in accordance wilh the rules enumerated below will be
received by the Smithsonian Institution from persons or institutions of learning
in the United States and forwarded to their destinations abroad through its
own agents or through the various exchange bureaus in other countries. The
Smithsonian agents and many of these bureaus will likewise receive from corre-
spondents in their countries such publications for addresses in the United States
and territory subject to its jurisdiction as may be delivered to them under rules
similar to those prescribed herein, and will forward them to Washington, after
which the Institution will undertake their distribution.

On the receipt of a consignment from a domestic source it is assigned a
“record number,” which number is placed on each package contained therein.
After the packages have been recorded they are packed in boxes with packages
from other senders intended for the same countries, and are forwarded by fast
freight to the bureaus or agencies abroad which have undertaken to distribute
exchanges in those countries. To Great Britain and Germany shipments are
made weekly; to all other countries at intervals not exceeding one month.

Consignments from abroad for correspondents in the United States and its
outlying possessions are distributed by mail under frank.

The Institution assumes no responsibility in the transmission of packages
intrusted to its care, but at all times uses its best endeavors to forward exchanges
to their destinations as promptly as possible.

RULES.

The rules governing the Smithsonian International Hxchange Service are as
follows:

1. Consignments from correspondents in the United States containing pack-
ages for transmission abroad should be addressed ‘“ Smithsonian Institution,
International Exchanges, Washington, D. C.”

2. In forwarding a consignment the sender should mail a letter to the Insti-
tution, stating by what route it is being shipped, and the number of boxes or
parcels which it comprises. A list giving the name and address of each con-
signee should also be furnished.

3. Packages should be legibly addressed, using, when practicable, the lan-
guage of the country to which they are to be forwarded. In order to avoid
any possible dispute as to ownership, names of individuals should be omitted
from packages intended for societies and other establishments.

4. Packages should be securely wrapped in stout paper and, when necessary,
tied with strong twine. Cardboard should be used in some instances to protect
plates from crumpling.

5. Letters are not permitted in exchange packages

6. If donors desire acknowledgments, packages may contain receipt forms to
be signed and returned by the establishment or individual addressed. Should
publications be desired in exchange, a request to that effect may be printed on
the receipt form or on the package.

7. Exchanges intended for transmission abroad must be delivered to the
Smithsonian Institution with all charges to Washington prepaid.

8. The work carried on by the International Exchange Service is not in any
sense of a commercial nature, but is restricted to the transmission of publica-
tions sent as exchanges or donations. Books ordered through the trade are
therefore necessarily excluded.

9. Specimens are not accepted for distribution, except when permission has
been obtained from the Institution,
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARH
TRANSMITTED.

The following is a list of the bureaus or agencies through which exchanges

are transmitted:

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, vid Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Reconquista 538,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

Azorrs, via Portugal.

Bretctum: Service Belge des Hchanges Internationaux, Rue du Musée 5, Brussels,

BoniviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutagdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritisuH CoLonrrs: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.*

British GuIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BULGARIA: Institutions Scientifiques de 8. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

CotomBiA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes, Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Heyer: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo.

France: Service Francais des Hchanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, vid Denmark.

GUADELOUPE, via France.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

GUINEA, Via Portugal.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, Vici-utea 80, Buda-
pest. ;

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KkorrA: His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s Residency-General, Seoul.

1 This method is employed for communicating with several of the British colonies with
which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.

——
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. fits

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LouURENGO MARQUEZ: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

LUXEMBURG, via Germany.

MADAGASCAR, Vid France.

MADEIRA, vid Portugal.

MONTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

MOZAMBIQUE, vid Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de 1’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

NEw GUINEA, via Netherlands.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEW ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NIcARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Prru: Oficina de Reparto, Deposito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PoRTUGAL: Servigo de Permutagdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lis-
bon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Seec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.

RoOuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Russta: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

SALyADoR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Srervia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SUMATRA, vid Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwirzerRLaAnp: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Wédérale
Centrale, Berne.

Syrta: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Union or SoutH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvevuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Vicror1a: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.

Respectfully submitted.
F, W. True,
Assistant Secretary in Charge
of Library and EKachanges.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

SEPTEMBER 27, 1913.
APPENDIX 4,
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report of the opera-
tians of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1913.

The general appropriation made by Congress for the improve-
ment and maintenance during that year was $100,000. The cost of
food for the animals was $20,235, which is somewhat less than
during the previous year, being due to the decline in prices of forage
from the extremely high rates which then prevailed. The expendi-
tures for upkeep were greater than usual, especially as to out-door
cages, inclosures, and fences.

ACCESSIONS.

During the previous year, owing to the necessity of providing a
fireproof building for the central heating plant and making certain
urgently needed small improvements, only a small sum was used for
the purchase of animals. During the present year several important
animals have been added, including a pair of young African ele-
phants, three dromedaries, a pair of cheetahs, several species of
gazelles, and other animals, purchased from the Government Zoologi-
cal Garden at Giza, Egypt. These were engaged some time before
the end of the fiscal year, but, as explained: below, they did not finally
reach the park until a little after the end of the period covered by
this report.

Seven ostriches from southern California were purchased, and
two moose, a male and a female, were obtained by exchange from
the Rocky Mountains National Park in Alberta, Canada. The ac-
cessions, with the animals from Giza, included 15 species not previ-
ously represented in the collection.

The total amount expended for purchase and transportation of
animals was $6,900.

Mammals and birds born and hatched in the park numbered 78
and included polar, grizzly, and Alaskan brown bears, alpaca, llama,
American tapir, chamois, harnessed antelope, deer of several species,
with some other mammals and various birds.

76

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ane

EXCHANGES.

The number of exchanges was smaller than usual. As already
mentioned, two moose were received from the Rocky Mountains
National Park and several animals from dealers.

ANIMALS FROM GIZA.

In the latter part of March, 1913, an offer of some desirable ani-
mals was received from the Government Zoological Garden at Giza,
Egypt. This offer included two young African elephants, a male
and a female, and a number of other less important animals. The
two elephants were engaged for the park, together with three drome-
daries and two Arabian baboons. As the Egyptian authorities
required the animals to be accepted at their gardens, it was thought
advisable to send the head keeper of the park to receive them and
accompany them during transportation. He left Washington May
15, 1912, and arrived at Giza on June 19. On his arrival he found
that several other desirable animals were available there and was
authorized by cable to secure them for the park, so that there were
altogether 21 animals in the shipment. It was necessary to go to
London to arrange for transportation, and on the way from there
to Egypt the zoological gardens at Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Ant-
werp; Cologne, and Rome were visited.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 19138.

MAMMALS.

Grivet monkey (Cercopithecus sabeus) — 1 , Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) —___ 2
Green monkey (Cercopithecus  calli- European brown bear (Ursus arctos)__ 2

TOOT ces ee ee 1 | Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorfii) _____ 1
Mona monkey (Cercopithecus mona) —~ 2 | Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli)__________ 1
Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana) __ 1 | Alaskan brown bear (Ursus gyas)——-~ 3
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligino- Hybrid bear (Ursus gyas-arctos)_____ 1

RO 222252206 es ee ee 2 | Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _______ 2
Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus) ~---~ 1 | Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) __ 1
Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomol- Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis)_______ 3

G05) Joh. a 3 | Black bear (Ursus americanus) —~-_____ 9
Pig-tailed monkey (Macacus nemestri- Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus)___ 2

PERS) oe PU ES EA a 4 | Malay bear (Ursus malayanus) ~~ _____ 2
Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesuws)__-__ 16 | Sloth bear (Melursus wrsinus)_ ~~ _____ 1
Brown macaque (Macacus arctoides) _—_ 8 | Kinkajou (Cercoleptes caudivolwulus) — al
Japanese monkey (Macacus fuscatus) _- 8 | Cacomistle (Bassariscus astuwta)______ i
Moor monkey (Macacus maurus) ~~~ 1 | Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)_____ 5
Black ape (Cynopithecus niger) —-~--__ tt} Raccoon) (Procyon loro) 2 19
Chacma \(Papio porcarius) ——.--_-___— 1 | American badger (Tawvidea tagvus)____ 2
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) — al | Common skunk (Mephitis putida) _____ 4
Mandrill (Papio maimon)_-_--_______ 3 | American marten (Mustela americana) — 2
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi)_ 1 | Fisher (Mustela pennantii) _-________ 1
White-throated capuchin (Cebus hypo- Mink (Putorius vison) 22222 =e eee 5

CSREES) a pet Common ferret (Putorius putorius) ___ 1
Brown monkey (Cebus fatuellus)— ~~ Black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes)_ 2

Durukuli (Nyctipithecus trivirgatus) —- North American otter (Lutra cana-
Ruffed lemur (Lemur varius) _---_--

Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)---_--

WNNrRF
78

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

Animals in the collection June 80, 1913—Continued.
MAMMALS—Continued.

Dino) (Canis: dingy) ---=—- 2 ee
Gray wolf (Canis occidentalis) ______-~
Black wolf (Canis occidentalis) ___~~~
Coyote (Canis latrans)__-___--------
Woodhouse’s coyote (Canis frustror) ——
Red fox (Vulpes pennsylwanicus) —~----
Switt fox (Vulpes velow) —-—~__--___--
Arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus) —-—~-.-----
Gray fox (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) —
Spotted hyena (Hyena crocuta)—~---~-
African palm civet (Viverra civetta) —-
Common genet (Genetta genctta) ___--
pudam lionk (Melis veo!) 222 ae
Kilimanjaro lion (I’elis leo sabakiensis)
SOM MCHICLAS KUL NTS)) soe Ee ae
Cougar (Felis oregonensis hippolestes) —
waecuar ies, oncd) 2 —
Leopard (Felis pardus) —__-__.____-_--
Black leopard (Felis pardus) —~-~-----~~
MeLveMHelss (SEFUCL) ae Seo Pa Le
Ocelot (Hetis pardalis) ----220 =
Canada lynx (Lyn# canadensis) —~-~-~~-~
Piva. (UND Lne Us) 22 eco ee
Spotted lynx (Lynx rufus texrensis) ~~
Florida lynx (Lyn@ rufus floridanus) —-
Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias stelleri)—
California sea lion (Zalophus califor-

LUNI OR Lee ae a ee a gl a ee
Northern fur seal (Callotaria alascana) —
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) —-~----~~-
Fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) ~-_----~--
Western fox squirrel (Sciurus ludovi-

CLETUS) ee a ee
Gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) ~~~
Black squirrel (Sciwrus carolinensis) ~~
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
pation esa uUinnels ceo oli ese
Prairie dog (Cyomys ludovicianus) ~~~
Woodchuck (Arctomys mona) —~--_~~
Albino woodchuck (Arctomys monaz)_—
Black woodchuck (Arctomys mona) _~
Alpine marmot (Arctomys marmotta) —
American beaver (Castor canadensis ) ~~
Coypu (Myocastor coypus) —--_--------
Hutia-conga (Capromys pilorides) ——-~
Indian porcupine (Hystrix leucura) —~
Canada porcupine (Hrethizon dorsa-

ALS eee eee rat. I
Canada porcupine (Hrethizon dorsatus)

CEN Oy WS (6 LL Seka SS a a ape
Western porcupine (Hrethizon epixan-

FAP TE emp — ee a

Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@) —-_
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) _
Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta prym-

AUGOUG DIE) oe a a
Paca (Oelogenys paca) 2-4 32k
Guinea pig (Cavia cutleri) _-__-_-_-____-_
Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis pata-

GONE) eee a he ea eee ee
Capybara (Hydrocherus capybara) ----
Domestic rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) ~~~
Cape hyrax (Procavia capensis) —~---~-~

BEN OR HEHEHE NW HEPWHEHRNNRFPHEONN ROWE ED

Oo be bo

nS
om

20

NNNrFNHNF Rw OrY

=

3
1
37
1

Indian elephant (Hlephas mazinus)-—
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus americanus) _—
Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi) -------
Zebra-donkey hybrid (Equus grevyi-

88) Lense SoU Lees See eee
Grant’s zebra (Hquus burchelli granti)
Collared peccary (Dicotyles angulatus)-_
Wild boar ‘(Sus scrofa) 22-2 eee
Northern wart hog (Phacocherus afri-

Hippopotamus

phibius 2 a ee ee ee
Guanaco (Lama huanachus)——~---_-~
Llama | (Lame glane) 22
Alpaca (ama 'pac0s) 22222.
Vicugna (Lama viciugnd) 2-2
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus)_—
Muntjac (Cervulus muntjac) ——-==—-==
Sambar deer (Cervus aristotelis) _____
Philippine deer (Cervus philippinus) ——
Hog deer (Cervus porcinus) —_—~-_-__
Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucelit) —
Axis deer) (Cervus anis)\=2 ee
Japanese deer (Cervus sika) -___-____
Red deer (Cervus elaphus) -—---___-_—
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Fallow deer (Cervus dama)——_________
Moose (Alces americanus) —______-____
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus) —
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) ——__-~
Columbian black-tailed deer (Odocoi-

leus. columbianus) —_ 22 eee
Cuban deer (Odocoileus sp.)---------
Coke’s hartebeest (Bubalis cokei) ---_~
Blessbok (Damaliscus albifrons)—~--_~
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) _—
Defassa water buck (Cobus defassa) —_
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus)——_—_~
Congo harnessed antelope (T'rage-

laphis orctus) eee
Chamois (Rupicapra tragus)--~---~--~
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlaicus) —------~
Common goat (Capra hireus) —_----___
Angora goat (Capra hireus)——_____=_
Barbary sheep (Ovis tragelaphus)—--~
Barbados sheep (Ovis  aries-trage-

laphus) ~~. S224 See
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis)—-------_
East African buffalo (Buffelus~ neu-

(Hippopotamus  am-

Yak (Poéphagus griunniens) ---------~-
American bison (Bison americanus) ——
Hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus)—~
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) ------~
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) —----~~
Bennett’s wallaby (Macropus ruficollis

bennetti) 2.224252 ee eS eee
Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsupi-

Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsupi-
alis) (sibinoz2202 ee ee ee
Common wombat (Phascolomys mitch-
CUT) ee a eee

et Ot

Done

bo

=
BEN RADARDDWOROHPNHFNWNWOWH

=

-_
DWH Hee ee

=
Ol OL OD Ww bs

4
me OD

a
Go Oo oo OT OI

=

to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Animals in the collection June 30, 1918—Continued.

European blackbird (Merula merula)_
Mocking bird (Mimus polyglottos)_—_~
Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) —~~-~~
Brown thrasher (Tozrostoma rufus) ——~
Japanese robin (Liothriv luteus) _----~
White-cheeked bulbul (Pycnonotus

VEU CGUCMMIS ee ee Ae
Black bulbul (Pycnonotus pyge@us) ———~
Laughing thrush (Garrulaz _ leuco-

Cordon-bleu (Hstrelda phenicotis) —~---
Magpie finch (Spermestes fringilloides) —
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) —_
Zebra finch (Amadina castanotis) ~---_-
Black-headed fineh (Munia atricapilla) —
Three-colored finch (Munia malacca) —-
White-headed finch (Munia maja) —--~
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) ~~
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora)——__--
White Java sparrow (Munia oryzi-

EEL) as I Ee
Sharp-tailed grass finch (Poéphila acu-

PA NCEUIL GLE) reson ee mie
Silver-bill finch (Aidemosyne cantans)~—
Chestnut-breasted finch (Donacola cas-

LAP /KAORT HOG HEE) SORES Se
Bearded finch (Spermophila sp.) —~-----~
Napoleon weaver (Pyromeclana afr) —~
Madagascar weaver (foudia madagas-

COMLCAURER) ere eek
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)___~
Whydah weaver (Vidua paradisea) ~~~
Painted bunting (Passerina ciris)—~___

Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria  cu-
GARTERS SS ee nee
Rose-breasted grosbeak (Zamelodia lud-
SEE OAT) UR ETE PSE a gn
Common cardinal (Cardinalis cardi-
ECULES)) ee

SIskin | (Spmus, spinws),——__
Saffron finch (Sycalis flaveola)_-_____
European goldfinch (Carduelis elegans) —
Yellow-hammer (Hmberiza citrinella)_
Common canary (Serinus canarius)—__
Linnet (Linota cannabina) ___---__--
Bullfinch (Pyrrhula europea) -__-_____
Cowbird (Molothrus ater) _--________
Glossy starling (Lamprotornis cauda-

LS) ese ere eC

CAT) ai ned ag ee
European raven (Corvus corar)_____~
American raven (Corvus corar sinu-

CUAL S)\ eer eae ee Ee ee
Common crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-

CEP YS) bhp ESS pe Ope ap
Green jay (Xanthoura luruosa)—_____
White-throated jay (Garrulus leucotis) —
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) _____
American magpie (Pica pica hudson-

PETE) RRs Sis ES A ESL ES ENN
Red-billed magpie (Urocissa occipitalis) —
Piping crow (Gymnorhina tibicen) -___

BIRDS.
1 | Yellow tyrant (Pitangus derbianus) _——
1 | Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) --___
1 | Yellow-breasted toucan (Rhamphastos
i CORINGTUS) 222% 2 Be
10 | Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua ga-
‘ LONE) pe ASCE
1 | White cockatoo (Cacatua alba)_---__
1 | Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatua lead-
Dea@tert) ooo ees oe
2 | Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatua gymnopis)
4 | Roseate cockatoo (Cacatua  roseica-
Pilla), See ak oe ae ee
7 | Gang-gang cockatoo (Callocephalon ga-
8 Leatauny) 2 Ee is
2 | Yellow and blue macaw (Ara ara-
10 TOUUIVE GY ao eo ah BS SEN
4 | Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara
7 PUGDGCOO)) Se vo ep
6 | Red and blue macaw (Ara chlorop-
9 GOr@) 6 222 oko i
6 | Great green macaw (Ara militaris)___
13 | Mexican conure (Conurus holochlorus)_
Carolina paroquet (Conuropsis caroli-
12 NENStS)! Bein PE oN
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
2 | Orange-winged amazon (Amazona ama-
12 20ntCO) Base e es ie
Porto Rican amazon (Amazona_ vit-
6 td) ete ek. eee
2 | Yellow-shouldered amazon (Amazona
4 Ochropterd) 20) ah
Yellow-fronted amazon (Amazona ochro-
a cephala). 222222 eee
8 | Red-fronted amazon (Amazona rhodo-
28 COrYth A) accel ee
1 | Yellow-headed amazon (Amazona_ le-
vaillantt).—-—.L  . 2  ee
8 | Blue-fronted amazon (Amazona_ @s-
TVG) Be eae Se
1 | Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) _—
Banded parrakeet (Palwornis fasciata) —
1 | Alexandrine parrakeet (Pale@ornis alex-
5 UII) | Na
19 | Rosella parrakeet (Platycercus exim-
2 MUGS) rte Bie aT IN UA kis RT
1 | Love bird (Agapornis pullaria) -_---_-___
26 | Green parrakeet (Loriculus sp.)----__
4 | Shell parrakeet (Melopsittacus uwndu-
1 LOE) NE ne 2) Ta
1 | Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Arctic horned owl (Bubo virginianus
1 subarcticus), 22 oe See ee Ee ees
Screech owl (Otus asio) 222223 e3e
2) |) Barréd owl (Stria varia) 2222 ee
1 | Barn owl (Aluco pratincola) --_--_-_-__~
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) ——-~
2 | Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) _
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-
1 cephalus) alascanus) 2225 - eeeeee
1 | Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) —--__
2 | Harpy eagle (Thrasaétus harpyia)—-_~
3 | Chilian eagle (Geranoaétus melanoleu-
CUS) a oe 2 ee a
2 | Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coro-
2 TUS) oa ae at ae a
2 |! Red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus)_

79

olive} th bo bo

Ne Oo Re

1

BH HH

aren
80

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Animals in the collection June 80, 1918—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

Wenezueglan hawk 2 Se) te. suey a oe
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway) ------
Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) —--
South American condor (Sarcorham-

TALS) (OT UD AUS) el ee eee
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

MINUS) eee eee ee ee Ee ee
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus) --------
Cinereous vulture (Vultur monachus) —
Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnop-

terus )
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) -—----
Black vulture (Catharista wrubi)—----
King vulture (Gypagus papa) —-------
Red-billed pigeon (Columba filaviros-

TESS) emai A Re RR
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilia) —_
Collared turtle dove (Turtur risorius) —
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) ~--~
Victoria crowned pigeon (Gouwra vic-

PAO P AA) emi ts ke A
Purplish guan (Penelope purpurascens) —
Crested curassow (Cra# alector) —--~~
Mexican curassow (Craz globicera) —--
Daubenton’s curassow (Craxz dauben-

EOTED ae eee es eas OS SS
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-

DOSEAIS)), re eee
Peafow!] (Pawo cristata) __-__---_-_-=--_
Jungle fowl (Gallus bankiva)--------
English pheasant (Phasianus colchi-

GTR) pal ep ep ae
Reeves’s pheasant (Phasianus reevest) —
Golden pheasant (Thaumalea picta) —-~
Silver pheasant (Huplocamus nycthe-

European quail (Coturnia communis) _—
Hungarian partridge (Perdiz perdiz) —-
Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus)_—~--__~
Mountain quail (Oreortyx picta) ~~~
Sealed quail (Callipepla squamata)___
California quail (Lophortyz califor-

nica)
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyx gambeli) —-
Massena quail (Cyrtonyx montezume@) _—
Purple gallinule (Porphyrio c@rulea)_
Black-backed gallinule (Porphyrio me-

VOROCUS) wee ee ee eee eee eee
Martinique gallinule (Jonornis martini-

PAVE) espe ce ei
Florida gallinule (Gallinula galeata) _-
American coot (Fulica americana) _—_-~
Flightless rail (Ocydromus australis) —
Common cariama (Cariama cristata)—
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) -—
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) ——
Sandhill crane (Grus mexicana) —-_--~
Australian crane (Grus australasiana) —~
Huropean crane (Grus cinerea) ~-----_-
Sarus crane (Grus antigone)--------~
Indian white crane (Grus_ leucoge-

I ONUIUB)) es ee oe a ee eee
Ruff (Machetes pugnar) ~~~

1

WDNWHHEe HH NHERHE OAWNOR NNR NNO

rer. moc

bo

na

tb

RPNRPNNAee

Black-crowned night heron (Nycticoragr

nycticoram nevius) —--------L 225s
Little blue heron (Florida ce@rulea) _-~
Reddish egret (Dichromanassa rufes-

Cens), 212 Bee ee See
Snowy egret (Hgretta candidissima) ——
Great white heron (Herodias egretta)-
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias)—-_
Great black-crowned heron (Ardea

Black stork (Ciconia nigra) —---------
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus dubius)_—~
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) —---~
Sacred ibis (Ibis ethiopica) _---------
White ibis (Guara alta) -—---_-___-_—
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaja ajaja)—-----
European flamingo (Phenicoplerus an-

tiquorum) \~2_2 Sees sees
Crested screamer (Chauna cristata) —~
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus) —-~
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) ~--__-_--_
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)--_-__-_-
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) —-__
White muscovy duck (Cairina mos-

chata) 2222S ee
Wandering tree-duck (Dendrocygna ar-
CuatG) L222 eS
Fulvous tree-duck (Dendrocygna bi-

color) 2. SSeS ee
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra) —
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) __-_
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis

hutchinsit) 2222 ee eee
Lesser snow goose (Chen hyperboreus)_
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus

vvais) ...-.-.  eeee eee
American white-fronted goose (Anser

aloifrons gamben) === ee
Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides)-____-_
Secaup duck (Marila marila)______-__-
Canvasback (Marila valisneria) _____-
Red-headed duck (Marila americana) —_
Wood duck (At#@ sponsa)_____-=-- ===
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu-

lata)
Pintall (Dafila acute) 22
Shoveler duck (Spatula clypeata) -----
Black duck (Anas rubripes) ---____-___-
Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) —-__---__

American white pelican (Pelecanus
erythrorhynchos) 2-2-2 ee
European white pelican (Pelecanus

onocrotalus)..=--=——==— eee
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ~--~
Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis )_
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocorar au-

ritis floridanus).——~——=— = 22 eee
Mexican cormorant

vigua menicanus) 22-22 _ SSeS Eee
Water turkey (Anhinga anhinga)-_---~-
Roseate tern (Sterna dougalli) _---__--
Royal tern (Sterna maxima) _--------
Black-backed gull (Larus marinus) —---~

-

02 eb ye Ht

bo

BeRROoONDW HEARNE Ne

to

bo AQepD A

-

OMbd & O11 Oo

Com me He OT

=
o
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Animals in the collection June 30, 19185—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

Herring gull (Larus argentatus) —--__-
American herring gull (Larus argen-
tatus smithsonianus ) ~--_----------
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) _-__--~
South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
ERIELIS eee ne rere te a a

Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) —_
Sharp-nosed crocodile (Crocodilus
MRNCRECULIDIUR  Peecetee n e E
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta)—__-~-~
Diamond-back terrapin (Malacoclemys
LU PESTAL IN) Se hE
Three-toed box-tortoise (Cistudo tri-
VENDOS) Soh een
Painted box-tortoise (Cistudo ornata)_—
Gopher turtle (Xerobates polyphemus) —
Duncan Island tortoise (T'estudo ephip-
LEU TIT pV oe oS ERE Ss SEE emg ee eee

(BENOIT
Horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) -
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) —
Glass snake (Ophisaurus ventralis)__-_
Regal python (Python reticulatus) _--_
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) —~----_--
Velvet snake (Hpicrates cenchris) —~___
Cuban tree-boa (£picrates angulifer) —-

4 | Somali ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
UIUC ES io ES AEE ee
5 | Common cassowary (Casuarius galea-
2 EUS) kB ee ZENE RAS ER oe ee Re
Common rhea (Rhea americana) ——~~__~
7 | Emu (Dromeus nove hollandie)——~-___
REPTILES.
17 | Spreading adder (Heterodon platy-
TRANMUS) 222 ee Se 2 ee
1 | Black snake (Zamenis constrictor) ____
4 | Coach-whip snake (Zamenis flagellum) —
Corn snake (Coluber guttatus)—~---___
4 | Common chicken snake (Coluber quad-
Mvittatus) Loe. 3 ee eee
g | Gopher snake (Compsosoma _ corais
5 couperit) 2 es eee ee
1 Pine snake (Pityophis melanoleucus)
Bull snake (Pityophis sayi)_~~--._-_-__-
>» | King snake (Ophibolus getulus) -___-_-
“| Common garter snake (Hutenia sirta-
WB) ohio eA a RTE See
1 Texas water snake (Hutenia proxvima) _
3 | Water moccasin (Ancistrodon. piscivo-
5) TUS Wane eS eee Ee eee
1 | Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortria) __
1 | Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman-
2 TOUS) ei oe eh eS ee
1 | Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horri-
i AUS) ee 2 Ce PURI Cee eee
GIFTS.

Mr. Raymond Adams, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Dr. J. S. Billupp, Leeland, Md., an American magpie.

Mr. M. HB. Boyd, Washington, D. C., a horned lizard.

Mr. August Busck, Washington, D. C., two marmosettes.

Mr. W. M. Chrissinger, Hagerstown, Md., a black snake.

Mrs. Eugenia S. Cleary, Washington, D. C., a common canary.
Mr. Wallace Eyans, Oak Park, Ill., four mink.

Capt. W. EH. P. French, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. F. P. Hall, Washington, D. C., three alligators.

Mr. Kidwell, Washington, D. C., a bald eagle.

Mr. M. 8S. Lawrence, Washington, D. C., a common opossum.
Mr. De Witt T. Leach, Washington, D. C., a woodchuck.

Mr. Ralph W. Lee, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Miss Clare and Mr. James McCall, Mapleton, Pa., a banded rattlesnake.
Mr. D. McLanahan, Washington, D. C., a barred owl.

Mr. E. B. McLean, Washington, D. C., a skunk, two raccoons, and a toucan.

Mr. J. W. Mills, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. Victor Mindeleff, Washington, D. C., a crocodile.

Mr. Thomas Moreland, Washington, D. C., a barn owl.

Hon. L. P. Padgett, Columbia, Tenn., a gray coatimundi.

Capt. A. W. Perry, Washington, D. C., a western mocking bird.
Capt. R. B. Putnam, Washington, D. C., a gray coatimundi.
Mr. fF. J. Raymond, Washington, D. C., a green parrot.

Dr. C. W. Richmond, Washington, D. C., two barn owls.

44863°—sm 1913——6

81

keh es CD

a
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Mrs. Ricketson, Washington, D. C., a common raccoon.

Mr. Richard A. Sargent, Washington, D. C., a common canary.

Mrs. Gurnon P. Scott, Washington, D. C., a shell parrakeet.

Mr. BE. 'T. Seton, Cos Cob, Conn., three common skunks.

Mr. Ellis Spear, Washington, D. C., two common canaries.

Miss Straub, Washington, D. C., a green parrot.

Mr. H. EH. Thomas, Washington, D. C., a black snake.

Mrs. HE. St. Clair Thompson, Washington, D. C., a common canary.

Mrs. GC. V. Williams, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Hon. Woodrow Wilson, Washington, D. C., a horned lizard.

The Zoological Society of Philadelphia, six muskrats.

Unknown donors, a screech owl, five barn owls, an English pheasant, and an
alligator.

LOSSES OF ANIMALS.

The most serious loss was among the ruminants. An eland, a
bontebok, a Coke’s hartebeest, and a harnessed antelope died from
tuberculosis; a moose and a reindeer from enteritis; two tahr goats
from pneumonia; and an American bison, 21 years old, from arterio-
sclerosis. A fur seal also died from enteritis and a grizzly bear
that when captured, 19 years before, weighed 730 pounds was killed
because of its general decrepitude. A number of birds were lost
through the depredations of raccoons and other animals living at
large in the park. The night herons had increased to such an extent
in the flying cage that they interfered with the nesting of other
birds there, and the greater part of them (114) were disposed of,
a few as gifts to other zoological collections.

Of animals that died in the park, 107 were transferred to the
National Museum. Autopsies were made as heretofore by the Patho-
logical Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of
Agriculture.?

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.

Bresenteders sll eet el tl ee 66
AESIGGM SGC ees ee a ee eee 162
Bornvand hatched in: National Zoological Park -_-_._ -—. ee 78
Receive in exchanges 20.20 oS i eee 18
Meposited in National Zoological Park... 4. eee 6
Capiredvin: National Zoological Park=22*_~. 20 Se 1

MRO GAN ee ee. 2 EE SE 2s pol

1The causes of death were reported to be as follows: Enteritis, 37; gastritis, 1;
impaction of bowel, 3; pneumonia, 14; tuberculosis, 10; congestion of lungs, 4; asper-
gillosis, 4; malignant catarrh of nose and throat, 1; inflammation of pharynx and
larynx, 1; congestion of liver, 1; septicemia, 3; sarcoma, 1; abscess, 1; gangrene of
thyroid gland, 1; generalized fat necrosis, 1; arteriosclerosis, 1; umbilical infection, 1;
starvation (snakes), 8; killed because of arthritis, 1, and of senile debility, 1; accidents
(killed by animals, etc.), 32; no cause found (only viscera examined in most cases), 12.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

SUMMARY.

ENTATTTMEM ES y Latah aos fr Ba Ag USM SL ce Re Ne Le ed Se A ietsta |

PPO CESSTOM SM CRU LTS He Nyaa LAURE a dd ATION ate a el SET ahs 3381

BEC tical Mpeierer eee tee ee a Et ON ad ee lot Le eee ad 1, 882

Deduct loss (by exchange, death, return of animals, ete.) _~__________ 414

RO Hee TTeV ETC TIRC SOL Dike yee eae a I ee ee 1, 468

Class. Species. inated

Se ee a eee ate sce cacys oiSb oss mien soc gnee sees sess che ctese sick 154 606

Ene PEE ey Ben Sho fh oe eee ocaddiececbeuecpaes saves cecboes 202 786

eal PEE EE Pre ER SNe Seo wa bak oe wiclsatia cise da Sd sleidltties oilseed tenes 31 76

A ee Ilan ote Saloon) sw c\n wroininiain'2 = no cin = a\e\niaiao a nla <ieis'a.ciw'=io es sim=cine oss / 387 1, 468
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year, as deter-
mined by count and estimate, was 633,526, a daily average of 1,731.
This was nearly 100,000 more than during the fiscal year 1912. The
largest number in any one month was 120,908, in March, 1913, an
average per day of 3,900.

Dyring the year 142 classes, schools, etc., with a total of 5,579
pupils, visited the park, a monthly average of 465. These were
mainly from the District of Columbia and neighboring States, but
other States, from Vermont, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts,
to Tennessee and South Carolina, were represented, and “Corn
Growers” belonging to 18 States.

IMPROVEMENTS.

The construction of a house for the storage and preparation of
food, which was begun toward the close of the previous year, was
completed early in this year and equipped with a large range for
cooking and baking, a small cold-storage room, dumb-waiter, etc.
The total cost of building and equipment was $3,615, of which
$3,050 was paid from this year’s appropriation. The building is of
stone, 24 feet wide and 40 feet long,and has one story and a basement,
both with concrete floors. It is abundantly lighted and thoroughly
sanitary. It is located at the rear of the temporary bird house, so
that the building and theyard about itare screened from public view,
while still convenient of access. This improvement had been much
needed, as the only place previously available for the preparation of
food was the cellar of the lion house, where both light and ventila-
tion were far from satisfactory.

An inclosure and shelter house were built between the lion ‘house
and the small-mammal house to afford temporary quarters for the
small flock of ostriches recently aequired. The house is 16 feet
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

wide and 24 feet long, and the adjoining inclosure, which is nearly
circular, is about 100 feet in diameter.

A new inclosure, with a pool, for wood ducks and nearly related
species, was built in the valley near the flying cage.

The suspension footbridge across Rock Creek near the northern
entrance to the park having become unsafe, a new bridge of similar
construction was built there.

A bridle path was laid out near the bank of the creek throughout
its entire length in the park, and a rustic walk, mainly parallel to the
roadway, was built from the concrete bridge to the north entrance.

Early in the year the first section of a retaining wall was built
in the ravine opposite the point at which Ontario Road reaches the
park, and later a second section was built above this, giving the wall
a total height of 18 feet.

A small retaining wall was built, also, at the mouth of the little
run at the northern edge of the park near Klingle Road to prevent
further erosion there and protect valuable forest trees which are
being undermined.

A small amount of riprapping was done at three places on the
banks of the creek.

Just before the close of the year work was begun on the old ele-
phant barn to fit it and the adjoining yard, then occupied by tairs,
for the temporary accommodation of the two young African ele-
phants which had been secured from the zoological garden at Giza.
A new yard, with a pool, for the tapirs was built next to the new
elephant house, the work on this being well under way at the close
of the year.

The cost of these improvements was as follows:

Hoodehouse (from. 1915 appropriation) 220. 20220 ee ee $3, 050
imclosuresand shelter for ostriches: 20 tL 3h en a eee 450
imelosure,and: pool) for wood. ducks_si2.") ee eee 200
New, suspension footbridge as ssc ila be 400
BmGlenmath and) rustic walks t 00 oaks ei ee hie
Resainine wallat Ontario Road.i2 20 0 1 eee 425
Retaining wall near Klingle Road_____________ wo. 175
prapwine Danks /oficreeko 6) SLU We eel es oe er 275
Alterations of old elephant barn and inclosure________________________ 850

FDoy iG po ly Ne a AO Nee OL eRe EON YS 6, 600

Through the generosity of Mr. John B, Henderson, jr., there was
completed in the autumn of 1912 an outdoor cage for parrots which
had heretofore been confined in the bird house. The cage is 24 by
40 feet, and about 26 feet high, has a steel framework and is covered
with strong wire netting of special construction. Several species
of cockatoos and macaws, and one species of Amazon parrot, in all 28
specimens, were placed in the cage, and, with few exceptions, have
been thrifty and appear to enjoy their outdoor freedom.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, INCLOSURES, ETC.

It was necessary to make quite extensive repairs during the year,
so that the expenditures for upkeep were somewhat larger than usual.
New concrete floors were laid in two of the largest bear yards, and
the pools rebuilt. The concrete base of the partitions between the
several yards was also built up sufficiently to bring the metal work of
the partitions above the damp floor.

A section of the boundary fence of the park was largely rebuilt
and other portions repaired, and much of the metal work of cages
and inclosures was repainted, including the flying cage and eagle
cage, bear yards, antelope yards, and the outside cages of the small-
mammal house.

NEW BRIDGE ACROSS ROCK CREEK.

The sundry civil act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913, con-
tained the following item: “ For the construction of a rough-stone
faced or bowlder bridge across Rock Creek to replace the present log
bridge on the line of the roadway from Adams Mill Road entrance
and Cathedral Avenue, $20,000.” The act also includes the follow-
ing provisions: “ Hereafter all plans and specifications for the con-
struction of buildings in the National Zoological Park shall be pre-
pared under the supervision of the municipal architect of the District
of Columbia, and all plans and specifications for bridges in said
park shall be prepared under the supervision of the engineer of
bridges of the District of Columbia.”

In accordance with this requirement the matter of preparing plans
and specifications for the bridge was taken up with the engineer of
bridges very soon after the sundry civil act was approved (August 24,
1912). A considerable amount of preliminary work had already been
done when the engineer of bridges died. The matter was taken up
again with his successor and plans and specifications were prepared
and advertisements made for proposals April 28, 1913. A contract
for the construction of the bridge was entered into May 29, 1913.
The old bridge was removed as soon as possible, and work on the
new bridge was begun about the middle of June. The bridge is to be
of reinforced concrete, faced with rough blocks of the blue gneiss found
in this region. Stone for the concrete is to be obtained in the park.
The span of the bridge is to be 80 feet and the total length at the
road level 114 feet. The bridge will be 39 feet 6 inches wide from
outside to outside, with a width of 36 feet 6 inches between the para-
pets. There will be a macadam roadway with concrete sidewalk
on either side, but the construction of roadway and sidewalks will be
deferred until the earth fill has thoroughly settled. The work on the
main portion of the bridge covered by the contract will amount to
about $10,800, while the cost of material furnished by the park, prep-
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

aration of plans, superintendence, and other expenses will probably
bring the total cost up to $15,300. The appropriation, therefore,
will be sufficient to add wing walls if desirable, and to complete the
approaches. It is expected that all work under the contract will be
finished and the temporary roadway built in time to open the bridge
for use by October 30. It has been necessary to close the road to
vehicles during the construction of the bridge.

Most of the members of the old log bridge, which was erected in
1896, were found to be in surprisingly good condition, but it was
so much decayed at some vital points as to be dangerous for use.

ALTERATION OF THE WEST BOUNDARY OF THE PARK.

Tn the last annual report, as in several previous reports, attention
was called to the urgent need of acquiring additional land along the
western side of the park and the great desirability of extending the
park to Connecticut Avenue. The matter was presented to Congress
and an appropriation has been made for the purchase of the pri-
vately owned land lying between the western boundary of the park
and Connecticut Avenue from Cathedral Avenue to Klingle Road,
the land in the included highways also to become a part of the park.
The land to be purchased amounts to about ten and two-thirds acres
and that in the highways to about two and two-thirds acres.

Respectfully submitted.

FrANK Baker, Superintendent.
Dr. Cuartes D. Waxcort, p

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. CG.
APPENDIX 5.

REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year
ending June 30, 1913:

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square
feet, containing five small frame buildings used for observing and
computing purposes, three movable frame shelters covering several
out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and also one small brick building
containing a storage battery and electrical distribution apparatus.

(6) At Mount Wilson, Cal., upon a leased plot of ground 100
feet square, in horizontal projection, are located a one-story cement
observing structure, designed especially for solar-constant measure-
ments, and also a little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for observer’s
quarters.

During the year there was erected upon the observing shelter at
Mount Wilson a tower 40 feet high above the 12-foot piers which
had been prepared in the original construction of the building. This
tower is now being equipped as a tower telescope for use when ob-
serving (with the spectrobolometer) the distribution of radiation
over the sun’s disk. The cost of the tower and its apparatus has thus
far been about $1,400.

Other pieces of apparatus for research have been purchased or
constructed at the observatory shop. The value of these additions
to the instrumental equipment, not counting the tower above men-
tioned and its equipment, is estimated at $1,500.

WORK OF THE YAR.

1. ON THE SOLAR CONSTANT OF RADIATION.

When Volume IT of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory
was published in 1908 the standard scale of measurement of solar
radiation had not yet been established. Several supposedly standard
pyrheliometers for the purpose of fixing the true scale of radiation
measurement were constructed and tried at this observatory, as men-

87
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tioned in former reports. The results obtained agreed closely to-
gether and were checked by observations with known quantities of
heat. In October, 1912, another type of standard pyrheliometer,
which we called the water-stir pyrheliometer, was devised, con-
structed, and used. It proves to give values for the standard scale of
radiation almost identical with those which we had before obtained,
and in this instrument, as in the others, known test quantities of heat
were introduced and measured within less than 1 per cent. In view
of all these experiments with standard pyrheliometers, it is now felt
that the standard scale of radiation is at length fully established.
Accordingly, a publication entitled “ Smithsonian Pyrheliometry Re-
vised ” was issued February 1, 1913, giving the results of all the
definitive experiments on the standard scale of radiation and also
the experiments made to fix the scales of all the secondary pyrheli-
ometers in use at the Astrophysical Observatory or furnished by
the Smithsonian Institution to observers in this country and abroad.

A small correction in the determinations of the solar constant of
radiation made at Mount Wilson and elsewhere was found to be
required owing to a residual effect of water vapor in the atmosphere
which had not been entirely eliminated. This correction sometimes
reaches as great a magnitude as 2 per cent. It has now been applied
to all the measurements made at the various stations which have been
occupied since 1902, and all the solar-constant measurements, about
700 in number, have been reduced to the new standard scale of pyrhe-
hometry.

The mean value of the solar constant of radiation at the earth’s
mean distance from the sun from about 700 measurements, some at
Washington, others at Mount Wilson, others at Bassour, Algeria, and
still others at Mount Whitney, Cal., and covering the years from 1902
to 1912, has now been taken. J¢ és 1.932 calories per square centi-
meter per minute.

2. THE VARIABILITY OF THE SUN.
(a) Attending sun spots.

Tn connection with the reduction of the measurements of the solar
constant of radiation mentioned above, mean values were taken for
each month during which observations had been made at Mount
Wilson. These monthly mean values, extending from the year
1905 to the year 1912, have been compared with the so-called Wolff
sun-spot numbers for the same months. The result shows, as indi-
cated in the accompanying illustration, that increased solar-constant
values attend increased sun-spot numbers. An increase of radiation
at the earth’s mean distance from the sun of 0.07 calorie per square
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

centimeter per minute appears to attend an increased spottedness of
the sun represented by 100 Wolff sun-spot numbers.

(0) Short interval irregular variability.

The observations which had been begun in the year 1911 and con-
tinued in the year 1912 at Bassour, Algeria, simultaneously with
similar observations at Mount Wilson, Cal., were concluded in
September, 1912. The observations obtained at the two stations have

Bee eee

c]

BERETTA

6

Gs ea

ie
Aaa
ie
fi
a
ZR
is

EIN es ais

MOUNT WILSON VALUES. CALORIES.
&- 180. 2

6

diessocents
fe

CECE REDE

ba SaHSET EP EEETS

Fras eneree nets

LE ae ee rs ae

1.90 4

Seat Pots Caton ES.

now been completely reduced and compared. The results given in
the accompanying diagram show conclusively that if high values of
the solar radiation (outside the atmosphere) are found from Cali-
fornia observations, the values found from Algerian observations
will be high also, and vice versa. In other words, the fluctuation of
the “ solar-constant” values which had been found in California in
former years are now shown to be no local phenomenon due, per-
haps, to atmospheric disturbances, but rather a phenomenon which
is general over the earth’s surface and which must be attributed to
causes outside the earth altogether. It would be conceivable that
such a cause might be the interposition of meteoric dust or other
matter between the earth and the sun; but other evidence, which is
more fully explained in Volume III of the Annals of the Astro-
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

physical Observatory, shows that we must attribute the changes to
the sun itself and not to the interposition of matter between the
earth and the sun. Thus we may conclude that the sun is variable,
having not only a periodicity connected with the periodicity of sun
spots, but also an irregular, nonperiodic variation, sometimes run-
ning its course in a week or 10 days, at other times in longer periods,
and ranging over irregular fluctuations of from 2 to 10 per cent of
the total radiation in magnitude.

MONTHLY SUN-SPOT NUMBERS. WOLFER.

re)
69 so. .o! 22 93 [947,55 96 7 1.98
MONTHLY SOLAR-CONSTANT VALUES, CALORIES.

3. THE EFFECTS OF VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS.

Violent eruption of Mount Katmai, Alaska, occurred on June 6,
7, and 8, 1912. The solar observations made at Bassour, Algeria,
and at Mount Wilson, Cal., began to indicate the presence of dust
in the upper air from this volcano about June 20, 1912. The effects
of this dust became more and more considerable, so that in August
the direct radiation of the sun was reduced by the interposition of
the dust cloud by about 20 per cent, both at Bassour and Mount
Wilson. <A study of the influence of Mount Katmai and other
volcanic eruptions was published by Messrs. Abbot and Fowle in
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 60, No. 29, 1913.
It was shown that not only the volcano of Mount Katmai, but also
other great eruptions of former years, have materially decreased the
direct radiation of the sun, and apparently altered the temperature
of the earth. Various observers have shown that the presence of
sun spots is attended with a decreased terrestrial temperature. In
the paper just mentioned it is shown that quite as important an

:
q

|
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

influence is attributable to the presence of volcanic haze; and that
a combination of the effects of sun spots and volcanic haze accounts
for all the principal outstanding irregularities in the temperature
of the earth for the last 30 years.

4. VOLUME III OF THE ANNALS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The principal work of the year was the reduction of observations
and the preparation for publication of Volume III of the Annals of
the Astrophysical Observatory. (Quarto; pp. XI-+-241; tables, 70;
inserted plates, 7; text figures, 32.) The manuscript was forwarded
to the Public Printer on April 1, and the first completed copy of the
book was received on July 3, 1913. About 1,400 copies have been
distributed to libraries and individuals throughout the world.

In brief, the experiments described therein, which include the
work of the observatory from 1907 to 19138, appear—

(a) To have established the scale of measurement of radiation to
within 1 per cent.

(6) To have established the solar constant of radiation to within
1 per cent.

(c) To have shown by two independent methods that the sun’s
emission is not uniform but varies with an irregular periodicity of
from 7% to 10 days on the average and with irregular amounts seldom
if ever exceeding 10 per cent.

(d) To have shown that the sun also varies in connection with the
sun-spot cycle. The solar emission appears to be increased at the
earth’s mean distance from the sun by about 0.07 of a calorie per
square centimeter per minute for an increase of 100 Wolff sun-spot
numbers.

(e) A marked effect of volcanic dust in the upper atmosphere on
the radiation of the sun and on the temperature of the earth is
indicated.

(f) Studies of the radiation of the sky, the effects of water vapor
on the solar radiation, the distribution of radiation over the sun’s
disk, the probable temperature of the sun, and other subjects are
included.

5. STUDIES OF THE TRANSMISSION OF LONG WAVE RAYS BY WATER VAPOR
IN THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE.

Mr. Fowle’s experiments on the transmission of radiation through
long columns of air containing measured quantities of water vapor
were temporarily discontinued owing to the need of completing the
publication of Volume III of the Annals. He, however, published
a paper on the quantity of water vapor found above the Mount Wil-
son station.?

1 Astrophysical Journal, vol. 57, p. 359, 1913.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Toward the end of the fiscal year a vacuum bolometer was pre-
pared for use in continuing the experiments on the transmission of
very long wave rays through atmospheric water vapor. It is pro-
posed to push this work in the immediate future.

6. THE CALIFORNIA EXPEDITION,

A grant of money from the Hodgkins fund having been made by
the Institution to Mr. A. K. Angstrém for observations of nocturnal
radiation at different altitudes, several other lines of investigation
were arranged to be included in connection with these researches.
In the first place measurements were proposed on the total radiation
from the sky by day. For this purpose and with the aid of a small
grant from the Hodgkins fund Mr. Abbot devised and tested a
special sky-radiation apparatus. This instrument comprises two
blackened strips of metal, which are exposed successively at the
centers of two metal plates in such a way that the whole hemisphere
of the sky is free to shine on the exposed blackened strip, but nothing
can come from below the horizon toward the strips. Each strip is
at the center of a hemispherical glass inclosure, which serves the
purpose of preventing the exchange of rays of long-wave lengths
(associated with the temperature of such objects) between the black-
ened strip and the sky. Thus the apparatus serves to measure the
quantity of radiation, originally coming from the sun, which has
become diffusely scattered toward the horizontal surface by the
molecules and dust particles found in the atmosphere.

Secondly, in order to determine the temperature and humidity
prevailing above the stations occupied by Mr. Angstrém’s expedi-
tions, the Institution procured a large number of sounding balloons,
and arrangements were made with the Weather Bureau for flying
these balloons from Santa Catalina Island, carrying with each ascen-
sion self-recording apparatus of the Weather Bureau for measuring
the temperature, pressure, and humidity of the air. Captive balloons
belonging to the Weather Bureau were also arranged to be sent up
at Lone Pine, Cal., and at Mount Whitney, Cal., while Mr. Angstrém
was occupying these two stations.

As certain writers have expressed doubt whether measurements of
the solar constant of radiation made by Langley’s method of high
and low observations with the spectrobolometer really furnish the
solar radiation values as they would be found outside our atmosphere,
it seemed desirable to check these results by observing at the highest
possible altitudes the actual intensity of the solar radiation.
For this purpose Mr. Abbott designed a form of pyrheliometer,
similar in principle to the’ silver-disk pyrheliometer, but which
is automatic and self-recording, and can be attached to a sound-
ing balloon, and thus carried to very great heights. Five copies
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

of this instrument were prepared at the observatory shops by Mr.
Kramer and Mr. Abbot, and these were sent with the expedition to
California. In anticipation it may be said that the five instruments
were sent up on successive days, beginning July 30, 1913, and at the
time of writing this report two of them have been recovered. Each of
the two had a readable record of the ascension. <A preliminary re-
_ duction of the results shows that, beginning at an altitude of about
6,000 meters and separated by altitude intervals of 2,000 or 3,000
meters for successive exposure, four determinations of the solar
radiation were obtained in each of the ascents. The rough computa-
tion mentioned results as follows: First ascent: 1.44, 1.60, 1.70, and
1.88 calories per square centimeter per minute. Second ascent: 1.62,
1.64, 1.76, and 1.89 calories per square centimeter per minute.

These results are subject to later recomputation, but they indicate
at least that our solar-constant work of 1902-1912 by high and low
sun observations on homogeneous rays, according to Langley’s
methods, gives results of the same order of magnitude as those
obtained by direct pyrheliometric observations at extremely high
altitudes.

PERSONNEL.

No change has occurred in the staff of the observatory, except that
Miss F. E. Frisby completed her temporary service as computer on
June 30, 1913, and Mr. A. K. Angstrém served as temporary bolo-
metric assistant in Algeria from July 1, 1912, to September 30, 1912.

SUMMARY.

The work of the observatory has been uncommonly successful.
Volume III of its Annals has been published, including the work of
the years 1907 to 1912. The observations at Bassour, Algeria, taken
in connection with those made simultaneously at Mount Wilson, Cal.,
have established the variability of the sun. <A variability connected
with the sun-spot cycle has also been shown. The mean value of the
solar constant of radiation has been fixed, it is thought, within 1 per
cent. From about 700 observations, extending over the time interval
from 1902 to 1912 and taken at different altitudes from sea level to
4,420 meters, the mean value is 1.932 calories per square centimeter per
minute. Pyrheliometers have been sent up by means of sounding
balloons to very great altitudes, and preliminary results indicate that
they give values of the solar radiation similar to those found by high
and low sun observations on homogeneous rays.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Appor,

Director Astrophysical Observatory,
Smithsonian Institution.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcortt,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on work
performed for the Smithsonian Library during the fiscal year ending

June 30, 1918:
ACCESSIONS.

The accessions to the library are obtained mainly by exchange of
Smithsonian publications, or by gift. During the fiscal year 1913,
33,161 packages of publications were received as exchanges and gifts,
of which 29,065 packages were transmitted by mail and 4,096 through
the International Exchange Service. In addition to letters written
in acknowledgement of publications received in response to the re-
quests of the Institution for exchange, some 5,000 publications were
acknowledged on the regular printed forms.

The following number of accessions for the Smithsonian deposit
in the Library of Congress were recorded during the year: 3,379
volumes, 1,407 parts of volumes, 5,990 pamphlets, and 450 charts;
total, 11,226 publications. The numbers in the accession catalogue
ran from 508,789 to 513,026, the parts of serial publications entered
on the card catalogue numbered 21,081, and 1,256 slips were prepared
for completed volumes. The various publications sent to the Library
of Congress as soon as received and entered filled 257 boxes and com-
prised 30,350 separate pieces, including parts of periodicals, pam-
phlets and complete. volumes. Besides these, about 1,704 parts of
serials needed to complete sets were obtained by exchange and sent to
the Library of Congress separately.

As in previous years, public documents presented to the Institution
were sent to the Library of Congress without being stamped or
recorded. Publications of this class to the number of 9,866 were
transmitted in this manner during the year.

The Smithsonian Office Library and the small collections of books
maintained by the Astrophysical Observatory and the National Zoo-
logical Park received accessions amounting altogether to 473, di-
vided as follows: Smithsonian Office, 314 volumes, 37 parts of vol-
umes, and 19 pamphlets; Astrophysical Observatory, 90 volumes, 21
parts of volumes, and 69 pamphlets; National Zoological Park, 13
volumes and 10 pamphlets.

1Only a portion of these are included in the foregoing statistics of accessions, as
periodicals are not entered jm the accession record until volumes are complete.

94
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95
EXCHANGES.

Through correspondence, 140 new periodicals were added during
the year to the great collection of scientific journals contained in the
Smithsonian deposit, together with 1,704 parts needed to complete
volumes in the various series.

The matter of the completion of sets in the Smithsonian deposit
received special attention. Revised want lists for Belgium, Den-
mark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and
Switzerland were taken up, and, so far as possible, the needed parts
were supplied. These lists were additional to the regular want cards
received separately from the Library of Congress. As a result of
the work carried on in this direction during the year, 192 parts of 60
different publications were sent to the Library of Congress to com-
plete sets of periodicals in the Smithsonian deposit and 1,475 missing
parts needed to complete volumes of 173 different series of publica-
tions of learned societies and scientific institutions. For other divi-
sions of the Library of Congress 37 parts of 16 sets were supplied.

In exchange for annual reports of the American Historical Asso-
ciation a number of publications of European historical societies
were obtained for the library, as in previous years.

READING ROOM.

The rearrangement of the reading room in the Smithsonian build-
ing mentioned in last year’s report was completed. Two new oak
tables have been provided, a large one for readers and a smaller one
with bins for periodicals. All the doors have been removed from
the cases of pigeonholes for periodicals which stand against the
walls and proper space made for desks and aisles. By these changes
the appearance of the room has been much improved and the period.
icals made more readily accessible. The latest issues of about 262
domestic and foreign scientific periodicals are now constantly at
hand and are consulted by the staff of the Institution and _ its
branches, the scientific officers of various governmental establish-
ments in Washington, and students generally. The series of large
accession books formerly kept in the reading room have been re-
moved to the adjoining office and placed in a special case. A partial
rearrangement of the contents of the room farther to the east was
effected during the year for the purpose of making the encyclopedias,
dictionaries, gazetteers, and other books of general reference more
readily accessible. This room contains the transactions of the vari-
ous academies of the world and other similar series which are con-
stantly needed for reference by the scientific staff of the Institution.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

AHRONAUTICAL LIBRARY.

The Institution possesses an excellent collection of literature relat-
ing to the subject of aeronautics, which is kept in the room last men-
tioned. This very valuable series of publications is rich in period-
icals, especially those of early date. During the year all the books
were reclassified and the volumes of periodicals were collated and
made ready for binding.

ART ROOM AND EMPLOYEES’ LIBRARY.

No additions to the works on art contained in this room were made
during the year and the arrangement remained unchanged. All
works relating to other subjects than art have been eliminated, and
those properly belonging in the room are in good condition and
readily accessible.

No changes were made in the small collection of general literature
known as the employees’ library for the reasons mentioned in last
year’s report.

NEW STEEL BOOKSTACKS.

The estimates for the fiscal year 1914 contained an item of $40,000
for the erection of metal bookstacks in the main hall of the Smith-
sonian building, to contain the library of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, a part of the National Museum library, together with
books belonging to other branches of the Institution, and certain
collections of Smithsonian books used by the scientific and adminis-
trative staff. Toward the close of the fiscal year covered by this
report Congress appropriated the sum of $15,000 for beginning this
work, and arrangements were immediately made to secure a design
for the bookstacks. In accordance with the plan proposed, a floor
space at each end of the hall measuring 50 feet by 26 feet will be
devoted to the stacks, which will be arranged in three tiers and reach
from the floor to the ceiling. In order to increase the shelf capacity
and at the same time preserve the appearance of the hall, a series of
bookeases about 8 feet high will be carried along the north and south
walls, connecting with the stacks at each end. The object of this
arrangement is to concentrate the various collections of books as far
as practicable and at the same time to preserve the symmetry of the
hall, and to leave the central portion open for exhibits and for va-
rious Smithsonian gatherings. A portion of the space will probably
be needed for the preservation and display of the personal relics of ~
James Smithson and for objects illustrating the work of the several
branches of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97
CATALOGUE OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

A contract was entered into during the year for the preparation
of a complete catalogue of the publications of the Institution and its
branches in book form. It is expected that the manuscript will be
finished within a few months and that means will be found to print
and issue the catalogue without serious delay.

LIBRARIES OF THE GOVERNMENT BRANCHES.

United States National Museum.—In accordance with the plans ap-
proved last year, four rooms at the northeast corner of the new
building of the National Museum on the ground floor (Nos. 24, 26,
27, and 28) were fitted with steel bookstacks and other library appli-
ances of the latest design for the reception of the portion of the
Museum library needed in connection with the study and classifica-
tion of the natural history and other collections in that building.
The three rooms on the north side of the corridor not being separated
by partitions, the entire space of 107 feet by 21 feet was divided into
three portions of unequal dimensions, the western portion being as-
signed for a general reading room, and also for the card catalogues,
reference books, charging desk, etc. The middle portion, of smaller
dimensions, for quiet reading; and the larger eastern portion for the
general stacks. The stacks are in two tiers separated by a glass floor.
In the middle room the arrangement is similar, except that a large
table occupies the central floor space. A gallery which extends
around three sides of the general reading room also supports stacks,
and on the ground floor additional shelving occupies the east wall of
this room. Open shelves for current numbers of periodicals occupy
the space under the windows. Two steel manuscript cases have been

_ placed in the middle room, and a small lift for raising books to the

upper or mezzanine floor, and suitable staircases have also been pro-
vided. <A special feature of the stack room is that every second stack

is but 34 feet high instead of 7 feet. This arrangement reduces the

total shelf capacity a little, but provides a place on which to lay
books when they are being rearranged or used by readers. As the
members of the staff and other students are permitted to consult books
in the stack room, the provision is a necessary one.

The room on the south side of the corridor (No. 27) was arranged
as an office for the assistant librarian and the cataloguers. Bookstacks

“extend around the walls of the room on three sides, and there are

two additional stacks, dividing the room practically into three.

The steel stacks were completed about October 15, 1912, and the
moving of books from the old quarters was begun immediately. The
task of placing the books on the new shelves occupied about a month,

44862°—sm 19183——7
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

during which time they were, nevertheless, available for use by
readers and the delivery of books to the sectional libraries was not
interrupted. For moving, the books were tied together in lots of con-
venient size for handling, and each lot received a number. It was
then a simple matter to put the books in their proper places on the
shelves in the new library. After they were in place, the library
was fortunately able to employ temporary assistants to go over them
all for the purpose of checking up the various series and ascertaining
whether the volumes were all present and in their proper sequence.

The arrangement of the cards belonging to the Zurich catalogue of
scientific literature has been perfected, and they are now available for
reference.

In accordance with the plans decided upon, as mentioned in last
year’s report, the books on museum administration, technology, his-
tory, botany, and some other subjects were allowed to remain in the
old quarters, where they would be most readily accessible to the mem-
bers of the staff and others working in those lines. It is the inten-
tion, however, to transfer the botanical books to the new stacks in the
Smithsonian Building as soon as the latter shall have been com-
pleted.

This portion of the library was rearranged and recatalogued as
rapidly as possible, and with the aid of additional help the publica-
tions had been classified on the shelves at the close of the year and
about one-half of them recatalogued. The following work in this
direction was accomplished during the year: Books catalogued,
1,370; pamphlets, 2,416; total number of cards made, 3,132. Com-
pleted volumes of periodicals catalogued, 2,938; parts of publications,
19,059; total number of cards made, 1,117.

During the year 881 volumes were prepared for binding and sent
to the Government bindery for that purpose.

Many important gifts were received by the library during the year,
and the following members of the staff presented publications: Sec-
retary Charles D. Walcott, Dr. Theodore N. Gill, Dr. William H.
Dall, Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Dr. J. C. Crawford,
Dr. O. P. Hay, and Mr. W. R. Maxon.

The Museum library now contains 43,692 volumes, 72,042 unbound
papers, and 122 manuscripts. The accessions during the year covered
by this report consisted of 1,690 books, 2,213 pamphlets, and 159
parts of volumes. The number catalogued, exclusive of those men-
tioned above, was as follows: 782 books, 892 complete volumes of
periodicals, and 2,229 pamphlets.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from
the general library amounted to 25,846, among which were 3,888
obtained from the Library of Congress, 117 from the Department of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

Agriculture, 71 from the Army Medical Museum and library, 59
from the United States Geological Survey, and 19 from other libra-
ries. Publications to the number of 4,832 were assigned to the sec-
tional libraries of the Museum during the year.

The following is a complete list of the sectional libraries now
existing:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Materia medica.
Anthropology. — Mechanical technology.
Biology. Mollusks.

Birds. Oriental archeology.
Botany. Paleobotany.
Comparative anatomy. Parasites.

Fditor’s office. Photography.
Ethnology. Physical anthropology.
Fishes. Prehistoric archeology.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Graphie arts. Superintendent’s office.
Insects. Taxidermy.
Invertebrate paleontology. Textiles.

Mammals. Vertebrate paleontology.

The records of the Museum library consist of an author’s catalogue,
an accession book, a periodical record on standard cards, and a lend-
ing record. This lending record is on cards and includes books
borrowed from the Library of Congress and other libraries for the
use of the staff.

The library is largely dependent upon the exchange of Museum
publications as a means of increase. During the year many letters
asking for missing parts and for new exchanges were sent out, and
a number of sets were completed in this way and new publications
also added to the library.

Bureau of American E'thnology.—tThe report on this library will
be made by the ethnologist in charge and incorporated in his general
report on the operations of the bureau.

Astrophysical Observatory——The small collection of books con-
stituting the reference library of the Astrophysical Observatory was
rearranged in the cases in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building,
to which they were transferred from one of the tower rooms. During
the year 90 volumes, 21 parts of volumes, and 69 pamphlets were
received. This collection of books will eventually be placed in the
new steel stacks, for which an appropriation was made at the last
session of Congress.

National Zoological Park.—A small number of books on zoological
subjects are kept in the office of the superintendent of the park.
During the year 13 volumes and 10 pamphlets were added.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The following statement summarizes all the accessions during the
year, except those made to the library of the Bureau of American

Kthnology:
To the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts
to: complete. sets’. (see p.(904) 2-2 ee ee ee eee 12, 980
To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and Zoological
Park. 222 2k oi ea i alge ee ee 573
Toi the United States sNational Museum >= _2- eee 4, 062
MNO GAS eee ee ee 17, 565

Very respectfully,
F. W. True,
Assistant Secretary, in charge
of Library and Fachanges.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcortt,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature for the year ending June 30, 1913.

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature now consists of
33 regional bureaus, anew bureau representing the Argentine Republic
having been recently established at the Universidad de Buenos Aires.
It appears probable that Bolivia will soon also be represented by a
regional bureau. The following-named countries are represented by
regional bureaus supported in most cases by direct governmental
grants: Argentine Republic, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Den-
mark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary,
India and Ceylon, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New South Wales, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Queensland, Russia, South
Africa, South Australia, Spain, Straits Settlements, Sweden, Swit-
zerland, United States of America, Victoria and Tasmania, and
Western Australia.

These bureaus, acting through the London Central Bureau, form
the organization of the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture, whose duty it is to collect, index, classify, and publish a current
catalogue of the world’s scientific literature. The London Central
Bureau assembles, edits, and publishes the classified references sup-
plied by the regional bureaus.

The enterprise was begun in 1901 and since then there have been
published annually 17 volumes, one each year for the following-named
branches of science: Mathematics, mechanics, physics, chemistry,
astronomy, meteorology, mineralogy, geology, geography, paleon-
tology, general biology, botany, zoology, anatomy, anthropology,
physiology, and bacteriology.

All of the first 9 annual issues of the catalogue have been pub-
lished, 14 volumes of the tenth issue, and 2 volumes of the eleventh,
a total of 169 regular volumes in addition to several special volumes
of Schedules and Lists of Journals.

The annual subscription price for a complete set of 17 volumes is
$85. The receipts from the sale of the catalogue are used for the
maintenance of the central bureau, which pays for editing and print-

101
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

ing the catalogue. The balance sheet for the ninth annual issue
showed a credit for that issue of about $1,500 over and above ex-
penses. This is considered a satisfactory showing in view of the fact
that undertakings of this kind are in no sense commercial and can
hardly be expected to meet necessary expenses without aid from an
endowment or some similar source. The enterprise was begun with-
out a working capital other than the sums advanced from time to
time by the Royal Society of London. As interest is paid on all sums
so advanced the financial showing is not what it would have been had
the enterprise possessed a working capital. The sum needed to
completely pay off all obligations and leave a substantial balance for
the maintenance of the central bureau is only about $75,000, and it
would be difficult to find an object more deserving of assistance and
encouragement than this International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture whose purpose is to aid research and investigations in scientific
fields by furnishing a current classified index to the literature of
science. Some idea of the extent of the work may be gained from the
fact that about two and one-half million classified citations were re-
ceived by the central bureau from ,the regional bureaus since the
beginning of the enterprise in 1901, of these over 290,000 were pre-
pared by the regional bureau of the United States.

During the year 27,995 cards were sent from this bureau to the
London Central Bureau, as follows:

Literature of—

Ree ee ee Ee ME a 9
3s aE IN REALE a aS i NS 5
1S aie sletelnlont lala pans bist Deemed) oo 12
AEH LLC OO ROU A ie SI OE ee 14
sa ol MD MLSE CUPL MRSTURPealions MAN) Le G28 131
iC SEE CRT ONL ON FE YP eaten | YL 226
OOS ease NE Aha 324
OOO a ie aE oi bie ee 685
i (0) (i napa lilo cobydrte he i aN at Nb 3, 214
12) mal ied lars oy rn ea 6, 950
HAS LH EUAN EEA Ret TI 16, 425

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

103

The following table shows the number of cards sent each year as
well as the number of cards representing the literature of each year
from 1901 to 1912, inclusive:

Literature of— | 1901 | 1902 | 1903 | 1904 | 1905 | 1906 | 1907 | 1908 | 1909 | 1910 | 1911 | 1912 fon

year.
Year ending June
30—

1902. EA] | al al LER rat PEE ea reli 4 PR Ih ON oh) eer WOO Meee Pr gel [> Nees 6, 990
1903H cote e roo! GalSU RR TssOl eee a eee: eee een ee [mass oun aa lomaratnle. Soe oko eect ease 14, 480
LOA ee eos 20 SPI EHIOC | META 2 Ea Pe DS a i 21, 213
ADH ees ant: G19]. 25780|TV143| (SUG4Oee wo |tos ek lse sec lsce teu ee. | plat eae eee eee 24,182
ICTR eee SyOyl|| 9: Ged OS} GRE Ns Ts MC IU Ie sae ee ee eel secor|eaacee 25, 601
TOTS eee See aeesill eo 2721 OF 0222-578 esc eens ences [eens ene sees 28, 629
190Rs soe os eee) 40 g| 4523] S66|.) 95615; 629) 72 217/13) 4a012 Tene Eee heetie Se Rae 28, 528
T9002 beeen 133/092 235|0 0373), 309) .1,656| 745 410l48- 500183 784) _ ps5]. on) sees eee ae 34, 409
LOT Osea 72| 173| 248] 465] 1,163] 1,502] 3,160] 6,305|11,994]......|......].....- 25, 082
AQUA RARE LS 3. 3, 26] 28] 218] 129] 374] 423) 1,301| 8, 836/14, 682|/......|.....- 26, 020
TRY GO. Set eg Rae ea a 4) 243] 386] 562] 1,480] 1,949] 3,372] 5, 231/13, 974)...... 27,201
1OIS ee eee oss | 9 5| 12) 14) 131] 226) 324] 685] 3,214] 6, 950/16, 425] 27,995
Motalecemsess 19, 104/22, 633]25, 312|28, 254127, 000/26, 774127, 227/28, 663/24, 887/23, 127/20, 924/16, 425] 290, 330

Control over the catalogue is vested in a body known as the Inter-
national Convention which has held two meetings in London, the
last being in 1910. In the intervals between the meetings of this
body the administration of the catalogue is directed by the Interna-
tional Council expected to meet in London once in threg years and to
which each country represented by a regional bureau is requested to
send a representative.

Meetings of the International Council were held in 1904, 1907, and
in 1909, and a meeting of the International Convention was held
in 1910, so that a meeting of the International Council was planned
for 1913. This meeting, by a vote of the executive committee, was
postponed until 1914, as a number of new plans for the reduction of
cost and increasing the efficiency of the catalogue were either just
going into effect, or had been in operation but a short time, and it
was felt that the later date would give the members of the council
a better opportunity to judge their value.

Very respectfully,
Leonarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D, Watcorr,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8.
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
year ending June 30, 1918:

The Institution proper published during the year 40 papers in
the series of “Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,” an annual
report, and pamphlet copies of 37 papers from the general appendix
of the report. The Bureau of American Ethnology published an
annual report and 38 bulletins, and the United States National Mu-
seum issued 96 miscellaneous papers from the Proceedings, a new
bulletin, reprint editions of 2 bulletins, and 9 parts of volumes per-
taining to the National Herbarium.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the
Institution proper during the year was 111,283, or 1,052 more than
during the previous year. This aggregate includes 600 volumes and
memoirs of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 62,688
volumes and pamphlets of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
22,401 volumes and pamphlets of the Smithsonian Annual Reports,
8,787 special publications, including volume 3 of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory and reports on the Harriman Alaska
expedition; 15,070 volumes and pamphlets of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology publications, 1,646 Annual Reports of the American
Historical Association, 8 publications of the United States National
Museum, and 83 publications not of the Smithsonian Institution or
its branches. The National Museum distributed a total of 71,600
copies of its several publications.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.
QUARTO.
No publications of this series were issued during the year.
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.
OCTAVO.

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 57,-2 papers were pub-
lished; of volume 58, 1 paper, and title-page and contents of the vol-
ume; of volume 59, 5 papers; of volume 60, 28 papers; of volume 61,

4 papers; in all, 40 papers. These are as follows:
104
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

Volume 57.

No. 9. New York Potsdam-Hoyt Fauna. By Charles D. Walcott. Published
September 14, 1912. 54 p., 13 pls. (Publ. 2136.)

No. 10. Group terms for lower and upper Cambrian series of formations. By
Charles D. Walcott. September 16,1912. 3p. (Publ. 2137.)

Volume 58.

No. 2. Bibliography of the geology and mineralogy of tin. By Frank L. and
Eva Hess. July 29, 1912. v, 408 p. (Publ. 1987.)
Title-pages and contents. December 31, 1912. vp. (Publ. 2160.)

Volume 59.

No. 11. Expeditions organized and participated in by the Smithsonian Institu-
HOnIn 910) and AOL Duly 17, 1912:, 51 p:, 1 pl. -56ones,, (eubik:
2087.)

No. 16. New Rodents from British East Africa. By Edmund Heller. July 5,
1912. 20 p. (Publ. 2094.)

No.17. New Diptera from Panama. By J. R. Malloch. July 18, 1912. 8 p.
(Publ. 21383.)

No. 18. New species of landshells from Panama Canal Zone. By William H.
Dall. July 27, 1912. 3p.,2 pls. (Publ. 2134.)

No. 20. The recognition of Pleistocene faunas. By Oliver P. Hay. August 17,
Ola Gsp;,,10 figs, (Publ: 2139:)

Volume 60.

No. 1. Three new species of Pipunculide (Diptera) from Panama. By J. R.
Malloch. September 6, 1912. 4 p., 3 figs. (Publ. 2141.)

No. 2. New mammals from eastern Panama. By E. A. Goldman. September
20, 1912. 18 p. (Publ. 2142.)

No. 8. Descriptions of new genera, species, and subspecies of birds from Pan-
ama, Colombia, and Ecuador. By E. W. Nelson. September 27, 1912.
25 p. (Publ. 2148.)

No. 4. Rubelzul cotton: A new species of Gossypium from Guatemala. By Fred-
erick L. Lewton. October 21,1912. 2 p.,2 pls. (Publ. 2144.)

No. 5. Kokia: A new genus of Hawaiian trees. By Frederick L. Lewton.
October 22, 1912. 4p.,5 pls. (Publ. 2145.)

No. 6. The cotton of the Hopi Indians: A new species of Gossypium. By Fred-
erick L. Lewton. October 23, 1912. 10 p., 5 pls. (Publ. 2146.)

No. 7. Descriptions of one hundred and four new species and subspecies of birds
from the Barussan Islands and Sumatra. By Harry C. Oberholser.
October 26, 1912. 22 p. (Publ. 2147.)

No. 8. New genera and races of African ungulates. By Edmund Heller. No-
vember 2, 1912. 16 p. (Publ. 2148.)

No. 9. A recent meteorite fall near Holbrook, Navajo County, Arizona. By
George P. Merrill. November 21, 1912. 4 p. (Publ. 2149.)

No. 10. The crinoids of the Natural History Musuem at Hamburg. By Austin
Hobart Clark. November 7, 1912. 33 p. (Publ. 2150.)

No. 11. A fossil toothed cetacean from California, representing a new genus and
species. By Frederick W. True. November 1, 1912. 7 p., 2 pls.
(Publ. 2151.)

No. 12. New races of insectivores, bats, and lemurs from British Hast Africa.
By Edmund Heller. November 4, 1912. 18 p. (Publ. 2152.)
106

No. 18.

No. 14.

No. 15.

No. 26.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

A study of the salinity of the surface water in the North Pacific Ocean
and the adjacent enclosed seas. By Austin Hobart Clark. December 4,
1912. 338 p. (Publ. 2153.)

New mammals from the highlands of Siberia. By N. Hollister. No-
vember 29, 1912. 6p. (Publ. 2157.)

A new subspecies of crossbill from Newfoundland. By A. C. Bent,
December 12, 1912. 3p. (Publ. 2158.)

. Remains in Eastern Asia of the race that peopled America. By Ales

Hrdli¢ka. December 31, 1912. 5 p., 3 pls. (Publ. 2159.)

. Notes on American species of Peripatus, with a list of known forms.

By Austin Hobart Clark. January 25, 1918. 5p. (Publ. 2163.)

. Smithsonian pyrheliometry revised. By C. G. Abbot and L. B. Aldrich.

February 1, 1913. 7 p. (Publ. 2164.)

9. Description of a new gazelle from northwestern Mongolia. By N. Hol-

lister. February 8, 19138. 2p. (Publ. 2165.)

. Description of a new African grass-warbler of the genus Cisticola. By

Edgar A. Mearns. February 14, 1918. 2 p. (Publ. 2166.)

. Two new subspecies of birds from the slopes of Mount Pirri, eastern

Panama. By HE. W. Nelson. February 26, 1918. 2 p. (Publ. 2167.)

. Descriptions of new mammals from Panama and Mexico. By EH. A.

Goldman. February 28, 1913. 20 p. (Publ. 2168.)

. Two new mammals from the Siberian Altai. By N. Hollister. March

18, 1913. 3 p. (Publ. 2171.)

. Diagnosis of a new beaked whale of the genus Mesoplodon from the

coast of North Carolina. By Frederick W. True. March 14, 1913.
2pea  (Publy 21'72:) ’

Notice of the occurrence of a Pleistocene camel north of the Arctie
Circle. By James Williams Gidley. March 21, 1918. 2 p. (Publ.
2173.)

. An extinct American eland. By James Williams Gidley. March 22,

1915.) 3) p:,.4, pl... (Publ. 2174.)

. A new vole from eastern Mongolia. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. March 31,

1913 e2epe tpl (Publis 2u75:)

. Voleanoes and climate. By C. G. Abbot and F. E. Fowle. March 28,

1913. 24 p., 3 figs. (Publ. 2176.)
Volume 61.

Description of the skull of an extinct horse, found in central Alaska.
By Oliver P. Hay. June 4, 1913. 18 p., 2 pls. (Publ. 2181.)

Report on fresh-water Copepoda from Panama, with descriptions of
new species. By C. Dwight Marsh. June 20, 1913. 30 p., 5 pls.
(Publ. 2182.)

Saffordia, a new genus of ferns from Peru. By William R. Maxon.
May 26, 1913. 5 p., 2 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 2183.)

. A new dinosaur from the lance formation of Wyoming. By Charles W.

Gilmore. May 24, 1913. 5 p., 5 figs. (Publ. 2184.)

The following papers of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions were in press at the close of the fiscal year:

No. 11.

Volume 57.

Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. New Lower Cambrian subfauna.
By Charles D. Walcott. 309-326 p., 50-54 pls. (Publ. 2185.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

No. 12. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. Cambrian formations of the
Robson Peak district, British Columbia and Alberta, Canada. By
Charles D. Walcott. 3827-348 p., 55-59 pls. (Publ. 2186.)

No. 138. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. Dikelocephalus and other gen-
era of the Dikelocephalinse. By Charles D. Walcott. 345-408 p., 60—
70 pls. (Publ. 2187.)

Volume 59.

No. 19. Early Norse Visits to North America. By William H. Babcock. iii,
213 p., 10 pls. (Publ. 21388.)

Volume 60.

No. 23. The influence of the atmosphere on our health and comfort in confined
and crowded places. By Leonard Hill, Martin Flack, James Me-
Intosh, R. A. Rowlands, and H. B. Walker. Hodgkins Fund. 96 p.
(Publ. 2170.)

No. 30. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1912.
76 p., 82 figs. (Hnd of volume.) (Publ. 2178.)

Volume 61.

No. 1. The White Rhinoceros. By Edmund Heller. 77 p., 31 pls. (Publ.
2180. )

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.
Report for 1911.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1911 was received
from the Public Printer in completed form in January, 1913.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and conditions of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1911. xii, 688 p., 97 pls. (Publ. 2095.)

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general ap-
pendix of the annual report for 1911, were issued in pamphlet form:

The gyrostatic compass. By H. Marchand. 5p., 3 pl. (Publ. 2096.)

Radiotelegraphy. By G. Marconi. 15 p.,1 pl. (Publ. 2097.)

Multiplex telephony and telegraphy by means of electric waves guided by wires.
By George O. Squier. 21 p.,1 pl. (Publ. 2098.)

Recent experiments with invisible light. By R. W. Wood. 12 p., 6 pls. (Publ.
2099. )

What electrochemistry is accomplishing. By Joseph W. Richards. 16 p. (Publ.
2100.)

Ancient and modern views regarding the chemical elements. By William
Ramsay. 15 p. (Publ. 2101.)

The fundamental properties of the elements. By Theodore William Richards.
Avp. (Publ. 2102.)

The production and identification of artificial precious stones. By Noel Heaton.
18 p., 3 pls. (Publ. 2103.)

The sterilization of drinking water by ultra-violet radiations. By Jules Cour-
mont. 11 p. (Publ. 2104.)

The legal time in various countries. By M. Philippot. 8 p. Map. (Publ.
2105. )
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

Some recent interesting developments in astronomy. By J. S. Plaskett. 16
p. (Publ. 2106.)

The age of the earth. By J. Joly. 23 p. (Publ. 2107.) .

International air map and aeronautical marks. By Ch. Lallemand. 8p. (Publ.
2108. ) :

Geologic work of ants in tropical America. By J. C. Branner, 31 p., 1 pl.
(Publ, 2109.)

On the value of the fossil floras of the arctic regions as evidence of geological
climates. By A. G. Nathorst. 10 p. (Publ. 2110.)

Recent advances in our knowledge of the production of light by living organ-
isms. By F. Alex. McDermott. 18 p. (Publ. 2111.)

Organie evolution; Darwinian and de Vriesian. By N. C. Macnamara. 16
Da (eublss 225)

Magnalia nature; or the greater problems of biology. By D’Arey Wentworth
Thompson. 15 p. (Publ, 2113.)

A history of certain great horned owls. By Charles R. Keyes. 11 p, 8 pls.
(Publ. 2114.)

The passenger pigeon. By Pehr Kalm (1759) and John James Audubon (1831).
US jek IT Gea oil ab lsy))

Note on the iridescent colors of birds and insects. By A. Mallock. 8 p., 3 pls.
(Publ. 2116.)

On the positions assumed by birds in flight. By Bentley Beetham, 7 p., 8 pls.
(Publ. 2117.) ;

The garden of serpents, Butantan, Brazil. By S. Pozzi. 6 p. (Publ. 2118.)

Some useful native plants from New Mexico. By Paul C. Standley. 16 p.,
13 pls. (Publ. 2119.)

The tree ferns of North America. By William R. Maxon. 29 p.,15 pls. (Publ.
2120.)

The value of ancient Mexican manuscripts in the study of the general develop-
ment of writing. By Alfred M. Tozzer. 14 p.,5 pls. (Publ. 2121.)

The discoverers of the art of iron manufacture. By W. Belck. 15 p. (Publ.
2122.

The Kabyles of north Africa. By A. Lissauer. 16 p., 12 pls. (Publ. 2128.)

Chinese architecture and its relation to Chinese culture. By Ernst Boersch-
mann. 29p.,10 pls. (Publ. 2124.)

The Lolos of Kientchang, western China By A. F. Legendre. 18 p., 4 pls.
(Publ. 2125.)

The physiology of sleep. By R. Legendre. 16 p. (Publ. 2126.)

Profitable and fruitless lines of endeavor in public health work. By Edwin O.
Jordan. 8p. (Publ. 2127.)

Factory sanitation and efficiency. By C.-K. A. Winslow. 6p. (Publ. 2128.)

The physiological influence of ozone. By Leonard Hill and Martin Flack.
12 p. (Publ. 2129.)

Traveling at high speeds on the surface of the earth and above it. By H. S.
Hele-Shaw. 21 p. (Publ. 21380.)

Robert Koch, 1843-1910. By C. J. M. Sp.,1pl. (Publ. 2181.)

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, 1817-1911. By Lieut. Col. D. Prain. 18 p., 1 pl.
(Publ. 2182.)

Report for 1912.
The report of the executive committee and proceedings of the

Board of Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the
Secretary for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1912, both forming part
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

of the annual report of the Board of Regents to Congress, were pub-
lished in pamphlet form in December, 1912, as follows:

Report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the Board of Regents
for the year ending June 30, 1912. 22 pp. (Publ. 2155.)

Report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1912. iii, 110 p., 2 pl. (Publ. 2156.)

The general appendix to the Smithsonian Report for 1912 was in
type, but actual presswork was not completed at the close of the fiscal
year. In the general appendix are the following papers:

The year’s progress in astronomy, by P. Puiseux.

The spiral nebule, by P. Puiseux.

The radiation of the sun, by C. G. Abbot.

Molecular theories and mathematics, by Emile Borel.

Modern mathematical research, by G. A. Miller.

The connection between the ether and matter, by Henri Poincaré.

Experiments with soap bubbles, by C. V. Boys.

Measurements of infinitestimal quantities of substances, by William Ramsay.

The latest achievements and problems of the chemical industry, by Carl
Duisberg.

Holes in the air, by W. J. Humphreys.

Review of applied mechanics, by L. Lecornu.

Report on the recent great eruption of the voleano ‘‘ Stromboli,” by Frank A.
Perret.

The glacial and postglacial lakes of the Great Lakes region, by Frank B. Taylor.

Applied geology, by Alfred H. Brooks.

The relations of paleobotany to geology, by F. H. Knowlton.

Geophysical research, by Arthur L. Day.

A trip to Madagascar, the country of beryls, by A. Lacroix.

The fluctuating climate of North America, by Ellsworth Huntington.

The survival of organs and the “ culture” of living tissues, by R. Legendre.

Adaptation and inheritance in the light of modern experimental investigation,
by Paul Kammerer.

The paleogeographical relations of antarctica, by Charles Hedley.

The ants and their guests, by P. E. Wasmann.

The penguins of the antarctic regions, by L. Gain.

The derivation of the European domestic animals, by C. Keller.

Life: its nature, origin, and maintenance, by EH. A. Schifer.

The origin of life: a chemist’s fantasy, by H. E. Armstrong.

The appearance of life on worlds and the hypothesis of Arrhénius, by Alphonse
Berget.

The evolution of man, by G. Elliot Smith.

The history and varieties of human speech, by Edward Sapir.

Ancient Greece and its slave population, by S. Zaborowski.

Origin and evolution of the blond Europeans, by Adolphe Bloch.

History of the finger-print system, by Berthold Laufer.

Urbanism: A historic, geographic, and economic study, by Pierre Clerget.

The Sinai problem, by E. Oberhummer.

The music of primitive peoples and the beginnings of Huropean music, by
Willy Pastor.

Expedition to the South Pole, by Roald Amundsen.

Icebergs and their location in navigation, by Howard T. Barnes.

Henri Poincaré, his scientific work, his philosophy, by Charles Nordmann,
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.
The following special publications were issued in octavo form:

Publication lists.

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution January 1,
1913. Published February 25, 1913. vi, 31 p. (Publ. 2161.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
July 1, 1912, July 19,1912: 2) p. (Publ. 2135.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
October 1, 1912. October 28, 1912. 3p. (Publ. 2154.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
December 31, 1912. February 1, 1918. 5 p. (Publ. 2162.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
Mareh 31, 1918. April 10, 19138. 1p. (Publ. 2179.)

Zoological nomenclature.

Opinions rendered by the International Commission on Zoological Nomencla-
ture, Opinions 52-56. May 10, 1918. 12 p. (Publ. 2169.)
The following special publication was in press at the. close of the
fiscal year:
Harriman Alaska series.

Vol. 14. Monograph of Shallow-water Starfishes of the North Pacific Coast from
the Arctic Ocean to California. By Addison Emery Verrill. xii, 338 p., 110
pl. (Publ. 2140.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (0) the proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum, and (c) the bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the contributions from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

The publications issued by the National Museum during the year
comprised 96 papers of the Proceedings, 2 bulletins, and 9 parts of
Contributions from the National Herbarium.

The issues of Proceedings were as follows: Vol. 42, papers 1907 to
1922, inclusive; Vol. 43, papers 1923 to 1945, inclusive; Vol. 44, papers
1946 to 1975, inclusive; Vol. 45, papers 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981,
1982, 1983, 1984, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994,
1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2008, and 2004; a total
of 96 papers.

The bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 79. List of North American Land Mammals in the United States Na-
tional Museum, 1911. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr.
Bulletin 81. Synopsis of the Rotatoria. By Harry K. Harring.

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium (oc-

tavo) there appeared:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Last

Volume 16.

Part 3. The North American species of Nymphaea. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and
Paul C. Standley.

Part 4. Descriptions of new plants preliminary to a report upon the flora of New
Mexico. By E. O. Wooton and Paul C. Standley.

Part 5. Miscellaneous Papers. By C. V. Piper, J. N. Rose, Paul C. Standley,
W. E. Safford, and E. S. Steele.

Part 6. Three new genera of stilt palms (Iriarteacee) from Colombia, with a
synoptical review of the family. By O. F. Cook and C. B. Doyle.

Part 7. Studies in Cactacee. Part 1. By N. L. Britton and J. N. Rose.

Part 8. Relationships of the false date palm of the Florida Keys, with a synop-
tical key to the families of American palms. By O. F. Cook.

Part 9. The genus Epiphyllum and its allies. By N. L. Britton and J. N. Rose.

Volume 17.

Part 1. The lichen flora of southern California. By Hermann Edward Hasse.
Part 2. Studies of tropical American ferns. No. 4. By William R. Maxon.

There was also reprinted an edition of 500 copies of Bulletin 71,
Part 2, A monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific Ocean.
Part II. Textulariide, by Joseph A. Cushman; and an edition of 100
reprints of Bulletin 79, List of North American Land Mammals in
the United States National Museum, 1911, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.

Among the National Museum publications in press at the close of
the year were: Bulletin 80, A descriptive account of the building re-
cently erected for the departments of natural history of the United
States National Museum, by Richard Rathbun. 131 p., 34 pl, and
the annual report for 1912.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed elsewhere in the Sec-
retary’s report. The editorial work is in the charge of Mr. J. G.
Gurley.

One annual report and two new bulletins, together with a partially
revised edition of a third bulletin, were issued during the year, as
follows:

Twenty-eighth Annual Report, containing (“Accompanying Papers,” as follows:
(1) Casa Grande, by Jesse Walter Fewkes; (2) Antiquities of the Upper
Verde River and Walnut Creek Valleys, Arizona, by Jesse Walter Fewkes;
(3) Preliminary Report on the Linguistic Classification of Algonquian Tribes,
by Truman Michelson.)

Bulletin 30. Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico, edited by Fred-
erick Webb Hodge. [By concurrent resolution of Congress in August, 1912,
a reprint of this bulletin was ordered in an edition of 6,500 copies, of which
4,000 were for the use of the House of Representatives, 2,000 for the use of
the Senate, and 500 for the use of the bureau. This reprint, in which were
incorporated such desirable alterations as could be conveniently made with-
out affecting the pagination of the work, was issued in January, 1913.]
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Bulletin 52. Early Man in South America. By AleS Hrdlitka in collaboration
with William H. Holmes, Bailey Willis, Fred. Eugene Wright, and Clarence
N. Fenner.

Bulletin 54. The Physiography of the Rio Grande Valley, New Mewico, in Re-
lation to Pueblo Culture. By Edgar Lee Hewett, Junius Henderson, and Wil-
fred William Robbins.

The Twenty-ninth Annual Report (“Accompanying Paper,” The
Ethnogeography of the Tewa Indians, by John Peabody Harrington)
was in press at the close of the year.

*

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVA-
TORY.

Volume III of the Annals of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory was printed and nearly ready for distribution at the close
of the fiscal year.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
of the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1910 was published October 22, 1912, with
contents as follows:

Report of the proceedings of the twenty-sixth annual meeting of the American
Historical Association. By Waldo G. Leland, secretary.

Report of the proceedings of the seventh annual meeting of the Pacific coast
branch. By Jacob N. Bowman, secretary of the branch.

The efforts of the Danish Kings to secure the English crown after the death
of Harthacnut. By Laurence M. Larson.

The records of the privy seal. By James F. Baldwin.

Royal purveyance in fourteenth-century England in the light of Simon Islip’s
Speculum Regis. By Chalfant Robinson.

Anglo-Dutch relations, 1654-1660. By Ralph C. H. Catterall.

Some critical notes on the works of 8. R. Gardiner. By Roland G. Usher.

The Mexican policy of southern leaders under Buchanan’s administration. By
James Morton Callahan.

The decision of the Ohio Valley. By Carl Russell Fish.

North Carolina on the eve of secession. By William K. Boyd.

The inception of the Montgomery convention. By Armand J. Gerson.

The attitude of Congress toward the Pacific Railway, 1856-1862. By Allen
Marshall Kline.

The work of the Western State Historical Society, as illustrated by Nevada.
By Jeanne E. Wier.

Proceedings of the seventh annual conference of historical societies,

The study of history in secondary schools. Report of the Committee of Five.

Hleventh annual report of the public archives commission. By Herman Y.
Ames, chairman.

Appendix A. Proceedings of the second annual conference of archivists.

Appendix B. Report on the archives of the State of Indiana. By Harlow
Lindley.

|
)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 118

Appendix C. Report on the archives of the State of Kentucky. By Irene T.
Myers.

Appendix D. Report on the archives of the State of Nebraska. By Addison E.
Sheldon.

Appendix EH, Notes on the archives of the Philippines. By James A. Robertson.

Writings on American History, 1910. By Grace G. Griffin.

The report for 1911, in two volumes, was sent to the printer on
January 9, 1913, and at the close of the year was nearly ready for
distribution. The contents are as follows:

Volume I.

Report of the proceedings of the twenty-seventh annual meeting of the American
Historical Association. By Waldo G. Leland, secretary.
Report of the proceedings of the eighth annual meeting of the Pacific coast
branch. By H. W. Edwards, secretary of the branch.
The archives of the Venetian Republic. By Theodore F. Jones.
Materials for the history of Germany in the sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
turies. By Sidney B. Fay.
The materials for the study of the English cabinet in the eighteenth century.
By Edward Raymond Turner.
Francois de Guise and the taking of Calais. By Paul van Dyke.
Factions in the Hnglish privy council under Elizabeth. By Conyers Read.
Anglo-Dutch relations, 1671-1672. By Edwin W. Pahlow.
American-Japanese intercourse prior to the advent of Perry. By Inazo Nitobe.
Colonial society in America. By Bernard Moses.
French diplomacy and American politics, 1794-1795. By James Alton James.
The insurgents of 1811. By D. R. Anderson.
The tariff and the public lands from 1828 to 1838. By Raynor G. Wellington.
The “Bargain of 1844” as the origin of the Wilmot proviso. By Clark H.
Persinger.
Monroe and the early Mexican revolutionary agents. By Isaac Joslin Cox.
Public opinion in Texas preceding the Revolution. By Hugene C. Barker.
Relations of America with Spanish America, 1720-1744. By H. W. V. Tem-
perley.
The genesis of the Confederation of Canada. By Cephas D. Allin.
Proceedings of the eighth annual conference of historical societies.
List of European historical societies.
Twelfth report of the public archives commission. By Herman V. Ames, chair-
man.
Appendix A. Proceedings of the third annual conference of archivists.
Appendix B. Report on the archives of the State of Colorado. By James F.
Willard.
Appendix C. List of commissions and instructions to governors and lieuten-
ant governors of American and West Indian Colonies, 1609-1784.
Writings on American history, 1911. By Grace G. Griffin.

Volume ITI.

Ninth report of the historical manuscripts commission: Correspondence of
Alexander Stephens, Howell Cobb, and Robert Toombs.

44863°—sM 1913-8
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Fifteenth Annual Report of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution for the year
ending October 11, 1912, was communicated to Congress March 19,

1913.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. To this committee
have been referred the manuscripts proposed for publication by the
various branches of the Institution, as well as those offered for print-
ing in the Smithsonian publications. The committee also considered
forms of routine, blanks, and various matters pertaining to printing
and publication, including the qualities of paper suitable for text
and plates. Twenty-two meetings were held and 138 manuscripts

were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.
A. Howarp Crarn, Hditor.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Bitte, Se ee
APPENDIX 9.
HODGKINS FUND.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE LANGLEY AERO-
DYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

OFFICIAL STATUS.

Authorization —On May 1, 1918, the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, approving a general scheme submitted by Secretary
Walcott, authorized the secretary, with the approval of the executive
committee, to reopen the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory; to
appoint an advisory committee; to add, as means are provided, other
laboratories and agencies; to group them into a bureau organization ;
and to secure the cooperation with them of the Government and. other
agencies.

Functions.—The committee is to advise as to the organization and
work of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory and of the bureau
organization when adopted, and the coordination of their activities
with the kindred labors of other establishments, governmental and
private; it is to plan for such theoretical and experimental investiga-
tions, tests, and reports as may serve to increase the safety and
effectiveness of aerial locomotion for the purposes of commerce,
national defense, and the welfare of man. But neither the com-
mittee nor the Smithsonian Institution will promote patented devices,
furnish capital to inventors, or manufacture commercially, or give
regular courses of instruction for aeronautical pilots or engineers.

The organization, under regulations to be established and fees to °
be fixed by the secretary, approved by the Smithsonian executive
committee, may exercise its functions for the military and civil de-
partments of the Government of the United States, and also for any
individual, firm, association, or corporation within the United States;
provided, however, that such department, individual, firm, associa-
tion, or corporation shall defray the cost of all material used and of
all services of persons employed in the exercise of such functions.

With the approval of the Secretary of the Institution, the com-
mittee is to collect aeronautical information, such part of the same as
may be valuable to the Government, or the public, to be issued in
bulletins and other publications.

1 Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vel. 62, No. 1, 1913.
115
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Se > ae

Membership and Privileges—The advisory committee is to be
composed of the director of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory, —
when appointed, and one member to be designated by the Secretary —

of War, one by the Secretary of the Navy, one by the Secretary of —

Agriculture, and one by the Secretary of Commerce, together with

such other persons, to be designated by the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, as may be acquainted with the needs of aeronau- —

tics, the total membership of such committee not to exceed 14.

The members of the advisory committee, as such, are to serve

without compensation, but will have refunded the necessary expenses

incurred by them in going to Washington to attend the meetings of

the committee and returning therefrom, and while attending the
meetings.

Approval of the President—On May 9, 1913, the President of the
United States, by request of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-

tution, approved the designation of representatives of the above-

named departments to serve on the advisory committee.
ORGANIZATION.

Officers.—The advisory committee, as constituted at its organiza-
tion meeting, convened by Secretary Walcott at the Smithsonian
Institution, May 28, 1913, comprises a chairman, a recorder, and
12 additional members, all of whom are to serve for one year. The
officers are to be elected annually on or about May 6, and the mem-
bers for the ensuing year are to be appointed prior to the date of
such election.

The chairman. has general supervision of the work of the advisory
committee, presides at its meetings, receives the reports of the sub-
committees, and makes an annual report to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. Said report must include an account of

_the work done for any department of the Government, individual,
firm, association, or corporation, and the amounts paid by them to
defray the cost of material and services, as hereinbefore mentioned.

The recorder keeps the minutes of the meetings of the committee

and assists the chairman in conducting correspondence and preparing
reports pertaining to the business of the committee.
Subcommittees.—The chairman, with the approval of the advisory —
committee, may appoint standing and special subcommittees to per]
form such functions as may be assigned to them.
The standing subcommittees may have assigned to them investiga-

tions and tests of a permanent character, which they may prosecute —

{
}
;

from year to year and on which they are to make quarterly reports —

to the chairman, followed by an annual report. Each subcommittee
comprises a chairman, who must be a member of the advisory com-
mittee, and others, chosen by him from that committee or elsewhere.

}
»

i
4
4
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. TL
AGENCIES, RESOURCES, AND FACILITIES.

Smithsonian Institution—The advisory committee has been pro-
vided by the Smithsonian Institution with suitable office headquarters,
an administrative and accounting system, library and publication
facilities, lecture and assembly rooms, and museum space for aero-
nautic models. The Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory has an
income provided for it not to exceed $10,000 the first year (of which
$5,000 has been allotted), and $5,000 annually for five years.

United States Bureau of Standards.—For the exact determina-
tion of aerophysical constants, the calibration of instruments, the
testing of aeronautic engines, propellers, and materials of construc-
tion, the committee has the cooperation of the United States Bureau
of Standards, from which the Secretary of Commerce has designated
one representative.

This bureau has a complete equipment for studying the mechanics
of materials and structural forms used in air-craft; for standard-
izing the physical instruments—thermometers, barographs, pressure
gauges, etc.—used in air navigation; and for testing the power,
efficiency, etc., of aeronautical motors in a current of air representing
the natural conditions of flight.

In these general branches the technical staff of the bureau is pre-
pared to undertake such theoretical and experimental investigations
as may come before the advisory committee on behalf of either the
Government or private individuals or organizations.

United States Weather Bureau.—For studies of and reports on
every phase of aeronautic meteorology, besides the usual forecasting,
the committee has the cooperation of the United States Weather
Bureau, from which the Secretary of Agriculture has designated one
representative.

This bureau has an extensive library of works on or allied to
aeronautics, an instrument division for every type of apparatus for
studying the state of the atmosphere, a whirling table of 30-foot
radius for standardizing anemometers, a complete kite equipment
with power reel, and a sounding balloon equipment with electrolytic
hydrogen plant, all of which are available for scientific investigations.
For special forecasts, anticipating field tests or cross-country voyages,
the general service of the bureau may be called upon.

War and Navy Departments.—These departments, while especially
interested in aeronautics for national defense, can be of service in
advancing the general science. Each has an aeronautical library;
each has an official representative in foreign countries who reports
periodically on every important phase of the art, whether civil or
military; each has an assignment of officers who design, test, and
operate air craft, and who determine largely the scope and character
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of their development; each has its aeronautic station equipped with
machines in actual service throughout the year. Besides various
aviation establishments, the War Department has a balloon plant at
Fort Myer, Va., and at Omaha, Nebr.; the Navy has its marine model
basin, useful for special experiments in aeronautics, its extensive
shops at the Washington Navy Yard, available for the alteration or
repair of air craft or the manufacture of improved military types,
and at Fort Myer three lofty open-work steel towers suitable for
studies in meteorology or aerodynamics in the natural wind. Further-
more, the Navy Department has detailed an officer for special re-
search in aeronautics at one of the principal engineering schools.
Because of their fundamental interest in aeronautics, each of these
departments has two representatives on the advisory committee,
and each will be able to place at the service of the committee one or
more skilled aviators and aeroplanes for systematic experimentation.

PRESENT NEEDS.

In presenting the needs of the organization, it is well to remark
that the Smithsonian Institution possesses the unique character of
being a private organization having governmental functions and
prerogatives. It can receive appropriations directly from Congress;
it can be the recipient or the custodian of private funds for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge; it can deposit such private funds
with the United States Treasury, or place them otherwise, as may be
required by the donor. Likewise, it can be the recipient or custodian
of material objects representing any province of nature or any
branch of human knowledge or art. This unique character allows the
public to anticipate or supplement the cooperation of Congress in
promoting the aerodromical (aeronautical ) work of the Tasticanees

Endowment funds.—Persons approving the purpose of the organi-
zation and desiring its continuity and permanence can not do better
than to provide for it a steady income, either for general or for
specific use. Individual endowment funds bearing the name of the
giver or other person, and presented to the Smithsonian Institution,
or placed in its custody at the disposal of the committee, may be
recommended; also collective funds bearing the name of a society,
organization, or section of the country, whether in the interest of
scientific progress or of national defense.

Temporary funds.—F or the prompt achievement of definite results,
funds may well be offered for immediate application, both of prin-
cipal and interest; as, for example, for the erection of laboratories or
other buildings; for the purchase of experimental air craft, or appa-
ratus, instruments, etc.

Most needed is an expansion of the Langley Aerodynamical Labo-
ratory providing a large and a small wind tunnel, ampler shops, and

 . a. ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 119

instrument and model rooms. Adjacent to this, or forming a part
of it, may well be the headquarters of the committee, with the col-
lections of aeronautic publications and exhibits, and with designing
rooms where plans for air craft may be matured by fabricators in
consultation with the technical staff. This new building, if placed
on the Smithsonian grounds, should be of good architecture and cost
not less than $100,000.

Of immediate importance is an air-craft field laboratory, adjacent
to ample flying space of land and water, and adapted to assembling,
adjusting, and repairing several full-scale land and water aeroplanes,
and subjecting them to indoor tests and measurements, as of stress,
strain, factor of safety, center of gravity, moment of inertia, work-
ing condition, etc. One such plant suitably located would serve all
governmental and civilian requirements for the present. A suitable
site is the public land in Potomac Park in the vicinity of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Here might be held air-craft competitions under
the auspices of the Government.

Prizes and awards—As a stimulus to the highest aeronautic
achievement, or as an honorable recognition thereof, suitable prizes
or awards might advantageously be offered. Provision should be
made for liberal cash prizes for competitive tests of motors, pro-
pellers, etc., in a purely scientific way not trenching upon the prov-
ince of aero clubs.

Fellowships—¥ or the prosecution of special aeronautic investiga-
tions in cooperation with the advisory committee, educational insti-
tutions and scientific or engineering organizations should be pro-
vided with research fellowships whose incumbents may have the
counsel of the committee and the advantage of its equipments.

Until adequate appropriations have been made by the Government
the activities of the organization and committee will have to be
sustained largely by private resources.

"1 rari9- teh shat a, Ae % re

Biase! ae eat ne
Membr iw ahi ude qile Gan cedttied tecue! Re aee yee
i ee ae!

EAE aegis DU cathe RST SABO haw pyasd er ae ahi 8 ut
ae Medes saeco | Rak aay «ats FE Lin PORES phage Le Bh

oe ee ras. (yeieol oe iihudttne Set aly Be Sgt)
Miseous ad Ant das ratte sth Mee
j gem te WL oi icp. oA teat Bai

(geste hidhs han Tied
es. yea! 7 oes esi f
y r : xeu8 ) 5 wlte toon

: m (ie tg oath

i Beale | ij ita

te +

yun a, ash) a8 riGihice® HI oe bee! SP edie ;
, ale iy

figivn) i t) eihikwpeeyee
viritos YROSEN NE
ek eek ES ie aL Uy CHPeoe! ri y
Mtl tay ae ink ee)

ae te yea he
salir e Ghd, Wie OOF Bn) @

AI 39
P “y ¥

tf Ay pi Bool bree oh .
ae me:

Sapte Oe he ea
reacts {ou i ENteeete oY ae

sFah git Hip: di a

ates kcal hi
3 vars e

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1918.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature for the year ending June 30, 1918, together with balances
of previous appropriations:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Condition of the fund July 1, 1913.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

eMieStmOnStANPMSOM: o4Gl20 22 $515, 169. 00
Pesimiiynesicy.of smithson, 1867_--...-_---.---_-_- $2 a 26, 210. 63
DEpoOxineromosayines Of Income, 1867_-...____. -. 108, 620. 37
Bemiestvoraaimes: Hamilton, 18752. -._ $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
——_—__—_——. 2, 000. 00
Benmeraousimeon label, 1880 2 2 ee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881____________________ 51, 500. 00
SaennomasG) Hodgkins, 189122. 8 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894_____________ 8, 000. 00
epost trom savings of income, 19038. - {ee ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1907____________-_----- 7, 918. 69
Weposit tromysavings of-income, 1913.2 ~~~. 636. 94
Bequest of (William Jones Rhees, 1913_.-_-_.__... 2 set 251. 95
Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert Stan-
aTPAVCL VA) MLO pia asst o DA oh ke ee et ee 9, 692, 42
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury__----~ 955, 500. 00

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) _____________ $42, 000. 00

Motel permeameter Ne ee ee ae ee Re 997, 500. 00

Also three small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery,
of Washington, D. C., one of the original four pieces and part of another haying
been sold during the year and the proceeds deposited in the United States
Treasury as an addition to the permanent fund.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States’ bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions
of the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution,
and the act approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds.is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate
received from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and
yields only a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1912, to June 80, 1913.

RECEIPTS.
Croteonsceposit wUly 1, 1912 280 ee ee ee $338, 060. 09
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
quer iulyelet Oia and Jan, 1, 1913-2. 0 een $56, 695. 12
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds due July 1, 1912,
PUR EOL Mme ACTINIUM ILO) Trey iu iy Wa Lh ee ld se, we a 1, 680. 00

Repayments, rentals, publications, sale of real estate, ete. 17, 920.12
Contributions from various sources for specific purposes_ 16, 575. 50

92, 870. 74
125, 930. 83
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paces carerand: repairs... 2 eee 5, 715. 66
PUMEMMTIne AMO TXOUPeS 2.2 4 bP a ee A ee eee 1, 396. 97
General expenses :
Sede INT NCS mpenmnenpeg a oe A er ors arr yore, ele $18, S04. 31
Sipe acanir eSrs poem rete oe CE ce SY ee 339. 00
IeRRE ORC UTpVpren epee tal eet So tN ee ce ee 810. 18
Postage, telegraph, and telephone____—~=—_--_-____ 710. 29
TIRES ai pees cree Sir ay ee A ee ee 98. 85
LE Eri Seat TSU US Sr ee 2 058s0e
Rea TST e1)e acne ed Se toe a ee 2, 448. 74
TEU SulanG Us INES) 0 ches Pi LRT be EERE Pe 91. 26
————— _ 25, 361. 10
TL LS EL eR epee Meee Mer ey Caen TIE: 2, 892. 50
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellaneous: collections —..- 24.) 2. ee 4, 986. 32
JEX(E§ a0 TS) Sale a SI et AL Ase OEE Ses eee Pe 825.18
SHecla A pUDlICATIONS Lt kt sta easy ey Crees 454. 51
Publications supplies#.42— 2. + 3 ph ee ee 306. 27
SST ES Ce oe eS 8 CB eee LIE RE op 6, 558. 00
————— _ 18, 110. 28
Dixplorations,, researches, and collections) 2220282 2.222 ee 20, 8938. 48
Hodgkins specifie fund, researches and publications_____________--_ 1, 664. 96

International’ Mxchanges 200 25 ook 2 ee ee ee 4, 289. 92
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 123

(CREB Reyee Cag HIRANO Rae 2 BSC MUD es 0s oe da ep a $29. 63

a VoNEeS tor MelO EXPENSES, ELCs. 2 i. aah ee ee 6, 805. 67
Wepositeatorcredi of permanent fund 2.02 Ces ee 10, 581. 31
pene, aecrodynamical Uaboratory——-—- 90 2 48. 00
92, 289. 43

Balance, June 30, 19138, deposited with the Treasurer of the
TTP ee gh [SURROGATE A la ee Nee aa Meee Ns LL 33, 641. 40

125, 930. 83

By authority your executive committee again employed Mr. Wil-
liam L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the receipts
and disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the period
covered by this report. The following certificate of examination
supports the foregoing statement, and is hereby approved:

WASHINGTON, D. C., July 31, 1913.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution.

Sirs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913, and certify the following to be a
eorrect statement:

areas ifrseemrnen ce Ne eee $92, STO. T4
VG GT STOTENES Cire SST Se TE ee 92, 289. 43
Excess of receipts over disbursements______________________ 581. 31
Seinen ner ihvenl | TOU 2 kee ed ee eee 33, 060. 09
Rainceronm hand sume oO, 1913-2. 33, 641. 40
Balance shown by Treasury statement June 30, 1918______________ 39, 342. 24
MMR TICIoO NCHeCKS: 222 be ot eee 5, 700. 84
erence: gune oO. LOTS. 2 an i el en oe ee 33, 641. 40

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
.year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of
the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in con-
nection with the books of the Institution and agree with them, excepting voucher
No. 3514, to Andrew D. White for $50, which was canceled together with check
after entry upon the books, for which credit will be given in July account.

(Signed ) WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of
the Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and Other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress and will be found in the printed
document.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1913 intrusted by Congress to the care of
the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations at
the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June
30, 1913:

wars Balance

July 1, 1912. June 30, 1913.

$5. 02 1 $5.02

2,973.13 31

32, 090. 00 4,065. 41

580. 64 1365.51

2,576. 64 50.56

ee) sae

b 09. 4.

3, 802. 73 612.59

13, 000 Be as 38

4.50 4.50

682.04 25.95

7,500. 00 681.58

MlevAtOrs Nutibosonian Building, 19UI 202221) 2} 2 ee eee oe 946.06 1946.06
National Museum—

Mims angeixtures, 19M fe lice cn. swt ae eee Nae 287.04 1 287.04

HrmanITe yaa fixtures 1912.25. fave. ee cee ake eee 37, 359. 32 1,54

ete MOUS UTES 1913): os... ok seine reeks One seee tease eeenanee 50, 000. 00 11, 617.95

ean PrenOichtineIOUL oe. 2 5oc2 sec nese gees eahsece Sec eens 4,153.20 1 4,153.20

igs airs uae [i atedny pho At Up eae eee ee gee anon pee ere yg. 1S 4, 036. 43 124. 68

Delain at oy ita ba [ee Soe ee eet ae Sree os yrs 50, 000. 00 12, 689. 65

lerceervatiomorcollections, 1911.2... oo. secs ce cence geese mses seer 7,030. 94 11,132.28

ETeseVvanom OLcolechions, 1912 0. iio... ne eae enc eta seein 8, 932.37 1,355. 71

iareceivarionmoveolechions, 1913.00 02 2.0. 2. veal ook yee 300, 000. 00 17, 393.54

ES OORA LGM ieten Ne cists cesses cu cisteslnonte sesouse ce eb see ty aS Ey eas 42.76 114,97

TRYCIOL SS, LI A eer ne a NS ee ey aS 690. 30 26.54

TS EPN MMO EERE TNED tee ime noe se cea ceves ntlen cee cece ee cee se eee eee 2, 000. 00 845.21

LESS EBiy NETRA ng 900:00))|2c0 = eee

emimamome pains, VOUT oc ites casa ealeinle oo Mage Soe ees 108.19 1108.19

PEMUGUTI OOD HITS ALO se icinc ble cosa cebes Leese esse eee eee seme eee 4,751.95 18. 44

Emp erOM AES MOIS ek ee eee tbls. Bee ee 10, 000. 00 576.05

PamGineeNaional Museum? : <i.) 2: eS yo EE ee 1,675. 65 1,613.25

Mtaeanlcolosical Park, 1911.........-.222-..sc0seescec-oseecsese nes 10. 74 1 40. 74

Renan oOMerWPark 1919. 5.) oe re eae to ee eee 4,970.35 186. 83

Manion ieeoolnpieaubank MOIS co koe a nie ee ae 100, 000. 00 9,459. 75

Bridge over Rock Creek, National Zoological Park.................-.---.--- 20, 000. 00 18, 224. 02

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.
Statement of estimated income from the Smithsonian fund and fron, other
sources, accrued and prospective, available during the fiscal year ending
June 80, 1914.

PaAmerrtINeroOn LOT. 8 eee $338, 641. 40
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,
Ateriiyes tole. and Jan. 1, 19140 0008 oe eee $57, 726. 33
Tuterest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1913,
Syst -iptoe  IU3 9 T hp Ue Ba A as a eee er cactee  oe eee  O 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of
SV GLH ELNVECEIS LEY CL SS A, SR Be a kL 7, 800. 00
WENGNIESELOL SPCCINIC PUTPOSES2. 2 a 12, 000. 00
79, 206. 38
Total available for year ending June 30, 1914__________..____ 112, 847.7

Respectfully submitted.
A. O. Bacon,

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BE LL,
Joun DawzeEt1,

Executive Committee.
Wasurneton, D. C., Vovember 22, 1913.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1913.

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 12, 1912.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; Senator S. M. Cullom; Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge; Senator A. O. Bacon; Representative John
Dalzell; Representative Scott Ferris; Representative Irvin S. Pep-
per; Dr. Andrew D. White; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; Mr.
Charles F. Choate, jr.; Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.; the Hon. Charles
W. Fairbanks; and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

SELECTION OF TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.

The secretary, in the absence of a presiding officer, called the meet-
ing to order.
On motion, the Chief Justice was invited to the chair.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF DEATH OF CHANCELLOR.

The secretary announced the death of Vice President Sherman,
chancellor of the Institution.

Senator Lodge submitted the following resolutions, which were
unanimously adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have received
the sad intelligence of the death on October 80, 1912, of James Schoolcraft
Sherman, Vice President of the United States and chancellor of the Institu-
tion: Therefore be it
Resolved, That in the passing away of this distinguished official the country

has lost a man whose unsullied public career and blameless private life marked

him as one of the best exemplars of the highest type of American patriotism
and citizenship; while this Institution has been deprived of the association of

’ a regent and presiding officer whose loyalty to its purposes and zeal in its inter-

ests have been an inspiration to his colleagues;

Resolved, That we tender to the family of Mr. Sherman our respectful and
sincere sympathy in their great bereavement;

Resolved, That an engrossed copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the
family of the late chancellor.

ELECTION OF CHANCELLOR.

On motion, it was
Resolved, That the Chief Justice of the United States be elected

chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution.
125
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the appointment, by jeint resolution of
Congress, approved by the President, of Dr. Andrew D. White, to
serve until June 26, 1918, and of the Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, to
serve until July 3, 1918.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Senator Bacon, chairman of the executive committee, presented
the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1914, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by
the secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTHE.

Senator Bacon, chairman, submitted the report of the executive
committee for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1912.
On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF PERMANENT COMMITTHE.

The secretary, on behalf of the committee, presented the following
report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1912:

Research Corporation.—The development of the Research Corpo-
ration, which is handling the Cottrell patents offered to the Insti-
tution for the benefit of research, has been progressing steadily
during the past year.

The corporation was organized under the laws of the State of
New York on February 26, 1912, in essential accordance with the
plans explained at the last meeting of the board, on February 8, 1912.

At present a number of installations are being made for the precipi-
tation process that in the near future will bring in a revenue to the
corporation.

The work of the corporation has grown so rapidly that it has been
found necessary to increase the technical staff and office accommo-
dations in New York.

Tt must be understood that in the development of any business of
this character several years are required for experimentation and the
installation of machinery for getting it on a successful working
basis.

The George W. Poore bequest.—Three independent appraisals have
been made of the valuation of the real estate embraced in the Poore
bequest, and a recent offer for the purchase of a few of the lots has
been recommended for acceptance by the permanent committee.

“\
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 127

A recent report from the executor shows that the estate is being
settled as rapidly as possible.

Avery bequest.—Since the last meeting an offer of $5,335 net has
been received for an unimproved lot on East Capitol Street, and
has been accepted.

On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary presented his annual report on the operations of
the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 380, 1912.

He stated, in relation to the publications issued by the Institution,
that since the last annual meeting of the Regents there had been
printed by the Institution and its branches a total of 161 publica-
tions, aggregating about 7,000 pages of text and 650 plates of illus-
trations. Of this aggregate 90 volumes and pamphlets (2,369 pages
and 193 plates) pertained to the Institution proper; 68 volumes and
pamphlets (3,500 pages and 397 plates) related directly to the work
of the National Museum; and 3 volumes (1,041 pages and 68 plates)
were descriptive of investigations by the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The total number of copies of all publications dis-
tributed during the year was about 180,000.

On motion, the report was accepted.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTER ON THE LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

Senator Lodge, chairman of the committee, submitted the follow-
ing report:

“ Your committee on the Langley memorial tablet begs to report
that Mr. John Flanagan’s design, which was accepted by the board
at the annual meeting on December 14, 1911, has been cast in bronze,
and is now in the place selected for it, the north vestibule of the
Smithsonian building.”

In this connection the secretary read the following letter:

DECEMBER 10, 1912.
Hon. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

DeEar Dr. WAtcotTT: I have the pleasure of informing you that the Aero Club
of Washington expects to celebrate Langley Day on Tuesday, May 6, 1913, by
holding an aviation meet on the Potomac River front, probably at the Wash-
ington Barracks, and will be pleased to have the Smithsonian Institution
participate in that event and any functions which may be associated with it.

The Army and Navy aviators and various wealthy aero clubmen at large,
who own and operate land and water aeroplanes, have expressed their wish to
fly on that occasion.

Invitations to the meet will be sent to the officers (and their wives) of the
Aero Club of America and to the presidents of the 20 or more affiliated clubs,
in addition to the usual Washington list, comprising representatives of the
official and social life of the city.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

If the Smithsonian Institution contemplate any ceremony for that date or
thereabout, the board of management of the Aero Club will be pleased to
accommodate its plans to any you may have in view for that time.

Very truly, yours,
A. F. ZAHM,
Secretary Aero Club of Washington.

The secretary said that in view of the facts set forth in Dr. Zahm’s
letter it had occurred to him that the Langley Day celebration would
be a very appropriate time for the unveiling of this tablet.

On motion, the report of the committee was accepted with thanks,
and the committee requested to arrange for the unveiling of the
tablet on Langley Day.

THE LANGLEY MEDAL.

The secretary stated that at the annual meeting on December 15,
1908, the board had established the Langley medal, the first of which
had been awarded to the Wright brothers on February 10, 1910.
The committee was now considering another award, and would be
ready to report its recommendations at the meeting of the board in
February next.

THE SECRETARY’S STATEMENT.

National Museum.—The work of installation in the exhibition
halls of the new building has been pushed with so much vigor since
the beginning of the year that in the course of another month the
last of these halls, being those devoted to the mammals and to prehis-
toric archeology, should be ready for the public.

Evans collection.—It is extremely gratifying to note the continued
and very material interest of Mr. William T. Evans, of New York,
in the welfare of the National Gallery of Art. Beginning in 1907
with a tender of 50 paintings by contemporary American artists,
and twice increasing the extent of his offer, first to 100 paintings and
later to 100 artists, Mr. Evans has recently completed this important
gift, which comprises a total of 139 paintings. The collection is not
only the most prominent feature of the gallery now installed in
Washington but is also a remarkable presentation of modern Ameri-
can art.

Senator Lodge submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted :

Resolved, by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, That the
secretary be directed to convey to Mr. William T. Evans the expression of their
sense of deep obligation for his continued and valuable donations to the National
Gallery of Art, constituting a collection representative to a remarkable degree
of the work and talent of contemporary American painters.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 129
SMITHSONIAN EXPEDITIONS.

A brief résumé of the results obtained follows:

Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone.—This survey was
completed and the work accomplished was very valuable to science.
It included collections and observations of vertebrate animals, land
and fresh-water mollusks, and flowering plants (including grasses)
and ferns. Collections had been made of fishes, reptiles, and amphib-
ians, birds and mammals, and special studies and collections had
been made of the microscopic plant and animal life of the fresh
waters of the zone. Pamphlets had been issued from time to time
describing new forms of animals and plants, and as soon as the mass
of material could be worked up a more general account of the results
of the survey would be accomplished.

Rainey African expedition—The Paul J. Rainey expedition re-
ferred to at the last meeting came to a successful close during the
winter of 1911-12. Mr. Edmund Heller, a Smithsonian naturalist
and a member of the Smithsonian African expedition, accompanied
Mr. Rainey and reported collections as follows:

Pimms (laree)) 2 ee Serve ge eR ee 750
SPER ES Tine iil) paps Se ya EY ts Nt 5, 000
vostiy (JE. se co ceteree a ct ea a ee ene ES 400
og Tats) lek EUSA ee ec Bee Ree Mele a Beek ete IL
0 AOL WIVEYOUIVS) <2 8 ola RG ee eae ee 8 Meng we Bea) 3! 500

8, 650

During the entire expedition Mr. Heller was Mr. Rainey’s guest.
Mr. Rainey gave him all the native assistants that he could use and
accorded him perfect freedom as regards choice of collecting ground.

_ Mr. Heller was thus able to visit the exact regions from which ma-

terial was most needed to supplement that procured by the Smith-
sonian African expedition. After studying the mammals in the
_ British Museum Mr. Heller reported that the United States National
_ Museum now had the finest series of East African mammals in the
world.

Eighty lions were secured on the expedition, which more than
tripled the highest previous record for Africa.

The Childs-Frick African expedition—This expedition left New
York in October, 1911, and arrived at Djibouti, on the Red Sea, in
_ French Somaliland, November 22. As previously stated, it was ac-
- companied by Col. Edgar A. Mearns, United States Army, retired,
» who was a member of the Smithsonian African expedition.

The Frick party traversed the territory lying north of that visited
by: Col. Roosevelt and Mr. Rainey, covering at the samé time certain
_ parts of Abyssinia, northern British East Africa, and the: meres

44863°—sm 1913——-9
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

lying about Lake Rudolf. The expedition ended about September 1, |
1912, and the party sailed for America on September 16, |

The collections as a whole embraced plants, mammals, birds, rep-—
tiles, bactrachians, fishes, mollusks, crustaceans, and other inverte-
brates. About 5,000 birds were obtained for the National Museum.

Borneo expedition—The board would recall that Dr. W. L. Ab-
bott, a collaborator of the United States National Museum, very
generously contributed the sum of $5,000 for carrying on an expedi-
tion to Dutch East Borneo. Reports had been received that the ex-
pedition was successful, but as yet the specimens acquired had not
been shipped. )

Lyman Siberian expedition—The expedition to the Altai Moun-
tains, in Siberia, which was financed by Dr. Theodore Lyman, of
Cambridge, Mass., left Washington May 21, 1912, and returned Sep-
tember 16, 1912. As arranged, Mr. Ned Hollister, a naturalist in
the National Museum, accompanied Dr. Lyman. The expedition re-
sulted in the securing of 350 mammals, 300 birds, and 100 miscel-
laneous specimens. |

The mammals would remain in the National Museum, while the
birds were intended for the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam-
bridge. The scientific work was entirely in charge of Mr. Hollister,
assisted by an experienced alpinist, Conrad Kain. The region cov-
ered lay in the Kurai district, Government of Tomsk. The collection
of mammals was one of the mcst important received in recent years, as
the region was hitherto unrepresented in the Museum, and the fauna
was of special interest on account of its close relationship with that
of the United States.

British Columbia expedition.—Under the direction of the secretary
an expedition was undertaken in British Columbia north of the
Yellowhead Pass route of the new Grand Trunk Pacific Railway.

Outfitting at Fitzhugh, the party entered the high mountain
ranges northwest of the Yellowhead Pass, 275 miles north of the
forty-ninth parallel—the boundary between the United States and
Canada. Two of the young men of the party collected mammals,
the skins and skulls of which are now in the National Museum.

The special work of the secretary was to determine upon the best
locality for a geological section of the mountain ranges forming the
main mass of the Canadian Rockies in this region. A general section
was carried across the main range in such a manner as to ascertain
that there was a thickness of some 12,000 feet of Cambrian fossil-— |
iferous sedimentary rocks and 3,000 feet of Ordovician strata above.
In other words, the main mountain peaks and ridges of this region,
one of the most picturesque known in America, were carved by the
action of rain, frost, snow, and ice from this great series of sandstones
and limestones. ;

PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 1B)

Large collections were also made from the famous Burgess Pass
fossil locality.

Algerian eupeditionIn 1911 the attention of the board was
called to the work of Director Abbot, of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, in connection with studies of the sun as a variable star. He was
sent to Bassour, Algeria, to observe the so-called “solar constant of
radiation,” while similar observations were made at the Mount
Wilson (Cal.) station by Assistant L. B. Aldrich. These measure-
ments had been reduced and strongly confirm the supposed variability
of the sun.

In May, 1912, Mr. Abbot returned to Algeria, while Aid F. E.
Fowle made observations in California. The results were not yet
reduced, but little doubt was felt that they would be quite sufficient
to fully prove the supposed variability of the sun.

A most interesting observation was made by Messrs. Abbot and
Fowle in connection with this work. It will be recalled that on
June 6, 1912, a volcanic eruption took place in Alaska. Mr. Abbot
noted on June 19 (only 13 days after the eruption) a smoky appear-
ance in the sky, which rapidly increased. Throughout the remainder
of his stay in Algeria the sky assumed a whitish hazy appearance
and the quantity of the direct radiation from the sun was reduced
about 25 per cent below that he had observed in the preceding year.
Similarly, Mr. Fowle observed the same appearances beginning with
June 21, but owing to the greater elevation of his station on Mount
Wilson the decrease in the intensity of the direct solar radiation
was not quite so great as had been found in Algeria. Similar effects
were noted in Washington, beginning June 11, and have lasted ever
since.

Mr. Abbot made in Algeria some measurements of the radiation
diffused from the sky, and he drew the conclusion that the total
radiation of the sky and the sun combined was less during the sum-
mer of 1912 by about 7 or 8 per cent than generally during the same
months. This defect in the quantity of the radiation available to
warm the earth would naturally have produced a decrease in the

earth’s temperature. Hence the pronounced coolness of the past

summer seems to be explained as due to the world-wide dissemina-
tion of a blanket of volcanic dust from the Alaska eruption.

Lake Baikal region, Siberia.—Mr. George Mixter, of Boston, Mass.,
an experienced big-game hunter, volunteered to get material for the
Museum at and near Lake Baikal during the summer of 1912 and was
appointed a collaborator for two years. He reports the capture of

‘two bear, several Baikal seal, various small mammals, and a collec-

tion of fish from the lake, but no specimens have been received. He
has not yet returned.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

British North Borneo.—Mr. D. D. Streeter, jr., of Brooklyn, N. Y.,
volunteered to collect in British North Borneo for the Museum and ~
was appointed collaborator for two years. He left New York about —
April 15, 1912, and has sent a few reptiles and bats taken in Algeria
on his way eastward.

Alaskan boundary.—Mr. Copley Amory, jr., of Cambridge, Mass.,
volunteered to accompany the Coast and Geodetic Survey party en-
gaged in surveying the Alaskan-Canadian boundary. He was ap-
pointed collaborator of the National Museum and joined the party
in the field about July 10, 1912, remaining throughout the season.
He reports excellent results, including the capture of six or more
caribou, probably of a species hitherto known from a few skulls only,
but no specimens have yet been received.

North China—Mr. A. de C. Sowerby is making collections in
North China for the National Museum through the liberality of a
gentleman who desires that his identity be not disclosed. Mr. Sow-
erby’s work has been interrupted by the Chinese revolution, but he
has recently sent in six wild sheep, two Manchurian wapiti, and a
few other mammals, birds, and reptiles collected in northern Shansi
in May, 1912.

Siberia and Mongolia.—\ would ask the board’s attention to the
anthropological researches conducted in Siberia and Mongolia by
Dr. AleS Hrdlicka, Curator, division of physical anthropology,
United States National Museum, as mentioned on page 11 of the
annual report. Dr. Hrdiléka is now preparing for an expedition
to South America, where he will work in conjunction with the
Panama-California Exposition of San Diego. His specimens will
ultimately find their way to the National Museum.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 13, 1913.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Senator
A. QO. Bacon; Representative John Dalzell; Dr. Alexander Graham
Bell; the Hon. George Gray; Mr. Charles F. Choate, jr.; Mr.
John B. Henderson, jr.; and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENT.

The secrétary announced the reappointment of Judge Gray as a
citizen Regent, by joint resolution of Congress, approved by the
President; to serve until February 7, 1919.

PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 116433

USE OF THE AUDITORIUM IN THE NEW BUILDING OF 'THE UNITED
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

After discussion the following regulations were adopted:

1. The use of the auditorium is authorized for any meetings or other func-
tions originating with the Institution.

2. The secretary of the Institution is authorized, in his discretion, to grant
the use of the auditorium—

(a) To organizations having objects and activities directly related to
those of the Institution, and

(6b) For Government purposes upon the request of the President, the
Secretary of an Hxecutive Department, or the head of an independent
branch.

3. All requests for the use of the auditorium for purposes other than as
above indicated shall be submitted to the permanent committee, who are em-
powered to act. ;

4. All extra expenses attendant upon the use of the auditorium, except
by the Institution and its branches, shall be paid by the organization or Goy-
ernment branch having such use.

DONATION OF JOHN B. HENDERSON, JR.

The secretary stated that Mr. Henderson had donated the sum of
$500 for the construction at the Zoological Park of an outside cage
for the parrots, in which these birds were now thriving satisfactorily.

Mr. Choate offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution are hereby tendered to their colleague, Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.,

for his generosity in providing the funds requisite for the construction of an
open-air cage for certain birds at the National Zoological Park.

GIFT OF MRS. EDWARD H. HARRIMAN.

The secretary announced the gift to the Institution by Mrs. Ed-
ward H. Harriman of a set of the publication, The North American
Indian, by Edward 8. Curtis, a project involving 20 volumes and
an expenditure from first to last of nearly $1,000,000.

Hight volumes and portfolios had been issued and delivered to the
Institution, and the remaining 12 would be received as printed.

Judge Gray offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution be tendered to Mrs. Edward H. Harriman for the gift of a set of

The North American Indian, by Edward S. Curtis, and especially for the kindly
feeling that prompted her in bestowing this valuable work upon the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

The secretary spoke as follows:

“Considerable interest is being taken by the public in relation
to the disposition of the collections made by the Smithsonian African
expedition under the leadership of Col. Theodore Roosevelt, also as
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

to the people who contributed the money for paying the propor-
tionate share of the expenses of the three men sent out by the Smith-
sonian with Col. Roosevelt.

“The collections, when received, were distributed to the various
departments of the National Museum to which they pertained; the
birds were sent to the bird department, the large animals to the
mammal] department, the plants to the botanical department, and so
on. A number of groups of the large mammals have been prepared,
and a number of individual specimens mounted for exhibition pur-
poses. The greater portion of the specimens have been placed in
the study series, and the duplicates will be distributed by exchange
or otherwise.

“The groups of large mammals now mounted will shortly be
placed on exhibition in the new museum mammal hall where the
larger animals will be exhibited. Those that were on exhibition have
been temporarily withdrawn, in order to assign them to their proper
place in the classification in the hall, which is closed temporarily
pending the arrangement of the cases containing the specimens.

“Tt now seems an opportune time to make a final statement relat-
ing to the expedition, and with this in view the secretary recently
communicated with the parties who contributed to the fund, and has
thus far received replies from the following that they have no objec-
tion to their names being given to the public. In this connection the
secretary wishes to state that up to this week Col. Roosevelt has not
known who the contributers were, with the exception of Mr. Carnegie
and possibly one or two personal friends.

“Tt has not been the custom of the Institution to publish the
names of contributors to research work or expeditions conducted
under its direction until such enterprise had been completed, and only
then when the contributor had no objection to such publication.

“The contributors include Mr. Edward D. Adams, of New York
City; Hon. Robert Bacon, of Boston, Mass.; Mr. Cornelius N. Bliss,
of New York City; Mr. James Campbell, of St. Louis, Mo.; Mr.
W. Bayard Cutting, of New York City; Mr. Andrew Carnegie, of
New York City; Mr. Cleveland H. Dodge, of New York City; Mr.
K. H. Gary, of New York City; Mr. John Hays Hammond, of Wash-
ington, D. C.; Col. H. L. Higginson, of Boston, Mass.; Mr. Hennen
Jennings, of Washington, D. C.; Mr. J. S. Kennedy, of New York
City; Mr. Ralph King, of Cleveland, Ohio; Hon. George von L.
Meyer, of Washington, D. C.; Mr. D. O. Mills, of New York City;
Hon. T. H. Newberry, of Michigan; Mr. L. L. Nunn, of Provo, Utah;
Mr. H. C. Perkins, of Washington, D. C.; Mr. George W. Perkins, of
New York City; Mr. Henry Phipps, of New York City; Mrs. White-
law Reid, of New York City; Hon. Elihu Root, of Washington,
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. LS5

-D. C.; Mr. J. C. Rosengarten, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. Jacob H.
Schiff, of New York City; Mr. Isaac N. Seligman, of New York
City; Mr. O. M. Stafford, of Cleveland, Ohio; Hon. Oscar S. Straus,
of New York City; and Mr. Isidor Straus, of New York City.
“From the contributions the Smithsonian’s three-fifths’ share of
all the expenses were paid; the other two-fifths were paid by Col.
Roosevelt, which covered all his personal expenses and those of his
son and their proportionate two-fifths’ share of the total expenses
of the expedition.
“The following is the complete list of the collection made by the
expedition that have been received by the Institution:

IAI TOTES 2 ayy a BE a RR OIE VN AE Mr el Deen 5, 013
TEVMONS! co ok Dy en a OE eR FOUR EEY Ns 4, 453
Ene CNMI GUM OST Seis oe ee i ae Uy
Pomme saAmUgOaeraACMIANS 22 2 eo a Dae
TS TASSEY fect pO ER CGS AAT
eo Aenea nes Le Pe Re eee ), LDS
SBE oe hie ee a ee A os ed BNI PPPS TCS 0, 500
SIRES ok A Ce i EY NS UN 1, 500
Parco ameousmimvertebrateg=s 2 <2 650

SE OTER LL Sy Ovey era a 02) ah PSS ac a NY leone Oe 28, 169

“ As the result of this expedition the biological collections now in
the National Museum from East Africa are probably the most com-
plete and systematic of any in the world.”

AWARD OF LANGLEY MEDALS.

The committee on the Langley medal presented the following

report:

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 13, 1918.
Hon. CHagtes D. WALCOTT,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Dear Siz: The committee on the award of the Langley medal recommends
that medals be awarded to—

1. Monsieur Gustave Hiffel, for advancing the science of aerodromics by his
researches relating to the resistance of the air in connection with aviation.

2. Mr. Glenn H. Curtiss, for advancing the art of aerodromics by his suc-
cessful development of a hydroaerodrome, whereby the safety of the aviator has
been greatly enhanced.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.
JAMES MEANS.
J. A. BRASHEAR,

After remarks by Dr. Bell, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution approve
the recommendations of the committee on the Langley medal that said medal be
awarded to Gustave Hiffel and Glenn H. Curtiss for advances in the science
and art of aerodromics, respectively; and that arrangements be made to pre-

sent the medals on May 6, 1913 (Langley day).
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

The secretary brought before the board the question of the estab- —
lishment of a laboratory for the study of aerodynamics under the —
direction of the Institution. He spoke of the work done by the late
Secretary Langley under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution —
and the War Department, and of the studies being conducted by other —
nations which had regularly established laboratories.

After full discussion of the question, the following resolution was
adopted :

Resolved, That the subject matter of the secretary’s recommendations be
referred to a committee of three, to be appointed by the chancellor, to report at —
the next meeting of the board. |

The chancellor appointed as the committee Judge Gray, Dr. Bell, —
and Mr. Dalzell.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY AT PHKIN.

The secretary said:

“The American School of Archeology in China was launched at a —
meeting held at the Smithsonian Institution at 10 a. m., January 3,
1913, by a committee consisting of Dr. Harry L. Wilson, president of
the Archeological Institute of America; Dr. Charles D. Walcott, sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution; and Mr. Charles L. Freer, of
Detroit.

“ According to a statement submitted by Prof. Francis W. Kelsey,
of the University of Michigan, who appeared before. the committee
by invitation, the objects of the school are: First, to prosecute archeo-
logical research in Eastern China; second, to afford opportunity and
facilities for investigation to promising and exceptional students,
both foreign and native, in Asiatic archeology; third, to preserve
objects of archeological and cultural interest in museums in the
countries to which they pertain, in cooperation with existing or-
ganizations, such as the China Monuments Society, the Société
d’Ankor, ete.

“The management of the affairs of the school was placed in the
hands of an executive committee of five, consisting of Dr. Charles D.
Walcott, of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. Charles Henry Butler,
reporter of the Supreme Court; Dr. Harry L. Wilson, of Johns Hop- —
kins University; Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit; and Mr. Eugene ©
Meyer, jr., the New York financier.

“ Besides the above mentioned executive committee there were also —
present by invitation Prof. Francis W. Kelsey, Prof. Mitchell Car-
roll, Mr. Frederick McCormick, and Mr. William H. Holmes.

“The purposes and great possibilities of this movement for first
turning American archeological research directly to eastern Asia

PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 137
has already, since the proposal was made in October last, excited
great interest in American scientific and educational circles.

“The general committee consists of: Former President James B.
Angell, of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; former President
Charles W. Eliot, of Harvard University; William Rutherford
Mead, the New York architect; Mitchell Carroll, of Washington,
D. C.; Charles L. Hutchinson, of Chicago, Ill.; J. Pierpont Morgan,
of New York City; Charles Henry Butler, of Washington, D. C.;
Mr. Frederick McCormick, of Pekin, who organized in China the
first movement for the investigation and protection of Chinese monu-
ments; Henry White, of Washington, D. C.; Francis W. Kelsey, of
the University of Michigan; Eugene Meyer, jr., of New York City;
Willard D. Straight, secretary of the American group of banks in
China; Secretary Charles D. Walcott, of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion; Harry L. Wilson, of Johns Hopkins University; Charles L.
Freer, of Detroit, Mich.

“Dr. Walcott was elected chairman of the general committee and
Mr. Butler its secretary.

“To carry out the program looking to the formation of the Amer-
ican School of Archeology on the soil of China the Hon. Edward T.
Williams, first secretary and chargé d’affaires of the American lega-
tion in Pekin; Dr. Charles D. Tenney, American consul at Nan-
king; and the American minister to China, ex officio, were selected to
head the advisory committee in China.

“Several American archeologists appeared before the committee
during its discussions, including Mr. Edgar L. Hewett, Mr. Charles
T. Currelly, and Mr. Langdon Warner.

“Langdon Warner was selected to make a preliminary survey in
the Chinese Republic, to cover a period of a year or a year and a
half, and to report at the next annual meeting of the general com-
mittee on the advisability of establishing the American School of
Archeology in China.”

SPECIAL MEETING, THURSDAY. MAY 1. 1913.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; the Hon. Thomas R. Marshall, Vice
President of the United States; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Sena-
tor A. O. Bacon; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; the Hon. George
Gray; Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.; and the secretary, Mr. Charles

D. Walcott.
APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the appointment, by the Vice President,
of Senator A. O. Bacon and Senator William J. Stone as Regents of
the Institution.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

CHAIRMAN OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 4

Senator Bacon was reelected chairman of the executive committee.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AWARDS OF THE LANGLEY MEDAL, i.

BEAULIEUSMER, February 17, 1913.
CHARLES WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution:
I am very sensible of the great honor that you announce to me, and thank
you, begging you to transmit an expression of my appreciation to the council.
GUSTAVE EIFFEL.

CurTISS AVIATION CAMP, NorgTH ISLAND,
San Diego, Cal., February 24, 1913.
Mr. C. D. WALCOTT,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Drag Sir: I am just in receipt of a communication from the office advising
me of the recent award of the Langley medal.
This award is indeed a surprise to me and I greatly appreciate being the
recipient.
I will plan to be in Washington on May 6.
Yours, sincerely, G. H. Curtiss.

BORNEO EXPEDITION.

Announcement was made at the board meeting of February 8,
1912, that Dr. William L. Abbott, a collaborator of the Institution
and Museum for many years, had given the Institution $5,000 for
use in continuing certain collections in Borneo.

Dr. Abbott has recently sent a check for an additional $3,000 for
the work.

THH LANGLEY AHRODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

The committee on the Langley aerodynamical laboratory ap-
pointed by the Board of Regents at the meeting of February 13, sub-
mitted its report, and after full discussion the following resolutions
were adopted :

Whereas the Smithsonian Institution possesses a laboratory for the study of
questions relating to aerodynamics, which has been closed since the death of
its director, the late Dr. S. P. Langley, formerly Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution; and

Whereas it is desirable to foster and continue, in the institution with which he
was connected, the aerodynamical researches which he inaugurated :
Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby

authorizes the Secretary of the Institution, with the advice and approval of

the executive committee, to reopen the Smithsonian Institution laboratory for
the study of aerodynamics, and take such steps as in his judgment may be
necessary to provide for the organization and administration of the laboratory
on a permanent basis; ’

That the aerodynamic laboratory of the Institution shall be known as the

Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory ;

PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 139

That the functions of the laboratory shall be the study of the problems of
aerodromics, particularly those of aerodynamics, with such research and ex-
perimentation as may be necessary to increase the safety and effectiveness of
aerial locomotion for the purposes of commerce, national defense, and the wel-
fare of man;

That the secretary is authorized to secure, as far as practicable, the coopera-
tion of governmental and other agencies in the development of aerodromical
research under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEATH OF FORMER REGENT JOHN B. HENDERSON.

Judge Gray submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have heard with
profound sensibility of the death of the honorable John B. Henderson, long
time a member of the board:

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the chancellor to prepare

a suitable minute commemorative of his character as a citizen and public servant

and of his valuable service to this Institution, to be reported at the next meet-

ing of the board.

The chancellor appointed as the committee Judge Gray, Senator
Lodge, and the secretary.

26) 7 7 ; ‘
Ae vite abe sig ay ue oh Ais tea he
one ea ee raueiiens Hy/ty ih es ae ue raid ty
40s se Ly ee Wi i (udibaldoiamidadinial RP ae Fe Beek F pith Faye oa

¢
; ’ i
° hala - wy ? F } , i, ¥ a

ashen TY i.

okt PH | ” se ma! yaa, se a 4 : ¢ Vig ee my
at Baie! Pe wibee a} pes rai ohv ae Ke Apap ten if} ite Peasy”) wie ae

oe Hana id: Ue Ce Tae Pe res tok ae 7) eee ‘iam
a Ee sci, ch ed a ee:
a ” A s tying iu won
‘ee BY Ry PES AMEE pan PTC: bad et Oe eae
ag Tae sya eps OR 01h ;
Sia Rill Ose AMA a ARE i

7

st ning up

ep >
; / Ad

eae i) ie Lire ae
les Ne pile at

erat. >... sal

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1913

141
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GznrraL Aprenpix to the Annual Report of the ~
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 80 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-

inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,

meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and dis-
cussion. This method has been continued in the present report for
1913.

143
THE EARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS:

By Dr. GrorcGe. ELLERY HALE,’
Mount Wilson Solar Observatory.

[ With 8 plates. ]

In 1891 Prof. Arthur Schuster, speaking before the Royal Insti-
tution, asked a question which has been widely debated in recent
years: “Is every large rotating body a magnet?” Since the days of
Gilbert, who first recognized that the earth is a great magnet, many
theories have been advanced to account for its magnetic properties.
Biot, in 1805, ascribed them to a relatively short magnet near its
center. Gauss, after an extended mathematical investigation, sub-
stituted a large number of small magnets, distributed in an irregu-
lar manner, for the single magnet of Biot. Grover suggested that
terrestrial magnetism may be caused by electric currents, circulating
around the earth and generated by the solar radiation. Soon after
Rowland’s demonstration in 1876, that a rotating electrically charged
body produces a magnetic field, Ayrton and Perry attempted to
apply this principle to the case of the earth. Rowland at once
pointed out a mistake in their calculation, and showed that the high
potential electric charge demanded by their theory could not possibly
exist on the earth’s surface. It remained for Schuster to suggest
that a body made up of molecules which are neutral in the ordinary
electrical or magnetic sense may nevertheless develop magnetic prop-
erties when rotated.

We shall soon have occasion to examine the two hypotheses ad-
vanced in support of this view. While both are promising, it can
not be said that either has been sufficiently developed to explain com-
pletely the principal phenomena of terrestrial magnetism. If we
turn to experiment, we find that iron globes spun at great velocity
in the laboratory fail to exhibit magnetic properties. But this can:
be accounted for on either hypothesis. What we need is a globe of
great size, which has been rotating for centuries at high velocity.
The sun, with a diameter 100 times that of the earth (fig. 1), may

1Address delivered at the semicentennial of the National Academy of Sciences, at
Washington, D. C., May, 1913.

2 The author had expected, before reprinting this address, to subject it to a thorough
revision and to insert the results of recent observations, but he has been prevented by
illIness from doing so. (Aug. 24, 1914.)

44863°—sMm 1913 10 145

146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

throw some light on the problem. Its high temperature wholly pre-
cludes the existence of permanent magnets, hence any magnetism it
may exhibit must be due to motion. Its great mass and rapid linear
velocity of rotation should produce a magnetic field much stronger
than that of the earth. Finally, the presence in its atmosphere of
glowing gases and the well-known effect of magnetism on light
should enable us to explore its magnetic field even at the distance of
the earth. The effects of ionization, probably small in the region of
nigh pressure beneath the photosphere and marked in the solar atmos-
phere, must be determined and allowed for. But with this important
limitation the sun may be used by the physicist for an experiment
which can not be performed in the best equipped laboratory.
Schuster, in the lecture already cited, remarked:

The form of the corona suggests a further hypothesis which, extravagant as
it may appear at present, may yet prove to be true. Is the sun a magnet?

Summing up the situation in April, 1912, he repeated:

The evidence (whether the sun is a magnet) rests entirely on the form of
certain rays of the corona, which—assuming that they indicate the path of pro-
jecting particles—seem to be deflected as they would be in a magnetic field, but
this evidence is not at all decisive.

There remained the possibility of an appeal to a conclusive test
of magnetism—the characteristic changes it produces in light which
originates in a magnetic field.

Before describing how this test has been applied, let us rapidly
_ recapitulate some of the principal facts of terrestrial magnetism.
You see upon the screen the image of a steel sphere (fig. 2), which
has been strongly magnetized. If iron filings are sprinkled over
the glass plate that supports it, each minute particle becomes a mag-
net under the influence of the sphere. When the plate is tapped, to
relieve the friction, the particles fall into place along the lines of
force, revealing a characteristic pattern of great beauty. A small
compass needle, moved about the sphere, always turns so as to point
along the lines of force. At the magnetic poles it points toward
the center of the sphere. Midway between them, at the equator, it
is parallel to the diameter joining the poles.

As the earth is a magnet it should exhibit lines of force resembling
those of the sphere. If the magnetic poles coincided with the poles
of rotation, a freely suspended magnetic needle should point ver-
tically downward at one pole, vertically upward at the other, and
horizontally at the equator. A dip needle, used to map the lines
of force of the earth, is shown on the screen. I have chosen for
illustration an instrument designed for use at sea, on the non-
magnetic yacht Carnegie, partly because the equipment used by

volume.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 1.

Fig. 1.—DIRECT PHOTOGRAPH OF THE SUN WITH DOT ONE MILLIMETER IN DIAMETER
(NEAR LOWER LEFT CORNER) REPRESENTING THE EARTH FOR COMPARISON.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 2.

Fla. 2.—LINES OF FORCE OF A MAGNETIZED STEEL SPHERE.

Fig. 3.—DIRECT PHOTOGRAPH OF PART OF THE SUN, APRIL 30, 1908.
EARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALE. 147

Dr. Bauer in his extensive surveys represents the best now in use,
and also because I wish to contrast the widely different means em-
ployed by the Carnegie Institution for the investigation of solar and
terrestrial magnetic phenomena. The support of the dip needle is
hung in gimbals, so that observations may be taken when the ship’s
deck is inclined. The smallest possible amount of metal enters into
the construction of this vessel, and where its use could not be avoided,
bronze was employed instead of iron or steel. She is thus admirably
adapted for magnetic work, as is shown by the observations secured
on voyages already totaling more than 100,000 miles. Her work
is supplemented by that of land parties, bearing instruments to re-
mote regions where magnetic observations have never before been
made.

The dip needle clearly shows that the earth is a magnet, for it
behaves in nearly the same way as the little needle used in our ex-
periment with the magnetized sphere. But the magnetic poles of
the earth do not coincide with the geographical poles. The north
magnetic pole, discovered by Ross and last visited by Amundsen
in 1903, lies near Baflfins Bay, in latitude 70° north, longitude
97° west. The position of the south magnetic pole, calculated from
observations made in its vicinity by Capt. Scott, of glorious memory,
in his expedition of 1901-1904, is 72° 50’ south latitude, 153° 45’
east longitude. Thus the two magnetic poles are not only displaced
about 30° from the geographical poles; they do not even lie on the
same diameter of the earth. Moreover, they are not fixed in posi-
tion, but appear to be rotating about the geographical poles in a
period of about 900 years. In addition to these peculiarities, it
must be added that the dip needle shows the existence of local mag-
netic poles, one of which has recently been found by Dr. Bauer’s
party at Treadwell Point, Alaska. At such a place the direction of
the needle undergoes rapid change as it is moved about the local
pole.

The dip needle, as we have seen, is free to move in a vertical
plane. The compass needle moves in a horizontal plane. In general,
it tends to point toward the magnetic pole, and as this does not
correspond with the geographical pole, there are not many places on
the earth’s surface where the needle indicates true north and south.

_ Local peculiarities, such as deposits of iron ore, also affect its direc-

_ tion very materially. Thus a variation chart, which indicates the

- deviation of the compass needle from geographical north, affords an

excellent illustration of the irregularities of terrestrial magnetism.

_ The necessity for frequent and accurate surveys of the earth’s mag-

: netic field is illustrated by the fact that the Carnegie has found errors
i of 5° or 6° in the variation charts of the Pacific and Indian Oceans.

In view of the earth’s heterogeneous structure, which is sufficiently
“strated by its topographical features, marked deviations from the

SANG s
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

uniform magnetic properties of a magnetized steel sphere are not at
all surprising. The phenomenon of the secular variation, or the
rotation of the magnetic poles about the geographical poles, is one
of the peculiarities toward the solution of which both theory and
experiment should be directed.

Passing over other remarkable phenomena of terrestrial mag-
netism, we come to magnetic storms and auroras, which are almost
certainly of solar origin.

Here is a photograph of part of the sun, as it appears in the tele-
scope (fig.3).1 Scattered over its surface are sun spots, which increase
and decrease in number in a period of about 11.3 years. It is well
known that a curve, showing the number of spots on the sun, is closely
similar to a curve representing the variations of intensity of the
earth’s magnetism. The time of maximum sun spots corresponds
with that of reduced intensity of the earth’s magnetism, and the
parallelism of the two curves is too close to be the result of accident.
We may therefore conclude that there is some connection between the
spotted area of the sun and the magnetic field of the earth.

We shall consider a little later the nature of sun spots, but for the
present we may regard them simply as solar storms. When spots are
numerous the entire sun is disturbed, and eruptive phenomena, far
transcending our most violent volcanic outbursts, are frequently
visible. In the atmosphere of the sun, gaseous prominences rise to
great heights. This one, reaching an elevation of 85,000 miles, is
of the quiescent type, which changes gradually in form and is abun-
dantly found at all phases of the sun’s activity. But such eruptions
as the one of March 25, 1895, photographed with the spectrohelio-
graph of the Kenwood Observatory, are clearly of an explosive na-
ture. As these photographs show, it shot upward through a distance
of 146,000 miles in 24 minutes, after which it faded away.

When great and rapidly changing spots, usually accompanied by
eruptive prominences, are observed on the sun, brilliant displays of
the aurora (fig. 6) and violent magnetic storms are often reported.
The magnetic needle, which would record a smooth straight line on
the photographic film if it were at rest, trembles and vibrates, draw-
ing a broken and irregular curve. Simultaneously, the aurora flashes
and pulsates, sometimes lighting up the northern sky with the most
brilliant display of red and green discharges.

Birkeland and Stérmer have worked out a theory which accounts
in a very satisfactory way for these phenomena. They suppose that
electrified particles, shot out from the sun with great velocity, are
drawn in toward the earth’s magnetic poles along the lines of force.
Striking the rarified gases of the upper atmosphere, they illuminate

1 Figs. 3, 4, and 5 represent the same region of the sun, photographed at successively
higher levels. , F
EARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALE. 149

them, just as the electric discharge lights up a vacuum tube. There
is reason to believe that the highest part of the earth’s atmosphere
consists of rarified hydrogen, while nitrogen predominates at a
lower level. Some of the electrons from the sun are absorbed in
the hydrogen, above a height of 60 miles. Others reach the lower-
lying nitrogen, and descend to levels from 30 to 40 miles above the
earth’s surface. Certain still more penetrating rays sometimes reach
an altitude of 25 miles, the lowest hitherto found for the aurora.
The passage through the atmosphere of the electrons which cause
the aurora also gives rise to the irregular disturbances of the mag-
netic needle observed during magnetic storms.

The outflow of electrons from the sun never ceases, if we may
reason from the fact that the night sky is at all times feebly illumi-
nated by the characteristic light of the aurora. But when sun spots
are numerous, the discharge of electrons is most violent, thus ex-
plaining the frequency of brilliant auroras and intense magnetic
storms during sun-spot maxima. It should be remarked that the
discharge of electrons does not necessarily occur from the spots
themselves, but rather from the eruptive regions surrounding them.

Our acquaintance with vacuum-tube discharges dates from an early
period, but accurate knowledge of these phenomena may be said to
begin with the work of Sir William Crookes in 1876. A glass tube,
fitted with electrodes, and filled with any gas, is exhausted with a
suitable pump until the pressure within it is very low. When a high-
voltage discharge is passed through the tube, a stream of negatively
charged particles is shot out from the cathode, or negative pole, with
great velocity. These electrons, bombarding the molecules of the
gas within the tube, produce a brillant illumination, the character of
which depends upon the nature of the gas. The rare hydrogen gas
in the upper atmosphere of the earth, when bombarded by electrons
from the sun, glows like the hydrogen in this tube. Nitrogen, which
is characteristic of a lower level, shines with the light which can be
duplicated here.

But it may be remarked that this explanation of the aurora is
only hypothetical, in the absence of direct evidence of the emission
of electrons by the sun. However, we do know that hot bodies emit
electrons. Here is a carbon filament in an exhausted bulb. When
heated white hot a stream of electrons passes off. Falling upon this
electrode the electrons discharge the electroscope with which it is
connected. Everyone who has to discard old incandescent lamps
is familiar with the result of this outflow. The blackening of the
bulbs is due to finely divided carbon carried away by the electrons
and deposited upon the glass.

_ Now, we know that great quantities of carbon in a vaporous state
exist in the sun and that many other substances also present there
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

emit electrons in the same way. Hence we may infer that electrons
are abundant in the solar atmosphere.

The temperature of the sun is between 6,000° and 7,000° C., twice
as high as we can obtain by artificial means. Under solar condi-
tions, the velocity of the electrons emitted in regions where the pres-
sure is not too great may be sufficient to carry them to the earth.
Arrhenius holds that the electrons attach themselves to molecules or
groups of molecules and are then driven to the earth by lght
pressure.

In certain regions of the sun we have strong evidence of the
existence of free electrons. This leads us to the question of solar
magnetism and suggests a comparison of the very different condi-
tions in the sun and earth. Much alike in chemical composition, these
bodies differ principally in size, in density, and in temperature. The
diameter of the sun is more than 100 times that of the earth, while
its density is only one-quarter as great. But the most striking point
of difference is the high temperature of the sun, which is much
more than sufficient to vaporize all known substances. This means
that no permanent magnetism, such as is exhibited by a steel magnet
or a lodestone, can exist in the sun. For if we bring this steel magnet
to a red heat it loses its magnetism and drops the iron bar which it
previously supported. Hence, while some theories attribute ter-
restrial magnetism -to the presence within the earth of permanent
magnets, no such theory can apply to the sun. If magnetic phe-
nomena are to be found there they must result from other causes.

The familiar case of the helix illustrates how a magnetic field is
produced by an electric current flowing through a coil of wire. But
according to the modern theory, an electric current is a stream of
electrons. Thus a stream of electrons in the sun should give rise to a
magnetic field. If the electrons were whirled in a powerful vortex,
resembling our tornadoes or waterspouts, the analogy with the wire
helix would be exact, and the magnetic field might be sufficiently
intense to be detected by spectroscopic observations.

A sun spot, as seen with a telescope or photographed in the ordi-
nary way, does not appear to be a vortex. If we examine the solar
atmosphere above and about the spots, we find extensive clouds of
luminous calcium vapor, invisible to the eye, but easily photographed
with the spectroheliograph by admitting no lght to the sensitive
plate except that radiated by calcium vapor. These calcium floceuli
(fig. 4), like the cumulus clouds of the earth’s atmosphere, exhibit no
well-defined linear structure. But if we photograph the sun with the
red light of hydrogen, we find a very different condition of affairs
(fig. 5). In this higher region of the solar atmosphere, first photo-
graphed on Mount Wilson in 1908, cyclonic whirls, centering in sun
spots, are clearly shown.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 3.

Fic. 4.—SAME REGION OF THE SUN SHOWING THE CALCIUM
(Hz) FLOCCULI.

Fig. 5.—SAME REGION OF THE SUN SHOWING THE HYDROGEN
(Ha) FLoccut.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 4,

Fic. 6.—THE AURORA.

Fic. 7.—WATER SPOUT.
BARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALR. 151

The idea that sun spots may be solar tornadoes, which was strongly
suggested by such photographs, soon received striking confirmation.
A great cloud of hydrogen, which had hung for several days on the
edge of one of these vortex structures, was suddenly swept into the
spot at a velocity of about 60 miles per second. More recently
Slocum has photographed at the Yerkes Observatory a prominence at
the edge of the sun, flowing into a spot with a somewhat lower
velocity.

Thus we were led to the hypothesis that sun spots are closely
analogous to tornadoes or waterspouts in the earth’s atmosphere
(fig. 7). If this were true, electrons caught and whirled in the spot
vortex should produce a magnetic field. Fortunately, this could be
put to a conclusive test through the well-known influence of mag-
netism on light discovered by Zeeman in 1896.

In Zeeman’s experiment a flame containing sodium vapor was
placed between the poles of a powerful electromagnet. The two
yellow sodium lines, observed with a spectroscope of high dispersion,
were seen to widen the instant a magnetic field was produced by pass-
ing a current through the coils of the magnet. It was subsequently
found that most of the lines of the spectrum, which are single
under ordinary conditions, are split into three components when the
radiating source is in a sufficiently intense magnetic field. This
is the case when the observation is made at right angles to the lines
of force. When looking along the lines of force, the central line
of such a triplet disappears (fig. 8), and the light of the two side com-
ponents is found to be circularly polarized in opposite directions.
With suitable polarizing apparatus, either component of such a line
can be cut off at will, leaving the other unchanged. Furthermore, a
double line having these characteristic properties can be produced
only by a magnetic field. Thus it becomes a simple matter to detect
a magnetic field at any distance by observing its effect on light
emitted within the field. If a sun spot is an electric vortex, and the
observer is supposed to look along the axis of the whirling vapor,
which would correspond with the direction of the lines of force, he
should find the spectrum lines double, and be able to cut off either
component with the palarizing attachment of his spectroscope.

I applied this test to sun spots on Mount Wilson in June, 1908,
with the 60-foot tower telescope, and at once found all of the char-
acteristic features of the Zeeman effect. Most of the lines of the
sun-spot spectrum are merely widened by the magnetic field, but
others are split into separate components (fig. 9), which can be
cut off at will by the observer. Moreover, the opportune formation
of two large spots, which appeared on the spectroheliograph plates
to be rotating in opposite directions (fig. 10), permitted a still more
exacting experiment to be tried. In the laboratory, where the polar-
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

izing apparatus is so adjusted as to transmit one component of a
tine doubled by a magnetic field, this disappears and is replaced by
the other component when the direction of the current is reversed.
In other words, one component is visible alone when the observer
looks toward the north pole of the magnet, while the other appears
alone when he looks toward the south pole. If electrons of the same
kind are rotating in opposite directions in two sun-spot vortexes, the
observer should be looking toward a north pole in one spot and to-
ward a south pole in the other. Hence the opposite components of
a magnetic double line should appear in two such spots. As our
photographs show, the result of the test was in harmony with my
anticipation.

I may not pause to describe the later developments of this investi-
gation, though two or three points must be mentioned. The intensity
of the magnetic field in sun spots is sometimes as high as 4,500
gausses, or 9,000 times the intensity of the earth’s field. In
passing upward from the sun’s surface the magnetic intensity de-
creases very rapidly—so rapidly, in fact as to suggest the existence
of an opposing field. It is probable that the vortex which produces
the observed field is not the one that appears on our photograph, but
lies at a lower level. In fact, the vortex structure shown on spectro-
heliograph plates may represent the effect rather than the cause of
the sun-spot field. We may have, as Brester and Deslandres suggest,
a condition analogous to that illustrated in the aurora: Electrons,
falling in the solar atmosphere, move along the lines of force of the
magnetic field into spots. In this way we may perhaps account for
the structure surrounding pairs of spots, of opposite polarity, which
constitute the typical sun-spot group. The resemblance of the struc-
ture near these two bipolar groups to the lines of force about a bar
magnet is very striking, especially when the disturbed condition-of
the solar atmosphere, which tends to mask the effect, is borne in
mind. It is not unlikely that the bipolar group is due to a single
vortex, of the horseshoe type, such as we may see in water after
every sweep of an oar.

We thus have abundant evidence of the existence on the sun of
local magnetic fields of great intensity—fields so extensive that the
earth is small in comparison with many of them. But how may we
account for the copious supply of electrons needed to generate the
powerful currents required in such enormous electromagnets? Neu-
tral molecules, postulated in theories of the earth’s field, will not
suffice. A marked preponderance of electrons of one sign is clearly
indicated.

An interesting experiment, due to Harker, will help us here.
Imagine a pair of carbon rods insulated within a furnace heated to
a temperature of two or three thousand degrees. The outer ends of
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 5.

|
.
|

Fia. 8.—ZEEMAN DOUBLET PHOTOGRAPHED IN LABORATORY SPECTRUM.

The middle section shows the doublet. The adjacent sections indicate the appearance
of the spectrum line in the absence of a magnetic field.

Fia. 9.—a, b, SPECTRA OF TWO SUN SPOTS.

The triple line indicates a magnetic field of 4,500
gausses in a and of 2,900 gausses in b.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 6.

aap r fo om

Fic. 10.—RIGHT AND LEFT HANDED VORTEXES SURROUNDING SUN
SPOTS, AS INDICATED BY THE DISTRIBUTION OF HYDROGEN GAS.

Photographed with the spectroheliograph.

Fic. 11.—SOLAR CORONA SHOWING POLAR STREAMERS.
BARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALRBE. 158

the rods projecting from the furnace are connected toa galvanometer.
Harker found that when one of the carbon terminals within the fur-
nace was cooler than the other a stream of negative electrons flowed
toward it from the hotter electrode. Even at atmospheric pressure
currents of several amperes were produced in this way.t

Our spectroscopic investigations, interpreted by laboratory experi-
ments, are in harmony with those of Fowler in proving that sun
spots are comparatively cool regions in the solar atmosphere. They
are hot enough, it is true, to volatilize such refractory elements as
titanium, but cool enough to permit the formation of certain com-
pounds not found elsewhere in the sun. Hence, from Harker’s ex-
periment, we may expect a flow of negative electrons toward spots.
These, caught and whirled in the vortex, would easily account for
the observed magnetic fields.

The conditions existing in sun spots are thus without any close
parallel among the natural phenomena of the earth. The sun-spot
vortex is not unlike a terrestial tornado, on a vast scale, but if the
whirl of ions in a tornado produces a magnetic field, it is too feeble
to be readily detected. Thus, while we have demonstrated the ex-
istence of solar magnetism, it is confined to limited areas. We must
look further if we would throw new light on the theory of the mag-
netic properties of rotating bodies.

This leads us to the question with which we atatteel: Ts the sun
a magnet, like the earth? The structure of the corona, as revealed at
total eclipses, points strongly in this direction. Remembering the
lines of force of our magnetized steel sphere, we can not fail to be
struck by their close resemblance to the polar streamers in these
beautiful photographs of the corona (fig. 11) taken by Lick Observa-
tory eclipse parties, for which I am indebted to Prof. Campbell.
Bigelow, in 1889, investigated this coronal structure and showed that
it is very similar to the lines of force of a spherical magnet. Stormer,
guided by his own researches on the aurora, has calculated the tra-
jectories of electrons moving out from the sun under the influence
of a general magnetic field and compared these trajectories with the
coronal streamers. The resemblance is apparently too close to be the
result of chance. Finally, Deslandres has investigated the forms and
motion of solar prominences, which he finds to behave as they would
in a magnetic field of intensity about one-millionth that of the earth.
We may thus infer the existence of a general solar magnetic field.
But since the sign of the charge of the outflowing electrons is not
certainly known, we can not determine the polarity of the sun in
this way. Furthermore, our present uncertainty as to the propor-
tion at different levels of positive and negative electrons and of the

1 King has recently found that the current decreases very rapidly as the pressure in-
creases, but is still appreciable at a pressure of 20 atmospheres.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

perturbations due to currents in the solar atmosphere must delay the
most effective application of these methods, though they promise
much future knowledge of the magnetic field at high levels in sa
solar atmosphere.

Of the field at low levels, however, they may tell us little or noth-
ing, for the distribution of the electrons may easily be such as to
give rise to a field caused by the rotation of the solar atmosphere,
which may oppose in sign the field due to the rotation of the body of
the sun. To detect this latter field, the magnetic field of the sun as
distinguished from that of the sun’s atmosphere, we must resort to
the method employed in the case of sun spots—the study of the
Zeeman effect. If this is successful it will not only show beyond
doubt whether the sun is a magnet; it will also permit the polarity
of the sun to be compared with that of the earth, gives a measure of
the strength of the field at different latitudes and indicate the sign
of the charge that a rotating sphere must possess if it is to produce a
similar field.

I first endeavored to apply this test with the 60-foot tower tele-
scope in 1908, but the results were too uncertain to command con-
fidence.

Thanks to additional appropriations from the Carnegie Institute
of Washington, a new and powerful instrument was available on
Mount Wilson for a continuation of the investigation in January,
1912. The new tower telescope has a focal length of 150 feet (fig.
12). To prevent vibration in the wind, the ccelostat, second mirror,
and object glass are carried by a skeleton tower, each vertical and
diagonal member of which is inclosed within the corresponding
member of an outer skeleton tower, which also carries a dome to
shield the instruments from the weather. In the photograph we
see only the hollow members of the outer tower. But within each
of them, well separated from possible contact, a sectional view would
show the similar but more slender members of the tower that sup-
port the instruments. The plan has proved to be successful, per-
mitting observations demanding the greatest steadiness of the solar
image to be made.

The arrangements are similar to those of the 60-foot tower. The
solar image, 164 inches in diameter, falls on the slit of a spectro-
graph (fig. 13) in the observation house at the ground level. The
spectrograph, of 75 feet focal length, enjoys the advantage of great
stability and constancy of temperature in its subterranean vault
beneath the tower. In the third order spectrum, used for this in-
vestigation, the D lines of the solar spectrum are 29 millimeters
apart. The resolving power of the excellent Michelson grating is
sufficient to show 75 lines of the iodine absorption spectrum in this
space between the D’s. Thus the instruments are well suited for

———.

me
a he
PLATE 7.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale.

Foot TOWER TELESCOPE

2.—150-

Fia. 1
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hale. PLATE 8.

Fic. 13.—HEAD OF THE 75-FOOT SPECTOGRAPH OF THE 150-FootT Tower >
TELESCOPE.

Equator.

He ele

a ee FEEEHH

Fig. 14.—THE Curve REPRESENTS THE THEORETICAL VARIATION OF THE DIS-
PLACEMENTS OF SPECTRUM LINES WITH THE HELIOGRAPHIC LATITUDE.
The sun is assumed to be a magnetic sphere with its magnetic poles coinciding with the

poles of rotation. The points represent mean yalues of the observed displacements.
Vertical scale: 1 square = 0,001 mm. = 0.0002 Angstrém.,
EARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALE. P55

the exacting requirements of a difficult investigation. For it must
be borne in mind that the problem is very different from that of
detecting the magnetic fields in sun spots, where the separation of
the lines is from 50 to 100 times as great as we may expect to
find here. Thus the sun’s general field can produce no actual separa-
tion of the lines. But it may cause a very slight widening, which
should appear as a displacement when suitable polarizing apparatus
is used. This is so arranged as to divide the spectrum longitudi-
nally into narrow strips. The component toward the red end of
the spectrum of a line widened by magnetism should appear in one
strip, the other component in the next strip. Hence, if the sun has
a magnetic field of sufficient strength, the line should have a dentated
appearance. The small relative displacements of the lines on suc-
cessive strips, when measured under a microscope, should give the
strength of the magnetic field.

The above remarks apply strictly to the case when the observer is
looking directly along the lines of force. At other angles neither
component is completely cut off, and the magnitude of the displace-
ment will then depend upon two things: The strength of the mag-
netic field and the angle between the line of sight and the lines of
force. Assuming that the lines of force of the sun correspond with
those of a magnetized sphere, and also that the magnetic poles coin-
cide with the poles of rotation, it is possible to calculate what the
relative displacement should be at different solar latitudes. These
theoretical displacements are shown graphically by the sine curve on
the screen (fig. 14).

We see from the curve that the greatest displacements should be
found at 45° north and south latitude, and that from these points
they should decrease toward zero at the equator and the poles. Fur-
thermore, the curve shows that we may apply the same crucial test
used in the case of sun spots; the direction of the displacements,
toward red or violet, should be reversed in the northern and southern
hemispheres.

TI shall not trouble you with the details of the hundreds of photo-
graphs and the thousands of measures which have been made by my
colleagues and myself during the past year. In view of the diffuse
character of the solar lines under such high dispersion and the ex-
ceedingly small displacements observed, the results must be given
with some reserve, though they appear to leave no doubt as to the
reality of the effect. Observations in the second order spectrum
failed to give satisfactory indications of the field. But with the
higher dispersion of the third order 11 independent determinations,
made with every possible precaution to eliminate bias, show opposite
displacements in the northern and southern hemispheres decreasing
in magnitude from about 45° north and south latitude to the equator.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Three of these determinations were pushed as close to the poles as
conditions would permit, and the observed displacements may be
compared with the theoretical curve (fig. 14). In view of the very
small magnitude of the displacements, which never surpass 0.002
Angstroms, the agreement is quite as satisfactory as one could expect
for a first approximation.

The full details of the investigation are given in a paper recently
published.t| The reader will find an account of the precautions taken
to eliminate error, and, I trust, no tendency to underestimate the
possible adverse bearing of certain negative results. It must remain
for the future to confirm or to overthrow.the apparently strong
evidence in favor of the existence of a true Zeeman effect, due to the
general magnetic field of the sun. If this evidence can be accepted,
we may draw certain conclusions of present interest.

Taking the measures at their face value, they indicate that the
north magnetic pole of the sun les at or near the north pole of rota-
tion, while the south magnetic pole les at or near the south pole of
rotation. In other words, if a compass needle could withstand the
solar temperature, it would point approximately as it does on the
earth, since the polarity of the two bodies appears to be the same.
Thus, since the earth and sun rotate in the same direction, a negative
charge distributed through their mass would account in each case
for the observed magnetic polarity.

As for the strength of the sun’s field, only three preliminary deter-
minations have yet been made, with as many different lines. Disre-
garding the systematic error of measurement, which is still very
uncertain, these indicate that the field strength at the sun’s poles is
of the order of 50 gausses (about 80 times that of the earth).

Schuster, assuming the magnetic fields of the earth and sun to be
due to their rotation, found that the strength of the sun’s field should
be 440 times that of the earth, or 264 gausses. This was on the sup-
position that the field strength of a rotating body is proportional to
the product of the radius and the maximum linear velocity of rota-
tion, but neglected the density. Before inquiring why the observed
and theoretical values differ, we may glance at the two most prom-
ising hypotheses that have been advanced in support of the view
that every large rotating body is a magnet.

On account of their greater mass, the positive electrons of the
neutral molecules within the earth may perhaps be more powerfully
attracted by gravitation than the negative electrons. In this case
the negative charge of each molecule should be a little farther from
the center of the earth than the positive charge. The average linear
velocity of the negative charge would thus be a little greater, and
the magnetizing effect due to its motion would slightly exceed that

1Contributions from the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory, No. 71.
EARTH AND SUN AS MAGNETS—HALE. £57

due to the motion of the positive charge. By assuming a separation
of the charges equal to about four-tenths the radius of a molecule
(Bauer), the symmetrical part of the earth’s magnetic field could
be accounted for as the result of the axial rotation.

This theory, first suggested by Thomson, has been developed by
Sutherland, Schuster, and Bauer. But as yet it has yielded no ex-
planation of the secular variation of the earth’s magnetism, and the
merits of other theories must not be overlooked.

Chief among these is the theory that rests on the very probable
assumption that every molecule is a magnet. If the magnetism is
accounted for as the effect of the rapid revolution of electrons within
the molecule, a gyrostatic action might be anticipated. That is, each
molecule would tend to set itself with its axis parallel to the axis of
the earth, just as the gyrostatic compass, now coming into use at sea,
tends to point to the geographical pole. The host of molecular mag-
nets, all acting together, might account for the earth’s magnetic field.

This theory, in its turn, is not free from obvious points of weak-
ness, though they may disappear as the result of more extended in-
vestigation. Its chief advantage lies in the possibility that it may
explain the secular variation of the earth’s magnetism by a preces-
sional motion of the magnetic molecules.

On either hypothesis, it is assumed, in the absence of knowledge
to the contrary, that every molecule contributes to the production of
the magnetic field. Thus the density of the rotating body may prove
to be a factor. Perhaps the change of density from the surface to the
center of the sun must also be taken into account. But the observa-
tional results already obtained suggest that the phenomena of ioniza-
tion in the solar atmosphere may turn out to be the predominant in-
fluence.

The lines which show the Zeeman effect originate at a compara-
tively low level in the solar atmosphere. Preliminary measures indi-
cate that certain lines of titanium, which are widely separated by a
magnetic field in the laboratory, are not appreciably affected in the
sun. As these lines represent a somewhat higher level, it is probable
that the strength of the sun’s field decreases very rapidly in passing
upward from the surface of the photosphere—a conclusion in har-
mony with results obtained from the study of the corona and prom-
inences. Thus it may be found that the distribution of the electrons
is such as to give rise to the observed field or to produce a field oppos-
ing that caused by the rotation of the body of the sun. It is evident
that speculation along these lines may advantageously await the ac-
cumulation of observations covering a wide range of level. Beneath
the photosphere, where the pressure is high, we may conclude from
recent electric furnace experiments by King that free electrons,
though relatively few, may nevertheless play some part in the pro-
duction of the general magnetic field.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

In this survey of magnetic phenomena we have kept constantly in
mind the hypothesis that the magnetism of the earth is due to its
rotation. Permanent magnets, formerly supposed to account for
the earth’s magnetic field, could not exist at the high temperature
of the sun. Displays of the aurora, usually accompanied by mag-
netic storms, are plausibly attributed to electrons reaching the earth
from the sun, and illuminating the rare gases of the upper atmos-
phere just as they affect those in a vacuum tube. Definite proof of
the existence of free electrons in the sun is afforded by the discovery
of powerful local magnetic fields in sun spots, where the magnetic
intensity is sometimes as great as nine thousand times that of the
earth’s field. These local fields probably result from the rapid revo-
lution in a vortex of negative electrons, flowing toward the cooler
spot from the hotter region outside. The same method of observa-
tion now indicates that the whole sun is a magnet, of the same
polarity as the earth. Because of the high solar temperature, this
magnetism may be ascribed to the sun’s axial rotation. It is not
improbable that the earth’s magnetism also results from its rotation,
and that other rotating celestial bodies, such as stars and nebule,
may ultimately be found to possess magnetic properties. Thus, while
the presence of free electrons in the sun prevents our acceptance of
the evidence as a proof that every large rotating body is a magnet,
the results of the investigation are not opposed to this hypothesis,
which may be tested further by the study of other stars of known
diameter and velocity of rotation.

numberless local magnetic fields, caused by electric vortices in the solar “ pores,’’ though
at first sight improbable, deserves further consideration.
THE REACTION OF THE PLANETS UPON THE SUN.'

By P. Pursrux,’
Member of the Institute, Astronomer at the Paris Observatory.

The popular preconception that the earth, with the sun rotating
about it, was the center of the universe, was overcome only through
the persistent efforts of astronomers and physicists. We will not
here review these memorable discussions, but will note merely the
result. Everyone capable of connected and geometrical reasoning
will become convinced that the position of the earth, face to face
with the sun, is that of a humble satellite, and that our globe, forced
to escort our daytime star in its mysterious course through space,
receives from this star its law of annual movement and at the same
time its indispensable ration of heat and light.

Going from one extreme to another, the sun was believed to be _
independent of the relatively minute planets which it carries along
with itself. It seemed that a fictitious observer, placed at its center
or on its surface, would have no occasion to suspect the existence of
other celestial bodies. Further protected against any perceptible
action from the stars by their immense distance, the sun must lavish
its splendor, with no pay in return, and follow unperturbed its
undeviated path through space.

THE INFLUENCE OF THE PLANETS ON THE MOTION OF THE SUN.

This conclusion was in some respects too radical. An account of
this matter could be rendered only when the penetrating genius of
Newton showed that the curved trajectory of a projectile, the revo-
lution of the moon about the earth, and the revolution of the earth
around the sun were three manifestations of the same law. This
law holds everywhere. Further, it is not a special privilege of the
center of any system. The bond exists, real though slight, between
any two particles whatever. The sun, as well as the humblest
_ planet, because of this bond, must undergo periodic variations in its
speed as well as in its shape.

1 Lecture delivered at the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers, Feb. 23, 1913.
2 Translated by permission from Revue Scientifique, Paris, May 3, 1913.

159

160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

Have we to-day at our disposal sufficiently delicate means of obser-
vations to detect these changes? In Newton’s time such means were
probably lacking. The caprices of our atmosphere furnished a ready
explanation of the apparent fluctuations in solar radiation. The
spots had been observed on the sun’s disk, sometimes few, sometimes
many, but no law had been assigned to them. Further, the tradi-
tional fixity of the constellations led to the belief that the sun main-
tained a complete immobility with reference to the stars.

But the problem plainly stated aroused new attempts at its un-
raveling. Bradley, a fellow countryman and a disciple of Newton,
showed that much greater precision could be obtained in the measures
of the angular distances of the stars than had before been gained.
Less than a century later, W. Herschel could affirm that the con-
stellations do alter their form, and the best determination of these
changes may be explained by attributing to the solar system a regular
rectilinear motion. The ambition of astronomers, increasing with
success, tries to-day to show that this movement is not rigorously
uniform, and even though shielded from the action of the stars, pays
tribute to the universal attraction in periodic oscillations.

It is pretty safe to predict what will be the most marked of these
oscillations. It is not the center of the sun itself which possesses
the uniform rectilinear motion, but the center of gravity of the
system formed by the sun and all the planets. The oscillation would
be small if only the earth need be considered. There is, however, a
giant planet, Jupiter, whose mass exceeds that of all of the other
planets taken together and is nearly one one-thousandth that of the
sun. Describing its orbit at the rate of 12 kilometers per second,
Jupiter forces the sun to rotate about an imaginary center with a
velocity a thousand times less. This is apparently a very small
amount, but not at all negligible with respect to the velocity of
translation of the solar system, which is 20 kilometers per second.
Consequently the speed of the solar system toward a point in the
constellation Hercules is sometimes accelerated, sometimes slowed,
by one part in one thousand in an interval of six years.

Very few of the stars are near enough to us for the parallactic dis-
placement relative to the more distant stars and due to this motion
of the sun to be appreciable in six years. Consequently, to measure
one one-thousandth part of this displacement is beyond the resources
of precise astronomy. We may be pretty sure, though, that some
day we will thus obtain, at the same time with a measure of the
mass of Jupiter, a new confirmation of the principle of the universal
attraction of gravitation.

Meanwhile help comes in another way. What the micrometer for
a long time will probably be unable to give, the spectroscope is al-
ready furnishing. Although the variation of 30 meters per second,
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 161

which we wish to detect in the motion of the sun, requires years to
change sensibly the apparent position of a star, it takes only a moment
to alter the quality of its light. Whatever the distance, the light
waves will come to us sometimes more frequently, sometimes less; their
path through a prism will consequently be found altered and the
fine metallic lines of the spectrum recorded by a photograph will be
displaced relatively to those of a stationary source, such as an elec-
tric spark used for comparison.

The earliest happy applications of this principle were due to Hug-
gins and to Vogel. It was used to separate numerous double stars
composed of pairs of suns so close to each other and so distant from
us that each pair appeared as a single star. But the brightness of
each was sufficient to record a spectrum and the relative velocities
were sufficiently variable so that two spectrum lines of the same
chemical origin separated periodically. Subsequently another class,
yet greater in number, was found in which the spectrum lines were
not doubled, but showed a periodic oscillation. In this case we may
suppose that one of the two stars, while not bright enough to reg-
ister its spectrum, is yet heavy enough to sway its associate. The
period is usually several weeks or days. The displacements of the
lines correspond to velocities of the same order as those of the
planets, from 10 to 100 kilometers per second. Because of the ex-
treme accuracy and care in the use of spectroscopes, certain as-
tronomers can now measure velocities to a fraction of a kilometer.

The time will come when pairs like the sun and Jupiter can be
detected, however distant they may be, provided only that the prin-
cipal star is bright enough to record its spectrum. Campbell, who
is the leader in this class of research, estimates that on the average
one star in three will be found spectroscopically double. It is very
probable that even more stars art double since we can see no reason
why a planet like Jupiter should be exceptional. We may predict
that all stellar spectra will be found thus variable even after cor-
recting for the orbital movement of the earth. We may then gather
photographic evidence of the existence of planets about the stars as
well as the periodic oscillation of our sun due to Jupiter. The earth
of course will produce a similar effect only less in amplitude and
period. But who would dare to put a limit to the skill of our opti-
cians or the patience of our astronomers in a path so definitely
marked out?

THE PLANETS AS THE CAUSE OF THE SOLAR CYCLE.

To find that we disturb the sun is of course something to elate us.
We will feel perhaps a more tangible satisfaction if we can find
that we cause changes in the aspect of its surface, disturbances visi-
ble by direct and not indirect evidence in the field of the microscope.

44863°—sm 1913——11

. 162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

We will now consider a deforming action dependent also on
Newton’s law but of a differential nature and consequently propor-
tional to the inverse cube instead of the inverse square of the distance.
This difference helps to compensate for the inferiority of the mass
of the earth with reference to the greater planets and gives it a chance
for an honorable rank in this contest.

We have under our eyes an encouraging phenomenon. The attrac-
tion at the surface of the earth due to the sun is but a small fraction
compared to the weight of a body here, and the yet feebler attraction
due to the moon can not lighten a body by one one-hundred thou-
sandth part of its weight. Yet we see the moon exerting this power
and indeed with three times more strength than is felt from the sun, in
deforming our globe. This action can be detected upon the atmos-
phere, the oceans, and even the solid crust of the earth. The seas,
however, are what render it most evident to our eyes. Under favor-
able conditions, for instance, in the Bay of Mount St. Michel, on the
French coast, we see the sea following faithfully the passage of the
moon across the meridan. The sea’s level changes at the flood some
20 meters in a few hours, displacing the shoreline several kilometers.
The work thus developed, if we could only put it to use economically,
would be enough to render useless all our oil wells and all the engines
in the world.

We may find that no planet is as favorably situated to trouble the
sun as the moon is the earth. But perhaps we should not be so ex-
acting. We see upon the sun no such liquid seas which might be
made to extend or contract their domains. The weight there to be
conquered is great, 27 times greater than here. Despite that, we
see chances that the sun may react as actively, or even more actively,
than the earth, under the action of a distant body. ‘We are indeed
led by several converging paths of reasoning to think that the sur-
face layers of the sun are to a great depth formed of extremely tenu-
ous mobile matter, little subject to the action of weight and all
ready, consequently, to obey the least force.

A first piece of evidence along this line is the development of spots,
rents which seem to appear in the luminous veil of the solar surface,
reaching in a few days an extent of ten, twenty, or thirty thousand
kilometers and disappearing with equal rapidity. In the spectrum
of these spots there is an increase in the number and intensity of the
absorption bands, leading us to think that various metallic molecules
of considerable atomic weight are spouted out in torrents, carried
along by currents of the lighter hydrogen.

More impressive yet is the appearance of protuberances—clouds
which develop and remain at heights where they could not be sus-
tained by the dense and refringent atmosphere. Much less bright
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 163

than the disk, they have a special spectrum and during total eclipses
are the principal source of light. We can now photograph them at
any time about the edge of the disk by an ingenious method devised
in 1868 by Janssen and by Lockyer and since singularly perfected.
On many occasions we have been assured by incontestable evidence
that protuberances can mount in a few hours in the form of vertical
jets, narrow at the base to prodigious heights—50,000 to 100,000
kilometers or even more. Generally, however, before attaining such
heights the protuberances expand into sheaves or stratified layers.
At times they seem to be the seat of violent explosions, are scattered,
and disappear very quickly. The spectroscope shows us that cal-
cium vapor, despite its atomic weight 40 times heavier than that of
hydrogen, rises very high in the protuberances. The displacements
of the spectrum lines also furnish confirmation of the enormous
velocities (100 kilometers or more per second) which the deforma-
tions of the contours suggest.

Total eclipses, during which protuberances first attracted atten-
tion, are even now the only occasions when we can see another inter-
esting phase of solar activity—the solar corona. Sometimes it
appears as a halo somewhat equally distributed around the disk, at
other times as gigantic streamers stretching out distances several
times the diameter of the sun. The forms of these rays indicate that
the matter of which they are composed shows no haste in falling
back into the sun. This matter is evidently very sparse and has very
Little absorptive action on light, for, despite its irregular distribution,
it causes no difference in the appearance of the various parts of the
disk. Its mobility must be very great since in the interval of two
or three years between eclipses its structure completely changes, as
our photographs assure us.

Spots, protuberances, and corona are subject to a great variation
which takes place regularly about nine times in a century. After a
period when the sun’s disk appears entirely immaculate, spots re-
appear in both hemispheres at latitudes from 20° to 30°, then, always
increasing, they invade the equatorial regions, becoming at the max-
imum 20 times more numerous on the average than in a minimum
year. Then, as the decline commences, the numerical predominance,
which the Northern Hemisphere at first seemed to show, passes to the
Southern Hemisphere. The spots first disappear in the high lati-
tudes and then diminish all over the sun.

The protuberances pass through a similar cycle, except that dur-
ing the period while their number increases their mean latitude tends
_to increase in each hemisphere. Toward the epoch of spot maximum,
and only then, it is not rare to see great protuberances even near the
poles, where spots never appear.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The corona during the same period always undergoes a definite
evolution. Toward the epoch of sun-spot minimum the polar rays
are fine and vertical like the bristles of a brush. The jets in the mid-
dle and mean latitudes are much longer and bent toward the Equator.
At the maximum period there is little difference with the latitude.
During the transition years the poles and the Equator are almost
clear and the rays are developed only in the middle latitudes, giving
the whole a rectangular appearance.

The more we reflect upon these facts the less are we led to regard
the sun as a monarch, inaccessible, and shut up in a tower of ivory.
It, like the earth, must have seasons connected with the revolution of
the planets and tides connected with its own rotation. To sift out at
least the more active of these external influences is a legitimate task,

even though it is not an easy one.

' First, do we find one or several bodies which could be held responsi-
ble for a cycle of 11 years? The stars seem to be beyond considera-
tion, since in that period there is no appreciable change in their
linear or angular distances.

We could, as did John Herschel, blame one or several swarms of
meteors, imagined for the purpose. Describing very eccentric orbits,
they might graze the surface of the sun, causing the spots. Suitably
choosing their revolution periods, inclinations, eccentricities, and the
distribution of the matter in their orbits, we could explain the
phenomenon in all its details. We must confess that the permanence
of swarms of meteors put every 11 years to such a violent test does not
seem probable. There is no doubt that meteors fall into the sun in
great numbers. But we have no direct proof that this happens
periodically and so as to produce visible effects. Such proof we feel
that we must demand for this very supple and convenient hypothesis.
As these swarms have not been detected, we must leave them and
direct our investigations to the planets.

The most important of these planets brings a coincidence at first
sight very seductive. Nearly every 11 years Jupiter, in a determinate
sense, crosses the plane of the solar equator; also in every 11 years
the numerical predominance of the spots passes from the northern
to the southern hemisphere of the sun. The same interval separates
the return of Jupiter to its least distance from the sun and the return
of the sun-spot numbers to their extreme value.

We must not hurry, though, to sing our victory. It is not an
approximate concordance but a precise one which we should demand.
The periods in years are 11.86 for the revolution of Jupiter and
11.13 for the sun-spot cycle. For the second period, which is less
well defined, the incertitude is in the hundredths. For more than a
century we have careful records of spot numbers which reappear
regularly. Now, in the course of a century the difference of eight
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 165

months between the periods brings them from complete coincidence
to an absolute discordance. What now remains of our hoped-for
proof if the nearest approach of the planet must sometimes condition
an increase of spots, sometimes their disappearance?

We may suppose that Jupiter’s action, though preponderant, is
modified by a somewhat slower disturbing force which increases the
interval between successive maxima. But the statistics of the num-
ber and extent of the spots, analyzed with the view of finding such
a force, assigns to it such a long period that we have no clue as to
its origin. A priori the most probable disturbing body would seem
to be Saturn. It must act in the same sense as Jupiter, although to
less extent. The spot maxima or minima should be particularly pro-
nounced when the two planets are in conjunction with the sun—that
is, every 20 years. Here again the evidence is negative.

We get an even less favorable answer from the rest of the planets.
Hither their, revolution periods are too short to render an account
of an 11-year fluctuation or their distances too great for their action
to be sensible compared with that of Jupiter.

THE PLANETS AS A DISTURBING ELEMENT IN THE SOLAR CYCLE.

No planet, then, or combination of planets seems to be the princi-
pal cause of the solar cycle. We may, however, suppose that this
or that planet may for a brief time trouble the cycle by rendering
the distribution of spots irregular in longitude.

The sun rotates with reference to the fixed stars once in 25 days.
The planets revolve about it in the same direction, but more slowly.
Therefore, to an observer on the sun, the successive passages of a
planet over his meridian occur in periods somewhat longer than 25
days, tending to approach this (sideral revolution) as the planet’s
distance increases. This is called the synodical rotation. That cor-
responding to the transit of the earth is 27.35 days.

Considering now the extreme mobility of the solar surface, we will
see whether each planet does not produce a tidal wave which passes
over the sun’s surface with the corresponding synodical rotation
period and capable of producing visible disturbances.

According to the elementary law of Newton, the relative impor-
tance of the tidal waves for the various planets is given by what we
may call the deforming factor, the product of the mass by the inverse
cube of the distance. If we make the value of this factor unity for
the earth, the mean values for the planets are as follows:

oe STENT ly UE LN Ere ae 1.04 | J upiter Bs Ws ot a 2. 20
RSet ee ree Seo Satyr ws) lee een . 106
Fs Ui olla STL i ge A aa TEOO | MUTATE A a 7S ts . 019

ES ONC aoe ee Eee HOS) PaNemtune tec se) at be et, . 001
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

We see that the most active cause for a tidal wave lies in Jupiter,
followed closely by Venus. Mercury and the earth come next, the
remaining planets being much less active.

Although the earth comes only in the fourth rank, we will con-
sider it first because we are better situated for examining its effects.
At each instant we can consider the sun as divided into two equal
hemispheres, one visible, the other not. The limiting meridians turn
uniformly over the surface of the sun in 27.35 days, the synodical
period.

Let us first suppose that the earth has no physical influence on the
development of the spots. The ratio between the total sun-spot
areas in the two hemispheres may happen to have any value what-
ever; but the mean value taken over a long period of time embrac-
ing many synodical rotations, say for a whole solar-spot cycle, should
differ very little from unity.

We can not at any given moment count or measure the spots on
the invisible hemisphere. But we can count the spots which appear
on the eastern border and compare these with those which disap-
pear in the corresponding time limit at the western border. The ratio
of the two numbers would have a tendency to surpass unity if it is
at a time of decrease in spots and to be less than unity if in the in-
creasing phase. But taken over a whole cycle, the mean value should
differ very little from unity.

Now, let us suppose that the earth does have a physical influence,
for instance, to fix our attention, that the presence of the earth above
the horizon of some point on the sun favors the development of a
spot at that point. As this development is certainly not instanta-
neous, any more than is its disappearance, more spots will be born in
the visible hemisphere than in the opposite one. Consequently, more
spots will disappear over the western border than appear at the
eastern. The inverse inequality will be observed, provided we observe
over a sufficiently long period, if the presence of the earth causes the
disappearance of spots.

Instead of comparing the eastern with the western border we could
compare the two halves of the visible disk, the right with the left,
and the result would be equally decisive. Practically, if the action
of the earth on the solar surface is real, the action will necessarily
take a certain time to become manifest. Considerable masses must
be moved, masses doubtless subject to interior friction. It is so rela-
tive to terrestrial tides which at any point of the earth suffer a
variable retardation, but always very marked with reference to the
passage of the moon over the meridian. If the earth has no influence,
the two halves—the right and left—would, if considered over a sufii-
cient time, show the same number and same area of spots. If the
earth has a real influence there will be found a persistent and sys-
tematic mequality.
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 167
RESEARCHES OF MRS. MAUNDER, 1907.

Mrs. Maunder undertook to answer this question, utilizing the
photographs due to a cooperation of English observatories for the
interval 1889 to 1901, extending from one spot minimum to the next.
At the beginning and the end the sun seemed absolutely free from
spots. In every instance the rare survivors which could be found at
the beginning and the end of the period upon the visible hemisphere
could not vitiate the conclusions derived from all the observations.

The tables obtained at Greenwich comprised—

(1) The positions and areas of the groups for each day.

(2) The history, day by day, of each important group; the areas
are expressed in millionths of the visible hemisphere and are cor-
rected for the effect of perspective; the mean duration of a group is
about six days; 2,870 groups were studied.

Mrs. Maunder divided the visible hemisphere at each instant into
14 vertical zones, each 13.2° wide and numbered in the inverse order
of their appearance. For each zone and the entire period the sum
representing the area of the spots was made. These results were com-
pared for zones symmetrical to the central meridian. There was thus
made manifest a systematic variation from two points of view:

(1) Despite the perspective correction, there was a constant pro-
gression on each side in passing from the limb to the central zone, as
if the perspective correction had been insufficient.

(2) For each pair of zones there was a constant decrease in passing
from the eastern to the corresponding western zone. The same thing
was noted when in a similar manner the northern and southern hem-
ispheres were treated separately.

Various reasons make the measures on the extreme zones less trust-
worthy, but even if we omit them the same conclusions result. If
refraction in the solar atmosphere plays a part it would unduly en-
rich the extreme zones. Accordingly, if a correction is made for it,
it but increases the first anomaly. Neither anomaly can be due to
errors of observation or reduction.

If we do not like this process of treatment we need not depend
upon the areas of the spots but count simply the number of groups
visible in each zone, omitting those of long life which necessarily
appear in both halves. Here again, for all pairs of zones, the eastern
one shows a greater number than its corresponding western one.

We next ask whether there is, either in the visible or in the invis-
ible half, an habitual and systematic excess in the number of spot
births over deaths. A priori, it seems as if it must be so for one or
the other hemisphere during the phase of increasing spots, but that
an equilibrium must be established when a complete cycle is con-
sidered.

a)
ae

168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

To throw light on this point Mrs. Maunder associated on each
half of the disk the two extreme zones and compared the number of
groups of spots which had been seen in each of the two double zones.
The predominance was clearly in the eastern pair. There are
throughout a cycle more spots seen near the eastern border, and
consequently for the whole visible hemisphere and whole cycle there
is an excess of disappearances over appearances of spots. The oppo-
site must hold on the invisible hemisphere, since at the beginning
and end of a cycle the sun is entirely free from spots.

Neglecting the extreme zones, where the disappearances may be
more subject to error, there was obtained for each zone the number
of spots which were seen in it for the first time and the number seen
in it for the last time. The following result was noted:

As we go from east to west, crossing the visible hemisphere, there
is an almost constant diminution in the number of spot appearances
over a whole spot cycle and as nearly constant and even greater aug-
mentation in the number of disappearances.

When we compare two symmetrical regions of the disk, the number
of births found in one is generally smaller than the number of dis-
appearances in the corresponding region on the other side of the cen-
tral meridian.

If we were dealing only with numbers, the departures noted might
be considered as resulting from a psychological cause. It is probable
that there is in an observer a certain, perhaps unconscious, laziness
which keeps him from recording new appearances and prolonging
old spots unless absolutely necessary. It is always more agreeable
to register a disappearance which simplifies work rather an appear-
ance which augments it.

Thus, when a new small spot appears for the first time, there is
a tendency to include it among those already noted rather than to
regard it as an advance guard or germ of a new group. If the first
impression is wrong, then there results an unjustified diminution of
births in the visible hemisphere.

In a similar manner, if a small group approaches a more important
group, either by expansion or derivation, there will be a tendency
not to consider it separately and to cease counting it as soon as the
separation between it and the larger group ceases to be distinct. We
are thus led to credit fictitious disappearances to the visible hemi-
sphere.

Both these considerations lead us to record more disappearances
than births. But these errors in counting do not explain why the
total area of spots is regularly found greater in the eastern half of
the visible disk. Considering all of Mrs. Maunder’s results we are
led to think that the presence of the earth above the horizon of a
place on the sun tends to make spots there disappear.
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 169
CHECK METHODS.

This result is in a way too beautiful. We had hoped to find only
a small influence and we find one so decided that there is little room
left for the other planets. Accordingly, search has been justly made
for other proofs. We may, for instance, compare—

(1) Only the areas, in the east and west halves, of the groups of
long life which have been completely followed across the disk. Here,
again, without exception, for all symmetrical pairs of zones, the ad-
vantage remains with the eastern half of the disk.

(2) We may retain only the groups of long life seen in more than
two successive rotations, neglecting the first and last appearances,
keeping only the intermediate appearances. It is evident that in
this way no appearance can be omitted or fictitious disappearance be
registered. Despite these safeguards, the eastern portion still re-
tains its advantage in the proportion of 19 parts in 100.

(3) We may substitute for the spot statistics those obtained from
the protuberances observed on the east and west limbs and see if
the protuberances show the same inequalities in activity as do the
spots at the limb zones.

The protuberances, we have seen, follow more or less closely the
solar cycle in their development. But the method of observation for
the protuberances is quite different than for the spots. Mrs. Maunder
found no sufficiently complete and homogeneous series of observations
of the protuberances for the interval 1889 to 1901, which her spot
statistics covered. The studies of Ricco at Catania, however, cover
well the interval between the last two spot maxima. Diagrams made
from this data show that from 1892 to 1900, during the decrease in
spot numbers, the eastern limb had on the average more protuber-
ances than the western limb. The opposite condition held from 1900
to 1904, but after the spot maximum was reached in 1905 the eastern
limb again regained its ascendancy. On the average, the eastern
limb maintained a superiority of 1 to 20, less constant and less marked
than in the case of the spots, but in the same sense.

Deslandres has recently pointed out a circumstance which may ren-
der the protuberances more easily visible on the east than on the
west border. The sun, which we have reason to believe is electrified
at its surface, must by its rotation create a magnetic field. The very
mobile protuberances would be disturbed by this field so as to be
bent at their upper part in the direction of the rotation. An observer
would then not be in an impartial position relative to the two limbs
of the sun. He will see better the oncoming protuberances which

would be bent toward him than the disappearing ones which would
be bent away. This hypothesis seems to be confirmed by the deforma-
tions and velocities of the protuberances.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

A similar explanation is not so easy in the case of the spots. In

order that they may be more easily visible on the eastern than on
the western limb, we may suppose that they are followed, but not
preceded, in their general rotation by some kind of a cloud. Each
spot would then have its cloud, allowing the spot to be seen as it
approached but hid more and more as it departed.

This explanation is not very convincing. In order that the cloud
have an appreciable effect upon a great spot it would have to be
at quite an elevation, and it is difficult to see how it would escape
observation at the border of the sun. Its influence would not be
felt except toward the ends of the spot’s transit, and we have seen
that the inequalities are noted in the same sense in all pairs of sym-
metrical zones.

(4) There remains one more test which we must not neglect. We
could not pretend that the earth alone has such an influence upon the
sun. If it is effective, then the other planets must be; and there are
apparently three, Jupiter, Mercury, and Venus, which should be
even more effective. How can we assure ourselves in this matter ?

RESEARCHES OF THE KEW OBSERVERS.

The problem had already been attacked long ago by De la Rue,
Balfour Stewart, Benjamin Loewy, astronomers at the Kew Observa-
tory. (Proc. Roy. Soc., p. 210, 1872.) As the observations never
related to but a half of the sun at a time, it was considered neces-
sary at the start to determine and try to eliminate the influence
which the position of the observer on the earth might have.
The two following conclusions resulted from the preliminary
examination:

(az) Upon the hemisphere visible from the earth the mean area
occupied by the spots increases as the distance on either side of the
central meridian increases.

(6) The spotted surface on the average is greater on the western
than on the eastern half of the visible disk.

The second conclusion of the Kew observers is at variance with
that of the more recent investigators. However, the years examined
in the two cases have no part in common. The data used by Mrs.
Maunder was so much more homogeneous and abundant that her
conclusions should have greater weight.

Having completed their first examination, the Kew observers con-
sidered how to correct their data for the position of the observer.
They could then, for any planet whatever, P, compare the hemisphere
turned toward the planet P with that turned away. Relative to the
circle limiting these two hemispheres, any other planet, P’, could
have any possible position in its orbit. It seemed right to admit
that, if the interval considered be long enough, the effect of P’ would

ge

——— es
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX, 17 La
my

be eliminated and the effect of P would become evident by comparing
the conditions on the two hemispheres.

It was found thus that the spotted areas tend to increase opposite
to Mercury and Venus. Jupiter, upon which the greatest hope was
placed, gave no definite result.

The work of the Kew observers has been rather severely criticized.
The interval used seems too short for assuring the proper compensa-
tions, and the gaps in the data are considerable. The choice of the
material selected has not always seemed justified. ;

RESEARCHES OF SCHUSTER.

In a recent memoir (Proc. Roy. Soc. 85A, p. 309, 1911) A. Schuster
considered it advisable again to take up this problem, using the
Greenwich photographs for the years 1874 to 1909. He considered
only the births of spots lasting over the interval between the plates
of two successive days. He excluded, as more subject to error, those
births which, seen from the earth, appeared at less than 30° of lon-
gitude from the eastern border. There remained 4,271 spots to
consider.

For each planet P, the sun was divided into 12 equivalent vertical
zones. The solar meridian passing through the planet P formed the
boundary between the zones 6 and 7 on the hemisphere toward the
planet and between 12 and 1 on the farther side. The number of
spots seen for the first time in each zone was counted and used to
form a plot having as abscissee the zone numbers.

The results are rather irregular especially if—as Schuster did at
first—we consider separately the spots counted when the earth is
east or west of the central meridian. Of the three planets—Mercury,
Jupiter, or Venus—each one seems to produce a minimum of spots
where another may produce a maximum. If the above distinction
is not made, the results seem more concordant. For all there is a
minimum upon zone 38, that is when the planet is just rising,
and a maximum on zone 8, which has already passed the meridian.
This can be compared with the diurnal march of temperature on
the earth due to the influence of the sun’s heat. But there are other
intermediate maxima and minima for which the three planets are
in no ways in accord.

Schuster, however, considers that the similarity of march of the
three curves for divisions 3 and 8 is sufficiently characteristic for
rendering very probable the reality of a planetary influence.

This march is very different from that which had been found for
the earth and much less definite. The effective activity of the earth
is therefore apparently of another nature and relatively stronger,
or it is only apparent and due to the situation of the observer.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The question was next taken up whether the distribution of spots
in longitude did not become more unequal when the three planets
considered, or two of them, were in conjunction for the same solar
zone. The plots were remade considering only the spots born when
that condition was fulfilled. No marked difference was evident. It
seems as if the number of spots appearing in a zone is greater only
when one of the planets in the conjunction, or slightly past it, is
Venus. Schuster thinks that a planet may have merely an exciting
action, effective only in putting into play a force already existing
in the sun. Accordingly, a second planet on conjunction might not
have any additional effect.

RESEARCHES OF F. J. M. STRATTON.

Stratton (Monthly Notices, 72, p. 9,1911) thought that it would be
worth while to again take up this research, considering the disap-
pearances as well as the appearances, and retaining only those which
occur at less than 50 degrees from the solar meridian passing through
the earth. He considers only Jupiter and Venus, which seemed the
most probable as having an influence on the spottedness. The
period used was the one of 36 years, 1874 to 1909, for which the
photographs of the Greenwich Observatory furnished a complete
series.

The surface of the sun was divided into 24 equal zones instead of
the 12 which Schuster used. The origin was the meridian passing
through the planet at the moment of birth or disappearance of a
spot. The zones 0 to 6 corresponded to meridians which had
already passed over the planet but which are now hid from it. The
zones 18 to 24 corresponded to meridians which are to transit but
which are still out of sight.

He then constructed for each planet plots in which the abscissee
were the zone numbers and the ordinates—

(a) The number of spots seen for the first time in each zone.

(6) The number of spots seen for the first time in the northern
part of each zone.

(c) The number of spots seen for the first time in the southern
part of each zone. |

(dq) The number of ephemeral (that is, seen for one day only)
spots seen in each zone.

(e) Total number of spots seen either for the first time or for one
day only in each zone.

This gave five curves for each planet. These were remade, using
the spots seen for the last time instead of those seen for the first time;
that is, disappearances instead of appearances.
REACTION OF PLANETS UPON SUN—PUISEUX. 1730

- The plots were very irregular. Generally there was no similarity
in their contour, even for the same planet, between the two hemi-
spheres; neither was there between the same homispheres for differ-
ent planets. There is one single coincidence, perhaps, which seems
not due to chance. There is a maximum of ephemeral spots noted
in the zones the meridians of which either Jupiter or Venus had
already passed three hours previously.

It is notable that for this interval of 36 years a terrestrial ob-
server always notes in the central region of the sun more disap-
pearances than appearances. The difference reaches 10 parts per
100. This agrees with what Mrs. Maunder found for the interval
1889 to 1901. For Jupiter and Venus the births seem more frequent
when the planet is above than when under the horizon; that is, in
the opposite sense from what Mrs. Maunder found for the earth.
But the difference is very small and merits no physical explanation.

The relation between the east and west hemispheres of the sun, as
seen from a planet, is for Venus in the opposite sense than is the
ease for the earth. In the case of Jupiter there is scarcely any dif-
ference, as the following table shows:

Spots seen on the hemisphere of the sun toward a planet.

East half. | West half,

ODSHIEETR oo j2 18 oS en ee ET SPE 8, 792 8.711
LE AND < oro e done! bbpehUSOSeeee e ae eee ee a SE ei poe epee veo pen 8,213 7,508

Ses Entre eh in a 88 SiMloiniciqa kh Pooh ep kgcisenee aiseueolae | 7,834 8,368

Another comparison may throw some light on the matter. When
a planet is on a given side of the equator is the hemisphere on the
same side as the planet especially favored with spots? The reply
is contained in the following table:

South, number of | North, number of

spots. spots.
Planet.
South. North. | South. North.
ee eee | 8,419] 5,621] 5,785 5,931
Joule. 4) 380s ee ee ae ne eae 1,512 1,254 1,485 1,329
(ORDME ofa Sa So they SU eA a 6,931 5, 750 7,381 6, 212

This table seems significant if only the left half is considered.
But the preponderance in the southern hemisphere continues whether
the planet is to the south or to the north. That is, in the interval con-
sidered, the southern hemisphere of the sun had habitually more
spots. This may be due to causes within the sun and to no influences
from the planets.
@iu ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

This simple comparison leads us to suspect that the concordances
noted in the plots for the various planets may be due to causes within
the sun, There are two possible reasons for the inequalities in the
plots:

(a) Any given zone relative to the planet can remain invisible from
the earth for months.

(b) The epoch when a particular planetary zone may be favor-
ably seen by a terrestrial observer may fall sometimes in the spot
maximum phase, sometimes in the minimum phase.

The second perturbing effect is graver than the first. The period of
36 years embraced by the Greenwich data is not sufficiently long to
assure us that these two sources of error are eliminated. The method
should not be abandoned, but we must get more observations.

CONCLUSIONS.

It would be presumptious to say that we have unveiled the mode
in which the planets may react upon the sun, but we feel persuaded
that some reaction exists and that it will not always elude us. The
sun may have within itself the reason for its period, but it does not
keep to itself its rythmic action. If it has not sufficient store of
energy in the mutual attraction of its parts, in its rotation or in the
active force of the plants, there remains a resource in the cosmic dust.
Perhaps it is not the matter condensed into the shining stars but that
which is scattered in impalpable particles throughout space which
contributes more to the stability of the universe.

It seems to me that these views suggested by the study of the
heavens help to keep us even in every-day life from discouragement
and indifference. The historian, whose attention is focused on salient
events, may believe that the human race exists only for a few marked
men. The naturalist, accustomed to note the annihilation of the
weak, cries willingly with the poet, “ Le vent n’ecoute pas gemir la
feuille morte” (The wind hears not the sigh of the lifeless leaf).
But that is only apparently true. The dead leaf, in its manner and
measure, reacts on the wind, Already religious moralists warn us that
every act, no matter how small and weak, has a sovereign value when
it is done in conformity with the eternal order. And this conclusion
will not surprise the geometrician, who is constrained to weigh all
in an impartial balance and recognizes in the smallest corner of the
universe an unlimited influence with regard to space and the future.
RECENT PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS.
By C. G. ABBOT.

[ With 38 plates. ]

According to the definition of the word by the late Prof. Newcomb
in the last edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, “Astrophysics is
that branch of astronomical science which treats of the physical
constitution of the heavenly bodies.” Interpreting this definition in
a manner somewhat narrower than that which is generally accepted
in astronomical circles, Prof. Newcomb, in his article on astrophysics,
mentioned the principal conclusions of the science to be that the
heavenly bodies are composed of like matter with that which we
find to make up our globe; that as a rule the incandescent heavenly
bodies are mainly composed of gas, or of substances gaseous in their
nature; and that the temperature of the great heavenly bodies is
extremely high. He thus omitted from the province of astrophysics
the study of the motions of the celestial objects and their parts by
aid of the spectroscope, although this certainly has a bearing on the
physical constitution of these objects. Information of fundamental
importance in relation to the nature of the heavenly bodies and the
evolution of the universe has resulted from investigations of the
radial velocity of stars by the spectroscope; and this is supplemented
and confirmed by observations with the telescope alone. Hence I
shall not confine myself strictly in what follows to Prof. Newcomb’s
definition of astrophysics, but shall include the discussion of several
subjects which have at least an astrophysical bearing, though not
strictly, perhaps, astrophysical in themselves.

THE WAVE LENGTHS OF LIGHT.

All modern spectroscopic progress depends upon the exact knowl-
edge of the wave lengths of the lines of absorption or emission of the
chemical elements. Long ago it was discovered that sodium and its
compounls, when heated to incandescense, gave out a yellow light,
which when examined by the spectroscope, resolved itself into two
lines of wave lengths 5,890 and 5,896 Angstrém units. It was also
found that when sodium vapor was interposed between a source of
white light, like the electric arc, and the slit of the spectroscope,
there would be found in the place of the bright yellow lines of sodium

175
ee 176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

two dark lines of absorption, where light of the are spectrum was
taken away. Similarly, in the spectrum of iron, a great number of |
bright lines are found in the green; and if iron vapor is interposed —
between an electric arc light and the slit of the spectroscope, a great
number of absorption lines will be found at the corresponding places.
Also in the spectra of the sun and of many of the stars there occur
dark lines corresponding exactly in place to the bright lines of the
spectra of the chemical elements found upon the earth’s surface.
From these indications it is clear that these chemical elements exist
as vapors in the substance of the sun and stars. The number of
chemical elements in the sun and stars is so considerable and the num-
ber of their spectrum lines is so great, that the solar and stellar
spectra are thronged with dark lines, so that it takes the most exact
knowledge of the positions of the lines to insure for them a correct
interpretation.

But in recent years a great deal more has been learned by the aid of
the spectroscope in regard to the sun and stars than of their mere con-
stitution, for it is found that although the spectrum lines occur almost
exactly in the same position in the spectra of the heavenly bodies
that they do in the spectra of the laboratory, yet there are slight and
very significant deviations of position which are attributable to the
motion of the heavenly bodies to or from the earth. For, just as in
the whistle of a locomotive, there is a sharping or flatting of the pitch,
depending upon whether the locomotive is coming toward the ob-
server or going away from him, so in the light of the stars there is a
displacement of the spectrum lines toward the violet or toward the
red, according as the star is approaching toward or receding from the
earth. One may go even farther, and say that there is a difference in
the position of the spectrum lines of the sun according as we take
the light from one edge of the sun or the other. For one edge is ap-
proaching the earth by virtue of the rotation of the sun while the
other is receding. It is also shown that the position of the spectrum
lines depends upon the pressure of the gases in which they are pro-
duced, so that it is possible to determine by exact measurements the
pressures under which the gases lie in the sun and stars, although
these are so extraordinarily remote that it takes light minutes or
years to reach the earth from them. Finally, it has been shown by
Zeeman that the form of the spectrum lines of the chemical elements
differs according to whether the light is produced in a magnetic field
or not. Accordingly it is possible to determine from measurements
of the solar spectrum whether magnetic fields exist in the sun, and,
if so, to what intensity they rise.

All these kinds of measurement, which depend upon extremely
slight displacements of the spectrum lines, evidently require that
great accuracy shall be obtained in the determinations of the positions
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—-ABBOT, WE

of these lines in the laboratory. When about the year 1895 Rowland
completed his investigation of the spectrum of the sun and of the
chemical elements, it was thought that the last word had been said
upon this, and that no greater accuracy of positions of the spectrum
lines was necessary, or indeed possible, than he had obtained. But
in recent years it has been found necessary to go over the whole
ground again, and to determine the positions of the lines of the
chemical elements and the lines in the spectrum of the sun with a
still greater accuracy than that of Rowland. This work has been
taken up under the auspices of the International Solar Union, and is
now approaching a satisfactory completion.

In the year 1893 a remarkable piece of work was carried out by
Prof. Michelson (now of the University of Chicago) in the measure-
ment of the wave length of light in terms of the standard meter of
the International Bureau of Weights and Measures at Paris. Several
of the spectrum lines were investigated, and among them the red
line of cadmium, whose wave length as determined by Michelson is
6438.4722 Angstrém units. In pursuance of the investigations re-
cently recommended by the International Solar Union, Messrs. Fabry
and Perot remeasured the wave length of the cadmium line and found
the value 6438.4696, which, it will be seen, differs by less than 3 parts
in 6,000,000 from that obtained by Michelson. On this value of
Fabry and Perot will rest the system of wave lengths adopted by the
International Solar Union.

It had been determined at the meeting of the Union on Mount
Wilson in 1910 that only wave lengths which are independently de-
termined with satisfactory agreement by three observers with the
most approved apparatus should be accepted as secondary wave-
length standards. In pursuance of this action of the Solar Union,
Messrs. Fabry and Buisson in France, Pfund at Baltimore, Eversheim
and Burns in Germany, have been determining with the highest
possible accuracy the wave lengths of certain lines in the spectra of
iron and nickel, selected at nearly equal intervals of wave length.
About 85 such lines have now been measured with satisfactory agree-
ment in three or more independent investigations, and have been
adopted by the International Solar Union as secondary standards
of wave length. These lines cover the spectrum from a wave length
3370.789 Angstrom units, which is far beyond the visible limit of the
spectrum in the violet, to wave length 6750.163 Angstrém units,
which is near the limit of the visible red. It is expected that further
investigations will carry the lists of secondary standards as far as
wave length 2,000 in the ultra-violet, and perhaps as far as wave
length 10,000 in the infrared. The astonishing accuracy of the re-
sults obtained may be inferred when it is said that the three inde-

1The Angstrém unit is one ten-billionth of a meter.

44863°—sm 1918 12

ft 178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

pendent investigations generally agree to the seventh place of spit
cant figures. Also St. John and Ware have investigated the con-
sistency of the standards, each to each, by determining other wave
lengths independently by interpolation from several different stand-
ards, and are of the opinion that adjustments in the seventh place of
significant figures are hardly ever necessary, and will perhaps never
exceed 0.002 Angstrém units in any case. Investigations are now
on foot by St. John and Ware, Goos, Burns, and others to determine
a large number of tertiary standards of wave lengths intermediate
between these secondary standards, and it is hoped that good agree-
ment in regard to the tertiary standards will soon be obtained.

It is found necessary in this work to specify the strength of the
electric current, the length of its arc, and the position of the sht of
the spectroscope with respect to the arc in order to get satisfactory
results. It now remains to go over the whole system of spectra of all
the chemical elements and determine the positions of their lines with
respect to these standard lines of iron, nickel, and barium which
have been adopted, and further to go over the whole solar spectrum
and to determine the position of its absorption lines with respect to
these standards.

Although this will involve an enormous amount of careful work
in photography of the spectrum and in the measurements of the re-
sults, a work which will be so exacting as to appear at times almost
a drudgery to those who are engaged in it, yet like other good work
it is almost beyond question that it will yield unexpected fruits of
discovery in addition to those of investigations of the nature of the
sun and of the stars for which it is primarily undertaken.

SOLAR PROBLEMS.
1. THE NATURE OF SUN SPOTS.

Soon after the invention of the telescope, Galileo, in the year 1610,
observed spots on the sun. They continued to be observed by many
persons, and in the middle of the nineteenth century it was found
by Schwabe that the appearance of them was periodic. The average
interval between successive maxima or minima of sun spots is 11
years, but individual periods range from 8 years to 15 years in length.
The years from 1905 to 1910 were distinguished for large numbers of
sun spots, and the years 1910 to the present time for very small
numbers. We are now probably just at the beginning of a new sun-
spot maximum period, so that the report of spots being seen upon the
surface of the sun need not surprise us. Sun spots, as seen in the
_telescope, consist of a dark central part called the umbra, and a less
dark shading around it called the penumbra. The appearance of the
sun when large spots are upon its surface is shown in the accom-
panying figure (pl. 1).

BS

—

as
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Abbot. PLATE 1.

SOLAR PHOTOGRAPH SHOWING SUN SPOTS.

Taken from the Astrophysical Journal, volume 82, plate 1, figure 1, article of Slocum, page 24, 1910.
‘01g oSvd ‘27 o3R[d §(op 3: uoJoTddy “a ‘L6T GusAAdoD) NS 95, S40 ULOAf UOARL

*AYOLVAUSSAO YVIOS NOSTIM LNNOWW AB dV) WNYLOadS LOdS-NNS

| fe
A ba
| MyITTT fe hdtuber lian
06 ohs} a 09 0S OV O€ 02g

nO) aLV1d ‘Loqqyv—'¢ 161 ‘uoday ueluosy}ILUS
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT. 179

The nature of sun spots has long been a subject of investigation.
In the last few years comparatively satisfactory conclusions have
been drawn. It appears that sun spots are cooler than the surround-
ing surface of the sun. This is shown in several ways. In the first
place, a delicate electrical thermometer, called the bolometer, in the
hands of Langley and subsequent investigators, has shown a de-
creased temperature when exposed to the rays from sun spots, as
compared with its temperature when exposed to the rays of the sur-
face of the sun close by. In the second place, the spectrum of the
sun spot is found to differ from the spectrum of the solar surface in
the immediate neighborhood in certain very characteristic ways.
This difference has been investigated by the Mount Wilson Solar
Observatory. A photographic map of the sun-spot spectrum as com-
pared with the spectrum of the sun’s surface has been published by
that observatory. The accompanying illustration (pl. 2) is taken
from an interesting portion of such a spectrum map.

It shows in the first place that a large number of lines are found
in the sun-spot spectrum which are either very indistinct, or not to
be seen at all in the spectrum of the sun’s surface. It shows in the
second place that certain lines are broadened, or made double, in the
spectrum of the sun spot as compared with the spectrum of the sur-
roundings. In the third place, that some lines are weakened and
some strengthened in sun spots, as compared with those of the sur-
roundings. The cause of the numerous additional lines in the sun-
spot spectrum has been found to be the presence of certain compound
substances, such as calcium hydride, magnesium hydride, and certain
oxides, as, for example, that of titanium. The cause of the different
intensity of certain lines in the spectra of the spot and of the sur-
roundings is shown by Hale, Adams, and Gale to be the decreased
temperature of the sun spot. This conclusion they confirm, line for
line, by noting the behavior of the lines of the corresponding chemi-
eal elements when observed at different temperatures, by the aid of
the spectroscope, in the laboratory.

The doubling or widening of the lines of the sun-spot spectrum was
found by Hale to be due to the presence in sun spots of a magnetic
field. This observation depends on the discovery of Zeeman that the
spectrum lines of the chemical elements, when produced in a strong
magnetic field, are often doubled or trebled or made even more com-
plex. The component lines, so produced, depend as regards their
position, number, and the polarization of their light, upon the
strength and direction of the magnetic field through which they are
observed. The relation of magnetization to the polarization of the
light was the feature of the matter which laid the subject of. the
widening of lines in sun spots open to Hale’s investigation. By the
use of proper apparatus for the polarizing and analyzing of light,
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

he was able to remove or alter the individual components of the
spectrum lines in a manner adapted to show the magnetic field exist-
ing in the sun spots where the light was produced. This most inter-
esting discovery he has now pushed still further, and has examined
the magnetic field of the whole surface of the sun. He finds that
there exists upon the sun a magnetic field similar in many of its char-
acteristics to that which exists in the earth, although the intensity of
the field is so extremely slight that the shifts or alterations of spec-
trum lines caused by it are almost beyond the possibility of disclosure.

Recently it was shown by Evershed that in the penumbras or dark-
ened edges of sun spots, there are found shiftings of the spectrum
lines which show that the vapors are moving outward from the
center of the spot, or umbra, toward the outlying parts of the penum-
bra. Later investigation shows that this outflow of the gases from
the umbra toward the outer part of the penumbra is accompanied
by a motion of rotation also around the umbra, so that the motion
resolves itself into a whirling of these vapors or gases similar to
that which is found in a waterspout. This has a very important
bearing on the explanation of the magnetic field in sun spots dis-
covered by Hale, for it was shown by Rowland many years ago that
an electric charge in motion has the property of an electric current of
producing a magnetic field. Thus if there are in sun spots materials
under dissimilar electric conditions, and these materials be whirled
as in a waterspout, they must necessarily produce a magnetic field.
St. John, of the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory, has made a thor-
ough investigation of the motions of the vapors in the neighborhood
of sun spots, using the spectrum lines of many of the chemical ele-
ments. He finds that the displacements of the spectrum lines of iron
and some other well-known metals indicates a motion away from the
umbra. The motion, on the other hand, of magnesium and hydrogen
and some other of the lighter chemical elements is toward the
umbra. Is was also shown some years ago in a photograph by St.
John that hydrogen gas is sometimes sucked into the center of a sun
spot.

All these various lines of evidence indicate that a sun spot is a
whirl in the gases of the outer part of the sun, analagous to a water-
spout, and that this whirl comes from within outward. Associated
with the whirl there is produced a magnetic field, and associated
with the outward motion of the materials a decrease of pressure.
The decreased pressure of the gases causes their expansion and conse-
quent cooling, so that the coolness of the sun spot is thereby ex-
plained. As the gases spread out at the surface of the sun, the
lighter gases—hydrogen and others—which are found in the outer-
most solar layers, are sucked into the partial vacuum at the center
of the whirl.
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT., 181
2. SOUNDING THE SOLAR DEPTHS.

St. John’s investigations of radial motion in the neighborhood of
sun spots have led him to further very interesting results. For it
appears that if one takes the various lines of iron as found in the

Pressure Elevation

Z in atm's in km,
a HG KS
0.0 25000
SS Ha
7
pate
$< HK
4
13.000
1 ee
\ “
i or
! eg
| | ui S 275) 5) e
i Trew A Ho us Chromosph€ére 4000
\ / wv / /
Le, Ca eet / a
ty Le, pie
pies oi 15- 20° Fe (15-40) eel (of velocity - inversion ~~
ig oes ia
if 1 > MeO a a
rH if % 7 a wa 2 eg
i n 10 Fe Bae Reversing layer
! N a
il! “ee Ve Sx ge 3000
ll TEES Fe Py
I fom Fe aN 0.5
Mp4 > Fe -” Ni se 30 800
wl 4 (ee as \ De
i, | 3—-—H———_——__+> Fe \ os 57
Si pe ea as a Fe Siege 250
2

Fic. 1.—Vertical section of reversing layer and chromosphere, showing distribution of
radial velocities of sun spots.

The lengths of solid lines are proportional to radial displacements of the corresponding
Fraunhofer lines. Arrows indicate direction of flow. The rounded head of the cyclonic
disturbance is suggested by the broken-line curve enveloping the outward velocities.
Broken iines with arrows refer to possible velocities below the accessible levels. Lines
of force of the magnetic field are indicated in the usual way.—From Report on Mount
Wilson Solar Observatory, by George E. Hale, Twelfth Year Book Carnegie Institution of
Washington, 1913.

sun’s spectrum, classifying them according to their faintness after the
manner of Rowland, the fainter lines show greater displacements
and thereby more rapid outflowing in the sun-spot whirls than do the
brighter ones. In fact, the brightest iron lines show less than a
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

fourth as great displacements as do the fainter ones. Now, it appears
from various lines of reasoning that the fainter lines should be the
ones that are formed at the greatest depths, so that St. John is able
to arrange the iron spectrum with reference to faintness and with
reference to velocity of outflow in sun spots in a series which very
probably indicates a progressive depth of sounding below the sur-
face of the sun. Then corresponding to this iron scale, if he takes
the lines of the other chemical elements, comparing them line by line
as regards velocity of outflow with the velocity shown by his iron
scale, he may arrange all the chemical elements in terms of the iron
scale, in the order of their depths of occurrence below the sun’s
surface.

In this way he finds, as is indeed indicated by other lines of re-
search, that the heavy chemical elements will he the lowest, and vice
versa. Corresponding to this arrangement it is natural to find that
the lines of calcium, sodium, magnesium, and hydrogen indicate a
flow of greater and greater velocity in the opposite direction from
those of iron, so that these elements are arranged above the upper-
most level of the iron lines in a progress outward from the general
solar surface. Thus, as shown in figure 1, we may have the arrange-
ment of the vapors as they exist in the sun, from the hydrogen at
the highest level down to the elements like lead, lanthanum, barium,
at relatively low levels. Such elements as uranium (and radium,
if it exists in the sun) are so very high in atomic weight that they
lie very deep down in the sun and do not give solar-spectrum lines
at all, so that we shall probably not obtain direct proof of the ex-
istence of radium in the sun on account of the low level at which
it must lie if present there. We have, to be sure, long known of
the existence in the sun of helium, which is a product of the disins
tegration of radium. This may, perhaps, indicate that the parent
substance, radium, is also present in the sun, but of this there is no

certainty.
3. MEASUREMENTS OF SOLAR RADIATION

In the Smithsonian Report for 1912 the writer gave an illustrated
account of the investigations of solar radiation by the Astrophysical
Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution. In July, 1913, the results
of this long investigation were published with details in volume 3 of
the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. The most important
conclusions are as follows:

1. The mean value of the solar constant of radiation for the epoch
1905-1912 is 1.932 calories per square centimeter per minute.

2. An increase of 0.07 calory per square centimeter per minute in
the “solar constant” accompanies an increase of 100 sun-spot numbers.

3. An irregular variation frequently ranging over 0.07 calory
per square centimeter per minute within an interval of 10 days is
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT. 183

established by numerous nearly simultaneous measurements at Mount
Wilson, Cal., and Bassour, Algeria.

4, Indications of two wholly independent kinds incline us to think
that these variations of solar radiation are caused within the sun,
and not by iuterposing meteoric or other matter.

STELLAR PROBLEMS.
I. THE DISTANCES OF THE STARS.

The actual distances of several hundred of the stars can be said
to be known within moderate limits of accuracy. Various methods
are used for determining the distances of the stars, but they gen-
erally depend upon the fact that the earth, by reason of its revolu-
tion about the sun, occupies places separated by 186,000,000 miles
at intervals six months apart. This corresponds to the surveyor’s
base line, and allows us to triangulate for the distances of the stars.
Another method of estimating the stellar distances may be based
upon the fact that the solar system is approaching the constellation
Hercules at the rate of about 20 kilometers (12 miles) per second, so
that the position occupied by the earth in space to-day is different
from that which will be occupied to-morrow by reason of the motion
of the solar system, but this method involves assumptions in regard
to the motions peculiar to the stars observed.

It is customary to express the distances of the stars in light-years,
for the distances of the stars, if given in kilometers or miles, or even
in terms of the radius of the earth’s orbit, are so enormous as to
require many figures. Light, however, traveling at the rate of 186,000
miles per second, in the course of a year travels about 6,000,000,-
000,000 miles. In terms of this unit the nearest star is at a distance
of four and a half light-years. The stellar distances are considered
up to such enormous quantities as a thousand or more light-years.
It is also customary to speak of the parallaxes of stars. By this is
meant the angle which the radius of the earth’s orbit would subtend
if viewed most favorably from the star in question. The parallaxes °
of the stars range from about one second of are (1’’) downward.
The following table shows the relation between miles, light-years,
and parallaxes of stars:

Star. a Centauri. Procyon. Altair. Castor. Arcturus. Antares.
tr at ut Mt ut ”
Parallax. . 0.75 0.33 0. 23 0.10 0. 066 0. 02
Light-years . 4.5 10.0 14.5 33.3 50.0 166.7
Miles... ... 127,000,000 | ! 60,000,000 | 187,000,000 | 200,000,000 | 300,000,000 | 1 1,000, 000, 000

1 000,000 omitted.

The first successful measurements on stellar parallaxes were made
by Struve at Dorpat on the star Vega in the years 1835 to 1838, and
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

by Bessel on the star 61 Cygni, 1837 to 1840. Bessel’s result was
0.35’’.. This value is in close accord with recent measurements. It
was a great feat to measure such a small angle as this. In modern
practice the efforts to measure parallaxes absolutely have practically
been discontinued, for it is found that the very faint stars are so
immensely distant from us as hardly to be displaced at all in their
apparent positions by the motion of the earth in its orbit. Hence, for
stars which are near enough to be observed for parallax it suffices to
compare their positions with respect to the faint stars in their neigh-
borhoods at two epochs separated from one another by six months.

Many of the parallax determinations of great weight have been
made by use of the heliometer, which is a telescope with its objective
lens cut in half, with the two parts movable with respect to one
another by a fine screw. With this instrument the images of two
celestial objects, one formed by one-half of the lens and the other
by the other may be brought into coincidence by shifting the two
parts of the lens with respect to one another, and the scale of the
instrument gives thereby an indication of the angular distance be-
tween the two objects in the heavens. Thus the relative positions of
the stars may be observed for parallax purposes.

Stellar parallax measurements by means of the heliometer have
been the main work of the Astronomical Observatory of Yale
University. A volume of the Transactions of the Observatory
has been issued recently containing the results. The parallaxes of
195 stars have been ascertained with an average probable error of
0.015’’. The stars investigated at Yale naturally do not include
stars visible only in the southern hemisphere. The parallaxes of
some of the southern stars have been observed with the heliometer
from the Observatory of the Cape of Good Hope. Of the parallaxes
determined at Yale the largest pertaining to a bright star is 0.33”
for the star Procyon, whose magnitude is 0.6, and which has a proper
motion in the sky of 1.23’’ per century.t. According to the little table
just given it will be seen that this corresponds to a distance of
10 light-years. The largest parallax found for any star by the

1The stars have long been arranged with respect to their brightness, by “ magnitudes.”
A number of the brightest stars in the heavens are regarded as of the first magnitude.
The Polar Star is of the second magnitude, and the brightness of the faintest of the six
readily visible stars in the constellation Pleiades is 4.4 magnitudes. An increase of five
magnitudes corresponds to a decrease of a hundredfold in the brightness of the stars. It
was found when the measured distances of the stars were arranged in the order of the
magnitudes of the stars observed that the brighter stars were on the whole nearer to
us than the fainter ones.

The ‘proper motion’ of a star is ordinarily given as the angle through which the
star moves in a century in the heavens, after allowances are made for all effects of
nutation, precession, aberration, etc., but not for the motion of the solar system toward
the constellation Hercules. Proper motion therefore includes the star’s real motion
in space with reference to the whole system of stars and, in addition, the star’s apparent
motion, really due to the motion of the solar system toward the constellation Hercules,
Proper motions tend of course to diminish the greater the distances of the stars considered.
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—-ABBOT. 185

observations at Yale was 0.39’’ for the faint star known as Lalande
21185. This star is invisible to the eye, being of magnitude 7.3
and has a proper motion of 4.77’’ per century.

Another method of parallax investigation which has been devel-
oped in recent years to a high state of perfection is that by photog-
raphy. If a photograph of a celestial region containing the star
whose parallax is to be determined is made in the earlier part of the
night at one epoch, and again in the latter part of the night at an
epoch six months later, the position of the parallax star will in gen-
eral be found to be changed with respect to the mean position of all
the fainter stars in its neighborhood. After clearing the apparent
motions for the known proper motions of the stars in question, a
residual effect will be left, due to the fact that the parallax star is
in general nearer than the fainter stars in the background. In a
method proposed by Kapteyn the photography was done in the fol-
lowing manner: A plate was exposed at a certain epoch, then kept
without developing for six months, exposed again in a slightly dif-
ferent position, and then kept still another six months, and finally
exposed a third time before developing. Thus three series of images
of all the stars would be found upon the plate, of which two would
be taken with the earth in one part of its orbit and the other with the
earth at the opposite part. Recently Prof. Schlesinger, formerly of
the Yerkes Observatory, now director of the Allegheny Observatory,
has used the photographic method with the great Yerkes refractor,
and has obtained parallaxes for about 25 stars of a very high order of
accuracy. Prof. H. N. Russell, of Princeton, also has obtained excel-
lent results by this method for 52 stars observed by himself and
Hinks at Cambridge, England. These observers did not leave the
plates undeveloped for a year or 18 months, according to the method
proposed by Kapteyn, but preferred to take separate plates at the
different epochs. This parallax work by photography is becoming
extremely well thought of by astronomers, and is engaging more and
more the efforts of those who have large refracting telescopes avail-
able for this purpose.

Tt is found, as would be expected, that in general the brightest
stars are nearer the earth, and the stars whose proper motions are
largest are also nearer the earth. Prof. Kapteyn published, in 1902,
a formula connecting the quantities parallax, stellar magnitude, and
proper motion. This is found to agree pretty well with more recent
work. Prof. Lewis Boss, in his interesting discussion of the great
Preliminary General Catalogue of positions and proper motions
of stars, recently published by the Carnegie Institution, has also
derived a formula connecting the proper motion and the parallax for
stars of the 5.3 magnitude.
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The positions of the stars in the heavens change slightly from
year to year, owing to two causes: First, the motion of the solar sys-
tem as a whole in the direction toward the constellation Hercules;
second, the individual motions peculiar to stars themselves, The
first-mentioned component of proper motion increases directly as the
stellar distance descreases. Stellar parallax observers, being over-
whelmed by the enormous number of the stars, were obliged to choose
from them a small list for observation. It was natural to select stars
of large proper motion for such a purpose, since these would prob-
ably represent the class nearest to the earth. Hence if we take, for
instance, from the list of stars whose parallax has been determined
a group whose mean parallax is 0.1’’, the mean of their proper mo-
tions exceeds the mean proper motion, which would be found for all
the stars whose parallax is 0.1’’, if all those stars had been investi-
gated. Hence it must occur that, as the distances of more and more
of the stars become known, our estimated value for the mean dis-
tance, corresponding to stars of a given brightness or a given proper
motion must diminish.

2. MOTIONS OF THE STARS.

Within the last few years great pieces of statistical investigation
in relation to the stars have been published which are of the highest
value for the progress of our knowledge of the universe. Americans
should be particularly proud of several of these investigations.

The first is by the Harvard College Observatory, under the direc-
tion of Prof. E. C. Pickering. Volume 50 of its annals, containing
the Revised Harvard Photometry, gives a catalogue of the positions,
photometric magnitudes, and spectra of 9,110 stars, mainly of the
6.5 magnitude and brighter, covering both the northern and southern
hemisphere. A still more extensive work of a similar kind, to be
called the Revised Draper Catalogue, which will include data for
probably 200,000 stars, is now in course of preparation at the
Harvard College Observatory and may be expected to be finished
within a short time, thanks to Prof. Pickering’s great eare in the
arrangement of the work.

The second great work to which I refer is entitled “ Preliminary
General Catalogue of 6,188 stars for the epoch 1900. Prepared at
the Dudley Observatory, Albany, N. Y., by Lewis Boss and pub-
lished by the Department of Meridian Astrometry of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, 1910.” Prof. Boss says: “The general
catalogue of 6,188 stars herein contained is the result of an attempt
to deduce for these stars the most exact positions and motions that
are readily attainable from the means at command.” In compiling
it he has compared about 80 star catalogues, from the catalogue of
Bradley, dated 1755, to modern catalogues of the period 1900. From
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT. 187

these he has deduced the most probable positions in right ascension
and declination of the stars, and the proper motions of the stars as
indicated by the observations of them at long separated epochs. The
result obtained with regard to proper motion have led him to a most
interesting series of papers, some conclusions of which will be re-
ferred to in what follows:

The third great piece of work to which I have referred is not yet
published in extenso, but has been published in part. It exists in
maunscript, and the principal conclusions to be immediately derived
from it have already been published in a series of interesting papers
by Prof. W. W. Campbell, director of the Lick Observatory.

Tt is now 16 years since Director Campbell described the Mills
spectrograph of the Lick Observatory. This fine instrument, re-
modeled in 1902, has been unremittingly used by him until the pres-
ent time. A companion Mills spectrograph was installed under Di-
rector Campbell’s direction in Chile in the year 1903, and this also
has been diligently employed by successive observers sent down from
the Lick Observatory.

It was Director Campbell’s intention in this long campaign to ob-
serve the spectra of all stars brighter than the fifth magnitude, in
both the northern and southern hemispheres, in a manner adapted
to determine accurately the motion of each of these stars in the line
of sight; that is to say, in a direction toward or fromtheearth. This
motion is also termed radial velocity. The time of exposure neces-
sary for photographing a single spectrum ranges from a few minutes
up to several hours, according to the brightness of the star and the
quality of the atmospheric conditions. It is necessary in such a
campaign as that which the Lick Observatory has been making to ob-
serve each of the stars several times in order to confirm the velocity
found or to detect the presence of variability of velocity, such as
often leads to the most interesting results. The Lick Observatories
in California and Chile have observed between 1,000 and 2,000 stars
for radial velocity, and these, with a considerable number of others
observed by other observatories, made up a list exceeding 1,700 in
number, which was discussed by Director Campbell in a series of
papers in the year 1911.

About one-fourth of the stars observed were found to be spectro-
scopic binaries. That is to say, although they appeared to be single
points of light to the telescope, yet certain peculiarities in the dis-
placements of their spectrum lines from time to time indicated that
each of the apparent points of light embraced a system of celestial
objects comparable in some respects with the solar system. This
similarity, however, does not extend to details, for the objects in-
eluded in a spectroscopic binary, or multiple star, are each usually
hot enough to give light by itself, and in general are objects of more
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

approximately equal size than the sun and the planets. The motions
of a considerable number of these spectroscopic binaries have been
investigated by mathematicians, and the orbits of the motions have
been determined, but there still remains a large number of them for
which this information is not yet available. These latter objects
were rejected from Prof. Campbell’s general discussion of the stellar
motions on account of the indefiniteness which must attend their
motions for a time. There are besides a considerable number of stars
whose spectra are so vague and difficult to measure that the results
from them are uncertain. Accordingly, there remained available for
his investigation only about 1,200 objects.

The first investigation relates to the motion of the solar system in
space. As in a forest walk the trees in front seem to separate as we
approach and those behind to come together as we recede, so the stars
to the telescopic observer would appear to crowd toward the point
of the sky from which we are receding and to separate from that
point of the sky toward which we are approaching, if the sun with
the planets is in motion in the heavens with respect to the positions
of the stars. Such tendencies were noted by Sir William Herschel
in 1783, from a consideration of the proper motions of 18 stars, all
then available. He found that the solar system was traveling ap-
proximately toward the star } Hercules, in right ascension 262°,
declination, +26°.

The information found by the spectroscope relates to motion at
right angles to that which is observed by the telescope, so that while
the telescopic observer would find the stars precisely in the solar
apex to have no component of motion caused by their relations to
the solar system, the spectroscopic observer would find these stars
to be approaching the earth with the maximum velocity, while those
at the opposite point would be receding from the earth with the same
velocity. The telescopic observer, looking at right angles to the
line of motion of the solar system, would see the stars at the maxi-
mum velocity, whereas the spectroscopic observer, looking in the
same direction, would find no radial velocity at all caused by the
solar motion.

Director Campbell’s general solution for the solar motion derived
from all the stars investigated, 1,193 in number, gave the following
values: Apex at right ascension, 268°.5, declination +25°.1, and
velocity 19.5 kilometers per second.

In Prof. Lewis Boss’s discussion of the proper motions of 6,188
stars, he also has derived the position of the apex toward which
the solar system is approaching. He finds it in right ascension
270°.52, declination +34°.28, and he finds that for stars situated at
90° from the apex, which of course, will show the greatest apparent
velocity of recession from the apex, the mean rate of apparent mo-
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT. 189

tion is 3.85’’ per year. This is called the mean solar parallactic
motion for the star group. Now, of course, the parallactic motions
of the stars depend upon their distances from the earth, and natur-
ally will be less for the fainter stars than for the brighter ones,
since the fainter ones are situated at the greatest distances.

The mean magnitude of all the stars investigated by Boss was
5.7, but he selects 559 stars having large proper motions whose
average magnitude was 5.3 and for which the mean solar parallactic
motion was 21.58’. Prof. Boss then goes on to compare the magni-
tude and parallaxes of 130 stars ate: parallaxes had been meas-
ured, and thereby obtains a formula connecting the parallax and
proper motion for stars of the magnitude 5.3. He thus has a meas-
ure of the distance of the stars of large proper motion which he is
considering, and from this he finds that the velocity of the solar
system, in its motion toward the constellation Hercules, is 24.5 kilo-
meters (15 miles) per second. Readers will note that this value is
derived quite independently from that of Prof. Campbell, and that
it is about 25 per cent larger than his. But from the considerations
above mentioned (under the caption “ Distances of the stars”) prob-
ably a reduction of the estimated distances corresponding to given
proper ‘motions will be brought about as more determinations of
stellar distances become available. Thus Prof. Boss’s estimate will
be brought down toward that of Prof. Campbell.

It is found that the fainter stars are on the whole at greater dis-
tances from the sun than the brighter ones, so that the star list of
Boss relates on the average to a system of stars at a greater distance
from the observer than the star list of Campbell. A reason has
already been assigned for supposing Boss’s value of the solar motion
too high. It may be on the other hand that the sun’s motion is to
some extent shared by the stars which are its more immediate neigh-
bors, so that its velocity with respect to them is smaller than with
respect to the stars which are more remote.

Prof. Campbell has adopted in his later discussions the round
numbers 270° right ascension and 30° declination for the position
of the solar apex, and the velocity of 19.5 kilometers as the rate of
its motion toward this apex.

With these quantities determined, it is possible to ae from the
observed radial velocity of each star a component which depends
upon the motion of the sun, and thus to leave to each star its own
individual motion with respect to the earth, as the earth would be if
fixed in space with reference to the whole system of stars considered.
As the sun moves at the rate of 19.5 kilometers per second in a cer-
tain direction, so for each of the other stars investigated, there
should be a certain velocity and direction of motion. The stars have
been classified at the Harvard College Observatory under the direc-
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion of Prof. E. C. Pickering, with regard to the nature of their
spectrum. The principal groups of the Harvard classification are
designated by the letters B, A, F, G, K, M. The peculiarities of
these types of spectra are indicated in the accompanying plate 3.
We see the progressive greater complexity of the spectra from type
to type. Campbell points out the very interesting fact that the more
complex the star spectrum, the greater the velocity of the star in
space, with regard to a point so fixed that the algebraic sum of the
velocities of all the stars with respect to it is 0. The same conclusion
is derived independently by Boss from a consideration, not of radial
motions, but of thwart motions of the stars. The results of Campbell
and Boss are compared in the following table. We assume for Boss’s
results as for Campbell’s that the velocity of the solar system toward
its apex of motion is 19.5 kilometers per second, thus the angular
motion observed by the telescope may be converted into its linear
equivalent. Unfortunately the grouping of stars by the two ob-
servers is different as regards the subclasses of the Harvard classifi-
cation.

Campbell. Boss.
| l
Component | Component
of peculiar of peculiar
Classes. Noe of! velocity | Classes. yee of | “velocity
; (km. per i (km. per
second). second).
| i Ve
B-B5.. 1312 6.2 Oe5-B5. 490 6.4
B8-B9. 90 Geis Teese. Dee ees ee. ee
see 172 10.5 B&s-A4. 1,647 9.9
i) ae 180 14.4 A5-FS.. 656 15.8
(CL aie. 118 15.9 Gx egeeee 444 18.1
ee 346 16.8 Bic etree 1,227 14.7
WI eae 71 17.1 ER a 222 16.7
1,289 4, 686

1 For 132 of these stars the radial velocity is estimated.

The reader must note that the results, both of Boss and of Camp-
bell, relate only to a certain component of the motion of the stars.
In the case of Boss it is derived from that component of the proper
motion, which is at right angles to the solar pathway; and in that
of Campbell it is that component of the radial motion which is in the
plane of the star and the solar pathway and is at right angles to the
solar motion. If it is assumed that the stars have no preference for
motion in one direction rather than another and that they are well
distributed over the whole celestial sphere it follows that the values
above given from both observers are but half the average velocity of
the group of stars, considering their motions in the real directions
which they have in space, and not merely the components of motion
found by Boss and Campbell. Thus we find for stars of group G,
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Abbot. PLATE 3.

e Orionis.

@ Carine

@ Can. Min.

@ Aurigee.

& Bootis.

& Orionis,

TYPICAL STELLAR SPECTRA.

From Annals Harvard College Observatory, volume 64, No. 4, plate 1.

<i i
ol = =
é i
‘
5
as
=
a 1
~ >
m3
‘
“0
Fal
=
r
“
vm _
q =)
v1,
if 7
| jas
eh te Ge A
1 loka
er bee -
ow
¥
i
;
yi
o.4;
‘ a -

‘=
a
» oI
a

a Ug
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS—ABBOT. 191

to which our sun belongs, an average velocity of 32 or more kilo-
meters per second, which is considerably greater than 19.5, which is
assigned to our sun.

The Milky Way, composed as it is of a vast number of stars, has
long been a circle of reference in the heavens for the discussion of the
distribution of the stars. Not only are the individual stars crowded
more closely in the Milky Way than elsewhere, but the crowding is
different with different spectral types. Thus Prof. Pickering
pointed out in his discussion of Harvard Revised Photometry that the
stars of the early types, type B especially, were to be found prepon-
deratingly in the neighborhood of the Milky Way. This tendency
of the stars to distribute themselves differently with respect to the
Milky Way has been summarized by Prof. Boss in the following
tables, in which he gives the numbers of stars of different spectral
types to be found in zones at different distances from the center of
the Milky Way, and also the numbers of stars of the different types
which occur in equal areas in these zones, assuming for the zone +10
to —10° a number of 100. We see that the stars of the so-called
“later types” G K M are nearly uniformly distributed over the
heavens, but that the stars of the “early types,” especially B, are
very unequally distributed, and crowd more and more toward the

Milky Way.

ENUMERATION OF TYPES IN GALACTIC ZONES.

l [TrwG e
Zone. Limits. VPM BE AWA BoM. | gh ae M |
= |
| ° ° | | i
Keyan +10 to —10 | 237 422 142 | 103 937 33 |
II +10 to +30 105 310 104 63 205 34
Il +30 to +50 4 170 89 66 155 31 |
IV +50 to +70 5 100 51 30 102 24
Vv +70 to £90 2 32 13 12 | Son 5 |
1 {

RELATIVE AREAL DENSITIES IN PERCENTAGES.

Zone. Limits. B A | F | GKM |
}
ene
: 5
ry States. Sto. PF") 100°" A s00" a! 5 * Foor
II 410 to £30 47 78 78 87
UI | +30 to +50 7 53 82 R4 |
IV +50 to £70 5 47 72 84 |
V £70 to £90 5 44 53 76 |

In several respects the stars of class B are very remarkable. Dr.
Campbell has stated that in a space concentric with the sun, which
must contain hundreds of stars of other spectral classes, there would
_ probably not be a single one of class B. Thus, B stars are, on the
__ whole, excessively remote. In the second place, they seem to be very
_ bright stars, for, as Prof. Pickering states, a count of the class B
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

stars indicates that of the bright, visible stars one out of four belongs
to this class, while of the stars of the sixth magnitude there is only
1 out of 20, and that few, if any, would be found fainter than the
seventh or eighth magnitude.

It has been strongly intimated by such men as Kapteyn, Campbell,
and Boss that the order of spectra B, A, F, G, K, M indicates sub-
stantially the order of development of the stars in time, so that the
stars of class B may be regarded as the younger stars, and those of
classes A, F, G, K, and M, successively, older and older. Prof. Boss
goes so far as to say: “ There can scarcely be a doubt that the same
stars that are now seen of the spectral type A were in past ages of
the spectral type B, and then at a mean velocity of approximately
only two-thirds or three-fourths that which they have at present. It
seems equally probable that A stars of the present will eventually
become stars of the second type in the future, and along with that
physical development will acquire an increase of mean velocity about
50 per cent greater than that those stars now have. This fundamental
fact of acceleration in the means of the stellar motions must have a
vital bearing on questions of stellar development.”

It is known that the spectrum of the general surface of the sun,
which is like that of stars of class G, goes over into the spectrum of
a sun spot, which is like that of stars of class K, by a mere lowering
of temperature. It is also known of all bodies with which we are
familiar upon the earth, that when, as time passes, they lose energy
by radiation they cool. Accordingly it seems probable that stars of
class G will at length reach the condition of class K by the mere
cooling incidental to the continuation of their radiation to space
through long periods of time. The gradual progress in form of
spectrum from class B to class M, the gradual progress in velocity of
motion from class B to class M, the gradual progress in distribution
in space from class B to class M, and other lines of gradual progress
which could be named, all seem to show that the arrangement of the
stars according to this classification corresponds to the march of a
fundamental progress in nature. That this progress is in point of
time from stars of simpler spectrum to those of the more complex,
and not the opposite, is indicated by the consideration with regard
to the sun-spot spectrum which I have just cited.

In contemplation of these various facts Prof. Campbell has re-
marked as follows:

The close relationship of the class B stars to the Milky Way, their low radial
and tangential velocities, the apparent absence of class B stars in both near
space and distant space, a clustering of many of these stars in apparently

related groups—for example, in the Orion region—lead us to believe that the
present class B stars assumed stellar form in regions relatively near their

10f Secchi’s classification, in which B to F types are I, G to K are II, and M is III.
PROGRESS IN ASTROPHYSICS——ABBOT, 193

present positions. They may have originated from comparatively few great
separate collections of matter in or near the plane of the Milky Way. The
? variety of motions which we observe in the stars in one of these apparent
groups might, perhaps, have originated from the influence of the passing of
} many individual stars through the immense volume of space occupied by the
group. The absence of class B stars in our vicinity may indicate primeval
vacancy in this region, or the development of the stars in this region to an
effective age beyond that corresponding to the class B spectrum.

iS Kapteyn has said:
} iy

at one” that from whatever matter our youngest stars—the helium stars-—
may ha.2 deen evolved, that matter must have in all probability still smaller
internal motion. Let us eall this matter primordial matter. As the internal
velocity of the helium stars is already so very small, we come to the conclu-
sion that primordial matter must practically have hardly any other motion
than the motion of the cloud to which it belongs.

4 _ As the younger the stars are the smaller are their internal motions, it follows
q
(i

The statements quoted above, and many others which might be
quoted from astronomical literature, lead us to the conclusion that
their writers assume the following evolution of the universe, begin-
ning from the nebula, and proceeding with passing time to the stages
of the classes B, A, F, G, K, M in spectra. Originally the matter
had very low velocity in space, and as the stars were formed and
q grew in age their velocity became greater and greater. Whatever

the drift which the original primordial matter may have had, the
_ formation of the stars and the gravitation which they mutually
exert, together with their increasing velocity in space, tended to
alter the motions of the stars from a slow drift in some particular
direction to a much more rapid progress of individual stars in every
conceivable direction. This motion naturally took the stars of the
later types farther and farther from the original seat of the primor-
dial matter, so that now, although we find the class B stars still
mainly confined to the neighborhood of the Milky Way, yet for
other types of stars the dispersion has gone farther and farther.
_ For stars similar in constitution to our sun, and naturally of the
same order of age as the sun, the circumstances of the wandering
have naturally been much the same, so that we find the stars of ap-
proximately the spectral class of our sun to be, on the whole, in the
less remote parts of space. When, however, we consider the stars
_ of most advanced type, of spectral class M, whose wanderings have
continued for the most untold ages, we find these stars as a class in
the more remote parts of the universe.
Although this speculation is supported by a good many facts of
observation yet it is only fair to state that there are astronomers
q of very high eminence who consider either that the time is not ripe
_ for such speculations, or that the evidence may equally well be

1Class B.
44868°-—sm 1913-13
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

arranged to suit other conclusions. If we assume the line of specu-
lation stated above we must be interested in the following statement
of Prof. Kapteyn:

There is another problem involved in our observations which might seem to
be of no less importance than the one just now considered. How have we to
explain the fact that the internal velocity of the stars increases with age? The
astronomer who, in the study of the motion of the heavenly bodies, has found
hardly a trace of any other force than gravitation, will naturally turn to gravi-
tation for such an explanation; and it really seems a necessity that under the
influence of their mutual gravitation, bodies which at the outset have little or
no relative motion must get such a motion, which, up to a certain limit at least,
will increase with time. Thus far there is no great difficulty. But now let us
look further back in time, back to the time in which the stars had not yet been
formed, in which matter was still in its primordial state. If it be true that
mutual attraction of the stars has generated such an enormous amount of inter-
nal motion in the time needed by the stars for their evolution from helium to sec-
ond or third type stars, how have we to explain the fact that we find that same
matter nearly at rest at the first stage of stellar life? That in the prehelium ages
gravitation had produced hardly any motion? He who believes in a creation
of matter at some finitely remote epoch may find no difficulty in the question,
but to him who does not, there is something astonishing to see matter behave
as if there were no gravitation. What may be the explanation? Is there really
no gravitation in primordial matter, or is there another force exactly counter-
balancing its effects?

I have no solution to offer. I simply wish to point out that here is a great
vroblem, which in my opinion deserves the attention of the physicist no less
than that of the astronomer.
Cerer ‘Aww onurg *y ‘y Aq uayRy, Mots] a,

“JOOY
3JHL NO AYOLVAYSSEO SIH DNIMOHS ‘GYOsSXO LV 3ASNOH S:ASTIVH

"| 31v1d syaneg—'¢ 16] ‘Hoday uR}UOsy}IWS
THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM.

By L. A. BAUER,

Director, Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of
Washington.

[ With 9 plates. |

It is indeed a great privilege and pleasure to give a lecture at Ox-
ford, where Edmund Halley, whose name the founder has so wisely
coupled with this lectureship, labored devotedly in the interest of
science; and to be permitted, in some small measure, to pay the debt
of terrestrial magnetism, and my own personal debt as well, tc this
illustrious investigator.

Halley’s varied scientific activity and his wide sympathies were well
set forth by the Halley lecturer? of two years ago, who had as his
subject an astronomical one, “ The stars in their courses.” Last year’s
lecture,? “ Large earthquakes,” by that zealous pioneer, Prof. Milne,
again exemplified both the scope of this lectureship and the fact that
Halley’s interest and achievements in geophysical science, though not
generally so well known as his astronomical discoveries, were no less
great. The subject of the lecture to-night, “The earth’s magnetism,”
is one in which Halley’s name stands out preeminent among the early
students of the science. As it is a large subject and one in which there
might be much discursive rambling, we shall do well to limit ourselves
somewhat—to choose our starting point and then proceed in certain
definite directions.

The adopted flag of the Chinese Republic consists of five stripes,
partly because, as I am told, in China all good things are five—five
seasons, five principal grains, five genii, five relationships that make
up life, and five points of the compass, north, south, east, west, and
center. lor, to the Chinese, the starting-out point is as important as
the point to which, or direction in which, a journey is made. So
it also must be with us to-night.

+The fourth “ Halley lecture,” delivered in the schools of the University of Oxford on
_ May 22, 1913; illustrated by lantern slides. Reprinted, after revision by the author and
_ with added illustrations, from Bedrock, vol. 2, No. 3, October, 1913, pp. 273-294.

? Prof. H. H. Turner, D. Se., D.C. L., F.R.S., Savilian professor of astronomy, Univer-
sity of Oxford (see Bedrock, vol. 1, No. 1, April, 1912, pp. 88-107).
® Published in Bedrock, vol. 1, No. 2, July, 1912, pp. 137-156.
195
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

According to the regulations governing this lecture, it is to be
known as the “Halley lecture on astronomy and terrestrial mag-
netism.” “Astronomy shall include astrophysics, and terrestrial
magnetism shall include the physics of the external and internal
parts of the terrestrial globe.” This lecture might, therefore, with
propriety cover the whole range of investigation in terrestrial and
cosmical magnetism. However, we must limit ourselves to those
particular lines of research in our subject in which Halley himself
was chiefly interested. It so happens that these are the very lines
also in which I have been given the opportunity to continue and
expand the work begun by him.

After Halley had made two attempts to establish a working
theory respecting the distribution of terrestrial magnetism and the
cause of its striking change with the lapse of years—the so-called
secular variation—he must have reached the conclusion that the
elusive problem of the earth’s magnetism would be more profitably
advanced by additional facts than by further speculation. That,
paraphrasing Seneca, to avoid making a false calculation of matters,
it were better to advise with nature rather than with opinion. Ac-
cordingly we find him setting out in October, 1698, in command
of a sailing ship, the Paramour Pink, and cruising in her under
orders from the British Government, back and forth, north and south,
in the Atlantic Ocean for two years, observing almost daily, some-
times several times in a day, the angle which the compass needle
makes with the true north and south line—the angle known to the
man of science as the magnetic declination, to the mariner and sur-
veyor as the “ variation of the compass.”

This is memorable as being the first scientific expedition sent out
by any country with the specific object of improving existing knowl-
edge regarding certain facts of the earth’s magnetism. Not until
somewhat over two centuries later did it occur again, that a sail-
ing ship traversed the oceans with the chief purpose of making
magnetic observations.’ In July, 1905, there sailed from the port of
San Francisco, Cal., a chartered sailing yacht, the Galilee, sent
under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, on
the sole mission to determine the magnetic elements at sea, for
the benefit of both the mariner and the man of science, as was also
the purpose of Halley’s voyages. Four years later, in 1909, a
specially built nonmagnetic vessel, likewise under the auspices of
the Carnegie Institution of Washington, left New York for St. Johns,
Newfoundland, and thence proceeded to Falmouth, along practically

1 Valuable magnetic data have been secured by various expeditions since Halley’s time,
but either the magnetic work was merely incidental or formed part of a general scientific
program, or was combined with some geographical object such as Arctic or Antarctic
exploration—the memorable Hrebus and Terror expeditions, for example,
ee

_—

See EEE OE EG

THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 197

the same track followed by Halley’s ship. Since then this vessel,
the Carnegie, has circumnavigated the globe and has repeatedly
intersected the course of the Paramour Pink in the Atlantic Ocean.

In view of the historic interest thus attaching to Halley’s magnetic
expedition, it will be well worth our while to use this as our starting
point or center, the fifth point in the Chinese compass. The instruc-
tions given Halley, as far as they pertained to his observational work,
were as follows:

Whereas his Majesty has been pleased to lend his Pink the Paramour for
your proceeding with her on an expedition to improve the knowledge of the
Longitude and variations of the Compasse, which shipp is now completely
Man’d, Stored, and Victualled, at his Majesty’s charge for the said Expedition ;
you are therefore hereby required and directed to proceed with her according
to the following instructions :—

You are to make the best of your way to the southward of the Equator, and
there to observe on the East Coast of South America, and the West Coast of
Africa, the variations of the Compasse with all the accuracy you can, as also
the true situation both of Longitude and Latitude of the Ports where you
arrive.

You are likewise to make the like observations at as many of the islands in
the seas between the aforesaid Coasts as you can (without too much deviation)
bring into your Course; and, if the season of the year permit, you are to stand
soe farr into the South till you discover the Coast of the Terra Incognita, sup-
posed to lie between Mongolan’s Straits and the Cape cf Good Hope, which
Coast you carefully lay down in its true position. In your return home you
are to visit the English West India Plantations or as many of them as con-
veniently you may, and in them make such observations as may contribute to
lay them down truely in their Geographicall Situation. And in all the Course
of your voyage you must be carefull to omit no opportunity of noting the varia-
tion of the Compasse, of which you are te keep a Register in your Journal.

Curiously enough, Halley, though a prominent member of the
Royal Society, never contributed a paper to it, nor did he publish
anything elsewhere cn these voyages of his, his observations, or
resulting conclusions. Not until 1775 were Halley’s journal and
observations published, and then by Alexander Dalrymple in his
“Collection of Voyages chiefly in the Southern Atlantick Ocean,”
from the manuscript in the possession of the Board of Longitude at
London. Halley appears to have contented himself with laying down
the results of his work on a chart entitled “A new and correct Sea
Chart of the Whole World, showing the Variations of the Compass
as they are found in the year 1700.” This chart is often briefly re-
ferred to under the title “ Tabula Nautica.” The first edition, pub-
lished probably in 1701, covered only the ocean—the Atlantic—
traversed by Halley himself; for the later edition, as the chart was
now to cover the greater part of the globe, he had to collect and
utilize observations made by others. No printed reference to the
early edition, either by Halley or by anyone else, prior to my dis-
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

covery of a copy in the British Museum in 1895 has thus far come
to light. Yet this particular chart, termed by me the “Atlantic
Chart,” to distinguish it from the later one—the “ World Chart ”—
is especially interesting, as it contains the routes followed by the
Paramour Pink. Airy, when he reproduced Halley’s “ World Chart ”
in the Greenwich observations of 1869, was seemingly not aware of
the “Atlantic Chart.”* (See pl. 2.)

The only description of Halley’s chart by himself, thus far found,
is that either attached to certain editions of the chart or contained
on an accompanying leaflet. This, however, is very brief, and was
chiefly intended to instruct mariners in the use of the chart. Halley
points out that in certain regions where the “ Curves ” run suitably
they may be used “to estimate the Longitude at Sea thereby.” To
his lines of equal “ magnetic variation” he gave no distinctive name,
simply referring to them as the‘ Curve Lines.” Thus he says: “ What
is here properly New is the Curve Lines drawn over the several Seas
to show the degrees of the Variation of the Magnetical Needle or Sea
Compass.” He does, however, use the term “ Line of No Variation.”
For some time these lines were referred to by others as the “ Halleyan
lines.” Hansteen a century later introduced the term “ isogonic lines,”
which is now generally adopted. According to Hellmann, there is
reason for believing that some attempts had been made before those
of Halley to give on a globe or map a graphical representation of the
direction in which a compass needle points. It is conceded, however,
that Halley’s was the first successful attempt; his “ variation chart ”
was the first magnetic chart based on sufficient observational data to
give it immediately both practical and scientific value.?

After the publication of his chart—the most important contribu-
tion to the observation material of terrestrial magnetism at the
time—Halley made no further attempt to establish a theory or to
improve on his early magnetic speculations. He appears finally to
have adopted the view so clearly formulated by Prof. Turner ?—
that the perception of the need for observations, the faith that something will
come of them, and the skill and energy to act on that faith—that these quali-
ties, all of which are possessed by any observer worthy the name, have at least

as much to do with the advance of science as the formulation of a theory, even
of a correct theory.

1Those interested in the history of the Halley charts may be referred to the various
articles by L. A. Bauer in Nature, May 238, 1895, p. 79, and in Terrestrial Magnetism,
January, 1896, and September, 1913; the last-named reference also contains a compilation
by J. P. Ault and W. F. Wallis of the magnetic results obtained on Halley’s expedition.

2Mountaine and Dodson, the authors of the second and revised edition (1744) of the
Halley Chart, and of the third (1756), published in connection with the latter a small
tract, “An account of the Methods used to describe Lines on Dr. Halley’s Chart of the
terraqueous Globe, showing the variation of the magnetic needle about the year 1756 in
all the known seas, London, 1758, 4°.”” This tract was again published in 1784.

3 Pres. Address, Sec. A, Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1911.
['ST6T-CO6T ‘WOISuTYSeA JO WOTNINSUT
dISoUIVD 9Y} AQ POYST[GBISo SUOT}RIS OTOUSVUL PULT MOYS SIO *O00'TIT JNOGB SBA STET OF GOT IO} SpOSsaA YOM Jo oSvoTrur [eyoT]
"SLGL-GOGL ‘SNV3O0O NVIGN] ONV ‘O1SIOVd ‘OILNVILY SHL NI « SIDSNUYVO,,
BSHL A@ GNV {8061-GO6L ‘NV30O OlsIOVd SHL NI «33NTVD,, SHL Ad GAMOTIO4 SMOVYL 3HL DNIMOHS dV

Ost a. ost ord}

Ie ps NE : eal

a ae Coaleae ee be

ueneg—'¢e 161 ‘Hodey ueluosyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Bauer. PEATE 5»

‘ Loe sft ga hey ER
LI ITER AS
wWitaa $i;
Th ae a a
LT LE
jE]

pee esa
2 al ay ae wale

ee)
Pole Austral

DUPERREY’S CHART OF THE MAGNETIC MERIDIANS FOR 1836.

[If the earth were uniformly magnetized, its magnetic poles would be located diametrically
opposite one another. However, because of the complexity of the earth’s magnetic condi-
tion, the chord connecting the two poles passes through the earth 750 miles distant from the
center. ;
THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 199

We find Halley embracing every occasion—

to recommend to all Masters of Ships and all others, Lovers of Natural Truths,
that they use their utmost Diligence to make, or procure to be made, Observa-
tions of these Variations in all parts of the World, and that they please to com-
municate them to the Royal Society in order to leave as compleat a History as
may be to those that are hereafter to compare all together and to compleat and
perfect this abstruse Theory.

Consulting the minutes of the Royal Society, it is found that
Halley communicated, from time to time, the results of magnetic
observations received from various expeditions, as aiso the values
of the magnetic declination observed by himself, at London, viz:

1701, May 7.—Mr. Halley tried the experiment of the Variation of the Needle
this day with the two needles he had with him in his late, Voyage; and by the
one the Variation was 7° 40’; by the other, 8° 00’ W.

1702, July 8.—Mr. Halley observed the Variation of the Needle, which was
found to be 83° Westward, or very near it.

1716, May 24.—Dr. Halley reported that he had drawn a Meridian Line on the
stone erected in the Society’s yard before the repository and that the Variation
was found at present to be full twelve degrees.

These observations of the magnetic declination of 1701, 1702, and
1716 are perhaps printed here for the first time and are not found
in any of the compilations of magnetic declinations at London pub-
lished thus far. Only Halley’s earlier observations, namely, those
of 1672 (2° 30’ W.), 1683 (4° 30’ W.), and of 1692 (6° 00’ W.), hav-
ing been given by Halley himself in his printed papers of 1683 and
1692, have become known to compilers.

CHANGE OF THE MAGNETIC DECLINATION IN THE ATLANTIC OCHKAN
SINCE HALLEY’S CHART.

In view of the fact that the two vessels—the Paramour Pink and
the Carnegie—both being primarily dependent for their motive
power upon the prevailing winds in the Atlantic Ocean, have fol-
lowed nearly identical courses, it will be a matter of no little inter-
est to compare the values of the magnetic declination given on Hal-
ley’s chart for 1700 with those obtained by the Carnegie in her
cruises in 1909-10. We find first that over the entire Atlantic, from
50° N. to 40° S., the north end of the compass needle in 1910 was to
the west of the compass direction of 1700 by amounts varying with
locality. Thus for various important ports the approximate change
was as follows: New York, 2°.9 W.; St. Johns, Newfoundland, 14°.6
W.; Falmouth, England, 10°.4 W.; Funchal, Madeira, 15°.6 W.;
Bermuda, 10°.5 W.; Porto Rico, 7°.6 W.; Para, Brazil, 14°.6 W.;
Rio de Janeiro, 20°.8 W.; Buenos Aires, 13°.0 W.; Cape Town,
16°.2 W.
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

If we follow a line passing through the points of maximum change
in the Atlantic Ocean, we find for the following points:

Values of the magnetic declination in 1700 and 1910.

A Secular
Latitude. Longitude. Tarstions Carnegie, change
lh ath : (1910-1700).

50°.4 N. 30°.4 W. 11°.3 W. 29°.5 W. 18°.2 W.
35°.9 N. 47°.0 W. 4°0 W. 227.1 Wie 18°.1 W.
21°.0 N. 30°.9 W. 0°.6 W. 19°.2 W. 18°.6 W.

S°ON. | 35°38 W. 2°.5 E. 16°.5 W. 19°.0 W.
40°.6 S. | 25°.2.W. 10°.7 E. 17°.5 W. 28°.2 W..

We see, accordingly, that the compass direction, in the course of
time, suffers large changes; for the region and time interval con-
sidered the changes vary from about 3° off New York to 28° in the
Atlantic Ocean about midway between Buenos Aires and Cape Town.
Even these amounts may not represent the total or maximum change
during the period in question.

Equally to be noted with these large changes with time is the
important fact that the amount of change is as dependent upon
locality as is the prevailing compass direction itself, which for over
four centuries has been known to be anything but “ true to the pole.”

We have thus had impressed upon us this important fact: Two
sailing vessels cruising in the Atlantic Ocean from port to port—
the one in 1700 and the other in 1910—were forced by the prevailing
winds to follow very closely identical courses. If, however, these
two vessels had been directed to follow certain definite magnetic
courses, and if we may suppose that they had such motive power
as to render them independent of the winds, then their respective
paths would have diverged considerably. For example, if the
Carnegie had set out from St. Johns, Newfoundland, to follow the
same magnetic courses as those of the Paramour Pink, stead of
coming to anchor in Falmouth Harbor (pl. 3),she would have madea
landfall somewhere on the northwest coast of Scotland. In brief,
while the sailing directions as governed by the winds over the
Atlantic Ocean are the same now as they were during Halley’s time,
the magnetic directions or bearings of the compass that a vessel
must follow to reach a given port have greatly altered. To quote
from the suggestive essay on terrestrial magnetism by John F. W.
Herschel : *

The configuration of our globe—the distribution of temperature in its in-
terior, the tides and currents of the ocean, the general course of winds and the
affections of climate—whatever slow changes may be induced in them by those
revolutions which geology traces—yet remain for thousands of years appreciably

1Bssays from the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, with addresses and other pieces,
by Sir John F. W. Herschel, London, 1857, pp. 69-70.

THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. | 201

constant. The monsoon, which favors or opposes the progress of the steamer
along the Red Sea, is the same which wafted to and fro the ships of Solomon.
Eternal snows occupy the same regions and whiten the same mountains, and
springs well forth at the same elevated temperature, from the same sources,
now as in the earliest recorded history. But the magnetic state of our globe
is one of swift and ceaseless change. A few years suffice to alter materially
and the lapse of half a century or a century to obliterate and completely re-
model the form and situation of those lines on its surface which geometers have
supposed to be drawn in order to give a general and graphical view of the
direction and intensity of the magnetic forces at any given spoch.

REGARDING LONGITUDE DETERMINATIONS AT SHA.

One important result of Halley’s voyage and of the publication
of his chart was the awakening of renewed interest in the improve-
ment of methods for determining the longitude at sea. Recalling
Halley’s instructions, we note that one of the objects of his expedi-
tion was “ to improve the knowledge of the Longitude.”

When the discovery was made that the magnetic declination varied
from place to place, the idea immediately occurred to Columbus, as
also to Cabot, that the longitude might be determined at sea by means
of this fact. Antonio Pigafetta, who accompanied Magellan on
his first voyage around the world in 1522, definitely proposed, in
his book on navigation, this method of longitude determination.
The line of no magnetic declination, which at that time passed
through the Azores, was regarded as the natural meridian from
which to count longitude. When later it was found, as was first re-
marked by J. de Acosta in his Historia Natural: Sevilla, 1590, that
there were four such lines, it was again thought that these quadrantal
divisions could be utilized for reckoning longitudes. In 1674 Charles
II appointed a commission to examine into the pretensions of a
scheme devised by Henry Bond for ascertaining the longitude by
the “variation of the compass.”

Halley’s chart, however, definitely showed that it would be, in
general, futile to attempt to determine the longitude by means of
an element so variable and so irregular in its distribution as is the
magnetic declination. Nevertheless, the hope that some magnetic
phenomenon might yet serve to aid in the solution of this problem
did not die immediately.

In 1721 we find William Whiston, Newton’s successor at Cam-
bridge, installing dip circles on a number of vessels, with instructions
to observe diligently the magnetic dip in order to determine whether
by means of this element the longitude could be better found at
sea than by the magnetic declination; he likewise hoped thus to
determine the latitude at sea.

It is also interesting here to note that when Dr. Johnson was

-at Oxford, he gave in 1756 to the Bodleian Library a thin quarto

of 21 pages, entitled “An Account of an Attempt to ascertain the
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Longitude at Sea by an exact Theory of the Variation of the Mag-
netical Needle, etc.,” by Zachariah Williams, published at London
in 1755; Johnson entered it with his own hand in the library cata-
logue. Boswell relates that Johnson himself wrote the English
version for Williams, and, in order to make it more extensively
known, also had an Italian translation prepared by his friend,
Signor Baretti.

For fully three centuries the idea that the longitude could be de-
termined at sea with the aid of some magnetic element, though proved
to be fallacious, served a most useful purpose by furnishing the nec-
essary incentive to observe the magnetic elements. This is a striking
illustration of the soundness of the position taken by Maxwell when
he said: “TI never try to dissuade a man from trying an experiment;
if he does not find what he wants, he may find out something else.”
It was indeed true of these magnetic longitude seekers that they
failed in their purpose, but they contributed data of inestimable
value to the advancement of our knowledge of the earth’s magnetism.

Before leaving this subject it might be said that Halley himself
proposed an astronomical method for solving the longitude problem,
and, with Newton, he was responsible for the act of 1714 offering a
reward to any person who should devise a satisfactory method for
the determination of the longitude at sea. He also improved some
of the instruments used in navigation.

Another result of Halley’s various voyages deserves mention here,
though not immediately concerned with the subject of our lecture,
namely, his theory of the cause of the trade winds. On certain
editions of his Variation Chart there was given, in addition to the
lines of equal magnetic variation, a “ View of the Generall and Coast-
ing Trade Winds and Monsoons or Shifting Trade Winds.”

COMPLEXITY OF THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM.

Reference has already been made to Halley’s attempts, before his
magnetic expedition, to establish a theory respecting the phenomena
of the compass needle. Thus in 1683 he published in the Philo-
sophical Transactions of the Royal Society “A Theory of the Varia-
tion of the Magnetical Compass,” and in 1692, in the same Transac-
tions, “An Account of the Cause of the Change of the Variation of
the Magnetic Needle.”

In these papers Halley rejected the hypothesis which had been
accepted up to that time, and on the basis of which elaborate tables
of the magnetic declination had been constructed by previous investi-
gators, namely, that the directions assumed by a compass needle in
various parts of the earth could be accounted for by a simple magnet-

1See Miscellanea Curiosa, yol. I, pp. 61-80, and pl. 2,
THE EARTH ’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 208

ization parallel to a diameter so that the magnetic poles would be
diametrically opposite to each other. While the conclusion reached
by him that “ the whole Globe of the Earth is one great Magnet hav-
ing four Magnetical Poles, or Points of Attraction, near each Pole of
the Equator Two,” has, in a certain sense, been found to be incorrect
nevertheless, this view appears to have been the first definite recog-
nition of the heterogeneity or complexity of the earth’s magnetic
condition.

The increased knowledge gained from magnetic surveys since
Halley’s time has taught that the more carefully a country has been
explored, i. e., the nearer together the points at which the magnetic
elements have been determined, the greater is the number of irregu-
larities usually shown by the so-called isomagnetic lines; indeed, re-
gions have been found where no system of lines can adequately and
correctly represent the prevailing magnetic conditions. We have
learned that the regularities in the distribution of the earth’s mag-
netism, far from being normal features, as was once thought, are,
instead, the abnormal ones, and that the irregularities are the normal
and to-be-expected phenomena.

The magnetic forces, as measured at any given point on the earth’s
surface, appear, according to various analyses, to be the resultant
effects of (1) a general or terrestrial magnetic field due to the general
magnetic condition of the whole earth; (2) a general terrestrial dis-
turbing cause which distorts at the place of observation the general
magnetic condition of the earth; (3) a disturbing effect continental
in extent; (4) a regional disturbance effect due to low-lying mag-
netized substances; and (5) a local disturbance due to the magnetized
masses in the immediate vicinity.

No formula has as yet been established which will represent the
observational facts within the error of observation, in fact not even
with sufficient accuracy for the practical purposes of the surveyor
and of the mariner.

THE BHARTH’S MAGNETIC POLES.

We have noticed that Halley, as the result of his study of the
observations of the magnetic declination, as far as they had become
known up to 1683, reached the conclusion that the earth had “ four
Magnetical Poles or Points of Attraction.” Some confusion has
arisen as to the precise meaning which Halley attached to his “ poles.”
Owing to his alternative term—* Points of Attraction ”—certain
eminent writers have sought to identify Halley’s supposed four mag-
netic poles with the four foci of maximum total magnetic force,
whose existence appeared to be indicated when, near the middle

_ of the nineteenth century, it became possible to construct a chart of
_ the lines of equal magnetic force. By this incorrect inference these
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

authors have unwittingly credited Halley with a discovery which,
in the absence at the time of any observation whatsoever respecting
the strength of the earth’s magnetic force, he could not possibly
have made. The real merit and purport of Halley’s deduction has
thereby been obscured. The observation material at Halley’s dis-
posal, before he himself enriched the material during his voyages,
consisted of some miscellaneous observations of the compass direction
and a few values of the magnetic dip. As has been said, there were
no observations of the magnetic force, for the art of measuring this
element had not yet become known.

Scrutinizing carefully his scanty observation material, Halley no-
ticed that the direction of the compass needle did not change from
place to place in the simple way it would if, for example, the earth
had two magnetic poles diametrically opposite each other. In the
latter case the needle would set itself tangent to the great circle pass-
ing through the magnetic poles and the place of observation. If,
then, the compass direction were known at two places sufficiently
far apart the points of intersection of the two great circles drawn
respectively tangent to these compass directions would be the two
diametrically opposite magnetic poles. It is such points of inter-
section—“ points of convergence,” as Hansteen later called them—
which Halley had in mind as “ Magnetic Poles.” He was the first
to perceive clearly the fact—abundantly verified since—that the
various points of convergence as found from successive pairs of
compass directions, in the manner just described, do not fall together
as they should on the basis of a simple or regular magnetization of
the earth. However, it appeared to Halley, and the same conclusion
was reached over 100 years later by the illustrious Norwegian mag-
netician, Hansteen, that the several points of convergence grouped
themselves in a general way about two main centers—

near each Pole of the Equator Two, and that in those parts of the World which
lie near adjacent to any one of those Magnetical Poles the Needle is govern’d
thereby, the nearest Pole being always predominant over the more remote.

Tt will not be well to lay greater stress upon this deduction nor
upon those in his 1692 paper, where he seeks to account for the exist-
ence of his four “‘ Magnetic Poles ” and for the secular variation than
to say that Halley drew the best possible conclusions the material at
his disposal permitted. In fact, his conclusions were not materially
improved upon until a century and a half later, when a much more
complete knowledge of the distribution of the earth’s magnetism
had been gained and when the various mathematical attempts which
had been made to compute the magnetic elements on the basis of
more or less intricate hypotheses as to the earth’s magnetization,
had been found to be inadequate. Some later investigators, indeed,
[SI6T-CO6T ‘WOISUTYSBAA JO WOINISUT
arSouIND oy Sq PAYST[GBISe SUOT}BIS OTJOUSVUT PUT MOYSS}JOM OOO'TIT JNOGB SBA ETET O} GOGT 1OJ SfossoA GOI Jo osBaTTUr [e190]
"SLEL-GOGL ‘SNV30O NVIGN| ONY ‘OlSIOWd ‘OILNVILY SHL NI « 3IDSNUYVO,,
. SHL Ad ANY ‘8061-GOG6BL ‘NV30O O1sIOVd SHL NI «3aTIV9,, AHL AP GSMOTIO4 SHOWHL SHL ONIMOHS dV

{ ! : A . z 206 __.o
\oz a | is | ese

ee J. .--p----—} —--—} yf pt 8d

zt Ost ost Ost oz! |

“p ALVId

uaneg—'¢e 161 ‘Hodey urjuosyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Bauer. PLATE 5.

DUPERREY’S CHART OF THE MAGNETIC MERIDIANS FOR 1836.

[If the earth were uniformly magnetized, its magnetic poles would be located diametrically
opposite one another. However, because of the complexity of the earth’s magnetic condi-
tion, the chord connecting the two poles passes through the earth 750 miles distant from the
center. |
THE EARTH ’S MAGNETISM—-BAUER. 205

might have spared themselves considerable pains had they previously
familiarized themselves more thoroughly with Halley’s work.

When we to-day speak of the earth’s magnetic poles, it is generally
recognized that those points on the earth’s surface are meant where
the dipping needle stands precisely vertical and where the magnetic
dip is accordingly 90°. This definition permits, with the aid of the
dipping needle, of a precise determination of the magnetic poles,
though, of course, it must not be understood that these poles are
mathematical points; the area over which the dip may be found to
be 90°, within the instrumental means of determination, may, in fact,
be several miles square. A more or less extensive magnetic survey of
the region round about would be required to eliminate the possibility
of disturbing influences owing to local deposits of iron ore. At these
“ Poles,” since the magnetic force exerted by the earth is all up and
down, with no side component, a compass needle would have no
directive force acting upon it. Some distance before reaching the
magnetic pole it would become sluggish, and directly over the pole
itself it would be of no more use than a brass needle to indicate any
definite direction. (For chart of the magnetic meridian, see pl. 5.)

Excluding for the present the purely “ local magnetic poles ” (pl. 8,
fig. 2) caused by extraordinary local deposits of attracting masses, all
observations to date show that there are but two such points (or areas)
where the dipping needle stands vertical, one in the Northern Hemis-
phere, located by Capt. James Clark Ross in June, 1831, in latitude
70°.1 north and longitude 96°.8 west (pl. 6, fig. 2),t and the other in
the Southern Hemisphere, lying, according to the observations of the
recent Antarctic expeditions, about in latitude 72°.7 south and longi-
tude 156° east. The magnetic poles, therefore, are, on the average,
about 1,200 miles from the geographical poles. Owing to the asym-
metrical distribution of the earth’s magnetism, the magnetic poles are
not diametrically opposite each other, even if the positions given
applied to the same year; in fact, the perpendicular distance from the
earth’s center to the chord connecting the magnetic poles is about
750 miles.

Let us suppose, now, that one explorer starts out from Oxford,
where the compass points at present about 16° west, and follows
always the direction shown by the north end of the compass needle,
whereas another starts north from Washington, where the compass
bears about 5° west, and follows likewise the direction of the compass
needle. The paths thus traced out by them are the so-called “ mag-
netic meridians,” which, owing to the irregular way in which the
earth is magnetized, would not be straight lines or arcs of great

1During Capt. Amundsen’s completion of the Northwest Passage, 1903-1907, he also
made observations with a view to locating the north magnetic pole, but the resulting
position has not yet been published,
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

circles, but more or less devious lines. Could these magnetic merid-
ians be followed into the Arctic regions, they would be found to
intersect at the north magnetic pole.

Owing to the irregular distribution of the earth’s magnetism, the
points of greatest intensity of the total magnetic force depart widely
in their locations from the magnetic poles. Thus there are in the
Northern Hemisphere two distinct maxima of total magnetic force,
one in the northeast of Siberia and the other in Canada to the south-
west, approximately, of Hudson Bay. A magnetic survey of the
latter region is being made this summer by an expedition sent out
by the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism.

DO THE MAGNETIC POLES MOVE?

Possibly the most frequent question asked of those engaged in
magnetic work is: “ Do the magnetic poles move with the lapse of
years, and if so, why?” Unfortunately, as has already been shown,
there are no direct observations as yet on which to base a definite
statement. But it would be singular, indeed, if these points remained
fixed and were not affected by fluctuations such as are now known
from three centuries of observations to exist in every one of the
earth’s magnetic phenomena. It is quite possible, in fact, that the
magnetic poles pass through certain motions even in the course of
a day or suffer displacements during magnetic storms.

The diagram (pl. 6, fig. 1) shows the changes in the direction of the
compass (magnetic declination), as well as in the direction of the dip
needle (magnetic inclination), as far as known, for London, Balti-
more, and Boston. Imagine yourself, if you will, standing at the
center of a great magnetized needle so suspended as to be free to
assume the direction actually taken by the lines of magnetic force at
the place of observation, and let us suppose you are looking toward
the north-pointing end of the needle. Could you gaze long enough,
you would see a curve described in space by the observed end of the
needle. This curve would lie on a sphere whose radius is the half-
length of the suspended needle and for graphical representation we
may take a central projection of it on a plane tangent to the sphere
at about the middle point of the curve. The curves here given were
constructed by me with the aid of the accumulated observations up to
about 1895; the course followed by the needle since 1895 will be dis-
cussed later. (PI. 6, fig. 1.)

A number of intefesting and instructive facts follow from these
curves; time will permit us to give our attention only to the chief
ones. It is seen that at London, for example, the compass reached
its maximum easterly direction of about 11° in the year 1580, hence
during the middle of Queen Elizabeth’s reign; thereafter the easterly

te
PLATE 6.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Bauer.

By
hh

L
A]

if
A
)

Hie
S,
701 | |

ra
Fil
a

SS

s
<

5
‘s
:
<

a

<
7

Fic. 1.—CURVES SHOWING THE SECULAR CHANGE IN THE MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND

AND BALTIMORE.

BOSTON,

’

IN THE DIP AT LONDON

nded magnetic needle of about 50

centimeters, or nearly 20 inches.]

sed length of freely suspe

[Drawn for suppo

STATUTE MILES

© 192030 40 50

KILOMETRES

10 20 90 60

Fic. 2.—MAp oF REGION ABOUT THE MAGNETIC NORTH POLE, INDICATING HOW THE

COMPASS POINTS IN THE VICINITY.

[The earth’s magnetic poles are, on the average, 1,200 miles distant from the geographical poles. ]
‘TIGL OL OOGL ‘NV300 OLLNVILY
HLYON SHL JO (NOILYNITO3Q OILSNOVI] ON JO 3NI7) ANI OINODY SHL JO NOILISOg SHL NI SONVHO YvINOIS

FuctM 06

wel
2 gis oan
yi

al

of

ey) '@IGl PY? OOS] TV 42129
€ 2HUONY YMON 24) JO A
2UurT smoby ay yo uoinsod ay) ur vhuoy 7 1wynI22¢

|

yond) qvys Te UTLMUTIeP 7 St
AR) Yr UO PUD -M St 21217) aya UO epr9
mp wvapur guy Nuoly vif7 jo uwomsod
ysoo YM -pormjd 7 mM 842177) SUL
TON

02 1c OF 0S 09 06 On BaOT M 0G

‘LZ ALV1d Janeg—'¢ 16] ‘Hodey ueiuosy}iws
THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 207

direction began to diminish until] about 1658, the year of Cromwell’s
death, when the needle bore due north and then swung over to the
west, continuing to do so until it reached a maximum westerly direc-
tion of somewhat over 24° in about 1812. Hence in the interval of
about 232 years (1580-1812) the compass direction changed at Lon-
don from 11° E. to 24° W., or 35°. At the present time it points
about 154° W., or nearly 9° less than in 1812, and a most interesting
question doubtless immediately occurs to all of us: Will the freely
suspended magnetic needle ever return precisely to a direction taken
at some previous time, or is there any definite cycle of changes which
will repeat itself from time to time?

Here again no wholly definite answer can be given, primarily
because of the fact, as will be seen from the diagram, that, if there
be such a cycle, it embraces many more years than are covered thus
far by the interval of observation. For some European stations,
e. g., Paris and Rome, the observation interval is somewhat longer
than at London, but still not long enough for definite prediction as
to the future course of the magnetic needle.

The diagram shows also that in the United States the changes
in the compass direction, as far back as they are known, have not
been as great as those during the same time at London. Thus, at
Baltimore, for example, the compass appears to have reached a
maximum westerly amount of about 6.1° near 1670, and a minimum
of 2° in 1802, after which, instead of passing through a zero value as
at London in 1658, and swinging to the eastward, it turned back and
began to increase its westerly direction until at the present time the
amount is about 64°. Thus, at this station the compass direction
passed from a maximum to a minimum in about 132 years and the
total change was but 54°, or only one-sixth to one-seventh of that
at London.

In brief, the facts revealed by the known compass changes in
my country can not be brought in harmony with those witnessed in
your country, unless we assume that the length of the cycle of
complete change is many times longer than merely twice the period
between 2 maximum and a minimum bearing of the compass.. There
are evidences futhermore, into which we can not go here, to indicate
that the cycle of change at one station is not of the type which
would result were we to close the apparently nearly completed
curve at London by uniting the two ends in some simple manner.
On the contrary, the evidences point to cycles within cycles and to

_ the probability that the secular variation curve, instead of being a
single closed curve, may consist of smaller loops within a larger one,
 etc.; it is even questionable whether there ever will be exact closure
of the curve.

208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

There is at present another matter of no little interest with regard
to England which should be pointed out here. It will be seen from
the London curve that the dip of the needle below the horizon
reached its maximum amount of 74.4° in about 1688. At this time
the compass changed its direction the maximum amount of 13’ per
year. The curve would seem to indicate that the time of a minimum
dip is now approaching; this phase has already occurred at Pawlowsk
and seems to be now taking place at Potsdam and is traveling west-
ward. Whether it will reach London and when can not be answered
definitely. However, it is a matter of no little interest, in this
connection, to observe that the annual amount of change in the
compass direction has in recent years received a remarkable accelera-
tion in this part of the earth. Thus, as is shown by the magnetic
observatory records, it has almost steadily risen from 4’ per year in
1902 to about 9’ per year in 1912. Whether this portends an early
approach of the phase of minimum dip at London is one of the many
interesting questions continually arising respecting the perplexing
phenomena of the earth’s magnetism. The course of the needle
since 1890 has been about as shown by the arrow; thus in 1910 the
magnetic declination was approximately 15.9° W. and the dip was
66.9°.

One thing more. Note that for each of the three curves as far
as drawn, the motion of the freely suspended magnetic needle has
been clockwise, i. e., the same as the motion of the hands of a watch.
This fact, as shown by the curves in other parts of the world, con-
structed with the aid of the available observations, appears to hold
generally in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, except
for certain retrograde motions which thus far have not been of the
same extent as the direct one, although, of course, it is not affirmed
that they may not become so later. Such retrograde motions are
at present being experienced in certain parts of the United States.
Thus, for example, the compass pointed in 1910 6.25° W. at Balti-
more and 13.35° W. at Boston, and in the same year the magnetic
dip was 70.9° at Baltimore and 73.1° at Boston. If we plot these
values on the diagram, we shall find that the curves for Boston and
Baltimore, instead of progressing in the direction of the arrows,
passed through a secondary crest about 1895 and then bent over to
the left; how long this will continue can not be foretold.

The question as to the cause of the remarkable changes from time
to time in the earth’s magnetic condition, as indicated by these curves,
has been a fruitful source of speculation since 1634, when Gellibrand
definitely proved the fact that the compass direction varies from
year to year. Some of the best minds have been engaged with the
discovery of the cause, but the riddle is still unsolved. Hence as
regards the actual motions of the earth’s magnetic poles and the
THE EARTH’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 209

precise cause or causes, we may still say with Halley that these are
“Secrets as yet utterly unknown to Mankind, and are reserv’d for
the Industry of future Ages.”

A mathematical analysis of the accumulated material shows that,
in order to find an adequate explanation of the secular variation of
the earth’s magnetism, we must reckon with systems of magnetic
or electric forces having their seats both below and above the earth’s
crust. There would also appear to be some evidence that in addi-
tion to a motion of the magnetic poles or magnetic axes of the earth,
we may also have to take into account a possible diminution in the
earth’s magnetic moment or intensity of magnetization.

THE ORIGIN OF THH EARTH’S MAGNETISM.

Before concluding this lecture, we ought, perhaps, in the few min-
utes remaining, to say something regarding the status of the ever-
recurring question as to the origin of the earth’s magnetism. Assum-
ing that the magnetism of our planet is uniformly distributed
throughout its mass, it is found that the average intensity of mag-
netization is only about one ten-thousandth of very highly magnet-
ized hard steel. Prof. Fleming, in his very suggestive popular
lecture on the “ Earth, a great magnet,” given at the meeting in 1896
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, made
this statement :

Taken as a whole, the earth is a feeble magnet. If our globe were wholly
made of steel and magnetized as highly as an ordinary steel-bar magnet, the
magnetic forces at its surface would be at least 100 times as great as they are
now. That might be an advantage or a very great disadvantage.

If, however, we could penetrate the earth’s crust we would find
at a distance of only about 12 miles a temperature so great that,
according to present laboratory facts, all magnetization would neces-
sarily cease. Hence, if the earth’s magnetic field arises from an ac-
tual magnetization of the substances composing the earth, these sub-
stances must be confined within a comparatively thin shell. But
the question immediately arises: Is this argument correct? May it
not be that just as the point of liquefaction is raised by increased
pressure, so is also the critical temperature of magnetization. It
may thus occur that the effect due to increase of pressure with depth
of penetration more than balances that due to increased temperature.
There are at present no wholly decisive experiments which may be
drawn upon to answer this query.

The hypothesis that the earth may be an electromagnet also meets
with difficulties when we attempt to account for the origin, direction,
and maintenance of the required currents. In spite of the accumu-
lated facts of over three centuries, we are still unable to say definitely
to what the earth’s magnetic field is really due. Perhaps we may

44863°—sm 191314
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

not be able to solve the riddle until the physicist answers for us the
questions: What is a magnet? What is magnetism in general?

In the Devil’s Dictionary by Ambrose Bierce, published in 1911,
the following definitions are given: “ Magnet, n.—Something acted
upon by magnetism. Magnetism, n—Something acting upon a
magnet.” In explanation the author cynically remarks: “The two
definitions immediately foregoing are condensed from the works of
1,000 eminent scientists, who have illuminated the subject with a
ereat white light, to the inexpressible advancement of human
knowledge.” 4

A line of thought first suggested by Schuster and Lord Kelvin,
that every large rotating mass, due to an as yet undiscovered cause,
may be a magnet, should be considered in conclusion, though we
may do so but briefly. If this be true, then magnetism is not confined
to our planet alone, but all celestial bodies are surrounded by mag-
netic fields. Thus far no laboratory experiment, possibly owing to
lack of required sensitiveness in the measuring instruments, has
detected any magnetic field arising solely from rotation. Schuster
and Swann have recently discussed the character and magnitude of
the effects from the possible causes which may operate if the earth’s
magnetic field be related in some manner to its rotation.

In 1900-1903 Sutherland propounded a theory for the origin of
the earth’s magnetism, which, briefly stated, is this: We know that
electricity is an essential constituent of matter, and that in every
atom, if it be electrically neutral, there are equal amounts of nega-
tive and positive electricity. So with the whole earth. Since it is
almost electrically neutral, suppose that the total negative charge,
while practically equal to the total positive one, occupies a slightly
different volume from that of the positive charge, or, in brief, that
the volume densities of the two body charges differ slightly, then,
because of the rotation of the electric charges with the earth, a mag-
netic field arises. I have recently repeated Sutherland’s calcula-
tions and, as I had previously found that the earth’s intensity of
magnetization increased systematically toward the Equator, I have
included a term to represent such a possible effect. The computa-
tions show that to satisfy the known phenomena of the earth’s mag-
netism, the volume density of the negative charge must be smaller

1 These definitions and accompanying remarks may have had their origin in the follow-
ing interesting anecdote told in the American Review of Reviews for August, 1909, of the
late Prof. Simon Newcomb, by Mr. A. E. Bostwick, associate editor of the Standard Dic-
tionary. Of the definitions in physical science for this dictionary Newcomb had general
oversight, and on one occasion he took exception to the definitions framed for the words
“magnet”? and ‘‘ magnetism” as based, in the absence of authoritative knowledge of
the causes, simply upon the properties manifested by the things. After writing and
erasing alternately for an hour or more, he finally confessed, however, with a hearty
laugh, that he himself could offer nothing better than the following pair of definitions:
“Magnet, a body capaple of exerting magnetic force; and magnetic force, the force
exerted by a magnet.”
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Bauer. PLATE 8,

Fic. 1.—THE AURORA BOREALIS AS FIRST SUCCESSFULLY PHOTOGRAPHED BY
PROF. CARL STOERMER.

[Halley was the first to suggest a connection between polar lights and the earth’s
magnetism. }

Fia. 2.—A LocAL MAGNETIC NORTH POLE AT TREADWELL POINT, NEAR
JUNEAU, ALASKA, AS DISCLOSED By L. A. BAUER’S OBSERVATIONS IN
1900 AND 1907.

{In the center of the tent the dipping needle stood vertical, with the north end dow ni,
and the compass reversed its direction when carried from one side of the tent to
the other. Ships’ compasses, a mile away, in Gastineaux Channel, are deflected
about 11°. ]
‘O 'd ‘NOLONIHSVAA 4O NOILNLILSN| FISSNYVO ‘WSILANSVI| IVINLSSYYS] JO LNSWLYvd3ag ‘SNIGTING HOYVASSY

ill it ill
mF nn Wi.

i, i. = I Tat 4

‘
' IH!
5

*6 ALV1d yaneg—'e16| ‘Hoday ueiuosy}iWis
THE EARTH ’S MAGNETISM—BAUER. 211

than that of the positive, or, in other words, the earth’s total negative
charge must be distributed through the larger sphere, and, if that be
the whole earth itself, then for the chief term involved in the mag-
netic potential, the surface of the sphere’ containing the positive
charge need be, on the average, only 0.410-° cms., i. e. four-tenths
of the radius of an ordinary molecule, below that of the earth’s
surface to give a magnetic field of the required strength. Taking the
average atomic weight of the earth’s substance in round numbers as
50, the mean volume density of either charge would be about 3.310”
electrostatic units.

At present there is little hope that a magnetic field, caused just as
supposed, can be detected in the laboratory. For a sphere of 15 centi-
meters radius, rotating 100 times a second, the magnetic intensity at
the poles would be but one hundred-millionth part (10-*) of that of
the earth. We thus see that the quantities involved in the solution
of one of the great problems confronting the student of the earth’s
physics—the origin of the earth’s magnetic field—may be of such a
minute order as to be beyond the ken at present of the laboratory
experimentalist. Perhaps the effects become appreciable in the case
of the earth because of the fortunate fact that it is a body of suffi-
cient size and angular velocity.

On the other hand, the geophysicist is at a great disadvantage in
that he is unable to bring his earth-magnet into the laboratory and
to experiment upon it—to reverse the direction of rotation, for
example, and see what would happen! Fortunately for him, how-
ever, nature comes to his relief somewhat and performs experiments
for him on his great magnet on a world-wide scale, by producing
in an incredibly short time manifold and at times startling varia-
tions and fluctuations in the apparently fixed magnetization of the
earth. Thus, on September 25, 1909, there occurred the most re-
markable magnetic storm on record, during which, within a few
minutes, the earth’s magnetic movement, or intensity of magnetiza-
tion, was altered by about one-twentieth to one-thirtieth part. The
earth’s magnetic condition was below par for fully three months
thereafter. As this severe storm was accompanied by a brilliant dis-
play of polar lights, this is the most appropriate place to recall that
Halley made the first suggestion of a connection between the aurora
borealis and the earth’s magnetism. (PI. 8, fig. 1.)

It is firmly believed that a long step forward will have been taken
toward the discovery of the origin of the earth’s magnetism when
once we have found out what causes it to vary in the surprising
manner shown by the secular or long-period changes, by the magnetic
storms, and the numerous other fluctuations, such as the diurnal
variation, for example. The keynote of modern investigation in
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

terrestrial magnetism, as in the biological sciences, must surely be
the study of the variations and mutations!

Ts it not probable that the very features of the earth’s magnetism
regarded at one time as defects—the “constant inconstancies,” as
an early writer quaintly put it—will instead become sources of help
and inspiration from totally different points of view or in some
entirely different line of thought? Who knows of what import the
riddles of the earth’s magnetism, characterized by eminent physicists
as being, next to gravity, the most puzzling of natural forces, may
be, not simply to the magnetician alone, but to all interested in the
steady progress of the physical sciences? Thus Schuster suggests
that “ atmospheric electricity and terrestrial magnetism, treated too
long as isolated phenomena, may give us hints on hitherto unknown
properties of matter.” “The field of investigation into which we
are introduced,” says Maxwell, “by the study of terrestrial mag-
netism, is as profound as it is extensive.” And, says Sabine, one of
England’s greatest and most enthusiastic magneticians, “ Viewed
in itself and its various relations, the magnetism of the earth can
not be counted less than one of the most important branches of the
physical history of the planet we inhabit.”
MODERN IDEAS ON THE END OF THE WORLD.'!

By Gustav JAUMANN,

Professor of Physics at the Technical High School at Briinn.

We are totally ignorant of the beginning of the world. During
the last century the hypothesis of Laplace and Kant that the planets
proceeded from the sun and were cast off by the rotation of it enjoyed
wide credence. According to this theory our earth was once ina state
of glowing liquid. Judging by the increase in temperature in the
deep strata, it is covered at the present time by the solidified crust,
relatively very thin, on which we live. Such a conception has ren-
dered plausible a belief in the deluge and in the idea of a final day
of judgment when the world will be devoured by flames.

Geology, indeed, records horrible catastrophes: the highest moun-
tains were formed by a single short earthquake of tremendous vio-
lence, the result of upheavals of granitic magma. By enormous
volcanic eruptions erratic blocks were carried thousands of kilometers.
In particular the whole of Asia suffered the invasion of the Indian
Ocean, which was precipitated on the continent with inconceivable
violence, sufficient to carry the rhinoceros and the mammoth, which
are considered Indian animals, as far as the frozen fields of Siberia.
Cuvier affirmed not only that the world would be destroyed some
thousands of years hence, but that it has already many times under-
gone like cataclysms, each geologic formation constituting the burial
place of a creation entirely separate in origin. According to this
hypothesis, the termination of each geologic period has been marked
by a complete ending of the world, and the opening of each succeed-
ing period by a special creative act giving birth to a new fauna
more perfect but equally incapable of evolution. By the side of
the brilliant Cuvier lived, obscure and unknown, the much greater

Lamarck. It is he who recognized the continuous evolution of the
_ faunas in accordance with an immanent law, or at least in conse-
| quence of the capacity which organisms possess of perfecting them-

1 Inaugural address of the rector of the Imperial German Franz-Joseph Technical High
School at Briinn, delivered on October 26, 1912. Translated from the German, pub-
lished by the technical high school, by permission of Prof. Jaumann.,

213

914 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

selves by assiduous exercise and by communicating in part to their
descendants the improvements thus acquired. It is this way of
thinking which, after a turn toward Darwinism,' has finally estab-
lished itself. Now, to permit such an evolution of the organic
world, from the beginnings to its actual perfection, requires a consid-
erable duration of cosmic quiet. Geologic investigations since Lyell
have indeed demonstrated that the passage from each geologic forma-
tion to that succeeding it is made gradually and without interruption.
The inundations and volcanic catastrophes which are produced at all
times, far from destroying worlds, have never been more than purely
local. Volcanic eruptions are not the index of a fluid and incan-
descent nucleus, for the accumulations of liquid lava have little
extension, so that even neighboring volcanoes, such as Vuleano and
Stromboli, have no relation to each other. One can even affirm that
the fiuid incandescent nucleus of the earth does not exist. Recent
physical observations, especially those relative to the transmission
of the transverse seismical waves through the interior of the earth
and to the period of migration of the terrestrial axis, admit of the
conclusion that the earth in its entire mass is as elastic as a steel of
good quality.

But now we must observe the very disquieting previsions of the
exact sciences. These we must notice particularly, for physics and
astronomy have exact natural laws, and in this way may be predicted
in all probability the most distant consequences, for the laws which
are concerned here, that of gravitation and that of the conservation
of energy, are among the ones most firmly established.

The real achievement of Newton was to show that the law of
gravitation had a more exact application than the laws of Kepler
according to which the planets move along their elliptical orbits.?, In
reality the planets do not describe strictly elliptical trajectories.
The form and the position of these trajectories change constantly,
although with extreme slowness. The law of Newton affords an
explanation of the greater part of these divergences, if the reciprocal

1In this connection we designate as Darwinism only that part of Darwin’s teachings
which originated with himself; not the evolution theory, which is due for the most part
to Lamarck, but rather the theory of selection, according to which there could not be
any evolution of the organic world without the influence of selection in connection with
the struggle for existence.

2The law of gravitation itself was not originated by Newton, but by Kepler, whose
ideas exerted a powerful influence on Hooke, Halley, and Fermat. It was first formu-
lated mathematically by Wren, whose physical work was otherwise unimportant. Newton
only contributed proof of its correctness.

Kepler originated the fundamental and extraordinary new conception “ Virtutem, quae
planetas movet, residere in corpore Solis’’ (‘‘'The power which moves the planets resides
in the mass of the sun’’—heading of ch. 33 in Kepler’s “Astronomia Nova.’’ See “ Jo.
Kepleri Opera Omnia,” Frisch’s edition, vol. 8, p. 300). He also originated the idea of
the field of gravitation, in which the force diminishes with the distance from the sun,
and the idea of universal gravitation. Had Galileo’s dynamics controlled Kepler as it did
Huyghens, he would not have needed half his genius to have anticipated Newton’s con-
tributions to the subject.
MODERN IDEAS ON THE END OF THE WORLD—-JAUMANN. 215

attractions of the planets are taken into consideration. Taking
these deviations into consideration, it is possible at present to calcu-
late to within a few seconds the positions of the sun, the moon, and
the planets a hundred years in advance. But to determine at a dis-
tance of millions of years the end of the Newtonian world enormous
mathematical difficulties must be overcome; indeed, it is a matter
concerning the problem of the stability of the planetary system and
of calculating whether the disturbing influences, weak but incessant,
which the planets exercise upon each other will nearly counteract
each other in time or will end by entailing the destruction of the
planetary system.

Eminent scholars have always taxed themselves with resolving this
fundamental problem relative to the stability of the world. Laplace
and Lagrange showed, by means of an approximate calculation, that
the planetary system of Newton appeared to be stable. Poisson
demonstrated that by further refining the calculation later epochs
could be surveyed, in which greater and greater fiuctuations in the
form of the planetary orbits were present. Finally Poincaré proved
that by carrying the calculation to its limit, a future time was dis-
closed in which the planets would experience unlimited, progressive,
so-called secular disturbances and, finally, some of them would fall
into the sun, and others lose themselves in the cold of cosmic space.
Thus, the planetary system of Newton has no stability, no internal
constancy. But the foregoing calculations were made on much too
favorable a basis. Cosmic space can not be empty, as Newton held.
Since it can transmit light, it must be filled with a medium, ex-
tremely tenuous and cold, called cosmic ether. The extreme vacuum
obtained in the laboratory, cooled to —170° C., presents a con-
siderable viscosity, which is only ten times inferior to that of the
normal air.t_ Consequently, the cosmic ether must oppose to the
movement of the planets a very appreciable frictional resistance.
They must continually lose energy of motion; in addition to which,
the attractive action of the sun becoming more and more considerable,
the planets should describe orbits more and more narrow and should
end, in some millions of years, by precipitating themselves into it.
Thus, again, we have the “igneous” death of the earth. But that
end would be preceded by the destruction of the terrestrial organisms,
all being menaced by death from the cold, which would set in much
earlier.

1This extreme vacuum at —170° C. has the modulus of viscosity 2X10°% c.g. s. To
overcome the resistance that the ether offers to our earth would require more than
150,000,000 horsepower. Meteorites must glow in the ether if their diameter be less than
50 cm. As a matter of fact, a glowing meteorite has been observed at a height of some
780 kilometers (above Sinope on Sept. 5, 1868, reported by G. von Niessl in Verhandl.
d. naturforsch. Vereines in Britinn, vol. 17, p. 316, 1879), and even in the spectrum of the

comets when approaching perihelium (when their velocity is greatest) clear indications of
the glowing of solid bodies have been observed.
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The energy thrown out with the sunlight is several billion times
greater than the total interchange of energy which takes place on the
earth. The sun gives off continually enormous quantities of it, and
its supply, of whatever unknown kind it may be, must finally be
exhausted. It would cool down more and more, and our civilization,
after terrible struggles, would meet with disaster more and more
amidst the ever-present ice.

Thus the two fundamental physical laws lead, it is seen, to essen-
tially gloomy consequences, but, with all the respect that is due to
their sublime results and to their precision, it is only right to ask
whether they are really established with such ideal exactness as to
enable one to draw conclusions applicable to epochs immensely re-
mote, and to comprehend the very plan of creation. Before accept-
ing these consequences, it will be well to submit these inexorable laws
to a much more searching scrutiny. That the law of gravitation will
not support an examination carried to extreme limits, nearly all as-
tronomers agree in admitting. The most striking deviation from this
law is offered us by the moon, which undergoes an inexplicable ac-
celeration, not less than 6 seconds per century. An analogous anom-
aly, more marked and still more complicated, has also been recog-
nized in the motion of Encke’s comet. The orbit of Mercury pre-
sents an inexplicable perihelic rotation, attaining 40 seconds per
century, and its eccentricity is not augmented with the rapidity which
the law of gravitation demands. The orbit of Mars is subject to
anomalies of the same nature, while the inclination of the orbit of
Venus increases too rapidly by 10 seconds every century. Terrestrial
gravity presents, even from the point of view of direction, a diurnal
and annual oscillation of a fraction of a second, which is not to be
explained alone by the attraction of the moon or of the sun.2_ It is
true that these are relatively small and isolated deviations, and that in
general the law of gravitation suffices for the calculation of the mo-
tions of the stars with a sufficient approximation, always assuming
that the cosmic ether is absolutely devoid of friction. This latter,
however, is far from being accepted by physicists. When one con-
siders that the periodic comets, even the smallest ones, apparently
undergo no frictional resistance, that they are capable of penetrating
the solar corona at a speed of 5,500 kilometers per second, without
undergoing appreciable loss, one is obliged to admit that the law of
gravitation is not sufficient, but that forces unknown, though hinted
at by Kepler, act upon the stars in motion, and tend to offset the ef-
fects due to friction of the cosmic ether. It is a fact that no trace,
however slight, of a beginning of the falling of the planets toward
the sun, as the law of Newton predicts, has yet been shown. The same

1G. H. Darwin, Tides, 1898, p. 125; O. Hecker, Publications of the Royal Prussian
Geodetic Institute, No. 32, 1907.
Se a ee ee

MODERN IDEAS ON THE END OF THE WORLD—JAUMANN. 217

may be said of the cooling of the sun, which should follow in ac-
cordance with the law of energy. It was supposed for a long time
to be self-evident that the climate of the earth had grown constantly
cooler, but this idea has been entirely abandoned. Fluctuations less
than 10 degrees centigrade on both sides of the mean temperature
have often occurred, several times in Europe, thus placing these
regions now under tropical conditions, and now under the conditions
of the Arctic Zone. But from this point of view the most remote
ages of the geologic history of the earth differ not at all from the
present epoch. Glacidl formations, extensive but not thick, have
been found in early Cambrian strata.1 | At that time the tempera-
ture was not higher but lower than in our epoch, and more than a
hundred million years have passed since then.

One can with difficulty admit of the existence in the sun of a
supply of energy able to endure without appreciable decrease, for so
long a time, the enormous expenditure due to radiation. The sta-
bility of the planetary system and the inexhaustible luminous power
of the sun are, furthermore, to a certain extent verified by direct
geologic observation.

How is it that the law of gravitation and the principle of the
conservation of energy fail so entirely in their prophecy concerning
the end of the world? What is the hidden defect of these laws
which, as the foundations of physics, have given such magnificent
results within narrower limits, and how can they be given an en-
tirely correct form ?

Regarding these really fundamental questions of theoretical
physics, I feel myself called upon to speak, in so far as they fall
within the field of my own studies. I should point out, however,
that questions are concerned which are far from being decided,
and that I can treat here only their “ phenomenalistic” aspect. The
Newtonian hypothesis of the attraction of a star on a remote body,
directly and instantly, without the physical intervention of an in-
termediary medium, was an abstraction nearly accurate, though at
bottom little true to nature. Laplace himself admitted the progres-
sive transmission of gravitation.?, He supposed that this effect was
propagated, though at great speed, through the cosmic ether. The
magnetic forces between two magnets were likewise supposed at
first to act immediately at a distance. Faraday recognized eventually
that the air or similar medium contained between the two magnets
(the magnetic field), far from being indifferent, was in a state of
tension, and that the magnetic effects of one magnet on another were
propagated from point to point, from one particle to the particle
immediately adjoining it. It is thus that the elementary action

1Compare, for example, Walther, History of the Earth, 1908, p. 199.
2 Laplace Mécanique céleste, vol. 4, p. 317.
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

is always produced in ultimate particles situated in the magnetic
field, and its law is a differential law expressing the relation of
cause and effect between the existing conditions and their causative
predecessors in each ultimate particle of the space. It is from the
interaction between all the ultimate particles of the magnetic field
in the so-called integral that the effects at a distance result. Maxwell
established the laws of effect from point to point of electromagnetism
(or differential laws of the electromagnetic field), which with an
admirable simplicity not only explained the electromagnetic phe-
nomena formerly known (which the laws of effect at a distance were
equally capable of doing), but did much more; they predicted, in-
deed, the propagation of electric vibrations through space in the
form of electromagnetic rays. The luminous rays appeared thus as
 electromagnatic rays. Hertz obtained, with purely electromagnetic
resources, electromagnetic rays of great wave length, and Marconi
has utilized these same rays in wireless telegraphy. Thus it is
that one of the greatest and most. difficult advances in the theory,
the transition from laws of effect at a distance to theories of effect
from point to point, led immediately to a great technical advance.
At that time (more than 20 years ago), many physicists, Hertz
and Mach in particular, recognized that the real object of the theory
was to explain physical phenomena by differential laws, a task which
seemed to pass much beyond the attainable, but it has been in large
part satisfactorily performed,* since at present the law of gravitation
itself can be expressed in the form of a law of effect from point to
point.2 The end sought in this connection consists in dethroning the
old corpuscular and mechanical theories still so full of vigor. The
list of facts brought forth by the two contending parties increases in
length from year to year and the struggle between phenomenalistic
investigation and mechanical investigation is waged on a field of great
extent, embracing almost the entire domain of the exact sciences. The
combat centers around the question of the nature of light and of the
cathode rays. The new theory of gravitation is only a partial victory

1G. Jaumann, A complete system of physical and chemical differential laws, Sitz-
ungsber. K. Akad. Wiss. Wien, Math.-Naturwiss. Kl., vol. 120, pt. 2a, 1911, pp. 385-530.

2G. Jaumann, The theory of gravitation, Sitzungsber. K. Akad, Wiss. Wien, Math.-
Naturwiss. KI., vol. 121, pt. 2a, 1912, pp. 95-182.

The majority of physicists still subscribe to the emission theory of cathode rays (the
corpuscular or emissional theory) and there is a tendency, under the leadership of Hinstein
and Planck, toward giving up finally the essential features of the classical theory and
going back to a sort of emission theory of light.

Regarding the undulation theory of cathode rays and the phenomalistic undulation
theory of light in dispersion media, see G. Jaumann, The electromagnetic theory (Sitz-
ungsber. K. Akad. Wiss. Wien, Math.-Naturwiss. K1., vol. 117, pt. 2a, 1908, pp. 379-543),
which paper was rejected by the editors of the Annalen der Physik in 1908 and in 1911
was honored by a prize by the Imperial Academy of Sciences in Vienna. See also BE.
Lohr, The boundary conditions in G. Jaumann’s electromagnetic theory (Sitzungsber. K.
Akad. Wiss. Wien, Math.-Naturwiss. Kl., vol. 120, pt. 2a, 1911, pp. 1503-1567, and vol.
121, 1912, pp. 683-678.
SSS >

MODERN IDEAS ON THE END OF THE WORLD—JAUMANN. 219

on the extreme wing, but by virtue of it we now have exact notions
regarding the manner of propagation of gravitation through the cos-
mic ether. The anomalies of the field of gravitation compensate each
other in cosmic space, according to a law analogous to that which rules
the irregularities of the distribution of temperature in a good con-
ductor of heat. It is only for stars in a state of repose that the New-
tonian law of effects at a distance follows exactly from the differentia]
law of gravitation.

Now, the motions of the planets produce disturbances, a kind of
damming up, so to speak, of the field of gravitation in front of the
moving stars, giving birth to new forces of gravitation added to the
Newtonian forces. Although very small, it can be determined with
precision that the most important among them has the same direction
as that of the motion of the planet to which it is a stimulus. It in-
creases with the speed of the planet and varies in inverse ratio to the
distance separating it from the sun. These new forces of gravitation
introduce into the planetary movements disturbances which can be
calculated without difficulty, and even cause the deviations from the
Newtonian law which we have mentioned above. By them are ex-
plained the anomalous perihelic rotations, accelerations, oscillations
of the vertical, ete.—that is, all the phenomena of gravitation, without
any being left over, which the Newtonian law of effects at a distance
was incapable of doing. These new forces of gravitation moreover
give to the planetary system a physical stability of unlimited dura-
tion. They keep the planetary orbits in their present form, not
only in spite of the very considerable resistance due to friction of the
cosmic ether, but.also in spite of enormous accidental disturbances.

‘If a disturbance of this nature (which might be due, for example, to

the passage in the neighborhood of the solar system of a fixed star
imbued with a very rapid motion of its own) should be produced, and
modify entirely the form of the planetary orbits, the new forces of
gravitation would introduce into the elements of the orbits such vari-.
ations that these planetary orbits would gradually return exactly to
their existing stable form. Far from becoming dangerous, the fric-
tional resistance of the cosmic ether, on the contrary, helps essentially
to make the planetary orbits stable. The greater this resistance the
more considerable become the new forces of gravitation and the more
obstinate the planetary orbits in conserving, in spite of all the disturb-
ances, their stable form. Thus there can no longer be any question of
the planets dropping into the sun. Far from being unstable, far from
tending toward a destruction more or less remote, the planetary sys-
tem is, then, established for a duration which, estimated according
to the ideas of time that we are able to conceive, may be considered
as eternal.
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The absolute validity of the principle of the conservation of
energy is incontestable, but its new differential form+ leads in
entirely new directions. The cause of the indefinite constancy of
the temperature of the sun rises from the inevitable reaction of the
differential law of gravitation on the law of the propagation or
radiation of energy and in particular the differential law of the
conduction of heat, established by Fourier. The forms of the two
differential laws must be placed in opposition to each other in order,
when taken together, to correspond to the principle of energy. The
very considerable role which the mass of bodies plays as the cause
of the concentration of the forces of gravitation demands a corre-
sponding influence of the mass of bodies on the concentration of
energy. To the radiation of energy called the flow of heat there
corresponds a new flow of energy in the direction of gravitation.
Thus the law of the conduction of heat established by Fourier is
strictly applicable only to media of extremely slight density. In
dense substances there must be a hitherto unrecognized concentration
of energy, and this is not an hypothesis, but simply the balance of
the system of laws of effects from point to point. All dense bodies
should in consequence produce heat incessantly and spontaneously.
All bodies are so many radiators functioning without loss, although
in very different and to us generally imperceptible degrees. Far
from being in contradiction to the principle of energy, this fact
springs exactly from its expression in the form of the law of effect
from point to point. The salts of radium, indeed, produce a similar
effect of spontaneous radiation, but this is of such an exceptional
intensity that it has amazed the physicists. Upon its discovery

doubts were conceived of the validity of the principle of energy,

but it is only the integral form of the principle which gives place
to these doubts, while the differential form, or the law of effect
from point to point, is thus all the more firmly established. The
increase of temperature in the deep strata of the earth is explained
by this effect of spontaneous radiation without the intervention of
the hypothesis of deposits of radium. Moreover, there is produced
toward the sun an enormous concentration of the new radiation of
energy arising from the field of gravitation, which compensates for
the loss of energy which the sun undergoes and assures the permanent
constancy of its mean temperature. Consequently the sun yields
no energy at all to the wide circle of cosmic space; that which it
radiates into cosmic space is recovered in the form of this flow of
energy from the field of gravitation. The senseless waste of the
sun’s energy, of which the theory of effects at a distance seems to

1G, Jaumann, Sitzungsber. K. Akad. Wiss., Wien. Math.-Naturwiss. Kl., vol. 117, pt.
2a, p. 388 et seq.; vol. 120, p. 398 and p. 505; vol. 121, p. 169.
Pe ee

MODERN IDEAS ON THE END OF THE WORLD—JAUMANN. 221

prove the existence, is shown by the theory of effect from point to
point to have no place in nature. A cooling off of the sun will not
bring the development of our civilization to a stop, after which,
through the deterioration of the climate, it will disappear and the
last men will live like Eskimos on the entirely glaciated earth. The
radiation from the sun being stable, the intellectual and physical
evolution of humanity will be able for an immeasurable time to
mount to heights surpassing, perhaps, anything the imagination is
capable of conceiving.

Thus, as a result of the development of the differential theories,
a new and unsought contribution to cosmology of high and moral
value has been obtained.
4
b
|
P
h

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM.*

By EvuGENE BLocH,
Professor at the Lycée Saint Louis.

The domain of electromagnetism is to-day so broad and so com-
plex that in a few pages we can not hope to show all its frontiers.
For the present, therefore, we will limit ourselves to reviewing cer-
tain problems which particularly attract our attention, either by the
number or the importance of the investigations which they have
produced. We will start with the theoretical developments and end
with the results gained in the laboratory.’

I. THE DYNAMICS OF THE ELECTRON AND ELECTROMAGNETIC MASS.

The electromagnetic theory of matter and the ether in the per-
fected form due to H. A. Lorentz is really a theory of electrons.
Matter in all its forms is by it considered as made up of complex
groups of which an essential element is the negative electron either
free or bound to an atom. This element is defined by its charge ¢
(4.5X10- electrostatic units) and its mass, which is invariably at
small velocities (e/m=1.76 10" electromagnetic units). This result
was the logical consequence of a long and brilliant series of discov-
eries which marked the end of the last and the beginning of the
present century (cathode rays, X rays, gaseous ions, Zeeman effect,
radioactivity, etc.).

A fundamental problem of this theory is evidently the study of
the motion of an isolated electron and the electromagnetic perturba-
tions which accompany it. This problem gains in interest as experi-
mental demonstration becomes possible. Cathode rays from all
sources (rays from Crookes’s tubes, from the photoelectric effect, the
8 rays from radium) are, indeed, fluxes of electrons projected at
great velocities from matter. Let us, therefore, review first the
important results of the theory which was developed by Heaviside

4 Translated by permission from Revue générale des Sciences pures et appliquées, Paris,
24th year, No. 8, Apr. 30, 1913.

2Tt will be out of the question, for instance. in this review to consider the recent
researches on the larger ions, X-rays, radioactivity, vacuum tubes, and the phenomena
connected with them (positive rays, etc.), or atmospheric electricity.

223

224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

and Searle and later and fundamentally by J. J. Thomson (1881),
a theory which has passed through many successive developments.

(1) An electron moving with a uniform velocity, or at least a
velocity only slowly variable (quasi-stationary), carries invariably
tied to it an electromagnetic field the form of which can be com-
pletely deduced from the Maxwell-Lorentz equations. This moving
field has been called the “ velocity wave.” ;

(2) If the electron suffers an acceleration, a wave is immediately
propagated from it having all the characteristics of a luminous wave
(transverse vibrations, rectangular electric and magnetic fields).
This disturbance has been called an “acceleration wave.” At great
distances from the electron the latter wave alone exists because its
amplitude varies inversely as the distance from the electron and not
as the inverse square as does that of the othér wave. This shows us
the probable origin of luminous radiations and the root of the expla-
nation of the Zeeman effect. Here also we find the explanation of
X-rays which are electromagnetic pulses? due to the abrupt stoppage
of cathode corpuscles at the anticathode and the resulting negative
acceleration.

(3) In order to give an electron a quasi-stationary movement
there must be communicated to it energy which is stored up in its
field as electric and magnetic energy. The necessary calculations
for this field are relatively simple where the ratio (@) of the veloc-
ity (v) of the particle to the velocity of light, V) is small. They
become more complicated where @ approaches unity and were first
made completely by Max Abraham ® in 1903 upon the hypothesis of
a rigid, spherical electron carrying a charge uniformly distributed

throughout its volume. Then the magnetic energy of the field can
2

always be expressed in the form of kinetic energy, > It is

quite natural to speak of the coefficient m as the electromagnetic
mass of the electron. This mass may be superposed upon the ordi-
nary mass, at least it does not wholly take its place. This leads to
an electromagnetic interpretation of mechanics. In this new me-
chanics, the mass m does not maintain a constant value m, except
at very small velocities. For a velocity comparable with that of
light (8 near 1) the mass becomes a function of $ and increases
indefinitely as @ approaches unity. Further it is necessary to dis-
tinguish between a longitudinal and a transverse mass according

1See the references cited further on.

2We have not sufficient space to describe the curious theory of Bragg according to
which the X-rays and the 7 rays of radium are uncharged particles of matter. More-
over this theory appears to be contradicted by the recent beautiful experiments of Lane
and his pupils upon the diffraction of X-rays by crystals. (Bragg, Phil. Mag., Oct.,
1907; Chem. News, vol. 97, p. 162, 1908; Radium, p. 213, 1908. See also articles by
Brunet in this Revue for Feb. 15, 1913.)

3 See Ions, electrons and corpuscles, vol. 1.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. yey

to the orientation of the accelleration with regard to the velocity.
The transverse mass, detectable only in the experiments with the
deviations of the cathode rays, is given according to Max Abraham
by the relation
m_ 3 1+? a 1+8
m, 46°\ 28 pal

This formula seemed completely verified by the observations of
Kaufmann! (1900 and 1903). He measured the variation of the
ratio e/m with the velocity for the @ rays from radium, utilizing
the electric and magnetic deviations of the electrons having veloci-
ties reaching ninety-five one-hundredths of the velocity of light.

Since then other formule have been proposed in the place of this.
Langevin and Bucherer,’? basing their formula upon the ee
of a deformable electron of constant volume, obtained

Bee

Further, as a consequence of the development of the theory of rela-
tivity (see Sec. II of this article), H. A. Lorentz, postulating an
electron of constant equatorial diameter, deduced a third formula:

These new formule also appear to fit the experiments of Kaufmann.
It became necessary, therefore, to make new experiments more pre-
cise than those of Kaufmann in order to choose between the various
formule. Several attempts to do this have been made.

Bucherer® placed a grain of radium fluoride at the center of a
condenser formed of two flat disks 8 cm. in diameter and séparated
by 0.25 mm. This condenser was inclosed in an air-tight cylindrical
box, the walls of which carried a photographic film. This was all
placed in a uniform magnetic field parallel to the plates and a very
perfect vacuum produced. When the condenser is charged, the @
rays trace upon the film a line the analysis of which permits the
ealculation of the variation of e/m with the velocity. In this case
the formula of Lorentz is found to fit best, confirming nicely the
principle of relativity.

1 See Ions, electrons and corpuscles, vol. 1.

* Langevin, Revue générale des Sciences, p. 267, 1905.

? Bucherer, Physik. Zeitschrift, vol, 9, p. 755, 1908; Annalen der Physik, vol. 28, p. 513,
1909.

44863°—sm 1913——15
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

These conclusions have been clenched by yet later experiments.
Hupka! used the electrons from the photo-electric effect, produced in
a very perfect vacuum and accelerated by intense electric fields
reaching a strength of 90,000 volts. The knowledge of the velocity
v and the ratio e/m was deduced from the magnetic deviation,
rendered evident by a fluorescent screen, and the magnitude of the
accelerating potential. The maximum velocities obtained were of
the order of v/2. The formula of Lorentz fits these observations also
better than that of Abraham. However, these experiments are less
convincing than the preceding ones, as Heil noted,’ since the highest
potentials must be known with a precision greater than 1 per cent, an
accuracy difficult to obtain.

C. E. Guye and Ratnovsky,® desirous of escaping this difficulty,
used ordinary cathode rays, produced in a good vacuum, and deviated
at the same time both electrically and magnetically so as to get rid
of the necessity of measuring the potential used. These results also
confirm Lorentz’s formula at the expense of Abraham’s.

We are led by all these results to look upon an electron as deform-
able only in the direction of its motion, conformable with the prin-
ciple of relativity; in this respect they undergo the contraction of
Lorentz (see further on). Do all difficulties now disappear? With-
out considering the objections of a more general nature which are
to-day urged against the principle of relatively (see Sec. Il), we
must say,no. As H. Poincaré‘ has observed, we can not comprehend
why an electron does not disintegrate spentaneously under the in-
fluence of the electric and magnetic forces due to its charge unless
there comes into play, in order to maintain equilibrium, other forces
from without analogous to pressure. We are led thus to introduce
something further than pure electromagnetism as a basis of our new
mechanics. We are just as far as ever from comprehending the
primordial forces underlying matter.

II. THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY.

Lorentz has shown that the electromagnetic theory furnishes an
explanation of the negative results of the experiments which were
expected to demonstrate, either by electrical or optical means, the
movement of translation of the earth relative to the supposed sta-
tionary ether. These experiments could detect only the effects of
the first order with reference to 8 (quotient of the velocity of trans-
lation of the earth, v, relative to the velocity of light, V), while

1 Hupka, Verh. der Deutsch. Phys. Gesellsch., vol. 11, p. 249, 1909; Annalen der Physik,
1910.

2 Heil, Annalen der Physik, vol. 31, p. 519, 1910.

3 Guye and Ratnovsky, Comptes Rendus, CL, p. 326, 1910.

4H. Poincaré, Rendiconti del Circolo Math, di Palermo, vol. 21, p. 129, 1906.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM——BLOCH. 92%

theory shows that the effects should be of the order of @? or smaller.
This theory then received a rude shock from the celebrated experi-
ment of Michelson (1881) relative to the interference of two rays
propagated at right angles to each other and which should show
the terms of the second order of 8. The negative result was irrec-
oncilable with the theory, the effect observed being less than one
one-hundredth of that calculated... We must therefore modify the
theory.

The modification necessary was announced almost at the same time
by Lorentz and by Fitzgerald. It consisted in supposing that a
moving solid body suffers a contraction in the direction of its motion
equal to 07/2. This is the celebrated hypothesis known as the “ con-
traction of Lorentz.” It seems very strange at first sight and insti-
gated the experiments by Lord Rayleigh,’ and by Brace,’ who tried
to find evidence of this contraction in the double refraction which it
should produce. Their results were negative. In order to explain
these consequences and place the theory in a more satisfactory form,
Lorentz was led to a hypothesis which contained the germ of the
theory of relativity.*| He showed that the electromagnetic equations
for bodies in motion could be put in the same form as for bodies at
rest by means of what is called the “transformation of Lorentz.”
This permits the expression of the coordinates x, y, 2, and the time ¢
for a system i motion as a function of the coordinates %, %, Zo, and
¢, for the system at rest, thus establishing a correspondence between
the electric and magnetic fields of the two systems. This group of
transformations contains, as a particular case, the hypothesis of con-
traction, which is found to be of the magnitude (1-@?)4, in agree-
ment almost to terms of the fourth order with the magnitude origi-
nally admitted. It further explains the negative results of Michel-
son, Rayleigh, and Brace. Through it we understand the negative
results of Trouton and Noble in their electrostatic experiment which
was expected to indicate the terms in @?.°

The experiments explained by the transformation of Lorentz go
only to the terms in $?. We do not know any at present which go
further, but it is natural to suppose that even taking into account
terms of higher orders, we will never be able to get evidence of the
motion of translation of the earth with reference to the ether. In
other words, we can probably detect only the relative motions of two
material systems with reference to each other and not their absolute

1The original experiment was made by Michelson and Morley in 1887 and repeated
most recently by Morley and Miiller, Phil. Mag., vol. 9, p. 680, 1905.

2 Rayleigh, Phil. Mag., vol. 4, p. 678, 1902.

3 Brace, Phil. Mag., vol. 7, p. 317, 1904.

*See the admirable book by Lorentz, entitled ‘“‘ The Theory of Electrons,’ and published
by Teubner in Leipzig, 1909.

5’ Trouton and Noble, Phil. Trans., vol. 202, p. 165, 1903. See also Langevin, Comptes
Rendus, vol. 140, p. 1171, 1905.
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

movement with reference to a supposed stationary ether. This novel
hypothesis was announced in its most general form for the first time
by Einstein,’ who named it the principle of relativity. Starting with
this simple principle, Einstein modified slightly the transformation
of Lorentz, giving to it a physical basis of very great generality and
gathering all the conclusions resulting from it into a group of per-
fectly consistent formule.

We will not state here all the physical and philosophical conse-
quences of this theory of relativity. We will note only the absolute
character assumed by the two fundamental postulates of this theory:
First, the ether is immovable and penetrates matter perfectly ; second,
the velocity of light is an absolute invariant and represents a su-
perior limit which‘no other velocity can exceed (whether for matter
in motion or the propagation of waves). The theory has been fur-
ther developed (principally by Germans) by Einstein (1905-1912),
Minkowski (1905-1908), Planck (1907-8), Born (1909), Som-
merfeld (1910), Laue (1911), etc. The various points of view
which these physicists have adopted are too numerous to be given
here in detail; some have tried to put the transformations of Lorentz
into more geometrical and comprehensive form (Minkowski) ; others
have deduced the kinetic consequences of the principle, either for a
moving point (composition of velocities according to Sommerfeld)
or for a solid body in rotation (Born, Laue, etc.). Difficulties and
complications quickly arise as soon as the motion of uniform trans-
lation originally supposed is departed from and these difficulties have
not yet been overcome. The total absence of any experimental basis
or confirmation of these later developments deters us from further
discussion. We will stop a moment only on one of the most para-
doxical consequences of the principle of relativity which will bring
out the difficulties which the theory encounters and rebut the abso-
lutism of the principles which it uses as bases of the physical
sciences. At the start Einstein? showed that if the energy of a sys-
tem increases by the amount /, the principle of relativity requires
that its mass increases at the same time by E/V?. Only on this con-
dition can the principle of the conservation of the movement of the
center of gravity as well as the new system of mechanics be main-
tained. Accordingly, mass and energy are not really distinct; the
principle of the conservation of mass is inseparable from the prin-
ciple of conservation of energy. This result, however strange, is
nevertheless consistent in itself.

Einstein himself, basing his deductions on this consequence, tried
to bring back to the principle of relativity the absolute value which

1 Hinstein, Annalen der Physik, vol. 17, p. 902, 1906.

2 Binstein, 1. c. and Annalen der Physik, vol. 20, p. 627, 1906; vol. 23, p. 578,
1907, etc.
t

DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. 229

had been attributed to it since 1905.1. He has tried to include in
the electromagnetic synthesis of the universe the phenomenon of
gravity, hitherto so rebellious against all our efforts at explanation.
He noted that a uniform gravitational field of constant accelera-
tion, y, is equivalent to a medium free from gravitation in which the
reference axes are supposed acting with a uniform acceleration
—y. Next we must generalize the principle of relativity and pass
from the case considered until now of a uniform velocity of trans-
lation to that of a uniform acceleration. In the earlier case we
were led to attribute to energy a mass m=//V?; now, if we wish
to preserve the principle in its entirety we must attribute to the
same energy the weight my. As a particular case, radiant energy,
light, must have weight; a beam of hght must then be deviated by
the masses close to which it may pass. Einstein’s calculation showed,
for example, that the angular distance between a star and the center
of the sun must be decreased by about one second when the star
appears close to the sun. The measurement could be attempted at
a total eclipse of the sun.

There is no need of calling attention to the strangeness of these
conclusions. The important thing from a philosophical point of
view is that we are obliged to give up the absolute invariability
of the velocity of light, V, considered at the start as an unassailable
axiom. This invariability is only true in a system where the gravi-
tational potential ¢ remains constant. For variable potentials the
velocity of light must. vary according to the formula, V=V,
(1+0/V?). So it is only in the case of uniform motion of
translation that the transformation of Lorentz represents the phe-
nomena of a system in movement. In the more general case the
group of transformations is more complicated and as yet undeter-
mined ; the equations to be substituted for those of the classic elec-
tromagnetism are also undetermined.

This new point of view of Einstein has at least one incontestable
utility: It makes us realize that the postulates which were at the
basis of the earlier principle of relativity (the invariability of V,
etc.) are perhaps only approximate affirmations, susceptible of modi-
fication, and not first truths. It has led us from metaphysics to
physics. And since the discussion became opened anew concerning
the foundations proposed by Einstein we will not be surprised to
find that Max Abraham, adopting this new conception of mass and
weight, has developed a new theory of gravitation, different in many
respects from that of Einstein. Abraham? renounces the generaliza-

1 Winstein, Jahrbuch der Rad. and Hlectronik, vol. 4, p. 4; Annalen der Physik, vol. 35,
p. 898, 1911, etc.

*Max Abraham, Phys.+Zeitschr., vol. 13, No. 1, 1912; Annalen der Physik, vol. 38, p.
1056, vol. 39, p. 444, 1912; Nuovo Cimento, January, 1913.
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion of the principle of relativity in the case of acceleration. Then
considering that as a whole the principle of relativity has failed, he
keeps the Lorentz transformation only for very small changes in
the variables. Considerable discussion has passed between him and
Einstein, but we will not follow the details.*

Admitting that these theories will have a lasting effect upon
science, in the future new experiments will be required and a more
powerful theoretical effort than that of the past. We will close our
exposition of this question by citing the opinions of several skeptical
physicists who, from the beginning, have found the postulates upon
which the theory of relativity rests too absolute and to whose voices
we are now beginning to listen.

The ether in the principle of relativity has been emptied little by
little of all its physical properties; it is represented now only by a
system of mathematical equations, those of Maxwell-Lorentz, and a
number, the velocity of light. It remains as the vehicle of radiant
energy without our questioning how. Ritz,? following to the logical
conclusions such notions, proposes to renounce wholly the hypothesis
of an ether and to return to a theory very close to the old one of
emission. According to him, we need not speak of electric and mag-
netic fields, but only of electric charges acting upon each other.
We thus return to action at a distance but taking into account the
finite velocity with which such action takes place. Consequently it
is necessary to throw away the partial differential equations of the
electric field and replace them with integrals (retarded potentials).
There is thus introduced an irreversibility of which the former equa-
tions could not take account. Mass at great velocities will remain
constant, but the force will vary. We thus arrive at another system
of mechanics. Against these new conceptions, the development of
which was unfortunately interrupted by the death of the author,
there are grave objections which have so’ far kept the majority of
theorists from adopting them, although they are perfectly consistent
among themselves.

Brillouin,? on the other hand, makes the ether more substantial
than has been customary. There must be, according to him, a drastic
revision of the hypotheses relative to it. For example, its absolute
immobility, perfect permeability, homogeneity, isotropy, and the in-
variability of the velocity of light. Those upholding the principle of
relativity bave themselves commenced to attack the last postulate, as
we have just seen. Now it will be the turn of the other properties.
We may come, through the increasing acuteness of our powers of

1 Hinstein, Annalen der Physik, vol. 38, p. 355 and 1059, 1912; vol. 39, p. 704, 1912.

2 Ritz, Annales de chimie et de physique, vol. 13, p. 145, 1908.

3 Brillouin, Scientia, vol. 13, p. 10, 1913. See the Revue générale des Sciences, Mar.
80, 1913, p. 214.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—-BLOCH. ok

analysis, to admit, to a closer degree of approximation, that the ether,
at least slightly, is similar to ordinary matter, that it may propagate
a disturbance with a velocity greater than that of light, that it does
not remain perfectly stationary when matter traverses it, etc. New
experiments must be added to the purely electro-optic ones of Michel-
son, Rayleigh, Brace, and Troughton before we will be able to build
these theories.

Ill. ELECTROMAGNETISM AND RADIATION.

The difficulties just described are not the only ones which the
modern theory of electromagnetism encounters. Perhaps the gravest
ones arise in adapting it to the experimental facts of radiation, We
know that thermal radiation in equilibrium in a constant-temperature
chamber, and called “black radiation,” has a density independent of
the particular body producing it. It is a function only of the wave-
length } and the absolute temperature 7. Our theoretical knowl-
edge of this density, w,, is expressed by the well-known laws of

Kirchoff, Stefan-Boltzmann, and Wien. Our experimental knowl-
edge is expressed by the formula of Planck,

ae

This equation satisfies not only the three theoretical laws but also
corresponds to the observed distribution of energy in the spectrum
of a black body. This formula reduces for large values of AZ to
the earlier one of Rayleigh,

UW =, /C,- T/A:

Now, the electromagnetic theory seems to lead almost inevitably to
Rayleigh’s formula for all wave-lengths in flagrant contradiction to
experimental facts. The second formula, indeed, does not give a
maximum to the radiation distribution curve and makes the total
radiation infinite. This consequence, which the researches of Lord
Rayleigh? and Jeans* made extremely probable, has been ren-
dered certain by those of Lorentz.* According to the latter’s re-

1 These laws rest only on the Doppler-Fizeau principle, thermodynamical reasoning and
the pressure of radiation, principles which may be held as well proven if not as ex-
perimental facts.

2 Rayleigh, Phil. Mag., vol. 2, p. 539, 1900.

* Jeans, I. c., vol. 10, p. 91, 1905; vol. 17, p. 229, 1909; vol. 17, p. 773, 1909; vol. 18,
p. 209, 1909.

*Lorentz, Revue générale des Sciences, p. 14, 1909; La théorie du rayonnement (The
theory of radiation), Rapports au Congrés de Bruxelles de 1911, publiés par Langevin
and de Broglie.
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

searches, the most general equation of an electromagnetic system,
based upon the ether, electrons, and matter, by a suitable choice of
parameters can be reduced to the Hamiltonian form of the equations
of mechanics. The application of the methods of probability and
statistical mechanics, especially the theorem of Liouville (which is
a consequence of the Hamiltonian form), leads us, then, to consider
as applicable to the ether the theorem of the equipartition of energy
which also brings us out with Rayleigh’s formula.

In order to escape from this blind alley and obtain the earlier
formula, Planck invented the hypothesis of the discontinuity of en-
ergy or quanta. According to this hypothesis, the molecular resona-
tors can not exchange energy with the surrounding medium except
in whole multiples of the same elementary quantity (quantum), Ay,
an amount proportional to the frequency of the resonator. The con-
stant A would be a universal constant. We will not explain here the
various forms given to the theory by Planck himself, Sommerfeld,
Einstein, H. Poincaré, and others (see articles cited, note 4, p. 231).
We will pass over all the consequences which have been deduced from
this hypothesis (theory of specific heats by Einstein, etc.), except
those which are purely electromagnetic.’

Tt appears that we need not give up for the free ether the equations
and ordinary laws of electromagnetics or the dynamics of the free
electron. The modification of the electromagnetic theory which we
must make, if necessary, relates only to the relations between matter
and the ether; that is to say, with regard to electrons not free, to
emissions and absorption of energy, or perhaps to emission alone,
which must then be considered as discontinuous.

Brillouin® thinks that there is a loophole of escape: Planck’s
theory rests upon an arbitrary hypothesis with regard to strictly
monochromatic resonators having very little physical basis. In
giving these up, the complication of the reasoning rapidly increases,
but Brillouin thinks that we can probably come out with Planck’s
formula without recourse to quanta. The result would, however,
be inconsistent with the general theory of Lorentz previously men-
tioned. Possibly we may hope to reach more precise knowledge of
the mechanism of absorption about which we know practically noth-
ing, and thence get a loophole for escape. This doubtless will hap-
pen in the future.

There is another domain than that of radiation, wherein the elec-
tronic and quanta theories are clearly inconsistent, that of the prop-
erties of the metals. According to the electronic theory, the thermal
and electrical conductivities of the metals, as well as many other of

1 See the recent article by J. Perrin in the Revue for Nov. 15, 1912.

2These consequences have been resumed in a notable course of lectures given this year

at the Collége de France by Langevin.
8 Brillouin, Comptes Rendus, vol. 156, pp. 124, 301, 1913.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. 250

their properties, are due to the motion of free electrons. We may,
indeed, derive thus the law of Wiedemann and Franz. Electrons
should therefore play an important part in the specific heats of the
metals. But, according to the theory of quanta, the specific heat is
uniquely related to the uncharged atomic resonators (Hinstein).
This accounts for the behavior of the specific heats at low tempera-
tures. But the quanta theory has nothing to offer as to the thermal
and electrical conductivities. The discordance is, however, decisive.
It is perhaps premature to try to reconcile matters until measures of
the thermal conductivities at low temperatures have been made, com-
parable with the excellent ones on the electrical conductivities made
by Kamerlingh Onnes? at the temperature of liquid air and hydrogen.

IV. THE MAGNETON.

The electron seems to have definitely become one of our physical
properties. P. Weiss’ has for several years, and with increasing
success, tried to introduce an element of magnetism, the magneton,
bringing to bear upon it an imposing mass of experimental results.

He started from the theory of dia- and para-magnetism built by
Langevin.* In that theory diamagnetism is explained by the de-
formation of the intra-atomic electronic trajectories under the influ-
ence of an exterior electric field paramagnetism results from the
existence of a molecular magnetic moment of certain substances.
Weiss has elaborated this theory so as to include ferromagnetism by
means of a supplementary hypothesis, that of molecular magnetic
fields proportional to the magnetizing force. This idea of an electric
field is not new. Through it Ritz* developed his beautiful theory
of the structure of the series of certain spectrum lines and the Zeeman
effect. It led Weiss to formule which are well substantiated by ex-
periment not only in the legitimate field of electromagnetism (the
variation of the Curie constant with the temperature), but also as
to the specific heats of ferromagnetic bodies. It was while looking
for such precise experimental confirmation that Weiss was led to
the theory of the magneton.

The measure of the absolute value of the atomic magnetic moments
of iron and nickel at the temperature of liquid hydrogen, made in
collaboration with MKamerlingh Onnes, led at the start to numbers
12,360 and 3,370, which divided, respectively, by 11 and 3 lead prac-
tically to the same quotient, 1,123.5. For cobalt the corresponding
number was later found to be very close to 9X1,123.5. For the

1 With regard to all these questions which we can not stop to more than sketch, see the
lecture which we delivered before the Société de physique in December, 1911, upon the
electron theory of metals and also the book which we have several times cited on the
Theory of Radiation.

2 Weiss, Journal de physique, pp. 900, 905, 1911.

’ Langevin, Annales de chimie et de physique, vol. 5, p. 70, 1905.
* Ritz, Annalen der Physik, vol. 25, p. 660, 1908.
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

molecule of magnetite the results were more complex and must be
divided by 3 to compare them with the atom of iron. These also
led to whole multiples of the same number, the factor of propor-
tionality changing abruptly at certain temperatures as if the atom
of iron underwent corresponding alterations. The number 1,235,
of which all the atomic magnetic moments are multiples, will be
called the magneton-gram, and its quotient by the Avogadro num-
ber (the number of atoms per gram-atom) is the magneton,
16.4<10-**. The properties of a ferromagnetic body are then well
explained by supposing that the magnetic moments of their atoms
are simple multiples of a magneton. Magnetism will then have a
granular structure like electricity.

Interesting confirmations have been made of this theory through
measures of various experimenters upon paramagnetic salts or, in-
deed, upon other bodies. The numbers of Pascal* and those of Mlle.
Feytis? are in qualitative and quantitative accord with the hypothe-
sis of the magneton. As these numbers were calculated with refer-
ence to water as a standard, an exact knowledge of the diamagnetic
constant of water became necessary. Its measure is difficult and
has led to discrepant results. It has been remeasured separately by
Séve® and by P. Weiss and Piccard,* who have reached concordant
results close to 0.7210 at 20° C. The theory of the magneton
thus has had the merit of fixing definitely this important constant.

- We are obliged to admit, however, that for ferromagnetic bodies
the atom does not possess a unique magnetic moment, but has a cer-
tain number of different values according to the temperature and
the chemical compound into which it enters. All these values, how-
ever, have integral ratios. The actual existence of the magneton
has been demonstrated in the atoms of iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese,
vanadium, calcium, mercury, and uranium. We therefore seem to
have here a real, very general constituent element of matter. We
may therefore think of adding the magneton to the other known
fundamental elementary bodies. The attempt made by Langevin ®
to deduce the magneton from the quantum of Planck will doubtless
serve as a stimulus in this direction.

Vy. THE PRODUCTION AND NATURE OF GASEOUS IONS.

We will not discuss here the simple, ordinary ions, such as origi-
nate from the X rays, radium, the Hertz effect, etc. For several
years the accepted theory (Langevin, J. J. Thomson, Townsend, and
others) was this: the negative electron, torn from a molecule by the

1 Pascal, Ann. Ch. Phys., vol. 16, p. 531, 1909; vol. 19, p. 5, 1910.
2Mule. Feytis, Comptes Rendus, vol. 152, p. 708, 1911.
8 Séve, Ann. Ch. Phys., vol. 27, p. 189, 1912.

4 Weiss and Piccard, Comptes Rendus, vol. 155, p. 1234, 1912.
5 Langevin, Rapport 4 la Conférence de Bruxelles, 1911.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. 9385

ionizing force, surrounds itself with a cortege of neutral molecules;
the residual positive atomic ion does likewise. Thus originate the
ordinary positive and negative ions. They are «characterized by
their mobility A, coefficient of recombination «, and diffusion D. At
very low pressures and at high temperatures these assemblages are
dissociated little by little to the primitive charged center., We will
see that some modification of these ideas will be necessary.

(1) Along the line of theory since the fundamental work of
Langevin (Annales Ch. Phys., 1905) several new attempts have been
made to explain the order of magnitude of the mobilities and their
variations. Among these we should specially mention those of
Sutherland, of Wellisch,2? and of Reinganum.? Sutherland, es-
pecially, departing from the hypothesis of molecular agglomera-
tion, supposes that an ion is identical with the electron or the
primitive atom-ion; its velocity is modified and retarded by the
electric action exercised upon the neighboring ions or the molecules
polarized by its approach. An apparent viscosity is thus created
which explains very well the results of Phillips (see further on) upon
the variation of the mobility with the temperature. The actual
theory is not unlike that which led Sutherland to his well-known
formula for the variation with the temperature of the viscosity of a
gas.

It will be perhaps convenient to use the conventions of the older
theory, considering the ions as assemblages in perpetual process of
formation and disintegration in a kind of dynamical equilibrium;
the charged center will then be in turn free and loaded with neutral
molecules. We will see that a greater part of the experimental data
makes such a convention almost necessary.

(2) With a view to furnishing useful material for the theoretical
developments, many measures have been made upon the mobility,
the rate of recombination, and the diffusion at various temperatures
and pressures. We will mention the measures of Phillips‘ (varia-
tion of & and a with the temperature), Kovorik,> Tood,’ Dempster?
(variation at K at high and low pressures), Sales* (variation of D
with the pressure). These measures show that ionic agglomerations
disintegrate faster at low pressures and high temperatures in the case
of negative ions and tend for both positive and negative ions to
revert to the primitive state. This is in accord with the measures

1 Sutherland, Phil. Mag., vol. 18, p. 341, 1909.

2 Wellisch, Phil. Trans., vol. 209, p. 249, 1909.

3 Reinganum, Phys. Zeitschr., vol. 12, pp. 575 and 666, 1911.

4Phillips, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1906, and vol. 83, p. 246, 1910.

5 Kovorik, Phys. Rev., vol. 30, p. 415, 1910; Proc., vol. 86, p. 154, 1912.
6 Tood, Radium, p. 113, 1911; p. 465, 1911.

7 Dempster, Phys. Rev., vol. 34, p. 53, 1912.

8 Sales, Radium, p. 59, 1911.
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

made upon flames by Moreau,! Lusby,? H. A. Wilson, and others.®
The negative ions in flames appear to differ little from corpuscles
and are scarcely loaded in their accidental encounters with molecules.
The positive ion has a size of the order of magnitude of a free atom-
ion and often appears to be formed of an hydrogen atom, more rarely
of a metallic atom in certain flames colored by salts.

(3) It is mostly with ionization at ordinary temperatures that the
newer results have been obtained. The study of ionized gaseous
mixtures was first undertaken by Blanc* and by Wellisch. Accord-
ing to them an ion produced in a gas A and then transported into
another gas B, assumes a mobility characteristic of the gas B. This
agrees with the idea of temporary agglomerations constantly de-
stroyed and built up again. Blane carried out his experiment with
ions formed in carbonic acid gas and then transported into air.
Wellisch created his ions in CH,I of CCl, and then transported them
into hydrogen. According to him the ionization in hydrogen is
enormously increased by traces of CH, whereas the mobility changes
only slightly. It looks as if the heavily ionized molecules of CH,1
transfer their charges to the hydrogen molecules. This is a re-
markable property belonging to certain ions. The same experi-
menters, as well as Lathey,® Tyndall,” and others, have studied
with precision the influence of traces of a foreign gas upon the
mobility of ions. According to Blanc a small amount of aqueous
vapor diminishes the mobility of the negative ion and increases that
of the positive ion in air and in carbonic acid gas (450 and 490
C. G. S. for air instead of 380 and 600). The same occurs with
aleohol vapor. The molecules of water and alcohol without doubt
remain longer associated with the charged nucleus than those of
air, carbonic acid gas, or hydrogen. Just the opposite is the case
with the molecules of CH,I, CCl,, etc. From this we see also that
in certain gases the positive ions finally surpass the negative ions
in mobility. This, for instance, happen with chlorine.

The most remarkable fact in this connection was noted by Franck.®
Working upon argon he found normal mobilities (of the order of
1 cm. in a 1 volt-cm. field) for the positive ions, while the negative
ions had mobilities of more than 200 em. and behaved as corpuscles
free from corteges of molecules during the major part of their
courses in the gas. This enormous mobility diminishes very rapidly

1 Moreau, Comptes Rendus, vol. 148, p. 342, 1909; Radium, p. 70, 1910.

2Lusby, Proc. Cambr., vol. 16, p. 26, 1911; Phil. Mag., vol. 22, p. 775, 1911.
3H. A. Wilson, Phil. Mag., vol. 21, p. 711, 1911.

4Blanec, Journal de physique, vol 7, p. 838, 1908.

5 Wellisch, Radium, p. 241, 1909, and 1. ¢.

6 Lathey, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 84, p. 173, 1910.

7Tyndall, Nature, vol. 84, p. 530, 1910.

8 Franck, Verh. Deutsch. Phys. Gesellsch., vol. 12, p. 291, 1910. ‘
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. pra

under the least trace of oxygen; it is brought down to 1.7 cm. by
1.5 per cent of oxygen. The tendency to associate with the oxygen
molecules is therefore much greater than with the argon atom.
Nitrogen shows a behavior analogous to argon.

(4) The study of the charge carried by the ions has led also to
important results. The method used for measuring the charge e
is based upon the condensation of water-vapor upon the ions
(Townsend and J. J. Thomson) and has been further perfected by
Millikan’? and his pupils. By means of a microscope a single drop
of oil or other material charged by the ionized gas is observed be-
tween the horizontal plates of a condenser. Its rates of rise or fall
due to the combined electrical and gravitational fields are followed,
and from these rates the charge e may be computed. Thus by ob-
serving the sudden changes in the rates the new charges can be noted
as they are added or taken away from the drop. It is found that
these modifications of the charge of the drop always occur in whole
multiples of the same elementary charge, e. The mean of the num-
bers found for e was 4.8910-"° electrostatic units. This number
accords with that deduced by Rutherford from his measures with
the rays although J. Perrin found somewhat smaller values from his
study of emulsions and of the Brownian movement.

An important fact was noted by Townsend? and his students: Ions
of double charge, 2e, or multiples of this, were found in ionized gases.
- This was noted in the experiments made in 1899, by means of which
Townsend, measuring the diffusion coefficient D by a method using
a gaseous current and comparing it with the mobility % was able to
determine the product Ve of the charge of the ion by the Avogadro’s
number (the number of atoms per atom-gram). This was a static
method and permitted the evaluation directly of the quotient 4/D
which equals the product Ve. This result was dependent upon the
method of ionization used. At mean pressures and with the a rays
from radium in air or the secondary rays due to X rays produced
upon polished brass in hydrogen or oxygen, slightly moist, ions of
opposite sign were both found to give nearly the value 1.2410".
However, if the secondary rays are produced in air at a sheet of
brass, oxidized or covered with vaseline, or in other gases (hydrogen,
oxygen, carbonic acid) upon the same strip polished and covered
vaseline, the value of Ve is much greater for the positive ions. It
may be found as high as 2.410!°. We conclude therefore first, that -
certain positive ions carry a charge 2e; secondly, that such ions are
produced by the more penetrating secondary rays which are not

1 Millikan, Radium, p. 345, 1910; Phys. Rev., vol. 32, p. 349, 1911.

2 Townsend, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 80, p. 207, 1908; vol. 81, p. 464, 1909; vol. 85, p. 25,
1911; Haselfoot, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 82, p. 18, 1909.
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

absorbed by the vaseline. The existence of these polyvalent ions has
been confirmed by Franck and Westphal, who returned to the older
method, using a gaseous current and devised by Townsend, in which
K and P are separately measured. With X rays the proportion of
polyvalent ions is about 1/10; with the @ rays of polonium of
the 6 rays of radium there seem to be no polyvalent ions. Millikan
and Fletscher? do not agree with these conclusions, basing their ob-
jections upon the method of drops earlier described. But the earlier
physicists maintain their interpretation, which also seems to be in
good accord with the results from other methods (multiple charges
of the « rays from radium, of the canal rays, the positive rays of
vacuum tubes, according to J. J. Thomson, Gehrke, and Reichenheim
and others).

However, the question must seem at present unsolved. Very re-
cently, Langevin and Salles,? measuring the ratio K/D by a new
direct method, have concluded against the existence of polyvalent ions
in the ionization by X rays. We must therefore still leave the ques-
tion open.

(5) Finally, we must note the remarkable experiment by which
C. T. K. Wilson‘ has enlightened us as to the mechanism of ioniza-
tion. Continuing his celebrated experiments on the condensation
of water vapor on ions, he succeeded in seeing and photographing
the trail of ions, produced in a gas by an angle « or @ particle from
radium or a very narrow pencil of X rays.

His admirable photographs themselves alone can give an idea of
all of which we can learn from them. Upon them we see the 2 and 8
particles following their rectilinear trajectories; we learn that the
X rays do not ionize directly but by the secondary rays which they
tear from the molecules encountered in the gas, etc. We find also
a direct verification of the hypothesis advanced by Langevin and put
to experimental test by Moulin® in order to explain the “initial re-
combination” discovered by Bragg. According to the latter, the
saturation current of a gas ionized by « rays is much more difficult
to obtain than when X rays are used. This is due, not to an “ initial
recombination” between the positive atom ions and electrons just
liberated, but to a localization of the ions along the path of the
a particles; a saturation current is indeed much easier to obtain when
the field is perpendicular to the radiation than when parallel.

1 Franck and Westphal, Verh. der Deutsch. Phys. Ges., vol. 11, pp. 146 and 276, 1909.
2Millikan and Fletscher, Phys. Reyv., vol. 32, p. 239, 1911, and Phil. Mag., vol. 21,

p. 753, 1911. See also Townsend, Phil. Mag., vol. 22, p. 204, 1911; Franck and West- .

phal, Phil. Mag., vol. 22, p. 547, 1911.
3 Langevin and Salles, Société de chimie physique, February, 1913.
4 Wilson, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 85, p. 285, 1911; Radium, January, 1913.
5 Moulin, Radium, p. 350, 1910.

——
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. 239
VI. PHOTOELECTRIC EFFECT. (HERTZ AND LENARD EFFECTS.)

Light, and especially ultra-violet light, discharges negatively elec-
trified bodies with the production of rays of the same nature as
cathode rays. Under certain circumstances it can directly ionize
gases. The first of these phenomena was discovered by Hertz and
Hallwachs in 1887. The second was announced first by Lenard in
1900. Perhaps on no subject is the literature of the day greater and
more contradictory, so we will note only a few of the recent results
upon which the bulk of the work has been done.

(1) With regard to the Hertz effect, the researches from the start
showed a great complexity of the biicHomenbe of photoelectric
fatigue—that is, the progressive diminution of the effect observed
upon fresh metallic surfaces. According to an important research
by Hallwachs, ozone plays an important part in the phenomenon.
However, other elements enter such as oxidation, the humidity, the
mode of polish of the surface, etc. We are not even sure that the
fatigue is absent ina vacuum. Eugene Bloch? insists that we should
work with an exciting radiation of definite wave-length since the
fatigue varies from one wave-length to another. He also showed
that in certain instances there is an acceleration of the effect which
has been refound by various workers.

A, great many experiments have been made in a vacuum. Some
were undertaken to study the Hertz effect at the rear surface of a
strip traversed by the light, an effect perhaps greater there than at
the front surface (Stohlmann, Kleemann, and others). Other ex-
perimenters have shown a selective effect in the case of certain metals;
for instance, with the alkaline metals, according to Pohl and Pring-
scheim,’ there are maxima of exciting power at wave length 0.300 p.
for sodium, at 0.436 % for potassium, and at 0.890 p for a liquid alloy
of potassium and sodium. The general exciting power increased
regularly toward the smaller wave lengths. Several workers have
also endeavored to extend the photo-electric sensitiveness of photo-
electric cells into the infra-red (Elster and Geitel) or to utilize them
for photophony (Bloch).

However, the greatest effort has been spent in order to find out in
vacuum the variation of the initial velocities of the photo-electric
electrons with the wave length. This problem has a great theoretical
interest, and the simple laws stated by Lenard since 1900 for the
ensemble of radiation emitted should be studied separately for each
wave length of the exciting radiation. According to Lenard, the
total number of electrons emitted is proportional to the intensity of

1 Hallwachs, Annalen der Physik, vol. 23, p. 459, 1907.
2 Bloch, Radium, vol. 23, p. 125, 1910.
Pohl and Pringscheim, Verh. der Deutsch. Phys. Ges., vol. 12, pp. 215, 349, 1910.
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the incident light, but their velocity is independent of it, as well as
of the wave length for any given metal. This odd result does not at
all agree with the quanta hypothesis which, according to Einstein,
leads to a linear variation of the initial energy mv?/2 with the fre-
quency. We may further in our measures replace the initial velocity
by the maximum positive potential V which the metal can take under
the influence of the rays (that is, the potential of the stoppage of the
electrons). The first measures made upon this matter by Laden-
burg?! showed an increase of the initial velocity with the exciting
frequency. Taken up by Ladenburg and Marlay,? Hull,? Hughes,*
Richardson,’ and others, the experiments have confirmed, although
not without disputeand difficulty,the qualitative resultof Ladenburg
and apparently the theoretical law of variation due to Kinstein. Cer-
tain writers contest this last deduction and claim a parabolic in place
of a linear law of variation. Our own unpublished experiments com-
pleted upon this question lead us to reserve our decision, because of
the smallness of the ranges of wave lengths studied by all these
experimenters. It will be necessary to take up with quartz appa-
ratus this question, working with the alkaline metals from the visible
spectrum way up to the extreme ultra-violet. This is the only pro-
cedure which will allow a real experimental test of the theory of
quanta. We will close with the results obtained by Millikan’ and
his pupils, who have found in certain cases abnormally high initial
velocities. It looks as if there might be some experimental error due
to the mode of production of the discharge by the ultra-violet light
and the influence of the electric waves from the source upon the
measuring apparatus.

(2) The discovery of the ionization of gases by ultra-violet light
was made by Lenard in 1900. As the effect was produced across
several centimeters of air and made very great positive and small
negative ions, it was natural to interpret the phenomenon, as did
J. J. Thomson, as an Hertz effect upon the solid or liquid particles
present in the gas. The researches of Langevin and those of Eugene
Bloch ® have shown, indeed, that the greater part of the Lenard effect
is certainly due to this cause.

The Lenard effect upon the gas itself nevertheless does exist. Re-
found by J. J. Thomson® and then more decisively by Palmer,*° it

1 Ladenburg, Phys. Zeitschr., vol. 8, p. 590, 1907.

2 Ladenburg and Markav, Phys. Zeitschr., vol. 9, p. 821, 1908.

8 Hull, Phys. Zeitschr., vol. 10, p. 587.

4 Hughes, Phil. Mag., vol. 21, p. 393, 1911; Proc. Cambr., vol. 16, p. 167, 1911.
5 Richardson, Phil. Mag., vol. 24, pp. 570, 575, 1912.

6 Kuntz, Cornelius, Phys. Review, 1910 and 1913.

7 Millikan and Wright, Phys. Review, January and February, 1911.

8 Bloch, Radium, p. 240, 1908.

® Thomson, Proc. Cambr., voi. 14, p. 417, 1907.

10 Palmer, Nature, vol. 77, p. 582, 1908; Phys. Rev., p. 1, 1911.
DEVELOPMENTS IN ELECTROMAGNETISM—BLOCH. et

has already been considerably studied and shows very different char-
acteristics than those at first attributed to it by Lenard. It seems
to be produced exclusively by the Schumann or extreme ultra-violet
rays of wave length less than 0.180 p. These rays will not pass
through air although they will through fluorite and partly through
quartz. It produces small ions of both signs, neutral centers, large
ions, and ozone. It is extremely sensitive to minute traces of im-
purities in the gas, traces which can not be detected by other means.
It can be distinguished from the Hertz effect and become very much
greater. All these conclusions are drawn from the researches of
Hughes,! Cannegieter,? Lenard and Ramsauer,* and Leon and Eugene
Bloch.t| The latter have shown also that the radiation transmitted
by quartz and coming from a mercury arc ionizes the air feebly in
the neighborhood of the are and seems consequently to emit a small
amount of Schumann rays. In place of the usual source of Schu-
mann rays, a hydrogen tube furnished with quartz windows, Lenard
and Ramsauer used a very powerful spark between electrodes of
aluminum. Then the ionization takes place even through air and
quartz and the experimenters attribute it to rays of wave length
less than 0.1 py, the smallest ultra-violet rays known and which were
discovered by Lymann. As no measure of these wave lengths were
made, it seems as probable that the effect is due to ordinary Schu-
mann rays which have been partially transmitted by media generally
opaque to them because of the great original intensity of the light.
This question remains to be studied as well as the Lenard effect in
general the knowledge of which is yet very limited despite the great
number of interesting problems connected with it.

1 Hughes, Proc. Cambr., vol. 15, p. 483, 1910.

2 Cannegieter, Proc. Amst., p. 1114, 1911.

8’ Lenard and Ramsauer, Sitzungsber. Heidelberg, 1910-1911.

*Leon and Eugene Bloch, Comptes Rendus, vol. 155, pp. 9038, 1076, 1912.

44863°—sm 19183——16
esa dt
age Fak Birk hale
bin

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY.?

By Exinvu THOMSON.

It will be my purpose in the present discourse to outline the gen-
eral nature of wireless transmission and to indicate its relationship
to transmission by wire. It will also be my object to show why the
wireless energy sent out follows the curvature of the earth and to
explain other features which to many have been more or less puz-
zling. In short, I desire to present in simple terms a view of the
nature of such wireless work, so that anyone reasonably informed
about electrical actions can obtain, as it were, a mental picture of
the process. I may here state the fact that perhaps one of the earli-
est experiments bearing on wireless transmission was made in com-
pany with Prof. E. J. Houston, while we were both teachers in the
Central High School in Philadelphia. This old experiment to
which I refer was made about the latter part of 1875, and briefly
described in the Franklin Institute Journal early in 1876. It con-
sisted in using an induction coil which would give a spark length of
several inches, then known as a Ruhmkorff coil, the coil resting on
the lecture table, one terminal of the fine wire or secondary of which
was connected to a water-pipe ground, while the other was con-
nected by a wire 4 or 5 feet long to a large tin vessel supported on a
tall glass jar, insulating the tin vessel from the lecture table. The
coil had an automatic interrupter for the primary circuit, and when
in operation the terminals of the secondary were approached so that
a torrent of white sparks bridged the interval between them, the
gap being about 2 inches or so in length. Figure 1 shows this
arrangement. When the coil was worked in this way, it was found
that a finely sharpened lead pencil approached to incipient contact
with any metallic object—such as door knobs within the room and
outside thereof—would cause a tiny spark to appear at the incipient
contact between the pencil point and the metal. This, of course, .
was not a very delicate detector, but was improved, as in figure 2,
by putting two sharpened points in a dark box, a device due to

1 Lecture by Prof. Thomson, printed after revision by the author, by permission of the
National Electric Light Association, New York,

243
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

Edison. One or both points were adjusted so as to make incipient
contact, and the tiny spark observed between the points was an indi-
cation of a shock, commotion or wave, electrical in its character,
in the ether surrounding the tin vessel mounted on the glass jar.
The tests for detecting the impulses were carried on not only in
rooms on the same floor, but on the floor above and on the floor above
that, and finally at the top of the building, some 90 feet away, in the
astronomical observatory. Metallic pieces, even unconnected to the
ground, would yield tiny sparks, not only in the basement of the
building, but in the highest part, with several floors and walls inter-
vening. I mention this old experiment particularly because it has
in it the elements, of course in a very crude form, of wireless trans-
mission, the wire and tin vessel attached to one terminal of the coil
being a crude antenna with its spark-gap connection to ground, as
afterwards used in
wireless work by Mar-
coni, and it also
shows a rudimentary
receiver or detector,
a metallic body ar-
ranged in connection
with a tiny spark
gap, so that electrical
oscillations in such
body would declare
themselves by a faint
spark at the gap. It
was understood by us
at the time that after
each discharge of the
coil there was, as it were, a shock, or wave in the ether consisting of
a quick reversed electrical condition, and it was even imagined that
there might be in this process the germ of a system of signaling
through space. This old work was almost forgotten when it was
recalled by the later work of Hertz, about 1887, who demonstrated
by suitable electrical apparatus that waves of the general nature of
light or heat could be generated, which waves are transmitted with
the velocity of light, 186,000 miles per second, and that by suit-
able resonators or detectors these waves could be made to declare
themselves by tiny sparks. The Hertzian oscillator was, as it were,
an electrical tuning fork, having an actual rate of vibration peculiar
to itself and dependent on its form and dimensions. It was fed with
energy from an induction coil and across its spark gap an oscillating
discharge took place, which, at each impulse, died out like the dis-
charge of a condenser, but during this, discharge it electrically

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—THOMSON. 245

stressed the ether in one and the other sense, so that an electrical
wave was radiated in certain directions from the oscillator. It was
found that these waves could be refracted, reflected, and polarized,
and, in general, dealt with as extremely coarse light or heat waves.
We shall refer to these, however, farther on. The general result,
however, of the Hertzian experiments was to connect electrical waves
in the ether surrounding the apparatus with the hght and heat
waves and prove the identity of the two kinds of radiation, the
differences being only those of wave length or pitch.

Since the Hertzian waves were sent out from the Hertzian oscil-
lator in substantially straight lines, and since in the early days of
wireless telegraphy it was common to regard wireless waves as of
the same nature or as almost identical with Hertzian waves, the
fact that the wireless waves were found to follow the curvature
of the earth became
a difficulty to be ex- Fig. 4
plained. Speaking FiQ. 3 ee
for myself, I have — iN

sa RUM R BERD MM
never found the diffi- =\! feat | | t Fry lyylty\
culty to exist. There man ea |
is really no reason
why the waves should
not follow the curva-
ture of the earth, as
it will be one of my
purposes to show. We
will, however, ap-
proach the conditions
of wireless somewhat
gradually.

We will first consider an ordinary wire transmission of the sim-
plest type. Let us assume a line of wire, as in figure 3, insulated
and connected to one terminal of the battery while the other terminal
is earthed or grounded. A simple telegraph system on open circuit
would represent this arrangement. The only effect is that the battery
supplies a small charge to the line, producing a potential difference
between the insulated line and the earth, assuming, of course, that
there is no leakage of any kind to disturb the conditions. As soon
as the charge is established in the line at the full potential of the
battery, which, in ordinary cases, would take place within a very
small fraction of a second, a steady or static condition is reached,
which might. be indicated by electrostatic stress lines drawn from the
wire to the ground, as illustrated in figure 3 by the fine dotted lines
connecting the horizontal line to the ground surface below. If the
wire be viewed on end (fig. 4), we must represent these stress lines

246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

as extending out radially from the wire and bending over to meet a
considerable portion of the ground surface below. As this arrange-
ment is constituted, there is no energy transfer and the condition is
static only. If now the far end of the line is earthed, as through an
instrument or device which uses energy, as in figure 5, at the moment
of such connection there would be a lowering of the intensity of the
stress toward the receiving instrument and the line would be dis-
charged were it not for the maintaining action of the battery, which
still keeps up the difference of potential between line and ground. If
the line is without resistance, this potential will have the same value
all along the line, especially if the line is of uniform section and of
uniform distance from the ground. The moment, however, the in-
strument at “I” takes energy from the line a current is found in
the wire and a return in earth, and there is, so to speak, a flow of

energy in the space between the

FiQ. 7. wire and earth and in the ether
—_— surrounding the wire, in the direc-
‘N ie 1 i Pa tion of the arrow—that is, from

the generating end to the receiv-
ing end. Surrounding the wire at

this time there will be a magnetic
field, which may be represented
by whorls or lines of magnetism,

away from the wire in all direc-
tions; and a similar magnetic
effect, of course, is also produced
by the return current in the
earth. But on account of the
conditions of conduction in earth being very devious and irregu-
lar, it would be difficult to map the magnetism generated. The sys-
tem of magnetic whorls so developed on the flow of the current in
the system reaches, for any definite current, a definite density after
a short interval. In other words, the density of the magnetic field
between the wire and the earth increases only up to a certain point.
If the current, however, be doubled in any way, that field is doubled
in density or there are twice as many lines packed in the space around
the wire. If now we took instead of an earth-connected circuit one
in which there are two wires extending from the generating battery
or generator, the conditions will be the same except that the stress
lines will now radiate from each wire and connect the wires by lines
directly between them and by other curved lines outside. Such lines,
or otherwise conceived “ tubes of force,” represent the static field or

Mae so called, wrapped around the

wire like so many hoops of all
sizes (fig. 6) expanding in size
g. 0), exp g

=
WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—THOMSON. 24.7
the density and directions of electrostatic stresses in the electrostatic
field where one wire will be positive while the other is negative. If,
as before, the ends of the wire are free or open-circuited, no energy
is transmitted, and the mere static stress exists. If, however, the
wires are connected through an instrument receiving energy or utiliz-
ing the energy, then the magnetic system is developed, surrounding
each wire and passing between the wires, and on the establishment
of any given current these lines accumulate at a rapid rate until, in a
small fraction of a second usually, a limit is reached. The magnetic
field may then be said to be fully developed. Outside of the pair of
wires the magnetic disturbance extends to very great distances, but
is necessarily weak far away. The magnetic whorls in this case do
not center themselves in circular paths around the wires and at equal
distances therefrom, but between the wires they are more condensed
or pushed toward the wires
themselves—crowded, so to
speak—while outside of the
wires they expand (figs. 8
and 9). It must be remem-
bered that these lines of force
are merely symbols for what
may be likened to a magnetic
atmosphere. They indicate
the density and direction of
certain actions in the ether,
called magnetic. It will be
important to note, both in
wire and wireless transmis- — 6 —
sion, that the energy is trans-

ferred in the surrounding me-

dium. The wire in ordinary wire transmission is, in fact, a sort of
guiding center or core around which this ether disturbance carrying
the energy exists. The wire may be bent or coiled, expanded or con-
tracted without altering the essential nature of the process. So far,
then, ordinary wire transmission is really a case of wireless transmis-
sion, with the wire for a guiding core for the energy (fig. 10).

Tt would take us too far to attempt to explain or theorize on the
modern view of the passage of electrons in the wire forming the
current, and the field they carry with and about them in giving
rise to the stresses in the ether surrounding them. Suffice it to say
that a moving electron must not only be accompanied or surrounded
by the static stress field which it produces in the ether but also by
a magnetic effect representing the energy of motion possessed by it.
When a current which has been started in a circuit reaches a definite
value it may be said to have reached a steady state. It would then

248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

be a continuous current of constant value. Energy can be steadily
extracted from such a system only by introducing some apparatus
connected with the wire which is the guiding core for this energy.

Let us now consider the case of current of a different character, a
fluctuating—or better, an alternating current. Let us substitute for
the battery an alternating current generator, and assume a single
wire with an earth or wire return, as in figures 8 and 5. Here the
wire merely becomes positive and negative alternately, for the circuit
is incomplete or unconnected as a circuit, and the stress lines from
wire to earth or to other wires reverse periodically their direction
plus to minus and minus to plus. This is true, of course, whether
the earth be replaced by a second wire or whether three or more wires
be involved, as in a three-phase alternating current circuit. By
connecting any two of the wires through an energy-receiving ap-

paratus R. (fig. 11), the same ae-
Fig. I. tion that takes place with the
continuous current may be repro-
duced except that the energy now
rg comes in waves and is not a con-
tinuous flow. In ordinary cases
there are 60 complete waves or
complete changes from plus to
minus and back to plus in each
second, and the system is then
called one of 60-cycle frequency.
A further important difference is
to be noted between the alternat-
ing-current condition and _ the
continuous. The action in the
ether around and between the
Wires is now in the form of waves, both magnetic and electrostatic.
Between wires there is an increase of electrostatic stress to a maxi-
mum, a diminution to zero, a reversal, etc. The magnetic field
also rises, falls, reverses, and so on synchronously. The condition
is no longer static, the medium around the wires is in a dynamic
state and it is now possible to abstract energy steadily from it
without actually diverting current from the line. We can, in fact,
by such a system produce in neighboring conductors similar disturb-
ances or currents, and along with these disturbances we may deliver
energy.

The alternating-current transformer is then merely a device for
bringing two or more circuits together as near as possible and en-
hancing the magnetic values which would normally exist around
such circuits by the addition of an iron atmosphere, the iron core,
so that the greatest possible transfer of energy from one (the pri-

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—-THOMSON. 249

mary circuit) to the other (the secondary circuit) may be accom-
plished. But in the wire itself, which leads from an alternating-
current source, since there is an action called a current which changes,
pulsates, or alternates, we have also around the wire core waves in
the ether which, in fact, spread to very great distances; some small
portion of the energy of each impulse not returning to the system,
but passing outward into space as radiated energy.

This radiation may be a very small amount per cycle, especially
where the outgoing and return wires are near together and parallel,
and with low frequencies, such as 60 cycles, on account of the low
number of waves per second and the low speed or rate of change in
the fields surrounding the wire, the amount of energy carried off by
free radiation into space is indeed negligible. But if we raise the
frequency we raise the amount of energy which can be radiated pro-
portionately to the number of waves per second, and we also make
the rate of change higher and the wave slopes steeper, so that
as the frequency rises the radiation factor becomes more and more
important in dissipating the energy of the system. It will be noticed,
however, that such energy is not directed energy. It is diffused
through space around the electric system at work and passes off to
illimitable distances. Since these impulses in the wire, the electrical
waves sent along the wire (with the wire as a guiding core), can at
the maximum move with the speed of hght—186,000 miles per sec-
ond—it follows that if the line is sufficiently long or the transmis-
sion sufficiently extended or the path of radiation sufficiently distant
the wave stresses or fields or currents can exist at different parts of
the system in phases either much displaced or entirely opposite.
This may be rendered clear by stating that while one portion of a
very long line might be positive to earth another portion half a
wave length distant from the first along the same line would be
negative to earth (fig. 12). In other words, there may exist upon
the system at the same instant a succession of waves in opposite
phase. Just as in vibrating strings in musical instruments or vibrat-
ing columns of air in organ pipes there are stationary waves, nodes,
and internodes, so in electrical systems in vibration there can be
nodes and internodes if the conditions are selected for obtaining that
effect. Here the dotted vertical line indicates the nodes of the
waves. We may thus have so-called stationary electric waves
(Gipy12').

We find that on raising the frequency of an alternating-current
system from, say, 60 cycles, the ordinary frequency, to 600 cycles, an
effect which at first was hardly detectable now becomes important.
It is the so-called “skin effect” whereby the current in a wire cir-
euit tends to concentrate itself on the outer skin of the conducting
wire, neglecting the inner copper, so that the inner core of the wire
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

might be left out. Consider the frequency still further raised, say,
to 6,000 cycles, this “skin effect” of the conductor still further in-
creases until the copper in the interior of a circular wire of a con-
siderable size is now quite useless, and to get the advantage of such
copper we must, as it were, take it out or spread it in a number of
parallel wires spaced apart, or make the metal of the conductor
in the form of a long sheet or in the shape of a thin tube or a cage
of wires (fig. 13). This, in electrical terms, improves the con-
ductivity and reduces the opposition due to self-induction; the in-
ductance counter E M F. Let now the frequency be still further
increased to tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of cycles
per second; then our conductor must necessarily become a still

thinner or a still more extended sheet.
At the same time, if there are considerable differences of potential
between the conductors

Fig.13. thus arranged, the ra-

° o 8 diation factor may at

: i 7 last become very im-

Q : C) ‘3 Ke portant, so that if the
; «ae parts of the circuit are

Fig. 14. far apart, free radia-

tion into space may
dispose of a large frac-
tion of the energy sent
out. In the Hertzian
oscillator, deducting
that lost in the spark
gap, practically the
whole of the remain-
ing energy supplied is
radiated into space.
The wave frequency may be very many millions per second, and the
waves produced are in the nature of coarse light and heat waves.
Figure 14 exemplifies diagrammatically the fact that with very high
frequency waves a conductor carrying such waves will have surround-
ing it, if the space is unrestricted, magnetic systems of lines reversed
in direction with nodes between, the distance apart of these waves or
nodes being determined by the frequency in relation to the velocity
of light, each complete wave outside the wire occupying a length
equal to the velocity of light, 186,000 miles per second, divided by
the wave length or frequency.

Figures 15 and 16 represent forms of Hertzian oscillator, consist-
ing of plates or spheres a } of metal, separated by a small spark gap
and charged in any suitable way, plus and minus with respect to
each other, and allowed to discharge across the gap. The charges
are then interchanged between a@ and 6 at a very high rate,

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—THOMSON. 251

though the waves decay rapidly, and the system vibrates only
- for a short time or until the energy of the charge is dissipated

in ether waves of exceeding high pitch into the surrounding me-
dium. Were there no energy lost in the gap itself for forming the
spark, and if the metal were a perfect conductor, the full amount
of energy represented by any initial charge would be dissipated in
the ether in these ether waves. Marconi, however, in his develop-
ment of wireless telegraphy did not use the complete Hertzian oscil-
lator. In setting up his transmitting antenna he took substantially
half an oscillator, the other half being, so to speak, a phantom—the
reflected image of the first half, as it were, in the surface of the
earth, generally the sea surface. It would be represented by taking
an extended copper sheet or surface coated with a fairly good con-
ductor to represent the earth’s surface and mounting above it, but
insulated from it, a metal body, such as a vertical rod, which could
be charged and which
could discharge to the
sheet through a small
air gap. In this ar-
rangement not only
would waves be sent
out into the surround-
ing ether space, but

there would be cur- FiQ. 2A.

rent traversing the

sheet as waves of cur- ~~ a Bhi

rent around the spot “&Ss\\\ if Ge ma = Z
where the discharge i [1 ges Se
of the insulated body Wi

took place. In fact, I + + rials Hy Me
think it would be pos-

sible to represent experimentally a Seats wireless system with a
diminutive antenna to represent the transmitting station, and ex-
tended copper sheet to represent the earth’s surface, and with investi-
gating or receiving antenne set up here and there or moved from
point to point on the extended surface.

Here, although the disturbance and the energy conveyance is in
the ether around the antenna (or the part representing the half of
the Hertzian oscillator), the energy is guided in its direction by the
current in the sheet representing the surface of the sea, just as in
the wire transmission the energy is guided by the wire as a core.
On account of the enormous extent of the earth’s sea surface, there
is no need of a return circuit. The energy sent out moves in all
directions, guided by the conducting water surface or land surface,
as the case may be. There will necessarily be a rapid attenuation
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of the energy as it leaves the sending or transmitting antenna and
spreads out to fill a wider and wider space around it. The higher
the sending antenna the greater the distance which can be reached
before the attenuation is too great for imparting signals.

Let us consider for a moment by the aid of a figure the actions
which must occur in wireless transmission on the sending out of
energy from the transmitting antenna. Referring to figure 17, we
will represent by e—e the surface of the earth as if it were flat, and
for moderate distances this will be substantially the case. We will
erect on that surface a tall mast A of conducting wire or wires which,
at the top, shall have an extension to increase its capacity. This
might be a large ball of sheet metal. Usually, for construction to be
practicable, it is a set of wires—a sort of cage or a skeleton body.
Now, by any system, inductively, conductively, or otherwise, or by
what is known as close or loose inductive coupling or what not (figs. 18,

19, 20) we cause elec-

Fig 18. Fig. 19. Fig. 20. tric disturbances, such
that at one instant the
top of the antenna be-
comes positive and at
the next instant nega-
tive, many thousands—
even hundreds of thou-
sands—of times per
second. Inotherwords,
we impress a high-fre-
quency wave upon this
vertical mast. We will
try to present an in-
stantaneous picture or form an instantaneous image of bans: the
condition is at the beginning of the process.

Let us suppose that the charge is positive at the top, and necessarily
the surface below and surrounding the mast will be negative. Elec-
trostatic lines will extend from the mast, and particularly from the
expansion at the top down to the earth’s surface in all directions
around the antenna, as in the figure. The medium around the
antenna will be stressed electrostatically. This would be all, pro-
vided the charges were stationary, but the system we are considering
is dynamic. The plus charge is replaced by a minus charge at the
top, and a current of a high frequency runs up and down the antenna,
but so also does this current extend into the sea radially from the
foot of the antenna, replacing the negatively charged area by a posi-
tively charged zone, as it were, while the top of the antenna is now
negative where it was formerly positive. (Fig. 21 A (p. 251), one
side only shown, and fig. 21 B, in plan.)

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY——-THOMSON. ONS

As this action goes on, however, the zone of charged surface
widens, and ether waves are, so to speak, detached from the antenna,
and electrostatic lines join now through the air or ether above the
successive zones which surround the antenna as great circles or flat
rings of the sea surface. A plus area is followed by a minus, a minus
by a plus, etc., and to indicate the effect in the space above, we draw
lines which follow these areas, extending up into the ether above the
surface, but moving away from the antenna with the velocity of light.
The moving charges in the sea surface represent radial currents
which are in opposite phase at different portions of the sea surface,
and spreading at 186,000 miles per second, and these currents neces-
sarily generate magnetism or lines of magnetic force in the medium
directly above them. These lines extend around in zones with dimin-
ishing intensity upward from the sea surface as the distance from the
surface increases. Even within the
water itself a similar action, but
more restricted, takes place. The
charges in the water are connected
by electrostatic stress lines, and the
compensating magnetic field fol-
lows the current, but this “ under
water” effect does not concern us,
as what we work with is the energy
conveyed in the space above the
sea, the other not being so easily
recoverable.

The system as thus far consti-
tuted is merely an arrangement for ek
delivering energy in high-frequency eee
waves to the widespread medium
around the antenna. ‘There is no selective action whereby it is
focused anywhere—it is as a “voice crying in the wilderness.” It
can be picked up or recognized in any direction by anyone who is
within range. If, now, we are to receive signals such as are made
by interrupting or disturbing at intervals this system of radiation
of energy, as in ordinary telegraphy, we must set up somewhere a
receiving apparatus which will enable us to pick up whatever small
fraction of the energy reaches it and, if possible, a sufficient fraction
of such energy for the recognition of the signals. If the signal can
be recognized—no matter how small the fraction of the energy sent
out is which we collect at the receiving station—the system succeeds.
There is no question of efficient transmission, as there is in the ordi-
nary power-transmission systems. The latter are for the transmis-
sion of energy with as little loss as possible, the former for the trans-
mission of signals only.

254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

In the antenna transmission just considered it is assumed that the
surface of the earth is, generally speaking, a good electric conductor.
The surface of the sea is sufficiently good. Dry land surface, how-
ever, is not a good conducting sheet, and even though moist it is
generally so irregularly conducting that obliteration of the waves
and loss or absorption of the energy must necessarily occur. Obsta-
cles, such as dry rock ranges, may absolutely prevent the waves from
passing over them. It must be borne in mind that these waves have
no inertia, as such, and that the energy must be guided to its desti-
nation by a conducting sheet. This calls to mind the efforts that
were made to connect Lynn and Schenectady by a wireless system,
but without success. Occasionally signals were received, but in gen-
eral they were too indistinct to be recognized. It is more than
probable that the dry rock ranges of the Berkshires in western
Massachusetts were sufficient of an obstacle to prevent the energy of
the waves getting across them.

It is also to be questioned whether there may not be another action
which interferes with and disturbs the integrity of the waves. It is
conceivable that waves may follow a water surface, even around a
eape, and that a portion of the energy may take a short cut across
the land of the cape. If this be so, the longer course would be
around the cape, the shorter course across the land. The wave
lengths would remain the same, and an out-of-phase relation or
interference phenomenon would take place to a greater or less extent.

It is manifestly necessary that the energy, by whatever course it fol-_

lows, shall reach the receiving apparatus in phase.

Let us now consider for a moment the conditions at great dis-
tances over theearth’s surface. At moderate distances from the trans-
mitting antenna the surface may be considered as flat. _The conducting
sheet guiding the energy is flat or plane, but at great distances the
curvature of the earth’s surface becomes an important factor. Fora
time there was a great deal of discussion as to the reason why the energy
in the wireless transmission seemed actually to follow the curvature of
the earth, instead of going straight away, as in the case of Hertzian or
heat and light waves. If the waves had been generated by a large
Hertzian oscillator, it would not be possible for them to so follow
the earth’s curvature, but inasmuch as they are in wireless work
produced and, as it were, positioned upon a conducting sheet (the
sea surface), then it follows that the energy must be guided by that
conducting sheet or surface, regardless of its extent or its curvature.
IT have never been able to understand why so much discussion has
been needed to clear up this point. Wireless waves have no inertia—
they follow the course of the charges which produce the stress and
of the magnetic field, due to these charges in motion. These charges
in motion are the currents in the conducting sheet, which may or

i
WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—-THOMSON. 255

may not be curved. In the curved surface of the ocean the zones of
charge continually expanding, plus and minus, respectively, are still
connected by the electrostatic lines above them, and the moving
charges still generate the same magnetic field as they traverse radi-
ally or outwardly in the curved instead of the plane sheet (fig. 22),
and this curved conductor still guides the energy, just as the wire
does in ordinary transmission. It would seem, if this is the correct
view, that at a distance comparable with that of a quadrant of the
earth’s circumference the form of the wave would be such as to cause
the stress lines to lean backward with respect to the surface, tending
to keep their original relation to the transmitting antenna as they
were detached therefrom (fig. 22, at L). This assumes that the
velocity of transmission is the same as that of the speed of light,
both for the currents in the sea and for the stresses above it.

Marconi’s success as a wireless pioneer depended largely upon the
choice of a sufficiently sensitive receiver. Two elements are necessary
in the receiver. First, a conducting structure which gathers up the
energy from the medium, the ether, above the earth’s surface. The
other element is a sufficiently delicate means for detecting the slightest
changes of electrical condition, not only actuated by what little
energy is received, but so modifying it that it can operate a signal
which can be seen or heard. Usually the receiving antenna is a ver-
tical conducting mast or cage, like the sending antenna. In fact,
the functions of sending and receiving are interchangeably used on
the same structure; the same antenna may be at one time used for
transmitting and at another time for receiving.

The receiving antenna (fig. 22) serves to relieve the electrostatic
stress in its vicinity, much as a lightning rod may act to relieve
cloud to earth stresses. If its direction could be made to follow or
be parallel to the actual course of the transmitted lines in the space
near it, it would be most effective, and if, further, it could extend
sidewise over a considerable extent of the wave front, it would gather
up more energy. These conditions, however, can at best be only ap-
proximately met. If the receiving antenna were of such a character
as to have no oscillation rate of its own (a damped circuit) it would
recelve energy in a small amount from the transmitting antenna
independent of the frequency, but as this would in most cases be far
from sufficient, it is desirable to accumulate energy in the receiver
from a train of waves at a definite rate. To do this the principle of
syntony or tuning is brought in. Everyone is familiar with the two
tuning forks, where one is sounded and the other is placed at a dis-
tance away. If the two forks are not in harmony, no effect of the
one fork on the other follows, but if they are accurately tuned in
unison, the sound of one fork at a considerable distance from the
other starts the second in vibration and produces an audible sound
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

from it. The second fork is, in fact, a structure particularly well
adapted to gather up the energy of the sound waves which reach it,
receiving from each wave a small portion of energy and accumulating
such energy until the fork itself is brought into palpable vibration.
By applying this principle in wireless telegraphy—that is, by causing
the rate of vibration or frequency of the electrical waves to be the
same in the transmission and in the receiving antenne systems, con-
structing both to possess a normal rate as if they were to be electrical
tuning forks of the same pitch—the amplitude of the received im-
pulses is so greatly increased that signal strength is reached where
otherwise failure would have resulted. The one thing which has
characterized the more recent advances in wireless telegraphy has
been the accuracy of tuning and the removal of disturbing influences
which would interfere with the tuning.
Formerly the transmitting circuit was excited by means which
tended to disturb the actual normal rate. If excited inductively, the
inducing or primary
circuit had a rate of
its own, which was
apt to interfere with —
that of the vibrating
.antenna system.
However, what is
known as loose coup-
ling (fig. 20), in-
stead of close coup-
ling (fig. 19), to the
primary or exciting
circuit causes such
confusion of rates to be nearly negligible if, particularly in the
exciting circuit, the current is well damped, as it is termed, or con-
fined to a single brief impulse as far as possible. In such case the
antenna circuit, in transmitting, acts as if it were a bell struck with
a sudden quick blow, and it vibrates at its own rate without dis-
turbance or interference. At the receiving end (and there may be,
of course, many receivers in the space around the transmitting
antenna), the “listening-in ” process consists in adjusting the rate of
vibration of the receiving circuit by variable condensers or induc-
tances, so that the maximum loudness of the received signals is at-
tained. The two systems, transmitting and receiving, are then in tune.
Accuracy of tuning is evidently very important if stations are to
be simultaneously transmitting when near together, as only in that
way can one station send out energy without interfering with the
other; the particular receiver for which the signals are intended be-
ing tuned for the particular antenna sending these signals. In spite

THOMSON. 257

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY

of the accuracy of tuning, however, high-power stations may, in fact,
cause high frequency waves of high potential in all surrounding wire
or metal structures if near enough. Burn outs, or even fires, may
occur from this cause. Hence it is desirable that high-power sending
stations should be well removed from centers of population where
there are electric circuits and electrical apparatus likely to be inter-
fered with or injured.

It may be here pointed out that de limit of potential which is
available in wireless transmission is the same as that of long distance
transmission by wire and for the same cause. Naturally, if the po-
tential on the sending antenna can be raised, the amount of energy
which can be put into the wave impulses will be increased, but there
comes a time when an increase of potential on the wires of the antenna
gives rise to a corona loss—much as the increase of potential in wire
transmission produces a corona loss. The conductors of the system,
in such a case, are surrounded by a blue discharge which is even
visible at night and which frequently can be heard. When this con-
dition is reached every further increase of potential simply increases
the corona loss without adding correspondingly to the energy trans-
mission. Just as in wire transmission it can be avoided by increas-
ing the diameter of the conductors, so in wireless work it could be
avoided by constructing the antenna system of hollow tubes with
smooth exteriors, and the imagination may be permitted to depict a
sending tower of polished metal surmounted by a sphere of similar
material and worked at millions of volts. No limit can be set to the
amount of energy which might thus be radiated, and no limit as yet
can be set to the distance around the earth to which signals might
be sent by such means.

One curious fact which has been developed in the work of wireless
signaling is that daylight, especially sunlight, is very detrimental to
transmission as compared with the night. That is to say, if the wire-
less waves are to traverse the sea surface in sunshine, the chance of
receiving them in sufficient force to produce signals at great distances
is far less than when they are sent at night. It is probable that this
difference is not due to any single cause—it may be the effect of a
combination of causes. It is a notable fact, too, that this difference
between the effectiveness of daylight transmission and night trans-
mission is accentuated at the higher frequencies.

Though the cause is still somewhat obscure, we may venture a
suggestion or hypothesis which may have a bearing on the case.
Referring to figure 23, we have tried to show the condition. The
electrostatic field at the water surface at the same instant is as in
figure 21 produced in zones around the antenna 4, spreading with
upproximately the speed of light. It is well known that under the

44863°—sm 19183——17
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

action of the violet and ultra-violet rays of light any surface, having
a negative charge will leak its charge and ionize the air near it.
This may occur in sunlight over such areas as are marked minus in
ithe figures, and the several minus signs would mark or indicate air
ionized and negatively electrified over the negatively charged zones.
No action would be expected over the positive areas or zones. But
ihe zones are not stationary; they are widening very rapidly, so
that a positive zone or zones takes the place of negative so far as
any location is concerned. This may be expressed by saying that
the water surface which at one instant was negative and gave out
negative ions under the influence of light would, in an exceedingly
emall fraction of a second and before those ions could get away from
electric contact with such surface, become positive and the free
ions would now return and neutralize a portion of the positive charge.
Thus the negative zones or wave elements would lose part of their

charge to ionize air,
Fig. 23. and the positive waves
would be weakened by
such negative leak
neutralizing them in
part. This action,
however feeble at each
wave, would be con-
tinuous over hun-
Fig. 24. - dreds if not thou-
sands of miles, and
continuously damp out
the widening system
of waves. The effect
would be less marked
with low frequency
waves, as there would be a proportionately less number of oppor-
tunities for this neutralization per second. Besides, with the lower
frequency there is more time for the separation of the negative ions
to such distance from the water surface that they do not combine with
the positive charges; being, as it were, better insulated from them or
diffused in the air stratum.

In figure 24 an attempt is made to picture this action of attenua-
{ion in the presence of light. The negative charges in the air layer,
as in figure 23, have no positive charges under them, the encircling
lines about the ++ and — signs indicating combination and neutraliza-
tion.

When the wireless waves reach the receiving antenna, owing to at-
ienuation from spreading or loss as above, they are very feeble. The

y
if
Dy

|

WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY—-THOMSON. 259

daylight effect, as pointed out by Fessenden, is much less with the
lower frequencies, such as 100,000 per second as compared with
600,000 or 800,000 waves. Consequently there is not the same great
difference in strength of signals between night and day work with
such lower frequencies. Moreover, frequencies of 100,000 or even
200,000 are capable of being generated directly by high-speed high-
frequency dynamos with the added advantage that the waves sent
out are maintained at their full amplitude and are not, as with waves
produced by spark discharges, subject to damping or decay from
maximum to zero after a few oscillations.

Whatever the nature of the waves sent out, there is in all cases the
need of an exceedingly sensitive apparatus for converting the slight
electric effects upon the receiving antenna into signals. The origi-
nal apparatus of Marconi included the Branly coherer, used by
Lodge in Hertzian wave transmission as a detector. It is indicated
in figure 26 at A’, with its battery and sounder magnet J/. The re-
ceiving antenna discharge in passing to earth broke down the in-
sulation of the filings of the coherer, so that the local battery cur-
rent could pass in the
circuit, including a mag- Fig. 25. Fig 26. Fig. 27
net M/ and so record the |
signal. The liquid bar-
retter of Fessenden, the |
various forms of recti-
fying crystal detectors
and magnetic detectors, cs
have been extensively
used. Our time does not
permit a detailed de-
scription. Figure 25 in-
dicates at C a crystal detector rectifying the impulses from antenna
A so as to work a high-resistance telephone receiver 7’, to which the
operator listens. [igure 27 shows the same apparatus, but connected
inductively to the antenna circuit by a transformer.
reaching the telephone 7’ was such as to produce a low note, the
signals were easily drowned by extraneous noises or induced effects.
He found that the human ear reached a maximum of sensitiveness
at about 900 waves of sound per second, so that the signals were
heard distinctly when otherwise they would have been missed. This
is the meaning of the substitution of dynamos of about 500 eycles for
exciting the wireless antenna in place of the ordinary machines of
lower frequency.

The problem of wireless telephony: has attracted attention for a

number of years past. I well remember witnessing some of the

260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

earlier work of Fessenden in this fascinating field, in which he was
pioneer. The wireless telephone speech was free from all disturbing
noises and interferences so common on ordinary telephone lines.
Briefly, such telephony depends on the ability to control the voice
waves and vary in accordance therewith the energy given out by the
transmitting antenna and to do this with a fairly large output of
energy.

By employing a method I described about 1892, it is possible to
generate a continuous wave train by shunting a direct current are
with a capacity (condenser) in series with an inductance, the fre-
quency rate depending on the electrical constants of these parts of
the apparatus. This system, which was the subject of the United
States patent taken out by me in the early nineties, has been vari-
ously called the Duddell singing arc, or later the Poulsen arc. Poul-
sen employed it with modifications in his system of wireless tel-
ephony. Long before this work of Poulsen, Fessenden had used a
high-frequency dynamo for securing the continuous train needed.
A suitable microphone transmitter was made to so alter the rela-
tions of the waves in transmitting and receiving antenne, that voice
waves could be received in an ordinary telephone connected with the
recelving antenna system.

Much progress has been made in this department of wireless work,
and such telephony between Europe and America may yet become
practicable. Methods are being worked out whereby it may be
possible to mold outputs of many kilowatts of energy so as to have
them vary with the voice waves, and when this is done many prob-
lems, the solution of which now seems remote, may become solved
and the results prove of great practical value. It was not, however,
my intention to devote time to these later researches, but to endeavor
to present to the mind’s eye a view of the nature of wireléss trans-
mission which should show the similarities to ordinary transmission
by wire and also the differences. Furthermore, I hope I have shown
it to be evident that future transmission of energy at high efficiencies
will still demand the wire core for guiding that energy to its
destination.
OIL FILMS ON WATER AND ON MERCURY:.!

By HENRI DEVAUX,

Professor on the Faculty of Sciences. at Bordeaux.’

[With 7 plates. ]

Certain phenomena of daily observation are of great interest to
the physicist. Especially so is the expansion of oil over the sur-
face of water or of mercury. I have studied this matter for a long
while and from all my observations several unexpected facts stand
out.

Films of oil tell us with the greatest nicety of the discontinuity
of matter, and the dimensions of molecules. They also give us val-
uable information as to the field of molecular action. For our
observations we will find that there is no need of complicated ap-
paratus; basins, paper, threads of glass, a pipette, a sieve with some
tale powder, and finally some oil and benzole suffice for the greater
part of the experiments. As to measuring instruments, a double
decimeter will do, although its divisions be a million times greater
than the diameter of the molecules. Though it seems like measuring
microbes with a surveyor’s chain, we will see that the measures not
only can be made but made with great precision, because of a very
remarkable peculiarity of films of the thickness of one molecule.
We will yet further see that the smallest variation in homogeneity
engenders considerable differences in the surface tensions, causing
the molecules to become exactly equidistant.

1 Translated by permission from Revue générale des Sciences pures et appliquées, Paris,
24th year, No. 4, Feb. 28, 1913.

2This article gives a summary of all my researches upon oil films published since
1903; it includes also several new results relating especially to films on mercury and
the interpretation of certain observed facts with them. The greater part of the figures
have not before been published. The following is a bibliography of my earlier researches :
Recherches sur les lames trés minces, liquides ou solides (Proc.-verb. Soc. Se. Phys. de
Bordeaux, Noy., 1903); Membranes de coagulation par simple contact de l’albumine
avec l’eau (1. c., Jan., 1904) ; Comparaison de l’épaisseur critique des lames trés minces
avec le diamétre théorique de la molécule (1. c., Apr., 1904) ; De l’épaisseur critique des
Solides et des liquides réduits en lames trés minces (Bull. des séances de la Soc. france.
de Phys., p. 24, 1904) ; Recherches sur les lames d’huile étendues sur l’eau (J. de Phys.,
Sept., 1912, p. 699); Sur un procédé de fixation des figures d’évolution de Vhuile sur
Yeau et sur le mercure (Journ. de Phys., Oct., 1912). Several physicists have honored
me by taking an interest for several years in my researches into molecular physics which
has greatly encouraged me in carrying them out. I especially wish to mention M. Ch. Ed.
Guillaume, president of the Société de Physique and M. M. Brillouin, professor at the
Collége de France.

261
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

I. THE LIMIT OF THE HXPANSION OF OIL OVER WATER.

We will first look at an experiment of elementary simplicity yet
fundamental. Let us pour some water into a photographic tray
and then remove all the impurities from the surface by placing
upon it just a sheet of thin paper. Then I scatter on the surface
a little tale powder and place upon it a trace of oil by means of a
very fine capillary tube. The oil spreads out rapidly from the tale in
a circle, since the normal surface tension of the water is considerably
lowered. But if there is very little oil, such as the capillary will

take up by just touching the stopple of the bottle, the expansion stops

suddenly, so that we have a circle of oil surrounded by free water.

Yet is the water really free? Perhaps there are traces of impuri-
ties which stop the extension of the oil. This is not the case.

Let us touch with a trace of oil another point distant from the first
one touched; a new circle forms and extends outward from the tale,
but the first one is in no way affected. No equilibrating impurity
exists outside of the first circle, otherwise its surface would have
been deformed and diminished. There is therefore a real limit to
the extension of oil upon water. And when that limit is reached
the surface tension is both that of pure water and of oiled water.

Let us throw upon this water some grains of camphor dust. At
once we see the grains in lively motion, but everywhere with appar-
ently the same speed whether within or without the oiled region.

We may proceed differently. First spread over the water a sheet
of oil, powder it, and then try to enlarge a little portion of the oil
film by means of a strip of paper placed across it and over the edge
of this dish. At once the whole surface is covered, since the layer
of oil was somewhat thick. But there always comes a time when the
extension stops; the oiled region marked by the tale remains behind,
although there is a surface of water free from both tale and oil.
The limit is extremely clean cut and we have side by side two sur-
faces with the same surface tension—one of free water, the other of
oiled water at its maximum extension.’

Tf at this moment a little camphor dust is scattered on the surface,
the grains will be seen in active motion. In getting out of the way
of the tale they act like little tadpoles. If the surface is reduced to
one-half all motion stops suddenly and the tale gathers around each
particle of camphor. We may put upon the water a little tin boat

1In 1891, Mlle. Pockel pointed out to Lord Rayleigh in a letter published in Nature
(English) on the 12th of March, p. 457, some experiments relating to these facts. In
enlarging progressively a surface of oil upon water or of water soiled with any other
impurity, the tension of that surface varies continuously (abnormal condition) ; it in-
creases slowly at first, then very rapidly, and reaches a maximum. Any further extension
from the maximum point leaves the tension invariable (normal condition). If Mlle.
Pockel had scattered an inert powder upon that surface to render it visible, she would
have realized that, as soon as the maximum is reached, the oil would extend no further.

a

=

OIL FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY—DEVAUX. 2638

such as I devised in 1888,1 and which is shown full size in figure 1. A
little fragment of camphor is stuck with wax in a notch in its rear.
A little mast bearing a streamer is fixed in the middle. This little
boat, placed upon the water, moves rapidly and continuously so as to
be seen from all parts of a room (pl. 1).

T used this device the 19th of April, 1912, in Paris before the So-
ciété de Physique. Placed at first upon water with a film of oil at
its maximum extension it traveled just as on pure water, leaving in
its rear a large wake; the tale was thrown out with a marked vibra-
tion whenever it came in contact with the camphor, just as if the
camphor corresponded to the propeller of the boat. I diminished
the surface. At once the wake became smaller. The boat slowed up.
I made the surface yet smaller. The boat stopped. I increased the
surface, the boat again moved.

We may thus, by the simple movement of a capillary barrier (a
strip of paper), show to a whole audience the effect of
sudden and considerable changes which the surface ten-
sion of water undergoes when covered with a film of
oil of the critical thickness. It is a very simple experi-
ment and very effective. ‘Therefore it is particularly
interesting to know what thickness the film of oi] must
have at this remarkable phase.

II. THE THICKNESS AT MAXIMUM EXTENSION. ci

(1) Ef eperimental measures.—Lord Rayleigh, in his — yy¢1-camphor
admirable experiments of 1890, tried to find what is the —-» oat (natural

ate E : size); c, grain of
minimum quantity of oil necessary to stop the move- crete the

ment of the camphor? and found an extremely small _ stern: m, mast
value, a thickness of about 1.6 yy. In 1891 he published ga ih

the letter of Mlle. Pockel, which we have just mentioned, and in the
following year * showed the stopping of the movements of the cam-
phor by a greasy body is due, as the law discovered by Mlle. Pockel
led him to see, to a sudden fall in the surface tension of water when
the grease layer has the right thickness. In 1899 he published a
curve showing the relation between the surface tension and the quan-

tity of oil* and showed that the proportion of oil when the surface

1 See La Nature, April, 1888.

2 Proceedings of the Royal Society, 47, Mar. 27, 1890. A French translation of the
article will be found in Conférences et allocutions de Sir William Thomson (Lord Ray-
leigh), translated by Lugol (18938), p. 48.

3 Philosophical Magazine, 33, p. 366, 1892.

4Philosophical Magazine, 47 and 48, 1899. In obtaining this remarkable curve, Lord
Rayleigh appears to have supposed implicitly that the oil on the water always forms
a continuous and homogeneous film, even when its surface is much diminished; for ex-
ample when he gets the quotient of the weight of oil by the surface occupied. This is
proper only when the diminishing of the surface is small, say in the ratio of 1 to 1.3.
Beyond this limit this process is in error, for the surface begins to assume a globular
form, finally becoming a veritable mass of foam. We will speak of this later on,
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tension of the water begins to fall is about one-half that at which the
camphor movements stopped. The thickness is therefore 1.6/2 or
0.8 pu. But Lord Rayleigh gives it as simply 1 py.

We may obtain a yet greater precision by a method using drops
of a standard solution of oil in a volatile solvent. I prepare a
standard solution of oil in pure benzole. I use a solution containing
exactly 1 cu. cm. of pure oleine (trioleate of glycerin) per 1,000
cu. em. of benzole and a pipette giving 50 drops of this solution per
cubie centimeter. Thus a drop contains sp¢p, of a cubic centimeter
of oil, and I place two of these drops upon the water. As soon as they
touch the water, the drops spread over the whole surface; the evapora-
tion of the benzole is almost instantaneous and leaves a residue of oleine
equal to sp255 or 400X10-7 cu. cm. Earlier measures showed me
that this quantity of oil could not cover all the surface of the tray

p P

Fig. 2. Fig. 3.

Figs. 2, 3.—Arrangement for measuring the limiting thickness of a film of
oil; H, film of oil; H, free water; 7'7’, barrier of powdered tale; BB”,
band of paper.

(625 sq. cm.). I blow upon it to gather the invisible film of oil at
the farther end of the tray and then scatter upon the nearer end a
light veil of powder with the sieve. The tale thus falls upon the
free surface of water / (fig. 2); it scatters, carried by my blowing,
but! you see it stops abruptly along the barrier 77’, which though
invisible was sharp, and marks the edge of the oil film H. The
stoppage is of striking sharpness.

I now apply to the portion of water uncovered with oil a band of
paper BB’ (fig. 3), m order to have a straight capillary border. I
now make this barrier approach gently the border of tale which
straightens, as is indicated in the figure.’ If the barrier is moved a
little farther, the tale grains just at the limit of the oil, and more or
less distant from each other because they are slightly oily, we see

1TIt is yet better to collect the tale scattered upon the free surface by the band of
paper itself. :
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux. PLATE 1.

BOAT EN ROUTE IN BLACK TRAY ON WATER POWDERED WITH TALC.

A large wake of camphored water free from tale is very visible atthe rear of the boat. The
operator contracts or expands the free surface by changing the position of the strip of
paper placed across the tray.
OIL. FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY—DEVAUX, 265

undergo an abrupt closing up between the oil and the paper. Retreat
the barrier, and all at once the same grains become free, again floating
freely side by side. By means of these sudden changes and by mov-
ing the paper slightly back and forth, I can accurately, within a few
millimeters, find the limit at which the oil is just slightly contracted,
that is at the place where there is the first appearance of change in
the tension. At this place I make my measure, determining once for
all by my double decimeter rule the length of the film of oil.

(2) Results.—We thus get the area of the mean surface covered
by the film. In the experiment made the 18th of April, 1912, it was
363.71 square centimeters. Now, this was produced by two drops of
the oil solution; that is, by 400X107 cubic centimeters of oil. The
thickness of the film was therefore:

V_ 400X107
Bit abave

=1.10 pp

with an approximation between 1.04 and 1.15 py.

We can then state from this that the thinnest film of oil which
can exist upon water is one and one-tenth millionths of a millimeter.
This thickness, almost identical with that found by Lord Rayleigh,
is remarkably small. A simple comparison will give us a better
idea of it.

Let us imagine a film of this thickness covering a globe 50 centi-
meters in diameter; let us enlarge in thought this globe until it has
the actual dimensions of our earth. The film enlarged in the same
proportion will acquire a thickness of only 26 millimeters, while the
paper which covers the globe and upon which the world map was
made will increase from its original thickness of 0.1 millimeter to 24
kilometers !

(3) Comparison with molecular dimensions.—But we may make
better comparisons. In the molecular theory, the thinnest film of any
substance which can exist is evidently made of a single layer of
molecules; for it is impossible to conceive of a film thinner than a
molecule except through the deformation or destruction of the mole-
cule itself.

We possess to-day very numerous and exact determinations of the
Avogadro constant, allowing us to calculate molecular dimensions.
We have made the calculation for oil, or rather for the trioleate of
glycerin. Using Perrin’s value for Avogadro’s constant, we found
1.13 pp for the molecular diameter. The theoretical value of the
diameter of a molecule thus calculated is practically identical with
1.10 py, the experimentally measured thickness of an oil film at its
maximum extension. The difference is only in the hundredths of a
micron.
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

We know therefore that a film of oil at its maximum extension is
formed of only a single layer of molecules... This remarkable fact
is true of other films than those of oil, nor is it limited to liquid
films. I have found it to be equally true for various solid substances,
with this difference: it is the solid state itself which disappears at
the critical thickness and not the surface tension, as with liquids.*
T therefore derive this general conclusion: the characteristic mechan-
ical properties corresponding to certain states of a body, the sur-
face tension of a liquid or the rigidity of a solid, persist almost
intact down to molecular thicknesses, disappearing abruptly the
minute we go further.

This fact has a general significance which we should appreciate.
For the present, however, we will be content in seeing a new and
direct demonstration of the discontinuity of matter and the reality
of molecules; it is indeed a new method allowing us to measure the
dimensions of molecules with a precision comparable with that of the
best methods we have.

Ill. THE EVOLUTION OF LARGE DROPS OF OIL UPON WATER.

Instead of placing upon the water a very minute trace of oil, let
us put there an ordinary drop of one to three hundredths of a cubic
centimeter. We will now watch a series of phenomena as interesting
as what we have just seen. Scarcely does the drop touch the water
when it spreads out and covers the whole surface. But the film, of
course, is very thick. It is hundreds of molecules thick and clearly
visible, because it reflects light better than does water. Generally
we see interference colors, at least at one phase of its extension.
But this phase is always fugitive, especially with nondrying and
fresh oils and when the surface of the water is very clean. This is
the case with the present film. The evolution of a film lasts but
10 to 15 seconds; indeed the principal phases take place in the first
3 seconds. However, on water already oily, the formation is very
much retarded and the film appears with a sharp circular border, as
in plate 7. Soon its brilliant surface is pierced with black, circular
spots looking like holes, where the water appears as if free from oil.
These spots, more or less numerous according to the kind of oil,
gradually grow in size, and each one is finally surrounded by a band
of small droplets similar to pearls (pl. 3).

The first of these spots appears near the edge of the film, where it
is thinner than at the center. They grow very rapidly and soon run
together. The spots over the rest of the film subsequently behave in

1QLord Rayleigh in the research cited above discussed this question, but the knowledge
then of the value of Avogadro’s constant was not so accurate.

2 Devaux, |. c., 1904. y

8The process of fixation of these films is peculiar and has been described in a special
communication (1. ¢., Oct., 1912).
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux. PLATE 2:

FILM OF OLIVE OIL AT THE BEGINNING OF ITS EVOLUTION UPON PURE WATER
(LESS THAN ONE SECOND AFTER THE DEPOSITION OF THE DROP).

The center is thick (rings and interference colors), the border thin (brown of the first
order, 100 yu, then paler and paler white). The film is, however, already pierced with
circular holes, yet small and rare at the center, large and fused together at the edge.
There are fine droplets at the edge.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux PLATE 3.

FILM COMPLETELY EXTENDED, AGE ABOUT TWO SECONDS.

Its spread has reached the phase when first-order tints appear. A general shrinkage is taking place
everywhere. The central black spots have increased in size and fused together; their borders are
much broken up and are surrounded by various sized droplets.
OIL FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY—DEVAUX. 267

the same way (pl. 4), so that finally the film is changed into groups
of droplets scattered over the surface of the water, which reappears
as if free from oil, and uniformly dark (pl. 5).

It is evident, however, that the surface of the water is yet covered
between the globules by a very thin film of oil; and the persistence of
this final phase shows that it remains in this discontinuous condition
because the oil on the water is almost in static equilibrium. It is
therefore necessary to distinguish two phases in the development of
an oil film—the evolutionary phase, always fugitive, and the final
static phase.

IV. THE STATIC PHASE OF OIL UPON WATER.

Let us consider especially this last phase, that of a very thin, con-
tinuous film extended over the surface of the water and studded or
not with globules or disks. We will begin by establishing an im-
portant fact: the thickness of this continuous film depends upon the
existence and dimensions of the globules. Because we find that when
a film with minute globules exists beside one with great ones, the first
always contracts at the cost of the second. Since, therefore, the
tension is stronger in the former, we must conclude that the film with
minute Le ae is the thinner.

With regard to the thickness of thin films, we are then led to dis-
tinguish four cases: the maximum and minimum thickness of films
without globules; the maximum and minimum thickness of films
with globules. Practically these reduce to three cases, since the
maximum thickness of a film without globules is necessarily the same
as the minimum thickness of one with globules.

(1) MINIMUM THICKNESS OF FILM WITHOUT GLOBULES.

We have already measured this thickness since it occurs in a film
at its maximum extension and it is about 1.10 py.

(2) MAXIMUM THICKNESS OF A FILM WITHOUT OR THE MINIMUM
THICKNESS OF ONE WITH GLOBULES.

(a) Principle used in measuring films of a thickness greater than
that at the minimum: While the minimum thickness of oil films is
easy to obtain and even to measure, because of the sudden and con-
siderable change in the surface tension for small variations in thick-
ness, this is not the case for thicker films; for when we pass the
eritical thickness, the surface tension scarcely alters even for very
great variations in the thickness of the film. It is therefore much
easier to measure a film at its minimum thickness than at a greater
thickness.

However, since it is always possible, by enlarging the film, to
pass from a thicker to a thinner film, this difficulty can be avoided.
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

We can then in any case choose an oil film without globules having
the desired thickness, isolate a portion of the surface, 8, then enlarge
this to its greatest extension, S’. It will then have its minimum
thickness. The ratio S’/S will be the ratio of the two thicknesses.
Since the minimum thickness is known, we obtain the other thickness
by multiplying by this ratio.

(6) Experimental procedure: In order to determine the greatest
thickness of an oil film without globules, I proceed as follows. By
means of a glass fiber, I place upon the water of my tray a drop of
several tenths of a cubic millimeter. It expands into a film which
contracts very quickly into a multitude of little droplets scattered
over a black film. I now place a sheet of paper over the greater
part of the surface and move it very slowly toward me. Immediately
we see the globules over the rest of the surface grow into brilliant
disks which finally break up into smaller drops. Repeating this par-
tial wiping away several times, the globules one by one disappear,
each momentarily becoming a disk, multicolored or of brilliant white.
Finally the whole surface of the water appears*black. But there are
still very small droplets which may be made evident by slight en-
largements made by jerking the dish. Each one gives a flash of ight
and then disappears. The final phase of the phenomenon requires
acute observation, especially for some oils which produce particularly
fine globules. In such cases I scatter a light veil of tale powder on
the film, then extend the film slightly and at once we see the talc
thrown out in little circles about each minute globule. .

(c) Results: The following table shows results obtained by the
process just described. It gives the ratio between the greatest and
least thickness we can have with films without globules.

PETAL LEI EY cea SO I cee Ok Ao OS ie 1927 1. 28
“TERY OT UE) 2 SS SS ie IR ne DU The 12 el t22
Renee O Uber ats we EE gt ip telat ke eR eye ee L18 a 1S

BSL Ess VOM peewee seek uM ie oad SET Ry Seek ee Sa 1.18

WOE Ver A101 Seek ce 2 Rs Ree as a FR ROCESS RS 1.16

Sheeps-foot “oile.3 hae Lees ee eh ee 1.16

Castor Oi]! scares RE ey ee ee ils 5s)

The ratio of the maximum to the minimum thickness for an oil
film without globules varies a little from oil to oil, but it is always
less than two. It is usually very close to unity, so that a film ex-
tended over water can have a maximum thickness but little superior
to its minimum thickness. We may otherwise state this. A film
thicker than one molecule can not exist without nearly all the excess
of oil forming into globules.

(d) The formation of foam in a very shrunken oil film: The last
experiment explains a very curious and interesting fact. If we re-
duce an oil film from its maximum extension so as to diminish its
surface to one-tenth or one-twentieth of its original area the film
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux. PLATE 4.

VERY ADVANCED STAGE IN THE BREAKING UP AND CONTRACTION OF AN OIL FILM
BY THE FUSING OF THE BLACK FILM AND DROPLETS INTO DROPS OF VARIOUS
SIZES.

This film is about three seconds old.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux. PLATE 5.

FINAL NEARLY @) STABLE STATE REACHED AFTER 10 TO 15 SECONDS.

The oil film seems reduced to a cloud of fine droplets scattered over the water. Inreality, a very
thin continuous oil film exists between the droplets. The figure of equilibrium of oil on water
is therefore discontinuous. (1!) I say ‘‘nearly”’ because the drops are still undergoing small
displacements; they are approaching each other and fusing into larger droplets. This fusion
is often hindered by an increasing viscosity, leading to an apparent solidification of the oil in
contact with the air.
DEVAUX. 269

OIL FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY

loses its bright aspect, becoming leaden and as if covered with an
exceedingly fine foam. Microscopic examination assures us that the
oil has changed into a multitude of droplets of various sizes, 10 p,
5, 1p, and less. Working in the sunlight, I have seen the foam ap-
pear before the film has been reduced to one-half its maximum
extension.

This is a new and direct proof of what we have just learned, that
as soon as an oil film is so much reduced in surface that it is more
than one molecule thick, nearly all the excess of oil forms into
globules.

(e) Variation of molecular distances: This extraordinary fact gives
a new and interesting insight into the field of molecular action. It
shows particularly that the forces which stretch out these films of
liquids are due almost wholly to a single layer of molecules and that
the surface layer. It is evident further that a film, if it is uniform,
must be greater than one and less than two molecules in thickness.
Now, everything indicates that a film is really uniform and homo-
geneous, since the least variation in its thickness gives rise to con-
siderable differences of tensions which tend to reestablish everywhere
a perfect homogeneity, and especially the equality of molecular dis-
tances. The difference between the states of least and greatest exten-
sion can be dependent then only on the distances between the mole-
cules; if they are compact in the first case, they can not be so in the
second. At any rate, that is the interpretation given by M. Brillouin
in a discussion which followed my communication.t The distance
apart of the molecules in such films will be inversely as the square
root of the surface. Accordingly, the square roots of the preceding
ratios give the relative molecular Wistances. This ratio ranges
between 1.1 and 1.2.

It follows that as soon as the molecules of a mono-molecular oil
film are separated by from 1.1 to 1.2 their normal distances, they lose
all power of lowering the surface tension of water. Conversely, as
soon as the molecules are brought together, so that they are separated
by 1.1 to 1.2 of their normal distances, they cause an abrupt and con-
siderable fall in the surface tension of the water, making it practi-
cally the same as if it were a large body of oil. For beyond this
hmit the oil gathers into globules.

(f) Correction to the value of the normal molecular distance: The
measure of the molecular distance 1.10 yy, given above, corresponds to
films at their greatest extension. The true distance in normal oil will
be somewhat smaller, say 1.10/1.1 to 1.10/1.2 or 1.10 to 0.92 py. This
corrected distance differs decidedly from the theoretical value, 1.18 pp,
deduced from the measures of Perrin. Some day we will examine
the cause of this difference.

1 Meeting of the Société de Physique, May 3, 1912,
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
(3) MAXIMUM THICKNESS WITH GLOBULES.

(a) Method of measurement: This measurement is especially diffi-
cult. After various attempts, I came to the conclusion that here the
only certain method was to proceed by the extension of the film as in
the previous case. In order to determine the maximum thickness, I
isolate portions of great black spots (4.5 cm. in diameter) which have
appeared very slowly from a thick sheet of oil (pl. 6). Then, first
lightly powdering the surface, I enlarge it to its maximum extension.
This operation is often hindered by the existence of very minute
globules. In an instance where the globules were absent I noted that
the maximum extension was obtained by about doubling the surface.
It certainly was not tripled. We may say, then, that a film of oil
at its greatest thickness, when the excess of oil has formed into disks
in contact with it, is only about twice its least thickness.

In other words, no continuous film will be stable on water when
its thickness is greater than two molecules, whatever be the thickness
of the masses of oil in contact with it. It will be necessary to await
new measures before we truly know whether these films have a real
thickness analogous to the maximum thickness without globules.
That is, whether they are not formed of a layer of single molecules
packed as closely together as possible.

(6) Discontinuity maximum: We are now in the presence of the
maximum of the discontinuity of oil films upon water. We may
easily have upon the water disks a millimeter or more in thickness.
I have noted, for instance, that a cubic centimeter of olive oil placed
upon water already, heavily oiled forms a disk 30 mm. in diameter
and having an area about 7 square cm. Its mean thickness is there-
fore greater than 1 mm. and it is certainly 2 mm. thick at its central
part. Despite this thickness, the disk is surrounded by water on all
sides, kept in stable equilibrium by an absolutely invisible film of
oil having a thickness one-millionth of that of the disk.

A simple comparison will show how peculiar is this discontinuous
equilibrium of oil on water: Let us imagine our film enlarged one-
half a million times; then our oil film at its maximum thickness
would be 1 mm. thick, and it carries instable equilibrium masses of
oil whose thickness can reach and even surpass 1 kilometer
(1,000,000 mm.) !

(c) Comparison with the black film of soap bubbles: I have
already, in calling attention to the evolution of a thick film of oil
newly formed upon water, spoken of the constant appearance of
black circles which grow larger and larger and merge finally into a
continuous surface dotted with globules. It is odd that physicists
OIL FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY—DEVAUX. oTe

have not been struck long since with the resemblance between these
“holes” in the oil films and the black spots of soap bubbles. The
mode of sudden appearance, the circular form, size, and progressive
enlargement are very similar, and each hole is really occupied by an
oil film whose thickness is comparable with that of the black spot of
the soap bubble.

The holes in the oil film are, it is true, always more numerous, and
further, they finally become surrounded with droplets and then flow
together (pls. 3 and 4). In reality, soap bubbles often show several
simultaneous black spots, especially just before rupture. Further,
and which is of special interest, Herbert Stansfield* has called atten-
tion to black spots in soap bubbles accompanied by collars of disks
and granules which correspond to what occurs with oil films, only,
since the soap bubbles are never horizontal, gravity necessarily pulls
the thick portions away from where they appear. The confluence of
the spots is not then peculiar to oil films.

The phenomena in the two cases are the same, the differences aris-
ing from the changed conditions under which the films are formed,
an independent and two-faced skin in the case of a soap bubble, a
skin adherent to and supported by water in the case of the oil film.
Accordingly, the study of the evolution of oil films throws light upon
the final stages through which a soap bubble goes when it does not
break. It becomes reduced to a black, very thin film, dotted with
thick portions, either circular disks or droplets.

Further, similar, very large, black spots have been obtained in the
films of soap bubbles by Reynold and Rucker? in their beautiful
researches made between 1877 and 1893. Upon these films they
determine the thickness of the black spots which were all found
sensibly equal and equal to about 12 yu. Johannot? later showed that
films could exist having a thickness one-half as great, or 6 py.

We can now compare the thicknesses of oi] and soap bubble films.
In both instances we have black films formed from much thicker
ones.

Black films of oil with a maximum thickness of 2 to 3 uu.

Black films of soap bubbles, maximum thickness of 6 to 12 py.

These thicknesses are of the same order, Oil films are certainly
always at least one-half as thin as the thinnest soap-bubble films.
This important difference must be due to the fact that in the case
of oil films on water there is only one free surface.

1 Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1906, p. 311.
2A. W. Reynold and A. W. Rucker, Proc. Roy. Soc. of London, 1877; Phil. Trans. ditto,
pt. 2, 1881, 1883; Phil. Mag., vol. 19, 1885; Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. of London, II, 1886;

Wied. Ann., vol. 44, 1891; Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. of London, vol. 184, 1895.

3 Johannot, Phil. Mag., vol. 47, 1899.
bo

72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
TABLE OF RESULTS.

The following table gives a summary of the previous results and
allows us to make useful comparisons.

THEORETICAL REPRESENTATION OF BLACK FILMS AND OF MOLECULES.

Greatest and least thicknesses of stable oil films expanded upon water. The thicknesses are multiplied
by one million (1 mm. represents 1 pp.)

1.13 42 Theoretical size of oil molecules (trioleate of glycer-
ine),! calculated from Perrin’s data.

1.10 42 Minimum thickness of a stable oil film found ex-
perimentally.

1.15to Maximum thickness of a stable film without glob-
1.53 pe ules, or the minimum thickness of a film with
globules, found experimentally.

Black spot of oil
films.

2to3 yu Maximum thickness of a film in stable equilibrium
with great globules or with masses of oil of 1 mm.
or greater in thickness.

6 ue ist minimum thickness of film of soap-bubbles.

Black spot of soap-
bubble films.
12 wy 2nd minimum thickness of films of soap-bubbles
or maximum thickness of the black spot.

Tana

V. OIL FILMS ON MERCURY.

Oil placed on mercury shows very similar results to those obtained
upon water.? There is still a very sharp limit to the extension, and
the thickness of the films at the limits is sensibly the same. When
the oil is abundant enough, it forms a thick colored film which grows
rapidly with the production of black spots surrounded with globules
(pl. 7) and finally becomes a very thin film dotted with droplets.
Other liquids (sulphuric acid, soap water, distilled water) give upon
mercury analogous growths. We have therefore here.a very general

class of phenomena.’
VI. CONCLUSIONS.

We see now that a concept which at first seemed chimerical—that
is, the reduction of substances to perfectly homogeneous films only one
molecule in thickness—has become an experimental reality. And in-

1 See Devaux, 1. c., November, 1912.

2Deyaux, Journal de Physique, November, 1912.

3 Karl Fischer in his inaugural dissertation (Die geringste Dicke yon Fliissigkeitschich-
ten, Miinich, 1896), studied the extension of two oils and other liquids upon mercury.
He gives numerous measures of the thickness of films before their rupture. The thin-
est had thicknesses less than 3 mz (rapeseed oil) and 1 gz (sulphuric acid).
‘sjo[dorp o1R O10} PUB OID, ‘SmMLY pasny YOR[G Bais JO posodwmood oie YAOM YoU OY} UL ssurmedo oud

‘W1Ilq MOIH_ | AYSA V AB AWIL SNO7T V Y314SV GSWHO4 ATIVYANSS SV 110 BSAIIO JO YYHOMLAN LV3Y5)

‘9 ALVid “‘xneaeg—'E16| ‘Hodey uRiuosy}IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Devaux. PLATE 7.

FILM OF OLEIC ACID UPON MERCURY. COLOR, VIOLET-ROSE (140 m2).

The surface of the mercury had already received a drop of acid which had entirely con-
tracted into droplets. The new drop expanded very slowly with clearly defined thick bor-
ders. These borders have already been transformed into chaplets of great drops such as
are always found about the black spots which appear at various moments in the expansion
of a film.
OIL FILMS ON WATER AND MERCURY—DEVAUX. 273

deed these phenomena work spontaneously and are visible to you
all whenever a drop of grease falls upon the water in one of the
ordinary plates from which you eat, so that nothing is more common
and banal than these extremely thin films.

The formation and stability of these films are automatic. The
stability is so great that it is possible, without breaking the film,
to distend it—that is, to separate progressively the molecules—until
their reciprocal action is entirely destroyed, an operation which we
could not perform upon liquids in bulk without leading immediately
to rupture.

With our films, however, this is a most simple operation and always
successful; it is only necessary to increase the free surface occupied
by the film upon the water or the mercury. Thus we have become
acquainted with the fundamental fact that the extension of the oil
film is limited. As soon as the molecules are separated by a distance
greater by one to several tenths of their normal distance they lose
all reciprocal action, for they no longer diminish the surface tension 1
of the water. We have called this phase the maximum extension.
Conversely it suffices to bring them together, by contracting the sur-
face slightly, in order to see the effect of the oil upon the surface
tension of the water reappear and increase rapidly, so that the ten-
sion passes rapidly from that of pure water to nearly that of oil.

These facts allow us to enter directly the experimental study of
the field of molecular action.? They allow us to catch a glimpse of
other mysteries to be discovered, other marvels to contemplate, and
to delve into that domain of invisible elements of which visible mat-
ter is composed.

The little drop of oil has much more to show us. Who knows,
indeed, but that it will bring us before long phenomena of the great-
est importance, yet which at present we can not foresee ?

+A curious exception is found in oleic acid and in soap, the molecules of which when
stretched over water can be separated some ten times the molecular distance. Devaux,
I. c.,, 1904.

“M. Brillouin so stated in the appreciation which this: professor of the Collage de
France gave upon my researches at a meeting of the Société de Physique on the 3d of
May, 1912.

44863°—sm 19183-——18
edt if ‘Aidainatele aR

“gna odt gailered ‘ads sit

Fides --volobem 1 aiid iatinnsr gest ole
ge. doide qolie qe {opyaxiesb praanies Re |
an’ pi pagsttt paibanl, saat 1 te, tained nie ime at ce
i hi - * pe .

cs

oy pre ts 7 ota ws Ae
; Feit fe! BAthy ne

ts 5

eae etree one oa gee

serine. pict nietae
“ie rae

rates bo erer

y= ve 9h ts aoeaborut
aN: a oa qo 9p plays al aps

WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY:

By ArTHUR L. Day and E. S. SHEPHERD.’

[With 11 plates. }
GREEN'S VIEW THAT THE KILAUEA EMANATION IS ANHYDROUS.

In a book,’ now little known and rare, William Lowthian Green,
a distinguished Englishman, long in the service of the native govern-
ment of the Hawaiian Islands, writes as follows:

What we mainly wish to contend for and to impress upon geologists—for
reconsideration, at least—is, that it may be a mistake to assert, as is so often
done in the most positive manner, that water and steam are inseparably con-
nected with voleanic action. On the contrary it would appear that elastic
vapors have nothing to do with the liquidity of the Hawaiian basic lavas, and
that as a matter of fact they do not seem to come up with them from below,
whilst the basie minerals themselves give no indications in the main eruptions,
of having been in contact with water, highly susceptible as they are, to such
an dnfluence.

Mr. Green was not only a keen observer of the manner of operation
of the physical forces which participate in the volcanic activity to
be seen in the Hawaiian Islands, but his opportunities for studying
such phenomena were quite exceptional. His conclusion, supported
as it was by many facts of observation, has therefore demanded, and
indeed has received, consideration at the hands of geologists gen-
erally, although until very lately no one has been willing to consider
it as having any application to volcanoes outside Hawaii.

BRUN MAINTAINS THE SAME VIEW.

More recently Albert Brun, a chemist of Geneva, Switzerland, has
offered data‘ (apparently without knowing the werk of Green)
gathered from a great number of active volcanoes with intent to
prove by analysis of the gases which he collected that water plays

1Reprinted by permission from Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, vol. 24,
pp. 5738-606, pls. 17-27, Dec. 16, 1913. -
2Read before the society Dee. 31, 1912.
3 Vestiges of the Molten Globe, pt. 2, 1887, p. 82.
“Recherches sur ]’Exhalaison Voleanique. Geneva, 1911.
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

no part in volcanic activity. His words are as follows (p. 249, fol-
lowing a detailed statement of reasons which will be considered

below) :

Il est done parfaitement certain que le volcan paroxysmal werhdle pas deau.
La preuve est faite. Le grand panache blanc est composé de particules solides
et anhydres.

Il faut done que la théorie aqueuse disparaisse de la science.

(The italics are Brun’s.)

Except for these two conspicuous instances, students of vuleanism
have generally concluded! that water is usually if not always the
chief agent in volcanic activity.

It is not our purpose to discuss this question at this time except in
so far as it may find application in the voleano Kilauea on the Island
of Hawaii, but this volcano provided all of the material for Green’s
discussion and a very essential portion of that offered by Brun. It
will therefore be of interest to record some observations made in the
course of an extended study of this volcano by the writers during
the summers of 1911 and 1912. The purpose of these studies is to
obtain definite information about the character of the chemical re-
actions which take place in an active volcano, and in particular to
determine the role played by the gaseous components, which are very
important factors in both its chemical and physical activities. In
many studies of volcanoes the gases have been allowed to escape
entirely, while in others they were not captured until the nature of
the components was so much altered by oxidation or otherwise that
their identification, to say nothing of the determination of their
relative proportions and the character of the equilibrium existing
between them, has remained uncertain. On these broader questions,
which are laboratory problems, most of the work still remains to be
done. It is, however, quite possible to offer evidence on the partici-
pation of water and of some of the other volatile ingredients in the
activity of Kilauea in advance of this study, which may require some
years before all the questions which have been raised are satisfac-
torily elucidated.

DISCUSSION OF THE OBSERVATIONS OF GREEN AND BRUN.

First let us review somewhat briefly the observations which led
Green and Brun to the same novel conclusion, that water has no part
in the volcanic activity of Kilauea. In the case of Green such a

1G, Poulett Scrope: ‘‘ Volcanoes,” London, 1872. John W. Judd: “ Volcanoes, what
they are and what they teach,” London, 1881, James D. Dana: “ Characteristics of
volcanoes,’ New York, 1891. A. Geikie: *‘ Textbook of geology,” vol. 1, London, 1903.
S. Arrhenius: ‘ Lehrbuch der Cosmischen Physik,” Leipzig, 1903, It should perhaps be
added that some have expressed the opinion that the importance of water has been over-
estimated, without explicit denial of its participation in volcanic activity. (See, for
example, J. G. Bornemann: “ Ueber Schlakenkegel und Laven, ein Beitrag zur Lehre vom
Vulkanismus,” Jahrb. d, Kgl. pr. geol. Landesanstalt, u. Bergakad, 1887, p. 230.)
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY——DAY AND SHEPHERD. 2%77

review is not altogether easy. His reasoning is based on deductions
from many phenomena, such as appeal to an observer on the ground;
great lava streams without a trace of vapor rising from them; a
condition of great activity in the lava pit of Halemaumau (the only
portion of the Kilauea Volcano now continuously active), with
hardly a trace of any cloud above it; a rather conspicuous difference
in character between the Halemaumau cloud (when there is one)
and the clouds which arise from numerous steam cracks in the coun-
try round about, etc. Perhaps the chief factor which clinched his
conclusion was the fact (which we also observed) that there are
times when a magnificent cloud rises from the active basin, separated
by but a day or two from periods when practically no cloud can be
seen, and this with no apparent change either in the character or
amount of activity visible in the basin. He therefore concluded
that if steam was the moving force, and if the great white cloud was
the manifestation of that fact, its presence must be expected on one
day: as much as on another in which the same gas and lava condi-
tions appeared to prevail.

He was also able to discover no diminution in the liquidity of the
‘lava, either in the crater or in the great lava streams during those
periods when no cloud was seen, and therefore no casual connection
between the presence of the gases and fiuidity of the lava.

Had it occurred to Green to try to remelt some of the solidified
lava after the gases had escaped, this last puzzling question would
have been clearer to him, for the crudest effort would at once have
revealed the fact, which since then has often been noted, that these
lavas, when reheated to the temperature prevailing in the lava lake
before solidification, remain quite rigid—the characteristic fluidity
has departed with the escaping gases.

Brun’s statement of his observations at Kilauea is more explicit.
In particular he offers six definite reasons for believing that steam is
not present either in the lava basin or in the cloud above it. They
are these:

(1) The cloud arising from the crater does not evaporate in the
sun as do the clouds arising from neighboring cracks after a rain,
but can be seen floating majestically away often for 20 miles or more.

(2) No rainbow or other optical phenomena can be detected in the
cloud arising from the crater, although rainbows are abundant
enough in the vicinity under appropriate conditions.

(3) If the cloud were of steam emerging from white-hot lava,
there should be an interval of a few feet between the point of emer-
gence and the beginning of condensation (like the dark space imme-
diately in front of the spout of a steaming teakettle) in which the
steam should be invisible. No such dark space could be seen.
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

(4) As the cloud rises past the rim of the crater on the leeward
side, the walls about the crater, being comparatively cold, should be
wet with the condensed vapor, Whereas in fact these walls remain
quite dry.

(5) A train of glass tubes was lowered over the rim of the crater
for a few yards on the side where the cloud was emerging, and
through these tubes (some 250 feet distant from the nearest liquid
lava, it may be remarked) air and the vapors carried by it were
pumped for several minutes, but no trace of condensed moisture
appeared on the inside walls of the tubes. Examination with a
hand jens revealed the fact that the tube walls were quite thickly
covered with crystallized salts, some of which were stated to be
hydrates or to be hygroscopic, but this was deemed to be due to
original moisture (!) carried on the tube wall before the beginning
of the experiment. No analyses of the gases or of the solid salts are
given.

(6) A dew-point hygrometer carried along the rim through the
smoke cloud showed a lower humidity within the cloud than in the
clear air just outside of it.

Before proceeding to recount our own experience with these phe-
nomena, it may be as well to express our belief that nearly all of
these observations, both of Green and Brun, may be perfectly true as
recounted above, and still offer no proof that the volcano exhales no
water vapor.

°
THE EXPLANATION OF THE VOLCANO CLOUD.

Green’s observation that the great white cloud appears but inter-
mittently may be explained by a somewhat closer observation of the
conditions of formation of the cloud without assumptions of any
kind about its possible water content. For example, we noted, dur-
ing several months of constant observation, that the visible cloud
does not rise directly from the surface of the liquid lava, but rather
from cracks in the inclosing banks,’ shattered, as they always are,
by alternations of heat and cold as the liquid lava rises and falls in

1 Cf. plates 6, 7, 8, and 11.

Observations confirmatory of the conclusion that the smoke cloud when present does
not rise from the liquid Java, but from the shattered floor and talus surrounding the
basin, have been recorded by other writers.

For example, Prof. W. T. Brigham, director of the Bishop Museum,, Honolulu, who
for 50 years has been one of the most careful observers of volcanic phenomena in the
Island of Hawaii, writes as follows: (Volcanoes of Kilauea and Mauna Loa on the Island
of Hawaii, Honolulu, 1909) :

Page 28: ‘* * * It should be noticed how small the supply of steam in the active
outpour of Kilauea really is.”

Page 28: “ When the pit is empty of molten lava, the smoke is often most abundant.”

Legend to plate 45: ‘Lava pool below the rim of Halemaumau. * * * Little
vapor rises from the portion which is active.”

Legend to plate 50: ‘‘ There is little escape of steam from the lake surface.”

William Lowthian Green (Vestiges of the Molten Globe, vol. 2) writes (p. 170):
“Smoke, vapors, and gases seem to arise from the orifices of eruption and orifices in the
neighborhood of molten lavas on Hawali, and not from the lavas themselves.”
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 279

the basin. When the lava is high enough to completely flood the
floor of the basin, these cracks are closed and all the gases emitted
emerge directly from the surface of the lava into the atmosphere
and have the temperature appropriate to the surface of the liquid
(1,000° to 1,200° centigrade). At this temperature the gases (sul-
phur and hydrogen, for example) burn promptly on contact with the
oxygen of the air and remain nearly or quite invisible. A thin blue
haze can sometimes be distinguished above a bursting bubble + when
conditions are exceptionally favorable, but this haze is so thin that
spectators watching for it from the rim will generally disagree about
its existence.

This is the condition of no cloud (pl. 1) described by Green, and
does not in the least suggest either a change in the composition or a
diminution in the total quantity of the gases given off by the volcano.

When the lava level in the lake has fallen 10 or 20 feet (which is
an almost daily occurrence and often takes place within an hour),
only part of the gases set free come from the free surface of the lava,
and considerable quantities now appear through the shattered floor
surrounding the basin. The gases bubbling out from the lava basin
remain as transparent as before and for the same reasons, but the
gases appearing from the cracks in the floor and from the surround-
ing talus are now cooled in passing through the cracks to such an
extent that they no longer burn on reaching the oxygen of the air.
Free sulphur is then set free in considerable quantities, unburned;
this we were able to collect without trouble, both at the point of
emergence and on the crater rim. It is this finely divided free sul-
phur which is mainly responsible for the beautiful white cloud
(pl. 2) above the crater and not crystalline chlorides, as supposed
by Brun. In fact only a minute quantity of chlorine or its salts (less
than 0.02 per cent) could be found in the emanations from the
Kilauea basin during the period of our visit.

Our observation of the appearance and behavior of this cloud is
therefore in full accord with the observations of both Green and
Brun, so far as recorded, but there is nothing in the facts thus estab-
lished to show whether the sulphur is accompanied by water vapor
or not.

Herein is also to be found a sufficient explanation of Brun’s ob-
servations—(1), (2), and (3), page 277, that the cloud when present
does not evaporate after leaving the crater, that it gives no optical
phenomena in sunlight, and that it is immediately visible as it
emerges from the floor cracks and talus without a transparent zone
separating the point of emergence from the visible cloud—results
which would be expected if the cloud consisted only of steam, but not
if it contains much sulphur.

1Cf. Frank A. Perret: “The circulatory system in the Halemaumau Lava Lake during
the summer of 1911.””. Amer. Journ. Sci. (4), vol. 35, 1913, p. 341.

280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,
BRUN’S HYGROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS.

The remainder of Brun’s observations of the apparent absence of
water vapor may find appropriate explanation in the fact that they
were made in an unsaturated atmosphere (as shown by his elaborate
records of the hygroscopic state of the air during his observations)
at a distance of more than 250 feet from the point of emergence of
the gases, and the further fact that the cloud not only carries sulphur,
but two of its oxidation products, SO, and SO,, both of which in
these circumstances are effective drying agents. It may very well
happen that water is given off in considerable amount by the volcano
and yet remains invisible; for, in addition to the portion disappear-
ing as vapor in the unsaturated atmosphere,’ a considerable addi-
tional quantity will condense about the finely divided sulphur par-
ticles, serving as nuclei of condensation.

Furthermore, in our opinion, Brun’s explanation of what he deemed
to be crystals of hydrated salts in his vacuum tubes and in the pipe
line through which his gases were pumped is a somewhat fortuitous
one, and certainly leaves an element of reasonable doubt whether
their presence was entirely due to moisture carried by the tubes them-
selves. The very care exercised by Brun would seem to make this
unlikely except for the fact that it was offered by Brun himself. If
it could be shown that these hydrous salts were regular inhabitants
of the sulphur cloud, the comparative dryness of the cloud would
also find ready explanation.

Brun’s final contention (sec. 6, p. 278) that a dew-point hygrometer
carried along the rim of the crater shows a lower humidity within the
cloud than in the clear air immediately outside of it appears to be
open to serious criticism from the physical side, although if one may
judge by the space given to these observations in “ L’Exhalaison Vol-
canique,” this is the point which Brun himself regarded as the most
convincing observation of all. It appears to be a matter of grave
doubt whether the readings of a dew-point hygrometer in an atmos-
phere containing SO, and SO, have any significance whatsoever, in
view of the well-known affinity of these compounds for water. The
cloud could hardly be charged with better drying agents than these
under the conditions described; it might, therefore, a priori, be
expected to contain less free moisture than the adjacent atmosphere
which does not contain these drying agents. Furthermore, the effect
on the dew-point apparatus itself of exposure to the cloud contain-

1 Prof. J. P. Iddings, Prof. H. D. Gibbs, of the University of Manila, and several chem-
ists from the Philippine Bureau of Science have observed gaseous emanations rising in
great volume near the volcano Taal, which were found to contain large quantities of

water and yet gave no trace of a cloud. (Unpublished records of the Bureau of Science,
Manila, P. I.)
"M1R948 JO APOIO o1B
pur qd ay} Surpunoaans syouso oyy worl ynq ‘JIS Id AMO oy} UIOI] OU ASTI SpNOo [[BUIS OY, “PYOUS WoIy 9d1J NBUINUTE[VH JO yd 9AT}OB JuOsead oY] SUIMOYS

“(OL6BL Uy) A1NC) YNOHVNSM) WOkS YALVYD VANVIIYM AHL SO MSIA OINVYONVd VW

*| ALviad puaydeys pue heg—'¢16| ‘Hoday ueiuosyziws
‘VY Si oY} 1V 9d9UBISIp Oy} UT Uses SI ROT BUNBIT “pnNoypo oeyous [nJWNRAq 94 SurmMoys

(CGI Se Aaliaip) ASNOH ONVOIOA SHL WOYS YSLVYD VSNVIIY JO MAA OINVYONVd

Oo 31LV1d ‘pisydaus pue Aeq—'¢

6 ‘Hodey URIUOSU}IWUS
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. Q81

ing SO, and SO, may be a factor of considerable significance. The
first reading of the instrument might well be approximately correct,
but subsequent readings would surely all be subject to the effect of
uncertain amounts of SO, and SO, carried by the instrument in con-
sequence of the first exposure. This would have the effect of render- ©
ing all the subsequent readings of the series quite valueless as a meas-
ure of the water content either of the air or of the cloud.

In order to support the view that the atmosphere within the cloud
containing SO, and SO, is necessarily drier than air which does not
contain these substances, several measurements of dew points were
made by us in an appropriate laboratory apparatus, of which the
results will be found in the table below. The first column contains
the dew point of air at varying degrees of saturation; the second
column the dew point of the same air to which 1 per cent of SO,
(air + 1 per cent SO, is still respirable) has been added. All obser-
vations are in duplicate.

Observations of dew points.

Air of ran-| The same

dom water | air + ae Difference.
content. cent SO2.
|
|
° ° eo
2 6.4 —0.8
7.0 5.8 —1.2
19.2 18.1 —1.1
19.4 18.4 —0.9
20. 4 17.5 —2.9
20.2 18.5 —1.7
21.6 19.7 —1.9
PA it 19.4 —1.7
21.5 19.0 —2.5
21.5 20.4 —1.1

Dew-point observations in the nature of the case can make no pre-
tensions to high accuracy, but the effect of charging the air with a
very small quantity of SO, is shown most convincingly. The effect
of the addition of SO, would have been still greater than that of
SO,, since it forms H,SO,, a notable dehydrating agent; but this
effect is somewhat more difficult to examine experimentally and so
was not undertaken; indeed, it was unnecessary, in view of the fact
that the point at issue is abundantly proved by the observations con-
tained in the table above. Brun has therefore proved no more with
his hygrometer measurements than that the great white cloud does
not consist entirely of water vapor, but it is not possible to estimate
the percentage of water contained in it from any figures based on
dew-point determinations under the conditions which he describes.

From this evidence it appears clear that the observations of fact
noted by both Green and Brun may for the most part be precisely as
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

described, and still the conclusion that water is not exhaled by the
voleano Kilauea remain in doubt.*

AN ATTEMPT TO COLLECT THE VOLCANO GASES BEFORE THEY REACHED
THE AIR.

Be that as it may, in our effort to obtain samples of the gaseous
emanations from Kilauea for further study in this laboratory, it was
au matter of very great importance to us to endeavor to establish the
facts in the case without the aid of inferences of the character above
outlined. We therefore entered on a long study of the habit of the
volcano with the purpose of going down on the floor of the crater
directly adjacent to the liquid lava, there to collect gases before they
had come in contact with the air at all. In the interval between May
1, 1912, and January 1 following but two favorable opportunities for
such an undertaking occurred, of both of which we endeavored to
take advantage. On the first occasion (May 28, 1912) a column of
liquid lava had worked its way up through the shattered floor adja-
cent to the large active basin and formed an active lava fountain
there several feet in diameter. Through its own spattering this
fountain quickly built for itself an inclosing wall or dike. When this
dike had grown to a completely inclosing dome (pl. 3), the gases dis-
charged by the fountain were free to escape only through narrow
slits in the dome, and there they could be seen at night burning fit-
fully, with a pale blue sheet of flame, thereby demonstrating (1) an
excess pressure within, and in consequence (2) that the gases re-
leased from the liquid lava first came in contact with the air on
emerging from these cracks in the dome.

We accordingly made the somewhat difficult descent into the crater
without mishap, and two crates, each containing 10 glass tubes of
one-half liter capacity each, arranged in a continuous series, were
then lowered down to us. To one end of this series of tubes a glass
pipe line was attached, which led directly into one of the cracks of
the dome (see pl. 4) through which the gas was escaping. The
last link of the pipe line consisted of an iron tube extending into the
dome about 12 inches. This iron pipe was also lined with glass up
to the very mouth of the crack, so that, except for the 12 inches of
iron pipe within the dome, the gases came in contact with no sub-
stance other than cold glass and a few pure rubber connectors, which
were made as short as possible by abutting the ends of the adjacent
tube sections. Inasmuch as the liquid lava contains nearly 10 per

1The chemical and physical tests offered by Brun in support of his conclusions (5)
and (6), page 278, are also somewhat inconclusive. For example, he tests for
chlorine with a silver nitrate solution in an atmosphere containing S, SOs, and SOz, and
notes that it immediately becomes clouded, but mentions no test to ascertain whether it
was the chloride or the sulphite which was thus precipitated. Similarly, he nowhere
offers a chemical analysis of these particular gases which he collected in tubes at
Kilauea, but contents himself with presenting two analyses of other gases pumped from
lava fragments reheated in vacuo some months afterwards.
*(AYSL 94 UO) VYRl BAB 9} 0} dDUAIATOI
WIA “SIGBT ‘8Z ABIY UO pazoa[[Oo a1OM SasRS YOLYM Wor (T) aTMOp 94] Jo UOMTsod ay) aIBAISNTIT 07 ydersojoyd [BUS B ULOL] pasiepugy

(SL6L ‘8G AVIN) SWOG SHI SO NOILISOg

43; ERE /ala| *pisydays pue Aeg— 161 ‘Hodey uejuosyyiws
‘duind pur saqu} surjvoa[foo ay} YIM dayyosoy “Oo y v.

3, OY} UO SUIGQN) JO OUI 9Y} ‘po}Va[[O9 a4OM SoSBS YOLLLM ULOdT OULOp aly) SULMOUY

"(SLEL ‘8G AVIN) AVWAVWAIVH ‘Lid 3AILOW 3HL NIHLIM MIA

“p ALW1d *piaydays pur heq—e16| ‘Hodey uejuosy}iws
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—-DAY AND SHEPHERD. 283

cent of FeO, the momentary contact of the gases with the oxidized
surface of the iron was not accounted a serious disturbing factor.
The other end of the tube system was connected to a piston pump
about 4 inches in diameter, with a displacement of about 24 liters per
stroke to insure a rapid passage of the gases through the tube system.
The gases entered the pipe line at a temperature of about 1,000°.
Their path was through the 12 inches of iron pipe, about 20 feet of
glass tubing (pure rubber joints at 4-foot intervals), then through
20 collecting tubes and out through the pump at the back. The
pumping was kept up for 15 minutes in order to make sure that the
air originally contained in the pipe line and connecting tubes was dis-
placed by the gases from the volcano, after which the pump and pipe
line were sealed off with pinchcocks and the crates raised to the rim.
In this pipe line water began condensing with the first stroke of the
pump, and at the end of 15 minutes about 300 cubic centimeters had
accumulated in the collecting tubes. It was clouded with free sul-
phur, partly from the original emanation and partly from the action
of the iron tube on the sulphur dioxide contained in the emanation.
In arranging this experiment Brun’s conclusions were known to us,
and accordingly we had provided ourselves with apparatus for col-
lecting fixed gases only. We were wholly unprepared for any which
might condense in passing through the collecting tubes. What we
obtained, therefore, was a quantity of the fixed gases, which may be
assumed to be approximately in the proper quantitative relation one
to another, and water, the latter in considerable excess from the fact
that it was not pumped through the tubes with the fixed gases, but
condensed and remained behind, chiefly in the first three or four
tubes. There is, therefore, no way to estimate from the results of
this experiment the proportion of water to the total quantity of
volatile matter discharged from the lava. Perhaps this should be
regarded as a fortunate mischance notwithstanding, for we were
thereby enabled to gather a quantity of water sufficient to establish
its existence among the volatile ingredients exhaled by the volcano
beyond the criticism of the most skeptical. Furthermore, the con-
densing water by its accumulation in the first tubes served as a kind
of wash bottle for the collection of any soluble material contained in
the gaseous emanation.
The next day we began preparations to meet the emergency thus
thrust on us by Gate in the laboratory of the Hawaiian Volcano
Research Association’ an extemporized mercury pump of the dis-

+The Hawaiian Volcano Research Association is organized under the general super-
vision of the Bishop Museum of Honolulu, and is in charge of Prof. T. A. Jaggar, of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to whom our most cordial thanks are offered for
many courtesies extended to us throughout our work at Kilauea. Mr. I’. B. Dodge, an
assistant in the association laboratory, accompanied us in the first descent into the
crater, and Dr. H. O. Wood, who is in charge of the seismologiec work of the station, on
the second, both rendering invaluable assistance in carrying out this difficult and some-
what hazardous task,
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
,

placement type and vacuum tubes especially arranged to meet the
conditions which we had found. These tubes were of the same ca-
pacity as the individual tubes in the previous experiment (one-half
liter), but were provided with a long stem, on the remote end of which
was blown a thin glass bulb. The plan was to attach these tubes to a
pole of convenient length and to thrust the end carrying the thin
bulb into the dome, where the heat might be expected to explode the
thin glass immediately, permitting the tube to fill with the gases, and
as quickly to seal it again by melting down the broken end. The
tubes were dried in contact with phosphorus anhydride and the de-
eree of exhaustion checked by electrical discharge tests from a small
static machine. When a number of these tubes had been prepared
and everything was ready for a second attempt, the top of the lava
dome had fallen in and the liquid lava in the basin had gone
down to such an extent that it offered no further opportunity to
collect gases under conditions which should assure original gas with-

out contamination from the air or otherwise. In fact no other op-
portunity offered until December 4.1

THE SECOND ATTEMPT TO COLLECT GASES.

On December 4, with the lava surface 360 feet below the rim, and
therefore even less conveniently accessible than on the previous occa-
sion, a similar dome formed directly on the border of the lava lake,
and the second attempt was made to collect a quantity of gas—this
time in the vacuum tubes. In order that there might be no possible
doubt. about the excess gas pressure within the lava dome, the
descent into the crater was made at night, when the pale blue flame
of the escaping gases could be plainly seen emerging from the crack
in the dome. The manner of collecting the gases was exactly that
which was planned and described above, and six tubes were filled
with gas under these conditions.

On descending into the crater to collect gases from the December
dome, it was found that in addition to a long sht or crack across the
top, from which the gases were discharging constantly, there was a
second opening near the base which was not noticed before the descent,
but which gave access to air at the base of the dome and thus behaved
like an air blast in a furnace. The gases were therefore partly
burned within the dome instead of outside, and the tubes, which were
filled at the upper opening, were accordingly found to contain chiefly
burned gases—that is, the free hydrogen had become water, the free
sulphur had burned to SO., the CO appeared as CO.,, ete.

Although the identity and something of the relation of the gases
discharged from the basin of Halemaumau can be established from a

1In the meantime one of the authors (Day) was obliged to return to Washington,
leaving the other (Shepherd) to finish the task alone.
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 285

study of the material collected in May, the determination of the exact
proportion of water to the other gases present must await another
favorable opportunity. It may perhaps be added that a complete
equipment for another attempt lies ready at the laboratory of the
Volcano Research Association on the crater rim, but the lava lake
disappeared completely from view soon after the December descent
was made and has not again reappeared.

Although the continuation of the field studies must await the
gracious pleainie of the most fickle of goddesses, it need not delay the
prosecution of the laboratory study of the relations between the gases
already found or the preliminary discussion of the results thus far
attained. Moreover, in the discussion which follows, evidence will be
offered that the composition of the gases varies within considerable
limits, so that the precise proportions of the gases which go to make
up the exhalation at any particular moment may prove to be of less
importance than was at first believed.

CHEMICAL STUDY OF THE MATERIAL COLLECTED.

From a physicochemical viewpoint, the study of volcanic activity
centers first on the nature of the participating ingredients, then on
the condition of equilibrium or the progress of the reactions taking
place between them, as the case may be. At the time of our two
visits all the three states of matter—gaseous, liquid, and solid—were
found represented. Gases were emitted constantly in great volume,
and displayed nearly all the great variety of cloud forms which have
been so frequently described in volcano literature except the violently
explosive type, which has been rarely or never seen at Kilauea since
the advent of the white man (1820). There was a liquid lava basin
of oval shape some 600 by 300 feet, inclosed by a lava dike or rampart
built up from the surrounding floor of the basin by the tumultuous
spattering and splashing of the lava lake (pl. 5). Both floor and
rampart are frequently overflowed when the lake is high, and again
great masses of it fall into the lake and are redissolved when it is
low. The fioor of the pit at the time of our first descent in May, 1912,
had been completely overflowed but three days before and was rea-
sonably level. The fresh lava had solidified to a depth of some 10
inches and was abundantly solid to walk on, but was still uncomfort-
ably hot and the cracks were still glowing.

Surrounding this floor are the walls of the pit, some 200 feet high
at the time of our first descent and made up of the exposed edges of
successive earlier overflows (pl. 6), which individually rarely ex-
eeeded 2 or 3 feet in thickness. The (Halemaumau) pit as a whole
was about 1,500 feet in diameter, roughly circular in plan, and with
nearly perpendicular walls except for the talus pile ‘at the base, which
extended about half way up the wall. All these dimensions vary
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

somewhat from day to day and considerably from year to year with
the state of activity in the basin. The appearance of the lake and its
surroundings is perhaps best shown by a photograph (pl. 7) made
from a slight elevation above the floor of the active basin on May
23, 1912.

ANALYSES OF THE LAVA,

The composition of the liquid lava in the lake and of the solid floor
of the Kilauea crater near the Halemaumau pit may be seen from
analysis la and 16, which follow:

TABLE 1. A
Analysis 1a, Analysis 1b.
Lava from floor of Kilauea: Forty Lava dipped from Halemaumau

to 50 per cent glass; 5 to 10 per cent July 23, 1911. Glass, with 1 per cent
olivine; 5 to 10 per cent feldspar’ feldspar and trace of crystals of either
phenocryst; rest very fine crystals. magnetite or pyroxene. Index 1.605,

(Merwin.) lining of bubbles slightly higher.
Percent. ( Merwin.)
SSC Gp ies TL ah ea imate 50. 07 Per cent,
D4 nk pes ale te tr a rot rs ato Ld 13.32)" SIO 2 ee eee 49. 74.
Fe.O;___- ER Se ee eee 1. 92 AloOgi) 2 SiR E AREY Sue eae 12. 36
OBC RED SET ere MEETS Ta eae 9, 28 Peg see ee ag 88 ee hee ree 1, 64
Rie et! 4, nese ee ONY Mie@a” at alin ye Eee er
(EN ESN SS SAR SP Ta 2 EE 10.,64. -; MgO). eX... ee eee eee 8. 83
ROOD ete (O) ee OE eel 2 ee Oia ae eB ks Gu CO) Miss Wen Uh Lae ee 10. 88
LSE) cs eT a a i ag SAS IN ei One Ses eae 2. 45
Did A Fi eal a a eal ech O° 49.0 SK Ost Se Poh ES ae 0. 55
DAG == it A Eo a a EE O22) MEO Re See Eo Ee ee ee 0.17
CO 5e5 I 20 2 A ee None: 44 LO st 2u ue ae ae 0. 05
AMOR Se ees ee ees are Di 10 (ROO? oe. Se ee ee eee None
PAV Os ae A a NONE 4 RIO oye ee ee eae Se ee 2.49
LER Ope LR oS SA ae eee OP ZO AW ZO sae 2 Wis ae oa eee Trace.
1S ess carn lS a NODGS > 3PuOke a. a 0. 41
CO a ht Pl Sa a 0. 08 SO gh at Ses eee ee Trace
lied. DReh sted Ree ees Bree eee eee NOME! OIE Pcey 2 ee eee 0. 10
So Sa ae Og a oe a 0. Tsp Wells 24s Le eee None
OTTO PRUs SPIN: Ce SRNR «lee eae Oh .OB Se a 0. 04
(Min @ nee eee Bee ee O.16 Cr Ogee eee eee 0. 04
nC) Rea Eat es ee a 0:04 0 MnO 222222 2 eee 0. 14
TOV G lat elie SE eI None.) NiOw 22 UA ee eee 0. 05
Sr et LA P82 Trace. GBaOss! {oleae ) ae Trace
LIST O ogee 2) SSL oe Os None) SrOQ.saeo2 cuca at) tee 0. 07
eee a ne lp a Sw None... isOc sah LeU ee eee ees None
Awe Bom pin a sg el None.» VsQse. 22 ee eee 0. 02
MOO ies soko eet ates Oe eS Trace: . ‘Rare earths. 2.3 eee eee Trace.
Teiition Tossa. et | eee 0:36." MOOs. en ee ee 0. 01
99. 96 100, 12

|

After correction for Cl, ete___-- 99.89 After correction for Cl, ete..--- 100.08
‘aINSOdX9 Ot] 10}}B SJUSWIOUT AVF BORE 9Y OUT [Tay eamiotd ayy Jo 19yU00
Of} FO IOT OYF OF OLATT B OXTP oy Jo uofrod VW “WMOYS TAAL SI BART 0] JO Surso}eds ay) 0} oNp OYIp SuIsopoUT oy ‘Foye 109) ¥ ATOIIpPEUIUMT TOAD OY) UITIIM USAR,

“(CLBL ‘8g AVI) SONVY 3SO1D LV 3XV] VAY] SHL 4O MSA

*¢ ALVId *preydays pue Aeg—'¢|6| ‘Hodey urjuosyziWs

sa

‘BART OATIO“ OY} VAOGB IYOUS JO 9OUDSGB OY} OJON “41d 9} JO [[BA\ SuISO[OUT oy) Os[e SurMoyg

“(ElL6L ‘6S ANN) SAONVY 3SO1D LV 3NV7] VAY] SHL SO MAA

— agpte,

-
sete
BE aS

"9 31LV1d ‘paaydays pue Aeq— e161 ‘Hodey ueiuosy}iLUS
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 287

The sample 1b was dipped from the middle of the lava lake on
July 23, 1911, by Mr. Frank A. Perret and one of the authors (Shep-
herd), with the help of a cable and trolley, stretched directly across
the center of the pit, and appropriate tackle. The sample la was
taken from one of the recent overflows on the main floor of the
Kilauea crater and may perhaps be 15 or 20 years old. The sub-
stantial identity of the analyses with each other and with other
recent analyses of the lavas of Hawaii* shows that no material
change in its composition has taken place in recent years. The most
noticeable feature of the new analyses is perhaps the presence of a
small amount of molybdenum, which appears not to have been de-
tected hitherto. The analyses were most carefully made by Mr.
John B. Ferguson, of this laboratory, to whom we take this oppor-
tunity to express our thanks.

THE GASES AND DIFFERENT WAYS OF STUDYING THEM.

The problem of collecting voleanic gases which are satisfactory
from the chemical viewpoint is a much more difficult matter, as has
been already intimated. Hot gases of more or less complicated com-
position discharged from an active volcanic vent into the air undergo
immediate and violent chemical and temperature changes, the conse-
quences of which, with our present limited knowledge of gas relations
at these temperatures, can be only partly inferred. It is therefore a
matter of the first importance to collect the gases directly from the
liquid lava or the explosive vents before contact with the air has given
opportunity for these alterations to occur. It may very well be that
the physical difficulties attending the collection of volcanic exhala-
tions, particularly from volcanoes of the explosive type, will often
make it impossible to obtain unaltered magmatic gases for laboratory
study, in which case burned gases, or even very dilute mixtures of
these with air, may prove to be the only products available for study.
In this event the student must perforce bow to the necessities of the
case,

Something of the same cautious attitude requires to be maintained
toward the study of the flame spectra of burning volcanic gases. The
pocket spectroscope is primarily an instrument of preliminary recon-
naissance in the field and is sometimes of value, but the pale-blue
flames of sulphur and hydrogen are extremely difficult to analyze
with the pocket spectroscope, and can not be distinguished at all
against a bright background of solid or liquid lava. For this reason

1This expedition was sent out by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Prof.
T. A. Jaggar) in the summer of 1911 for the purpose of securing a trustworthy measure-
ment of the temperature in the lava lake. The record of the expedition has not been
published.

a A. Daly: Magmatic differentiation in Hawaii. Journal of Geology, vol. 19, 1911,
p. 305.

W, T. Brigham ; Loe. cit., p. 33.
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

a more elaborate spectroscopic equipment would not help the matter.
Moreover, the gases are much altered or are in process of active
alteration before any opportunity for identification is offered, and
no estimate of the relative quantity of the various participating
gases is possible by this means. Inferences from the chemical study
of gases which have been burned by contact with the air while still
hot and inferences from the spectroscopic study of the gases while
burning therefore suffer alike from limitations of principle and
should be resorted to only when the difficulty of collecting unaltered
gas is insuperable.

These reasons may serve to show why this somewhat elaborate
effort was made to collect unaltered gases for laboratory study and
why we are inclined to give greater weight to the results obtained
from the study of such gases than to many of the earlier studies? of
voleanic emanations, in which the gases had become altered through
contact with the air or otherwise.

The domes from which these gases were collected were built up by
the lava itself on the floor of the crater (Halemaumau) and were
both chemically and physically ideal gas collectors, being lined with
fresh splashes of liquid lava of the same temperature and chemical
composition as that from which the gas had just emerged. They
formed at the level of the lava lake and, as could be plainly seen
after the collapse of the domes, were directly connected with the
lake by channels of liquid lava just below the surface crust. The
collapse of the entire channel leading to the May dome is shown in
plate 8, figure 1, in which an arrow (t+) has been placed to indicate
the position where the dome stood. The May dome was under con-
stant observation for several days and a considerable portion of the
night immediately previous to the collection, during which time
there was no cessation of the lava fountain spouting within the dome
nor of the flames of the burning gases as they escaped through its
cracks. Furthermore, as the larger bubbles rose and burst from the
liquid Java within the dome, the jar could be felt on the floor where
the collectors stood and the splash could be plainly seen through the
cracks. — fie

se ANALYSES OF THE GASES COLLECTED IN MAY, 1912.

The following analyses were made of the fixed gases collected in
glass-tubes on May 28, 1912, in the manner above described. ‘The
statement is given in parts by volume. The tubes were numbered
from 1 to 20 in the order in which the gases entered from the voleano.
Allthe tubes contained condensed water (the first—pl. 8, fig. 2,
containing nearly 100 cu. em.), of which analyses will be feund- on
page 292. saasde,

1H. g., Wm. Libbey: Amer, Journ, Sci. (8), vol. 47, 1894, p. 371.
‘IaJOWIBIP UL Joo] OF INO SI arqqnq Sursing ogy, “punosrse10y 9y} ur BART Ador JO UOIBUIIOJ VY] PUB YS PUB IJoT YIOG MOYAVAO oY] OJON

“(SL6BL io? AVIA) ALIAILOWY SLVYSGO|) SO GOlYad V NI 3JIOHM V SV 3xXV7] SHL SO MIA

“LZ 3LV1d ‘praydays pue Aeg—¢16| ‘Hodey uejuosyyWS
‘SYSLVM SINVOTIOA GASNSGNOO0 SONINIVLNOO 38NL GNV G3L037700 3YaM S3SVD S3YSHM 3yV7

‘sIoJ9UIN Us) 3

10 OOL JNOQ®B ST ‘OH Bl 94] Jo

Ayyuenb sy A+Ppesuepuoo BUuTMOYg UNI’ UB SPU9}X9 SONSST PNO[Y 9Y} LOY M YOVIO oy} YJBVoOUS ‘“poOojs pRy oMOp ayy sey ooryd (f) SsUIMOUS
“SISATVNW YOS AGVAY AYOL “(SL6L ‘So ANNP)
-VuyOEdV] SHL NI | “ON 38NL JO MAlA—"S ‘SI4 G3L93T1090 3Y3AM S3SV5) YALSV SAVG SAI4 YOOT4 GSYSLLVHS SHL GNV 3aXNV7 JO M3IA—"| ‘OI4

°8 ALV1d

*paaydaus pue Aeq—'¢e|6| ‘YH d 94 UBIUOSUPIWS
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 289

TABLE 2.—The gases from Halemaumau (Kilauea), May, 1912.

[Percentages by volume.}

Tube 1. | Tube 2. | Tube 8. | Tube 10. | Tubo 17.

Wipe encanto so ase setae coos ac sales Ses esees

THE INFLUENCE OF THE IRON COLLECTING TUBE.

In the 15 minutes during which pumping was continued the short
length of iron pipe which extended into the dome was partly de-
stroyed by the joint action of the sulphur and SO,. Owing to the
high temperature and the splashing of the molten lava, neither
glass nor porcelain would have withstood the ordeal, and a tube of
silica glass was, unfortunately, not available; so that iron appeared
to be the best material at hand through which to reach the interior
of the dome and to insure the capture of the gases at the temperature
of emergence from the lava (about 1,000°) before any opportunity
for cooling or contact with air had been given.

The effect of this small section of iron pipe on the relations between
the gases collected in the tube is not as great as might at first appear.
The action of SO, on iron at this high temperature is quite vigorous,
the iron going over to ferrous oxide and setting free the sulphur.
But both these ingredients are present in the lava already, as may
be seen from the analyses (Table 1), so that no new component. is
added, nor is any new reaction precipitated through the introduction
of the iron. It might be assumed further that the free hydrogen
present would be partly oxidized to water in reducing the ferrous
oxide formed from the SO, and iron (this is one of the reactions
when these components are brought together at this temperature in
the laboratory), but if this reaction has had a share in the disposi-
tion of our bit of exposed iron we must admit its presence in over-
whelming magnitude over the entire inner surface of the dome, which
is everywhere lined with liquid lava containing nearly 10 per cent
of ferrous oxide. The assumption of this reaction would therefore
have the immediate effect of establishing the presence of water in
quantity among the volcano gases and at the same time relegate the
influence of the iron tube to a position of entire insignificance.

There is still further evidence, if more is needed, that the local
reactions set up by the iron are of subordinate importance only in
their effect on the proportions of the gases collected, and of no effect
whatsoever on their identity and chemical relation. Supposing these

44863°—sm 1913——19
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

reactions to have occurred as described, it is then a matter of straight-
forward computation to show that if the known weight of iron which
was dissolved away by the gases, both those which entered the pipe
and those which merely played on its outside wall,t had reacted in
this manner; and supposing further that all the products of the
reaction, both outside and inside, entered the collecting tubes (which
is obviously impossible), it would have involved pumping through
the system some 225 liters of pure hydrogen as an equivalent for the
iron consumed, and this still falls short of the quantity required to
account for all the water collected by more than 40 per cent. More-
over, if the attempt is to be made to account for all the water col-
lected in our tubes through reactions requiring free hydrogen, it
is altogether inconceivable that any such quantity of uncombined
hydrogen is available in the emanation from the volcano. For if we
were to assume that as much as 1,000 liters of volcanic gas (which
is a very liberal estimate) passed into the collecting train in the 15
minutes during which the pumping was continued, such a quantity
of free hydrogen (375 liters) would be equivalent to 40 per cent of
the total composition, a quantity sufficient to form an explosive mix-
ture on contact with air of such extreme violence as to change the
entire character of the volcanic activity at Halemaumau. It is a
fact of general observation that the bubbles of gas which come up
through the liquid lava, even when they reach the enormous size
of 30 feet in diameter, give no explosion whatsoever.

We may therefore fairly conclude, both from the character of the
reactions in which the iron might have a part and from the quantity
of water collected, that the presence of the iron tube has no consider-
able significance in relation either to the character or to the amount
of volatile material collected.

THE REACTION BETWEEN H. AND SO, OR CO,.

To this reaction assumed to be going on between H, and FeO may
be added another and much more important one in which the iron
has no part. The free hydrogen set free by the volcano reacts with
sulphur dioxide at 1,000° to give water and free sulphur directly.
Tt will also be recalled that carbon dioxide and hydrogen undergo
similar reaction at this temperature. This is the familiar water-
gas reaction

HCO, = "CO--ELO
which has been thoroughly studied by Haber? and others throughout
the entire range of temperatures found to prevail at this volcano, and
may be accepted without limitation as an important factor in the
ferrous oxide and about 8 per cent of sulphur.

2See, for example, F, Haber: “ Thermodynamik technischer Gasreactionen,” p. 158.
Miinchen, 1905.
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 29]

activity which we are studying. It follows directly from this that
the chemical analyses of volcano gases offered by Brun in support of
his conclusion that the exhalations from Kilauea and other volcanoes
are anhydrous, also carry on their face the clear proof that his con-
clusion is untenable. Neither CO, nor SO, can be associated with
free hydrogen at temperatures in the vicinity of 1,000° without the
formation of water. The two analyses offered by Brun of the gases
given off on reheating the Kilauea lava show them to be chiefly made
up of precisely these ingredients (loc. cit., p. 115) :

Brun’s analyses of gases obtained from Kilauea lava when heated in vacuo.

af 2.

Ke pee ee Se TraAcesye Cl) si Rey see SS OO EA 5. 58
AS), al glo el ae a Lesh Gol 29) Cot pei ce Ml ch IRE d bein b
OY Oe eel area. >, ee 50.8 | SOs ____ Bite Pear iatel oe Bes! i 4/2 47/7.
CLG ean: Seeene ss SRR eee oe NT Bil) COR Se Sheree, Fis koe Sees ees, 69. 09
15 Eee Se ES EES TR al ee a 285 WC Oy ee. 2 BE ea ee 11. 60
J Ee Se aR i A SS ES eT a a 9 Kee? aK Oo (espe ey Sao LOE Si

egestas ie, Wace ie gee ee 6. 10

Peg RTH! tkasy aa ae Sy 0.3

It is, furthermore, noticeable that the analyses here offered by Brun
as representative of the gases emanating from Halemaumau do not in
any way agree with the composition of the gas which we obtained
from liquid lava. He finds, for example, in one analysis more than
7 per cent of chlorine in one form or another where we find 0.02 per
cent or less, He obtained about 5 per cent of SO,, whereas SO, dur-
ing our visit was perhaps the most notable gas evolved from this
crater.

THE RELATIVE QUANTITIES OF THE CONSTITUENT GASES.

Leaving now the question of the identity of the gases discharged by
the lava at Halemaumau, we should perhaps turn for a moment to
the consideration of their relative quantity, which, as already inti-
mated, is not so well established by our samples because of the unex-
pected presence and condensation of the water in the collecting tubes.

In addition to the presence of the iron tube, and its possible effect
on the total quantity of water and of free sulphur collected in our
tubes, which has been discussed above, our analyses of the gases
(p. 289) are subject to a second limitation which is at once obvious.
When the pumping had been completed, the collecting tubes each con-
tained a quantity of the condensed water, in which the fixed gases
are individually soluble in varying degree both during and after
cooling. There is also some reaction between the gases and water.
The long period which elapsed between the date of collecting the
gases and their analysis in Washington after the close of the field
season—nearly a year—gave opportunity for these readjustments to
proceed practically to completion, The SO,, for example, has gone
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

over in part or altogether to SO, and gone into solution, and only
two of the five tubes analyzed now show SO, as such. Moreover, the
resulting acid solution may have reacted to a limited extent on the
glass tube, and accordingly be responsible for all or a part of the
alkalies, lime, and alumina shown in analyses of the water (table 3).

PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS OF ONE TUBE OF GAS IN HONOLULU.

For this reason some importance attaches to a preliminary and very
hasty analysis of the contents of one of the tubes (No. 3) made but
four days after the collection, for which the College of Hawaii most
courteously extended the facilities of its chemical laboratory at Hono-
lulu. This preliminary analysis was undertaken solely as a precau-
tion against the consequences of a possible total loss of the material
collected through accidents of transportation.

Owing to the limited facilities, it was not possible to make a com-
plete analysis; but in tube No. 3 shaking with water reduced the total
volume of gas by 51.6 per cent, which may fairly be assumed to repre-
sent the SO, in this particular tube. As there was a quantity of the
condensed volcano water in the tube already, this merely reveals the
quantity of SO, in excess of the quantity already taken up by this
water, The carbon dioxide of this tube amounted to 39.8 per cent.
but was probably contaminated with some SO,. The CO amounted
to 5.5 per cent. The hydrogen and nitrogen could not be determined,
but there was not enough hydrogen in the residual gas to form an
explosixe mixture when mixed 1:1 with air. The water in this tube
gave a very slight turbidity with acid silver nitrate and a slight pre-
cipitate of SO,. This latter represents the amount formed in the
tube in the time which elapsed between the collection and analysis
(four days). This tube gave no test for titanium.

Hydrocarbons could not be detected in any of the tubes.

THE MATERIAL PRESENT IN THE WATER.

The water which was collected in the first tubes of the series may
fairly be assumed to contain practically all of the halogens. The
analysis of this water is given in Table 3.

TABLE 3.—Analyses of material contained in the water collected in the tubes.

Tube 1. Tube 2. Remarks.
Grams. Grams.
DOE OLED EL RE Sto ae re ae As 2a ee ae 0.0214 0. 031
MPS. Fane dS  ARELE S ERS. LEE Se 2 - 0102 -011 |]The major portion of these
CaO rsa stte eet, aes ko ne, Fao i eran reel. 0120 -14 may have come from the
Fe.O; 080 010 glass or from Pele’s hair.
AlsO3 Pee ee eee eee we ee ewe te eee eee eee ewe cones Ul .
Me FET eS PSS da sae . 220 . 206
epee. cours Se Eero. Sg fa es ae ee . 565 - 492
WWiktyss. AGS VA. SA... a SE . 0018 0
TST Waser ects: ak ea tciniore raw aie fc riot ee eee - 005 (2) oO |
TotalisiasiSOguee ll: RSW. wee Se arses 480 508 |

WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 293

It is not improbable that most of the alkalies, lime, and alumina
have resulted from the action of the acid liquid on the glass tubing,
but it is of the greatest importance to establish the fact that the en-
tire quantity of gas pumped through the “wash bottle” yielded no
more than 0.4 gram of chlorine. If this be calculated in the form of
gas, 1t will correspond at most to 0.02 per cent, assuming that ap-
proximately 1,000 liters of gas were drawn into the tubes. Fluorine
seems to be present in about twice this quantity, but in no sense can
these halogens be regarded as forming more than a very minor part
of the crater exhalation.

RARE GASES.

In the progress of the analyses, after all the active gases had been
removed from the several tubes analyzed, there remained an inactive
residue which, of course, consisted mainly of nitrogen, but which
might be supposed to contain traces of argon, helium, or other of the
rare Inert gases, should any such chance to have been present in the
volcano emanation. For the determination or detection of these sev-
eral of the residues were brought together in a spark tube and ex-
posed for several hours, in the presence of oxygen, to an alternating-
current spark discharge of considerable intensity. When the volume
of residual gas could no longer be diminished by this means, there
remained a final residue of 75 cubic centimeters of gas, which was
forwarded to Prof. R. W. Wood, of Johns Hopkins, who very kindly
offered’ to make a spectroscopic examination of it for traces of the
rare gases. The search yielded a decisive negative result. No lines
characteristic of any of the rare gases could be found with the
spectroscope, nor did exposure to charcoal at the temperature of
liquid air leave any residue whatever. The gas examined was, there-
fore, all nitrogen. Subsequently the residues (15 cubic centimeters)
from another group of the tubes were treated in the same way and
forwarded to Prof. Wood, who was again able to detect nothing but
pure nitrogen. It appears to be definitely established, therefore, that
the gases collected from Halemaumau in May contain nitrogen but
no argon. This affords a most desirable confirmation of our belief
that the volcano gases were successfully collected before they had
come in contact with atmospheric air at all, and were therefore en-
tirely uncontaminated either by reaction or admixture with it. It
also offers support to the view that the volcanic nitrogen is not of
atmospheric origin—to which further allusion will be made in the
concluding paragraphs.

1 We desire to take this opportunity to thank Prof. Wood for courteously offering to
examine these gas residues. The Geophysical Laboratory at Washington possesses
neither the equipment nor the special experience necessary to undertake a spectroscopic
study of this critical character.
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
THE GASES COLLECTED IN DECEMBER, 1912.

From the gases which were collected in vacuum tubes on December
4, 1912, much less information is obtainable than from the May col-
lection, in spite of the more elaborate preparations made for the
second attempt. This was wholly due to the fact already mentioned,
that the dome from which the December gases were collected proved
on near approach to be an imperfect one, which permitted the en-
trance of air and a partial combustion of the gases within the dome.
Six individual vacuum tubes (two of one-half liter capacity and four
of 250 cubic centimeters) were automatically filled and sealed off
within this dome and were brought to Washington in safety, but
were found on opening to contain mixtures of volcano gases and air,
such as might be expected from exposure to the temperature at which
they were collected (about 1,000°). There is, of course, no more rea-
son for expecting the chemical reaction between the gases and air to
have proceeded to an equilibrium than in the case of the reactions
between the volcanic gases alone, whence the analyses of the gases
contained in these tubes may be expected to show very variable
proportions.

In stating the analyses the free oxygen found has been subtracted,
together with a corresponding portion of the nitrogen appropriate to
the normal composition of air. Probably more of the nitrogen should
have been subtracted as an equivalent for the oxygen taken up in the
combustion of the sulphur products and carbon monoxide, but the
amount would be difficult to fix in view of the reactions between the
volcano gases themselves and it has not been attempted. The analyses
at best add but little to the knowledge already obtained.

TABLE 4.—Analyses of gases collected in December, 1912.

[Percentages by weight.]

Tube 2. | Tube3. | Tube5.

COE Pe es eRe ee ens SE Seis cicteiale Cs sb SRL eeceh ees see ee es 49.6 33.7 45.4
IN ig eee Re ecient cichene vee eclatsis io otis: a aim wis SiS Siacw mee ehotarn alates area 24.1 32.1 21.3
Ree Rr eee ieee cote wis oda UV aceees ELM gees cB osmieags 26.2 26.6 29.7
PO ree eee tee ane Seiae MeN Ee Ee ele ee sais meinia oe acne Womens Salt matiee 7.6 S20
Cae ES yar at OP eames. IT nt card aad dias ee a eb eae wee Trace 0 .0

mt) .0

If we make the only available assumption, namely, that the oxygen
which is now present as water, if it came from the air, must have left
behind a corresponding amount of nitrogen, then the amount of
nitrogen found in these three vacuum tubes is in every case two or
three times too small. For example, in tube No. 2, if all the oxygen
now contained in the water came from admixed air, there should
have been at least 240 cubic centimeters of nitrogen in this tube
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 295

instead of 74 cubic centimeters, as actually found. There is but one
conclusion, namely, that only the minor portion of the water found
in the tubes was formed through reaction with atmospheric oxygen.
Here again, therefore, we have corroborative evidence of water
emanating directly from the liquid lava.

None of these vacuum tubes gave a test for ammonia, which is not
surprising, since the water collected in May showed only a trifling
amount. With the possible exception of 5 milligrams of insoluble
residue found in tube No. 1 of the May collection, ho titanium was
present. The other tubes of the series yielded none on test.

THE HOT EMANATIONS FROM CRACKS ABOUT THE HALEMAUMAU CRATER.

It was thought desirable to collect and analyze the gases from a
number of the hot cracks which occur outside the rim of the Hale-
maumau pit (see pl. 1) for comparison with the gases exhaled from
the liquid lava. One of the cracks forms an almost complete ring
around the pit at a distance of about 150 meters from the rim.
While this crack appears practically continuous, there are a number
of points where the gaseous exhalations are much more voluminous
than at others. The small steam cloud in plate 1 comes from this
erack. The temperature of the gases obtained at points on this cir-
cular crack and some 10 feet below the surface were quite uniformly
between 190° and 200°.

At the most noticeable of these “ hot spots,” locally known as the
“ Devil’s Kitchen ” or “ Postcard Crack,” and situated northeast of
the Halemaumau pit, the surface lava flows are much decomposed,
and consist of a coarse, somewhat sandy mixture of calcium sulphate,
alum, ferric sulphate, and much free sulphur. In the gaseous exhala-
tion the amount of SO, occurring as such is relatively high, while
CO,, SO,, and free sulphur are also present in large quantities. A
vacuum tube filled at this point yielded in weight per cents:

[Per cent by weight. ]

EG) cae A Ta A RS a at ati ig eggs RG (6 2 |
yee ee eeeM ess Dead tee 2 See ee es eS SE Sh 19. 54
Ty oa ed NB DE a tee an Nn ca SP ig in AONE eNO em Ee al oft (0b
TMs) oot ee eg tse RR i oe oe ee ee 2 ee OSE
SO,7_ = pues aa ees SS ORS es Pah a ES eh AS trea BS tar 37

Other tubes which were filled by pumping at this crack were found to
contain fixed gases as follows:

[Per cent by volume. ]

ROC ee cr el Ae Ne a OE Shed de oo Stl, 3 Sk 5.8
0 SERIES SUES Ye gear SRST soe i pe hc Se oe age a ae Sees SESE: TT 18. 2

1 The total sulphur computed as SOx.
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

while the water (about 20 cubic centimeters) yielded:

Gram.
Ye a se acs A aa 2 0, 05138
| AS aa AG AE Lae IN ae i ES ee Ibe a . 0079
Fo el eg ce eg el Mt ree Ht 2 ha eee eS eg ey ola
WHe2 S60 toe Se Ee ee eee 0

Another spot of great gaseous activity occurs in this circular crack
near the terminus of the automobile road and southeast of the center
of the active pit. The vacuum tube taken at this point yielded:

[Per cent by weight. ]

0, 0s ye ie Sel ea eee re A RE tN Ea 8.12
OEP LE ST NN SEGA a Ue EE eb A oh SS 14. 58
BON ee aie er ee wh a AS a oe a Se eae 51. 20
1&0 nice AS SE RES OE Satan eee nee Be Dees Tyee RED Pee 25. 49
Oar Npewprg: shee whale Ses ee Or ey 2 ie Es lowed ate ge . 59
MO Babs iA Srey Ste ake AN eT Nh ee NI Fa see yay, LE undet

The water contained in the tube which was filled by 15 minutes’
pumping at this point (amounting to about 15 cubic centimeters)
yielded the following:

Gram
(CU oR a eet nee ee ee ee nee Ene Pom a OLS 0. 0298
LINE oP ih tS Tia Pet NN A eg a eR eres ce emmy Deny ee Ls Ds 0
ro as el ae Aiello eR pe a I ec EAL Les Te . 656

Fifty meters to the northeast of this point, along the same crack,
the gas obtained was merely moist air, with a trace of SO, and
uncertain traces of Cl.

About 100 meters south of the terminus of the automobile road is
a moist region, where the decomposed lava rock was found to be more
or less saturated with sulphuric acid, the decomposition products
being black rather than the bright sulphur yellow prevailing at the
points above described. A vacuum tube taken in this region, which
is again on the circular crack surrounding the pit and nearly due
south of it, yielded :

[Per cent by weight. ]

Ree Pen ee 18.18
Me I i ae a 63. 85
eee ee er oe ee 7. 81
Ope ree tebe See ee a ee ee eee 5i
Og 8 tad hee ol i et Oo be ee a 0

The water condensed in a tube filled by pumping at this point
yielded about 3 milligrams of chlorine, but no flourine.

With regard to the chemical products along this circular crack
about the crater basin of Halemaumau, we can sum up by saying that
water, although no doubt partly of meteoric origin, was always pres-
ent at the time of our visit, and the gases were prevailingly high in
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 297

carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, and sulphur trioxide. Only at the
automobile road terminus was chlorine found to be present in an
amount sufficient to show appreciably in a field test.

Cracks farther removed from the Halemaumau pit show in some
cases small amounts of SO,, but more frequently exhale merely steam.
Thus in caves where stalactites are forming at a temperature of about
40°,! the gas present was in all cases examined merely air and steam
and contained no more CO, than is normally contained in the air.
The formation of the stalactites in this cave is accompanied by the
formation of gelatinous silica in the presence of some kind of green
alge. As might be expected, neither carbon monoxide nor hydrogen
was detected in the gases taken from these cracks.

SUBLIMATION AND DECOMPOSITION PRODUCTS.

Numerous samples of decomposed lava were taken from various
points around the crater where the alteration of the surface lava is
conspicuous. While the examination of these is not complete, the
preliminary results can be summed up by saying that the samples
consist primarily of the products to be expected from a sulphuric
acid decomposition of the usual basic lava. In most of the places
where these samples were gathered the surface is constantly bathed
by the volcanic cloud carrying SO,, SO,, and free sulphur, together
with steam; which ingredient predominates is of no particular in-
terest, so far as the general problem of surface alteration is concerned.
In addition to the gaseous products, the breaking down of the lava
results in ferric sulphate, which is formed more or less rapidly from
the oxide in presence of steam. Alum occurs at favorable places over
most of the main floor of the Kilauea Crater, but the amount is rela-
tively small. Gypsum is perhaps the most common decomposition
product which is left, and this occurs all over the crater. Projecting
lava points on the under side of a lava block will often be found
tipped with small crystals of gypsum.

Since the gases collected point uniformly to the conclusion that the
amount of chlorine given off by the crater at the time of our studies
was relatively insignificant, it seemed worth while to look for it, as
Brun had done, in the older lava which had been exposed to the
fumes of the crater for several years. A specimen of lava was ac-
cordingly taken on the lee side of the crater rim, where it had been
fumed with the gases carried over it by the trade winds for 20 years
or more. This lava in a 2-gram sample yielded no test for chlorine.
This result is not as satisfactory as it might otherwise be from the
fact that the major portion of the exhalation of the volcano is SO.,

1W. T. Brigham: ‘‘ The volcanoes of Kilauea and Mauna Loa on the Island of Hawaii,”
p. 29. Honolulu, 1909.
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

which, when combined with water, readily changes to sulphuric acid
and would tend to drive the chlorine out of any combinations which
it might form. It constitutes, nevertheless, a plain indication that
the amount of chlorine actually evolved is insignificant.

DISCUSSION OF RESULTS.
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS,

In so far, then, as this reconnaissance yields final results, it shows
that the gases evolved from the hot lava at the Halemaumau Crater
are N,, H,O, CO,, CO, SO,, free H, and free S, with Cl, F, and per-
haps NH,, in comparatively insignificant quantity. No argon or
other rare gases and no hydrocarbons were found.

THE EFFECT OF THE REACTIONS BETWEEN THE GASES.

The first plain conclusion which follows from the discovery of this
particular group of gases associated together at a temperature of
1,000° or more is that they can not possibly be in equilibrium there,
and that chemical action between them is still going on. Whatever
may have been the previous opportunities for chemical readjustment
among the gases as they rose in solution with the magma and were
gradually set free with the diminishing pressure, they are still in
process of active reaction when discharged into the air. Free sul-
phur, for example, could not have remained in permanently stable
association with CO,; neither could free hydrogen be found in stable
association with CO, and SO, at 1,000°.

THE EFFECT OF THE EXPANSION OF THE GASES.

Moreover, as the pressure continued to diminish during the progress
of the upward movement, the quantity of gas released from solution,
and therefore free to enter into new relations, must have been con-
stantly and rapidly increasing up to the moment of discharge into
the air.

Two consequences follow from the continuation of this operation,
which are thermally opposite in sense. First is the rapid expansion
of the gases with the release of pressure, which is a cooling phenome-
non, and which, if the expansion takes place suddenly from a high
pressure into the air, might finally be extremely rapid.

AN EXPLANATION OF THE FORMATION OF AA LAVA.

Parenthetically, it may be noted in passing that such rapid expan-
sion and consequent cooling when occurring suddenly at the surface
may very well be the sufficient cause of the Aa lava formations.
Great blocks appear to have cooled in this way so rapidly that no op-
portunity was given for the suddenly projected and rapidly ex-
panding lava outbursts to “ heal” and resume liquid flow. The pro-
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 9399

jected masses are cooled almost instantly throughout their mass and
remain discrete blocks of the roughest and most ragged outline (pl.
9), which are pushed forward thereafter in a manner which has been
Hiatied to a “moving stone wall,” beneath which the advancing
liquid can rarely be seen. This hypothesis of the manner of forma-
tion of Aa lava has encountered no limitation from a field examina-
tion of Aa flows at the point of outbreak, and enjoys still further
confidence from the fact that this is almost the only conceivable
method of bringing about a nearly instant cooling throughout the
mass of a very large block of lava. (Aa blocks are sometimes re-
ported to reach the size of a small house.) Any manner of cooling
from the outside inward in such masses must have resulted in much
mechanical deformation during the forward movement after the
surface had “set,” causing rupture and outbursts of imprisoned
liquid, none of which were found in the field.

The rate of cooling of gases expanding adiabatically has been espe-
cially emphasized 3 Daly,’ who has contended that when the liquid
lava finds exit through a long and rather narrow pipe, like the vent
at Halernaumau, the pressure must diminish rapidly as the lava rises,
and the temperature must fall rapidly in accordance with the law of
adiabatic expansion. In order to maintain such an exposed surface
basin in the liquid state, it is then necessary to postulate a very high
temperature for the lava far below the surface,’ but this has serious
difficulties because of the chemical complications which would follow
from it.

CHEMICAL REACTION BETWEEN THE GASES.

The second consequence of the gradual release of gases is the in-
terreaction between the gases thus set free in constantly increasing
quantity as the surface is approached. These reactions are accom-
panied by evolution of heat, which obviously operates to raise the
temperature of the surrounding lava so long as the reacting gases
remain in contact with it. The heat generated by these gas reactions,
in the region near the surface where the amount of gas is large, may
well be much more than sufficient to counteract the cooling effect of
the expansion within the rising lava column, which may thus become
hotter and not cooler as it approaches the surface.

Precise figures can hardly be given for the difference in magnitude
between the two forces which have been assumed to oppose each other

1For other explanations of the formation of the Aa lava see Green, loc. cit., p. 171;
Hitchcock: ‘‘ Hawaii and its voleanoes,” p. 282. Dana: “ Characteristics of volcanoes,”
p. 241.

R. A. Daly: “ The nature of volcanic action.” Proc. Amer. Acad. Sci., vol. 47, 1911,
p. 84,

*Daly has calculated a temperature gradient of 2,000° per 37 meters of depth for the
rate of cooling of the gas alone, but the calculation takes no account of the relatively
enormous mass of adjacent lava which must be cooled by the gas.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

here, the adiabatic cooling on the one hand and the heat of reaction
between the gases on the other, for we do not yet know what all the
reactions are in such a complicated chemical system, nor do we pos-
sess any knowledge of the height of the lava column through which
the gases are free to react. In fact, if the tube which feeds the vol-
cano from below be supposed to contain both ascending and descend-
ing columns of liquid lava of widely variable temperature (Daly)
in which the circulation is primarily controlled by the (relatively
very large) differences of specific gravity, then it is indeed question-
able whether the common equations for adiabatic expansion find ap-
plication here at all. In any event, if we may assume such reactions
to be going on between the gases as:

H, + CO, = CO + H,O + 10,000 calories (Haber)
or

CO + 4 0, = CO, + 68,000 calories (Haber)
or the reaction between gas and lava:
38FeO + HO = Fe,O, + H, + 15,400 calories (Chamberlin)

then the effect of adiabatic cooling is certainly of negligible magni-
tude in comparison with these. This is reasoning far beyond the
data now in hand, but it serves to show that there is no cooling
effect of comparable magnitude with the heating effect of the reac-
tions going on within the active lava.

Tf the reactions quoted above afford a proper measure of the order
of magnitude of the heat quantity thus released by chemical reaction
within the tube and surface basin of the volcano, we have here hap-
pened on an enormous store of volcanic energy which reaches its
maximum temperature at the surface itself. It is by no means cer-
tain at the moment that this discovery throws any new light on
conditions far below the surface, except perhaps to relieve us of
the necessity of postulating extreme temperatures for the Java
chambers below, which on other grounds must be considered highly
improbable.*

1 Whether these gas reactions may serve as a source of heat through which to point
the resemblance between volcanic phenomena and geyser action (Daly) must be assigned
rather to the realm of geologic speculation. At all events, the superficial phenomena at
Kilauea would seem to find a serviceable explanation without requiring any of the ejecta
except the gases to be of deep-seated origin. Indeed, the outbreak in May, 1912, of a
lava stream from the talus immediately adjacent to the lava lake and some 40 feet above
its level (pl. 10) would seem to necessitate differences of pressure, and therefore
separate lava chambers, but short distances below the surface, in much the same ther-
modynamic relations as those supposed to exist between neighboring geysers of different
height and character. Hot gases from a common source percolating through chambers,
such as appear to honeycomb the Island of Hawaii, and reacting exothermally through-
out their journey as actively as a Bunsen burner, would appear to offer sufficient amount
and variety of power to accomplish all the visible activity now seen there.
NRUINRUID[R]T JO ISOMUJIOU S19}0UT QNG NOGY

“(SL6L ‘So ANN) YSLVYD VANVIIYM JO YOOT4 NIVIN SHL NO VAY

‘piaydaus pure eg—¢16| ‘HWoday ueiuosyyiws
"6 S31V1d
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 301]
VARIATIONS IN THE COMPOSITION OF THE GASES.

Tn full accord with the positive conclusion that these particular gases
can not exist togetherinstable equilibrium at the temperature at which
they are found, but are in process of active reaction, the record of the
analyses shows their composition to vary from one tube to another.
Successive tubes collected from the volcano at the same time (Table
2, p. 289) do not show the individual gases to be present in the same
proportions, but rather in proportions which change with every
bubble which bursts from the liquid basin.

VARIATIONS OF LAVA TEMPERATURE RESULTING FROM THE GAS REACTIONS.

Further confirmation of the same conclusion is found in the observa-
tion, already noted elsewhere, that when the gases given off by the
lava increase in quantity (pl. 11), the quantity of lava (lava level in
the basin) remaining the same, its temperature increases, and, con-
versely, when less gas is discharged through the lava this temperature
diminishes again. During the period of our visit in 1912 this change
in the temperature at the surface of the active lava in the basin
amounted in maximum to 115° (June 13, 1912, 1,070°; July 6, 1912,
1,185°), and is therefore much greater than could be explained in so
large a basin by fortuitous conditions of measurement. This absence
of equilibrium and consequent variability of composition is also in
accord with the observation of Perret and others at Vesuvius, that
the relative proportions of the gases vary greatly with the condition

of the crater.
EXPLOSIVE LAVAS (BRUN).

From the same viewpoint the laboratory observations of Brun on
“live” or “explosive ” lavas and, in contradistinction, “dead” lavas
acquire new and rational significance. In all the experience of the
Geophysical Laboratory with the thermal study of silicates, we have
found no natural rocks or minerals which did not set free gases in
considerable quantity when heated in the laboratory to a temper-
ature high enough to melt their chief constituents. Chamberlin,' in
his elaborate series of analyses of the gases contained in rocks, seems
to have had the same experience. If these studies together represent
sufficient breadth of experience to justify a sweeping conclusion, then
there are no “dead” rocks, meaning thereby igneous rocks, which no
longer release original volatile ingredients when heated to melting.
On the other hand, if we admit the nearly or quite universal distribu-
tion of gaseous ingredients in igneous rocks, but suppose these gases
were in equilibrium with each other throughout the solidification

1R. T. Chamberlin: The gases in rocks, Publications of the Carnegie Institution of
Washington, No, 106,
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

period, then reheating in the laboratory could discover no “ explo-
sive” rocks. The distinction “dead” rocks and “live” or “ explo-
sive” rocks loses all significance so long as it applies merely to rocks
containing gases in virtual equilibrium with each other, which merely
release the gas when heated. But immediately we understand that
in lavas carrying gases in solution or mechanical imprisonment the
gases shut up therein may react together, with release of heat, the
moment they are free to do so, “explosive” lava has a definite mean-
ing, and Brun’s experience (loc. cit., p. 55), that “ once the expansion
has commenced nothing [for example, withdrawal of the source of
heat] can stop it,” becomes a most illuminating one. Rapid expan-
sion of the reacting gases, together with the weakening of the inclos- —
ing walls through the accession of heat thussuppled from within may
very well produce explosive phenomena, in the sense in which Brun
used the term, either in nature or in the laboratory. It is otherwise
somewhat difficult to see how simple adiabatic expansion of a gas in-
closed in walls of obsidian, which are very viscous even at very high
temperatures, can produce “explosions” in the manner postulated
by Brun.
WATER AND THE BASIC MINERALS.

There is another conclusion which has been freely offered by those
who hold to the view that H,O can not be present as such in the
emanations from active volcanoes, of which a statement may be
found in the quotation from Green in the opening paragraph of this
paper. It states that “the basic minerals themselves give no indica-
tions, in the main eruptions, of having been in contact with water,
highly susceptible as they are to such an influence.”

It appears reasonably certain that the italicized portion of this
quotation (italics are ours) is dictated by the relation between basic
rock, liquid water, and air at comparatively low temperatures, and
to this extent it may very well be true. In the active volcano Kilauea,
however, we are dealing with gaseous H,O at a temperature above
1,000°; this is quite another matter. It is a part of our program to
endeavor to supply the lack of proper data about the relation between
the several gases found and the chief ingredients of the liquid lava,
and in view of the absence of such data at the present moment the
question raised can receive no very complete answer. It is, neverthe-
less, a comparatively simple matter to bring the powdered lava and
water together at 1,100° in the absence of oxygen. The result ap-
pears to support our view, for after several hours of the most in-
timate contact between the gaseous H,O and the lava no chemical
change whatever could be detected either in the “basic minerals ~
or the water. In so far as a qualitative experiment of this kind may
(Bp 9a1q} LOJ MOF 0} panurjUod apBoswo SI, “Io, ey) 01 II UTOI SUIMOY SUIBOI]S BABL 84} 910 “YS
INL “UWoXk} svar oInqord sty} etoyaq sUSTIOU Aaj BIN UISBq BY} JO apts JsaMYqIOU 9Y} UO afd sue? ]

} WOdJ SIN OIA opR B JUIMOYS
“(SL6OL ‘SS AVIN) JNV7 VAV7] SHL JO MSIA

‘OL atvid "piaydays pue Aeqg—'e16| ‘Hodey uerjuosy}iws

“TISB OY} UIYITM MOG JO SUOTJIAITP JUOIOYIP OY} OJON “J]OS}T BAB] OY} JO ISI] yy Aq 4YSTU 4B UHR SBM OANJoId SINT,

“(SLEOL ‘8 AINL) ALIALLOW WOWIXV|A] 3O GOIYSd SNIYNG 3XV7 VAY] 4O MalA

“LL aLW1d ‘piaudays pue Aeg—'e|6| ‘Hoday ueiuosyyiws
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY—DAY AND SHEPHERD. 303

be regarded as conclusive, this lava is not appreciably affected by
water at the temperatures which obtain in the lava lake up to the
time when the water leaves the lava and is discharged into the air.
Pending the acquisition of more detailed data, therefore, we may
leave this question in abeyance, with reasonable confidence that it
will be found to be in full accord with the fact otherwise established,
that water is present and participates actively in the volcanic activity

at Kilauea.
ORIGIN OF THE WATER.

If we now grant that water is present as an active ingredient of the
- liquid lava, in view of the positive character of the evidence offered,
then it becomes pertinent to inquire whether this water is of mag-
matic or of meteoric origin. Obviously, to this question no such
positive answer can be returned as that which was offered in support
of the main thesis of this paper. It is conceivable (1) that water
may have entered by infiltration of sea water from the surrounding
ocean, or (2) through more or less deep-seated infiltration of water
originally meteoric, or, finally, (8) that it may be considered strictly
magmatic in character and an original constituent of the lava.

The volcanoes of Hawaii are completely surrounded at no great
distance by the sea, which rises on their flanks to a height of 15,000
or 16,000 feet, according to charted soundings and the observations
of Dutton.t. The crater of Kilauea is about 15 miles from the nearest
approach of sea water, as recorded by the most modern surveys. The
rock is for the most part porous in high degree. Above sea level rain
falls almost daily on the island up to elevations of 7,000 or 8,000 feet.
Most of this meteoric water is deposited on the windward side? of
the mountains and the leeward portions are desert or nearly so. The
Kilauea Crater is situated on the flank of Mauna Loa at an elevation
of about 4,000 feet above the sea and is exactly on the ridge which
separates the region of rainfall from the desert of Kau. It is some-
what misleading to assume with Dana that the rainfall at the crater
is comparable with the rainfall at Hilo, the nearest considerable
town where meteorologic observations are made. Hilo is to wind-
ward of the crater and at sea level. At the Volcano House, still
some 3 miles to windward of Halemaumau, the rainfall tables lately
published by the United States Geological Survey give the annual
average for the years 1909-1911 as 78.7 inches at the Volcano House
and 136.5 inches at Hilo. It is also true, though it can not yet be

1C,. E. Dutton: Hawaiian voleanoes. Fourth annual report United States Geological
Survey, 1882-83.

2Tt will, of course, be recalled that the islands of the Hawaiian group are within the
trade-wind belt, and that the direction of the wind is very nearly constant throughout
most of the year, a,
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

supported by measured data, that the rainfall at Halemaumau is
even smaller than that recorded at the Volcano House, for at an equal
distance to leeward of Halemaumau the country is desert and prac-
tically without rainfall. The present crater les in the midst of this
transition zone from 78 inches to zero. Be that as it may, there is
a more or less abundant rainfall at Kilauea, even though the aggre-
gate amount is much smaller than has hitherto been supposed.

There is a further fact of observation which may be cited in this
connection. Wells have been bored on the sugar plantations at ele-
vations up to 2,000 feet on Hawaii and on the other islands. In
these borings water is invariably met with (so far as we were able
to learn) at sea level only. The water is ordinarily fresh, but a
heavy draft on it always has the effect of increasing its salt content,
and some of the wells have been permanently ruined for irrigation
purposes by this means.

So far as the conditions surrounding this voleano are concerned,
therefore, water in some form would seem to be very widely dis-
tributed except on the high mountains, and as freely available as
silica for active participation in any form of volcanic activity. In
the present preliminary survey of the situation it therefore appears
as if any attempt to assign the water found in the lava to one or other
of these three conceivable sources, or, perhaps better, to justify any
specific distribution of it among the three conceivable sources, must
be based on assumptions of a somewhat arbitrary and hypothetical
character. Nevertheless, there are some indications which inevitably
give direction to the probabilities which an individual observer may
fix on. First and most important, in our opinion, is the fact that
the nitrogen found in the emanation is free from argon. It is plain
that if atmospheric water is to reach a hot lava column at a tem-
perature of 1,000° or higher it must do so as a gas, and therefore
on the same terms as other atmospheric gases. Argon is invariably
contained in the air in measurable quantity and forms no chemieal
compounds. Whence it follows that if the gases of the atmosphere
had reached the liquid lava in any manner whatsoever the argon
would be released with the others, but no trace of argon was found.

The second difficulty is to conceive a mechanism whereby atmos-
pheric or surface water of whatever origin (for example, the sea)
can make its way into a lava column or basin at a temperature of
1,000° or more. The Daubrée experiment, whereby water vapor was
found to make its way through 2 centimeters of sandstone against
an excess pressure within, though often quoted in this connection,
does not help us to a solution of it. The force which was active in

—~
WATER AND VOLCANIC ACTIVITY——-DAY AND SHEPHERD. 305

Daubrée’s experiment is the surface tension of water only,' and water
will obviously have no surface tension above its critical temperature
of 374° (except perhaps in so far as salts in solution may have the
effect of raising this critical temperature slightly). This tempera-
ture passed, water must make its way precisely like any other gas
by diffusion through pores or by overcoming whatever chemical or
mechanical conditions it may encounter. The prospect is not an
encouraging one. The hydrostatic pressure at great depths of the
sea would appear to be the only sufficiently powerful agent to drive
water against a high adverse temperature gradient, but to invoke
this would be to invite nice distinctions of where “ magmatic” water
begins and “meteoric” water ends. The presence or absence of
chlorine is not a conclusive factor one way or the other, because the
physical processes of infiltration through porous rock and of distil-
lation are alike of such a kind as gradually to leave the dissolved
salts behind; this is illustrated by the fact that the bore holes yield
fresh water except when the infiltration is very rapid.

To us, therefore, such evidence as there is appears to indicate that
the water released from the liquid lava when it reaches the surface
is entitled to be considered an original component of the lava with
as much right as the sulphur or the carbon.

1“ Capillary forces are effective only when there is a surface of separation within the
pores. * * * Since the pressure discontinuity occurs only at the surface of separa-
tion, a column of liquid can be supported only when there is a free liquid surface within
thevcapillary. * | * *

“* « * As regards the influence of temperature on the surface tension of water, all
the investigations unite in showing that its surface tension decreases regularly with rise
of temperature, becoming zero, of course, at the critical temperature where there is no
surface of separation. The relation is practically linear when the whole range is con-
sidered ; it may be represented with sufficient accuracy by the formula,

¢ t==78 — 0.21 ¢ or 0.21 (370—7)

where ¢¢ is the surface tension at ¢° (temperature centigrade) expressed in dynes per
centimeter.

“*« * * From this * * +* it is evident that the pressure producible by capil-
larity is insignificant in comparison with the hydrostatic pressure, except for very fine
pores * * * and this minuteness of the pores leads us to inquire what amount of
water could actually flow through them. * * * Assuming the mean viscosity of the
water to be 0.005 (its value at a temperature of 30°), the amount of water flowing
through a pore of diameter 1 y# ji. e., 1/25,000 inch) would be about 15 x 10-6 ce, per
year. * * * Now, if we make the very generous estimate that 10 per cent of the
volume occupied by the rock consists of pore spaces * * * the quantity of water
flowing would be only 15 cc. per sq. cm. of surface per year. * * * Jf the diameter
of the pores is 0.01 » the amount of water flowing would be 0.0015 cc. per sq. cm. of
surface per year. * * * In other words, a period of 1,000 years would be required
for a quantity of water equivalent to 1.5 cms. (about one-half inch) of rain to flow past a
given horizontal plane.

“* * * It appears, therefore, as if the probabilities were all against the notion
that appreciable amounts of meteoric water can ever penetrate into deep-seated and
highly heated rock masses.” (John Johnston and L. H. Adams: “ Observations on the
Daubrée experiment and capillarity in relation to certain geologic speculations.” Journal
of Geology, vol. 22, in press, 1913.)

44863°—sm 1918——20
Phat ot diaeE Now uiiaviniiarariod att 9d ot saree aa

< c Aaese re rites MES YK; BW: eri Sa tie) om cutee oie Arms §

‘ .F a Nesta’ ae

Fonte siege a. “aa pede pire brs ae

+ inna 93. agi: Mon ib ody. rid evaqginr: 4, genre ded. (A

Bran att wis esate cops tall, appt enti»

. ee iad oT v2bie tii” (eae
ie sind, Meal: cahh. to 29H. 000.40 et ouiul seh) ;

' uy BT ht isa Eee vate is scot lap ha Jo 990

" erie os ea ft iat a idl habe ‘“ ire
Mhige: Ean ik Towed iy mn asl, fees Aes
1, a a viii aM eanaly $n hh Roe ae
| . ist epee. de: Rely rVarhae api, odk inert hy hoenal
“Ate aks is apron oaitns Lnigic thy h “yale ak ee

2 oe. Bt AAR wit 0 (Gh ge at iar
ay 3 bath ‘hey aan. LG ssa ‘amie afew vias igi
Mates ero! Mate dae HENS eriege est? ikcgee Ty, NaN AR De one aoe
ii ere of ae. aay * ce cory beatae AR DERE 1 88 aS

ears arti Pep erah copii, sagt WF 48), RA eS) Sa

. & Rercity. ede aerated [evreti> vit fe sxdho> Rh ek eam

ie ck Pi uae Poe w aah whi er coh Litt yas Ae adret rs GEE: ater ae

a ge ate h.287 gf sper ty Jomo (ey Dolan ins tala
ei: RSP ERT e i ee ver ae PSAs opie th $s Ale et eon Mea rite oe

Wigates oho ‘¥ ee.) SE bee
- ee iit heninate: ceeaoin red ee eg 4

¥ yee f saben bebe Guy sein Miohtes jae a
f a damaete ate rser 4 pratense: weet hed ‘genie EAL ae pag
ee ry die a ey uae Ain” eoton, ott To wep aingt it Med
NEY: Ts sient? cere oni iatrites) eS «pats Tee ae
aieiey te i Pe Uh a dae 9 to hei

ee ONE. sikh, 0 ate Ne Me es 2 4 E Sata
ee Bagh ao jes Leeire Cage saat ow %
ae Sos | be ety ae Peay By | otto
isi nee sl 8 © Stas. : Oey eae te Gate wt ea
oh eet ella) ok; Phen paket. tet soy nu aoweee eX
iy yt Wess Aig, ROTOR, GORE, Sey
ee * taste Ligh secbhe wttice, iol ot hy See

P i — LTS a 4
a apes <Te sich Sash va dint Sh) 7
Fen Pei Prat apaate ey tT) Ae ash
“adh eae! mxtondth Coen A cli a celta
ae * quran re tel uy WOL SRE od 0Rahei eer

RTI Chasen 28) POY ‘sp; See

babe eet y,
os bees “
RIPPLE MARKS.

By CH. Epry.

[With 10 plates. ]

Among the multitudinous impressions which the ebbing tide leaves
on the sands as it recedes the most curious are certainly those parallel
lines of ridges, of varying size or regularity, covering at times im-
mense areas of the beach. They are known in French as Paumelles,
which has no significance, and in English as ripple marks, which
name has prevailed, perhaps because it is foreign, or perhaps because
it is more expressive (fig. 1).?

Ripple marks are everywhere so common that it is impossible to
walk on any beach for a few minutes without encountering them and
admiring them, as they always present a very beautiful appearance,
especially when seen in large masses in the sunlight, although one
may suffer from them, perhaps, if one is barefooted, as they make
walking very difficult. However, although they are universally
known, no one seems until now to have definitely ascertained their
cause.

Some regard these undulations as due to the waves alone; others
consider that they are caused by the wind, by the transference of
the surface vibrations to the bottom, when these have only a little
depth of water to traverse in order to reach the latter. Learned
theories have also been formulated to explain them, none of which
give entire satisfaction.

The question still remained, therefore, “ What causes the formation
of these ripple marks?” Wishing to answer it, I have taken the
opportunity, during a number of years, to observe attentively these |
undulations wherever my tastes and fancy have taken me; that is
to say, from one end of our coast to the other, and the cause of the
phenomenon appears to me to-day so easy of comprehension that
I find it difficult to explain to myself why an agreement regarding
it was not reached long since. It is the very definite conclusion at

1 Translated by permission from the Annales de l’Institut Oceanographique (Fondation
Albert 1°™ Prince de Monaco), Paris, vol. 4, pt. 3, 1912.
* The figures are shown on plates 1 to 10.

307
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

which I have arrived that I present here. Although it is simply that
of an amateur who can only bring to his researches a measure of
curiosity and much patience, I believe that it will impress itself on
others with the same force that it has on me, if they will consent to
accompany me, stage by stage, along the road which has led me to
it. In order to simplify the explanation and clarify the text, I shall
present in connection with each argument the most convincing of a
number of photographs which I have taken on different beaches.

In the first place, then, where are these ripple marks formed?
Broadly speaking, ridges of this kind are produced beyond the
reach of the waves on the dry sands of the interior of dunes (fig. 2)
and likewise on the sandy slopes of Sahara, or the snow carpet of
Alpine heights. Due without question to eolian action, these do not
interest us, at least for the present, though we shall Lave occasion
to return to them later.

In the area in which the ebb and flow of the tides manifest them-
selves it is necessary to distinguish between an upper and a lower
beach. The first presents a particularly steep slope, and the water
only reaches it during the neap tides. But then the water possesses
a much greater. force, because it must, during the same number of
hours, traverse a longer course. For these two reasons the layers of
water which are spread out, however thin they may be, are carried
about with such velocity that no other force can counteract their ef-
fects. But their actionis vertical. The grains of sand are energetically
propelled from below upward and from above downward, but solely
in a vertical direction. Consequently, children’s modelings, foot-
prints, or ridges raised perhaps by the wind during the time when
the sand is drying, all inequalities indeed, whether depressions or
elevations, are erased or thrown down, as the smoothed-out slope
takes on the regular surface of a glacis (fig. 3). Figure 3 shows
the sea at work; figure 4 enables one to judge of the final result.

On the upper beach ripple marks are never found. They occur,
in contrast, in great abundance on the lower beach, as shown
in figure 1—in great abundance, but not always, nor everywhere.
Figure 5 is a view taken in the Bay of Goulven on the same day and
at the same hour as figure 1, and scarcely a hundred meters to the
right of the place where the latter was taken and toward nearly the
same point of the horizon. The two photographs placed side by
side constitute a panoramic view of the same landscape. The ridges,
which are so beautifully shown at the left, are irregular and scarcely
outlined at the right, presenting merely a wavy appearance.

Let us go elsewhere. Here is a beach in the region of Lorient,
that of Fort Bloqué, quite ideally flat, and apparently well suited for
the formation of ripple marks. (See fig. 6.) A fisher woman is
walking toward the rocks, which begin to appear above the water,
PLATE 1.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry.

Fic. 1.—ON THE BAY OF GOULVEN (FINISTERE).

Fic. 2.—IN THE DUNES OF PARIS-PLAGE.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 2.

Fig. 3.—THE EBB AT CAPE FERRET, ON THE BAY OF ARACHON.

Fic. 4.—THE SEA LEAVING THE UPPER BEACH AT ETABLES (COTES-DU-NORD).
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 3.

Fic. 5.—ON THE BAY OF GOULVEN, THE “‘ROC’H VRAN.””

Fic. 6.—APPEARANCE OF THE LOWER BEACH AT FORT-BLOQUE WHEN THE WATER
IS RECEDING.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 4.

Fia. 7.—RIPPLE MARKS BELOW LESCONIL.

Fia. 8.—STRIP OF BEACH BETWEEN POULDU AND DOUELAN.

‘
RIPPLE MARKS—EPRY. 309

to collect periwinkles. The water, consequently, is receding. One,
however, perceives no trace of its having covered the sands. Their
remarkably smooth, wet surface has the polish and the gleam of a
mirror.

In contrast, in many places, especially near the time of the very
low water of the spring tides—for example, on the bars that form
at the mouth and along the banks of certain rivers—ripple marks are
found, which, unlike those shown in figure 1, are not a few centi-
meters high, but 50 to 75 centimeters, or even a meter. Such ripple
marks are shown in figure 7, from a photograph taken at the mouth
of the Steir,t or lagoon of Lesconil.

.As the ripple marks, then, do not form on the upper part of the
beach, but are extremely common on the lower part (which corre-
sponds in sandy regions to the zone of fucus and laminarian sea-
weeds of rocky shores) does it not seem that it ought to suffice, in
order to discover their origin, to note the points in which the latter
differs from the former? This reasoning is correct, and it is pos-
sible to draw important conclusions from this comparison. From
this point of view, however, it is of importance to proceed in one’s
deductions with a prudent circumspection, without taking one’s eyes
from the facts; otherwise, one is in much danger in a moment of
inattention of arriving at an explanation of the phenomenon, which,
when pursued a little further, will very quickly surprise one by be-
coming in complete discord with all the new data acquired by
observation.

What, then, is the principal difference between the two parts of
the beach, from the particular point of view which we are taking?
The slope of the lower beach is much more gentle, so gentle at times
‘that the waves in certain regions recede for a distance of several kilo-
meters in attaining the level of low water. Consequently, the velocity
of the current of the tide is there very great. In the Bay of Mont-
St. Michel it is equal to that of a horse galloping. On the other hand.
throughout the duration of the flowing tide, the progressing stratum
of water which moves up the sands is very thin, so thin, indeed, that
the waves can not perpetuate themselves and die out at a considerable
distance from the shore. These beaches are, while they last, like
immense shallow lakes which gradually empty themselves. What is
one to conclude from such a state of things? Given the slight thick-
ness of the layer of water, it seems quite natural to believe that the
action of the wind should make itself felt at the bottom, forming
there ridges analogous to those which it raises on the surface of the
sea. One may equally be led to inquire whether it is not necessary

+The Steir is a little Breton river, which empties into the Odet at Quimper. But in
that region they designate thus most of the small creeks without name that toward the
ocean spread out into fjords, estuaries, or lagoons.
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913. —

to attribute the formation of ripple marks to the violence of the
current of the tide that sweeps this very flat area, or to the indirect
action of the wind, or in some measure to the combined action of the
two elements, the air and the water.

The second hypothesis has been very generally adopted. At first
sight, we repeat, it appears very convincing. In reality, it does not
bear serious examination, and should be resolutely rejected. What-
ever the state of the atmosphere, indeed, one will observe that on a
beach there are certain points where at all times, or at least with very
great regularity, ridges are formed. At other points on one day
they will disappear, though the wind may blow a gale, while on the
morrow they reappear, though the sky may be calm and the sea like
glass.

Not only is there no correlation between the movements of the
aerial ocean and the wrinkling of the sandy surfaces submerged
under a very thin stratum of water, but, on looking closely, one
observes that it is particularly in those places where the bottom is
especially protected from the influence of the wind that these marks
attain their largest dimensions; for example, where the ground is
accidentally sunken, in the depths of pools, or on the banks of small
streams, or at low-water mark; again, where the force of the current
of the tide, as well as that of the wind, whatever it may be, remains
comparatively negligible, and is actually without effect, for example,
on the sands of bars, which are exposed only a few minutes, and then
only at the equinox, at the mouth of rivers and streams.

One should not have a shadow of a doubt on this point. Ripple
marks are the work of the tide, and of that alone, as they are nowhere
so numerous and conspicuous as where the sands are best protected
from the effects of the wind.

This first point settled, it remains to harmonize this assertion with
what we have said of the effects of the tide on the higher part of
the beach, where far from producing a greater wrinkling of the
bottom, the increase of its speed, owing to the great inclination of
the beach, causes a general leveling.

In order to explain this apparent contradiction, and find the
solution of the enigma, which of the two factors is it necessary to
consider, the inequalities of the two slopes, or the difference between
the dynamic effects of a breaking wave and those of a regular cur-
rent? It is, in fact, neither the one nor the other. They are of no
importance. All research in this direction leads to nothing. Here
again is an impasse to be avoided. The solution of the problem is
to be sought elsewhere. In order to discover it without further
delay, we must transfer ourselves to a point on the shore where the
ripple marks always, or nearly always, form; that is, to the line of
e RIPPLE MARKS—EPRY. 311

junction of the upper and the lower beach. This line of demarkation,
sometimes scarcely visible, is remarkably clear in the accompanying
illustration (fig. 8).

Examine this photograph closely and what do we see? A higher
beach which is perfectly smooth, a lower beach, almost horizontal,
equally leveled off by the sea that has withdrawn from it. Between
the two, at the base of the upper slope, are two small pools quite
distinctly united, of which the bottom in course of becoming dry is
covered with ripple marks. Why are these ridges formed there and
not higher up or farther out?

Let us pursue our examination, concentrating our attention on the
nearer depression the details of which are the more distinct. In the
widest part of this pool the ridges are arranged parallel with the
shore, but at its extremities, situated in the nearest foreground, it is
seen that these lines of ridges are directed toward the sea, diminish-
ing in number, losing their regularity, and finally mingling together
and being drawn out into a little streamlet which gradually disap-
pears. If we could study the other pool as readily, we should dis-
cover an absolutely similar disposition of the ripple marks at the
bottom of it. It also terminates in a rill. The two together seen
from farther off and higher up from the top of the cliffs (fig. 9)
present with perfect symmetry the appearance of a pair of French
mustaches with long ends drawn down equally.

What has gone on here? It should not be imagined that hiero-
glyphics are more easy to decipher than these marks traced on the
sand. Wherever the strand was so fiat that the water could flow
normally from the cliffs and toward the sea, the sandy grains, what-
ever might be the manner in which they were propelled, strike briskly
against the waves, or the natural impulse of the tide. Whatever the
inclination of the area on which they roll (in other words, whether
on the lower beach as on the higher beach, as one can verify from the
foregoing photograph), they are deposited in a uniform layer. They
can not follow the same course in a double depression. Those which
at first, when the sea strikes the plain far from the foot of the cliffs,
had not the least importance end by acquiring one a little before the
receding tide completely abandons them. At this:moment the layers
of water which sweep the depression from side to side, rise swiftly
to a certain height on the slope of the upper beach, but in returning
all the water can not again avoid the constantly growing obstacle
which extends across its route on the progressively exposed plane
of the lower beach. At the surface a part of this water still passes,
but the greater portion, diverted by the knob of sand toward the
middle of the pool, accumulates there seeking its level of equilibrium,
and in order to find it flows out in a wavy course te the right and
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

left toward the two extremities, where, with the aid of the last waves,
it divides into a double stream creating, in consequence, two small
currents running in opposite directions parallel to the shore.

One learns from this the manner in which is formed, at this point,
the deposit of sand grains carried by these currents running at
right angles with the current of the tide, which brings them from
the upper beach. Meeting in the pool water that possesses little
force they lose their speed and are deposited. But, while they are
falling to the bottom, the transverse current intervenes, turns them
aside and arranges parallel with the shore this unstable, changeable
‘mass, which is in course of formation rather than formed, and con-
sists of these sandy particles, for the most part still suspended in
the water.

Thus appear the parallel lines of ripple marks which reveal by
their direction that of the secondary currents, and by their undula-
tions the serpentine windings which are impressed on them by the
vertical oscillations of the waves. Though very distinct where the
divergence of the two lines of currents from an angle of 90°,
the ripple marks lose little by little their regularity at a distance,
and in the same measure as the forces in operation become weakened.
They end by disappearing altogether in the drain where the trans-
verse current, definitely deflected toward the sea, loses itself in the
current of the tide.

Thus is this phenomenon very simply explained. In every part
of the lower beach where a current runs more or less nearly at right
angles with the normal current of the ebb, their combined effects
inscribe themselves in ripple marks on the sand.

We arrived at this conclusion on noting the appearance which
the ripple marks present when they have acquired their definite
form. More convincing than any argument is the reproduction here
given of a photograph showing these currents, surprised while at
work and depicted in the immobility of a hundredth of a second at
the moment when, under their double action, little lines of shadow
stamp upon the smooth surface of the sands the first outline of
ripple marks. I sought for a long time to obtain this illustration,
and though a difficult task, it was finally secured.

Let us suppose that at the moment of breaking on the shore, a
wave happens to strike a rock presenting a surface at an angle of
about 45°. The wave, carried along by its own energy, washes
this surface, and then falling down and turned aside by it, retreats
to join the sea, in an elliptical course (fig. 10).

The sandy particles which it carries, as in the pool previously
mentioned, are urged forward in two directions, “OA” and “ OB,”
the, one perpendicular to and the other parallel with the shore.
Ripple marks should be formed there. This is confirmed by the
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 5.

Fic. 9.—THE PRECEDING STRIP OF BEACH SEEN FROM A GREATER DISTANCE.

Fic. 10.—CuRVE OF WAVE AFTER STRIKING ROCK.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 6.

Fic. 11.—FiRST ROUGH OUTLINE OF RIPPLE MARKS.

A ee
te ©
* =. ?»

a owt
TF st

Fic. 12.—ON THE BAY OF SOMME.
RIPPLE MARKS—EPRY. S13

accompanying instantaneous photograph (fig. 11). A wave has
broken under precisely these conditions. One can discern still the
contour of the fringe of foam that it spreads out on the beach.
Being violently thrown from left to right, it has already abandoned
the left portion. The obliquity of its course is revealed, in part,
at least, by the direction of the line of shadow, which, at the right,
marks the elevation which it forms on mingling with the succeeding
wave, which latter at this point has not itself undergone any devia-
tion. Where the receding wave has passed are displayed the #ea-
tures of ripple marks.

In general, as we have established in the bottom of our little
pool at Pouldu, ripple marks arrange themselves parallel with the
line of the shore, under the predominating influence of the trans-
verse current, which draws the sands toward the outlet. On the
contrary, the direction of the ephemeral marks outlined here (fig. 11)
approach much more closely to a perpendicular than to a parallel
with this line. The reason of this difference is very simple. It
les in the fact that this instantaneous photograph was taken on
the upper beach. There only the action of the normal reflex cur-
rent which levels the sand ordinarily exerts itself. It is owing to
a quite special circumstance that accidentally the effects of the de-
scending current were altered for a few seconds to a slight degree.
The direction of the ridges formed express the relation between the
two forces which acted together at this place.

But let us not make a point of this photographie document which
was obtained with difficulty, and may doubtless appear insufficiently
clear and convincing, moreover, as the jurists say, “ Testis wnus testis
nullus,” and as we have not been able to obtain any other evidence of
this kind, we shall content ourselves with arguments derived from
ripple marks which, like those of Pouldu, have acquired their definite
form. In whatever place one observes them there are such numerous
and harmonious evidences in favor of our theory that they appear to
us irrefutable,

We now present an illustration of three conditions of the sand in
the Bay of Somme (fig. 12). The waters first descended vertically
down the slope of the upper beach directly toward the spectator, then
at a certain moment they ran obliquely to reach the rivulet at the
right, between the piles of the wharf, that should direct them toward
the sea. The first slope, where ordinarily the action of the receding
water alone exerts itself, is leveled. The less-inclined slope of the
intermediate area, on the contrary, is covered with ridges due to a
double action, the preponderating one of the transverse current and
the diminished action of the normal current.

Again, in figure 13, we have, seen from above, that marvelous whirl-
pool of Trieux, dominated by the chateau of Roche-Jagu and its
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

park. Owing to an effect of shadow one can distinguish in this view
all the details of the relief of the ground. They are significant. At
the same time that the descending tide washes the elongated sand
bank at the middle of the river from above downward water runs lat-
erally to join it from the channel at the right and from a rivulet fur-
rowed in the mud at the margin of the shore at the left. Ripple
marks are formed at this place.

Let us now return to the great beach of Goulven, represented at
thefBeginning of this article (fig. 1). If one introduces this view be-
tween the following (fig. 14) and that which we have given in figure
5, the accompanying panoramic view (fig. 15) will be obtained. We
see at the right the shore and the most distant point of the bay dom-
inated by a picturesque rocky mass called “'The Cathedral”; at the
left, stretched across the bay, a series of high granite ledges which
extend above the water. The waters have receded and leveled the
slope of the sands accumulated around these knobs. But directed in
consequence toward the middle of the bay they have been obliged, in
order to get out, to seek two lateral outlets. They have taken the
direction of “F'” and “ F’.” Do we not have here again, on an im-
mense scale, our pool of Pouldu, with its two lateral outlets and its
ridges parallel with one another and with the shore?

The similarity of the two illustrations will be better comprehended
by turning again to figure 1 and examining very closely (with a mag-
nifying glass, one might say) the smallest details of the landscape.
The lines of ripple marks are drawn out over a long distance, but in
reality they show at a number of points a lack of continuity. They
appear to be composed of bars which follow one another irregularly,
or do not stand in line at all. To summarize, this immense field of
undulations may be divided into an infinity of pools similar to that
of Pouldu and of banks much less important even than that of Trieux.
They form a mosaic. This admirable design is effected by means of
fragments and pieces, pools and banks of sand in juxtaposition, and
separated by a series of parallel rivulets, some still full of water and
others already completely dry, just as shown in the first illustration,
where one may see at the right ridges becoming progressively de-
formed and losing themselves at the place where the two generating
currents have taken a common direction.

The same spectacle presents itself within the bay as at its mouth.
Everywhere, from whatever point we take up the question, we always
arrive at the same conclusion. All these marks (with certain excep-
tions due to the movements of the ground, which, if we stop to study
them, witness in favor of our theory) in their entirety are directed
parallel to the shore toward a rapid creek formed on the right side
of the bay by the retreat of the water which the sea every day carries

a
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 7.

ae

Fic. 13.—AN ELBOW OF THE TRIEUX.

Fia. 14.—ACROSS THE BAY OF GOULVEN.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 8.

Fig. 15.—THE BAY OF GOULVEN.

Plounéour-Irez. z

Fia@. 16.—THE BAY OF GOULVEN.
RIPPLE MARKS—EPRY. 315

to a marsh (fig. 16) that occupies, between Plounéour-Trez and
Goulven, the head of the bay. If our theory be correct, one ought
from the existence and direction of these ridges to conclude that the
waters of the bay do not retire in a direction perpendicular to the
beach, but are diverted more or less obliquely to it and toward this
outlet. This is what I have always noted. One day especially, when
hidden in the thicket on a sandy bar of the swamp in pursuit of
herons, I killed one of these birds. The tide was high and conse-
quently close at hand, and the bird fell into the water. As I had
just eaten, it was impossible to swim out in order to recover it, and
T was obliged to abandon it. The tide being high, it floated past me
in a tantalizing manner. It was my first heron! When the tide
had receded a little, however, the bird floated away quickly and
obliquely toward the right in the direction of the creek, the outlet of
all the waters of the bay. When it had arrived there it passed quickly
outward and in a few minutes was lost to sight. At the same time
the existence of a transverse current combining its effects with those
of the ebb was revealed to me, the formation of ripple marks was
demonstrated, and their direction explained by the course which the
bird had followed. I had lost the specimen, but not my time.

One can understand also that ripple marks are always found cn
the bar of a river, like that of the Belon, for example, which is bare
during the spring tides. The mass of water which flows down from
the ravine, striking against an obstacle in its path, is forced to turn
laterally to seek toward the shore an easier passage ; on the left, the side
of the small bay of Kerfany, the real channel of the Belon; at the
right, a small depression resulting from the washing out of the sands
by the eddy in front of the rocks of the point of Riec.

We may now return to the furrows in the dry sand of the dunes,
or in the snow on the mountains. It will be observed that whatever
the agency, air or water, the process is always the same. The ripple
marks are never formed on the surfaces exposed to the full current.
but always in the gullies, or on the side of slopes over which the cur-
rent of air descends obliquely. Their direction indicates the course
of the current (fig. 17).

On the contrary, where no transverse current intervenes ripple
marks are lacking in the places in which one might have expected to
find them. Our angle of the beach at Fort Bloqué (fig. 6) is without
them, because the peninsula which serves as an embankment to the
fort prevents the access of all currents parallel with the shore, that
of Coureau passing between the Lorient section of the mainland on
the east, and the island of Groix. The ebb is produced there nor-
mally. The ripple marks appear solely at a point lower down and
farther from the shore, outside the protected zone. Can it be said
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

that they never form in the angle? Not at all. I have seen them
sometimes, but when a strong wind from the west forces the water to
the right, parallel with the shore into the depressions of the embank-
ment.

I could multiply the examples indefinitely, accumulating the evi-
dences, but this article would then be nothing more than an album of
photographs. I shall not dwell on the evidence further, considering
sufficiently demonstrated a fact that anyone, if I have failed to
remove his doubt, can easily confirm on any beach. In concluding,
I desire to return to two secondary points, but not unimportant ones,
which, after mentioning incidentally, I put aside temporarily in order
to first settle the principal questions. The secondary questions relate
not to the mode of formation of ripple marks but to their location
and the differences that are observed in their dimensions in the vari-
ous places in which they appear.

Ripple marks, as I have observed, form only on the lower beach,
and there again not in all places nor at all times. I will explain
why none are seen in the photograph taken on the beach at Fort
Bloqué. To account for their absence in this part of the bay of
Goulven, shown in figure 5, which includes all portions of the ripple-
mark field, it is necessary to take notice of a factor that has not as
yet been mentioned. This is the nature of the bottom. Here we
encounter a layer of mud and not of sand. It is not necessary to
seek for any other reason why the ripple marks are absent. They
do not form on muddy bottoms. Such bottoms, which are very
compact because composed of very fine particles, oppose to the attack
of the tide a resistance all the more effective as their surface is
viscous and gummy. The sea strikes them without finding more to
take hold upon than the wind finds on a surface of water protected
by a film of oil. A current may, however, if it be very violent,
leave some trace of its passage, but indistinct and of little im-
portance. In place of ripple marks one observes that kind of choppy
appearance, like the coagulations in a semiclear soup, which one sees
in figure 5. It is of interest to compare the effects produced by the
same current under exactly the same conditions in two places near
Lesconil, distant scarcely 100 meters from one another, in the one
case on mud (fig. 18) and in the second on sand (fig. 7).

Between the mainland and the island of Oléron the rapid cur-
rent of Maumusson produces on the coarse sands from the point of
Menson to the St. Trojan landing, ripple marks of enormous size
in the furrows of which on the days of the spring tide one spears
sole, turbot, plaice, torpedoes, and gurnards. But beyond this land-
ing there extends an immense field of mud divided into separate
masses in front of St. Trojan, unfrequented and inaccessible from
PLATE 9.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry.

Fic. 17.—SAND DUNES IN THE DESERT OF SOUTH TUNIS.

)

(Photographed by Lehnert and Landrock, Tunis.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Epry. PLATE 10.

¥

—_—
ot re ey Liven
an eT an

Fic. 18.—Mup BoTTOM IN THE STIER OF LESCONIL (FINISTERE).

Fic. 19.—DESERT OF Mup AT Low TIDE BETWEEN THE MAINLAND AND THE ISLAND
OF OLERON.
RIPPLE MARKS—EPRY. 317

the harbor of this locality and stretching all along the island as far
as Ors, Le Chateau, and beyond. The layer of mud, constantly
accumulating by the accession of fragments of shell derived from
the oyster beds, attains a thickness of from 60 centimeters to 1
meter and more. In figure 19 is shown lying exposed to the sun at
low tide the surface of this desert of mud and the marks which indi-
cate the currents flowing from the Straits of Maumusson and
Antioche. It is impossible to recognize a trace of ripple marks there,
although the place is scarcely 200 meters from the point of Menson
and its ripple marks, and is affected by the same current.

Ripple marks, then, do not occur in pure mud. They are only
formed on the sand, of whatever purity it may be. Although very
muddy, as especially in the same locality, on the beaches of An-
goulins, the sands cover it very easily. The bank with ripple marks,
which we have already noticed in Bretagne in the river Trieux, was
of a muddy sand, as is evidenced: by the bright reflection of the sun-
light on its surface.

It may be asserted that these undulations are nowhere so fine and
sharp as where the currents find in suspension in the water which
they propel enough clay to cement the always crumbling sandy ma-
terials of these ephemeral structures. If the sand is very pure, the
grains roll too easily on one another and are prevented from coming
to rest on the sides of the furrow. Such ridges consequently have a
wider base and proportionately less height than ripple marks of a
smaller size formed on bottoms that are slightly muddy. If the sand
is not only pure, but of very large grains, such as is encountered, for
example, at Penmark, at Guilvinnec, and at Langoz, or again south
of Concarneau from the point of Jument to that of Trévignon, then
the ripple marks are formed with great difficulty. They occur here
only under the influence of very strong currents and attain in this
case very remarkable dimensions.

From this circumstance I am led to formulate the last of the
observations that I shall present, to wit, their dimensions are always
in direct relation to the force of the currents that form them. If in
the bay of Goulven, after having taken the view No. 1, with the
coast of Plouescat for the horizon line, I had made a half turn and
had advanced 200 or 300 paces in a new direction toward Brignogan,
I should have photographed ripple marks twice the size of those
shown in figure 1. It is in this place that the creek that serves as
the outlet of the marsh and bay passes through, much increased in
breadth and lacking depth, though still rapid. During the whole
time of the ebb, the entire strength of the current bears on this point,
and the ridges on the coarse sands transported there reach an excep-
tional size.
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

In the same manner may be explained the dimensions of the ripple
marks on the bar of the Belon. By itself the Belon does not exist as
a river. Close to its mouth toward Riec and Moélan, in the vicinity
of Guilly, it is—

A small brook, scarcely appearing to flow.
A thirsty giant drinks it up at a breath.

But between the two resisting ledges of granite the ocean has fur-
rowed in its direction landward a passage or fjord, at the outlet of
which, between the points of Riec and Kerfany, this brook in the
open sea takes on at the hour of the ebb the proportions and the force
of an impetuous river. Its sound is considerable, and the depth of
the channels furrowed in the sands of the bar measures its power,
just as the size of the ripple marks formed opposite the point of
Menson reveal the currents that flow around the island of Oléron.

To summarize, I shall formulate the following conclusions:

1. Ripple marks are due entirely to the action of water.

2. They are never formed on the upper beach nor on entirely
muddy bottoms.

3. They appear on all parts of the lower beach, where, on the
sandy bottom, a transverse current cuts across the normal current of
the ebb.

4, They are aligned in the direction of the transverse current.
Their direction, if they deviate, expresses the relation of the two
forces which are in action.

5. Their dimensions are a function of the nature of the bottom, the
size of the grains of sand, and the velocity of the water.
NOTES ON THE GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF THE WAL-
NUTS AND HICKORIES.1

By Epwarp W. BERBY,

The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.

The walnut family (Juglandaceae), which in the popular mind
is fully rounded out by the enumeration of the walnut, butternut,
hickory, and pignut, while relatively small, is by no means as limited
as this might indicate. According to current imterpretations there
are 6 genera and about 40 species widely scattered throughout the
warmer parts of the North Temperate Zone and penetrating some
distance south of the Equator along the Andes in South America, and
in the East Indies.

The Juglandaceae are of considerable interest for a variety of
reasons, chief among which, aside from their great economic impor-
tance, are their long line of ancestors reaching back some millions
of years to the mid-Cretaceous, and the former wide range and
abundance of these ancestors, which also serves to explain the curious
geographical distribution of the still existing species. They are
also interesting because of the much discussed question as to whether
their morphological characters shall be interpreted as primitive or as
mere simplifications of a more highly organized stock.

Not all of the genera have adopted the same methods of seed
dispersal and certain genera have kept the seed part of their fruits
comparatively small and light, thus enabling them to produce large
numbers of seeds with the same expenditure of energy required for
a single walnut. Furthermore, instead of depending altogether upon
chance for the dissemination of their latent progeny, the bracts which
are normally present have developed enormously and serve as wings.
This is especially true in the genera H’ngelhardtia and Oreomunnea
and will be referred to on a subsequent page.

The fruits unmistakably indicate the genera—those of the hickory
have smooth shells and a husk which splits more or less, the walnuts
and butternuts have a very rugose surface and an entire husk, while
Engelhardtia, Oreomu’rmea, and Pterocarya have small compound
winged fruits. The leaves are always compound, indicating a trop-

1 Reprinted by permission from The Plant World, vol. 15, No. 10, October, 1912.
319
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

ical ancestry, as was first enunciated by Grisebach. They may be
distinguished from those of the ash by being alternately arranged
instead of opposite. There are numerous other details which enable
the student to distinguish between the leaves of the different genera
and species. It will be convenient to take up each genus separately
and describe something of its present range and such portion of its
geologic history as is known.

THE GENUS HICORIA.

The hickories are now referred to the genus Hicoria, proposed
by Rafinesque in 1808, although many systematists, especially in the
Old World, still use the name Carya proposed by Nuttall in 1818 and
universally used until about 20 years ago.

The hickories occupy a unique economic position, for while the
consumption of this wood is less in quantity than that of some of the
other hardwoods such as white oak or yellow poplar, or of various
coniferous trees like the cypress or the pines, it shares with the
black walnut the distinction of being the most costly American wood.
Hickory, while not remarkable for beauty of color or of grain, will
probably be the most difficult wood to replace when the approaching
shortage becomes more acute, since it combines weight, hardness,
stiffness, strength, and toughness to a degree unequaled among com-
mercial woods. The Forest Service estimates that the consumption
of hickory for lumber, spokes, tool handles, rims, shafts, sucker rods,
etc., amounted to 450,000,000 board feet during 1908, exclusive of
the large amount used as fuel, estimated at about 1,000,000 cords—
for hickory is also the best American fuel wood.

The genus Hicoria is entirely confined to North America in the
existing flora, more particularly to the eastern United States,
although there is an indigenous species in Mexico (Hicoria mewi-
cana), and three or four other species reach their northern limit of
growth beyond the Great Lakes in eastern Canada.

The existing species number from 8 to 15, according to the rank
assigned to the varieties of the 8 or 9 easily distinguished and main
types. They fall naturally into two groups—the true hickories and
the pecan hickories—groups which were already clearly defined in
preglacial Pliocene times.

The true hickories are fine, slow growing trees of in general tem-
perate dry soils with hard strong wood. The buds are full, with
overlapping scales, and the nuts are generally thick shelled and
thick husked, while the leaflets are from three to nine in number.
The pecan hickories are trees which require warmth and moisture,
and possess relatively weak wood. The buds are thin and narrow
without overlapping scales and the nuts have thin shells and thin
husks while the leaflets are numerous, slender, and falcate.
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. 321

Over a score of fossil species have been described. Unlike the
walnut the hickory is not known with certainty from the Cre-
taceous, but it is present in very early Eocene deposits in Wyoming
and on the Pacific coast. Hickories occur in the upper Eocene of

which the genus is known to have spread during its past history (vertical lining).

ic. 1.—Sketch map showing the area of distribution of the existing species of Hicoria (solid black) and the area over

Central Europe and there is a fine large leafed species from deposits

of this age at Kukak Bay, Alaska. The Oligocene occurrences

are largely referred to Hicoria ventricosa which is abundantly

represented by leaves and fruit in the Oligocene browncoal deposits
44863°—sM 19138 21

322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of Europe. The late Miocene appears to have been the period of
widest extent of the hickories. From deposits of this age about
a dozen species are known. Trees were scattered all over Europe
and the genus extended to Iceland, Greenland, and Spitzbergen.
In North America there were species in Oregon and California, in
Colorado and in Vermont. <A species very close to the existing pecan
occurs in the late Miocene of New Jersey.

During the succeeding Pliocene period the hickories are as abund-
ant and vigorous as in the late Miocene in Europe although their
northern limit appears to have become somewhat restricted. Even
as late as the Upper Pliocene several species of hickory are abundant
in Italy and Germany, but none survived the ice age on that con-
tinent.

A species resembling the pecan is represented by both leaves and
nuts in a late Phocene lagoon deposit in southern Alabama. In
America there are numerous Pleistocene records, the leaves being
preserved in the clay deposits of the river terraces and the fruits
in the buried swamp deposits. The following still existing species
are recorded from the Pleistocene of this country; Hicoria pecan
from the old Mississippi bluffs at Columbus, Ky.; Zicoria alba from
a cave in Pennsylvania, and from the interglacial beds near Toronto,
Canada; Hicoria aquatica from North Carolina; Wicoria ovata from
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and North Carolina; Hicoria villosa from
Alabama; and Hicoria glabra from Pennsylvania, Maryland, Vir-
ginia, and North Carolina.

The accompanying map (fig. 1) shows the area occupied by the
existing species in solid black and the known Tertiary range by ver-
tical lining. It seems probable that the genus spread eastward over
Asia, but the latter continent has been so little explored that no
records are known.

While the Ice Age exterminated the hickories from Eurasia, the
genus survived safely in North America and is in no danger of
extermination except by the ax of the woodman. Their great toler-
ance of shade and their ability to respond to the stimulus of increased
light, combined with their longevity, are important factors in their
continued existence. While the rodents consume many of the fruits,
they have probably done so during the whole history of the genus,
for nuts gnawed by squirrels are not infrequent in Pleistocene depos-
its. This is not an unmixed evil, for various rodents not only dis-
tribute the species but bury the nuts in forgotten places, where they
are almost sure to grow. Before the advent of the “ civilized ax”
many venerable old giant hickories were scattered through our Amer-
ican forests and there are numerous records of immense trunks show-
ing 350 or more annual rings.
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. ove
THE GENUS JUGLANS.

The name Juglans is a contraction of Jovis glans, or nut of Jupi-
ter, and the specific name of the species known to the ancient Greeks
and Romans is regia, or royal, and is fittingly applied to the mag-
nificent tree which has been so commonly planted throughout the
Old World for so many centuries. Nuts are found under the Swiss
lake dwellings of the Neolithic period. Our two eastern American
species are equally royal trees. The black walnut, Juglans nigra
Linné, ranges from Massachusetts to southern Ontario, Minnesota,
and eastern Kansas, and southward to Florida and Texas. Its rich
edible fruits are unsurpassed among nuts and the handsome dark
wood has made it a favorite wherever furniture is manufactured,
and in consequence the tree is becoming scarce. It makes a fine
growth when planted abroad, and undoubtedly was a native of
Europe in preglacial time, as is shown by nuts preserved in the Plio-
cene deposits of that country, which are indistinguishable from the
existing species. The butternut or white walnut, Juglans cinerea
Linné, yields a wood that is much inferior to the black walnut, but
its fruit is equally attractive. It ranges somewhat farther to the
northward and not so far to the southward as the black walnut, being
found from New Brunswick and Ontario to North Dakota and south-
ward to Delaware. In the Alleghanian region it extends southward
to Georgia and northeastern Mississippi and it is also found in
Arkansas. It is distinctly not a coastal-plain species. Like the black
walnut, it is very closely allied to certain preglacial European forms.
There are several other American species with a more limited range.
They are all trees, and include a Jamaican form and one or two
species found in the Andes of Bolivia. A species of northern Mex-
ico, Juglans rupestris Engelmann, extends into Arizona, New Mexico,
and the Rio Grande part of Texas, and there is a single species, Jug-
lans californica Watson, along the Pacific coast in California. The
range of the latter is limited and its seedlings are scarce, the nuts
being largely consumed by rodents. There is also a species of walnut
on the opposite shore of the Pacific in Manchuria.

The genus Juglans is apparently one of the earliest of the still-
existing dicotyledonous genera to appear in the fossil record, leaves
suggesting it having been found in the middle Cretaceous. It is well
represented in fossil flora from the base of the Upper Cretaceous to
the present, the former horizon furnishing at least seven species, one
of which, Juglans arctica Heer, ranges from Greenland to Alabama
along the Atlantic coast and furnishes a striking illustration of the
difference between Cretaceous and present-day climates.

There are about 25 Eocene species of walnut well distributed over
the Northern Hemisphere. They extend from the Mexican Gulf
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

region to Alaska and Greenland in North America and from Saghalin
Island, off the east coast of Asia, to western Europe in the Old
World.

The Oligocene walnuts are not quite so plentiful as are those of the
Eocene and are almost entirely confined to the Old World. This is
undoubtedly an expression of the incompleteness of the geological
record in North America, since there are practically no known Oligo-
cene plant beds in this country.

The Miocene has furnished upwards of two score species, the
majority of which are Old World forms, distributed from Japan to
western Europe. This again is due more to lack of records in
America than to the absence of the genus. In this country nuts are
preserved in the curiously isolated lignite deposit near Brandon, Vt.
There are species in Idaho, several in California and Oregon, and
four in Colorado in the late Miocene at Florissant. Both fruit and
leaves are frequently found associated in the various Tertiary de-
posits and nuts also occur with the leaves in some of the Cretaceous
deposits.

The Pliocene species are also numerous, a number of them surviv-
ing from Miocene times. In all, about 25 forms have been recorded
from the Pliocene deposits, and several of these are very close, if not
identical, with still-existing species. From the Upper Plocene of
Germany nuts have been collected in the lignite deposits which are
exactly like those of the existing American species Juglans nigra and
Juglans cinerea.

Walnuts are not common in Pleistocene deposits but the fruit of
Juglans regia Linné is recorded from the Pleistocene of southern
France, and our own black walnut, Juglans nigra Linné, has been
found in the late Pleistocene of Maryland and in the Pleistocene
river terraces of Alabama. Both of these occurrences are based upon
the characteristic nuts preserved in the impure peat of buried swamp
deposits.

The walnut of Europe, /uglans regia Linné, while extensively
planted in southern Europe as well as throughout the Orient, is only
endemic in Greece* and eastward through Asia Minor, Transcau-
casia, the northwestern Himalayan region, and in northern Burma.’

In recent geological times its range has probably become greatly
restricted, since the oldest known occurrence of forms identical with
the modern tree are in the latest Miocene deposits of central France.
A considerable number of occurrences have been recorded from the
Pliocene deposits of this region, and the central plateau of France
was evidently clothed with a considerable stand of walnut in pre-
glacial times. During the Pleistocene this species is known from a

1 Mentioned from Greece in Theophrastus and occurrence confirmed in recent years by
Heldreich and others. ~
2 Possibly also in the mountains of northern China and Japan,
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. 325

number of localities in northern Italy, in Hanover, and in southern
France (Provence), while the nuts found associated with the Swiss
lake dwellings were undoubtedly obtained from wild trees of the
immediate neighborhood.

species of Juglans (solid black) and the area over

ts past history (vertical lining).

which the genus is known to have spread during i

Wie. 2.—Sketch map showing the area of distribution of the existing

The manner in which the fossils enable us to obtain a vista into
the life of bygone days is furnished by recent discoveries in the
Egyptian desert. At a time (latest Eocene or earliest Oligocene)
when Libya was separated from Europe and Asia by a vast Mediter-
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ranean sea the Fayum was a delta with a heavy rainfall (as shown
by the flora), clothed with forests of an Indomalayan type and in-
habited by ancestral elephants and other curious forms of ancient
animal life. No less than eight kinds of figs, as well as laurels and
camphor trees, have been described from this now arid and desiccated
region. Among these fossil plants are the remains of a species of
walnut, a striking commentary on the changes which have since
taken place.

I have attempted to give a graphic summary of the present and
past range of the walnuts on the accompanying sketch map (fig. 2),
where the areas of distribution of the existing species (somewhat
exaggerated) are shown in solid black. It is possible that the part
of the range of Juglans regia in southern Asia should be extended
eastward over Tibet, through northern China to Japan. All of the
known fossil occurrences of walnuts have been plotted and are in-
closed within the vertically lined area. Probably the boundary of
the southward extension of the genus should be extended, at least
sufficiently far to include the South American existing species. It
is readily apparent from this map that the modern segregated species
are isolated remnants of a once world-wide distribution and that the
glacial epoch was an unimportant incident in their history on the
North American continent, while in Europe it greatly restricted the
range of Juglans regia and altogether exterminated one or two addi-
tional species of the walnut.

THE GENUS ENGELHARDTIA.

The genus Lngelhardtia was described by Leschen in 1825 and con-
tains about 10 species of the southeastern Asiatic area. These range
from the northwestern Himalayan region, where they extend a short
distance north of the Tropic of Cancer through farther India and
Burma to Java and the Philippines. The pistillate flowers are small
and are grouped in paniculate spikes. They develop into small
drupe-like fruits, each of which is connate at the base to a large
expanded trialate involucre.

A single little-known species, rarely represented in even the larger
herbaria, occurs in Central America and is the type and only species
of the genus Oreomunnea of Oersted. This is much more restricted
in its range than are its kin beyond the Pacific. Ovreomunnea is
very close to Xngelhardtia, and for the purposes of the paleobotanist
the two may be considered as identical, since they represent the but
slightly modified descendants of a common ancestry which was of
cosmopolitan distribution during the early Tertiary. The present
isolation of Oreomunnea furnishes a striking illustration of the
enormous changes which have taken place in the flora of the world
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. 327

in the relatively short time, geologically speaking, that has elapsed
since the dawn of the Tertiary.

The principle has frequently been enunciated that when closely
related forms are found in the existing flora of the world, restricted
in range and isolated from their nearest relatives, or when other
existing genera are monotypic, it is quite safe to predict an inter-
esting and extending geological history. H'ngelhardtia proves to be
another illustration of this principle, for its peculiar three-winged
fruits have been known in the fossil state for almost a century.
They were long unrecognized, however, and the earlier students who
described them compared them with the somewhat similar winged
fruits of the genus Carpinus (Betulaceae). With the botanical ex-
ploration of distant lands in the early part of the nineteenth cen-

NCANG

x aA z Clas Oey”
PSE CU

9 ; iw DO
. T}4 KE Try]

ta
‘

s
:
b) ‘
“

Fic. 3.—Engelhardtia (Oreomunnea) mississippiensis Berry, from the lower
Eocene of Mississippi (natural size).

tury, specimens of Lngelhardtia began to be represented in the larger
European herbaria, and Baron Ettingshausen, that most sagacious
of paleobotanists, as long ago as 1851 pointed out that certain sup-
posed species of Carpinus were really fruits of Hngelhardtia. He
returned to the subject in 1858 without, however, actually changing
the names of any of the supposed species of Carpinus, nor does he
seem to have been aware of the existence of a living species of L’ngel-
hardtia (Oreomunnea) in Central America.

Since Ettingshausen’s announcement a dozen or more fossil species
have been described. The oldest known European form occurs in
the upper Eocene or lower Oligocene (Ligurien) of France, and the
species become increasingly abundant throughout southern Europe
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

especially toward the close of the Oligocene and the dawn of the
Miocene, Saporta stating that the slabs from the leaf beds at Armis-
san in southeastern France are thickly strewn with their peculiar
fruits. Fossil forms continue in Europe throughout the Miocene

h Platy cOcua
Faerodarun
rgelhardtia

co uJ

and Pterocarya (solid biack) and the area over which they are known to have spread during their past history,

Fig. 4:—Sketch map showing the area of distribution of the existing species of Hngelhardtia, Oreomunnea, Platycarya,
Pterocarya indicated by vertical lining and Hngelhardtia (including Oreomunnea) by horizontal lining.

and Pliocene, and specimens of late Miocene or early Pliocene age
are recorded from Spain, France, Italy, Croatia, and Hungary.

The only described species from America occurs somewhat earlier
than any of the European forms, being found in the lower Eocene
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. 329

(Wilcox group) of northern Mississippi. The type figure of this
form is reproduced in figure 3. This is not the only known species
from America, however, as fossil leaves of this or other species occur
at the same horizon, and an additional species with smaller fruits
has recently been discovered by the writer in the middle Eocene
(Claiborne group) of southern Arkansas.

The accompanying sketch map (fig. 4) shows the existing area of
distribution of the genus “ngelhardtia in the Orient and Oreomun-
nea in the Occident in solid black. These areas are somewhat gener-
alized and exaggerated in order to be visible on so small a scale map.

The areas where Tertiary species of /ngelhardtia have been found
are covered by horizontal lining, and while not as extensive as might
be desired, indicate very clearly what was stated a few paragraphs
back, that forms closely allied to the modern Hngelhardtia were
widespread during the Tertiary period when the more extensive
warm climate enabled them to penetrate more than half way across
the North Temperate Zone. It seems probable that they also pushed
southward into the South Temperate Zone, but we can not verify nor
disprove this theory since practically no fossil plants of Tertiary age
have been discovered in South America, Africa, or Australia.
Another probability is that careful exploration will disclose the living
representatives of this widespread Tertiary stock in western Brazil,
especially as they have survived in Central America north of the
Equator.

In a general way “H’ngelhardtia fruits are not unlike those of
Carpinus. There seems to be little occasion for confusion, however,
even in poorly preserved fossil material. The fruit proper is de-
cidedly different, although this is seldom well enough preserved in
fossils to be decisive. The involucre is also markedly different in the
two genera. Carpinus involucres are usually smaller, with the me-
dian wing much wider and longer than the lateral wings and with
somewhat different venation.

The margins are also toothed, while in Engelhardtia they are
always entire. I have examined fruits of all the existing species of
Carpinus and experience no difficulty in readily distinguishing them
from those of H'ngelhardtia, the American species of the former being
especially different in appearance from those of Engelhardtia. I
have seen involucres of the Old World Carpinus betulus from trees
cultivated in this country in which the wings had entire or nearly
entire margins, but the aspect of the specimens as a whole, because
of their different proportions and venation, was markedly unlike
Engelhardtia, and if they had been found as fossils no competent
paleobotanist would have been at a loss regarding their botanical
affinity for a single instant.
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
THE GENUS PTEROCARYA.

The genus Pterocarya was described by Kunth in 1824. It is made
up of three or four species with very circumscribed ranges. The
type Pterocarya caucasica A. Meyer (P. fraxinifolia Spach.) at
present is confined to a limited area in trans-Caucasus, while another
species occurs in northern China and one or two in Japan, as shown
in a greatly exaggerated way in the solid black areas on figure 4.

The determination of the fossil species from their leaves is beset
with difficulties, but the fruits are perfectly characteristic and have
been found in a number of instances.

The oldest known fossil species is recorded from the Tertiary of
Colorado, and while the American material that can be referred to
this genus is not abundant at any period the genus undoubtedly
occurred on this continent during the later Tertiary. One record is
from deposits as late as the early Pleistocene, but this is not based
upon positively identified material.

In Europe the records of Pterocarya commence with the Oli-
gocene. The Tertiary species are numerous and widespread, the
abundant Pterocarya denticulata Heer being found from Bohemia
and Transylvania through Germany, Switzerland, and England
northward to western Greenland. This widespread species which
continues unabated throughout the Pliocene period is thought to be
the direct ancestor of the existing Pterocarya caucasica. There are
at least five additional Miocene species.

The Pliocene species are numerous and abundant, and are found
all over southern Europe, being especially common along the elevated
shores of the extended Mediterranean Sea, in the plateau region of
central France, and in the Apennines of Italy. The still existing
Pterocarya caucasica makes its appearance in the plateau region of
central France at this time where it is represented by both leaves and
the characteristic fruits. It still grew in Netherlands in the early
Pleistocene, according to Dubois, but was apparently exterminated
during the glacial period. It is also known from the Altai Mountains
of Central Asia in deposits of this age. In figure 4 the known range
of the fossil species is shown by vertical lining. It seems obvious
from the distribution of the ancestral forms and the very circum-
scribed range of the few living descendants that the genus is ap-
proaching extinction.

THE GENUS PLATYCARYA.

The genus Platycarya was characterized by Siebold and Zuccarini,
who have described so many oriental plants. It is a monotypic genus;
that is to say, it contains a single existing species, which was the
basis of the genus Yortunaea of Lindley. This single species is a
WALNUTS AND HICKORIES—BERRY. Sok

small tree of Japan and northern China, and its range is roughly
shown on the accompanying map (fig. 4) in solid black. Monotypic
genera usually have a very interesting geological history, as, for
example, Sassafras, Comptonia, Ginkgo, and many others. However,
no fossil remains of Platycarya have been discovered, and this is
probably due to the fact that the vast continent of Asia is practically

unexplored.
CONCLUSION.

Forestry experts warn us that commercial hickory is growing
scarce, just as the black walnut is already scarce. Aside from our
enjoyment of their fruits and the very special practical ends which
the wood fulfills we should not forget the sentiment which attaches
to a family of such magnificent trees, a family with an ancestry, as
we have just seen, extending back millions of years to a far-off time
when the dominant animal population of the globe was the uncouth
reptiles of the Cretaceous, a time when the evolution of the mam-
malia had not yet been wrought out, and when man was a far-distant
promise, not even hinted at in the teeming life of that age. While
we can never hope to bring back the primeval forests of our ancestors,
we can use the intelligence which has been so slowly acquired through
the ages in conserving these magnificent tree relics of bygone ages.
THE FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD.!

By FREDERICK V. COVILLE.

When the leaves of a tree fall to the ground they begin to decay
and ultimately they are disintegrated and their substance becomes
incorporated with the other elements of the soil. The same thing
happens with the leaves, stems, and roots of herbaceous plants.
Such organic matter is one of the chief sources of food for plants,
and its presence in the soil is therefore of fundamental importance
in the maintenance of the vegetative mantle of the earth.

In a series of experiments from 1906 to 1910 the speaker showed
that a condition of acidity is a primary requirement of the blue-
berry (Vaccinium), laurel (Halmia latifolia), trailing arbutus (£'pi-
gaea repens), and other plants associated with them in natural dis-
tribution. Other kinds of plants and plant associations require, on
the contrary, a neutral or alkaline soil.

It is the purpose of the present address to show how the leaves of
trees in the process of the formation of leafmold produce at one
time or under one set of circumstances a condition of soil acidity, at
another time or under other circumstances a condition of alkalinity,
and after calling attention to the acidity of the soil as a funda-
mental factor in plant ecology, to point out that a knowledge of
certain phenomena in the decay of leaves is essential to a correct
understanding of the distribution of vegetation over the surface of
the earth and its adaptation to the uses of man.

In the early experiments with blueberries it had been found that
these plants grew successfully in certain acid soils composed chiefly
of partially rotted oak leaves. On the rather natural assumption
that the more thorough the decomposition of this material the more
luxuriant would be the growth of the blueberry plants, some old oak
leafmold was secured for further experiments. It had been rotting
for about five years and all evidences of leaf structure had disap-
peared. It had become a black mellow vegetal mold.

1 Address of the retiring president, Washington Academy of Sciences, presented at the

annual meeting of the Academy, Jan. 16, 1913. Reprinted with author’s revision from
the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 3, pp. 77 to 89, Feb. 4, 1913.

333
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

When blueberry plants were placed in mixtures containing this
mold they did not respond with luxuriant growth. On the contrary
their leaves turned purple and afterward yellowish, their growth
dwindled to almost nothing, and at the end of the season when com-
pared with other blueberry plants grown in a soil mixture in which
the oak leafmold was replaced by only partially decomposed oak
leaves the plants in the oak leafmold were found to weigh only
one-fifth as much as the others. This astonishing result is exactly
contrary to the ordinary conception. We have been accustomed to
believe that the more thoroughly decomposed the organic matter of
a soil the more luxuriant its vegetation. In this case, however,
thorough decomposition of the soil was exceedingly injurious to,the
plants. f

This remarkable difference in effect between partially decomposed
and thoroughly decomposed oak leaves was found to be correlated
with a difference in the chemical reaction of the two materials, the
partially decomposed oak leaves being acid, when tested with phe-
nolphthalein, and the oak leafmold allxaline.

With rose cuttings and alfalfa seedlings in the same two soils
exactly opposite results followed, those in the oak leafmold making
a luxuriant growth, those in the partially decomposed oak leaves
showing every sign of starvation.

Every botanist is familiar with the rich woods where trillium,
spring beauty (Claytonia), mertensia, and blood root (Sanguinaria
canadensis) delight to grow, in a black mellow mold made up chiefly
of rotted leaves. He is familiar, too, with the sandy pine and oak
woods where grow huckleberries (Gaylussacia), laurel (almia lati-
folia), princess pine (CAimaphila), the pink lady’s shpper (Cyp-
ripedium acaule), and trailing arbutus (pigaea repens). The soil
here also is made up chiefly of rotting leaves and roots. Yet one does
not look for trilliums in laurel thickets, or for arbutus among the
bloodroots. Either habitat is utterly repugnant to the plants of the
other.

Tests of the two habitats show that the trilhum soil is alkaline,
the other acid, reactions corresponding exactly to those observed in
the cultural experiments already described, rose cuttings and alfalfa
requiring an alkaline soil, blueberries an acid soil. The difference
is as conspicuous in nature as in the laboratory and the greenhouse.

What are the conditions under which rotting leaves develop these
opposite chemical reactions?

In a ravine in the Arlington National Cemetery, near Washington,
where the autumn leaf fall from an oak grove has been dumped
year after year for many years, every stage in the decomposition of
oak leaves may be observed, from the first softening of the dry
FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD—COVILLE. go

brown leaf by rain to the black mellow leafmold in which all traces
of leaf structure have disappeared. When freshly fallen the leaves
show 0.4normalacidity.t. Those not familiar with the chemical expres-
sion “normal acidity ” may perhaps most readily understand the term
by reference to ordinary lemon juice, which has very nearly normal
acidity in the chemical sense. Fresh oak leaves may be conceived
therefore as having about one-third the acidity of lemon juice, gram
to cubic centimeter. From a soil standpoint such a degree of acidity
is exceedingly high. Probably no tree or flowering plant could live
if its roots were imbedded in a soil as acid as this. A correct ap-
_preciation of the excessive acidity of freshly fallen leaves enables
one to understand why it is that the leaves of our lawn trees, if
allowed to lie and leach upon the grass, either injure or destroy it.
On such neglected lawns the turf grows thin, mossy, and starved.

From the height of their initial acidity it is a long descending
course through the various stages of leaf decomposition to the point
of chemical neutrality, and then upward a lesser distance on the
hill of alkalinity, in the black leafmold stage.

In order to ascertain the rate of decomposition in leaves of various
kinds, observations were begun in the autumn of 1909 on leaves of
silver maple (Acer saccharinum), sugar maple (Acer saccharum),
red oak (Quercus rubra), and scrub pine (Pinus virginiana), ex-
posed to the weather in barrels and in concrete pits. In one experi-
ment a mass of trodden silver maple leaves 2 feet in depth, with an
initial acidity of 0.92 normal, was reduced in a single year to a 3-inch
layer of black mold containing only a few fragments of leaf skeletons
and giving an alkaline reaction. In these experiments sugar maple
leaves have shown a slower rate of decomposition than those of silver
maple, while red oak leaves still show an acidity of 0.010 normal after
three years of exposure, and leaves of Virginia pine an acidity of
0.055 normal under the same conditions.

The alkalinity of leafmold is due chiefly to the lime it contains,
the lime content expressed in terms of calcium oxid often reaching
2 to 8 per cent of the dry weight. One sample had a lime content of
2.55 per cent. Many of the soils that result directly and exclusively
from the decomposition of limestone have a lower percentage of lime
than this. An alkaline leafmold containing 2 to 3 per cent of lime is
properly regarded as a highly calcareous soil. Yet such a deposit may
be formed in a region where the underlying soil is distinctly non-
calcareous, the lime content of the soil being only a small fraction
of 1 per cent and the soil reaction being acid.

1Jn the acidity determinations, made by Mr. J. F. Breazeale, phenolphthalein was used
as an indicator, the carbon dioxid having been first boiled off. For a full description

of the method followed, see Coville, 1910, p. 27, Experiments in blueberry culture, Bul-
letin 193, Bureau of Plant Industry, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Whence comes the abundance of lime in an alkaline, richly cal-
careous leafmold formed over a soil distinguished by an actual
poverty of calcareous matter ?

If the leafmold is rich in lime the leaves from which it is derived
should also be rich in lime. A determination of the amount of cal-
cium oxid in the dried freshly fallen leaves of some of our well-
known trees shows this to be true, as illustrated by the following

selections: 1
Per cent of

Kind of leaves. calcium oxid.
RECOM NCO LENnCWS: TUT) oe Se oe eee vies
Silver anaple?(Aicers succherinum) 2 eee eee 1.88
Pin oaks (Quercus, palustris)—_-2 128 JJ oe \ Senha ee 1. 91
Sweet gum (Liquidambar styracifiua) _~_-__________________ 1.92
BurloOnk(OUCTCUS MAChOCOnDO) 6. eee 2. 39
Mas! ANETICONG) 2 2 8 a A
Nussremeaple” CAGE? SaCCharum) 22 ee Se er
Tulip tree (Liriodendron tulipifera) _-_-_____--_____ dS Oe
ickory.. Chicora myrsticaeformis) t= te eae eee 3. 66
GingkomCGinkgo, 0tlovG) 2-4-8. a. 3 a eee 4.38
BaSSWwOOd mn ChiG CMeTiCdnd)) =. 6 ae eee eee 4.50
Orange (Citrus aurantium) —-——~------_- sone es i 6. 77

These analyses show that the amount of lime in the leaves of trees
is often astonishingly large.

It should be understood that the lime does not exist in the leaf in
the form of actual calcium oxid. It is largely combined with the
acids of the leaf and serves in part to neutralize them, but is insuffi-
cient in amount to effect a complete neutralization. In all the kinds
of leaves and herbage thus far examined the net result is an acid
condition, although lime may be present in large amount. Thus in
the leaves of silver maple a condition of excessive acidity exists,
about 0.9 normal, notwithstanding the presence of nearly 2 per cent
of lime.

As the decomposition of such leaves progresses the acid sub-
stances are disorganized and largely dissipated in the form of gases
and liquids, while the lime, being only siightly soluble, remains with
the residue of decomposition, the black leafmold, and renders it
alkaline.

In soils poor in lime, trees and other plants constituting the vege-
tative mantle of the earth may be regarded as machines for concen-
trating lime at the surface of the ground. This lime is drawn up by
the roots in dilute solution from lower depths, is concentrated in
the foliage, and the concentrate is transferred to the ground by the
fall and decomposition of the leaves. The proverbial agricultural
fertility of the virgin timberlands of our country was undoubtedly

1 The lime determinations were made by Mr. J. F. Breazeale, of the Bureau of Chem-
istry, Department of Agriculture.
FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD—COVILLE. 387

due in large part to the lime accumulated on the forest floor by the
trees in preceding centuries, and to the consequent alkalinity of such
surface soils when the timber had been removed and the leaf litter
was thoroughly decomposed. After a generation or two of reckless
removal of crops the surface accumulation of lime was depleted and
unless the underlying soil was naturally calcareous a condition of
infertility ensued, which, for the purposes of ordinary agriculture,
could be remedied only by the artificial application of lime.

The chief agents in the decay of leaves are undoubtedly fungi and
bacteria. There are other agencies, however, that contribute greatly
to the rapidity of decay. Important among these are earthworms,
larvee of flies and beetles, and myriapods or thousand-legged worms.
Animals of all these groups exist in myriads in the leaf litter. They
eat the leaves, grind them, partially decompose them in the process
of digestion, and restore them again to the soil, well prepared for the
further decomposing action of the microscopic organisms of decay.

The importance of earthworms in hastening the decay of vegetal
matter was pointed out long ago by Darwin in his classical studies
on that subject. The importance of myriapods, however, as con-
tributing to the formation of leafmold has not been adequately
recognized. In the canyon of the Potomac River, above Washington,
on the steeper forested talus slopes, especially those facing north-
ward, the formation of alkaline leafmold is in active progress. The
purer deposits are found in pockets among the rocks, where the leaf-
mold is not in contact with the mineral soil and does not become
mixed with it. The slope directly opposite Plummers Island is a
good example of such localities. Here during all the warm months
the fallen leaves of the mixed hardwood forest are occupied by an
army of myriapods, the largest and most abundant being a species
known as Spirobolus marginatus. The adults are about 3 inches in
length and a quarter of an inch in diameter. They remain under-
neath the leaves in the daytime and emerge in great numbers at
night. On one occasion a thousand were picked up by Mr. H. S.
Barber on an area 10 by 100 feet, without disturbing the leaves.
On another occasion an area 4 by 20 feet yielded 320 of these myria-
pods, the leaf litter in this case being carefully searched. Every-
where are evidences of the activity of these animals in the deposits
of ground-up leaves and rotten wood. Careful measurements of the
work of the animals in captivity show that the excrement of the
adults amounts to about half a cubic centimeter each per day. It is
estimated on the basis of the moist weight of the material that these
animals are contributing each year to the formation of leafmold at
the rate of more than 2 tons per acre.

The decay of leaves is greatly accelerated also when the under-
lying soil is calcareous and alkaline, it being immaterial whether the

44863°—sm 1913 22

338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

lime is derived from a limestone formation or is a concentrate of
the vegetation. On the rich bottom-land islands of the upper Poto-
mac the autumn leaf fall barely lasts through the following summer,
so rapid is its decay. These bottom lands have an alkaline flora, and
they are found to have an alkaline reaction, caused by the lime
brought to them in the flood waters.

The acceleration of leaf decay by an alkaline substratum is due to
prompt neutralization of the acid leachings of the leaves and also
to the fact that such a substratum harbors with great efficiency many
of the most active organisms of decay, from bacteria to earthworms.

Tt must not be understood that in a state of nature the decomposi-
tion of leaves is always so simple and uniform a process as has been
described, or that it always results in the formation of an alkaline
leafmold. The chief factors that contribute to the acceleration of
leaf decay have already been enumerated, but there are other condi-
tions of nature that obstruct and retard this process. Under certain
conditions the progress of decomposition may be permanently sus-
pended long before the alkaline stage is reached. The soils thus
formed, although high in humus like a true leafmold, have an acid
reaction and a wholly different flora.

Examples of such suspensions of leaf decay are found in bogs,
where the deposited vegetation is protected from the organisms of
decay by submergence in nonalkaline water, and on uplands where
the soil is derived from sand, sandstone, granite, or schist, in which
there is not enough lime or other basic material to neutralize the
acidity of the decaying leaves.

There is, of course, a supply of lime in the leaves themselves, and
as a new layer of leaves is added to the soil each year it might be
expected that there would result an unlimited concentration of lime
in the surface soil and that all surface soils that supported a growth
of vegetation would ultimately become alkaline. Such an indefinite
accumulation of lime is prevented, however, by another factor which
requires consideration. As soon as each successive layer of leaf
litter is sufficiently decayed to permit the roots of plants to enter it
and feed upon it, the lime it contains, together with other mineral
constituents, begins to be absorbed. This loss of lime from the de-
caying leaves is sufficient, under many situations in nature, to pre-
vent the decaying mass from reaching the alkaline stage. Decom-
position is suspended while the leaf litter is still acid. True leaf-
mold, with an alkaline reaction, is never formed under such condi-
tions. The leaf deposit remains permanently acid and such areas
bear an acid flora. In the vicinity of Washington one often sees hills
of quartz gravel, wind swept and rain washed, where the soil con-
tained little lime in the beginning and none could be brought by
flood waters or by the dust of the atmosphere. Characteristic plants
FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD—COVILLE. 339

of such hills are black jack oak (Quercus marilandica), trailing
arbutus, wild pansy (Viola pedata), azalea, and huckleberry, all
plants adapted to acute conditions of acidity. If one’s front yard
happens to coincide with what was once such a spot, let him not
undertake the herculean task of growing roses and a bluegrass turf.
Let his lawn be of redtop and his shrubs be azaleas, laurel, and rhodo-
dendrons.

Another factor that contributes to the suspension of leaf decom-
position is the acid leachings from each new deposit of autumn
leaves. Various acidity determinations show that after lying ex-
posed to the weather over winter, leaves ordinarily have only one-
fifth to one-tenth the acidity they possessed when they fell to the
ground. It has been found experimentally that the leachings from
fresh leaves will serve to acidulate an underlying soil of moderate
alkalinity. Unless, therefore, the conditions of a locality are such
as to effect the decomposition of one year’s leaf fall before the next
year’s deposit takes place, a permanent acid leaf cover is established.
In many of the oak forests on the sandy coastal plain eastward from
Washington there is a permanent accumulation of such material.
The roots of the trees and undershrubs bind the half-rotted leaves
into a dense mat. The principal trees are oaks. The principal
shrubs that make up the dense underbrush belong to the Ericacee
and related families. There is no mellow leafmold nor any of the
leafmold plants.

This kind of mat or turf is of such widespread occurrence, is so
distinct in its appearance, and so characteristic in the type of
vegetation it supports that it should have a name of its own, in order
that it may come to be recognized as one of the important pheno-
mena of nature.

Because of its resemblance to bog peat in appearance, structure,
and chemical composition, and because it supports a type of vege-
tation similar to that of bog peat it has been proposed to adopt for
it the name upland peat. As defined in an earlier publication,?
upland peat is “a nonpaludose deposit of organic matter, chiefly
leaves, in a condition of suspended and imperfect decomposition and
still showing its original leaf structure, the suspension of decompo-
sition being due to the development and maintenance of an acid con-
dition which is inimical to the growth of the microorganisms of
decay.”

Upland peat would have become leafmold had not the orderly
normal course of leaf decomposition been suspended and conditions
of acidity established which rendered the further progress of that
decomposition impossible.

(cove, ar he Experiments in blueberry culture, Bulletin 198, Bureau of Plant
Industry, U. 5 eeoetisent of Agriculture. : ; i oF gary
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

The rate at which leaves decay is greatly influenced by tempera-
ture. In the cooler northern latitudes and at high elevations in
lower latitudes the rate of decay is slower and the formation of
upland peat is more general than in warmer climates. Except on
calcareous soils the higher Appalachian peaks, from 4,000 to 6,000
feet, bear an almost continuous layer of upland peat, from a few
inches to a foot or more in depth. Their great rhododendron
thickets are rooted in deep beds of upland peat. The spruce forests
of the higher New England mountains lay down a similar formation.

In the treeless West the decay of leaves where it is not actually
suspended by dryness is rapid and complete. At the higher eleva-
tions, however, where the land begins to be timbered the organic
matter does not fully decay, and in the heavily timbered areas the
deposit of upland peat often becomes characteristically deep: and
continuous. In fighting creeping fires in the yellow pine forests at
the lower elevations the favorite and most effective tool is the rake,
which parts the light leaf litter and puts a stop to the progress of
the flames. But in the dense fir and spruce timber the forest ranger’s
chief tools are the spade and the mattock, with which he must cut
through the thick layer of dry peat to the mineral soil beneath if he
is to effectually combat a slowly creeping fire.

So strong is the tendency to the formation of peat under the low
temperatures and heavy precipitation of the high mountains that
even on limestone soils a superficial layer of upland peat is sometimes
accumulated. Such a condition exists on innumerable areas at an
elevation of about 10,000 feet in the Manti National Forest of Utah.
On the basaltic plateau of extreme northeastern Oregon, where the
soil is naturally alkaline in reaction the lodgepole pine and Douglas
fir forests at elevations of 5,000 feet and over lay down a continuous
bed of peat which supports a characteristic acid flora. A quantita-
tive test of one of the acid flora soils of this region, at an elevation
of 8,000 feet, showed the customary high acidity at the surface, and
successively lower degrees of acidity underneath, until at the depth
of 5 feet, at the surface of the basaltic rock, the reaction was neutral.

The group of plants that forms the best index to the acid char-
acter of a soil is the family Ericacee, and the related families
Vacciniacee and Pyrolacee. When these occur in vigorous growth
on a calcareous soil or among calcareous rocks, as is sometimes
reported, one may expect to find, as the speaker in his own experience
has always found, that a layer of upland peat has been formed
above the calcareous substratum and that in this superficial layer the
roots of the plants find their nourishment, really in an acid medium,
notwithstanding the alkalinity beneath.

Continued observations on the association of certain types of
wild plants with acid and nonacid soils, supported by cultural experi-
FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD—COVILLE. 341

ments, are in all respects confirmatory of the theory that soil acidity
is one of the most influential factors in plant distribution and plant
ecology.

The relation of leafmold to the existence of acid or nonacid soil
conditions may now be viewed with appreciative recognition. If the
conditions in any area are such that the decay of leaves follows
the uninterrupted course that leads to the formation of leafmold a
state of soil alkalinity is reached, with all the resultant effects on
the growth and distribution of the native vegetation. If, on the
other hand, the conditions are such that the course of decay is
diverted into the channel that ends in the formation of peat, a con-
dition of permanent acidity is indicated, with the accompaniment of
all those peculiar plant phenomena which are characteristic of such
a state.

It is perhaps desirable to call attention here to the fact that while
partially decomposed vegetation appears to be the chief source of
soil acidity, there are mineral constituents of the soil, of wide dis-
tribution and great abundance, which are also acid in reaction. The
acidity of which we hear so much in agricultural writings as char-
acteristic of soils worn out by long years of careless farming is
doubtless due in large part to a natural mineral acidity unsheathed
by the removal of the lime that once neutralized it, for, like the
leaves of trees, many of the crops of agriculture are heavy with lime
and their uncompensated removal year after year has its inevitable
cumulative result.

The speaker hopes that he does not overstep the proper bounds of
this address if he calls attention to conditions in bog deposits which
almost exactly parallel the two types of terrestial organic formation,
leafmold and upland peat. In bogs with alkaline waters, as, for
example, those underlain by marl, a condition of permanent acidity
is not maintained in the lower strata of the deposit. As far upward
as the alkaline waters penetrate, the antiseptic acids are not present,
decay continues, and the resulting formation is not peat, but a plastic
fine-grained black material that may best, perhaps, be designated by
that much misused term, muck. Muck corresponds in bog deposits to
leafmold in upland deposits, contrasting with bog peat as leafmold
contrasts with upland peat.

We may follow this idea one step further. Coal is petrified peat.
As the purest peats are not formed in alkaline waters, it can not be
expected that the best coal will be found in situations indicative of
alkaline conditions. If coal is found immediately overlying beds of
marl or limestone it is to be expected that such coal will be of an
impure type, corresponding in origin to muck. The speaker takes
the liberty of suggesting to his geological friends that in reconstruct-
ing in theory the climatic and other conditions under which the
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

various kinds of coal were deposited they may safely hypothesize
that the purer coals were laid down in waters that were acid.

Allusion has been made to the peculiar characteristics of plants
that inhabit peat. Among these peculiarities perhaps none is more
remarkable than the presence of mycorhizal fungi on the roots of
many, perhaps most, peat-loving plants. It is known that peat is
very poorly supplied with nitrogen in the form of nitrates, which
most plants of alkaline soils appear to require. Organic nitrogen,
however, is abundant in peat, and there is very strong evidence that
these mycorhizal fungi take up this organic nitrogen, and probably
atmospheric nitrogen also, and transfer it in some acceptable form
to the plants in whose roots they live. Unfortunately, the work of
botanists on these fungi has been confined largely to the determina-
tion of the mere anatomical fact of their occurrence on the roots or
in certain of the root cells, with descriptions of their size and con-
figuration. Little attention has been paid to the isolation of the
fungi, their culture and identification, or to the demonstration of
their physiological action. The only hypothesis, however, that satis-
factorily explains what we already know about the mycorhizal fungi
is that they prevent the nitrogen starvation of peat-inhabiting plants.
It is well known that certain peat-bog plants, as, for example, sundew
(Drosera), trap insects, digest them, and assimilate their nitrogen.
It is to be hoped that within a few years we shall be equally well
informed about the function of the mycorhizal fungi. But even now
we may speak of their probable function with confidence.

The mycorhizal fungi are known to occur on most of the trees that
inhabit acid situations, for example, chestnut, beech, oaks, and coni-
fers. The ordinary hillside pasture in New England is a mycorhizal
cosmos. The club mosses have them, the sweet fern (Comptonia),
the blueberries, the ferns, the orchids. In our sandy pine and oak
woods about Washington almost all the vegetation possesses myco-
rhizal fungi. One comes to think of the giant oaks as dependent on
these minute organisms.

Were Solomon to write a new edition of the Proverbs to-day I am
sure that he would tell us ‘There be four things which are little
upon the earth, but they are exceeding strong,” and that among the
four he would include “ The little brothers of the forest, they seek
not the light but the leafy earth; they prepare for the oak the
strength that is his.”

Our American agriculture, derived in the main front the agricul-
ture of the Mediterranean region, and that in turn from the older
agriculture of Persia, is chiefly made up of plants that thrive best in
alkaline or neutral soils. Although many of our soils in the eastern
United States are naturally acid, we try with only indifferent success
to grow in them these alkaline plants of southern Europe and the
FORMATION OF LEAFMOLD—COVILLE. 343

East. Although some of our agricultural plants are tolerant of
acidity, our agriculturalists have not yet recognized the possibility
of building up for acid soils a special agriculture in which all the
crops are acid-tolerant. We may yet, perhaps, utilize for agricul-
tural purposes even the sandy acid lands of the coastal plain instead
of turning them over as we now do to the lank huckleberry picker,
_whose lonesome garden is all that he is able to reclaim by present
methods from the imaginary wilderness that surrounds him. Yet
these lands contain all sorts of delicious native fruits, and a natural
vegetation rich and luxuriant after its own manner.

Had our agriculture originated not in the alkaline soils of the
Orient, but among the aboriginal peoples of the bogs of Scotland, or
of the sandy pine barrens of our Atlantic Coastal Plain, we should
have entirely different ideas of soil fertility from those we now pos-
sess. If our cultivated fruits were large and otherwise improved
forms of the blueberry, the service berry (Amelanchier), the thorn-
apple (Crataegus), and the beach plum (Prunus maritima), if our
only grains were rye and buckwheat, and our only hay redtop and
vetch, and if our root crops consisted of potatoes and carrots only,
our high-priced agricultural lands would be the light sandy acid soils
and the drained bogs, while our deep limestone soils would be con-
demned to use for the pasturage of cattle and of sheep.

Thus far man has devoted himself largely to the utilization of the
plants of the leafmold, which have gathered up for him the wealth
of theearth. Let him now, I say, turn his attention also to the plants
of the peat and try whether they will not yield to him in increased
measure the luxuriance of foliage and of fruit that they have always
yielded without assistance to nature herself.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF ORCHID CULTIVATION AND
ITS BEARING UPON EVOLUTIONARY THEORIES.'

By J. COSTANTIN.

When crowds throng our horticultural exhibitions they are struck
chiefly by the brilliant splendor of color, the rich variety of forms,
and the strange transformations produced in the vegetable kingdom
by the art of the plant breeder; but they are often incapable of appre-
ciating the true importance of all the wonders displayed before their
gaze. Even a philosopher who had a profound knowledge of the
affairs of nature would find, in a visit to such an exhibition, material
for reflections of deep import, and the conclusions resulting from his
inspection would deserve the attention of the public at large and of
all men who think.

Unfortunately, the philosopher rarely takes the pains to acquire
the knowledge possessed by the specialist, and the specialist gen-
erally concerns himself but little with general theories, with the
result that all those who seek knowledge remain in ignorance. Let
us attempt, despite the difficulty of the subject, to assist them in
their search.

To render our task less difficult let us limit our attention to the
most brilliant corner of the exposition, and everyone will understand
at once that we are to speak of that devoted to the orchids. It is,
in fact, the section where the visitors are most numerous; it is there
that they see the most beautiful flowers and sometimes the most
strange ones, and it is there that we find the part whose significance
the public understands least.

What at once strikes anyone who examines the orchids is the
bizarre aspect of these plants—their slender forms, their thick,
fleshy leaves, their aerial roots, their bulbous bases, all contrasting with
the incomparable brilliance of their corollas. Everyone still feels
something of the sensations, so well described by de Puydt,? which
were experienced by visitors to the orchid houses long ago when these

Translation of “Les progrés de la culture des fleurs et leur importance pour les
theories transformistes,” by J. Costantin, by permission of the editors, from Scientia,
International Review of Scientific Synthesis, published by Williams & Norgate, London,
No. 3, 1911.

2De Puydt, Les Orchidées, p. 16.

345
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

plants were beginning to be grown in numbers in Europe: “ You
would enter the house full of orchids with eager curiosity, as though
it were some shrine where a tangible mystery was to be unfolded.
The method of growth without soil, the aerial roots, the heavy
atmosphere, the abnormal leaves, the strange aspect, would grip
you all at once, and if blossoms were open with their peculiar forms,
fleshy petals, somber colors, and penetrating perfumes, you stood
overwhelmed at the display and at the patience of the gardener.”

What used to cause so much astonishment at the method of growth
of orchids resulted from a peculiarity of these plants which was then
little understood, namely, that they are children of the air, or, in
other words, epiphytes. In Europe we know but little of plants of
this class, for we have only the lichens and mosses upon the trunks
of our trees to give us any idea of them. In the warmer regions of
the globe, on the contrary, this mode of existence is widespread, and
for many ages the seeds of certain species, embracing sometimes
almost entire families, like the orchids and bromeliads, have been
able to solve victoriously the delicate problem of existence imposed
upon an organism compelled to live and grow upon the branch of a
tree, exposed to the burning rays of the sun, which strive to scorch it,
and in great danger of dying from starvation in consequence of lack
of food to supply its demands. This epiphytic life attracted the
attention of Osbeck, who collected plants in Asia and Malaysia for
Linneus in the eighteenth century. He sent the latter a great num-
ber of curious types, which were all described by the celebrated
Swedish botanist under the name of Epidendrum, he wishing to de-
note thus by the generic name the fact that they had the common
characteristic of growing upon trees.

A Portuguese missionary, Loureiro, a distinguished botanist who
studied the flora of Indo-China, was very strongly impressed by the
habit of growth of Aerides odoratum, which lived “ freely suspended
in the air with neither food nor any base, either terrestrial or
aquatic.” In 1812 Loddiges, publishing the first catalogue of orchids
cultivated in the hothouses of Hackney, England, declared that he
had received Oncidiwm ensifolium from a traveler returning from
Montevideo, who had seen the plant flower, deprived of all soil, in
the cabin he occupied on shipboard.

Hortictilturists tried from the first to reproduce artificially the
conditions for aerial life, and it is thus that the celebrated Joseph
Banks, in 1817, described the first attempts at culture in frames sus-
pended from the roof of the greenhouse. Treatment of orchids in
pots with some sort of earth, which had been the method employed
in the first attempts at cultivation at the end of the eighteenth cen-
tury, was altogether barbarous and inevitably resulted in the death
ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. 347

of the delicate aerial plant. No one would think of making a fish
live out of water. How could one expect that a species accustomed
to a free epiphytic life would accommodate itself without injury to

a low terrestrial existence ?

The proper mode of cultivation once found was 3 parfacted little by
little. For certain types found exclusively in the tops of trees there
was devised a plan of fastening them to a piece of wood with brass
wire together with a little moss to furnish permanent moisture. An
aquatic moss, sphagnum, seemed particularly suited to fill this rdle
because of its power of imbibing water. It was in 1841 that Paxton
first mentioned it as having been employed by him in the Duke of
Devonshire’s greenhouses. It remained to discover the compost com-
monly employed for most orchids, which consists of an intimate mix-
ture of sphagnum and fibers of fern roots (peat of the English,
Osmunda, Polypodium), after these two elements have been finely
cut, this mixture covering fragments of broken pots used to furnish
drainage (potsherds placed in the lower part of the receptacles in
which the plant is put). But all the tropical orchids are not aerial,
as was soon learned, and when the lady’s-slippers arrived to furnish
the handsomest ornaments of European greenhouses they were culti-
vated in pots, for they were terrestrial plants, a little fresh earth
being added in their case to the compost which suited most orchids.!

There was no thought of cultivating species accustomed to a tropi-
eal climate except in very warm greenhouses; and in 1830 Lindley,
who contributed so much to the progress of the science of orchids,
insisted upon the necessity of maintaining for cultivated types the
two factors which characterize equatorial climates—heat and hu-
midity. It was immediately after this that the technique was per-
fected which made it possible to obtain in greenhouses an elevated
temperature along with an atmosphere charged with vapor to the
point of saturation by frequent sprinkling not only of the plants
but of the walks, walls, and benches, thus reproducing artificially the
constant rains, the torrents which descend almost daily upon many
equatorial countries.

Unfortunately this method of treatment, which succeeded wonder-
fully with certain plants, resulted, with many others, in lamentable
failure. Lindley and other horticulturists in 1830 agreed that all
tropical plants are accustomed to a uniform climate, but beneath the

1A recent and important perfection of this method consists in treating differently the
species which live in calcareous soil and those which shun it. The latter should be
moistened with rain water if the running water of the region where they are grown
contains lime (as is usually the case in France) ; and as potsherds for drainage pieces
of broken flower pots are used. In the case of species preferring calcareous soil, like
Cypripedium bellatulum, concolor, niveum, Godefroyae, drainage is furnished by pieces of

mortar; in addition, pieces of calcareous rocks are mixed with the compost, and the
plants are moistened with ordinary water.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Equator it is necessary only to ascend the slopes of a mountain to see
the climate change. The mountain species of warm regions should
not be treated like essentially tropical plants that are accustomed ex-
clusively to elevated temperatures. There are plenty of orchids, and
not the least beautiful ones, which grow in the neighborhood of snow
in regions where the thermometer falls to zero. The explorations of
Skinner in the cordilleras of Guatemala; of Gibson in India, notably
on Khasia Hill; of Gardner in the Organ Mountains of Brazil; of
William Lobb in the Peruvian Andes; of Mottley in the mountains of
Java, gave information almost simultaneously, about 1835, of the
wonderful flowers which bloom at high altitudes. From this same
year dates an important discovery by Joseph Cooper, the skilled
gardener of the Earl of Fitzwilliam, According to him orchids had
often been cultivated at too high a temperature, and the mistake had
been made, from fear of cold, of keeping them in air-tight houses;
thus frequently they had been suffocated, for in the confined atmos-
phere, charged with carbon dioxide, life became very difficult, and it
was indeed remarkable that failures had not been more frequent.
The methods of cultivation recommended by Cooper tended grad-
ually to classify greenhouses in three categories, according to the
temperature maintained in them—hothouses, temperate houses, and
cold houses. The last are to-day graced with plants of the first rank,
among which must be mentioned first the Odontoglossums, which rival
Cattleyas in the beauty of their flowers. It was not until 1863 that
the most remarkable species of the genus, Odontoglossum crispum,
was introduced. This plant was sent simultaneously by three col-
lectors who were ardent explorers of the same regions of America—
Weir, Blunt, and Schlim—who traveled separately, the first for the
London Horticultural Society, the second for the Englsh horticul-
turist, Hugo Low, and the third for the Maison Linden, of Belgium.
This “ steeplechase ” for the introduction of an orchid shows that in
Europe there was a violent attempt made and a considerable expendi-
ture of effort upon all sides to add a marvel more to the greenhouses,

One may conceive from the account of such exertions that the
growing of orchids had received a great impulse. All the great
commercial houses at once employed explorers to search the less
known and least accessible countries for all the rare species, and by
thousands the orchids began to flow into Europe. Travelers profited
by the dormant period of the plants during the dry season to remove
the epiphytes from their supports and ship them in cases, as if they
were dry or dead objects. The traffic thus inaugurated at the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century has been continued to the present
time, and to indicate its importance T need cite only a single figure,
which is sufficiently eloquent and significant: There are large horti-
ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. 349

cultural establishments in England which import every year from
one hundred to two hundred thousand plants.’

The reader may perhaps ask, when he reads these fantastic figures,
why so much labor is expended, and he will think that it would be
much easier to sow the seeds, which can be obtained by the thousands.
This is exactly what all the horticulturists tried to do in the early
days of orchid culture, but all their attempts were without result, and
for a long time the secret of germination was unknown. The seeds
have peculiar characteristics that are not found in those of other
plants. They are extremely small, without albumen, inclosed in a
tegument, and formed of a simple minute mass of similar, undifferen-
tiated cells. The minuteness of the seeds is compensated for by their
great number, and a mature capsule contains an enormous number
of seeds, which are described as scobiform, they being thus compared
to sawdust. Evidently if it had been known how to make the seeds
germinate, orchids could have been multiplied in a prodigious fash-
ion, and they would have become among our commonest plants. That
they have not become so is because for a long time it was impossible
to revive life in the seeds. We read in an important work published
in 1822 by the French botanist Du Petit Thouars, who distinguished
himself by the study of the orchids of Bourbon and Madagascar:
“Tt was believed for a long time that the seeds were incapable of the
first act of vegetation, and it is only a short time since that Dr. Salis-
bury has observed it in England.” Dr. Salisbury’s discovery seems
to have been purely accidental, and when other observers attempted
to repeat his experiment they met with complete failure. Neverthe-
less, as the nineteenth century went by, examples of germination
attributable to chance multiplied, but no one knew of any method
tending to reproduce the phenomenon with certainty. However,
some keen observer, whose name has remained unknown? to science,
unless it may be Dominy, who will be mentioned later, noticed that
the accidental and infrequent germination took place on the compost
surrounding the mother plant or, better still, on the roots which were
in the compost but projected more or less completely from it. This
observation, the result of a lesson taught by nature, was not lost,
and it was thus that the mysterious method of germination upon the
base of the mother plant was inaugurated. This strange and unin-
telligible technique was not published, so we can not honor its in-
ventor. It evidently remained a trade secret which for a very long

1 There are regions in South America, notably in the district of Pacho, celebrated for
the famous Odontoglossuin crispum, where all the Indian population is employed in
hunting for orchids, small villages furnishing hundreds of these hunters. This intense
exploitation makes one fear the rapid disappearance of some of the beautiful species.

2Jt is certainly Neumann (chef des serres du Museum de Paris) in 1844 and Moore in
Glasnevin (Dublin, Ireland). See Costantin, Les étapes d’une découverte biologique. Les
hybrides d’Orchidées (Revue scientifique, 29 fevrier, 1915, 257).
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

time was unknown not only to the public, but even to the most skill-
ful horticulturists: There is every reason to believe, however, that
it was in the Veitch houses at Chelsea that the methods were per-
fected which enabled Dominy, who was employed as a gardener in
that great establishment, to dare undertake a work of long duration
which was to produce wonderful results. I refer to orchid hybridiza-
tion. The work of hybridization always occupies the attention of
horticulturists whenever they introduce a new plant. It has been
carried on with such great success for the begonias, pelargoniums,
and chrysanthemums. If up to the middle of the nineteenth century
they had not undertaken the task with orchids it was only because
they were rendered powerless by their inability to secure germina-
tion; and horticultural activity, rendered fruitless, had to exercise
itself in some other direction to satisfy the admirers of these beauti-
ful plants. It was thus that the importations took the prodigious
flight described above, and that the number of cultivated species came
to be so enormous—from 2,000 to 6,000 in the whole family. No-
where else in the vegetable kingdom is there another province where
the exertion has been so prodigious from this point of view.

After 1850 we enter upon a new era, although at first the change
was scarcely appreciable. Discoveries were kept concealed and their
results made their appearance very slowly, so that it was not compre-
hended at first that horticultural evolution was engaged in new
directions. Dominy, after he had been initiated by Dr. Harris into
the very peculiar specializations presented by the sexual mechanism
of the orchid flower, undertook the first cross-fertilizations. More-
over, he showed his gratitude much later, in 1869, when the first
Cypripedium hybrid appeared, for he gave it the name of Cypri-
pedium Harrisianium. This plant was a very important hybrid, but
obtained at a comparatively late date. Long before, in October,
1856, CalanthexDominyi had made its appearance. It was the
result of crossing Calanthe Masuca with Calanthe furcata. The
seeds were sown in 1853 and three years were sufficient for the ap-
pearance of a new plant, for it was indeed a new creation.

After these widely separated periods, 1856, the date of appearance
of the first orchid hybrid, and 1869, the date of appearance of the
first hybrid Cypripedium, an immense task was undertaken by hor-
ticulturists, and the number of their creations has been multiplying
in a disquieting fashion. At the present time 600 hybrids have been
obtained in the genus Cypripedium alone by crossing them with some
40 species of the Paphiopedilum found exclusively in tropical
regions of the Old World. Moreover it may be stated that the

1“A living plant is needed to render sanitary (?) the substratum in which germination
is to take place.’ Bois, Dictionnaire d’Horticulture.

ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. aha:

number 600 was obtained only by a statistical method which may be
considered too restrictive, for it was employed by Mr. Rolfe with
a view to simplifying a study rendered every day more difficult by
new creations. He has adopted the strict rule of giving only a single
name, the oldest, to all the crosses between any two species. But
this rigid rule, which is quite practical for purposes of taxonomic
study, takes no regard of the fact, which is nevertheless very im-
portant and well established, that the offspring obtained from the
same parents at the same period or at successive periods are often
very different, and especially that if an inverse crossing is made very
dissimilar hybrids result. The Cypripediums being hermaphrodite,
either of the species may be taken as father or as mother. If the rule
of nomenclature just cited is not admitted, it is not 600 but 1,500
hybrids that must be listed for this single genus. One can under-
stand how Lindley said, when Calanthe X Dominyi appeared, “ You
will drive botanists mad.” Never until then had the words of Bailey
been so true: “The garden has always been the bugbear of the
botanist.” It must be remembered that the artificial creations thus
obtained among the orchids, and especially among the lady’s-slippers,
have characters which must be emphasized, which are different from
those usually seen in chrysanthemums or roses. The immense number
of varieties that are known as belonging to these two floral types
differ from one another by peculiarities which are often infinitesimal,
sight variations in tints, habit, etc. When examined as a whole in
an exhibition there is an impression of continuity. It is seen, how-
ever, that by the accumulation of these slight differences extreme
types altogether different are obtained. Upon inspection of the
Cypripedium hybrids the impression is different; the plants that
have been crossed with one another are so unlike—separated by so
many diverse characters—that their offspring give the impression
of autonomous beings which are radically different from anything
before known and give one the idea of new beings created in every
part, for whose analogue the whole world might be searched in vain.
The hybrids thus fashioned by man’s genius have every appearance
of new species; and by the processes of cultivation and multiplication,
which consist in dividing the rhizomes, once the being has been
created by a stroke of a magic wand, we are assured of keeping it
indefinitely with all the characters which have struck us at the time
of their first appearance.

When one of these prodigies is offered in the salesrooms of the
London auctioneers there is a contest among its fond admirers for
the possession of a gem hitherto unknown, and it is not unusual to see
new hybrids sold at absurd prices. For example, Cypripedium
Thalia was sold for 300 pounds sterling ($1,500) and Cypripedium
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Germaine Opoix, produced by the skillful chief gardener of the
Luxembourg, was sold in London for 7,650 francs ($1,530).

Such high prices are justified by the rarity of the plants, by the
difficulty of producing them, and by their wonderful beauty. Some-
times it requires 20 years of effort and cultivation to succeed in ger-
mination, nurse the seedling with the closest attention, combat all
the enemies that le in wait for it, protect it from all the dangers
that threaten it, and bring it to flower. But gradually these rareties
are brought to light, and in a not far distant future the lovers of the
Cypripediums, who hitherto have had only some 50 types to choose
from, will have hundreds or even thousands. The hybrids have the
very remarkable character, so to speak, of being indefinitely prolific,
so that by crossing them among themselves their number can be
increased almost without limit.

Each grower, in searching to create a new type, pursues an ideal
which is sometimes realized in a happy fashion. Perfection is not
obtained at the first stroke, but by successive improvements it is
finally approximated. Among the most successful creations of M.
Opoix, chief gardener of the Senate, may be mentioned the off-
spring of the Luxembourg Oenanthum, which was itself celebrated
for the gigantic dimensions of its flowers. In spite of its incom-
parable qualities, this plant was not yet the phenomenon dreamed
of by the insatiable hybridizer, so he searched for new blood to infuse
into it. For this he turned to a handsome little Indian Cypripe-
dium, from the region of Bhatan, the Fairrie Cypripedium, which
had been introduced into Europe in 1855. This delicate species had
been lost successively by all the horticulturists who were ignorant
of the proper treatment to give it and the Luxembourg garden
was the only establishment which had been able to keep it. From
this instance of longevity it may be seen that an orchid well
cared for may be kept almost indefinitely. By crossing this Cypripe-
dium with the giant Oenanthum there were obtained two prodigies
among the lady’s-slippers, Germaine Opoix and Gaston Blutel, which
surpass everything thus far obtained in the splendor of the amply
spreading labellum and the warm coloring, characters manifestly in-
herited from Fairrieanum. The influence of the parents is dis-
played in these hybrids in a striking manner, as in an indefinite
number of other types, and such authentication gives to this study a
charm and a profound biological interest.

The number of new types may be increased, moreover, in the near
future, in an extraordinary manner, thanks to a discovery of the
greatest importance which is yet to be mentioned. Despite the won-
derful results just cited, those who obtained them were ignorant until
within the last few years of the true reasons for the cultural technique
they employed. They kmew this was the case from the numerous
ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. soe

failures they experienced. The yield of seeds is always irregular
and uncertain. Very often, without any apparent cause, successful
results are obtained in one greenhouse and complete failure in an-
other. Finally, although hybridizations had given first-class results
with Cypripediums, Cattleyas, and Laelias, there was a host of
genera famed for the splendor of their flowers whose seeds could not
be germinated. Such was the case with the Odontoglossums for a
long time. It was indispensable to find an explanation of these
anomalies.

The riddle is solved to-day and in such a thorough fashion that
the consequent results for an industry of the first rank will be of
the highest importance. It was known from the studies of Wahrlich,
published in 1886, that the roots of orchids invariably contain fungi.
The fact had been demonstrated long before by Schleiden von Res-
sek, Prillieux, and other botanists, but no one knew until Wahrlich
made his investigations that it was a condition existing in 500 repre-
sentatives taken at random in the orchid family, thus being a pe-
culiarity nearly universally characteristic of the group. It seemed
to me* that important consequences must result from this verifica-
tion, and that the invasion of the roots of these plants by fungi
must have affected their evolution and been the cause of their pe-
culiarities of structure and modes of life. The statement, in par-
ticular, that in all the true holosaprophytes (plants without chloro-
phyll and bearing fungi in their roots) the seed was undifferentiated,
led me to affirm that the minuteness of orchid seeds, so marked
that they are described as scobiform, was one of the remote results
of the presence of mycorhiza and due in all probability to toxins,
which, acting at a distance, prevented the development and _ pro-
duction by the embyro, as in nearly all seeds of a radicle, a hypoco-
tyl, and cotyledons.

This new point of view involved unexpected results: the seed
deprived of fungi must certainly be infected once it was placed in
the soil and it might be surmised that the failures of horticultur-
ists in their attempts to germinate seeds resulted from their ignor-
ance of the peculiarities which have just been set forth concerning
the biology of the plants. It was reserved for one of my students,
Mons. Noél Bernard, to gain the credit for the proof that these
deductions were quite correct. After having worked with the bird’s-
nest Neottia and tried vainly to germinate the microscopic seeds,
he had the good fortune upon a botanical excursion to find a cap-
sule of this plant which was bent toward the ground and had de-
hisced upon the soil. Its seeds had germinated. Upon studying
their structure he saw that they were infected by a fungus, in all

+ Costantin, La nature tropicale (Bibliothéque scientifique internationale, p. 226), 1898.
44863°—sm 1913——23
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

probability the same as that upon the roots of the parent plant.
This happy observation shed a ray of light; it explained all the
failures in cultivation experienced by growers, as well as the reason
for their success when they placed the seeds about the base of the
mother plant.

However, a new method of cultivation which was gaining ground
in the horticultural world seemed not to substantiate the preceding
explanation. Instead of placing the seeds at the base of the mother
plant some gardeners sowed them in earthenware saucers contain-
ing various substrata, such as sawdust. As they frequently obtained
successful results they maintained that it could not be a question
of infection by fungi from the roots, and the explanation given by
Mons. Noél Bernard which so revolutionized the ideas of horticul-
turists seemed to them still less admissible, in view of the fact that
their trials were always fruitless whenever a kind of white growth,
some mold or fungus, invaded the sawdust amid the fine orchid
seeds sown there. This unscientific objection was in vain, for on
making sections of the embryos developed upon the sawdust it was
found that they were always regularly infected by the fungus, which
invariably entered in the same manner, by the micropyle (sus-
pensor), and invaded the cells, producing there tightly rolled balls
of threads. This irrefutable observation did not completely solve the
question, for whence came the fungus in this case? This is still an
unsettled point. The first hypothesis which occurs to one is that
the fungus is so abundant in the greenhouse that. it infects the saw-
dust naturally, like the mold in a cheese cellar, whose presence en-
ables the manufacturer to obtain excellent eames but whose ab-
sence brings him ruin. Perhaps there is a simpler explanation—
that the gardener, naturally of a clever and often furtive disposition,’
has placed in the substratum fragments of roots which have thus
infected the seeds with their fungi. The last explanation seems to
me not at all improbable, because at the conclusion of Bernard’s
investigation Mons. Denis, an orchid grower of Midi, France, actu-
ally employed this method and obtained good results. When horti-
culturists thus employ subterfuges to deceive and throw off the track
disinterested investigators who are trying to perfect their industry
they make a mistake, for it is to their best interest to seek the intelli-
gent aid of science, which can guide their work and be of the great-
est assitance to them. It too often happens that they conceal mys-
teriously some trick of the trade, the reason for which they do not
understand, although it brings them success and may even be the
foundation of their fortune. It is easily imagined that they pro-
tect their secret with jealous care, but unhappily secrets can not be
kept indefinitely.
ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. 355

One of the most skillful propagators of our country, Mons. Maron,
after the publication of Mons. Bernard’s investigations, said that he
succeeded as well with his own method as with that recommended by
the latter, this consisting in inoculating the soil with orchid fungi,
which he had learned how to separate from the roots and grow in
pure cultures. This statement does not seem to have great weight
when it is stated that on sending some orchid fungi to an inexpe-
rienced amateur, who had never germinated a single orchid, like
Mons. Magne, with whom I put Mons. Bernard in communication,
wonderful success was obtained. The intervention of science will
at least have had the advantage of rendering accessible to many a
process which previously had been successfully attempted by only
a few.

Besides, despite the mastery of their art obtained by certain
worthy breeders, they still have disappointments, and failures fre-
quently baffle the most experienced of them, fortune, on the contrary,
often reserving her smiles for unskilled novices. As long as the
reasons for the methods they employ are not understood this ought
not to be surprising. The production of seed is always meager, and,
above all, irregular. One capsule begins to develop; another not
until several weeks or even months afterwards. There are a host of
anomalies and failures in growth for which an explanation should be
sought. Moreover, there is a convincing example which proves that
the new methods of cultivation can be a powerful aid to the culti-
vator; this is the notable success obtained in the case of Phalaenopsis
Artemise. Seeds of this hybrid, obtained by crossing Phalaenopsis
amabilis, a variety of Rimstediana, with Phalaenopsis rosea, were
sent by Mons. Denis to Mons. Bernard before the capsule which con-
tained them had opened. The latter was able to remove the seeds
aseptically and place them in a sterilized tube, where no germina-
tion took place. Upon introducing a pure culture of a fungus,
Rhizoctonia mucoroides, there was obtained in the tube a splendid
germination, the seedlings developing with the utmost rapidity and
regularity, so that at the end of 18 months Mons. Bernard was able
to remove the seedling and send it to Mons. Denis, who replanted it,
and in 1908 (less than 3 years after sowing) the plant flowered.t It
was the first mature plant obtained by the new method, grown with
a rapidity that even the most skilled growers were unable to attain.
for Mons. Bernard’s seeding of 18 months had nearly the size of
those 3 years old which are figured by the Messrs. Veitch in their
excellent orchid manual.

So by extracting the fungi from the roots anyone can obtain as
good and even more rapid germination than that secured by the most

1 Orchid Review, vol. 17, p. 156,
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

expert growers. Besides, after knowing the reasons for the methods
employed one may travel farther in the path of progress and attempt
many germinations that no one has known how to secure until now.
Tt can thus be foreseen that in the near future the growing of orchids
will receive a new impetus while the number of successes in cultiva-
tion will continue to increase, and new hybrids will become more and
more numerous. At the present time there are signs in the horti-
cultural world, especially in England and Belgium, that all the recent
discoveries have been appreciated; we hear of an unexpected number
of new floral offerings which indicate that the daring of the growers
is increasing daily. The flowers that are today the queens of fashion
are the Odontoglossums. The creations obtained from the represent-
atives of this genus are multiplied every day and the types like the
Odontiodas (the result of a cross between an Odontoglossum and a
Cochlioda) are the glory of the exhibitions. One would never sus-
pect that a venerable science like botany, apparently adapted only
for the delight of collectors who have a pleasant fancy for gluing
dry plants on paper, could be capable of affording such assistance to
an industry so important as that of orchid growing. It could not be
anticipated that the biology of these plants was so extraordinary.
They are, in short, plants that are normally diseased, which not only
accommodate themselves to their parasites but are unable to exist
without them. It may nevertheless happen that the latter take the
offensive and then the plant is killed. The struggle must be con-
tinuous between the fungus and its host, and in certain cases it hap-
pens that the resistance of the orchid is so strong that the mycorhiza
is completely digested and nothing remains at the end of this
violently defensive act but some excreta or the débris of half
atrophied threads. The reaction of the host under normal condi-
tion is always severe, and the phagocytose, which functions in a
regular manner, limits every day the threatened progress of the para-
site. It may be easily understood that such a struggle affects the
whole structure of the plant and that the normal characters of
orchids depend upon it to a large extent. The evolution of the
attacking organisms is analogous to that of those attacked. The
fungi separated from a Vanda are not the same as those found in
an Odontoglossum; they are parasites of the same family, but dis-
tinct specifically. One is tempted to believe that for each orchid
there is a corresponding fungus specifically different from all others.
At present it appears that there is only a small number. Three
species clearly distinct have been described;? one which inhabits
the roots of Cypripediums, Cattleyas, and Laelias; another which is

1 Burgeff admits that in every orchid there is a different species of fungus (Orcheomyces).
Burgeff. Die Wurzelpilze der Orehideen, Jhre Kultur und ihr Leben in der Pflanze.
Jena, 1909.
ORCHIDS AND EVOLUTION—COSTANTIN. 357

associated with species of Phalaenopsis and Vanda; and a third
restricted to the Odontoglossums. These fungi, ordinarily parasites,
can be cultivated away from their usual host upon an artificial
medium. It is then found that their threads have the property of
rolling up upon themselves into a ball, so that under artificial con-
ditions they conduct themselves in the same manner as in the cells
of the host which they have invaded in the usual fashion. It seems
probable that here one has to do with a property of acquired
heredity which enables them to exist independently of the cause
which has produced them.

When a Phalaenopsis is inoculated with the fungus from a Cypri-
pedium, or an Odontoglossum with that of a Vanda, one may have,
according to the case, a disease which is often of an infectious char-
acter, or wholly negative results. Very often the foreign fungus pen-
etrates the seed, provokes the beginning of germination, then devel-
opment is arrested; afterwards a new infection is produced which is
this time fatal, and the plant dies. The parasite has regained its
formidable destructive character, which was evidently its primitive
condition. It may happen, on the contrary, that the fungus is de-
feated in the combat; it penetrates the seed, but is completely digested
and germination does not take place. There is finally another case
which is of special interest: This is when the parasite and the host
are adapted to each other, and a new association is formed. If, as
we have previously suggested, the orchid was partly created by the
fungus, there is every reason to believe that this change will modify
the germinative evolution, and abnormal types will be produced. In
fact, such monstrosities have been secured with a Cymbidium, and
more successfully with a Vanda. In the latter genus, in place of
having a plant with a simple stem and of symmetrical growth, there
was obtained a small body with two, three, four, or even nine
_branches. Mons. Bernard was able to grow some of these strange little
plants for several months. He even sent some of them to horticul-
turists in hope that they might know how to continue their growth
and bring them to flower. An unfortunate and vexatious accident
interrupted the attempt. The mistake of a workman caused the
destruction of the precious plants, and what might have been learned
from them is still a secret. Still, if the ideas which we have expressed
are correct, we do not hesitate to believe that if such a product had
been brought to maturity, it must have given the most unexpected
results. Horticulturists have known how to obtain extraordinary and
very interesting types by hybridizing species with one another; but
it is known that anomalies may be produced in the vegetable kingdom
otherwise than by crossings. Mons. Blaringhem has shown that vari-
ous forms of transmission, such as division, torsion, and compression,
can direct evolution along new paths, and create characters previously
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

unknown which are often inheritable. The experiments of Mons. Ber-
nard show us that by changing the fungi of orchids one may create
monstrosities; that is to say, in short, transform the orchid. It may
be that the change thus brought about will be so profound that the
creatures thus formed may be unmanageable; but if they can be
brought to flower and reproduced, in all probability there will be some
very curious creations. It can be seen that breeders still have a vast
field to exploit.

As a sequel to these remarks, some dodanie may be drawn, At
present too much attention is given to the study of hybrids. The
Mendelian laws, so long forgotten, and recently brought to light
again by the work of De Vries, Tschermak, Correns, and Bateson,
would lead one to believe that the key to the riddle of evolution had
been found. These laws, it must be stated, are applicable only to
very simple cases, such as that of two varieties which differ from each
other by one or a small number of characters. The characters of their
offspring are then subject to indisputable mathematical laws. They
do not seem applicable, at least at the present moment, to cases of
two parent species of an offspring, differing from each other by
numerous characters. If even these complex cases could be cleared
up and reconciled with Mendelian principles, the result would be a
theory that evolution takes place only in the ovule. Can we admit
that an exterior influence can never cause the appearance of new
characters? Upon this there can be no division of opinion. All that
has been set forth above with regard to the orchids pleads a contrary
case, which is in accordance with the theory set forth by Lamarck,
the famous disciple of Buffon.
THE MANUFACTURE OF NITRATES FROM THE ATMOS-
PHERE.!

By ERNEST KILBuURN Scort,
ALM ENSta Oc eg) MEL. Henn:

{With 3 plates. ]

Considering that it is only about 10 years ago that the manufac-
ture of nitrogenous products by electric power was proved to be
commercially possible, the progress has been remarkable. Indeed,
this metallurgical development of electric power promises to be even
more important than electric traction.

The two main sources of fixed nitrogen are sulphate of ammonia
from gas works, etc., and sodium nitrate from the country .of Chile.
Table I gives the sulphate of ammonia produced in this country in
the years 1906, 1909, and 1910. It will be noticed that the principal
increases between 1906 and 1910 are, from coke ovens, 115 per cent,
and from producer-gas plants, 50 per cent; the total increase being
at the rate of about 26 per cent.

TABLE I.—Sulphate of ammonia.

| 1906 1909 1910
|
Tons. Tons. Tons.
(Cid Qu Le ee ape cnmmooseDsoognerobEpe ae 157,160 | 164,276 167,820
Iron works 21, 284 20, 228 20, 139
Shale works 1 O34 57,048 59, 113

Coke ovens 43, 677 82, 886 92, 665
POUMUCKAPAS PIANUS2 tena 22. oa =/2- Sa aslo eee ees een epee geea teen eea ae 18,736 | 24,705 27, 850

emrmrermmmet eens 24 TTA) A ALO SLO BREN 8) 289,391 | 349,143 | 367,587

The regular exportation of nitrate of soda from Chile began in
1830, and, as will be seen from Table II, it has increased at an ex-
tremely rapid rate and is now about two and a half million tons per

annum.
TABLE II.—Heports of sodium nitrate from Chile.

| |
Sab bees | Tons per | ree Tons per
Years. deere | Years. annie
a 4 arth | |
|
TSG Ae ba gee eee 985 4iNCPOOSE 2426 13 FG BA, MAES ee 1,970, 000
DNSE TS aE ee OOOO I909! oo a. a a ele. as cin el See ee 2, 108, 600
ayes eames eee hens oh ke P22 SONG NAOT OSI Be Dae BALL a 2,308, 200
CUR Ad SR a eon me ane PODONOOOT LOND.) ios 2 oe laa a ees 2,420, 400
TT Rn ee ho beeen eee 1, 600,000
|

+ Reprinted by permission from Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, London, vol. 60,
No. 3104, May 17, 1912.

359
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Against these figures the output of calcium nitrate and calcium
cyanamide, which are two of the main products of the electric fixation
of nitrogen processes, seems small. The important thing to notice,
however, is that electrical processes are now on a sound educa
footing, ‘and very large extensions of plant have been recently made,
and are in hand.

Table III gives particulars of the installations for the manufac-
ture of calcium nitrate by the direct process of Prof. Birkeland and
Mr. Sam Eyde. It will be noticed that, although the first experi-
mental plant was started only nine years ago, already the company
controlling the Birkeland-Eyde patents have installations aggregat-
ing 200,000 horsepower at work, and probably by 1916 another
300,000 horsepower will be at work. All the installations mentioned
in Table III are in Norway, but installations will no doubt be erected
in other countries.

TABLE III.—IJnstallations of the Norwegian Hydroelectric Nitrogen Co.

Year. Horsepower. Name of installation.

TAC} hs AS ae a Sete crate 25 | Experimental plant at Frognerkilens.
TY OE Ea eS eee eee ee 160 | Experimental plant at Ankerlékken.
RR eee Nee ets eet ciuialalotulcicls\nwlota|s/otie\c cite n'e = « 660 | Arendal.

TR 2, SOS OES a ae eS 45,000 | First Notodden (Svaelgfos).

ETO) 2 ae Se Ae ase aia ee 15,000 | Second Notodden (Lienfos).

ee ee ee aire a onion m= mann 140,000 | First Rjukan installation.

DS). eae cet UN ee eee anaes 120,000 | Second Rjukan installation.

Tice em SRE re ator ais Sein Soleo meine cine 70,000 | Vamma.

TEU Sg Tk ES 2 oe ea 80,000 | Matre

a oe caw es | 70,000 | Tyin

The other electrically produced nitrogenous manure, calcium cy-
anamide, is made by a more indirect method invented by Dr. Franck
and Dr. Caro, and its manufacture is not confined to Norway.

Table IV gives the principal installations, and it is of interest to
note that, although the first one on a commercial scale was erected at
Piano d’Orto in Italy only 8 years ago, there are works in opera-
tion and being built which by the end of next year will be making
calcium cyanamide at the rate of over a quarter of a million tons per
annum.

The Nitrogen Fertilizers Co., which owns the Odda & Alby Works,
works under license from the North-Western Cyanamide Co., which
company controls this country, Norway and Sweden, Belgium, and
all the British colonies, protectorates, and dependencies, except Egypt
and Canada. The Odda factory is now being enlarged and at the
beginning of next year will be producing 73,000 tons per annum.

In the United States, the American Cyanamide Co. is about to erect
a works in Alabama to manufacture 24,000 tons per annum.

NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 361

BIRKELAND-EYDE FURNACE.

This furnace, invented by Prof. Birkeland and Mr. Sam Eyde,
of Norway, depends on the inter-
action of an alternating-current arc
in a constant magnetic field. The
furnace, as installed at Notodden,
consists of a circular sheet-steel
drum about 8 feet in diameter and 2
feet wide, lined with refractory fire-
brick, and having a disklike space
in the center 64 feet diameter and
14 inches wide. Air is supplied at
the center of the furnace by a Root’s
blower, whilst a channel round the
periphery of the disk space carries
off the gases and unoxidized air, as
shown in figure 1.

N
N
N
N
LAN
NY
N
Ny
N
IN

ZZ

Fia. 1.

TABLE I1V.—Installations for manufacture of calcium cyanamide by the Franck
and Caro process.

Output
Name of company. Place of installation. per annum
in tons
|
Nitrogen Fertilizers Co. (North-Western Cyanamide Co.).-..-.- Odda; Norway os. 15,000

ID Gio us- 2 Sees Be See er ee ee Alby, Sweden 32 cose 15,000
Societé Italiana de Prodotti Azotate.............-..-.2-.-..-- Piano d’Orto, Italy......--- 4,000
Societaé Italiana per il Carburo de Calcio. ...........----------- Terni, italy Reve eRU ERY va ert 15,000
Societ& Piemontese per il Carburo de Calcio..................- San Marcel, Italy..........- 3,000
Société Francaise pour les Produits Azotes.........--..------- Martigny, Switzerland... _-. 7,500

ING. o- se zeded 2 Doge ee eee Notre Dame de Briancon. - .| 7,500
PAaVERISCHORSiCKSTON \WOLKO oi. 50.2. = tececc-e- oe e- se eebsece Trostberg, Bavaria. -......--- 15,000
Ost-Deutscher Stickstoffcalf und Chemische Werke. .......-.-. Bromberg, Prussia........-- 2,500
Aho. (te (SUAS PONEEGI UE STC) gel IE eR ge Knapsack, Germany.....-.- 18,000
Societ& per l’Utilizzazione della Forze Idrauliche della Dal- | Selenico, Dalmatia.......__- 4,000

mazia.

Did. 222 Ae QRS BS IS ge Dugirat, near Almissa. -.--- 80, 000
sapanescouirocenuProducts Co. 0. ...-..----.s--s---eees-e ees Kinzei, near Osaka........-. | 4,000
MadbicnweyaAnannoe GO. U8i. Uses. T2Ch he Use seals. Nashville, Tennt 333 so setae 4,000

in. Eas A ee ee eae Niagara’ 2: 222). SS eee 12,000

Two electrodes, one of which is shown in figure 2, project into the
center of the furnace and are approached to within about one-third
on Pe as inch. They are copper

+t + —— oc <j tubes, 14 inches diame-
> x ter and five-eighths inch
Fl = £, eR —" thick, and have water

Renewable Tins 7) : 5
er ical Gall nselater circulation to keep them

Fig. 2.
cool.

Surrounding the points of the electrodes there is a magnetic field
of about 4,500 lines of force per square centimeter. Alternating cur-
rent at 5,000 volts and 50 periods per second is supplied to the elec-
trodes, and direct current flows around the coils to produce the mag-
netic field.
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

When an arc is struck between the electrodes it is at once deflected
in a direction perpendicular to the lines of force, and the necessity
of having alternating current applied to the electrodes will be ap-
preciated from the fact that with direct current the are would be
deflected to one side only. As each electrode is alternatively positive

and negative, the are is projected outward first to one side and then —

to the other, thus giving a disk of flame about 6 feet in diameter.
The speed at which the are moves outward is extremely rapid, and
as the formation of a new arc is practically instantaneous, it appears
to the eye as a sheet of flame.

When the extremities of the arc retire along the electrodes the arc
increases in length, its resistance also increasing, until the tension is
such that a new arc strikes between the points of the electrodes. The
resistance of this short arc being smaller, the tension of the electrodes
suddenly sinks to a point that will not sustain the long are, which is
thus extinguished. Another arc starts, and so the process goes on.

An inductive resistance is a very necessary piece of apparatus to
have in series with the arc, because its self-induction automatically
effects a displacement of phase according to the currents flowing,
thus enabling the arc to burn steadily.

The writer assisted Mr. Howles with some experiments in fixation
by nitrogen about 13 years ago, and it was then that the necessity of
having an induction coil in circuit was noted. Without it the are
could not be maintained steady, but with it the arc was quite steady.
The experiment was made at Messrs. Johnson and Phillips’s, Old
Charlton, and a transformer that happened to be handy was used for
the purpose.

It should be noted that any furnace working with alternating cur-
rent has necessarily a considerable phase difference. In other words,
the power factor is low, and therefore, in estimating the sizes of
dynamos and cables, due allowance has to be made. This, of course,
raises the cost of electric energy. For ordinary power supply a
power factor of 0.85 is quite usual, but with fixation of nitrogen fur-
naces the power factor is only about 0.6.

A curious feature of the arc flame is that it is not quite concentric.
When looked at through colored glasses the extremities of the are
appear like glowing spots upon the sides of the electrodes; on the
positive electrode they are small and fairly close together, whilst on
the negative electrode they are larger and farther apart. The reason
for these spots appears to be that the arcs solder themselves, so to
speak, to the electrodes, and the magnetic lines of forée make the
extremities of the arcs move along in leaps. For some reason not yet
explained, the extremities of the arc cling more closely to the negative
than to the positive electrode, and therefore the flame extends farther

SE
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 363

along the positive electrode than along the negative, as shown in

figure 3.

When the flame
is burning it emits
a loud noise, from
which the furnace
attendant can
judge of the num-
ber of arcs formed
per second. The
electrodes are
changed and re-
paired every 300
hours, and the fire-
proof lining every
fourth to sixth

Jnduchve
Resistance

YOG  @ :
5200 Wolrs

Ad

month.

The temperature of the flame is about 3,500° C., and the

temperature of the escaping gases is between 800° and 1,000°.

furnace.

g

IG

R'rUai y 0wwawWww >. J

SI). 'W

NS

SSS. GW; EF Fwy gg

SX WW

QQQYGH)NO

Eke,

SS

TO IY SALT TT TA

ee eee

S

SVG

Fig. 4,

reaches the are.

Each of the furnaces at Notodden takes 600 kilo-
watts, and the furnaces at the Rjukan works each
take 3,000 kilowatts.

SCHONHERR FURNACE.

This furnace was invented by Dr. Schonherr, of
the Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik of Germany.
As installed at Christiansand, it consists of a long
iron tube fixed vertically, through the center of
which an are 16 feet long is maintained. Alter-
nating current at 4,200 volts, 50 periods, is used,
and each furnace takes 600 horsepower. Air blown
through this tube with a whirling motion keeps the
arc in the center. The electrode at the bottom
consists of an iron rod which passes through a
copper water-cooled tube. The iron rod is pushed
upwards, as it burns away to ferric oxide, and fresh
rods are screwed on as required, so that the process
does not stop. At the top of the tube there is a
water cooler, and it is inside here that the are ends
by striking across from the center to the side of the
tube.

As wilk be seen from the arrows in figure 4, the
incoming air passes through annular tubes, on each
side of which there are the hot gases from the

The air is thus heated to about 500° C. before it

After passing through the arc, where some of it
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

is heated to about 3,000° C., it reaches the water cooler, where its
temperature is then suddenly reduced. At this point there is a rapid
mixing of the highly heated nitric oxide next to the are, with the
cooler air that is whirling past, and the gas becomes permanently
fixed. The nitric oxide and air leave the top of the cooler at about
1,200° C., and pass away to a gas flue, common to all the furnaces,
where the temperature is reduced to about 850° C.

The plant at Christiansand is entirely occupied in making sodium
nitrite for the production of aniline dyes, etc. Previously sodium
nitrite had been made by the reduction of Chile nitrate with lead,
but this method of production has now practically ceased.

The nitrite made from the nitrogen of the air is so satisfactory
and so cheap, compared with the old methods, that now practically the
whole supply of the world, valued at £160,000 ($800,000), is obtained
by electricity.

In order to produce it the temperature of the gases is not allowed
to fall below 300° C., and this keeps the nitric oxide about equal
to the nitrogen peroxide. This mixture behaves as if it were nitrogen
trioxide N,O,, and it is absorbed completely by being brought into
contact with sodium hydroxide according to the following formula—

NO+NO,+2NaQOH=H,0+2NaNO (sodium nitrite).
CALCIUM NITRATE.

As earried out at Notodden, the method of making calcium nitrate
is as follows: The nitric oxide gas and air pass from each furnace
into two fireproof-lined gas-collecting pipes, about 6 feet in diameter,
lined with fire brick. These pipes convey the gas to four steam
boilers, the heat given off by the gases being used to raise steam for
concentrating the products and for driving the air compressors for
pumping acids, soda, etc. The gases then go through tubes in the
evaporating tanks, after which the temperature is down to about
250° ©. The temperature is lowered still further, to 50° C., by
passing it through a number of aluminium tubes over which cold
water is flowing. The gas then enters the oxidation tanks, which are
large vertical iron cylinders, having acid-proof linings. Here it
continues to take up oxygen to form nitrogen peroxide, the per-
centages being now about 98 per cent air and 2 per cent nitrogen
peroxide.

The nitrogen peroxide is brought into contact with water to form
nitric acid, in two series of four towers. These towers are built of
granite and are filled with broken quartz, this substance and the
granite being chosen because they are not affected by acids. Each
tower measures 2 meters square by 10 meters high, and it has been
found that they will give an absorption of 3.3. kilograms of nitric
acid per cubic meter of space per 24 hours.
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 365

The liquid trickles down through the quartz, and meeting the
nitrogen peroxide gas, combines with it. The liquid moves from
tower to tower in the opposite direction to the gas. Thus the fresh
water enters at top of the fourth tower, it flows down through the
interstices between the pieces of quartz and falls into a granite tank.
From there it is pumped by compressed air to the top of the third
tower, down which it trickles into another tank, and from which it is
pumped to the top of the second tower, and so on.

When the liquid reaches the bottom of the first tower it contains
about 40 per cent nitric acid.

Recently some very remarkable results have been obtained by im-
proving the material with which these towers are filled. By using
special forms of earthenware instead of quartz, the towers can be
reduced jn size considerably, and as the cost of the towers is usually
about four times the cost of the filling material; this means much
cheaper towers.

The chemical equations are as follows:

In the electric furnace from 3,000° C. down to 1,000° C., nitric
oxide, a colorless gas, is formed—

N,+0,=2NO (nitric oxide).
In the oxidation chambers, etc., from 500° C. down to 50° C., the
red-brown gas nitrogen peroxide is formed—
2NO+0,=2NO, (nitrogen peroxide).
In the four acid absorption towers the nitrogen peroxide combines
with water to form nitric acid and nitrous acid—
2NO,+H,O=HNO+HNO, (nitrous acid).

As the nitrous acid is unstable in an aqueous solution it gives nitric
acid and nitric oxide—

3HNO,+H,O=HNO,+2NO (nitric oxide).

The nitric oxide then combines with more oxygen to form again
nitrogen peroxide, and the above equations are repeated—

2NO+0,=2NO, (nitrogen peroxide).

What is left of the nitrogen peroxide and nitric oxide gases pass
to the fifth tower, when they meet sodium hydroxide to form sodium
nitrite—

NO,+NO+2Na0H=H,0+2NaNO (sodium nitrite).

The nitric acid of 40 per cent solution is sprayed onto calcium
carbonate, and the carbon dioxide gas is driven off, leaving calcium
nitrate—

2HNO,+CaCO,=CO,+H,0-+Ca(NO,),.
Sanne

366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The solution is then pumped into solidification pans, under which
cold air is circulated to accelerate cooling, and the nitrate of lime
stiffens into a brittle, crystalline mass. This is broken up into lumps,
which pass to ball crushing mills, where it is reduced to a granular
state. The coarse powder is then raised by an elevator into a hopper,
from the bottom of which it falls into barrels which hold 2 hundred-
weight. These barrels are lined with paper to guard against damp.
The analysis of the commercial calcium nitrate, Norwegian saltpeter,
or nitrate of lime as it is variously cailed, is given in Table V.

TABLE V.

Element. Symbol. | Per cent. | Element. Symbol. | Per cent.
Calenmiomide sito... CaOle | 25. 83 || Magnesium oxide........-..-- MgO.... 0.41
INGTTOROT ce uege oe Pk IN Aero ey | 12.47 || Aluminium trioxide........... AljOz... 0. 71
WWALRE Soe a5 cere mrcreneien, whi 13 Jat Os l 23.83 |} Residue insoluble in hydro-

Carbon dioxide................ Cowes | 0.52 || chloric acid..i...-. 1.) seg050 0.51

With the Birkeland-Eyde process, 1 kilowatt-year gives 500 to
550 kilograms of nitric acid, or 853 to 938 kilograms of nitrate of
lime. The latter usually contains 13 per cent of nitrogen, which cor-
responds to 111 to 122 kilograms of combined nitrogen. It is
guaranteed to contain 12? per cent of nitrogen.

The best result at Notodden has been 900 kilograms of nitric acid
per kilowatt-year measured at the arc terminals and allowing for
100 per cent nitric acid.

The percentages of nitrogen and comparative prices of the various
artificial manures are about as given in Table VI.

TABLE VI.
3 i} uf SD ©

| Content Price

of per

| nitrogen. ton.
: Per cent.| £. 8. d.
Sim pPaperOremnmMOMia ATOM PASWOLES ooo ie fe oe eae wien ale aici wie © 4) mm efor meen ee 19..75)) 137) 20) 00
INNDEATOIONSOMAMLOMN CNG ene ors scc2 slo cee bee eel elee ee 15.50; 9 15 0
Nitrate Onlmermaceiby electricity ... 2... weep ene ee en = 3 12. 75. |.08 1 .k0na0
Calcium cyanamide made by electricity 18.00;}10 0 0

THEORY OF FIXATION.

The problem is to raise the temperature as quickly as possible to
over the igniting point of nitrogen and oxygen and then immediately
to cool the fixed gas and draw it off. The temperature of the burn-

ing nitrogen and oxygen flame is lower than the igniting point by.

about 200° C. There must be a “ hot-cold zone”—that is to say, a
zone in which at one part the temperature is enormously high, and
at another part the temperature is as low as possible.
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT, 367

As the electric arc gives in an easy manner the temperature above
ignition point it is principally used. Some experimenters contend,
however, that if by using a flame of carbon monoxide or a sprayed
oil flame of carbohydrates a temperature near that of the electric
are was reached, then the results would be equally satisfactory. They
point out that the ignition of nitrogen and oxygen takes places at
1,800° C., and as the temperature of the electric arc is well over
2,000° C., it is really much lighter than is necessary.

It is not at all certain, however, that the effect is merely due to
temperature. A more probable theory is that some of the oxygen is
first formed into ozone and that farther on in the arc the extra atom
of oxygen splits off, and being in a nascent condition readily com-
bines with the nitrogen. In this connection it is interesting to note
that Sir. J. J. Thompson has demonstrated that under certain con-
ditions N, does exist. Is it possible that O, and N, are first formed
and then the nascent atoms combine ?

It is known that nitric acid is formed on the windings of high-
tension alternators and this is apparently due to silent discharge at
normal temperature and pressure.

Mr. Cramp, whose investigations into this subject deserve to be
better known, says, in a communication to the writer, that he is quite
certain that ozone does enter into the problem, and that if the air
charged into the furnace had ozone mixed with it, there would be
an increased yield of fixed gas. A very small amount of ozone is
likely to have a considerable effect; 12 parts in 1,000,000 is a high
percentage. In the Central London Railway tube the percentage is
only 1 part in 1,000,000, and yet the ozone is so powerful that its
characteristic odor is quite noticeable.

The photograph (pl. 1) shows that with alternating current the
arc concentrates on one side, and the fact that ozone is a conductor
may be partly or wholly responsible for this.

On several occasions it has been suggested that the yield would
be higher if nitrogen and oxygen were passed through the furnace
in combining proportions instead of in proportions in which they
exist in air. Muthman says, however, that the proper proportions
are one of nitrogen to two of oxygen, and his explanation is that as
NO, is easiest to form it is, therefore, formed first.

Several methods of fixing nitrogen have been proposed which do
not depend on electric power. The principal one is due to Prof.
Haber, and it is of special interest just now, because the powerful
German company, the Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik, is experi-
menting with it.

The gases nitrogen and hydrogen in the proportions for forming
into ammonia are brought together under a pressure of 175 atmos-
pheres, and they are said to combine in the presence of a catalyser,
such as osmium or uranium.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,
THE RJUKANFOS INSTALLATION.

The Rjukan installation is situated in Vestfjorddalen, East Tele-
marken. The saltpeter factories are situated at Saaheim and the
hydroelectric power plant on the Maane River, half a kilometer
away. ‘The power installation, utilizes part of the well-known
“ Rjukanfos,” and has a working head of some 274 meters and a dis-
charge of water of 47 cubic meters per second. The total electrical
energy in the power station is about 140,000 horsepower, divided into
10 units, each of 14,450 horsepower. Each unit is, however, capable
of producing 16,500 horsepower, and they are thus the largest hydro-
electric units which have yet been constructed. The generators give
a pressure of 10,000 volts, and the total energy is transferred to the
nitrate of lime factory through a transmission line, for the most part
made of bare aluminium conductors.

In the factory some of the furnaces are of the Schonherr construc-
tion (of the Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik), each of 1,000 kilo-
watts. They are 23 feet long and require 40,000 cubic feet of air per
hour. The other furnaces are of Birkeland-Eyde’s construction, each
of 3,000 kilowatts. (See pl. 2.)

The gases from the various furnaces have a temperature of about
800° C. when leaving, and they are led through brick-lined iron
pipes to the coolers, which are mounted in a separate house. From
there the gas goes to the absorption towers. These towers are ar-
ranged on the same system as at Notodden, namely, acid absorption
for the greater part of the gases and alkali ones for the rest.

The annual production will amount to 70,000 tons of nitrate of
lime and 8,000 tons of nitrite. It will be exported in wooden kegs,
exactly as at Notodden.

Regarding the question of the type of furnace, Mr. Eyde wrote on
February 10 last, saying:

The results now at hand from the trial management are not sufficient to
entitle us to judge which of the two systems—the Badische or the Birkeland-
Hyde system—is the more profitable one. For the present it may be declared
that the proceeds by both systems very likely will turn out to be approximately
the same. As you will note, however, from the above-mentioned figures, the
Birkeland-Eyde furnaces may be constructed for a considerably greater energy
than the other type.

A second power plant is now under construction at Rjukan, intended for the
installation of some 120,000 horsepower, which will likewise be used for the
manufacture of nitrate of lime.

Our company is further constructing a third power installation, Vamma, on
the Glommen River, by which will be produced 70,000 horsepower, of which
50,000 horsepower will be utilized for the manufacture of nitrate of lime. In-

cluding the factory at Notodden, we will thus in a short time utilize in all
370,000 horsepower for the manufacture of nitrate of lime.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Scott. PLATE 1.

Arc FLAME SHOWING CONCENTRATION ON ONE ELECTRODE WHEN WORKING WITH
ALTERNATE CURRENT.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Scott. PLATE 2.

By

FiG. 1.—RJUKAN SALTPETER FACTORY.
View of furnace room showing some of the Schonherr furnaces.

FiG. 2.—RJUKAN SALTPETER FACTORY.
View of furnace room showing twelve of the Birkeland-Eyde furnaces.
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 869

It would appear that the Birkeland-Eyde furnace is preferred to
the Schonherr, because it is more compact and cheaper to build. The
Schonherr furnace has to be built very high in order to increase its
output, and this introduces constructional difficulties; also the diffi-
culty of keeping the arc from striking into the side of the tube.

The present plant consists of 10 generator turbines of 14,450 horse-
power each, 5 of which were constructed by J. M. Voith, of Heiden-
heim, 5 by Escher Wyss & Co., of Zurich, and 1 exciter turbine of
1,000 horsepower by Kriierner Brug, of Christiania. The 3-phase
electrical generators coupled to the Voith turbines were made by
the Allminna Svenska, of Visteras, Sweden, and those driven by
the Escher Wyss turbines were supplied by Brown, Boveri & Co., of
Baden. The whole of the switchboard equipment was installed by
the Westinghouse Co.

The turbines are fed by individual pipe lines of 1,250 millimeters
inside diameter at the top end and 1,000 millimeters inside diameter
at the bottom end. The length of each pipe is 720 meters (2,360 feet) ;
the upper 300 meters consist of riveted pipes. and the longer lower
part for higher pressure consists of welded pipes. The riveted
pipes were supplied by Frederikstad’s mek. Verksted, Frederikstad,
Norway, and the welded pipes by Actiengesellschaft Ferrum, Zawod-
zie near Kattowitz, Germany. The supply and laying out of all of
the pressure pipe lines was done under the superintendence and on
the responsibility of J. M. Voith.

Each turbine is designed to work with a net head of 274 meters,
and a normal output of 13,000 horsepower, when running at a speed
of 250 revolutions per minute. The output may be increased to
14,450 horsepower.

The main sluice valve of 1,000 millimeters is fitted on a taper con-
necting pipe and the valve is operated by hydraulic pressure by means
of a cylinder with piston and a distributing valve. The piston rod
carries a relay which connects it to the valve, thus preventing the
latter opening or closing too quickly and insuring perfect safety.
The distributing piston is designed and dimensioned to allow the
valve being opened or closed under full pressure. This valve is
provided, however, with a by-pass valve 150 millimeters inside
diameter.

The turbines are provided with twin Pelton wheels, each of which
is driven by two nozzles. In the Escher Wyss turbine the lower jet
does not strike the buckets until the latter have cleared the upper
jet. Each of the runner wheels, which are mounted 1,800 millimeters
apart on a horizontal steel shaft, consists of a separate hub of cast
steel, and on the circumference of each 22 cast-steel buckets are
fastened. The buckets are held by means of two rings, which pro-

44862°—sm 1918——24
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

vide that there shall not be any stress on the bolts, and yet prevent
the buckets getting loose.

Bearings.—The turbine shaft, which is of Siemens Martin steel,
is supported by two ring-lubricated bearings of 380 millimeters diam-
eter, and its diameter is increased to 470 and 480 millimeters where the
runner wheels are mounted. A forged-on flange coupling transmits
the whole power of the turbine to the generator shaft. In addition to
lubricating rings, each bearing is provided with a separate pump for
the circulation of the oil, and this pump is driven by the turbine
shaft. It draws the warm oil from the bearings, passes it through a
coil situated in the discharge pit of the turbine, and then pumps the
oil through a filter to the main shaft again. This device greatly in-
ereases the safe running. The bearings have to withstand the weight
of the shaft and runners, and also the thrust due to the water jets.
They are supported by a strong frame, which is grouted into the
foundations and held fast by anchor bolts.

Casing.—On the same side as the distributing pipe there is a
strong frontal iron plate, to which the inlet bend and distributing
piping are fastened. The upper half of the casing is made of wrought
iron 10 millimeters thick, in two parts bolted to the foundation
frame and to the frontal plate at the center line. When the run-
ner wheel has to be taken out for repairs the upper part of the
casing is lifted off. At the side of the casing where the shaft comes
through it, deflector rings and water-splash guards prevent any
water escaping from the casing. For the purpose of inspecting the
buckets and nozzles a pit is provided in the foundations by means
of which it is possible to descend into the turbine chamber for that
purpose.

The turbine-chamber walls are covered with iron plates from the
foundation frame up to the ceiling of the tailrace, with a view to
protect them from erosion as well as to prevent any leakages in
the air ducts between the turbines.

Nozzles.—The largest diameter of the water jet when the nozzle
is fully opened is about 150 millimeters. In order to reduce the regu-
lating power the needle rod is provided with a balancing piston
acting in opposite direction to two buffer springs. The latter have,
the tendency to close the needle. The power resulting from the
closing energy of the needle and springs and the opening energy of
the piston is so calculated that the needle is always balanced, no
matter what the opening is. The turbine is regulated by simulta-
neously adjusting the four nozzles, which are connected to each other
by means of rods and levers. <A rod and lever connects the regu-
lating shaft to the main shaft of the universal oil-pressure governor.

Guarantees.—For the speed governor and pressure regulator, as
well as for the efficiency of the turbines, the following guarantees

——
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 371

were given. The turbines were designed to develop a maximum of
14,450 horsepower when working with a net head of 274 meters and
running at 250 revolutions per minute. The efficiency was to be 76
per cent when the quantity of water used was 5,200 liters per second.
When running under the same conditions of speed and pressure and
developing normally 13,000 horsepower, the efficiency was to be 78
per cent and the water used 4,650 liters per second. When load was
suddenly thrown off to the extent of 25, 50, and 100 per cent, the
variations of speed were to be limited to 3.5 per cent, 7 per cent, and
17 per cent above normal and the maximum increase of pressure in
the pipe line was not to exceed 15 per cent.

All these guarantees were easily maintained. In May, 1911, the
pipe lines were filled and the turbine started for the first time. A
number of tests were then carried out, and about three months later
the definite taking-over tests of all the turbines were made by Mr.
Geheimrat Reichel, professor of the Charlottenburg Technical School
of Berlin. The output of the turbines was measured by electrical
means; the quantity of water used was measured by the “ Schirm
methode” in the tailrace. The highest efliciency that. was attained
was 82.6 per cent, with an effective turbine output of 11,000 horse-
power. With nozzles fully opened the maximum effective horse-
power of the turbines was about 16,000.

The maximum increase of speed was 15 per cent, whilst the in-
crease of pressure above static head did not exceed 10 per cent.

The five Escher Wyss turbines are each coupled to 3-phase gen-
erators, made by Brown, Boveri & Co., of Baden.

At a power factor of 0.6 each machine gives 17,000 kva. at 11,000
volts, 50 periods per second. One of the machines gives the whole
of the 17,000 kva.

Four of the units are of the double generator type, with a shaft
common to the two. The two armatures are separated by a fireproof
partition, so that if a coil of one should be burnt out the coils on the
other machine are not affected.

Allowing for windage and friction, the guaranteed efficiency is
94.8 per cent for the double generator and 95.3 per cent for the single
generator. This is at full load and with a power factor of 0.6.

The voltage difference from full load to no load and vice versa is
1,400 volts. This may be necessary by the conditions of working the
furnaces, as they are very subject to sudden changes.

The total weight of one generator is 205,000 kilograms (200 tons).
Ninety-two thousand kilograms go to the rotating field and shaft.
The armature weighs about 90,000 kilograms.

The armature stampings are held in position in the cast-iron
armature ring by vee grooves. Cast-iron rings clamp the stampings
at the ends and these rings extend to bottom of slots. The outside
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

diameter of the armature is 6 meters and the inside diameter is 4.4
meters. The radial depth of the laminated structure is 21.5 centi-
meters. To permit of overhaul and repair the armature is divided
on its horizontal diameter.

The magnet wheel has a cast-steel hub and arms, and the periphery
of the wheel is made up of solid forged steel rings. To these rings
cast-steel poles are fixed, the ends of the poles being laminated. The
poles are held by dovetails and cotters.

The field poles are wound with bare annealed copper on edge and
all the pole windings are in series.

The slip rings are of cast steel and carbon brushes are used. The
exciter is direct coupled and gives 130 kilowatts at 220 volts.

Every rotor was tested for mechanical strength by being rotated at
1.8 times the normal speed for half an hour; that is, at 450 revolu-
tions per minute.

The bearings are suppled with oil under pressure and the oil is
cooled by water coils.

The other five turbines supplied by J. M. Voith are very similar
to the above, with double-runner wheels and two nozzles to each
runner. At the official tests all the guarantees were exceeded.
Coupled to each of the Voith turbines is a double 8,400 kva.,
11,000 volts, 50-cycle, three-phase generators made by the Allmiénna
Svenska Co. Each consists of two seperate armatures and two re-
volving fields on a common shaft running on two bearings. By
reason of the highly inductive load on the generators, the PF is
only 0.6, but with PF=unity, each machine would develop up to an
individual capacity of 23,000 electrical horsepower. Each_ double
generator weighs 250 tons.

Figures 1 and 2, plate 3, are from photographs of some of the plant
used in the Rjukanfos power house.

PAULING FURNACE.

This furnace was invented by Mr. H. Pauling, of Gelsenkirchen,
Westphalia, and he took the idea from the well-known horn-break
lightning arrester. As installed at Gelsenkirchen and Innsbruck it
consists of two hollow iron electrodes, arranged to form a vee, which
at the lowest point is about 4 centimeters across, as shown in figure 5,
At this point there are two lighting knives, which can be ap-
proached to within a few millimeters and are readily adjustable.
The arc strikes across and runs up the diverging electrodes by rea-
son of the natural convection currents, and the repelling action of
its own magnetic field, but principally because of a blast of heated
air from an air-duct immediately below. The are diverges as it
follows the shape of the electrodes, and it attains a length of about
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Scott PLATE 3.

FIG. 1.—RJUKAN POWER HOUSE.

Fifteen thousand horsepower, Voith double turbine, running at 250 revolutions per minute.

bs

Fig. 2.—RJUKAN POWER HOUSE.

One of the 8,400 Kva, three-phase alternators made by the Allmiinna Svenska Electric Co.
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE——SCOTT, 373

a yard. At each half-period of the alternating current a fresh arc
forms, so that the result is the equivalent of a triangular sheet of
flame.

An important feature is that the wall which divides the two parts
of the furnace is hollow, and gas and air which has been through the
furnace previously and been cooled is blown through this central
passage. As will be no-
ticed from figure 5, this Gas sAirQuriet Gas ¢ Air Ovtler
cool gas and air strikes into
the top of the arc flame,
and it serves to cool the
gases which have just been
formed. The two arcs are
in series, and the furnaces
work in sets of three—one
to each phase. Each fur-
nace, therefore, receives
single-phase current at
6,000 volts, 50 periods per
second.

At Gelsenkirchen there are
24 such furnaces, each taking
400 kilowatts at 4,000 volts.

The ares are started by
means of copper starting knives, which can be approached to within
a few millimeters at the bottom, when the two horns come together.
When the arc has been started, these starting knives are withdrawn,
and the larger space between the electrodes is then sufficient to let
the hot air from the tuyére pass through freely. The starting knives
last 20 hours, whereas the main electrodes, which are of steel and
water cooled, last 200 hours.

The works of La Nitrogéne Cie, at La Roche-de-Rame, Hautes
Alpes, France, have nine Pauling horn-arrester furnaces of 600 horse-
power each in operation, and nine more, of 1,000 horsepower each, are
being added.

The general layout of the plant is shown in figure 6, and it will
be noted that the furnaces are arranged in sets of three—one furnace
to each phase.

The fresh air for the furnaces is supplied by a 250-horsepower
turbo-compressor, running at 3,000 revolutions, and before it gets
to the furnace tuyéres it passes through a preheater. The air travels
through the furnace at 1,200 feet per second.

When the gases come from the furnaces their temperature is about
1,000° C., and the nitric-oxide content 1.15 to 1.5 per cent. They
first pass through the preheater, and give up some of their heat to
the fresh air going to the furnaces.

Fig. 5.
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The gases then pass through the two cooling towers, which are
outside the furnace house. Each of these towers is 16 feet in diame-
ter and 40 feet high, and filled with fire brick. When the bricks of
one tower have become hot the gases are switched over to the other
tower. Fresh air is then drawn through the heated tower by means
of the chimney (85 feet high), and the brickwork in it is thus cooled.

The gases are sucked out of the cooling tower by a 15-horsepower
fan and forced into the oxidation tower, which is built of reinforced
concrete and measures 33 feet diameter and 75 feet high. Here, the
temperature having fallen to 600° C., oxidation to NO, goes on
rapidly. .

From the oxidation tower there are two pipe lines, and one takes

some fixed gas and air back to

“* the furnaces, where it is passed
through the central passage
$ofur and comes in contact with the
freshly fixed nitrogen at the
_y. top of the ares. In this way

A yr oem Prehestler

Cam bresto Za 7
!

win I Sala te > the fresh gas is cooled without
as being diluted.
oa i, fer gare Sect A second pipe line, of alumi-
' ¢ nium, takes the remainder of
er li re — — Comer — - > the gases to the absorption
__.y pAbsorbrion Towers : z

towers, each of which con-
1 tains 250 tons of stoneware
un _. packings. The gases pass from
GB ‘ 1 to 5, whilst the water, grad-
ually accumulating more and
Fig. 6.—THE LAY-OUT OF THE WORKS BY LA NITROGENE A °

cin, FRANCE. more acid, flows in the oppo-
site direction, namely, 5 to 1.
Montejus operated by compressed air raise the solution to the top of

the different towers.

The concentration of acid at bottom of No. 5 tower is about 5°
Beaume; at bottom of No. 4 it is 8°; at bottom of No. 3 it is 15°;
at bottom of No. 2 it is 25°; and at bottom of No. 1 it is 35°, which
corresponds to about 40 per cent of HNO,

The gases from No. 5 absorption tower still contain a small amount
of NO and NO,. They are passed through an acid filter, in which
the last traces of acid are condensed, and then pass to the nitrite
towers. These contain sodium-carbonate solution, and the gases
react with it to form sodium nitrite, having a concentration of 20
per cent. This is submitted to evaporation, the hot furnace gases
being used for the purpose, and white sodium-nitrite crystals are
obtained containing 95 per cent of nitrite and 3 per cent of nitrate.

The nitric acid goes to the acid concentrators, in which it passes
through a series of porcelain and fused quartz vessels arranged in

YGOMLG

weer eK ee ewe ew we
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 375

stairway fashion. The acid is also heated by direct contact with hot
gases which come from the furnace. These gases are thus charged
with water and nitric-acid vapor.

To condense the acid the gases are passed through a cooling coil
of stoneware, which offers a large cooling surface. The remainder
of the gases then pass to the oxidation tower and mix with those
coming from the furnace.

The acid obtained by the process is 36° Beaume and contains 50
per cent HNO,. The concentration can not go beyond 60 per cent
by this process, because the vapor produced has a concentration
which increases with the concentration of the solution, and for 66
per cent the vapor produced has exactly the composition of the
liquid.

To obtain higher concentration other processes must be resorted
to, and as high as 98 per cent can be obtained.

Some idea of the efficiency of the plant may be obtained from
the fact that Mr. Pauling guarantees 60 grams of 100 per cent HNO,
per kilowatt-hour of electrical energy, measured at the entrance of
the electric transmission line into the factory; and also that the
electrochemical plant proper will cost about 120 franes (£5) per
kilowatt.

The Southern Electro-Chemical Co., of Nitrolee, S. C., in the
United States, has a 4,000-horsepower plant on the Pauling system
for manufacture of calcium nitrate. Electric energy is generated in
two water-power plants at Great Forks and Rocky Creek.

CALCIUM CYANAMIDE.

The discovery of calcium cyanamide came about as the result of a
research by Dr. Franck and Dr. Caro, who were following on the
lines of some previous work of Playfair and Bunsen. Their imme-
diate object was to make cyanide of potassium for the recovery of
gold from tailings, and they incidentally found that barium carbide
absorbed nitrogen to form barium cyanamide. By using calcium
carbide they obtained a similar reaction, according to the formula—

CaC,+2N=CaCN,+C

It was then found that by treating calcium cyanamide with hot

water it gave off ammonia according to the equation—
CaCN,+3H,O=CaCo,+2(NH,),
and this gave rise to the idea of using it as a manure.

As carried out at the Odda Works the calcium carbide broken into
lumps is delivered to crushing machines, from which it passes to
mills in which it is ground fine, the whole of these operations being
effected automatically in an air-tight plant so as to prevent acetylene
gas being given off. It is of interest to note that the glowing mass
from the calcium carbide furnace can not be used straight away.
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The powder is then filled into electric furnaces, of which, in the
first installation at Odda, there are 196, each holding 300 kg.

Figure 7 is a rough sketch of the furnace, and it will be noticed
that down the center there is a cardboard tube to provide a space
for the carbon pencil. After the carbide has been filled in the carbon
pencil is fixed in position and the lid fastened down and made air-
tight.

Alternating current is now switched on and the temperature is
raised to 800° to 1,000° C. The cardboard tube and certain card-
board partitions which had been placed in the furnace when the
calcium carbide was run in are burnt up, and they leave spaces which
allow the nitrogen gas, which is admitted under pressure, to circulate

freely. Electric current is

Carkan pencil kept on for 25 hours, and at

+ the end of 35 hours all the

nitrogen has been absorbed, as
shown by the meter.

At Odda this nitrogen is
made by the Linde distillation

Seba process, but in one of the
French factories the Claude
process is used.

carbon pee’! "The 196 furnaces make
about 30 tons of calcium cyan-
‘evry amide, containing 18 per cent
of nitrogen, per day of 24
forrepebe) |) OUTS,
rast When it is turned out of the
furnace the cyanamide looks
like black clinker. After be-
ing broken up it is fed into

Fig. 7.—ELEcTRIC FURNACE FOR MAKING CALCIUM a crashey andl thes ith fo

on | oes 4 apeamel ‘ roulette mills, where it is
ground up fine for market.

It is then packed in a paper-lined bag, which is in a jute bag. For
tropical countries there are two outer jute bags.

Recently improvements have been introduced at the Odda Works
whereby, with the same amount of power and labor, the output has
been increased from 12,000 tons to 15,000 tons per annum.

The furnaces are now being made to hold 450 kg., instead of
300 kg. Another improvement is that the cyanamide is treated with
enough atomized water to reduce free carbide to less than one-half
of 1 per cent.

From the point of view of engineers in this country, the installa-
tion of A. G. Stickstoffdunger at Knapsack in Germany (see Table

Made To
Aold 300hy

Meachion
beguit af
te bolom

6559
AAANRED AAS SAESY EONAR DAA LYALL AUDA NENTREERN, MINT S79

Nitrogen pie :
—>y
enters here
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT, 377

IV) is perhaps the most interesting. Gas is generated from cheap
brown coal and used in gas engines to generate the electric current.

Although calcium cyanamide is mostly employed as a manure, it
has other uses. For example, by treating with superheated steam
very pure sulphate of ammonia is obtained. Also ammonium nitrate
and dicyandiamide are made from it.

EXPLOSIVES.

Although manures form the main outlet for the products of these
electric fixation of nitrogen processes, there are other important uses.

At the Notodden saltpeter factory ammonium nitrate is made by
bringing the nitric acid into contact with ammonia liquor from our
English gas works. The ammonia nitrate crystallizes out, and when
dry it contains 35 per cent of nitrogen, and it sells in this country at
about £27 a ton. It is the principal constituent of many of the ex-
plosives for mines.

Dicyandiamide, C,N,H,, which is made by treating calcium cyana-
mide with water, when it crystallizes into broad needles or prisms
is being used for mixing with explosives. It contains 66 per cent of
inert nitrogen, and is used for lowering the temperature of the ex-
plosion.

This is of importance, because ordnance powders rapidly destroy
rifling in guns on account of the high temperature. The importance
of this is shown by the statement made publicly in 1905 that the 12-
inch gun Mark VIII used on 15 British battleships could not stand
more than 50 rounds full charge.

Nitric acid is, of course, the main constituent of guncotton, dyna-
mite, and smokeless powders, etc., and at the present time we are
mainly dependent on over-seas supplies of raw material from which
to make the acid. In case of war we should undoubtedly be in a very
serious position, for whereas most continental countries have plants
for the fixation of nitrogen from the air, this country does not make
a single ounce.

Tt will be remembered that at the time of the Napoleonic wars the
French had difficulty in obtaining saltpeter with which to make pow-
der; it behooves us, therefore, not to be caught in the same predica-
ment. A few rounds from a broadside of modern guns blows away
into the air as much nitrogen as was used during the whole course
of a war of the last century. The necessity of having factories where
explosives can be made to any amount, and quite independently of
raw materials from overseas, is therefore obvious. Even if the prod-
uct could not at first compete in price with existing supplies, the fact
that it was a necessary addition to our national assurance against war
~~

378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

would justify the establishment of a works to fix the nitrogen of
the air.

Various Government factories for the supply of munitions of war
do not pay, from a strictly competitive point of view, yet everyone
recognizes that they must be kept up.

COST OF POWER.

It will be of interest to consider briefly what are the prospects as
regards the manufacture of nitrogenous products in this country.
The problem is, of course, mainly one of cheap power, but to make
it worth while there must also be a large supply because some of
the furnaces take 1,000 kilowatts and upward.

Tn Scotland there are several water powers waiting to be harnessed,
and one has been investigated which will give 10,000 kilowatts for
a capital expenditure in hydraulic works and electrical plant of
£200,000, or £20 per kilowatt installed. It is estimated that electrical
energy could be turned out for 35s. per kilowatt-year, after allowing
10 per cent for interest and depreciation. The power is capable of
extension.

In Norway electric energy is actually sold at about 20s. a kilowatt-

year, oe =0.0275 per kilowatt-hour, from which it would ap-

pear that the cost of installation is about £10 per kilowatt of plant,
and a considerably lower rate than 10 per cent is allowed for inter-
est and depreciation. Of course the carriage of the products from
Norway to this country is an item, but it would not be much more
than the carriage from Scotland to the south of England.

We know that very large steam-power stations with turbo-genera-
tors can be built for about £10 a kilowatt of plant, because the last
extensions at Manchester cost only £12 per kilowatt, as shown by
Mr. Pearce’s (the chief engineer) figures.

Per kw.

installed.

Generating machinery, turbine condenser, alternator, ete__-----------~- £3. 75
Boilers, economizers, superheaters, steam pipes, coal and ash conveyors,

RATIMSION RS etCrnee tet EN i ido Sn he 2. 20

Switch gear for generators and feeders_-__ Nh Silsigsag  a wee Sr 33)

Buildings with accessories... -_----. EPR ERR I Enea 5. 05

12. 05

In “ Heavy Electrical Engineering,” Mr. H. M. Hobart, after care-
fully considering all the details of a typical steam-power station,
comes to the conclusion that “The complete cost of a station well
designed on modern lines for an output of over 100,000,000 kilowatt-
hours per year need not exceed £10 per kilowatt.” With steam turbo-
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 879

generating units of 25,000 kilowatts, which are now being made,
there is no reason why the cost per kilowatt should not come down
as low as for Norwegian hydroelectric plants. Further, if instead
of burning the coal in boilers it is made into gas and by-products
are recovered, it seems likely that we shall be able to generate
electricity as cheaply as the average for Norway.

To show what can be done by a producer-gas power plant, the
following estimate by Mr. Chorlton, of Messrs. Mather & Platt, is
of interest :

Producer-gas engine power station for 3,000 brake horsepower.

Capital costs:
Four 1,000 brake horsepower gas engines complete; coupled to four
electric generators starting air compressor; gas, air, water, and

Gxhalst pipes) and water pumps_.- 2-22 eae
Buildings, engine foundations, crane, and silencer_______________- 2, 770
PPeHUAbMNeabDOMerS. 22 be ee LD MIN 3 1, 600
Sena TOMaMas Witting a ea ee eae
MEnemeainieang. cooling tower... eee 400

AUPE MMCOSG Soa IE NES Ea eae

This is equal to £7.03 per brake horsepower, or £10.545 per kilowatt.
Running costs, on the basis of 800 twenty-four-hour working days per
annum:

STMEAISECORANICG StOTeS. 220 2) | eo eae 650
Repairs, rates and taxes, maintenance, insurance, etec., at 0.01d.
per brake horsepower hour____---~- Pes mepieenre te Sle) 2 ee 900
Wages—Three shifts of one man at 40s. 585
Mnarecshitts of One man at 35s; (/ol) 77), ee
interes: ang depreciation at 10 per cent... 4...) eee 2, 812
Rotlprunnine cost per annum... 2 ee ee eee
Assuming the interest and depreciation to be only 6} per cent, the total
RIATOICCOS GIS el AO he ae hE ee 3, 892
The capital cost of a Mond producer plant capable of giving gas for
POCA NOrsepower ISi2.0 020 Ee 13, 200
The running cost of a Mond producer-gas plant is:
PREM TONS TOI SN Ae leet oe he sed ee bs Ueens ye Ue Nil.
SPOS TOs GU LC KATI ES es Lk ee a ea EB Nil.
Moo tons of waste slack, at.4s: per ton. 25». see 300
600 tons of washed slack, at 8s. per ton____-________-_ BON 240
Maintenance, including rates, taxes, labor (including ne ah steam
power, repairs, stores, etc., at 2s. 6d. per ton_________-_-_---------- 1, 500
SulIpimmeracia.: atooos. per tome! iii et ee ie fe re 665

Interest and depreciation, at 10 per cent_____)___..§ -__-----4+-+.--- 1,820

PINS VeOSt Aer) ARIE an eels aa ee eo ae 8 ea 4, 025
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

The by-products would sell for—
AMMONIS, SUIPNATC. At 212 DET TO ee eee eee eens a. ean eee
Tar, Los: per TOMS “ee BN Le BE TE Atte Mi” esl UY) HU ISS eae 180
Value of gas not included.

Credit) pervanmiam seh ye ee Og by Bhai aia. Waa Oui, 4, 740

Leaving a net profit of £4,740 less £4,025=£715 per annum.

The net cost of energy, assuming interest and depreciation on station at 10
per cent, is £4,947 less £715=—£4,232.

This is equal to 0.047 per brake horsepower hour, or 0.070 per kilowatt-hour.

The net cost of energy, assuming interest and depreciation on station at 64
per cent, is £8,892 less £715=£3,177.

This is equal to 0.0385 per brake horsepower bour, or 0.052 per kilowatt-hour.

This 0.052 is for 300 days of 24 hours, but for the full number of
hours in a year it becomes 0.043d. per kilowatt-hour, or 31s. per
kilowatt-year. If this can be done with 1,000-horsepower gas en-
gines, then there is considerable hope for the future when the internal
combustion prime mover is made in as large sizes and as cheaply
as steam turbines.

At the present moment, so far as fuel power stations are concerned,
the position appears to be as follows:

For large prime movers of, say, 6,000 kilowatts and over the steam
turbine is in an unassailable position. It is true that the large
gas engine has been made in units of several thousand horsepower,
but on account of its slow speed and its cycle of operations the size
for a given power is very large as compared with a steam turbine.
Its weight and price are greater, and the cost of foundations and
housing accommodation very much greater.

The gas turbine, or the gas plus steam turbine, would solve the
space difficulty, but although much has been written on the theory,
and some work has been done experimentally, this form of prime
mover is still in the air.

As regards the production of steam and of gas for the above-
mentioned prime movers, it must be admitted that the method of
burning coal on fire grates is less efficient than making gas from the
coal and recovering the ammonia, ete. Also it is necessary to admit
that there are mechanical limitations to the sizes of ordinary steam
boilers as at present constructed.

On the other hand, gas producer and engine plants can not yet be
considered altogether satisfactory, because the gas is so variable in
quality. When steam is generated there is no doubt about the
product.

With gas, on the other hand, there is no absolute certainty as to
what its quality will be. It depends on the coal, on the condition of
the apparatus, on the attention given by the workmen. If attempts
are made to increase the yield of the ammonia, then the gas is likely
to be poor, and if the gas is of good quality, then the by-products
are apt to fall off.
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 381

A slight change in the kind of coal, and the whole of.the gas appa-
ratus has to be readjusted, and in the meantime the gas engines may
have dropped to half power. On the other hand, with a steam boiler
a change in the quality of the coal makes very little difference. The
steam coming away is always of the same quality, however much the
fuel may vary.

The Johannesburg fiasco is still fresh in our minds, but before that
there had been similar troubles in large gas-power installations in
Spain and elsewhere. As compared with the steam boiler, the large
gas producer is still a faulty piece of apparatus, although it is being
improved. On the other hand, the present type of boiler is not
above criticism, for in size it has not kept pace with the steam-tur-
bine prime mover. For example, at the Lot’s Road power house
there are eight boilers for each of the 6,000-kilowatt steam-turbo gen-
erators, and the cubic space occupied by the boilers is about five times
that occupied by the steam-turbine set.

In the near future, steam-turbo generators will be of 20,000
kilowatts and over—one of larger size than that is now under
construction by Parsons & Co.—and as the size of the prime mover
increases, this space difficulty of the boilers also increases. It is
absurd that one turbo generator should require a dozen or so boilers
to supply it with steam.

A solution of the problem is the manufacture of the coal into gas
with the recovery of sulphate of ammonia, tar, and oils. Then the
gas must be burned in much more efficient boilers than those at pres-
ent in use.

Hitherto gas-fired boilers have been of very low efficiency, say,
somewhere about 50 per cent, but with the new method of Prof.
Bone and Mr. C. D. McCourt an efficiency of over 90 per cent is
attainable. The experimental plants at Leeds and at the Skininy-
grove Iron Works have demonstrated this beyond a doubt.

The method depends primarily on mixing gas and air together
in the exact proportions for complete combustion, then forcing the
mixture under pressure through tubes which are packed with pieces
of refractory material. The mixture is fired at the outlet end of the
tubes and strikes back to the entrance end. The flame quickly raises
the refractory material to an intense heat, and complete combustion
of the mixture takes place in about the first 6 inches from point of
entry. The combustion having been completed, the remainder of the
material acts as a baffle toward the burned gases as they traverse the
tubes at high velocity, causing them to impinge repeatedly on the
walls of the tubes. The evaporation is so rapid that the scaling
troubles met with in other types of multitubular boilers are com-
pletely obviated, the scale being automatically shed in thin films
about one-thirtieth inch thick as rapidly as it is formed.

The core of the material is maintained at a high temperature, but
when it comes in contact with the walls of the tube it is so rapidly
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

cooled by the transmission of heat to the water that it only attains
red heat.

A boiler erected on this principle at the Skininygrove Iron Works,
Yorkshire, in November last, had the following dimensions: Ten feet
diameter and 4 feet from back to front, 110 tubes, of 3 inches
internal diameter packed with fragments of fire brick. The gas sup-
plied from Otto Hilgenstock coke ovens is mixed with little more
than its correct proportion of air, and the mixture is forced into the
tubes at about 2 inches water-gauge pressure. The evaporation is
5,500 pounds of water per hour, and before being taken over by the
Skininygrove Iron Works Co., it was run for a month day and night.

When one considers that a well-known boiler to evaporate 3,140
pounds of water per hour occupies about 23 by 13 by 15 feet, it will
be seen how great a saving there is in space.

@ On February 21, 1912, Mr. Ernest Bury, M. Sc., wrote that the—

Boneourt boiler which was started up on November 7 last has continued to
work very satisfactorily; its working is almost entirely automatic, and is
included in the routine work of the exhaust-engine men, who have 11 running
machines under their control.

The boiler has been off for inspection of the tubes, which proved to be clean
and free from scale, a fact which I attribute to highly rapid ebullition. During
the length of time the boiler has been at work we have had no trouble with
priming, at all times the steam having been perfectly dry.

The average temperature of the waste gases leaving the plant has been
78-80° G., which is ample proof of the boiler’s efficiency.

Generally, I consider that the boiler has come up to expectations. It is cer-
tainly the cheapest method of raising steam which has yet been devised.

SIR WILLIAM RAMSAY’S PROPOSAL.

The proposal to burn the coal in situ and bring the gases to the
surface, when the ammonia, etc., can be extracted and the gases
utilized for power, has attracted a good deal of attention.

That the coal when fired will keep alight for years and give off
useful gases is quite well known. In New South Wales there is a
seam of coal which has been alight for many years, but it is near the
surface, and the air can get down fairly easily. With the deep seams
of this country special provision would have to be made.

For burning out seams in old collieries the scheme is very at-
tractive, because shafts already exist, and there are many seams
which are too thin to work in the ordinary way. The limit for
economical working appears to be 12 to 15 inches. Lidgett Colliery,
near Barnsley, worked an 18-inch thick seam for many years, but it
closed this year. There are, however, several other collieries in
Yorkshire working seams in the neighborhood of 15 inches thick;
one colliery near Wakefield having a seam 16 inches thick. In these
very thin seams the men have to go along the gate roads laid on low
trucks, face downward, and they propel themselves forward with
their toes. It really is surprising that men can be found to under-
NITRATES FROM ATMOSPHERE—SCOTT. 383

take such work, and no doubt, as time goes on, it will become more
and more difficult to get men for this work. Of course, these very
thin seams can only be worked when the coal is of very good quality
and prices are good. We may take it, therefore, that Sir William
Ramsay’s suggestion has plenty of scope in the seams of under 15
inches thick, of which there are many.

There are also many pits which contain the particular coal known
as “cannel,” which is specially suitable for making gas. A case in
point is the Leen Valley coal field of Nottinghamshire, where the
seam known as “ tophard” will be worked out in 20 years. Now, the
top part of this seam consists of inferior cannel coal, and since the
gas companies took to producing low illuminating gas and enriching
it with other materials than cannel, practically none of it has been
raised to the surface.

In the five collieries of the Leen Valley, namely Hucknall, Lenby,
Annesley, Bestwood, and Newstead, there are millions of tons of
cannel coal. to say nothing of slack left from the seam of tophard
coal and a great deal of timber.

The shafts are already down and roads made, and supposing that
lower seams prove unremunerative, then all this cannel coal could be
burnt out for a supply of gas. There are certainly 15,000 acres of
such coal within 120 miles of London.

KQUALIZING THE LOAD.

The problem of utilizing the electric energy of power stations at
periods when such stations are working on low loads is beginning
to attract the attention it deserves. The ideal for any power house is
to secure a load of 100 per cent load factor, and there is no doubt
that if greater efforts were made in this direction the price of power
would come down considerably.

The valleys have been filled in, to some extent, by power and trac-
tion loads, but as these also have to be supplied at the same time as
lighting the result was not as beneficial as it was thought it would be.

Now an electrochemical or metallurgical proposition is quite dif-
ferent, because such plants can often be shut down during the 24
hours for an hour or two; the load can therefore be adjusted to just
fill up the valleys.

The Yorkshire Electric Power Co. was early in the field with this
method of working, in connection with the carbide of calcium plant
at Thornhill. It is of interest to note, by the way, that this Pome
company is supplying electric energy to 15 collieries.

At Legnano a nitric acid plant of 4,000 kilowatts has been at w ie
for some time past, which operates only during the night and certain
hours of the day, when power is supplied at a cheap rate from the
hydroelectric station by the Societa. Lombarda per Distribuzione dell’
_ Energia Elettrica. Current is supplied by the power company at
50,000 volts, and, although the price charged does not. transpire, it is
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

evidently at a figure that enables the process to pay, because an ex-
tension of 9,000 kilowatts is being installed.

A proposal that is being seriously considered at the present time
in India is the utilization of the water power from an irrigation dam
for the manufacture of manure. Owing to irrigation requirements,
electric energy will only be available for nine months in the year,
but that will not militate against the manufacture, as nitrogen fixa-
tion furnaces can be shut down and started up again at any time.
The use of water from irrigation dams to manufacture manures for
the farmers gives double benefit, and there are many places in the
colonies, and in Australia in particular, where such a scheme is
feasible.

The Indian scheme is for 30,000 horsepower, and it is said that
37,000 tons of calcium cyanamide, containing 18 to 20 per cent nitro-
gen, can be produced in the nine months with that power.

CONCLUSION.

We, as a nation, are sadly behind Continental countries in the
exploitation of the electrometallurgical field. It is all very well to
start manufacturing “when, the business has steadied down,” but
generally by that time the best has been taken out of it. The pro-
cesses become ringed round with patent rights, for naturally the
master patents go to those who first commence to exploit a process
commercially.

In the fixation of nitrogen nearly all the pioneer work of the
laboratory stage was done in this country by Dr. Priestly, Lord
Rayleigh, Sir William Crookes, McDougall and Howles, ete. The
actual exploitation on a commercial scale has, however, been effected
by a few Norwegian and German engineers, and the center of gravity
of electrical enterprise at the present time appears to be in Scandi-
navia.

It is high time for the engineers and business men of this country
to go into the matter to see why it is we are lagging behind, and
especially to look into the question of cheap power supply. Above
everything else, a progressive industrial country wants cheap power,
whilst at the same time conserving its resources. We have carried
municipal trading in electricity further than other countries, but
have very little to show for it. There are a number of municipal
plants run by committees of amateurs who know nothing about the
business, and who frequently have not the sense to pay decent salaries
to engineers who could tell them. What chance have such plants of
generating cheaply ?

The big things of electrical engineering are now being passed over
because we lack cheap power, and this is especially the case in electro-
metallurgy. Within the next generation or so all previous work in
electricity will look small against it, for the future is certainly 8 |
the electrochemist and electrometallurgist.
THE GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA AND ITS IN-
FLUENCE UPON THE CHINESE PEOPLE.

By Prof. Evior BLACKWELDER,
University of Wisconsin.

{| With 9 plates. }

The Chinese Empire includes an area larger than the United States
with the addition of Alaska and our insular possessions. <A large
part of this vast area, however, is made up of dependencies which are
but loosely joined to China proper, and are not essential to its in-
tegrity. She has lost and regained these dependencies from time to
time in the past, and the same process may continue. The accom-
panying map will serve to show the relation of these component parts
of the Empire to each other and to surrounding countries.

Divested of its outlying possessions, China consists of 18 Provinces,
which may be compared in a_ general way to our States. The
Provinces are, however, generally larger than the States and, on the
whole, much more populous. There is still greater dissimilarity in
government because, whereas our States are representative democ-
racies, the Chinese Provinces were, at least until within a year or
two, satrapies ruled absolutely by imperial governors or viceroys.

Not a few people in America picture China as a vast fertile plain,
perhaps like the upper Mississippi Valley, densely populated and in-
tensively cultivated. In fact, however, it is so generally mountain-
ous that less than one-tenth of its surface is even moderately flat.
On the west, especially, it is ribbed with cordilleras from which its
two great rivers, the Yangtze and the Hwang, flow eastward to the
Pacific.

In addition to this diversity of surface, there is also much variety
of climate. In the northwest the conditions are dry and severe, like
those of Montana and central Wyoming, while in the southeast they
are humid and subtropical, approaching those of the Philippine
Islands. Such are the extremes.

1 Reprinted by permission, with author's revision, from the Popular Science Monthly,
February, 1915. All of the larger photographs and some of the smaller ones were taken
by Mr. Bailey Willis and are reproduced through the courtesy of the Carnegie Institution
of Washington.

44863°—sm 1918——25 385

«
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

It is a fact well known to geologists that continents, and therefore
countries, have not always existed in their present state, but that they
have been built as a result of successive events and changes of condi-
tions. If we were to dig beneath the surface in any part of China,
we should find first one stratum and then another, and we should see
also that these strata have been bent, cracked, and otherwise disturbed.
Some of these structures are old and some young. It would be some-
what like excavating in an ancient city, where one house or temple
has been built upon the ruins of its predecessor, and each affords a
crude record of its time. The geologic structure of such a country as
China has been determined largely by the rocks of which it consists,
partly by the climate to which it has been subject, but chiefly by the
geologic events
which have  oc-
curred during its
history. Ofcourse
the beginnings of
that history are
unknown, just as
the human history
of China shades
into darkness
when we attempt
to trace it back
into the remote
ages. But the
present features of
the. land. are

Fic. 1.—SkKETCH MAP OF CHINA. chiefly due to the

Showing its outlying dependencies and its relation to other countries. later events in its

life, and these have been partly worked out by the geologists who
have explored its surface.

We may take as a convenient starting point for our interpretation
a time far back in geologic chronology,t when China was a land sur-
face which had been exposed to erosion so long that nearly all the
hills and mountains that may have existed there before had been worn
away, leaving a relatively flat plain, with groups of low hills here and
there. The rocks beneath this plain were of various kinds, most of
them highly folded. Eventually this surface was submerged beneath
a comparatively shallow inland sea; and although the uneasy move-
ments of the earth’s body caused the sea bottom to emerge occasion-
ally, it remained below the water nearly all through the geologic
periods which constitute the Paleozoic era, By the end of that time

1 Just before the Cambrian period,
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder. PLATE 1.

RELIEF MAP OF CHINA PROPER, SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF PLAINS TO MOUNTAINS.

‘Boe
GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA—BLACKWELDER. 387

we may picture China as a shallow sea bottom rising very gradually
to a marshy coastal plain on the east. During the long intervening
ages the accumulation of sediments upon the sea bottom had formed
successive layers of limestone, shale, and sandstone, which eventually
reached a thickness of 5,000-10,000 feet.

This condition did not hold without end, for eventually! strong
compressive forces engendered in the underlying body of the earth
squeezed the superficial rocks into folds, and thus bulged the surface
high above sea level in the region so affected. By the prompt attack
of streams, winds, glaciers, and the other agencies which are inces-
santly sculpturing the surface of the earth, these eleyated districts
were, even while rising, carved into rugged mountains and deep val-
leys, so that the original folds were greatly disfigured, even before
the compressive forces ceased to operate.

It is a fact generally recognized among geologists that in terms of
geologic time such episodes of compression and folding are short
lived. They are soon followed by much longer periods, during which
the internal forces of the earth are quiescent but in which the erosive
agencies have free play. If any land remains indefinitely above sea:
level and is not disturbed by movements from below, the mountains
and hills will eventually be worn away and there will be left only a
broad, almost featureless, plain. It is believed that China, in conse-
quence of such a period of quiescence,? was reduced to a lowland from
which almost all of the preexisting mountains had been removed. In
this condition it probably remained for more than one geologic
period, and the western part may even have been submerged beneath
the sea which at that time covered northern India and part of Tibet.
In that sea were deposited the thick beds of limestone which are now
found in some of the western mountain ridges.

Again, in the Miocene period the forces of distortion within the
earth accumulated to such strength that they were able to repeat the
mashing and folding, but this time the area affected lay farther to the
west and south. At the same time, or perhaps earlier, the eastern
part of China was cracked in various directions; and the intervening
blocks, settling somewhat unevenly upon their bases, left a group of
escarpments and depressions comparable to those now to be found in
western Nevada and southern Oregon. As before, the work of erosion
and the leveling of the surface was at once accelerated, so that even
before the deformation had spent itself the blocks were deeply
scarred, It is uncertain how far this period of erosion succeeded in
reducing China to base level. The consummation may have been
prevented by gentle warpings of the surface, rising very slowly here
and sinking there. When compared with the great breadth of the

1 Jurassic period, ° Cretaceous and Hocene periods,
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

areas affected, these changes of level seem very slight, but they are
nevertheless sufficient to cause great changes in the aspect of the
country.
It is one of the basal principles of physiography that streams tend
to produce in their channels an almost uniform slope from their head-
waters to the sea. If any part of the channel is so flat that the stream

SOUTH-WEST NORTH-EAST

——>

Sr te

. a = : = = ri J a

eS SESE : Gp Ree at

Fee ee LALA, i= =

See), SN
JURASSIC

CRETACEOUS - EOCENE
Seah Se
= TAGE Eo OE
RST ae A
MIOCENE
SZECHUAN ALPS SZECHUAN BASIN CENTRAL RANGES SHANSt PLATEAUS MUANE-HO PLAIN SHANTUNG MTS.
Dea SUR | Veer SI SSS eer EP
bis <2 / b 7 a Ps Tet TATA: i
eee All Inia eee Bis snoee

PRESENT

FIG. 2.—DIAGRAMS TO ILLUSTRATE GEOLOGICAL CONDITIONS IN CHINA AT DIFFERENT
PERIODS IN ITs HISTORY.

The features are necessarily much generalized and in part hypothetical.

is too sluggish to carry sediment, it is built up until it reaches the
required gradient; and on the other hand, if any part has too steep
a declivity, it is gradually worn down to the proper slope. In con-
sequence of this law, the parts of China which were slightly bulged
above their original levels were reattacked by the branching systems
of rivers with renewed vigor. By carving out the softer rocks, these
GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA—-BLACK WELDER. 389

have made deep valleys with intervening mountain ranges. Some
of the larger rivers, such as the Yangtze, maintained their courses in
spite of the slow uplifts directly athwart their courses. A result is
the magnificent series of gorges along the central Yangtze where the
great river has sawed its way through a slowly rising mass of hard,
complexly folded rocks.

On the other hand, the broad areas which were depressed not only
below the general level of stream action, but below sea level, were rap-
idly filled with sand, loam, and clay washed down out of the adjacent
mountains by the streams. The process of filling the depressions is
the exact complement of the process of etching out the highlands. No
doubt the rivers have been able in large measure to keep pace with
the sinking movement of the ground, so that great rivers like the
Hwang may have maintained perfectly graded courses across the
region of depression from the mountains to the sea. While thus en-
gaged in building up its channel, the river in time of flood frequently
breaks through its low banks, shifts its channel, and then begins to
fill up.a new and hitherto lower part of its surroundings. By the
long continuance of this process of repeated shiftings and fillings,
the great eastern plain of China and many smaller plains have been
produced. It is here, where the population is densest and the rivers
least confined, that the devastation by floods and their attendant
famines is greatest.

By this succession of events the surface of China is believed to have
reached its modern condition. We may now consider it piecemeal
and see how the existing geologic conditions, which are the result of
this long series of past changes, influence the habits, occupations,
and even mental traits of the people. Because space is limited and
also because I have not seen all the physiographic divisions of China,
it will not be possible for me, even briefly, to describe each of them.
A few are therefore selected to show the range of variety of the whole.

The mountains of northeastern China, typified by the province of
Shantung, are unlike those of the rest of the country in several re-
spects. Although the individual peaks are often sharp and rocky,
they are generally separated by wide, flat-bottomed valleys. The
process of erosion has here gone so far that the rivers have already
carried away most of the land, leaving only isolated groups of low
mountains. The broad valleys accommodate a relatively large num-
ber of people, who congregate in the villages dotting the intermontane
plains. In contrast with most mountainous regions, travel between
the different valleys is comparatively easy here, because many of the
passes are but little higher than the plains themselves, and constitute
scarcely any obstacle to progress. Roads are plentiful, and so the cart
and the wheelbarrow are the principal vehicles for through traffic. .
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

This is one of the few parts of China where boats can be but little
used. The streams are shallow and full of sand bars, and on account
of the pronounced wet and dry seasons many of them are intermit-
tent. For these reasons the majority of them are not navigable.
The deeply eroded land of Shantung has, however, suffered a rela-
tively recent movement—apparently a sinking of the land—which
has allowed the ocean to penetrate the mouths of many of the coastal
valleys. This marginal drowning has produced some excellent har-
bors, such as that of Chefoo, the great silk port, and Tsingtau, the
German stronghold.

Whi SMG =

‘Alt
R\
=

=

,
BL

Quy ‘Ss

ts nk ~ =<
> ‘a Fl Mey A/T
wo" N wy

Hus
ww ia oy

-

Fig. 3.—_SKETCH MAP OF THE SILT PLAIN OF THE YELLOW RIVER.
The dotted lines indicate former courses of the river, as it spread over its alluvial fan.

On the west, and encircling the Shantung hills, lies the great plain
of the Hwang or Yellow River, which will serve as the type of
many much smaller plains in various parts of China. As explained
before, this vast gently sloping plain has been built by the Yellow
River and some of its tributaries in an effort to preserve a uni-
form gradient across the sunken portion of eastern China. Like
the Lower Mississippi and all other rivers which are building up
rather than cutting down their beds, the Hwang is subject to fre-
quent floods and occasional shiftings of its channel. Its course be-
tween the mountains and the sea has thus been changed more than
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder.

Fig. 1.—Low isolated mountain group in
northeastern China.

Fig. 2.—Two farmers raising water from the
grand canal into the head of an irrigating
ditch by means of a wicker basket slung
between them.

Fig. 5.—Heavily loaded freight wheelbar-
rows with mules for motive power.
Fig. 6.—A typical passenger cart.

PLATE 2.

Fig. 3.—A wide River Plain among the
mountains of Shan-Tung. The bridge of
stone slabs across the sand-laden river is
part of the principal wheelbarrow road
of the valley.

Fig. 4.—A typical city wall, with gate tower.

Fig. 7.—Freight wheelbarrows rigged to
take advantage of a favorable wind.

Fig. 8—A medium-sized house-boat used
on the Yang-tze-Kiang and its tributaries,
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder. PLATE 3

Fia. 1.—SoOIL RESERVOIRS ON A HILLSIDE IN THE LOESS COUNTRY.

Fig. 2.—MOUNTAIN SLOPES IN NORTHWESTERN CHINA, TERRACED TO PREVENT
THE EROSION OF THE LOESS.
GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA—-BLACKWELDER. 391

fifteen times in the last 3,000 years. In these incessant shiftings the
river has strewn all over an enormous area, 500 miles from north to
south by 300 miles from east to west, layer after layer of fine yellow
loam or silt; the very name “ Yellow River,” which is a translation
of the Chinese “ Hwang-ho,” suggests the close resemblance to our
own mud-laden Missouri. Almost every square foot of this vast
alluvial fan is, of course, underlain by a deep and fertile soil, and is
intensively cultivated by the industrious Chinese inhabitants. One
sees no large fields of grain, such as those on our Dakota prairies,
but, instead, thousands of small truck gardens belonging to the
inhabitants of the hundreds of little mud-walled villages with which
the plain is dotted. The ever-present town walls have doubtless been
built, because the inhabitants have no natural refuges, as their moun-
tain cousins have, and their very accessibility has made them in the
past the frequent prey of Mongol and Tartar invaders or of rebels
and rioters from within their own country.

Since the water supply of the plain is not lavish but little rice is
grown there. The dry-land grains and such vegetables as cabbages
and potatoes are the staple crops. The small gardens are sparingly
irrigated, however, in times of drought, by water taken from the
canals or wells, with the help of various types of crude pumps oper-
ated by men or by donkeys (pl. 2, fig. 5; pl. 5, fig. 5).

In this densely populated alluvial plain there is practically no
pasturage and no woodland. From the very nature of the plain it
could not yield coal, which is always associated with the solid rocks.
To bring fuel, as we do, from distant parts of the country is impos-
sibly expensive for the Chinese, without an adequate railroad system,
and that is still a thing of the future. When the harvest has been
gathered in the autumn the village children are therefore sent out
to gather up every scrap of straw or stubble that can be used either
for fodder or for fuel. The fields thus left perfectly bare in the
_ dry winter season afford an unlimited supply of fine dust to every
wind that blows. This is doubtless the explanation of the disagree-
able winter dust storms with which every foreigner who has lived
in northern China is only too familiar.

Although carts and wheelbarrows are much used on the Hwang
Plain, their traffic is chiefly local. That may be due in part to the
fact that the numerous wide and shifty rivers are difficult to bridge,
while ferrying is relatively expensive. Another, and perhaps more
important, reason is that the rivers, and particularly their old, aban-
doned courses, afford natural waterways which are available nearly
everywhere. By taking advantage of these or by deepening them.
and in some places by actually digging canals through the soft
material of the plain, the Chinese have put together the wonderful
system of interlaced canals for which they have been renowned since
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Europeans first visited them. The thousands of junks which ply
these waterways maintain a volume of inland commerce, which is
inferior only to that of the great railroad countries, such as the
United States. The relative freedom of communication in this great
plain of the Yellow River has helped to bring about a greater homo-
geneity in the people than in any other equally large part of China.
Here we find a single dialect in use over the entire region, whereas
in some parts of southern China the natives of even adjacent valleys
speak languages almost unintelligible to each other.. The other com-
mon effects of isolation, such as the lack of acquaintance with the
customs of outside peoples, the hatred of foreigners, the peculiar
local usages, and many other things, are less prominent here than in
other parts of the empire. Excepting the coastal cities, there is no
safer part of China for foreigners to travel through.

West and northwest of the Yellow River Plain lie the more rugged
plateaus and mountains of northwest China, with their subarid
climate presaging the approach to the deserts of Mongolia. Over
much of this region the ancient limestones and sandstones are still
horizontal or are gently folded, with occasional dislocations along
faults. On account of the comparatively recent uplift and differ-
ential warping which this part of China has suffered, the streams
have been greatly accelerated in their work, so that they have hol-
lowed out canyons in the raised portions and have filled in the de-
pressed basins with sand and silt. This is the region celebrated
among geologists on account of the loess, or yellow earth, which lines
the basins and mantles the hillsides everywhere. It is believed that
this is very largely a deposit of wind-blown dust, although it has been
worked over considerably by the streams from time to time. No
doubt Baron von Richthofen, the distinguished German explorer,
was near the truth when he concluded more than 40 years ago, that
the “ yellow earth” was the dust of the central Asian deserts carried
into China by the northwest winds. The presence of the loess deter-
mines, in large measure, the mode of living adopted by the inhabi-
tants. Because of its fertility and moisture-conserving properties,
it is well adapted to dry farming, and there is little water for irriga-
tion. The Chinese are not content with using the level bottom lands,
but suecessfully cultivate the hillsides wherever a deposit of the loess
remains. In order to prevent the soil from washing off from these
steep slopes, they build a series of stone walls, thus forming soil
reservoirs or terraces. In this way nearly all of the soil is utilized.

In such a country rivers are not numerous and those which exist
have many rapids and shoals. Boats are therefore but little used in
northwest China. For both passenger and freight traffic, pack ani-
mals or rude vehicles are the chief reliance. For passengers there
are also the palanquin or sedan chair and the mule litter. Where the

ee
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder. PLATE 4,

Fig. 1.—Cave houses in the loess, faced Fig. 3.—A pack train of donkeys, on the
8 s Pp N

with stone. : imperial highway over the Loess Plateau.
Fig. 2.—Men and donkeys carrying coal Fig. 4.—A roadside villageand sinall fields
from the mines in Shansi. at the bottom of the mountain valley.

Fia. 5.—A ROADWAY SUNK DEEP INTO THE LOESS BY CENTURIES OF TRAVEL.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder.

Fig. 1.—A two-man wheelbarrow carrying
a merchant and his stock of goods.

Fig. 2.—A river junk.

Fig. 3.—A friendly crowd
town.

Fig. 4.—Mongolian camels in northwestern
China.

in an inland

PLATE 5.

Fig. 5.—Irrigating
from a well.

Fig. 6.—A sedan chair swung between two
mules.

Fig. 7.—Getting his initiation into farming
with grub hook and basket.

Fig. 8.—Coolies fording a mountain river.

with water pumped
GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA—BLACKWELDER. 398

country is not too rough, the two-wheeled cart is the usual conveyance
for merchandise. Over the mountain passes, however, and in many
of the smaller valleys, roads are so narrow that carts can not be used,
and so here pack animals, particularly horses and mules, are sub-
stituted. The traveler in this part of China is often reminded of his
proximity to Mongolia by the frequent sight of camels. They are
nevertheless not indigenous beasts of burden and the inhabitants
themselves do not use them.

In consequence of the swampy state which prevailed in this part of
China far back in the carboniferous period, thick deposits of coal
were formed. These are now exposed in the deep valley slopes be-
tween beds of limestone and sandstone, and the circumstance has
made Shansi Province the principal coal-producing district of China.
The coal is mined by very primitive methods and as there is still no
adequate system of railroads in this or any other part of the empire,
the product can be transported only in carts or on pack animals.
Hither of these modes of carriage is so expensive that it becomes un-
profitable to transport the coal more than 60 to 100 miles from the
mine, and so the denizens of a great part of northern China, where
fuel is scarce and the winters are severe, are no more able to obtain it
than as if the United States contained the only coal fields in the
world. The advantages that will accrue from the building of rail-
roads in northern China are many, but one of the greatest will be the
wide distribution of this essential fuel.

In going south by west from the plateau country, one enters a re-
gion of warmer climate and more generous rainfall, which, for want
of a more distinctive name, I have called the Central Ranges. This
is the part of China which was particularly affected by the rock-
folding movements of the Jurassic period, and which in a much more
recent time has been reelevated and therefore newly attacked by the
streams and other erosive agencies. Broadly regarded, it is a com-
plex of sharp mountain ridges and spurs with narrow intervening
valleys. The ridges are not so high, however, but that they are clad
with vegetation, and the scenery is therefore not alpine. The surface
is nevertheless very rugged and its internal relief averages at least
3,000 feet. The roughest parts of our Carolinas resemble it in a
measure. In such a region obviously there is no room for a dense
population. Wherever there is a little widening of the bottom of the
valley there is a farm or occasionally a small village, and even the
scattered benches high up the mountain sides are reached by steep
trails and diligently cultivated. But even when all of these are com-
bined, the total area of land under settlement is relatively small.

In this region there are no railroads whatever, and although wagon
roads could be built in some places, they would be expensive, and the
Chinese have not yet attempted to make them. All travel and com-
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

merce, therefore, depend on the agency of pack animals or coolies, and
the roads they follow are mere trails winding around the steep moun-
tain sides or threading the bottoms of narrow valleys, where swift
streams must be forded at frequent intervals. Under such circum-
stances it is evident that there can be but little effective traffic. Only
comparatively light and expensive articles can be transported long
distances. Around the edges of the mountain mass where the popu-
lous cities of the adjoining plains can be reached with one or two
days’ travel there has been for centuries an important trade in lum-
ber. The mountains have now been so largely deforested, however,
that it is necessary to go farther and farther back into the heads of
the valleys to find large trees. Hence only the more expensive kinds
of lumber such as coffin boards—which are absolutely indispensable,
even to the poorer classes—can profitably be brought out. These are
often carried for 20 or 30 miles on the backs of coolies—a costly mode
of transportation. The smaller trees and brush the mountaineers
convert into charcoal, which they carry on their own backs down to
the towns along the foothills.

Lack of transportation facilities is doubtless the chief reason why
the opium poppy has in the past been widely cultivated in this part
of China, although the practice has lately been prohibited by the
Government. The advantage in poppy culture was that it could be
carried on in small scattered fields and the product was so valuable
for unit of weight that it would pay for long-distance transportation
across the mountains. The inhabitants of the region themselves were
not, however, generally addicted to the use of the drug.

The rainfall of the central mountain region is sufficient to supply
the many springs and tributary brooks of which the people have
made use in irrigation. The mildness of the climate here permits the
growing of rice, and by terracing the hillsides they are able to make
a succession of narrow curved basins, in which the aquatic crop may
be grown. For the cultivation of rice it is necessary that the fields
be completely submerged during part of the season, and so there must
be a plentiful supply of water.

On the larger rivers, such as the Han and the Yangtze and their
chief tributaries boats are successfully used. In fact, the Chinese
river boatmen are so skillful in the handling of their high-prowed
skiffs that they navigate canyons full of rapids which most of us
would consider too dangerous to attempt. The descent of one of
these rivers is an easy although exciting experience. The return trip,
however, is slow and laborious, for the boats must be dragged up-
stream by coolies harnessed to a long bamboo rope, which has the
advantage of being very light as well as strong. In the many places
where the river banks are so precipitous that it is impossible to walk
PLATE 6.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder.

LING MOUNTAINS OF CENTRAL CHINA.

A VALLEY IN THE TSIN

lver,

e seen on benches high above the r

Small cultivated fields may b
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder. PLATE 7

Fic. 1.—COOLIES CARRYING FREIGHT ALONG A MOUNTAIN TRAIL WHICH HAS BEEN
PARTLY WASHED OUT BY A TURBULENT STREAM.

Fia. 2.—RIVER SKIFFS IN ONE OF THE LIMESTONE GORGES OF THE CENTRAL™
RANGES.
"NVMHO3ZS JO NISVG SHL OSNIYSGHOG SNIVLNNO|W SHI NI MalA NadO NV

te} SUL Akal apjamyoeig—'e16| ‘Hodey uRluosy}WS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Blackwelder, PLATE 9.

Fig. 1.—A VALLEY IN THE CENTRAL RANGES.

In the foreground are a series of terraced rice fields now filled with water.

Fic. 2.—ONE OF THE GREAT LIMESTONE GORGES THROUGH WHICH
THE YANG-TZE-KIANG PIERCES THE CENTRAL RANGES.
GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF CHINA—-BLACKWELDER. 395

along them it becomes necessary for the boatmen to pole around the
cliff or to zigzag from one side of the river to the other to take
advantage of every foothold.

Through the central part of this mountain uplift the great Yangtze
River, which in its lower course readily accommodates large ocean-
going vessels, has carved a succession of superb gorges. In many
places the gray limestone walls rise from 3,000 to 4,000 feet above the
river, and the stream is compressed into less than a tenth of its usual
width. Difficult and dangerous as are these canyons, beset with
rapids and whirlpools, they afford the only ready means of commu-
nication between eastern China and the fertile basin of Szechwan,
which lies west of the Central Ranges.

Without the highway of the Yangtze this great Province, four
times are large as Illinois and with more people than all of our States
east of the Mississippi River, would be unable to export its many rich
products or to enjoy the commerce of outside Provinces and nations.
It has been effectually barred off from India and Burma by the sue-
cession of high ranges and deep canyons which appear to be due
primarily to the great epoch of folding in the Miocene period. Sze-
chwan is a broad basin which has never been depressed low enough
to force the streams to level its bottom with alluvial deposits, as in
the Yellow River plain to the east; nor does it seem to have been ele-
vated into a high plateau which would have been carved by many
streams into a rugged mountain country. The soft red sandstone
beds which underlie it have therefore been sculptured into a network
of valleys with intervening red hills or buttes. With a climate as
mild and moist as that of Alabama, and a diversified topography.
there is opportunity for many industries and for the cultivation of a
great variety of crops. Szechwan leads all the Provinces in the ex-
portation of silk. Here grow the lacquer and oil nut trees and a
wide range of field and garden fruits, grains, and vegetables. Ample
water for irrigation and especially for rice culture is supplied by the
many perennial streams which descend from the encircling moun-
tains. These uplifted and now mountainous tracts have also served
as a barrier to invaders from all directions, so that this has been less
subject to wars than almost any other part of China, and hence has
been more stable in development. Its inhabitants are among the
most substantial and progressive components of the Chinese nation.

We now come to the last of the geologic divisions which were laid
out for consideration. From the Szechwan Basin southwest to the
confines of India there extends a series of high mountain ranges sepa-
rated by deep and narrow valleys, all trending in a south or south-
easterly direction. Although not so high above sea-level as the moun-
tains north and south of Tibet, these ranges are an even more effec-
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

tive barrier to travel because they are so continuous and the relief is
so great. Not only is there no waterway but there are no wagon
roads, and the building of a railroad would be a stupendous and ex-
pensive engineering task. Such a road would necessarily involve the
making of a succession of long bridges and tunnels. Here, as in the
central ranges, settlements are limited to the rare open spots in the
bottoms of valleys, and so the population is sparse indeed. The total
commerce is very small in volume, because goods must be carried
almost entirely on the backs of coolies. The rugged characteristics
of the region are evidently the direct result of the recency of the
compressive movement which produced the tremendous mountain
folds, and perhaps are still more due to the renewed uplifts which
have permitted the streams to continue the carving of their deep
gorges. This part of China is geologically very young, and to quote
the words of the distinguished old geologist of California, Joseph
Le Conte, “the wildness of youth (here) has not yet been tempered
by the mellowness of age.”

in
THE PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY.'!

By Dr. E. Apert,’

Principal at Andral Hospital, Paris. Secretary General of La Société francaise
d’ Bugenique.

It is my pleasure to address you, ladies, on a most attractive sub-
ject—heredity. What is more interesting than to study a child’s
physical, intellectual, and moral resemblance to either of its parents
(direct heredity), to its more or less remote ancestors (atavic hered-
ity), or to its uncles, aunts, male or female cousins (collateral hered-
ity) ? What is more enthusing than to search out the reason why and
how this resemblance is brought about? And vet it was with some
hesitancy that I accepted an invitation to speak to you on this subject.
I feared to impose upon you, at least in the second part of my ad-
dress, some difficult, abstruse, mathematical explanations, compelling
me to put before you some rather formidable looking algebraic sym-
bols, which will demand your closest attention. If I consent to talk
to you of heredity, as I have been obliged to do for a dozen years, it
certainly would not do for me to tell you of curious and amusing
facts without giving other explanations than unverified theories. We
are beyond that, and you would have me at once make you acquainted
with recent advances; the result of experimental studies on animals
and plants and their explanation requires a knowledge of natural
history ideas and of general biology which I will be obliged to recall
to you; but these discoveries are applicable just as much to the
human species as to the more humble animals and plants. I will
therefore explain them to you in detail.

I would, perhaps, have passed over in silence that most difficult
part of the subject if I had been called to speak before a frivolous
worldly audience. But I have before me here an assembly of the
very highest type. I know that you are ladylike women who do not
wish a lecturer to divert or amuse you, but to instruct you. You
come here to acquire knowledge which will enable you to be useful to
all, to your surroundings, to your neighbors, to your country. Every
day you prove that you do not fear the trouble you take. It is not
much to exact a little attention from you, since you do not dread the

1 Translated by permission, with author’s revision, from Revue Scientifique, Paris, July
12, 1918.

* Lecture before *‘ l'Union des Femmes de France"’ (French Red Cross).

397
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

difficult care of the sick or injured, the dressing of wounds, the
groans of those operated upon, or the death rattle of the dying. I
recall that several of your members are at this moment on the field of
battle, and have no fear of facing climatic dangers and enduring
hardships even unto death.

You know that the laws of heredity are susceptible of happy appli-
cations in the human species, so that you will not doubt, I am sure,
some explanations that I shall give as briefly and as clearly as it is
possible for me to do.

Heredity. What is meant by that word? You know what it is.
It is a fact of daily occurrence, that the descendants reproduce more
or less completely certain peculiarities which existed in one or the
other of their ancestors.

There is right here a point of observation so universal, so generally
known, that it is never overlooked, after the birth of a new-born
child, to ask who it resembles. Is it the father? Is it the mother?
Generally, persons who have known the father as a child are of the
opinion that the newly born is exactly like its father at the same age.
On the other hand, those who knew the mother do not. hesitate to say,
“ But no; that little mouth, those large eyes, are they not its mother’s?
There is a most striking resemblance.” In reality both of these ob-
servations are correct, and we shall see that mathematically the child
has exactly one-half of the characteristics coming from the paternal
and one-half from the maternal line. If, in certain cases, very rare,
however, the child seems to have inherited more from one side than
the other, it is because certain characteristics are susceptible of re-
maining latent, masked, invisible; but they exist none the less, and
generally these latent characteristics include some paternal and some
maternal characteristics, so that in the great majority of cases the
child after all is an equal mixture of both parties, a mixture some-
times happy, sometimes, alas, unfortunate. It is these unfortunate
cases that a knowledge of the laws of heredity may in some degree
restrain.

Heredity bears not only on the features but on the physical char-
acteristics, the build, weight, tints of the skin, the eyes, the hair, ete.
It rules also the intellectual side, the morals, morbidness, ete.—in a
word, all that constitutes individuality.

Certain individual characteristics may be transmitted for many
generations. The ancients have preserved to us the history of this
transmission in the Cicero and Lentulus families by some marks on
their countenances, to which they owe their name (“cicer,” chick-
pea; “lentulus,” lentil). In the same way a lock of white hair at
the middle of the forehead of the youth was for a long time trans-
mitted, they tell us, in the family of the Rohans. But these family
characteristics are not long in disappearing, which can be understood,
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT. 399

for at each generation the women are carrying half of an hereditary
element which is exempt from the peculiarity. The extraordinary
part of it is that in the cases cited these peculiarities have not dis-
appeared sooner.

On the other hand, it is very natural that some peculiarities should
be perpetuated where marriages take place within a limited circle
and where the same families constantly intermarry for several gen-
‘erations. This is seen in certain regions, but the facility of inter-
communication tends, however, to render such conditions more and
more difficult. The populations of certain of our coast islands
(Ouessant, Brehat) have for that reason taken on a special type.
Nearly all the inhabitants of a valley in the high Alps show what
they call sex digitism; that is, an extra finger and toe. Emigration
toward the cities has caused these people to disappear. Sometimes
certain family groups are found isolated from the rest of the popu-
lation not only by geographical obstacles but by their costumes,
manners, and differences of religion. They may begin to take on
a certain type even when they are primitively of the same race.
Thus the Mohammedans of China, who are not immigrants, but pure
Chinese, have a special type of feature; the Parsees of India, who are
of the same Indo-European race as the Brahmans, are of a type very
different from them; the Polish Jews, who are not the immigrant
Israelites, but who are descended from tribes converted during the
tenth century of our era, partly to Christianity, partly to Judaism,
have ended by separating themselves from their brothers, the Polish
Catholics, not only in their physical characteristics and their intel-
lectual aptitudes but also by their special disposition to certain dis-
eases peculiar to them and which form part of a group of familiar
nervous maladies that I will mention in a moment.

There is a group of families which have intermarried almost ex-
clusively for nearly 1,000 years. They are the royal families of
Europe. This group presents a very important and particularly in-
teresting subject of study on account of the quality of the persons
composing it and because of the facility with which their history
and even their portraits can be traced back to a very early period.
In a highly authoritative work Mons. Galippe has brought together
more than 200 portraits of members of the royal houses of France,
Spain, Austria, Bavaria, and Savoy, who have united with each other
by repeated marriages in nearly every generation. It is easy to see
that a family resemblance was very quickly manifested. It is char-
acterized principally by two peculiarities, the arched nose, the Bour-
bon nose, which is found not alone among the Bourbons, but among
the royalty of all the Catholic thrones of Europe, and also the pro-
jection of the very heavy lower jaw, the teeth projecting over those
of the upper jaw. The portrait of Philip II of Spain at the Louvre
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

and the portraits of Charles V show this peculiarity most strongly,
and it is still found more or less characterized in the great majority
of members of royal families, as much among the great houses that
we have mentioned as on the small thrones of more recent founda-
tion where they are at once fixed by repeated alliances.

You see, the peculiarities persist in successive generations only
when they exist at the same time in the paternal and maternal an-
cestors. In the inverse case they rapidly disappear.

In what concerns the intellectual faculties we reach the same con-
clusions. We could cite numerous examples of families where the
same order of talents has appeared among several members. Among
literateurs, the two Plinys (uncle and nephew), Seneca and _ his
nephew Lucien, the two Corneille brothers and their nephew Fonte-
nelle, the two Chénier brothers, the two Musset brothers, the two
Alexandre Dumas, father and son, and many others. Among learned
men we find the physicists Becquerel, grandfather, father, son, and
grandson ; the mathematicians Bernouilli, uncle and three nephews or
grandnephews, and the naturalists Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire, Isodore
and Etienne, father and son. Among painters are the three Vernet.
Carl, Joseph, and Horace. We could lengthen the list very much,
but the persistency of high talent seldom persists more than three
generations. In order that this may be otherwise, the inheritance of
a certain talent must be maintained by the union of families equally
endowed. We could mention several examples of this. Thus the
Darwin and the Galton families, both of which include eminent
naturalists, have been thus united repeatedly. Here we find the per-
sistence of remarkable faculties relative to natural history for five
generations, since Erasmus and Robert Darwin, both naturalists
of high merit, grandfather and father of the illustrious Charles
Darwin, down to the sons and grandsons of the latter, one of whom,
George, has recently died after achieving some remarkable work in
natural history, and another, Leonard Darwin, who presided re-
cently at the meeting of the Eugenic Congress in London. The Gal-
tons likewise were perpetuated by Sir Francis Galton, grandson of
Charles Darwin through his mother. It was he who founded the
Eugenie Laboratory of London, and accumulated numerous works on
heredity, from which the greater part of the facts that I will relate
to you are borrowed.

The most beautiful example of mental heredity is that of the Bach
family, the musicians. The beginner was Veit Bach, a baker at Pres-
bourg, who refreshed himself after his toil by his songs and music.
He had two sons, who commenced that unbroken line of musicians
of the same name which spread over Thuringe, Saxony, and Fran-
conia for nearly two centuries. Fifty-seven musicians of that family

*
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT, 401

have left a record and twenty-nine are mentioned by Galton as emi-
nent musicians.

The Bachs contracted numerous marriages for their daughters
with former music masters, organists, and town musicians, as the
custom of the body corporate at that time permitted. Those fre-
quent marriages among musicians could not help having great in-
fluence upon the musical talent of their offspring, and this, says Mr.
Ribot, is one of the most beautiful examples of artificial or natural
selection that one would find in the human species.

We now come to heredity of moral characteristics. Morality is
transmitted in families; an honest father and mother have good sons
and daughters. Of course education and good example have their
share in it, but so also does heredity. Inversely, bad principles are
transmitted in families, and we read in every book on heredity the
history of that mendicant who arrived in the English colonies of
America in the early days of their colonization, and who, endowed
with all vices—a drunkard, a thief, and debauched—had passed half
of her long life in prison. She had had numerous children, and in
looking over the civil archives of the State and also those of the
galleys and prisons we can safely state that among several hundred
of her descendants four-fifths were delinquents for misdeeds of
various kinds and a dozen had ended their lives on the gallows.

Permit me here one digression. It suggests a subject which has been
much considered—that of responsibility. Since tendency to crime is
inherited, since there are born criminals, are they responsible for
their crime, and should they be punished? Are they responsible?
The question should be considered from two very different stand-
points. There is the philosophical point of view. It is possible that
from that view, we might say that responsibility does not exist, for
all our acts are determined by causes and that our will is only an illu-
sion. I will not discuss this, for centuries since the time of ancient
philosophers have not sufficed to settle it, and I have no desire to
enter into the controversy of the free will, of the efficient cause, and
the determining of our acts. That phase of the question, however,
ought by no means prevent us from responding when we consider the
practical point of view. On this side the more the delinquent has
acted through the fact of tendency due either to heredity, environ-
ment, or to education, the greater the need that he fear chastisement,
for it is only such fear that restrains the immorally born person.
The accidental delinquent should certainly be punished, but his pun-
ishment is not a social necessity; for the punishment of being a born
criminal is forced upon him; it is rendering him a service to
furnish him the only reason that he has for struggling against his bad
instincts. The only irresponsible beings are delinquents who have

44863°—sm 1918—— 26

.
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

lost all consciousness of their acts, epileptics for example, who in
their normal state have no recollection of what they may have done
during their frenzy, and also certain insane persons. There remains
for me the discussion of the inheritance of diseases, an interesting
phase of the question of heredity, because of its many practical and
important applications. We should distinguish, on the one hand,
between inherited maladies, known as family diseases, which seem
to have no other cause than that of heredity, and, on the other hand,
the much more common illness where heredity plays only a predis-
posed or accessory part and is merely a factor among other more
active and more important agents.

Charcot has described, under the name of “ family maladies,” cer-
tain affections of the nervous system; they habitually attack a con-
siderable proportion of the same family (25 or 50 per cent). They
take similar form and a like evolution with each of the stricken
subjects. They appear among these persons as the result of taint
originally from a germ, becoming manifest through their develop-
ment and independent of all exterior action.

Since these first works of Charcot, the known number of diseases
with these characteristics has very much increased. Many family
affections are now known, not only of the nervous system but of all
organs of the body. These family maladies are transmitted in fami-
lies in the same manner as morphological characteristics; they are
inherited under the same laws as malformation, such as the sixth
digit, already mentioned. As to malformations, they may pertain
more particularly to certain countries, certain races, and certain
groups of people, and especially to groups of people isolated by their
geographical locations or by their matrimonial customs. There is
nothing strange in the way that these malformations are manifest,
for they are the result of veritable inherited malformations. Thus,
there is a family disease called “V’atrophie papillaire familiale,” and
which, with very few exceptions, attacks men only; the women of
these families are almost always exempt, and I will tell you to what
this happy privilege is due. The children of these families are born
normal and grow up full of health, but toward the age of 25 the
sight of some of them begins to weaken; if they consult.an ophthal-
mologist he discovers, after exploring the depth of the eye, an atrophy
of the central bundles of the optic nerve and, in spite of all that can
be done, that weakness progresses until there is almost a complete
loss of sight. One is led to believe that the disease comes from some
special physical defect—to an exaggerated narrowness of the cavity
where the optic nerve leaves the cranium. This cavity remains in a
fibro-cartilagenous condition during childhood; in men the ossifica-

tion of the circumference of the orifice is completed toward the age -

of 25; but in women it more often remains incomplete. The malady
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT. 403

is, then, the result of a gross, anatomical malformation. All family
diseases thus have for their origin an hereditary malformation, though
often it is not so easily revealed and is discovered only by micro-
scopically examining the inmost of the tissues. But in either case
it is a question of the transmission of a special defect, and there is
nothing wonderful in the fact that it is transmitted according to the
same laws as physical peculiarities.

There are other diseases inherited in an entirely different way. I
will commence with microbe diseases. In these diseases the affliction
which has stricken either the father or mother, or both, is transmitted
to the child through an entirely different process. It is really con-
tagion. In certain diseases the mother, carrying some deadly germ
(which she may or may not have received from the father of the
child), contaminates her child, before its birth. That is most usually
the case on the average. I do not insist upon it. These cases are
known as “heredity contagion.” Oftener still, the child is born safe
and sound, and it is only during the course of the first months or the
first few years that it is contaminated by one or the other of its
parents. It is apparent that it does not seem to be more than pure
heredity. Tuberculosis is like that. You know how tuberculosis
appears to be inherited. In your Red Cross dispensaries you find that
entire families are now and then decimated by tuberculosis; the
father or mother, or both, are ill with pulmonary tuberculosis; the
new-born children die of tuberculosis meningitis; if they escape that,
they show signs toward the fifth, tenth, or twelfth year of “ King’s
evil,” or tuberculosis of the glands; of Pott’s disease, osteotic tubercu-
losis of the vertebre; of coxalgia, arthritic tuberculosis of the hip,
etc.; and at last, during their youth, they succumb to pulmonary
tuberculosis. Such facts are unfortunately reported each day, and
we understand how belief in the inheritance of tuberculosis has per-
meated the mind. In reality heredity here plays only a restricted
role, as I will show you. The great secret in its spread is contagion.
A proof of it is that the disease is communicated just as easily to
persons who live with a tuberculosis family, though they have no re-
lation to it. Sometimes it is neither the father nor the mother who
is the souree of disease which has stricken their children successively,
but it may be a governess or a domestic affected with tuberculosis. I
once knew of a family free from tuberculosis where a young widow
returned to her father’s home after having been married a year to a
tuberculosis husband, from whom she had caught the germ of the
disease; she communicated it to her two young brothers, who died,
and then to her mother, who at present alone survives her three chil-
dren. One could relate innumerable instances of this kind. I do not
wish to say that heredity has nothing to do with tuberculosis. It in-
fluences more or less a resistance to the disease. In some families we
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

see certain forms of tuberculosis galloping from the start with such
rapid strides that no treatment can check them. Repeated contamina-
tion, colonies of bacilli that have crept in, certainly may be the cause
of it, yet it is believed that there exist some soils favorable through
heredity to the growth and spread of the bacilli. But if children of
tuberculous parents are protected as much as possible from. infection
of the bacilli, we have found that the disease has not developed in
them. My teacher, Grancher, believed this, and with that idea he
founded the “ Oeuvre ” for the protection of children against tubercu-
losis. That foundation takes children from homes where the sick
father or mother by coughing is spreading the bacilli; it raises these
children in peasant’s homes in chosen localities in the country. It is
demonstrated that these children show a much smaller proportion of
tuberculosis than the population taken as a whole.

In short, in the propagation of microbe diseases in families, hered-
ity, properly speaking, plays but a very limited role. The propaga-
tion of disease is due to contagion, heredity contagion for certain
diseases, but, more often still, common contagion, and this rule
applies particularly to tuberculosis.

I have to speak to you now of another deduction where the dis-
eases of parents may affect the condition of the child. When the
parents at the time of procreation are in a bad state of health they
give birth to children who have what has been called “ the defects
or scars of degeneracy.” This is not really inherited, for it shows
no resemblance between parents and children. On the contrary, the
children in these cases have strayed from the type of people to which
their parents belong; they develop abnormal characters, which show
that they are different from the usual conformation of their race
and species, and even that of the normal human being. This is the
literal significance of the word “ degeneracy.”

It is degeneracy, for example, which is seen in descendants of
drunkards. The question is really not one of heredity, but of pre-
cocious intoxication from a germ or, to state it better, from sexual
cells which are developed in a manner modified in their normal com-
position by alcoholic impregnation. Al] kinds of intoxication act
the same—intoxication from opium or morphine, the professional
intoxication from tobacco (from workmen in tobacco manufactories) ,
or from lead (workmen employed in the making of red or white
lead). A proof that intoxication from the germ is the cause of it
rather than heredity is that intoxications in youth show the same
result. Early alcoholism develops vices analogous to those due to
alcoholism in the parents; chronic microbe diseases succeed, like intox-
ication, in seriously affecting the internal life. Syphilis in the parents
(even when it has ceased to be contagious, which seems to prove that
the microbe is no longer the cause of it) may also produce “ degene-
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT. 405

rate scars ” upon the infants, and likewise cause serious infections of
youth, chronic gastroenteritis, “ athrepsia,” etc.

These facts show us that heredity only preserves its power when
the infant possesses normal conditions for its development identical
to those that their parents had. Otherwise the child ceases to re-
semble them; he is degenerate. This is opposed to inherited trans-
mission.

This distinction is important, and it becomes much more important
to dwell upon it since able authors do not appear to have found it
out. I have spoken to you of the excellent and very interesting work
of Mons. Galippi. Everything is perfect about it save the title.
Mons. Galippi has called it “ Hérédite des stigmates de dégénér-
escence et les Familles souveraines” (Heredity of the stigmas of
degeneracy and the royal families). Now he shows us a certain
conformation of the face transmitted by heredity, a similarity to one
another through many generations of the same line. It is the trans-
mission of a family characteristic; it is directly opposite to that
which transpires from the “stigmas of degeneracy.” These stigmas
momentarily separate some descendant from the normal family
type. If the distributing influence which has deviated these subjects
from the normal type ceases to act, their descendants return to the
normal type. We have seen this in certain groups of peoples sub-
jected to defective hygienic conditions; thus the malarial regions
of the Bresse, the Dombes, and the Landes were inhabited, before the
sanitary improvements were made, by a small-sized race, many of
whom had various malformations described under the name of stig-
mas of degeneracy (the registers for army service at the time show
this). From the time when these countries were made healthy by
draining the swamps, the new generations became of normal size
and now there are no more exemptions from military service for con-
stitutional defect in those cantons than in those places which have
never been touched by malaria. These facts are strictly analogous
to a very great degree to those seen in certain animal or vegetable
species. There exists (I mention this example among a thousand
others) a species of crow-foot which, when the seed sprouts in sub-
merged land, has lacinated leaves altogether different from the ordi-
nary leaves of the plant when grown in dry soil. If made to grow
in submerged land for a number of successive generations as long as
the experiment permits, and if the seeds are gathered at each genera-
tion, those seeds which were sowed in dry land would surely produce
full leaves without the number from the lacinated generations having
any influence. The lacinated state, then, is a condition of degen-
eracy which exists only when a cause provoking it exists. Heredity
plays no part in its propagation. It is important to distinguish
these facts from facts of heredity or they will become complicated.
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

This is one of the reasons why the observance of traits from heredity
is so difficult. They are complicated by the intervening of such
numerous disturbing elements that the laws of heredity can be estab-
lished only by experimenting on some cases simplified as much as
possible. That is what Mendel has done. Before showing you the
very simple and suggestive laws discovered by Mendel, I ought to tell
you in a word the work of the investigators who preceded him.

Naturally, I can give you only a brief and necessarily incomplete
sketch of this history.

About the middle of the last century there were many students
engaged in researches on heredity. Lucas published (1850) a book
entitled “ De V’hérédite ” (On Heredity), in which he showed that the
condition of the descendant results from the combination of two
factors: (1) “ Heredity,” which brings about a resemblance between
the subject and its parents and ancestors; (2) “ innéite” (inherent),
causing a dissimilarity. Thanks to the innate idea, we see in some
families certain members who show no characteristic peculiar to the
family. We now know that that theory is based on some deceitful
appearances explicable by disturbing causes of which I have given
you anexample. The doctrine of Lucas has been forgotten by savants
for a long time. If I have spoken to you about it, it is as a contem-
poraneous writer. Emile Zola has based upon it that great work of
the Rougon-Macquart; he has sought thus to give it a scientific
foundation; the unfortunate part is that before Zola had even com-
menced the publication of the first volume of that set of books other
authoritative articles had already brought out the weak and inac-
curate points of Lucas’s theory.

A great English investigator, Sir Francis Galton, has employed,
like Lucas, the direct method of observation in the study of acts of
heredity. He has carried it to a very high degree of perfection.
Thanks to some devoted cooperators, he has united a large number
of genealogical trees in noting the physical, intellectual, and moral
characteristics of all members in the family studied. A periodical
work, “ Biometrika,” published these articles. The results were
worked out in a special laboratory which is perpetuated under the
name of the Sir Francis Galton Eugenic Laboratory. In applying to
results thus accumulated the process of higher mathematics, Sir
Galton and his pupils have established an empiric law, the formula
of which, however, has changed. At first Galton showed that the
two ancestors of the first generation (father and mother) control
one-half in the heredity of a subject, each one being a quarter; then
the four ancestors of the second generation (grandparents) are
valued at a quarter in this heredity, one-sixth for each one; then the
eight ancestors of the third generation (great-grandparents) come in
for an eighth or a sixty-fourth for each one, etc. Subsequently,
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT. 407

Pearson, a pupil of Galton, saw that to agree with the reality, that
formula was exact and conformed to observations only if there was
made to intervene in each generation a corrective coefficient varying
from the rest according to the subjects and characters considered, the
corrective corresponding in total to the “innéite ” of Lucas. On the
whole, the “ biometric method” of Galton and Pearson, in spite of
the magnitude of their effort, led to such complicated formulas that
they were unprofitable in practice. Besides, they gave simply form-
ulas of a general term not at all applicable to a particular case con-
sidered independently of all other cases.

We are about to see that the formula of Mendel, which is much
more simple, explains the results empirically stated by Galton and
Pearson. The formulas of these last explain the proportion from the
results given by the laws of Mendel applied to the whole of an ex-
tended population.

Mendel’s laws are the foundation of the study of heredity to-day.
But we should not forget that the most important of these laws had
already been discovered by our compatriot, Naudin. Naudin, about
the middle of the last century, had undertaken the study of the phe-
nomena of hybridization, as Mendel had done, and had discovered
the phenomenal principles which a little later attracted Mendel’s
attention, particularly the resemblance of some hybrids to one of its
parents and the disassociation of characters in the descent. Naudin,
who was deaf, and therefore isolated by his infirmity, did not know
how to make the most of what his works merited, and it is to Mendel
that the glory of establishing the remarkable laws which deservedly
bear his name is given.

The fame of Mendel is of quite recent date; it has only been a few
years that the learned world has known his name; and now it is
already famous enough to have societies named for it (“Mendel
societies”) and a periodical (Mendel Journal) devoted exclusively
to drawing from the discoveries of Mendel the inferences which they
bear. This glory is tardy. It was in 1868 that Mendel published his
discovery, but it was ignored, and it was not until 1900 that the
Dutch naturalist de Vries brought out Mendel’s laws, and it was
not until then that the name of Mendel commenced to spread abroad.

Mendel was a monk in a convent of Moravia near Brinn. In his
leisure hours he devoted himself to the study of natural history and
cultivated a little garden where he hybridized sweet peas; it was
in this way that he discovered the laws of hybridization which he
published in a small local scientific paper, called “Bulletin de la
Reunion Scientifique de Briinn,”’ and they remained buried there.
After a time, Mendel was appointed superior of the convent; his
hew occupations prevented him from continuing his work, and he
died without knowledge of the fame which awaited him.
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Mendel noticed the fact that when two varieties of plants differing
in one characteristic only are crossed, the red or the white color of
the flower, for example, all the seeds obtained therefrom produce
in the first generation plants having red flowers only; if these
hybrid red plants are crossed with them, 75 to 100 per cent of red-
flowered plants and 25 to 100 per cent of plants with white flowers
will be obtained. If the stalks of the white flowers are afterwards
united, the red color would never appear; the stalks of the white
flowers reappeared in definite proportions in the descent from the
stems of the red flower united between them.

Mendel thought that the two characteristics, red coloring and
white coloring, both exist in the hybrids of the first generation,
but the red characteristic dominates the white and appears only
when they exist side by side. If we call “R” the red characteristic
and “B” the white characteristic, the formula for these hybrids is
R(B), the parenthesis denoting that (B) is latent, because it is
dominated. If a plant R(B) should be crossed with another plant
R(B), the two characteristics would disassociate themselves in the
pollen grains and in the ovules; half of the pollen grains contain
only R and a half contain only B; the same with the ovules; the 50
per cent of pollen grains R now unite half with ovules R, half with
ovules B; the fertilized ovules which result from the union have
now as a formula half RR, or 25 per cent and half R(B), or again
25 per cent. In the same way the 50 per cent of pollen grains B
unite half with ovules R and half with ovules B, and the fertilized
ovules which result from this have for a formula the half R(B) and
half BB, or 25 per cent R(B) and 25 per cent BB. The total is
95 RR, 50 R(B), and 25 BB. But the R(B) are red like the
RR and can not be distinguished from them. There are now 75
per cent of red. Unite them and the reds still give a certain pro-
portion of whites, which can be calculated for each generation under
the formulas of the law of probabilities. Without entering into the
detail of these formulas, understand that at the end of m generations
of unions between reds resulting from the first crossing, the white
being at each generation separated from the reproduction, we obtain
n?—1 stalks of red flowers for one stalk of white flowers. On the con-
trary, it is well understood that the stalks of white flowers BB united
with each other never produce anything but the stalks of white
flowers; they do not contain, either obviously or in any unseen way,
any red element.

Such is Mendel’s law. It is applicable not alone to the colors of
plants, but to all other living beings, animals, and vegetables, to all
simple characters, capable of producing two and two in varieties
differing only by single characters. This law is found in the union
of gray mice (dominant) with white mice (dominated), of normal
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT, 409

mice (dominant) with dancing mice, (dominated), in the union of
bay horses (dominating) and sorrel horses (dominated), in the
union of a single-comb hen (dominating) -with a double-comb hen
(dominated), etc., and finally in the human species. In the human
species verification of these laws can not, you understand, be carried
so far. Nevertheless, it seems to be an established fact that light
hair and blue eyes are dominated characters in the Mendel sense
opposing the black hair and eyes, which are dominating characters;
and one can, from that statement, infer from heredity the color of
hair and eyes, some conclusions which are being verified almost
constantly. In the same manner human albinos comport themselves
the same as the white albino mice, and in their union their descend-
ants obey the same laws. It is the same with many morphological
peculiarities, which conduct themselves some after the manner of
dominating characters and others after the manner of dominated
characters. In family diseases the morbid character is inherited in
certain diseases after the manner of dominating characteristics and
in other diseases after the manner of dominated characters. In a
word, Mendel’s law is very general, from the highest to the lowest
forms of life; it applies to a number of characters of varieties that
may proceed from morphological, physiological, or pathological
characters.

The discoveries of embryologists have made known how the mech-
anism of impregnation explains the Mendel law. By the combina-
tion of embryological discoveries and Mendel’s discoveries we can
state that the mystery of heredity has now ceased to be a mystery;
nature has raised for us a new fold of her veil.

You know that all living beings are formed from the aggregation
ef very numerous small living elements called cells. Each cell is
composed of a tiny mass of living matter, the protoplasm, in the
center of a more highly organized part, the “noyau.” All living be-
ings sprang primitively from a single cell, egg, or ovule. The
simplest of living beings remain all their lives formed of a single
cell and reproduce themselves by simple division into two, from
the cellular nucleus at first, and from the protoplasm mass later.
Heredity among these lower forms of life is explained very naturally,
since the two new beings are only, so to speak, a continuation of the
primitive being.

With beings a little more complicated, the cellular egg under-
goes successive divisions and produces a great number of cells, which
remain agglomerate, and the ensemble reproduces the morphology
peculiar to each species. A certain number of cells from the interior
of the body are alone susceptible of giving birth to new beings; they
constitute the eggs of the animal or the ovules of the vegetable.
Although other cells are differentiated, these reproductive cells have
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

remained identical to the primitive reproducing cell, the successive
divisions of which have led to the formation of the being in ques-
tion. Here, again, the explanation of heredity is not difficult. The
new reproductive cell is identical to the primitive cell. It is very
natural that its evolution should be identical to that of the last, on
one condition, however, that it finds, for its life and development,
conditions identical to those which the primitive cell found. Now,
these conditions exist for inferior beings; they live in the dense
ocean, which has a composition very nearly stable. If, however, the
conditions of development are artificially made to vary, either the
embryo dies, which is the most frequent contingency, or descend-
ants are obtained which differ from the parents by their irregu-
larities, veritable stigmas of degeneracy (analogous to those of the
descendants of human beings, the physicochemical composition of
whose internal organs, of the blood, has been changed by sickness
or intoxication, as the children of diseased or alcoholic parents, for
example).

Upon the whole, heredity is easily explained, as well as deviation
of heredity, as long as reproduction is a question of nonsexual beings,
which inherit their characters from a single parent, and not from two
at a time—the father and the mother.

As to the sexual reproduction of beings, the embryologist also gives
us some very satisfactory explanations which accord very nearly with
those which observations give us as to the manner of heredity trans-
mission, and places in a vivid light in particular the facts observed
by Mendel and his successors.

For sexually reproduced beings (we will speak, if you wish, only
of animals, but it is also the same with vegetable life) the egg—
that is, the primitive cell, the successive division of which will form
the new being—is constructed from the intimate fusion of two cells,
one of paternal, the other of maternal, origin, each one supplied from
a kernel. The particular point is the constitution of those sexual cells
from the kernel. Their ripening (that is, the moment from which
they are susceptible of blending with the cell from the opposite sex
to form the egg by that fusion) is marked by a curious phenomenon.
One half of their kernel is expelled; the kernel divides itself into two
with no special method; one of the halves reaches the pole of the cell
and forms what is called the polar globule; then it is expelled. Each
sexual element represents then a half cell, at least where the kernel
is concerned ; but it is the seed which is important in hereditary trans-
mission. Here is proof of it: The sexual feminine cell is very large,
containing in certain cases a thousand times more protoplasms than
the masculine cell, which is very small and reduced almost to a seed.
or, rather, a half seed. However, paternal heredity is not less power-
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—-APERT. 411

ful than maternal heredity; the origin from protoplasm carries very
little weight from the standpoint of heredity; what really matters is
the origin of the seed.

Since the seed is formed from two half seeds blended together, that
explains how it bears in it two hereditary characters at the same time,
as Mendel has shown. The Mendel formulas RR, RB, BB are, then,
in exact accord with that which the microscope reveals to us of the
embryological mechanism.

In showing you the Mendel laws we have supposed a simple case
in which the parents differ only in a single character, the coloration,
“R,” and the albinism, “B.” In reality there are a very great num-
ber of characters that make up the noyau, and each one is double
in each cell, as much from the father as from the mother. In the
cells from the father each double character is formed of an element
proceeding from the paternal grandfather and of an element pro-
ceeding from the paternal grandmother, one of the two being latent.
Then, from the expulsion of the polar globule one of the two ele-
ments of each character is expelled, and the expulsion bears by chance
on the elements coming from the paternal grandfather on the ele-
ments coming from the paternal grandmother. The same happens
in the mother’s cells. Finally the cellular egg permits of a very
great number of juxtaposition characters. The half comes from the
father, half from the mother, and half between them are latent.
But the proportions due to each of the grandparents are not fixed;
they are given up to chance by the expulsion of the polar globule,
and it is only when one considers the average results on a great num-
ber of subjects that the chances in an inverse sense balance each other
and you arrive at the law of Galton; that is to say, one-sixteenth com-
ing from each grandparent, one-sixty-fourth coming from each great-
grandfather, etc. One can compare the juxtaposition in the de-
scendant of the characters of paternal and maternal origin to a
double mosaic, each one formed from little blocks of marble, added
two by two; that which is under the corresponding block is the latent
character, the other is the dominant character species.

In the same animal species the design of the mosaic remains always
the same, but the matter of which each block is composed varies
according to the individual. Two brothers resemble each other, be-
cause the blocks selected to compose their mosaic are taken from the
two identical sources; but they resemble each other incompletely
because the chance which provides for the distribution of the blocks
proceeding from the grandparents and for the elimination of half of
each gives changeable results; the half of the blocks are eliminated,
and it is not always the same ones which are eliminated. It is, how-
ever, a case where the resemblance between the two brothers is strik-
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ing. It is the case of twin brothers called “ univitellins.” There are
twins called “ bivitellins,” who owe their origin to the development
of two eggs side by side; these do not resemble each other more than
two ordinary brothers. But there are also twins called “ univitel-
lins,” who owe their origin to the fact that a single egg is primitively
cut in two and each half has developed a complete being. Then the
identity is complete, and there is no more striking demonstration of
the power of heredity than to see these two beings, who are some-
times brought up under different conditions, who choose different
careers, and who, nevertheless, resemble each other so closely that
their families are apt to confound one with the other even up to
extreme old age. In these cases the mosaic is not only made on the
same design (as is the case with all beings of the same species), it is
not only formed from blocks taken at random, one half each from
two different sets and distributed at random, in two different stages,
but it is the same choice—I should say the same expulsion of the polar
globule—which has presided at the distribution of the blocks. It is,
as it were, a perfect replica of the same mosaic. You see, ladies, how
the knowledge of these laws and the mechanism of heredity explains
certain facts up to this time considered as unaccountable curiosities.

Tt is not alone in the interest of curiosity to understand the laws
of heredity. I have told you that certain diseases—family diseases—
are obedient to these laws in their transmission; that the physical,
intellectual, and moral faculties are inherited in the same way. The
knowledge of these laws permits the avoidance of certain dangers
that could result from certain unions. Up to the present time doc-
tors are contented with dissuading in a general and vague way from
a union with families where one of its members might have shown
a physical, psychical, or pathological defect (but what family is
entirely exempt from it), and to proscribe all consanguineous unions.
Henceforth the prohibitions should be more precise and more clearly
stated, and, on the other hand, permits which would have terrified
the ancients should be given without any hesitation. Studies of this
kind are but just beginning. Some influential societies have been
formed in other countries for the study of this subject; in England
and the United States they have become of great importance. In
France La Société Francaise d’Eugénique was very recently organ-
ized. The results already obtained from these efforts are most
encouraging.

In closing this lecture I wish to call special attention to certain
conclusions of practical importance.

First. In microbic diseases, and especially in tuberculosis, heredity
is far from being fatal. One can hardly say that children of tuber-
culous parents inherit from a soil favorable to the development
PROBLEMS OF HEREDITY—APERT. 413

of the bacillus. If care be taken to avoid contact with persons who
are suffering from the disease, they will have a good chance to escape
the terrible scourge.

Second. Aside from the diseases from microbes, there are other
disorders, notably hereditary, known as family diseases. And here,
also, up to a certain point, the perpetuation of the disease may be
avoided by binding oneself to certain strict rules. Each of these
diseases has its own method of hereditary propagation, and knowl-
edge of this method indicates the unions which the laws of heredity
prohibit.

Third. Physical, intellectual, and moral faculties are likewise in-
herited under the same well-defined laws. But they are not fixed
in the descent, as when their heredity is bilateral.

Fourth. Great efforts are being made at this time to perfect and
extend the studies relating to heredity; societies and eugenic labora-
tories are being founded. We can hope that these efforts will show
us the way to secure amelioration for the generations to come, and
a lessening of congenital defects, the frequency of which weighs so
heavily upon poor humanity.
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS.

By A. S. PEARSE,

University of Wisconsin.

Fiddler crabs are of unusual interest on account of their striking
sexual dimorphism. The male bears an enormous claw on one side
of the body which is in striking contrast to its feeble mate on the
opposite side, while the female has two little chelipeds like the small
claw of the male. Since the time of Darwin (1874) these crustaceans
have been believed to furnish evidence of sexual selection. The great
claw and bright coloration of the male differ markedly from the com-
paratively dull dress and small bilaterally symmetrical chelipeds of
the female. Alcock (1892, 1900, 1902) is convinced that (1900, p. 351) :

In one species, at any rate (Geladsimus annulipes), the males, which are

greatly in excess of the females, use the big and beautifully colored cheliped ,
not only for fighting with each other, but also for “ calling” the females.

Fic. 1.—UCA PUGNAX, MALES AND FEMALES. Woods Hole, Mass,

According to the same writer (1892), Milne-Edwards describes a
South American species, in which the male and female lived together
in a single burrow, the former closing the domicile with his large
chela. But Calman (1911) is apparently not convinced that the
uses of the great chela of male fiddlers has been demonstrated, for he
says (p. 106):

What the precise use of this enormous claw may be does not seem to be quite
certainly known. It is said to be used as a weapon by the males in fighting
with one another, but it seems too clumsy to be very efficient for this purpose.
It is often brilliantly colored, and has been supposed to be a sexual adornment.

The writer was first attracted to the study of the fiddlers by the
great colonies of gaudy species which swarm along the beaches of the

415
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

coves and estuaries of Manila Bay. Later experiments were con-
ducted on the coast of Massachusetts, and these were supplemented
by observations in the estuaries and mangrove swamps near Santa
Marta, Colombia. Altogether 13 species have been watched with
considerable care, and their behavior has been similar in all essential

respects.
GENERAL HABITS.

Fiddler crabs are diurnal. Other crustaceans (7halassina, Cardio-
soma) which inhabit the ocean beaches with them may be found at
night if their haunts are visited, and they often stupidly sit in great
numbers, dazed by the glare of a light, but fiddlers retire when the
sun goes down and remain in the bottoms of their burrows until
morning. Fiddlers are said to be sometimes active on moonlight
nights, but, at any rate, a certain amount of light is necessary to
bring them from their burrows. Prof. Holmes (1908) found that
Uca pugnax was strongly positively phototropic when tested under
laboratory conditions.

Different species of fiddlers often select the exact habitat, in which
they are accustomed to dwell with great nicety. On the coast of
Massachusetts two species live on the same beaches, but Uca pugnax
usually digs its holes in mud, while U. pugilator prefers sand. In
the Philippines this specificity of habitat gives rise to fiddler zones
along the populous margins of the esteros:' (1) High along the edge
of the shore Uca forcipata is found; (2) this zone grades into one of
U.. rathbunae just below, and is followed by (8) another in the softer
mud of the deeper parts of the estero, peopled by U. marionis and
U. marionis nitida. On the shores of Colombia U’. mordaz is found
in the clay near the mouths of rivers, and is also abundant with UV.
minax in the soft mud among the roots in mangrove swamps.

In addition to their diurnal habits and discrimination in the selec-
tion of sites for their burrows, fiddlers exhibit a third striking pe-
culiarity in their reactions to tidal changes. Countless individuals
are seen on the mud flats at low tide, and active feeding is carried on
then. The same is true when the tide is rising or falling. When
the ocean threatens to cover the mouth of a burrow, however, a plug
of mud is carried to the hole and drawn down after the owner in such
a way as to shut him inside. During a period of high tides burrows
in low situations often remain closed for several days; during low
tides those on higher ground may be left open’ day after day, though
the flats dry out to such an extent that crabs can not feed easily and
remain at the bottoms of their burrows.

1 Estuaries.
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS——-PEARSE, 417
BURROWS.

In excavating her burrow a female fiddler digs with the walking
legs of either side. After a piece of mud has been pried loose by
working under it with the legs, it is carried to the mouth of the hole

Fig. 2.—UCA RATHBUNAE CARRYING A LOAD FROM HER BURROW.
Drawn by Tom Jones from a photograph.

and deposited outside (fig. 2). The males do not use the big chela
in digging or in carrying dirt, but work much like the females.
They gouge out mud with the walking legs and usually carry it with

Fic. 3.—UcA RATHBUNAE. MALE GOUGING A PLUG FROM THE MUD WITH
WHICH TO CLOSE HIS BURROW.
Drawn by Hattie Wakeman from a photograph.

the first three legs on the side of the body bearing the small chela.
Rarely they may be seen awkwardly carrying a load in the two walk-
ing legs just behind the great chela,

44863°—smM 1913 27

418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

Usually the excavated dirt is carried to a particular spot several
inches from the mouth of the burrow and placed in a neat pile. The
speed of excavation varies considerably, but the average time between
loads is usually from half
a minute to three minutes
when a crab is working
steadily.

As. has been stated,
nearly every burrow is
closed by means of a tem-

= tie porary earthern doorway
eee when the tide comes in.
Fic. 4.—A FIDDLER CRAB CLOSING ITS BURROW BY Often the mouth of a hole
PULLING DOWN A DISK OF MUD. is prepared by bringing in

Drawn by Tom Jones. i i
a bit or two of dirt from

outside or by carrying up some mud from below. Such masses are
plastered around the mouth of the burrow and smoothed over to
make the opening more nearly circular. When all is ready the crab
goes a little way off and secures a disk of stiff mud (fig. 3) which he
carries back to his hole.
This plug he draws down
in’ such a way that the
mouth of the burrow is
neatly and completely
closed (fig. 4). When the
mud on the beach is too soft
to make a suitable plug,
mud is pushed up from
inside the burrow so as to
close it or the legs are pro-
truded a little and the
opening nearly closed by
pulling at the soft mud
(fig. 5) until the small re-
maining aperture can be
easily plugged by pushing
up material from below.
When a fiddler wishes to
open a burrow that has
been sealed, he usually pulls
the door down into the hole,
where it is left.

Fiddlers seem to feel that the necessity for having their burrows
closed when the tide comes in is very urgent. Once in Massachusetts
I pulled up all the grass on a thickly populated area about 6 feet

Fig. 5.—SHOWING HOW A BURROW IS CLOSED FROM INSIDE.
Drawn by Tom Jones.
HABITS OF FIDDLEK CRABS—PEARSE. 419

square and chased all the crabs into their holes. Then I sat in front
of this open space while the tide covered the mouths of the burrows.
Though the crabs were timid and apparently feared me, several. of
them rushed out when the water came near and, after hastily grab-
bing one or more pellets of mud, plugged their holes.

Fiddlers are very cleanly in their habits, and may often be seen
scraping themselves with the small chelipeds or with the walking
legs when dirt has accumulated on any part of the body. They are
particularly careful of the eyes and eyestalks, and these organs are
often folded into their sockets to be cleaned. Mud or débris is not
allowed to accumulate about the mouths of the burrows. Fiddlers
are often seen moving such matter to some little distance, where it
is cast aside or pushed down the holes of other crabs.

Crabs of either sex move sideways when entering the burrow, and
the males usually have the large chela uppermost as they disappear.
The holes are, as a rule, of uniform diameter, though they may be
slightly enlarged at the bottom, and often turn so as to take a hori-
zontal direction. They vary in depth from about 16 to 75 cen-
timeters, and usually have water standing in the deeper parts, even

when the tide is out.
PLACE ASSOCIATION.

A fiddler usually does not wander more than a meter or two from his
hole, and is ever ready to dart into it at the slightest provocation.
Occasionally, however, a crab roves as much as 12 meters from his
home and returns. Once in the Philippines a Uca marionis nitida left
its burrow and dug a new one 4.5 meters away; another individual
moved his dwelling place 2.4 meters; but such cases were unusual.
Most crabs showed a strong preference for a particular locality.
Place association is also manifest when fiddlers carry mud from their
burrows. Successive loads are not cast aside anywhere, but are usu-
ally carried to a particular spot and laid in a pile.

A number of crabs were snared and moved various distances from
their holes to see if they would return. If the space was less than
2 meters, they usually came back at once. At greater distances some
crabs dug new holes and reestablished themselves, even though they
were in plain sight of their old homes; others tried to return home,
and were not able to do so, It is by no means easy for a strange
fiddler to make his way through a densely populated portion of a
colony. He is set upon by every crab whose hole he approaches, and
may lose his claw or even his life in such an engagement. An indi-
vidual put down in strange surroundings acts shy and timid, Not-
withstanding the difficulties, however, some crabs returned after sev-
eral days to the hole they had previously occupied. One individual
was moved 6 meters, and returned after 23 days to within 30 centime-
ters of his old home, which had been filled up by the tides in the
meantime,
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,
FEEDING.

Female fiddler crabs feed by scooping up mud with the hairy
spoonlike fingers of the chelipeds and carrying it to the mouth, the
two hands alternating rapidly. The males use only the small cheli-
ped when feeding. The feeding appendages are well suited for the
work they have to do. Their fingers are flattened and hollowed in
such a way that they form admirable dredges for carrying mud to
the mouth. Crabs seldom try to feed when the flats are dry and
are most active when the tide is falling. The mouth parts sort over
the mud which is scooped up and a mass of rejected material collects
below them to drip down or be wiped away now and then by a
cheliped.

Fig. 6.—MALE FIDDLERS FIGHTING.
Drawn by Tom Jones.

An examination of the stomachs of several fiddlers showed that
the diet is largely vegetarian. The food consists mostly of small
alge sifted from the mud. But fiddlers, like most crabs, will eat
nearly anything that is cast upon the beach—dead fish, dead crabs,
plants, ete.

DEFENSE AND OFFENSE.

A fiddler crab lives on a beach crowded among vast numbers of
his fellows, but his intercourse with them shows no development of
social instincts. He has selected his most suitable habitat, and the
fact that he is surrounded by hundreds or thousands of his own kind
is more or less incidental. Each fiddler searches the mud around his
hole for food, and “ his hand is against every man.” He-is ever ready
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS——PEARSE. 421

to dart into his burrow, and if danger threatens he quickly retreats
to this refuge. If one of his fellows encroaches on his domain, how-
ever, he rushes forth and enters into fierce combat. Each crab makes
his hole the center from which his activities are conducted, and he
treats the approach of any intruder as an unfriendly act.

Though combats between two males are most frequent, males some-
times fight with females, and members of the weaker sex not in-
frequently struggle with each other. If two males that differ
markedly in size fight, the larger combatant usually takes little
interest in the fight and soon makes off, even though he may be hotly
pursued by his smaller antagonist. When a smaller fiddler trespasses
on a larger crab’s territory, however, he is soon chased away. The
most spirited combats are between males of the same species.

In fighting (fig. 6), the males face each other and often dance
about excitedly, at the same time frantically waving the small chela.

-o.

SH
Se ROT ct:
ws ee

X

Fic. 7.—FIDDLERS DEFENDING THEIR BURROWS.
Drawn by Tom Jones.

The large chele are locked together, like two men shaking hands,
and each contestant attempts to break off his opponent’s claw by a
a sudden wrench. The strain is so great that when one of the
fighters loosens his hold rather than lose his claw, he is often thrown
backward into the air, sometimes as much as a meter. The writer
has never seen the great chela used as a club in fighting, as Alcock
(1892, p. 416) maintains, but it often serves as a shield to ward off
a thrust. Ifa male gets the worst of an encounter, he frequently
retreats into his burrow and guards it by extending his claw from
the opening. (Fig. 7.) Sometimes one male catches another nap-
ping and enters his burrow. In such cases the owner waits nervously
about until the intruder comes out and then chases him away, or he
boldly goes down after the intruder with his large chela extended
before him and usually emerges soon after followed by the intruder.
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
PLAY.

Some of the activities of fiddlers are like those displayed by higher
animals while at play. Crabs frequently dart about without a
serious purpose, and are sometimes downright mischievous. On
one occasion a male was half-heartedly pursuing a female. She went
to her burrow, secured a plug nearby, and shut herself in. The
male then came directly to the burrow, seized the plug, and cast it
to one side. The female was just emerging from her burrow when
the writer ended the episode by frightening the participants by a
sudden movement. Another time two males of medium size were

seen running about for perhaps half an hour over an area about 12 —

meters in diameter. They kept close together and acted like two
mischievous sailors ashore. The tide was coming in rapidly, and in
their rambles the pair came to a place where a large, slow-moving
crab was carrying a plug to close his burrow. The pair waited
until the plug had been pulled down, then one of them went to the
hole and removed it; as the outraged owner emerged they scuttled
away. To all appearances activities like those just described were
carried out in a spirit of “sport.”

MATING.

During the mating season a fiddler-crab colony is an interesting
place. If a female walks across the mud every male stands at the
mouth of his hole and waves his big claw frantically up and down,
often accentuating such movements by squatting and stretching with
his walking legs. (Fig. 8.) Ifa female approaches he makes every
effort to induce her to enter his burrow, frequently dancing or pos-
turing before her.

A courtship will be described, which was observed at North Fal-
mouth, Mass., July 11, 1912. The male waved, and at 12.17 p. m.
the object of his attention approached and went part way into his
burrow. He rushed up and tried to push her in, but she resisted.
He then retired 3 inches and stood motionless for three minutes with
his claw outstretched in front, then sneaked up and again tried to
push his prospective mate into the burrow. She again resisted, he
retired, and both were quiet for two minutes. The male then ap-
proached cautiously and stood motionless with upraised chela close
to the female for three and a half minutes; then he again attempted
to push her down, but without success. He then raised his claw and
standing high on his legs assumed a statuesque pose which he held for
10 minutes (I took his picture, fig. 9). The female, meanwhile, fed
a little, moved away a couple of inches, then went part way down
the hole. When the male again approached, she dodged, but came
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS—PEARSE. 423

back and entered the hole. The male stood over her for more than a
minute, She dodged away, again came back, and the male stood over
her again. At 12.42 he went to one side of the burrow, she to the
other; and they stood thus for four minutes. At 12.46 the female
moved away an inch, at 12.52 the male dodged quickly into his
burrow, and the female went up to him, but a minute later she
moved away several feet and finally went elsewhere. The male,

SS

S

Fic. 8.—UCA PUGILATOR, MALE WAVING HIS GREAT CLAW TO ATTRACT THE
ATTENTION OF A FEMALE.
Drawn by Hattie Wakeman from a photograph at West Fal-
mouth, Mass.
however, was soon consoled, for at 1.02 p. m., he was standing at the
mouth of his hole waving at another female.

The male made no attempt to use his great chela in holding the
female. After his first rush he had every appearance of proceeding
with great caution—as if he feared a too arduous wooing might cause
his prospective mate to leave. After every repulse he retired a little
way and displayed his charms for a time before making another
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

advance. Apparently he was attempting, as Chidester (1912) says,
to “ demonstrate his maleness.” In the Philippines crabs were often
seen standing motionless with outstretched claw for as much as
20 minutes. (Fig. 10.) Perhaps such individuals were looking
for a mate.

Fig. 9.—UcCA PUGILATOR, MALE IN COURTING ATTITUDH BEFORE A FEMALD.
Drawn by Hattie Wakeman from a photograph taken at West Falmouth, Mass.,
July 11, 1912.

Probably fiddlers copulate in the burrows of the males, but they
have never been seen to do so. Experiments have been conducted in
the laboratory, however, in which the mating activities were ob-
served. Jelly glasses were filled with clean water to a depth of about
an inch; a male and female were then placed together in each. Sey-

Fig. 10.—UcA FORCIPATA STANDING AT ATTENTION,
Drawn by Tom Jones from a photograph,

eral copulations were observed under such conditions. In no case did
a male use his great chela in manipulating or holding the female,
and that organ was not used as a “ nuptial couch,” as some have sup-
posed it would be. A figure has been published elsewhere (Pearse,
1914), which shows the position assumed during copulation.
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS——PEARSE. 425
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

_ Fiddlers treat other animals with suspicion. Any large moving
object causes them to retreat at once to their burrows, although they
soon emerge again if the object is not near at hand. Most crabs re-
treat into their holes when a man approaches within 15 meters, but if
one is careful not to make any quick movements he may sit apparently
unnoticed within a couple of yards of an active fiddler for hours at a
time. Large adult crabs like Sesarma bidens are avoided, but small
crustaceans of any species are at once attacked. Any strange animal,
however small, is avoided; the writer once saw a small hermit crab,
by moving quickly along the edge of the rising tide, cause every
fiddler near to run for its hole. The fiddler’s burrow furnishes a re-
treat from many enemies, and his speedy reaction toward it in re-
sponse to all movements in his field of vision would help protect him
from the herons, snakes, skinks, frogs, toads, and fishes that com-
monly hunt along the shores of the estuaries.

In reacting to its surroundings a fiddler crab apparently uses its
senses of sight and touch most, although the recognition of chemical
substances may be important in securing and selecting food. The
eyes are very quick to note any movement in the landscape; they are
held straight upward, except when their stalks are being cleaned or
when a crab is entering a burrow. Feeding probably depends mostly
upon the tactile and chemical senses, for the usual position of the
eyes is such that the small chele can not be seen as they pass food
to the mouth. Such loud noises as whistling, hand clapping, gun-
shots, and locomotive whistles produced no apparent reaction from
the fiddlers, nor did the stridulation of the large decapod, T’halassina
anomala (Herbst), that builds its burrows among them in the
Philippines.

Although fiddler crabs live together in enormous colonies, they
show no cooperation with one another, nor do they manifest any
tendency toward such communal existence as that displayed by some
other arthropods; for example, ants, bees, wasps, and termites. In
this they agree with other crustaceans, for, though the animals of
this class exhibit an endless variety of structural adaptations suited
to various habitats and modes of life, none of them has taken advan-
tage of the opportunities offered by a cooperative communal associa-
tion among members of the same species (except in some instances
‘in which the male is intimately associated with the female). Al-
though the females of many species carry their eggs and newly
hatched young for a time, the association of the young with their
mother is nominal, for she never feeds or cares for them. The strug-
gle for existence is nowhere more apparent than in the midst of a
fiddler crab colony. Each individual jealously guards the area about
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

his own burrow and immediately attacks any invader of this terri-
tory. His pugnacity is ever ready to show itself against his fellows
that swarm about him and against numerous competitors of other
kinds that also seek to eke out an existence from the area he has
chosen for his own.

The fiddler’s chief competitors for the food on the beaches are
other species of crabs, various smaller animals such as snails and
worms, and some larger animals like fishes and birds. In addition
to honest competition the fiddler must reckon with some larger ani-
mals, which seek not his food but himself. Among these the rac-
coons, herons, snakes, skinks, frogs, toads, and fishes are most
important.

The behavior of the fiddler is admirably suited to enable him to
gain a livelihood and at the same time escape injury or death from
his enemies. His aggressive attitude toward members of his own
genus and toward other crabs of similar size keeps enough space clear
about his burrow to enable him to sift his simple diet. from the mud
in comparative safety. Furthermore, the way is thus left clear for
retreat to his burrow if danger threatens, and the fiddler is not slow
in dodging into his hole as soon as any strange or threatening object
moves within his field of vision. His burrow is the center of all his
activities, and his association for the place where it is situated is
very strong. Fiddlers are protected from night prowlers by their
diurnal habits, and they escape the fishes and snakes that hunt at
the edge of the advancing tide by closing the openings of their bur-
rows when the water threatens to inundate them.

Although the majority of the reactions of fiddler crabs are stereo-
typed and appear to be instinctive, yet they are open to some modi-
fication. The daily life of a fiddler is more or less of a routine—to
dig a burrow, to seek food as long as the territory about his burrow is
clear, to attack small aggressors, to retreat from large enemies, to
plug the burrow when the tide comes in, to open it when the water
recedes, to retire during darkness, and to mate at the proper season.
These are his ordinary activities, and they depend largely upon
unvaried reactions. Some instincts are so strong that, although
usually advantageous, they may be harmful; for example, place asso-
ciation and instinct to retire into her hole was strong enough to cause
a certain crab to remain for some time in danger when the burrow
could not be entered and she might have escaped by running away.
Nevertheless, a fiddler shows some ability to modify his reactions to
suit circumstances, such as departing from his usual method of car-
rying mud from his burrow, using different ways to plug the burrow,
and in some other activities.

A fiddler crab is able to establish a place association for a certain
locality and to retain it for as long as three weeks. Some activities
HABITS OF FIDDLER CRABS-—PEARSE. 427

might be interpreted as manifestations of a desire to play. The in-
stinct to fight males of his own species and size is very strong in a
fiddler, yet this instinct is more than a “ fighting reflex,” for he is
slow to resent an attack by a smaller male.

Concerning the structural differences between the sexes, it may be
affirmed that the great chela of the male does not serve for burrow-
ing or feeding. In fact, it is rather a disadvantage in either of these
activities, The great chela closes the burrow inasmuch as it fills the
opening as a weapon of offense, but is not used as a lid or stopper.
It is of no advantage during actual mating, but unquestionably
serves as a signal which is waved to attract the attention of females.
The great chela is of undoubted use to the male in combats with his
fellows and in defending himself from other enemies. In this respect
it is comparable to the secondary sexual characters of some other male
animals, such as the stag’s antlers, the cock’s spurs, and the tusks of
the walrus. Among higher animals in which the males possess such
aggressive organs, however, the females are protected and cared for
to some extent, but nothing of this sort is known among decapod
crustaceans with secondary sexual adaptations (Uca, Alpheus, and
others). Thus, although many of the crustacea have two adaptations
which might fit them for colonial life—through the mother carrying
her eggs and young for a time, thus having opportunity to start a
colony with them, and through the aggressive adaptations of the
males, which might enable stronger individuals of that sex to gather
a number of females about them—their instincts have prevented
them from developing it.

Alcock (1892) believes “no one can doubt that the claw of a male
has become conspicuous and beautiful in order to attract the female,”
and that “it is used as a signal to charm and allure the females.”
Though there are perhaps such minor objections to such a statement
of the case, it is certain that male fiddlers do wave their claws, dance,
and pose in the presence of females. It must be admitted, also, that,
though bright colors occur on other parts of the bodies of both sexes,
the great chela are always colored so that it is conspicuous. At pres-
ent it is not possible to state just what part specific colors may
play in attracting the females of particular species. The problem
should be studied during the active mating season with special refer-
ence to color. By observing the coloration of males actually chosen,
by painting the chele of rejected suitors, by “ waving ” colored mock
chele, or by other tests, a definite conclusion could doubtless be
reached. Until such experiments have been made it can hardly be
affirmed that fiddler crabs show the operation of sexual selection
through color discrimination.
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.
ALCOCK, A.:

1892. On the Habits of Gelasimus annulipes Edw. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.
(1892) VI, 10: 415, 416.

1900. XVI. Materials for a Carcinological Fauna of India. No. 6. The
Brachyura Catometopa, or Grapsoidea. Journ. & Proc. Asiat. Soc. Bengal
(1900), 9 (2) : 279-856.

1902. A Naturalist in Indian Seas. London, xxiv+328, 98 figs., 1 map.

CALMAN, W. T.:
1911. The Life of Crustacea. New York, xvii & 289.
CHIDESTER, F. E.:
1912. The Mating Habits of Four Species of Brachyura. Biol. Bull.,
21 : 235-248.
DARWIN, C.:
1874. Descent of Man. 2d ed., London, 672.
Houmss, S. J.:

1908. Phototaxis in Fiddler Crabs and its Relation to Theories of Orienta-

tion. Jour. Comp. Neurol., 18, 493-497.
PEARSE, A. S.:

1912. The Habits of Fiddler Crabs. Philippine Journal Sci. (2, D), 7:
113-133.

1914. On the Habits of Uca pugnax (Smith) and U. pugilator (Bosc).
Wisconsin Acad. Sci., Arts & Let., 17: 791-802.
THE ABALONES OF CALIFORNIA.

By Professor CHARLES LINCOLN EDWARDS.

Medical Department, the University of Southern California, Assistant, Cali-
fornia Fish and Game Commission.

[With 10 plates. ]

The abalone belongs to a family of marine snails, the Haliotidee,
which has many representatives in the waters about Africa, India,
Japan, and the neighboring islands. Six species and one variety
have been described from the Pacific coast of North America, but
none from the Atlantic coast. Under the name of ormers, sea-ears,
or ear-shells, this gastropod occurs on the coast of France and among
the Channel Islands, but the species are most abundant in tropical
and semitropical regions.

The abalone is of importance because of its beautiful shell, polished
as an ornament, or manufactured into many kinds of novelties and
jewelry. Gleaming with the iridescence of the rainbow and the
aurora this lovely shell is fit to be the chalice of Eos. Pearls may be
secreted around foreign particles accidentally, or designedly, intro-
duced between the mantle and the nacreous layer of the shell. The
mollusk Pholadidea may bore through the shell and cause the forma-
tion of the blister-pearl, or we may bring about the same result by
inserting a prepared form. Then the meat, either fresh or dried, is
of much food value.

Inthe commercial fishery of abalones, one or more crews are em-
ployed, generally made up of Japanese, but sometimes of Chinese or
American fishermen. The boat containing a crew is either rowed, or
driven by motor, from the camp to the fishing grounds. The crew
consists of the diver and his 6 assistants. When over the right bot-
tom the diver is clothed with his suit, the helmet screwed upon the
brass collar, the heavy lead breast and back weights adjusted, and the
air pump manned. One man takes the diver’s signal rope, another
the hose from the air pump, and the diver, with a net attached to a
rope and his shucking chisel in hand, is assisted over the side, climbs
down the short ladder, and drops through the water to the bottom.

1 Reprinted by permission from The Popular Science Monthly, June, 1913,
; 429
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

If he finds the abalones plentiful, work is continued in depths of from
20 to 65 feet, in four-hour shifts. The man on the boat with the
signal rope in hand follows the course of the diver by the constant
stream of air bubbles rising to the surface. When the kelp is thick
one man has a knife on a long pole with which he cuts the seaweed
and keeps the air tube clear.

The diver finds it an easy task to detach the abalone from the rock
if he pushes the shucking chisel under the expanded foot before the
animal is alarmed. If, however, the diver hesitates and the abalone
contracts its muscular foot a powerful pressure is exerted. One or
two cases have been reported of the drowning of Chinese fishermen
who have had their hands caught by the abalone and thus held until
overcome by the rising tide. The diver secures a net full of abalones,
gives the signal, and the mollusks are hoisted aboard and stowed
below. The net, filled with about 50 green and corrugated abalones
may be hauled up every six or seven minutes. During his shift
below the diver gathers from 30 to 40 basketfuls, each containing 100
pounds of meat and shell, or altogether 13 to 2 tons.

At Santa Catalina Island, and later at San Clemente Island, in
company with a Japanese diver, I donned a diving dress for sub-
marine exploration. On one occasion the assistant failed to tighten
the waist belt which is designed to keep the air in the upper part of
the diving dress. The men at the pump worked with especial as-
siduity, and as I dropped off the ladder the inflated rubber trousers
turned my feet uppermost. Head down I went through 65 feet of
water, and then, not in a position for quiet reflection, remained some
moments before the Japanese assistants concluded that my signals
were not being made just for the fun of it. After being pulled to
the surface, reversed and relieved of inferior inflation, a successful
descent was made. The submarine journey is a wonderful experience.
The bottom of the sea seems made of grains of gold and silver, shim-
mering in the penetrating sunlight. Upon the face of a precipice,
large specimens of the green and corrugated abalones rest. The shell
of each is covered with a luxuriant growth of alge, hydroids, and
tentacled tube worms, which mask the creature from its enemies. AI]
about are large fish which swim close and peer through the glass win-
dow of the helmet. An enormous sting-ray indifferently floats by.
One has a fellow feeling with these unfrighted denizens of the deep
in the fascination of observing their behavior under natural con-
ditions.

In gathering abalones sometimes a crew is composed of six divers,
who work without suits up to a depth of 20 feet, and some of them
remain under water for as long as two minutes.: These expert swim-
mers protect their eyes with glasses and wear cotton in their ears.
They pry off the abalones with a shucking chisel, often filling their
- ABALONES OF CALIFORNIA—EDWARDS. A431

arms on the way to the boat. Every two hours they return to the
launch to be warmed at the fire. It takes the united efforts of these
six men to equal the catch of one diver in a suit.

The abalone has a well-developed head and a powerful, adhesive,
creeping foot. The shell is flattened, and the spire, which is such a
prominent conical structure in most snail shells, is depressed and
inconspicuous in this form. The last greatly enlarged whorl contains
the body, especially characterized by the enormous columellar muscle,
whose fibers run from their origin upon the muscle scar, or center of
the shell, into the foot. Numerous contractile tentacles arise from
the fringed epipodial fold, or ruff, around the base of the foot. The
gills, alimentary system, reproductive glands, kidneys, heart, and
blood vessels and the pallial and visceral sections of the nervous
system lie to the left of and behind the columellar muscle and foot.
From the mouth cavity the gullet leads backward to the enlarged
stomach, which is divided into two compartments, and receives the
digestive juices from the large digestive gland at the hind end of the
body. Two pairs of salivary glands pour their secretions into the
buccal cavity. The intestine runs anteriorly to the side of the head,
there turns on itself, and proceeds back to the stomach, where it again
goes forwardypassing through the ventricle of the heart, to terminate
in the anus, which opens into the gill cavity. The shell is perforated
toward the left by a series of openings lying above a slit in the mantle
fold leading into the gill cavity, whence issues a stream bearing the
excrement, respiratory, and excretory wastes. Three tentacular proc-
esses from the edges of the mantle cleft project through these holes.
As the animal grows the apertures/in the shell behind the respiratory
cavity are closed up and new ones are formed at the anterior edge.

The head terminates in a short snout, on either side of which is a
somewhat slender olfactory tentacle, and slightly lateral to this a
shorter and broader optic tentacle. Two elongated ganglia lying
above the mouth cavity may be called the brain, because they form
the center for nerves from the eyes, olfactory tentacles, snout, lips,
and other parts of the head. The eye is a simple cup-shaped depres-
sion of the epithelium on the end of the tentacle. The cup is filled
with a gelatinous lens and it has clear and pigmented retinal cells
connected with fibrils from the optic nerve. The shadow of a hand
passing over the abalone in an aquarium causes the animal to con-
tract the head end of the body. Hence the abalone differentiates
various intensities of light, and thus possesses a primitive sense of
sight. The contractile tentacles running out in every direction from
the ruff are end organs of touch. Each has a nerve connected with
either the right or left pedal cord. These two centers of innervation
run through the middle of the foot for the greater part of its length
and are connected by cross fibers. They not only receive stimuli
432 ANNUAL REPOkT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

from the sense organs of the ruff, but govern the multitude of muscle
fibers which form the foot.

Scattered all over the exposed parts of the body are long spindle-
shaped cells which may respond to such mechanical and chemical
stimuli as to make of them indefinite end organs of touch and smell.
In the floor of the mantle cavity a water-testing sense organ, the
osphradium, extends along the base of each gill. The cells of this
simple end-organ are chemically stimulated in such manner that the
abalone has sensations of smell, warning it to shut off the incurrent
water when foul or containing some poisonous matter.

If a piece of kelp is held motionless in front of the body, the ani-
mal soon responds by reaching out the cleft anterior portion of the
foot. These fingerlike processes grasp the seaweed and pull it back
beneath the mouth and foot, where it is firmly held. Cells in the
mucous lining of the mouth cavity are stimulated so that the animal
gets the sensation of taste. Covering the tongue is a long horny,
filelike structure, the radula, with many thousands of chitinous teeth
symmetrically arranged in transverse and longitudinal rows. The
teeth are pointed backward, and as the tongue is thrust out and drawn
in the radula rasps a hole in the succulent kelp, carrying the frag-
ments of food to the opening of the gullet. Two chitingus jaws, one
at either side within the mouth, but united in the midline, serve as
scrapers to hold back in the mouth cavity the particles of food ad-
hering to the radula. This method of feeding abalones individually
by hand is of importance in easily caring for the animals in confine-
ment in aquaria or in inclosed pools or live boxes in marine farming.

As food the abalone is one of the best of our marine mollusks. De-
tached from the shell, the visceral mass and mantle fringe are
trimmed off from the large central muscle, which is then cut trans-
versely into slices. These small steaks, when beaten four or five
times with the flat side of a meat cleaver and then fried in butter,
are tender and delicious. The meat is also equally delectable when
served as a chowder or minced. Besides supplying the local market
the mollusks may be shipped across the continent, for when individ-
uals are placed one on top of the other, in a sort of a living nest, they
will survive for as long as six days without water, feeding upon the
organisms and organic slime covering the shells upon which they
rest. While the American market is not sufficiently developed to
create an active demand for fresh abalones yet in a dried state many
are shipped to China. After being gathered from the rocks by the
diver and taken into camp, the shells are removed and the abalones
thrown into vats of salt water and left for two or three days. In
this manner, the pigmented mantle fringe is removed and the meat
preserved. The abalones are next washed in large tubs by means of
wooden paddles and then cooked for one half hour in water almost
ABALONES OF CALIFORNIA—-EDWAEDS. 433

at the boiling temperature not only for sterilization, but to give the
meat the desired rounded shape. With dipnets the Japanese work-
men remove the abalones to baskets and carry them to the drying
frames, where they are laid out in trays in the sunshine. After four
or five days, or longer, if the temperature falls, the partly dried
abalones are cooked in water for the second time for one hour. Next
they are smoked in charcoal smoke for from 12 to 24 hours, and then
for the third time placed in boiling water mainly for rinsing. Now
they are dried for a period of six weeks and after a final cleansing
bath in luke-warm water made ready for shipment. During the
process of drying the meat loses nine-tenths of its original weight.
While hard and tough, like dried beef, it may be sliced with a sharp
knife and eaten with relish. When dried the meat brings from 12 to
14 cents a pound for the green and corrugated species, and from 8 to
10 cents for the black abalone. Most of the dried abalone goes to
China and there finally, at retail, brings 75 cents per pound. A camp
of 14 Japanese fishermen brings in 30 tons or more of the fresh
abalone in a month. There is considerable business in canning
abalone for the California markets as well as for New York and
Honolulu. The abalone of Japan, the awabi, is a smaller species and
the holes of the shell are relatively large, so that only the central
part is of value, chiefly for use in inlaying. Gathering abalones is
especially carried on by women divers, who swim out to the fishing
grounds and work in depths of from 6 to 8 fathoms. Pearls are not
often found, but the meat is dried and sold as dark red disks strung
on sticks.

The familiar polished abalone shells have gone all over the world
and everywhere are highly esteemed as ornaments. The shell is pol-
ished by grinding it first on a carborundum wheel until the desired
colors are reached. The shell is then surfaced by a wheel of felt
sprinkled with carborundum dust glued to the wheel. Finally it is
polished with a wheel made of many layers of cotton on the edges of
which tripoli has been rubbed. This wheel is revolved about twenty-
two hundred times per minute. The quality of being easy, or hard,
to grind and polish is spoken of by the manufactures as the texture
of the shell.

The shells are sorted into two classes, but ordinarily classes 1 and
2 are mixed together. At Avalon, in 1870, when the meat sold for
5 cents a pound, the green shells brought $80 a ton. At the present
time the green shells are sold at $125 to $180 a ton, the black at $80
to $100 a ton, and the red at $40 to $75 a ton. The black shells, with
especially good pearly centers, bring from $300 to $500 a ton. Owing
to the increasing scarcity of good green shells there is a growing
tendency to use the centers of the red shells for jewelry.

44863°—sMm 1913——28
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

When the shells are cut into ornaments, as many as 15 pieces, in-
cluding one scimitar-shaped paper knife made from the lip, or rim,
may be produced from one shell of about 22 inches in circumference.
At an average retail price of 50 cents for each of these pieces the
products of the shell would realize $7.50.

The blister pearls are more or less extended elevations of the inner,
pearly layer of the shell, formed by the secreting cells of the mantle
in defense of the invading, boring mollusk, Pholadidea parva. They
occur mostly in the red abalone, with only one blister pearl in about
1,000 shells of the green or black species. A crab, which infests the
abalone at certain seasons, may be the cause of such formations, and
one exhibited the complete outline of such a crab. Frequently the
blister pearls are formed over sea-urchin spines, chiton, or razor-clam
shells, pebbles, and other foreign bodies retained beneath the mantle.
Sometimes a diseased visceral hump is cut off and covered by nacre,
making a huge blister pearl.

The free pearls have the color of the inside layer of the shell, vary-
ing from white to green or pink, according to the species. They sell
from 50 cents for the smaller ones to $125 for one of 25 grains.
Occasional pearls are so large and of such fine quality as to sell
for five hundred or even one thousand dollars. The free pearls are
frequently found within the stomach. During the year 1912 over
§6,000 blister pearls and 4,000 free pearls were obtained from the
abalone fishermen.

The origin of pearls has been a matter for speculation during many
centuries. As related in ancient folklore, the pearl oyster, rising to
the surface of the sea in the early morning, opens wide the valves
of its shell, so that dewdrops may fall within. Under the influence
of the air and warm sunshine lustrous pearls develop from these
glistening drops of dew. The pearls are white when the weather is
fair, but dark if it is cloudy. This belief was held from the first
to the fifteenth centuries, when the theory was advanced that the
eges of the pearl oyster serve as nuclei for pearls. About the middle
of the sixteenth century Rondelet concluded that pearls form from
diseased concretions, and then, in 1600, Anselmus de Boot demon-
strated that they are made of the same substance as the shell. Réau-
mur, in 1717, showed by aid of the microscope that the pearl is com-
posed of concentric layers of nacre, which we now know serve as
minute prisms to split up the white light into the rainbow tints so
beautiful when reflected from the surface of the pearl. In the mid-
dle of the nineteenth century from an investigation of the fresh-
water mussels of Turin Lake, Filippe proved that the stimulus for
pearl formation in that species is a trematode worm. Other natural-
ists, Kiichenmeister, 1856; Mobius, 1857; Kelaart and Humbert, 1859 ;
Garner, 1871; Dubois, 1901; and Giard, 1903, have contributed to
ABALONES OF CALIFORNIA—-EDWARDS. 435

our knowledge of the origin of pearls from parasitic nuclei. In
1902 Jameson traced the life history of a Distomuwm from its first
host, a duck, to a clam, as its second host, and he succeeded in inocu-
lating the edible mussel, Mytilus, by placing it with parasitically
infected mollusks, and thus artificially induced the formation of
pearls. Herdman, in 1903, found in the pearl oysters of Ceylon that
a tapeworm larval cyst may become a pearl nucleus, or that in some
- cases the secretions may be deposited around sand grains, bits of mud,
or a fish or some other small animal, in pockets of the mantle epi-
dermis, or again about calco-spherules near the muscle insertions.
The surface finally becomes polished, or takes the “ orient,” and thus
reflects the opaline and nacreous tints so highly prized.

The production of culture pearls dates back to the fourteenth cen-
tury in China, and it is probable that the Arabs had a similar in-
dustry. The Chinese open the shell of the river mussel, push back
the mantle, and introduce metal images of Buddha, which are covered
with nacre in the course of six months. Linné drilled a hole through
the shell and inserted a pellet of limestone on the end of a silver
wire, so that the nucleus might be kept free from the shell during the
secretion of nacre. In more recent times the secretion of culture
pearls has been induced in pear! oysters by similar methods in vari-
ous countries. Bouton, in 1897, at Roscoff, France, bored small holes
through the shell of the abalone, and inserted forms made of mother-
of-pearl. After some months beautiful pearls were secreted, their
size being in proportion to the length of time of the culture.

In our red abalone a boring mollusk, Pholadidea, penetrates the
shell from the outside. It files its way by means of sharp teeth on its
shell, and possibly by the secretion of sulphuric acid. The burrow
enlarges as the Pholadidea, growing in size, digs its way in. When
near the inner pearly layer of the abalone shell the host resists the
oncoming Pholadidea by secreting more nacreous matter. Thus the
defensive wall, eaten by the Pholadidea, grows inwardly as a mound-
shaped projection, the blister pearl. In imitation of this natural
process a hole is drilled through the abalone shell and a form is
inserted. This form, made of shell, is shaped like a long-shanked
collar button, and so placed that the expanded curved base lies
against the pearl-secreting mantle. The shank projects from the
outer surface of the abalone shell and is there made fast by alumi-
num wire, to which a metal tag bearing the serial number is attached.
In some cases the wire has corroded, with the loss of the tag. In
later experiments the numbers have been filed upon the shell. The
black abalone has been used in most cases, although a few experi-
ments have been made upon the green abalone. Holes have been
drilled through various parts of the shell and different numbers of
forms inserted. In addition, spherical forms, without shanks, have
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

been placed beyond the mantle cavity near the visceral hump. I have —
succeeded in raising abalone culture pearls in 183 days. These pearls, —
however, are thin layers of nacre, formed over a horny basis, which
is the first material to be secreted. In the natural process of con-
tinued deposition they increase in thickness and solidity, and conse-
quently in value. One produced in a green abalone in seven months
shows good form and luster. My average time for drilling a hole in
the abalone shell, inserting the form, and wiring it in place with the
numbered metal tag is eight minutes. This working time might be
decreased by an expert laborer doing nothing else, so that the busi-
ness of raising pearls would be of interest and profit. Mr. C. B.
Linton has succeeded in producing similar culture pearls by drilling
a hole through the shell center, pushing in a round ball made from
shell, and filling the outside end of the hole with beeswax and cement.

Based upon the fact that each ton of abalone shells represents a
certain value of manufactured jewelry and novelties, it is possible to
estimate the value of the abalone industry. Shells of the black aba-
lone are sorted into two classes. Each ton of those with fine, pearly
centers will make novelties and jewelry worth, at retail, $4,000. The
class known as button shells, with plain mother-of-pearl surface, rep-
resents a final value of $1,000, and the shells of the green abalone
$3,000. For the fiscal year ending in July, 1912, the following ship-
ments were made from Long Beach and represent the given valuations
in manufactured products: Thirteen tons of pearl-center black aba-
lone shells, $58,000; 40 tons of button black abalone shells, $40,000;
14 tons of dried abalone meats, at $200 a ton, $2,800; a total of
$95,800. The shipping statistics are not complete for the other Cali-
fornia ports, but it is demonstrable that the abalone industry may be
developed into one of great value.

Much has been said recently in the newspapers concerning the
threatened extermination of the abalone. That this is a real danger
and not an idle theory is apparent to anyone familiar with the facts.
For instance, near Avalon, Santa Catalina Island, not more than 20
years ago the green and corrugated abalones were so thick that they
rested upon one another four or five deep all over the rocks. After
much searching in this locality during the last year I was unable to
find a single specimen. The shells brought up by the divers of the
glass-bottomed boats, and eagerly bought by the tourists, have been
placed in position previously by the enterprising management. Great
shell heaps on San Clemente, San Nicholas, and other islands prove
the abundance of abalones during the centuries of Indian occupation.
Some of the red shells found are unusually large, measuring from
20 to 30 inches in circumference. Necklaces of large abalone pearls
have been found with the remains of Indians. If only well pre-
served, some of these pearls at present would be worth as much
as $500,
ABALONES OF CALIFORNIA——EDWARDS. 437

In many places where the abalone was formerly abundant, the large
individuals of legal size are taken and it may be true, as in the case of
the American lobster, that in this manner the most prolific breeders
are sacrificed. We do not yet know anything about the breeding
habits and embryology of any species of the abalone, and hence are not
certain as to the best months for a closed season. In time, without
doubt, we shall be able to artificially propagate the abalone, as has
been done with the oysters, clams, lobsters, and other useful animals.
The Government breakwater at the mouth of Los Angeles Harbor, at
San Pedro, has become a natural breeding ground for black abalones,
which creep back under the great stone blocks and thus escape the
gatherers, who are stripping every accessible niche and cranny along
the coast at each low tide during the open season.

Reservations have been established at Monterey Bay and Venice,
but the present laws are inadequate for their best development. By
act of the city trustees the Venice Breakwater has been made a bio-
logical reservation, under the control of the marine biological station
of the University of Southern California and guarded by a deputy
of the State fish and game commission. As an aquicultural experi-
ment I have placed colonies of several hundred black abalones and
75 of the green species upon the submerged rocks. A large concrete
live box has been suspended by a block-and-tackle hoisting apparatus
at about mid height of the tide. The open top is covered by heavy
galvanized-iron meshwork, while through several holes in the bottom
the dirt is cleaned out by the flow of the tide. The box is so heavy
that one may stand upon any part of it and do the necessary work in
feeding and observing the animals within. Forty abalones under
experimentation and for growth records are kept in the live box, and
a group of two or three times that number might easily be main-
tained in good condition. Near Venice the ocean is shallow, for it
is 3 miles out to the 16-fathom line. The trawling of our motor
sloop, the Anton Dohrn, has demonstrated that in most places the
fauna of the sandy bottom is poor. Better results may be looked for
when reservations are located on the rocky coast, where great beds
of kelp thrive just within the deep-water line. The kelp is not only
important as food for abalones, but within its wide-spreading fronds
a world of living things thrive. In such a region the plankton is
richer and these microscopic plants and animals generate food for
the larger swimming and bottom-dwelling forms.

The establishment of laws for the regulation of aquiculture and
the concomitant protection of marine and fresh-water organisms is of
primary importance. The formation of reservation districts for abso-
lute closure during successive periods of years, within which we may
have, every 5 or 10 miles, smaller perpetual biological reservations
for breeding centers, will solve the problems of preservation in a
better manner than the present laws for closed and open seasons. In
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Germany the Elster River pearl-mussel beds and in France the
marine mussel and oyster fisheries have been saved and developed by
proper legislation and governmental supervision. In this country
the business of oyster propagation and farming has been profitably
established under such well-delevoped laws as those of Connecticut.
Jt would be difficult to attempt an estimate of the remarkable achieve-
ment of the Bureau of Fisheries in the field of aquiculture. The
shad, the salmon, and now the fur seal have been saved from ex-
termination. So abalones may be raised in the sea as easily as
chickens upon the land. The coastal waters must be surveyed for
leasing by the State and then a police force organized to guard the
marine farms from all the poaching pirates. Itcan not be emphasized
too often that in direct ratio with the increase of population the
neglected food resources of land and sea must be conserved and de-
veloped. The company manufacturing rubber and fertilizer and
extracting iodine from kelp should only be allowed to cut the sea-
weed under such restrictions as will preserve the natural home and
food supply of all the countless dependent organisms. The inherent
tendency of man to rob the earth and sea in order to promote his
own selfish interests must be restrained for the larger benefit of his
‘fellows and the salvation of his descendants from want. The sea is
the last great field for human exploration and exvloitation. We know
so little of its vast resources that we can scarcely dream of the pos-
sible future industries which will arise under a wisely administered
system of aquiculture.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PrEATE: te

THE DiveER GOING DOWN THE LADDER.

IN Divina Dress READY FOR THE DESCENT.
Smithsonian Report, 1913,—Edwards. PLATE 2.

THE GREEN ABALONE SHELL WITH MASK OF ALGZ. BLACK ABALONE.

Shell removed, showing visceral
mass terminating in the spiral
ececum posteriorlyand theopened
gill cavity to the left anteriorly.

OILFACTORY TENTACLE

GULLET- — 4 (G9 (2 WW 7) FAI b—COLUMELLAR MUSCLE

REGTUM —

—EPIPODIAL FOLD

REPRODUCTIVE GLAND

seen =~ DIGESTIVE GLAND

| > ‘
he SSS
STOMACH” “WS SPIRAL COECUM

GREEN ABALONE DISSECTED.

The gills, kidneys, heart, and dorsal parts of mantle and columellar muscle haye been
remoyed and spiral ececum turned oyer to the right.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 3.

FEEDING ABALONES FROM THE HAND.

a, b, grasping kelp with anterior processes of foot; c, drawing kelp
under foot; d, eating hole in kelp.

THE ABALONE DRYING FRAMES OF THE SAN CLEMENTE ISLAND JAPANESE CAMP.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 4

DIPPING ABALONES FROM THE BOILING TANK.

MEAT OF THE GREEN ABALONE DRYING IN THE SUNSHINE AT SAN CLEMENTE
ISLAND.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 5.

POLISHED BLACK ABALONE SHELL. SHELL OF THE CORRUGATED ABALONE.

The unpolished posterior half showing in-
crusting worm tubes.

A PoRTION OF THE RED ABALONE SHELL WITH FOUR BLISTER-
PEARLS AND TWO FREE PEARLS.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 6.

SHELL OF RED ABALONE OPENED TO SHOW A RAZOR-CLAM
SHELL FORMING A BLISTER-PEARL NUCLEUS.

BLISTER-PEARL FORMED OVER A DISEASED VISCERAL HUMP.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 7.

FREE PEARLS FROM THE ABALONE.

The central pearl large and valuable. From the collection of C. B. Linton.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 8.

a, black abalone shell with pearl form inserted; b, head of shell
pearl form on inner side of black abalone shell; c, culture pearl
formed in the green abalone in seven months.

INTERIOR VIEW OF THE RED ABALONE SHELL OF THE GREEN ABALONE.
SHELL.

; The anterior portion polished.
Showing pearly center within the muscle scar.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Edwards. PLATE 9.

THE CONCRETE LIVE-BOX ABOVE WATER AT LOW TIDE.

THE JAPANESE ABALONE CAMP AT WHITE’S POINT, CALIFORNIA.
‘GNV1S] SLNAW319 NVS LY dNVO ASSNVdvP SHI

0) atVvald ‘sprempy—'€ 16] ‘Hoday ueluosy}iWS
THE VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN.

By JAMES BUCKLAND,
London, England.

I saw with open eyes T saw in vision

Singing birds sweet The worm in the wheat,
Sold in the shops And in the shops nothing
For people to eat. For people to eat;

Sold in the shops of Nothing for sale in
Stupidity Street. Stupidity Street.

—Ralf Hodgson.

NUMBER, FECUNDITY, AND VORACITY OF INSECTS.

Man imagines himself to be the dominant power on the earth. He
is nothing of the sort. The true lords of the universe are the insects.
While it is true that man has invented and perfected so many de-
structive agencies that he has attained to a predominance over the
most fierce and powerful mammals and the most deadly reptiles, it
is also true that in face of an attack of insects he and all his works
are set at naught.

“A little one shall become a thousand and a small one a strong
nation.” Few people know how enormous is the number of insect
species or how amazing is their power of multiplication. The num-
ber of insect species is greater by far than that of the species of all other
living creatures combined. Over 300,000 have been described, and
it is considered not improbable that twice that number remain to be
described. Practically all living animals, as well as most plants,
furnish food for these incomputable hordes. More than this, Kirby,
in the “ Introduction to Entomology,” devotes no less than five entire
epistles to the injuries we sustain from insects, while two only are
sufficient to describe the benefits they yield.

The fecundity of certain insect forms is astounding, the numbers
bred reaching such prodigious proportions as to be almost beyond
belief. Riley once computed that the hop aphis, developing 13 gen-
erations in a single year, would, if unchecked to the end of the
twelfth generation, have multiplied to the inconceivable number of
ten sextillions of individuals. Noting the preceding, Forbush says
if this brood were marshaled in line, 10 to the inch, it would extend
to a point so sunk in the profundity of space that light from the
head of the procession traveling at the rate of 184,000 miles per sec-
ond would require 2,500 years in which to reach the earth.

439
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Kirkland has computed that one pair of gypsy moths, if unchecked,
would produce enough progeny in eight years to destroy all the
foliage in the United States.

A Canadian entomologist states that a single pair of Colorado
beetles, or potato bugs, as we call them, would, without check, in-
crease in one season to 60,000,000. At this rate of multiplication the
disappearance of the potato plant would not be long delayed. The
chinch bug, a fecund and destructive pest, has been found in a clump
of grass 8 inches in diameter to the number of 20,000. The progeny
of this colony alone, if unchecked, would soon become incomputable
hordes, devastating wide areas of the earth’s surface. Those of you
who have been in South Africa probably have seen locusts in flight
which filled the air and hid the sun. What a potency for evil lies
hidden in the tiny but innumerable eggs of these ravening pests! If
every egg was permitted to hatch and every young locust to come to
maturity, the consequences would be too dreadful to contemplate.

The voracity of insects is almost as astounding as their power of
reproduction. The daily ration in leaves of a caterpillar is equal to
twice its own weight. If a horse were to feed at the same rate, he
would have to eat a ton of hay every 24 hours. Forbush says that a
certain flesh-feeding larva will consume in 24 hours 200 times its
original weight, a parallel to which, in the human race, would be an
infant consuming, in the first day of its existence, 1,500 pounds of
beef. Trouvelot, who made a special study of the subject, affirms that
the food taken by a single silkworm in 56 days equals in weight
86,000 times its original weight at hatching. What a destruction
this single species of insect could make if only a one-hundredth part
of the eggs laid came to maturity!

MISSION OF THE BIRDS IN ORGANIC NATURE.

Who or what is it that prevents these ravening hordes from over-
running the earth and consuming the food supply of all? It is not
man. Man, by the use of mechanically applied poisons, which are
expensive, unnatural, and dangerous, is able to repel to an extent the
attacks on his orchard and garden. Out in the fields and in the
forests he becomes, before any very great irruption of insects, a panic-
stricken fugitive. Neither is it disease, or the weather, or animals,
or fungi, or parasitic and predaceous insects within their own ranks.
However large may be the share of these particular natural agencies
in keeping insects in check, experience has shown that it is lamentably
insufficient. Then what isit? The bird. Bird life, by reason of its
predominating insect diet, ig the most indispensable balancing force
in nature.
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 44]
MAN AT WAR WITH. NATURE'S LAWS.

Yet man has been engaged in the past half century in the blind
and wanton destruction of this essential part of nature’s great plan.
He has taken no thought of the needs of the hour, nor concerned him-
self with the wants and claims of those to come. Within the space
of a few years, under no constraint of necessity, he has carried out a
policy of destruction more effective than that accomplished in cen-
turies by the slow processes of nature. Armed with a weapon that
annihilates space, he has constituted himself the master and the
ruler of the animal world, and has delegated to himself the right to
adopt a utilitarian standard by which he measures the value of all
other forms of life. It is not for man to say what shall live and what
shall be destroyed. The whole system of nature is in exquisite poise,
and it is not possible to lay rough hands upon it without disturbing
it in directions and on a scale which at the time may not be guessed
at. If we remove or reduce the working power of one living organ-
ism which acts as a check on another, the latter, freed from restraint,
will inevitably multiply. As we destroy the insect-eating birds the
insects on which they prey will multiply to scourge us as Egyptian
plagues. It is a fact which agriculture has learned to its cost in many
parts of the world.

SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES OF BIRD DESTRUCTION.

Some years ago the agriculturists of Hungary, moved to the in-
sane step by ignorance and prejudice, succeeded in getting the spar-
row (Passer domesticus) doomed to destruction. Within five years
the country was overrun with insects, and these same men were cry-
ing frantically for the bird to be given back to them, lest they should
perish. The sparrow was brought back, and, driving out the hordes
of devastating insects, proved the salvation of the country.

In the island of Bourbon once, because of the same ignorance and
prejudice, a price was set on each martin’s head. The birds all but
disappeared, and grasshoppers took possession of the island. The
edict of banishment was hurriedly revoked and the exile recalled.
Fortunate, indeed, was it for the island of Bourbon that the bird
was not beyond recall.

During the year 1861 the harvests of France gave an unusually
poor return, and a commission was appointed at the instance of the
minister of agriculture to investigate the cause of the deficiency.
By this commission the deficiency was attributed to the ravages of
insects which it was the function of certain birds to check. These
birds, it appeared, had been shot, snared, and trapped throughout
_ the country in such numbers that but little repressive influence had
_ been exerted upon the insects. It was concluded that by no other
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

agency than the birds could the ravages of insects be kept down, and
the commission called for prompt and energetic remedies to prevent
the destruction of birds.

For some years prior to 1877 vast numbers of red-winged black-
birds were poisoned in the spring and autumn around the cornfields
of Nebraska. This was done in the belief that the blackbirds were
damaging the crops, especially the wheat. Great numbers of prairie
chicken, quail, plover, and various other insect-eating species were
destroyed at the same time by eating the poisoned grain. Then
came 1877, and with it Nemesis. The locusts appeared in countless
numbers. There were no birds to eat them, and Nebraska mourned.

In 1895 the ravages of two species of cut-worms and some 10
species of locusts produced a famine in the region of Ekaterinburg,
which is in Russian Siberia. The local Society of Natural Sciences
inquired into the cause which had permitted such a numerous propa-
gation of insect pests, and reported that it was due to the almost
complete destruction of birds, most of which had been killed and
gent abroad by wagon loads for millinery purposes.

Those grass ticks which now make the keeping of most breeds
of cattle impossible in Jamaica, are not mentioned in the records
of the early nineteenth century. The appalling destruction in more
recent years of insect-eating birds, chiefly to supply the demands
of the millinery market, has led to an inordinate increase of the
ticks and to the dying out of all but Indian cattle. This correlation
of birds and ticks—to say nothing of mosquitos and other insect
plagues in Jamaica—was put fully and circumstantially before the
secretary of state for the colonies by a deputation in 1909.

E. D. Morel has recently pointed out how the reckless destruction
of the guinea-fowl (Numida) in French West Africa is coincident
with the increase of certain germ diseases, and, above all, with
ravages to crops on the parts of the larger insects, especially beetles,
the grubs of which were devoured by the guinea-fowl, which
scratched them out of the ground.

Though I could give a hundred cases similar to the foregoing, I
must rely on the few I have cited to show that the wholesale de-
struction of birds is surely followed by disaster to man.

VALUE OF THE BIRD IN CHECKING INSECT IRRUPTIONS.

When the Mormons first settled in Utah, their crops were de-
stroyed utterly by myriads of black crickets that streamed down
from the mountains. Promising fields of wheat in the morning were
by evening as bare as though the land had not been sown. The first
year’s crop having been destroyed, the Mormons had sowed seed
the second year, and again the crop promised well. But again the
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN——BUCKLAND. 443

crickets appeared, devouring every blade of wheat, and the follow-
ers of Joseph Smith were on the verge of starvation. At this junc-
ture Franklin’s gull came by hundreds of thousands, and, feeding
greedily on the crickets, freed the fields of the pest. The settlers
at Salt Lake regarded the advent of the gulls as a heaven-sent
miracle, and practically canonized the birds.

Since that hour this black-headed gull has remained a faithful
servitor of the farmers of Utah. At the present moment a move-
ment is on foot to erect a monument to this bird in Salt Lake City,
thus showing a befitting and seemly sense of gratitude for its in-
estimable services in guarding the State from the ravages of insects.

It is a common practice with all settlers in a new country to at
once set about killing the native birds in a thoughtless and foolhardy
manner. This stupid practice is all the more deplorable, because
an enormous increase of insect pests invariably attends the operations
of the pioneer agriculturist. Finding in cultivated crops new and
more succulent sources of food supply, insects change their primitive’
habits, to swarm and multiply exceedingly upon the fertile fields of
man’s creation.

When the farmers in New Zealand began to break the virgin soil
on an extensive scale, a certain caterpillar, which hitherto had
gleaned a somewhat meager sustenance from the scanty native
verdure of the open lands, disappeared from its old haunts and at-
tacked the cultivated areas. So speedily did it increase by reason
of a more favorable environment that it soon became a blasting
plague. It came not singly, nor even in battalions, but in mighty
armies which laid waste the land. I have seen these atoms cover the
pastures in such numbers as to make the green one brown. I have
seen countless millions of them pass out of one cornfield, having
stripped every stalk bare, cross the road in solid phalanx, and pass
into another. I have seen big mobs of sheep mustered in hot haste
and driven to and fro over these serried ranks that they might crush
them with their scurrying feet. I have seen every horse roller in
a district brought up hurriedly, like steam engines to a fire, and
drawn backward and forward over the crawling masses until the
cylinders stuck fast in a mire of squashed insects. I have seen
huge ditches dug in an attempt to stop the invaders’ progress. The
effort was as futile as that of a child who builds a bank of sand by the
sea, thinking it will stem the oncoming tide. Even railway trains
were brought to a standstill, the wheels of the engines being unable
to grip the rails owing to the hordes of caterpillars which were
crossing the line.

In time it became abundantly clear that if this disastrous condition
of affairs continued it would be useless to attempt to carry on agri-
culture in New Zealand. Realizing that any attempt which they
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918,

might make to rid the smitten land of the plague would be but a
mockery, the farmers turned their eyes longingly to the natural
enemy of the caterpillar—the bird. But the native birds—though
they had lived in closest companionship with the Maoris—had been
taught the treachery of the white man in a school that reeked with
blood, and those that had not been killed had retreated from the
vicinity of the settlements, visiting the insect-ridden fields occasion-
ally only.

Wherefore insectivorous birds from the old country were intro-
duced, and the one that multiplied most rapidly was the common
house sparrow. And Passer domesticus soon cut short the career of
the caterpillars.

As digestion is exceedingly rapid in birds, and as they feed for the

most part throughout the day, they are peculiarly adapted for the
suppression of abnormal outbreaks of vegetable as well as of animal
life.
’ That formidable imported weed, the Scotch thistle, threatened at
one time to overrun the whole of New Zealand. Much time and
money was spent by the settlers in cutting off the plants close to the
ground, and in pouring turpentine upon the split stumps, hoping
thereby to kill the roots. Vain labor. The wind-driven clouds of
thistledown, which were planting the weed far and wide, grew yearly
denser and more frequent. At length the fields became a packed
growth of prickly plants, which nothing could face.

The sparrows took to eating the seed. In tens of thousands they
fed on it, giving it the preference of all other hard food, and the
weed was conquered.

To-day in New Zealand the sparrow is looked upon as an impudent
thief without a redeeming feature in its character. No one, of course,
can say what would happen if the bird was dismissed from the coun-
try, though it is probable that the Dominion would be again overrun
with caterpillars and thistles. Setting aside this hypothetical ques-
tion, the good the sparrow does must far outweigh the evil. This
statement receives confirmation in the bountiful harvests with which
New Zealand is blessed. Never were the sparrows more numerous;
never the complaints against them more bitter; yet the yield of grain
is without precedent.

The growling of the New Zealand farmer at the sparrow justifies
Virgil’s complaint of the “miserly husbandman.” Miserly, indeed,
and blind. Not a grain will he give to the bird which has labored
unceasingly with him for the production of his crops; but whole fields
of wheat to the caterpillar.

Parenthetically I may mention that, though I have written here
in defense of the introduction of the European sparrow into New
Zealand, I am not an advocate of acclimatization. It is true that one
can point to cases where a foreign bird has been introduced to per-
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 445

form the function of a native species that has been driven out, and
where that function has been performed satisfactorily. But, as a
rule, such substitutions are fraught with danger. Birds so rapidly
change their habits in new surroundings that few species remain
loyal to the reputation for honesty which they enjoyed in the land of
their origin. Like most aliens, it would have been better had they
remained in their own country. Although the spread of civilization
unconsciously demands some victims, man and indigenous birds can,
speaking generally, occupy the same territory without much diffi-
culty. If one requires proof of this, he has but to turn his thoughts
to British India, where native birds of all kinds, owing to the protec-
tion accorded them by the Hindu doctrine of the sanctity of all life,
are found living in closest proximity to dense human populations.

The moral of all of which is that it behooves every man who has
the welfare of his country at heart to do all in his power to foster
native birds.

In Australia a plague of grasshoppers periodically visits the fields
to devour the crops. The ruin they would otherwise bring on the
farmer is averted by the good offices of ibises and other native birds.
As a destroyer of grasshoppers, the straw-necked ibis (Carphibis
spinicollis) has no equal among birds. Dudley Le Souéf, the director
of the Melbourne Zoological Gardens, some years ago visited a rook-
ery of this bird in the Riverina, and, after a careful estimate, came
to the conclusion that the minimum number of birds breeding there
was 200,000. He procured a number of specimens and ascertained
by actual counting that the contents of an average crop of an adult
bird were 2,410 young grasshoppers, 5 fresh-water snails, and several
caterpillars, which, multiplied by 200,000, amounts to a total of
four hundred and eighty-two million and odd grasshoppers, as well
as vast numbers of caterpillars and snails. “Then, again,” says Mr.
Le Souéf, “the average number of young is about two and one-half
to each pair of parent birds, and the contents of their stomachs must
reach an enormous total, as they all seemed gorged with food.”

As this enormous amount of food is being eaten every day by
ibises in Australia during the hatching time of the grasshoppers,
some little idea can be formed of the immense utility these birds are
to the farmer. Without them the balance of nature would be dis-
turbed and successful agriculture would be impossible.

In addition to its great value as a destroyer of all-devouring in-
sects, the straw-necked ibis feeds with avidity on the fresh-water
snail—the host of the dreaded liver fluke, which sheep so easily get
in certain damp localities.

Yet, in face of these facts, people surreptitiously visit the breeding
grounds of these birds and collect their eggs by the cartload. One
party in 1912, having gathered more than it required, drove away
and left 4,800 eggs to rot on the ground.
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

THE VALUE OF BIRDS IN FORESTS.

Omitting all mention of many another notable instance of the
quelling of insect outbreaks by birds, I will pass at once to the con-
sideration of those perennial services which act as a constant check
on the undue increase of insects, rodents, weeds, and other pests.

Birds attain their greatest usefulness in the forests, because the
conditions there closely approach the primeval.

Forest trees have their natural insects foes, to which they give
food and shelter, and these insects in turn have their natural enemies
among the birds, to which the tree also gives food and shelter.
Hence it follows that the existence of each one of these forms of life
is dependent upon the existence of the others. But for the trees the
insects would perish, and but for the insects the birds would perish,
and but for the birds the trees would perish; and, to follow the
inexorable laws of nature to the conclusion of their awful vengeance,
but for the trees the world would perish.

Consider for a moment the life of a tree in connection with the
insects that prey upon it. At the very beginning, before the seed or
nut has germinated, it may be entered by a grub which destroys it.
Should, however, the seed or nut be permitted to grow, the roots of
the seedling may be attacked by bettles. Escaping this danger, a
worm lays its eggs in the cracks of the bark. On hatching, the worm
or borer perforates a hole in the stem. This hole, admitting water
from every passing shower, causes a decay in the wood to commence,
from which the tree may never recover. Other borers feed upon the
bark, eating the soft inner layer and the sap. The twigs are affected
by the larve of certain bettles, which act as girdlers, sometimes de-
stroying limbs over an inch in diameter. Weevils bore under the
bark and into the pith, making excavations in which the eggs are
laid. For the same purpose the cicada makes a terrible wound,
which often proves fatal. The limbs of trees are affected by aphides,
which puncture them and feed upon their juices, exhausting the sap.
Many species of plant lice and scale insects infest trees, doing great
damage, while over 100 different species of gall flies are parasitic
upon them. The buds of trees are entered and destroyed by the larvee
of certain moths, while the leaves are devoured by caterpillars. To
take the oak as an example, it is known that altogether over 500
species of insects prey upon it. Finally, be it remembered that in the
bark and in the underlying tissues lie the vital energies of a tree.

It is difficult to perceive the usefulness of these insects which feed
on the different parts of the tree, though they may, perhaps, when in
normal numbers, exert a useful influence by a healthful and neces-
sary pruning. It is certain, however, that if they were not in turn
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 447

preyed upon by birds they would so increase in numbers that the
tree could not survive the injuries they would inflict.

How dependent trees are on birds for their existence may be
gathered from the following illustration: As many of you probably
know, trees breathe through their leaves. Consequently, if the buds
of the leaves are prevented from developing, or are eaten, when
developed, by caterpillars, the tree is weakened. Many coniferous
trees will die if stripped of their foliage for one year. Deciduous
trees, if deprived of their respiratory organs for several years in
succession, will also perish, though these trees linger as a rule for two
or even three years before finally succumbing.

Now, injury to its breathing organs is not the only danger to
which a tree afflicted in this way is subjected. The tree, being in a
weakened condition, is at once beset by beetles and other borers, who,
multiplying rapidly under such favorable conditions, tunnel under
the bark until all the vital tissues of the poor tree are wasted. Thus
a tree which might have recovered from the injury to its lungs falls
a victim to the attacks of an insidious enemy which took advantage
of its enfeebled state.

Woodpeckers or other birds of similar feeding habits would have
flown to the rescue of the tree and possibly saved its life; but when
that corrective influence is missing, the tree must die.

This illustration of the dependence of the tree on the bird and of
the bird on the tree is, of course, but one of a long series that could
be cited, and it is because of this most delicate adjustment between the
tree, the insect, and the bird that I regard as profoundly true Frank
M. Chapman’s statement “ that it can be clearly demonstrated that if
we should lose our birds we should also lose our forests.”

It is an ignorant schoolboy who does not know that if we lost our
forests we should lose also the moisture necessary for the production
of crops upon which man is dependent for his living.

If, in his arrogance and folly, man exterminated the bird, thinking
himself capable of taking its place, he might be able to make shift
with his sprays to save some portion at least of his orchards and
gardens; but of what avail would be his puny efforts to protect from
the ravening maws of insects the forests of America and Africa, the
jungles of Asia, or the bush of Australia? Should he not, then,
protect by every means in his power every one of the forest birds,
who, as a matter of course, and without trouble or expense to him,
ordinarily accomplish, on his behalf, the herculean task of saving the
lives of the trees? One would think so. Yet in these very regions,
in these vast areas of valuable timber, every trunk of which man will
some day need, there are being killed annually millions of the feath-
ered guardians of the tree, and killed, too, for no worthier purpose
than that, dead, they may defame a woman’s head.
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
THE VALUE OF THE BIRD IN THE ORCHARD.

For man’s purposes the work of the bird in the orchard is not so
thorough as that done by them in the forest. Birds are the slaves of
nature, and, in the main, nature’s endeavors are put forth only to
produce such fruits as will insure the perpetuity of each species of
tree. With man the case is altogether different. His main object is
not the propagation of trees, but the production of a giant gooseberry.
Moreover, by introducing arsenical spraying, tarred and greased
bands, and other devices to counteract the evil action of insects, he
has, to a certain extent, taken upon himself the office of the bird. In
this he is wise, for it must be admitted that if he wishes a large crop
of fruit he must himself prevent the inroads of those insects which
attack the fruit directly. It can not be expected of the bird that it
will become an efficient ally of man in protecting the artifically pro-
duced fruit from the attacks of the numerous insects that are drawn
to the orchard by a vastly increased quantity of fruit of a vastly bet-
ter quality than the natural product.

For all that, fruit growers are largely indebted to the bird for a
great part of their annual crop.

In the Union of South Africa, for instance, it is found that near
towns, where the birds have been more especially persecuted and
driven away, the growing of fruit and other market produce has be-
come increasingly difficult, or even impossible, owing to the preva-
lence of insect pests which are not affected by spraying operations.

But let us suppose for a moment—though the supposition is ab-
surd—that the modern fruit grower could do without the services of
the bird. Would that give him a right to slay it? Apart altogether
from the agriculturist, what of the millions of people who, as an in-
crement to their ordinary livelihood, grow fruit, but who can not
afford either the time or the money to treat their trees in the most
approved and scientific way ?

What would happen to this poorer class of fruit growers if they
were deprived of the services of the bird is best seen in what hap- .
pened to Frederick the Great. This worthy, in a fit of passion
because a flock of sparrows had pecked at some of his cherries,
ordered every small bird that could be searched out to be instantly
killed, Within two years his cherry trees, though bare of fruit, were
weighed down with a splendid crop of caterpillars.

Call the bird in the orchard an evil, if you will; but it is a neces-
sary evil, and the fruit grower must make up his mind to pay the
bird its wages lest worse befall.
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 449

THE SERVICES OF THE BIRD IN THE GARDEN.

The garden is the insect’s paradise. It fares sumptuously every
day on the most succulent of vegetable foods. Every opportunity is
thus offered for its increase. The greatest insect enemy of the gar-
dener is a small, dull-colored, hairless caterpillar known as the cut-
worm, which is the larva of a Noctuid moth. This chief of the
brigand band of garden pests usually hides during the day beneath
matted grass or under the loose soil along the rows of plants. It
comes forth at dusk to feed. The bird is abroad at the first peep of
day, and it finds the robber worm in the morning before it has
retreated to its place of concealment.

But the early bird has to come stealthily to the garden to catch the
worm. Its visits are regarded by man with more than suspicion, and
it is fortunate if it escapes with its life. In consequence it snaps up a
caterpillar and is off again, leaving thousands it would have eaten,
if unmolested, to run riot amongst. the vegetables.

Occasionally a bird more bold than its fellows will visit the garden
in broad daylight to dig the cutworms out of their hiding places.
Nature never having begrudged it the reward of its toil, the bird
takes a few peas before leaving.

The gardener notices the damage done to his peas, and next morn-
ing is up betimes. He sees the bird running along a row of peas,
stopping frequently to peck at something on the ground. There is
a loud explosion, followed by a puff of smoke. The smoke slowly
drifts away, to disclose a bird lying dead.

Caterpillars are not gifted with voice; if they were, they would
scarce forbear to cheer.

The bird is dead. Mark the sequel. One fine morning the gardener
issues proudly forth to cut his mammoth cabbage—the one with which
he intends to put to utter confusion all other competitors at the local
fruit and flower show. Alas for human hopes and the depredations
of caterpillars. The cabbage is riddled like a colander.

The gardener when he shot the bird forgot, if, indeed, he ever
knew, that the ancient law forbade a muzzle to the ox that thrashed
out the corn.

UTILITY OF BIRDS IN THE MBADOW.

Each season, until hay making commences, the grass offers cover
and shelter for the nests of such birds as breed on the ground. The
fields also provide food for birds, and for the insects on which birds
feed. Thus there is established a natural interrelation and interde-
pendence between the bird and its food and shelter—that is to say,
the insects and the grass. This simulates the condition of the earth
before man made discord in the grand harmony of nature’s laws.

44863°—sm 1913——29
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Where the birds of the field are undisturbed they tend to hold the
grass insects in check. On the other hand, when the numbers of
birds in the field are for any reason insufficient, the insects increase.

Here is an instance of this: Some years ago in Bridgewater, Mass.,
a great battue was held by the ignorant townspeople in the spring of
the year, and so many field birds were killed that their dead bodies
were plowed into the land for manure. The following summer
whole fields of grass withered away and died. This was due solely
to the fact that the number of field birds had been reduced, and in
consequence the pressure which nature demands the field birds shall
exert upon the field insect had been released.

Again, at one time in New Zealand it was no uncommon thing to
see English grass wither up in large patches, as though scorched by
fire. This was due to the work of a crane fly and click beetle, the
larvee of both of which were addicted to the habit of eating the roots
of the grass, just under the surface. English grass was then com-
paratively limited in the up-country districts, and, as there are large
tracts of land in New Zealand destitute of native grasses, the depre-
dations of these insects became a serious matter to those settlers who
had stock to feed and who were relying on the English grass to feed
it. It was all the more serious because the insects were without any
natural check, the native birds which had kept them in subjection
before the advent of the white man having been either killed or
driven from the vicinity of the homesteads. So the beetles continued
to make merry, to marry, and to multiply. In a corresponding ratio
the grass continued to fade, to wither, and to die.

Then came the English starling, and so voraciously did it feed on
the larve that soon all was green again.

A case similar to the foregoing occurred about five years ago in
an inland district of Australia, where, owing to the ruthless destruc-
tion of wild bird life, grubs took possession of the land, and, eating
out the grass by the roots, transformed what had been a rich pas-
tural country into an unprofitable waste.

Without the aid of birds grass could not be grown. The grub of
a single species of beetle, if unchecked in its multiplication, could
destroy all the roots in our meadows; or any one of the several spe-
cies of cutworms, if its reproduction was not restrained by birds,
might be sufficient to destroy all the verdure above ground.

HAWKS AND OWLS.

The injury to trees, crops, and grass by insects is not the only evil
that threatens man as a sequence to the destruction of birds. Rapa-
cious birds hold a chief place among the forces which are appointed
to hold in check small rodents, which breed rapidly, and unless kept
within bounds are exceedingly destructive. Yet, notwithstanding
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 451

the unanimous testimony of careful students of birds and their food
habits to the effect that almost all hawks and owls are beneficial, a
widespread prejudice still exists against them. They are slain as
relentlessly as if they were enemies instead of friends of the farmer.

The destructive habits of the small rodents, which are the natural
prey of hawks and owls, are much the same all the world round.
They do an incalculable amount of damage to standing corn, to corn
in the stook or when stacked, to grain, to root crops when growing
or when piled on the ground or stored in pits, to orchards and forest
trees, to the roots of clover and other grasses, to ground-growing
fruit, and to gardens, both flower and vegetable. In addition to
this list of crimes, certain rodents are active agents in carrying and
disseminating the germs of plague and other diseases.

Here in England—though on account of their small size and se-
eretive habits they are often undiscerned by man’s dull eyes—they
swarm in such numbers in the fields and hedgerows that the damage
they do must prove a steady drain on the resources of the farmer.

The number of small rodents eaten by the rapacious birds is almost
as remarkable in proportion to their size as is the number of insects
eaten by small insectivorous birds. During the summer of 1890 a
pair of barn owls occupied a tower in a building at Washington.
After their departure there were found in the regurgitated pellets,
with which the floor was strewn, 454 skulls of small rodents,

The young of hawks and owls remain a long time in the nest, and
require a great quantity of food. During this period the resources
of the parents must be taxed excessively in the effort to satisfy the
hunger cravings of their offspring, and it is not to be wondered at if
some individuals are forced occasionally to snap up a chicken. But
what is the worth of the chicken, or of the young pheasant, occasion-
ally taken, compared with the hundreds of thousands of pounds’
_ worth of damage that is wrought in the orchards and fields by
rodents that hawks and owls, had they been spared, would have fed
upon for the maintenance of their species?

In 1885 the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act, known
as the “scalp act,” which provided a bounty of 50 cents each on
hawks and owls killed within the State limits, and a fee of 20 cents
to the notary taking the affidavit. As the result of this act $90,000
was paid in bounties during the year and a half subsequent to the
passage of the act. An irruption of small rodents followed and did
damage to the agricultural interests of the State amounting to
$3,850,000. And even these figures, enormous as they are, do not
represent the entire loss. Years must elapse before the balance of
nature, which was destroyed, can be restored.

In Montana the destruction of hawks and owls was so complete
that rodents, freed from the pressure of their natural check, became
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

as one of the plagues of the Book of Exodus. Then the legislature
passed a law offering bounties for the destruction of these four-
footed pests. During six months of 1887 such large sums were paid
out in bounties for the destruction of small rodents—a work that
the hawks and owls had previously done free of charge—that a
special session of the legislature was called to repeal the act, lest it
should bankrupt the State.

In 1907 Nevada went through a very trying experience with mice,
while Utah, Wyoming, California, and several States farther east
have all had occasion to bitterly rue the day that they shot their
hawks and owls.

But the destruction of small rodents is not the only function of
rapacious birds in the economy of nature. Several species are
voracious insect feeders. Nor is this all. It is well known that when
small insectivorous birds increase abnormally in numbers they, too,
became a pest. Hawks and owls materially assist those other agencies
of nature which act as a check on the undue increase of small birds.
If rapacious birds were rigorously protected in this country we
should have fewer complaints of the damage done by sparrows.

Birds of prey, if unmolested, not only prevent the overproduction
of small birds, but they also confer a salutory benefit on each species
on which they prey by checking the propagation of weakness or
disease by killing off the sickly and most unfit individuals, for these
are the most easily seen and the most readily captured. This is particu-
larly true of game fowl, and one of the most plausible hypotheses
explanatory of the occasional outbreaks of disease among grouse has
been the removal of this corrective by ignorant gamekeepers.

Yet it is my belief that nothing but a miracle will ever make these
men see the error of their ways.

Some years ago, when lying in the sweet-smelling heather on a
mountain side in Scotland, I pleaded for the life of the hawk before .
one of its executioners. The gamekeeper listened in silence until my
address to the jury, so to speak, was concluded. Then he said,
“Ye’ve a cold i’ the heid.” I did not see the relevancy of this re-
mark, but I nodded assent. After a pause, he added, “ Ah, weel; ye
canna complain. The cold aye attacks the weakest place first.”

Kaffirs say, “He who kills a hawk must be put to death.”

THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE WHITE HERON.

The destruction of the white heron for its scapular plumes has
robbed half the world of a bird which is most useful to man. It
never touches grain, but feeds solely near water and over damp
ground, the breeding places of innumerable batrachians, small crusta-
ceans, and pestiferous insects, all of which directly or indirectly in-
juriously affect crops in the neighborhood. The presence of the
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 453

white heron in the rice fields, for instance, is distinctly beneficial to
the farmer, and rice is one of the most extensively grown crops of
India and of China.

In Australia the slaughter of this and other wading birds for their
plumage is causing in that country a decline in its fish resources. It
is the destruction of these birds which has led to the ever-increasing
multitudes of crustaceans which destroy the fish spawn and the young
fish hatching out in the Coorong and in the lakes at the Murray
Mouth.

In his report on Egypt for the year 1912 Lord Kitchener stated
that the indiscriminate destruction of bird life had allowed an
enormous increase of insect pests, steps for the combating of which
were to be taken. Lord Kitchener knew that in spite of the im-
proved methods of fighting insects there was only one step that he
could take that would be effective. A Khedivial decree was issued
forbidding the catching or killing of, or taking the eggs of, Egypt’s
insectivorous birds. In issuing this decree, two things were promi-
nent in Lord Kitchener’s thoughts—the destruction of the egret for
its plumes, and the fact that in the valley of the Nile this bird is one
of nature’s checks on the cotton worm.

White herons consume many flies, as well as the larvee of insects in
water. This fact is well known to those who have watched the habits
of oxen and buffalo in Asia or Egypt. There the smaller white
herons—the paddy birds of India—live with the oxen or the buffa-
loes, and pick the flies or the ticks from their bodies.

The late George Grenfell noted once on the Congo how a dying
white heron, which he had shot and put into his canoe, roused itself,
even on the approach of death, to snap at the tsetse flies which were
settling on his boatman’s legs.

VALUE OF BIRDS TO LIVE STOCK.

The injury done to domestic animals by biting and parasitic in-
sects is very great. Herds of cattle are often stampeded by these
tormenting creatures, which carry disease and death among them.
Another great affliction is the warble, which is a small tumor pro-
duced by the larva of the gadfly on the backs of cattle, and the con-
stant irritation of which causes considerable depreciation in the
value of hides, besides a lessened quantity and poorer quality of beef.

Horses, sheep, and other farm animals are subject to the attacks of
similar parasites and other persecuting insect foes.

Tf it were not for the services the bird renders in alighting on ani-
mals in search of these parasites, or in catching the flies on the wing,
or in eating them in the embryo state, man would be unable to keep
his live stock.

More than this, man himself would be unable to inhabit many
places on the earth which he now cultivates, or where he carries on
other lucrative industries.
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
SHORE BIRDS AND DISEASE.

Deadly maladies are carried about by the myriads of mosquitoes
and flies that abound on the coasts of tropical and subtropical coun-
tries. Yet the shore birds, which render invaluable services to man by
destroying these venomous pests, are thoughtlessly killed by him in
countless thousands.

To his honor, be it said, one of the first acts of Mr. Wilson when he
became President of the United States was to issue an Executive
order prohibiting, under heavy penalties for infraction, the destruc-
tion of any wild bird in the Canal Zone.

GAME BIRDS AS WEED DESTROYERS.

Unquestionably weeds serve a useful purpose in nature, but that
purpose is not the occupation of cultivated land. Without check
they would speedily choke all grain to death.

' Constant use of harrows and hoes will do much on farm lands and
in gardens to keep down weeds, but as most earth is full of weed seed,
which retains its vitality for years, the life of the tiller of the soil is
one continuous struggle against these troublesome plants. In this
battle the bird is of great assistance, for the number of weed seeds
eaten by birds on cultivated land must be beyond any assignable
quantity. .

| Game birds generally are the greatest eaters of weed seeds. They
are also useful to man in several other ways. Not only do they de-
vour mature locusts, but they scratch up and eat the eggs. They also
consume in large quantities termites and other equally pernicious
insects. The reckless shooting of game birds is to be deprecated.
They are of far more use alive than in swelling the bag of the sports-
man.

The quail is perhaps the greatest weed destroyer of all the game
birds. It is doubtful, indeed, if the quail is not more useful to man
than any other bird. It is very nearly wholly beneficial. During
spring and summer it feeds on many of the most destructive of in-
sects, and in autumn and winter it eats an enormous amount of seeds
of many harmful weeds.

The report of the United States Biological Survey says:

It is reasonable to suppose that in the States of Virginia and North Carolina
from September 1 to April 30 there were four quail to each square mile of land.
The crop of each bird holds half an ounce of seed and is filled twice a day.
Since at each of these two daily meals harmful weed seeds constitute at least
half the contents of the crop, a half ounce daily is consumed by each bird.
On this basis the total consumption of harmful weed seeds by quail from
September to April in Virginia and North Carolina amounts to 1,341 tons. As

destructive insects form about one-third of the bird’s food from June to August,
quail consume 341 tons of these pests in these States within those two months.
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—BUCKLAND. 455

But perhaps the most valuable service that quail render the people
of the United States is the greedy way in which—and they stand
almost alone among birds in this particular taste—they eat the evil-
smelling potato bug, or, as we call it, the Colorado beetle.

In addition to this inestimable service it is partially due to this
bird that the cotton boll weevil has not swept over the entire cotton
belt of America, bringing ruin to thousands of human beings on
both sides of the Atlantic.

THE BIRD AS A SCAVENGER.

The fishing population of these islands has declared war on the
gulls, and is demanding the withdrawal of certain species from the
list of protected birds, on account of the damage they are alleged to
do to the fishing industry. People who believe fishermen’s tales are
apt to be duped and led into repeated errors. The gull is a surface
feeder. It may occasionally levy toll on useful fish, but to say that
it does any appreciable injury to the fishing business is absurd.

On the other hand, the presence of the gull is essential to man’s
health. While the bird fulfills many useful minor offices—such as
destroying larvee in land along the seaboard and in eating enemies of
fish that are exposed during low tide—its chief function in the
economy of nature is that of scavenger of the harbors and of the
littoral, just as vultures are the scavengers of the mainland. The
wholesale destruction of gulls for their plumage in Yucatan was
followed by a great increase of human mortality among the inhabi-
tants of the coast, which mortality was irrefutably due to the loss
of the birds that had kept the harbors and bays free from the decay-
ing matter which the sea is constantly casting ashore.

I wonder if these men who wish the gull destroyed ever give a
thought to what would happen to their own smelling villages if this
bird was not present to eat the refuse they throw about? Or, again,
if they ever reflect on that feeling of relief they experience when in
thick weather they hear, through the fog, the clamor of these feath-
ered bell buoys, warning them that they are nearing rock or bar?

THE BIRD AS A GUANO PRODUCER.

Now that I am on the subject of pelagic birds, I will speak of
their value as guano producers.

Undoubtedly the present enormous trade in fertilizers owes its
origin to the bird, for the fertilizing properties of the phosphoric
acid and nitrogen contained in fish was not recognized until guano—
which is the excrement of sea birds mixed with fish—became a
stimulus to intensive agriculture.

The value of guano as a fertilizer was known to the people of Peru
in the time of the Incas, though the nineteenth century had dawned
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

before the information was carried to Europe by Humboldt. Under
the rule of the monarchs of old Peru the birds were rigorously pro-
tected and the guano deposits carefully guarded. ‘Three centuries
later these protective measures materialized in a source of revenue to
the country. Generation after generation of sea birds had placed on
their breeding grounds deposits of guano which, in 18538, were
estimated by the Peruvian authorities to be worth $620,000,000.

It is our pleasure to think of the Incas as barbarians and to look
upon their times as dark and rude. In our own enlightened age man
kills at one fell swoop over a quarter of a million sea birds on an
island valuable for its guano deposits.

VALUE OF WILD BIRD LIFE AS A FOOD SUPPLY.

Under certain conditions wild bird life is invaluable to man as a
food supply. The pioneer must—at any rate, at the commencement
of his farming operations—live in great part on the wild products of
the earth. In days gone by the forerunner of civilization could con-
fidently rely on his gun to keep his larder constantly stocked with
edible birds. Now, in many parts of the world, he is confronted
with an alarming scarcity of this kind of food. The great straits to
which the pioneer of the future will be reduced on account of the
present-day slaughter of valuable bird life is foreshadowed by what
is happening to-day in Hudson Bay. Fifty years ago the number
of wild duck in North America was beyond computation. But man
could not slay this bird fast enough to glut his blood lust. Sports-
men, professional hunters, and agents of the millinery interest smote
them by the million. Such blind and wanton butchery could have
but one result. Ducks are now so scarce along the west coast of
Hudson Bay, where there are no moose, caribou are scarce, and the
fishing is poor, that the people living there, who had always depended
on the ducks they could pack away in the autumn, find it difficult
to get sufficient food to carry them through the winter.

THE ZSTHETIC AND SENTIMENTAL VALUE OF BIRDS.

Omitting all mention of various other material benefits which birds
confer on man, I will, before concluding, notice briefly their esthetic
and sentimental values.

Bird life is the part of the creation in which nature has done more
in the way of bestowing mental benefactions on man than in any
other of her works. Unconsciously received, yet born of it, there is
a spiritual teaching, an uplifting influence, in the study of birds
which tends to make a man act more constantly from principle, which
tends to give a new and a more wholesome tone to his whole life.

The companionship of birds affords a happiness as pure, perhaps,
and as permanently exquisite as man in his present state of being can
possibly enjoy. Never came purer joy into my life than when, rising
VALUE OF BIRDS TO MAN—-BUCKLAND. 457

at dawn from my couch of fern, I heard the approach of the coming
day heralded by a chorus of glad bird voices. Never have I experi-
enced emotions which have so lastingly impressed my mind as when,
in the inexpressible mystery of the darkened forest, with the stars
drifting over, I listened to the sublime notes of some feathered
psalmist, itself in night invisible.

The world itself is but an outline sketch; it is the birds which
fill in the details and complete the picture. Towered vapors of the
summer firmament hang on the wall of the sky against a setting
ef immutable blue; the trees are motionless; the glassy waters of the
lake too idle to curve and break upon the shore. Nothing speaks of
life or action. Suddenly, hitherto unseen in leafy tracery, a bird
rushes out and up into the air, telling the sunshine all its joy. One
can almost hear the mechanism start. The world begins to live and
move. What artist is there who does not know this? Even when
painting either of the two most majestic scenes on the earth—the
ocean or the Himalayas—he adds this stimulating power to his
- canvas,

To turn from the palette to the pen, what poet is there who has not
been inspired by birds? From the background of my memory a
thousand instances of such inspiration come leaping forth. Shelley,
Coleridge, and Longfellow, to mention three only of our singers,
have been each rendered immortal in virtue of the power exerted on
their minds by the bird. “Toa Skylark,” “The Ancient Mariner,”
and “The Birds of Killingworth” are poems that are imperishable.

The Mexicans felt the poetry when they looked upon the humming-
birds as emblems of the soul, as the Greeks regarded the butterfly,
and held that the spirits of their warriors who had died in the de-
fense of their religion were transformed into these exquisite creatures
in the mansion of the sun.

Earth holds no joy to the eye more sweet than the sight of one of
these living gems as it flits to and fro with the shrillest vibration
of swiftly beating wings, hovers for an instant in the shade of a
pendulous blossom, shoots out again into the sunshine, darts away
after an insect, wheels round and round in sheer exuberance of
spirit, returns to sip at the nectared cup, then flashes up again, glit-
tering with all the colors of the prism, into its home in the air.

Was all this beauty for no purpose but for the gratification of a
passing fashion? Is man constitutionally unable to realize that in
the beauty of these feathered jewels there is a value greater than
the value that is entered in a ledger? Children gather flowers of
the field, and, presently, their fleeting fancy sated, toss them aside
to wither and die. But the seeds, the roots, remain. The daisy will
bloom another year; the cowslip will stain the meadows yellow as
of yore; but these blossoms of the air will never bloom again.
Once gone, they are gone forever.
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.
CONCLUSION.

Birds unquestionably are one of man’s most valuable possessions,
yet it is just the possession on which he sets the least value.

Wherever there are birds whose plumage is suitable for millinery,
there will the cruel and rapacious agents of the feather dealers be
found engaged in orgies of wasteful destruction. Wherever there
are birds that are classed as “ game,” there hastens the market hunter
to kall, kill, kill, so long as any salable thing remains to be killed.
Wherever there are species that have been harried by man to the
brink of extinction, there will be the collector also, anxious to obtain
the last lingering representatives of a race before his rival gets a
chance to do so. Wherever there are birds whose eggs are valuable,
there hurries the egg collector to destroy not only the embryonic life,
but often the mature life as well by shooting the bird that laid the
ego for the purpose of identification. Wherever in the wild places
of the earth there are birds which are considered to be “ good sport,”
there saunters that vandal of creation, the hunter of means and
leisure, to expend on the most beautiful and the most harmless works —
of nature his instinctive desire to kill.

It is the nature of infamies, as well as of disease whose progress
is not checked, to daily grow worse; and if the present-day wasteful
and depraved practice of denuding the world of one of its most
valuable natural resources is not checked, there will be wrought a
mischief, a universal disaster, more awful in its results than words
can express.

Lonpon, 1914.
EXPERIMENTS IN FEEDING HUMMING BIRDS DURING
SEVEN SUMMERS.

By ALTHEA R. SHERMAN,

National, Towa.

The experiments herein described were begun without intending
them to bear upon the question of the food naturally sought by the
ruby-throated humming bird (Archilochus colubris); the original
aim of the feeding was to attract the humming birds about the yard
in the hope that some time they would remain to nest there. The
experiments have been conducted on independent lines without
knowledge of any similar work that was being done by others until
the autumn of 1912, except in one instance, where special acknowl-
edgments are due Miss Caroline G. Soule, of Brookline, Mass., who
in Bird Lore for October, 1900, described her success in feeding
humming birds from a vial, which she had placed in the heart of an
artificial trumpet flower made from Whatman paper and painted
with water colors. This suggestion of using artificial flowers was
taken, but more durable ones were made from white oilcloth, their
edges were stiffened with one strand of wire taken from picture cord,
and they were carefully painted with oil colors, the first to represent
a nasturtium and the second a tiger lily.

In August of 1907 upon the appearance of a humming bird about
our flowers the artificial nasturtium, tacked to a stick, was placed
near a clump of blooming phlox, and its bottle was filled with a
sirup made of granulated sugar dissolved in water. The next day a
female rubythroat was seen searching the depths of tiger lilies that
grew north of the house; as she flew to the east of the house she was
instantly followed, and was seen drinking from the artificial flower
for the space of about a minute, after which she flew to a rosebush,
wiped her bill, and rested a brief time before flying away. This was
about noon. She returned at intervals of about a half hour for the
next three hours, then at 3.10 o’clock she came back to search quite
thoroughly the phlox blossoms, this being the first time she had paid

1 Reprinted by permission from The Wilson Bulletin No. 85, Vol. 25, No. 4, December,

1913. Copyrighted, 1913, by Lynds Jones. Read at the Thirty-first Annual Congress of
the American Ornithologists’ Union, New York City, Nov. 11, 1913. 459
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

any attention to them after finding the sirup. Ten minutes later
she drank deeply from the bottle and was seen no more that day.

In this way began the feeding of the ruby-throated humming
birds, which has been continued each summer since 1907 with a vary-
ing number of birds. The first season it appeared that but a single
bird found the bottled sweets. Perhaps it was the same bird that
came the following summer, and was not joined by a second hum-
ming bird until the latter part of August. In 1909 the number was
gradually augmented until seven of these birds were present to-
gether. The following year there were days when again seven came
at one time; since then four has been the largest number seen to-
gether.

The days and weeks are calm and quiet ones when a single bird
has the bottles to herself. More or less fighting ensues as soon as
another bird comes on the scene, and the tumult of battle increases
with each new arrival until the presence of six or seven of these tiny
belligerents makes the front yard appear like the staging of a ballet.
With clashing sounds and continuous squeaking cries they chase each
other about, often swinging back and forth in an arc of a circle with
a sort of pendulum-like motion. Sometimes they clinch and fall to
the earth, where the struggle is continued for many seconds. So
jealous are they lest others share the sirup that they seem more
anxious to fight than to drink. When seven are present they are very
difficult to count, and appear to be threefold that number. We
have read accounts of 40 or 100 humming birds hovering about a
tree or bush. Clearly these numbers must have been estimates, prob-
ably large ones, too, anyone must believe who has made sure that
only seven birds have created the maze of wonderful and beautiful
motion in which there seemed to be a dozen or a score of participants.

The number of bottles in use has been sufficient on most days to
satisfy the needs of all the humming birds present. Each new bottle
has been added by way of an experiment. The first one was placed
in an artificial flower painted to imitate a nasturtium, mainly yellow
in color; the second flower in form and color closely resembled a
tiger lily. The experiment with the yellow and the red flowers was
to test a supposedly erroneous theory which had been published to
the effect that humming birds show a preference for red flowers. In
further proof of the fallacy of this statement the third flower, shaped
like the nasturtium, was painted green, and was placed in a bed of
green plants which at that time bore no blossoms. It was pronounced
by other people to be “ exactly the color of the surrounding foliage.”
It was staked out and filled on August 5, 1909, when no humming
bird was in sight, but in about 10 minutes some of the species had
come, and 15 minutes later one was drinking from the bottle in this
green flower.
FEEDING HUMMING BIRDS—SHERMAN. 461

It was then suggested by my sister, Dr. E. Amelia Sherman, that
I try a bottle without an encircling flower. The problem of support-
ing a bottle without an artificial flower was solved in this way: The
bottle was incased in a piece of unbleached muslin, enough of the
cloth extending beyond the bottom of the bottle to allow the tacking
of it to a stick. The support of the bottle in a position slightly up
from the horizontal was furnished by a piece of leather with a hole
in it through which the bottle was thrust, and the leather was then
nailed to the stick. In this arrangement the most vivid imagination
can find no suggestion of a flower. It was put out on August 8, and
in 43 minutes a humming bird was drinking from it. The bottle
was then moved from proximity to the artificial nasturtium and
tiger lily, and a humming bird found it in its new location in 32
minutes. This place about 8 feet from the artificial flowers has been
its position in the four succeeding summers. In July, 1911, two
more flowerless bottles were added to the group, making six in all.
For convenience in referring to them the flowerless bottles will be
called by numbers 4, 5, and 6.

Bottle No. 4 had not been long in use before it was noted that the
humming birds showed preference for it, while the nasturtium was
sought least of all. This seemed due to the deep insetting of the
bottle in the flower, which caused the birds to brush against its lower
leaves, an unpleasant experience when sticky sirup adhered to it.
For this reason the filling of the nasturtium was sometimes omitted
for several days, whereupon the humming birds soon ceased to visit
it, although drinking regularly from the tiger lily a few inches
away. When the filling was resumed the birds returned to it as they
had been accustomed.

In the fourth season of experiments the bottle held by the green
flower was put out when the others were, but was not filled for six
weeks. During that time humming birds were present and drinking
on 23 days. It is safe to say that they were seen drinking fully 400
times from the other bottles, but never once were they seen to ap-
proach the green flower. The first morning it was filled four of them
were about the yard and one drank from this flower two minutes
after the filling. The following year (1911) after dark on July 14
the green-flower bottle was set in its bed of green and was left empty
for a few days. About noon on the 17th one of the rubythroats vis-
ited it, thrusting in her bill; the bottle was then filled for the first
time that year, and in a half minute a bird was drinking from it.
To this is added a transcript from my journal bearing date of July
17, 1912: “About 9 a. m. before I had put out any sirup a humming
bird was dashing from bottle to bottle and tried the green-flower one.
It was bent over in the green foliage, and certainly has had no sirup
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

in it for six weeks or longer. I filled it after I saw the bird visit it,
and she came again to drink.”

The new bottles No. 5 and No. 6, covered like No. 4 with white
muslin and nailed to a weather-beaten fence picket, were put out after
dark on July 23, 1911, but neither was filled for one week. The next
morning about 8 o’clock a humming bird was searching one of these
bottles for suspected sweets; four such visits were noted in one day
and on several other occasions. At the end of the week the filling of
No. 5 began, but no sirup was put in No. 6 for two years. During
these years a record was kept of each time a humming bird was seen
to visit and search this unfilled bottle, and the total number was 15,
in addition to those visits already mentioned.

Thus far this writing has been confined to a description of the
things seen; no theories have been advanced, no deductions have been
made, no hypotheses have been carried to their logical conclusion.
The first deduction offered is that at the beginning of the experi-
ments, in 1907, the artificial nasturtium may have led the humming
bird to explore its depths, and, finding its contents to her taste, she
returned to it. Other birds may have found the sirup there in the
same way, yet it seems more likely that most of them were led to the
bottles by seeing another drinking. This probably was the case with
the catbirds that have drunk from the bottles on several occasions,
although they have found it an inconvenient performance. Thesame
may be true of a pair of chickadees that drank as long as they re-
mained with us. They clung to the stiff leaves of the tiger lily and
found no difficulty in the way of drinking. Only one humming bird
learned to perch on this flower and drink from it while standing.
From the earlier experiments it was suspected that the humming
birds found the sirup through some sense, rather than stumbling upon
it by chance or through imitation, but several things disprove such
a supposition. The principal one is that migrants passing through
the yard in the spring, but more especially in the fall, fail to find the
sirup. That these migrants can be recognized as such by their
behavior will be shown further on.

The 25 or more visits paid to bottles No. 5 and No. 6 before they
were filled for the first time show that the birds recognized them as
receptacles for their food, though they were new bottles occupying
new locations. To make sure that the birds should not be attracted
to them by seeing me stake the pickets out, this work was done after
dark. The first summer that No. 6 was out, frequent pretenses of
filling it were made in sight of the birds, but no response followed.
The next summer no such pretenses were made, yet a humming bird
was seen to search this unfilled bottle on May 12 and 31, twice on
June 1, on July 21 and 26, on August 4, 7, 12, 23, and 26.
FEEDING HUMMING BIRDS—SHERMAN. 463

One is led to wonder if the Homeric gods on high Olympus were
more deeply stirred by the appearance among them of the youthful
Ganymede bearing cups of nectar than are the humming birds at
sight of their cupbearer. When several of them are present the
wildest confusion reigns. Possibly not one of them is in sight when
the door is passed, yet instantly the air seems filled with them; some
swinging back and forth in the air, squeaking and fighting, or dart-
ing from bottle to bottle thrusting in their bills as they pass, while
an overbold one will buzz about my head, sometimes coming under
the porch in her zeal for the meeting; but the timorous ones fly from
their perches into sight over the bottles, then back into a bush. Some
one of these types of behavior marks the bird boarder from the mi-
grant. The latter pays no attention to cupbearer or bottle, but dili-
gently searches each bunch of blossoms. For two or three weeks
after the drinking birds have left there is occasionally a migrant
among the natural flowers. The bottles are full of sirup, but it
passes them unheedfully.

Habits seem to change when steady drinking is practiced, but in
the case of the birds the habit does not appear to be a harmful one.
At once she ceases to search the flowers and, like the typical summer
boarder, she sits and waits for the food to be served. Each bird ap-
pears to have her favorite perch, a dead twig of syringa or lilac
bushes on the north, or on the south in one of the snowball bushes;
the telephone wires on either side of the street offer acceptable wait-
ing places at times. Not infrequently I have been intent upon other
duties about the yard and looking up have found a rubythroat
perched directly overhead, her bright eyes seeming to say “I want to
be fed.” So complete appears the cessation of the search for other
food that it led to the keeping of a full record for the past three
years of every time one of these birds has been seen catching insects
or searching the natural flowers for food. Most of these instances
noted were, if the whole truth could be learned, probably, cases of
strangers just arrived within our gates that had not yet acquired the
drinking habit.

In 1911 the drinking birds were about our place on 43 days. Dur-
ing that time on only four occasions was a humming bird seen catching
insects or probing the flowers. A large number of plants called
“ Star of Bethlehem ” had been raised, these flowers in previous sum-
mers having proved a great attraction to the rubythroat in the yard
of a friend living 2 miles distant; but our drinking birds were never
seen to visit these flowers. After their departure strange humming
birds searched them thoroughly, as well as the phlox, tiger lilies,
sweet peas, nasturtiums, and clover. These strangers were present
on 12 days. In 1912 the drinkers were with us on 77 days, and were
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

seen but 10 times seeking other food than sirup, In 1913 for 49 days
the drinking birds imbibed, and on nine occasions a humming bird
was seen gathering food elsewhere. In the 169 days that make the
grand total for the three summers, the rubythroats were seen drinking
sirup between one and two thousand times; they were seen collecting
food away from the bottles 23 times; but one can not be positive that
insect food was always taken then. Never for an instant was one of
these birds in captivity, and there was the utmost freedom for it in
choice of food.

This choice of a sugar diet, together with the large amount con-
sumed, caused surprise, and soon called forth the estimate that a
humming bird would eat a teaspoonful of sugar in one day. Some
method of testing this estimate was sought, resulting in a plan for
putting the bottles beyond the reach of the ants that swarmed about
them. The stick that supported the artificial nasturtium and tiger
lily was nailed to a block of wood which was submerged in a flowerpot
filled with water. For a short time this arrangement served very
well, until leaves and flower petals fell in, forming rafts upon
which the ants were able to cross. No myrmecologist was at hand to
suggest a remedy, but at last the aversion of ants to kerosene was
recalled, and the water was covered with a film of kerosene, which
effectually debarred them. Nevertheless, one day the ants were
found taking the sirup as of old. An examination of existing con-
ditions showed that a grass stem had lodged against the supporting
stick, forming a bridge over which these wise little creatures were
busily passing to and fro. Except when the bottles were isolated in
this manner ants of various sizes and different colors fed constantly
on the sirup, often crowding a bottle to its very mouth, but this did
not prevent the birds from drinking. I am not prepared to say that
they never took an ant as food, but I have stood as closely as is
possible to a bottle while a humming bird was drinking from it, and
none was taken at such times. When a new bottle was placed, or the
old ones were set out in the spring and filled, it took from one to two
days for the ants to find the sirup. A small red species generally, if
not always, was the ant to make the discovery, the fruits of which it
enjoyed for a very brief season, a large black ant soon taking pos-
session and holding the spoils for the rest of the summer.

The bottles, having been removed from the encroachments of the
ants, were ready for the first test. One bird being the sole boarder
at that time, a level teaspoonful of sugar dissolved in water was
consumed by her daily. In time, two, three, four, and five humming
birds having joined her, the quantity of sugar was increased accord-
ingly, a spoonful or two being added to offset any possible waste.
In this way more than a pound of sugar was eaten in 20 days, or, to be
more exact, three cupfuls, weighing 9,252 grains, which made an
FEEDING HUMMING BIRDS—-SHERMAN. 465

average of 462 grains per day. This for the six birds frequently
counted as present confirmed the first rough estimate of a teaspoon-
ful of sugar daily for each bird.

Another method of estimating the amount eaten was devised.
On several days the sugar and the water were carefully measured
and weighed, then weighed and measured again, after which the
sirup resulting from their combination was also measured and
weighed, until I felt confident that in a dram of the thinnest sirup
served there were 40 grains of sugar, or two-thirds of a gram to
every drop. But the sirup usually used was considerably richer
than this, easily containing a grain of sugar in every drop; but it
seems best in giving the estimates to keep them to the weakest grade
of sirup ever served. )

In making the test a dram of sirup was measured in a glass grad-
uate, and bottle No. 4 was filled. This was always done in the morn-
ing, when the bottle had been emptied by ants. A waiting humming
bird came and took her breakfast, after which the residue of sirup
was poured back into the graduate, the bottle being thoroughly
drained. Possibly a drop still adhered to the bottle, but the number
of minims now in the graduate subtracted from 60 must have given
very nearly the amount drunk by the humming bird. In two sum-
mers a number of these tests were made. A bird took for her break-
fast from 8 to 20 minims, the average being 15. Using the low
estimate of two-thirds of a grain of sugar to each drop, the average
breakfast held 10 grains of sugar. A better comprehension of the
size of that meal may be gained by remembering that two large
navy beans or one medium-sized lima bean also weigh 10 grains.
Breakfast and supper were the rubythroats’ heaviest meals, but there
were many luncheons between them. By reckoning eight to nine such
meals daily (and beyond doubt there were that number), we reach
again the first estimate of 70 to 90 grains of sugar as the daily ration.
About this amount of sugar is held by a common teaspoon when level
full; such a spoon will hold from 110 to 120 minims of water, whereas
one of those heirlooms, a grandmother’s teaspoon, is the measure of
the standard teaspoonful of 60 minims. Referring, then, to the
standard measure, the bird would be said to eat two teaspoonfuls of
sugar daily. An ordinary cube of loaf sugar contains the equivalent
of this amount.

Reflecting upon the bulk consumed by so small a creature, one
naturally desires to know the weight of a humming bird. A little
boy brought to us the body of a male that had been shut into a
machine shed, where its death may have resulted from starvation.
Its weight was 33 grains. Naturalists in early days were vexed by
the same question, as is shown by a quotation given by Mr. Ridgway

44863°—sm 1918-30
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

in his book on humming birds. It is from Philosophical Transac-
tions, 1693, by Nehemiah Grew, who wrote: “I did weigh one (in
those parts) as soon as ever it was killed whose weight was the tenth
part of an ounce avoirdupois.” From these weights one makes the
deduction that our humming birds are accustomed to eat of sugar
twice their own weight daily. If human adults ate of sugar propor-
tional amounts there would be required nearly 300 pounds of this
saccharine food daily for the average person.

No attempt has been made to tame the birds that came to drink,
yet one, perhaps two of them, became bold enough to drink when a
bottle was being filled; while she thrust her bill into the empty re-
ceptacle a spoonful of sirup was frequently held touching the mouth
of the bottle, but she did not learn to drink from the spoon. While
drinking the tongue was extended about a quarter of an inch beyond
the tip of the bill, and two or three drops were sipped before the bill
was withdrawn. Once 15 drops were taken with three insertions of
the bill, and at another time the bird drank without the withdrawal
of her bill for about the duration of a minute. At such times the
bottle was free from ants; probably they were present when the
drinking was done with numerous sips. Often a bird preferred to
take her breakfast in courses, perching on a near-by dead twig for a
minute or two between drinks.

During two of the seasons it was thought that some of the birds
roosted on our place, appearing as they did very early, and making
a long day for feasting and fighting. In other years the birds were
seen to fly eastward at night and their morning arrivals were not so
early. One June morning a bird was ready for her breakfast at 4
o’clock, and took her last drink at night just before the clock struck
8. On some August days there are records of their presence at break
of day; in one case it was 38 minutes before sunrise. They usually
lingered a short time after sundown, drinking long and deeply before
taking their evening departure.

The conviction that the same birds were returning to us summer
after summer began to be felt at the beginning of the fourth season.
On May 26 of that year the first humming bird appeared on the place.
The next day the flowerless bottle No. 4 was put out, and in a few
hours a bird was drinking from it. For the next three weeks she
was seen drinking from this bottle on every day except two, but not
in the middle of the day; then for two weeks she was missed, return-
ing again on the Ist of July.

The history of the fifth season was similar. Humming birds havy-
ing been seen on May 22 bottle No. 4 was staked out and filled for a
few days. No bird coming to drink, the bottle filling had been dis-
continued, when on June 6 a humming bird on suspending wings was
seen searching this bottle. Not finding sirup in it she flew to the
FEEDING HUMMING BIRDS—SHERMAN. 467

spot always occupied by the flowerpot holding the artificial flowers
when they were in place. Over this vacant spot she hovered an
instant before flying away. Ona few other June days a bird of this
species was present and on the 17th one was seen drinking, but her
steady summer boarding did not begin until July 9. In the sixth
spring the species arrived earlier than usual. No bottles were out
on May 7 when a humming bird was seen hovering over the cus-
tomary place for the artificial flowers. As quickly as possible these
flowers were put out, but before they could be filled the bird was
thrusting her bill into the tiger lily. She came to drink on most of
the days thereafter until June 9, also June 14, 15, and 24, and on
July 1 and 2; but it was not until July 16 that she came for constant
drinking.

These dry and dull details have been given in full because two
theories were based on them. That the birds of former years have
returned to be fed seems unquestionable from their searching at once
flowerless bottle No. 4 and from the other evidences offered. That
the birds came in May and at intervals in June and July before
becoming steady boarders about the middle of July, seems to indi-
cate that they nested 2 or 3 miles away, too far for daily trips after
incubation began. The supposition that these nestings were in the
woods is founded on the fact that in leaving the birds flew in that
direction, also because they were never found about the trees of the
four farmyards that intervene between our place and the woods.
That in two summers a mother rubythroat returned with her daugh-
ter was suggested by seeing on several occasions two birds drinking
together from one bottle, a phenomenon that needs explanation when
we consider the pugnacious disposition usually exhibited by one
drinker toward another.

In further confirmation of the foregoing is the history of the
feeding in 1918. Bottles No. 4 and No. 6 were set out on April 30.
For two months and a half no humming bird visited them. It
chanced on July 14 that the stick support of No. 4 was lying on the
ground, leaving only No. 6 in position, when my sister saw a hum-
ming bird thrusting her bill into it. She hastened to fill this bottle,
which was the first time it had ever been filled, and it lacked but
eight days of two full years since it was first set out. Six days later
I was in the orchard a hundred feet or more distant from the bottles,
when a humming bird fiew toward me and buzzed about my head as
do no other birds except those that are fed. With greatly acceler-
ated pulse I hurried to the house and filled the bottles. In exactly
two minutes the humming bird was drinking from one of them; this
was the first drinking witnessed in that year. It was one of my most
thrilling experiences in bird study. Two marvelously long journeys
of from one to two thousand miles each had this small sprite taken
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

since last she had drunk from the bottles, yet she had not forgotten
them, nor the one that fed her. She was quite prone to remind either
of us when the bottles were empty by flying about our heads, wherever
she chanced to find us, whether in the yard or in the street. Once
having been long neglected she nearly flew into my face as I opened
the barn door to step out.

The last experiment made was that of flavoring one of the bottles
of sirup with vanilla, and later with extract of lemon, to see if the
birds showed preference for the plain sirup or for the flavored. Both
kinds were served at the same time, and of both the birds drank,
showing no choice that could be detected.

It may already have been surmised from the gender of the pro-
noun used that it is the female only of this species that has the
“ sweet tooth.” Never once in the seven summers has a male ruby-
throat been seen near a bottle. The drinking birds have been ex-
amined long and critically, with binocular and without, in order to
detect on some of the birds the identification marks of the young
males, but without success; moreover, had young males been present
they, too, would have been apt to return in later years. This absence
of the males led to noting their scarcity in general, and to recording
in notebook when and where a male at any time was seen. The entire
number seen in the past five years has been six on our place and six
elsewhere. It is impossible to do more than estimate the number of
females that have been seen; but when it is remembered that on sev-
eral days in two summers seven have been in sight at one time, it
does not appear to be an overestimate to place their number at
twelve or fifteen for each vear or six times more of them than of
the males.

The simple experiments herein described are such that they may be
tried by any one having a yard frequented by the rubythroat. If
any one doubts that the female of this species will choose a sac-
charine diet, when it is available, let him continue the tests until
convinced beyond cavil or a doubt. It is especially desirable that the
experiments be made in proximity to the nesting birds in order to
see if the mother will feed sirup to her nestlings. Sometimes our
eatbirds and brown thrashers have come into the porch to the cat’s
plate and taken his bread and milk for their nestlings. Upon this
hint for needed aid I have put bread soaked in milk on the fence
railing for them, and they have taken it also. It is reasonable to be-
lieve that in like manner sweet benefactions proffered to a hard-
working humming bird mother might be acceptable to her and
shared by her with her nestlings.
WHAT THE AMERICAN BIRD BANDING ASSOCIATION
“HAS ACCOMPLISHED DURING 1912.7

By Howarp H. CLEAvEs.”

[With 2 plates. ]

Since it is obvious that this report will fall into the hands of
many who are not cognizant of the facts relating to the origin,
growth, and present status of the bird banding movement in Amer-
ica, it might not be amiss to devote a brief space at the outset to a
review of that phase of the subject. The mystery of bird migration
has tickled and agitated the lay mind and engaged the attention of
the ornithologist for we know not how long, and although much has
been ascertained by field observers with regard to dates of arrival
and departure at given points of the majority of migratory species,
practically nothing is known of the movements of individual birds.
Even Audubon became interested in this problem, for we read that
he placed silver wire rings about the tarsi of a brood of young
Pheebes and was rewarded the following year by discovering two
of these birds nesting in the same vicinity. Whether through read-
ing of this interesting incident or hearing of the splendid efforts
put forth by certain Europeans who began banding birds as early
as 1899, or by reason of a spontaneous desire to investigate, it would
be difficult to tell, but the fact remains that not later than 1902 indi-
vidual experimenters in this country engaged themselves in earnest
and comparatively extensive efforts to cast light on the wanderings
of birds by the use of inscribed metal bands or rings.

Not until 1908, however, did anything approaching a concerted
bird banding movement develop. During that year certain mem-
bers of the New Haven (Conn.) Bird Club did a small amount of
banding, but, realizing how unavailing were the efforts of so few,

1Reprinted by permission from The Auk, vol. 30, No, 2, April, 1913. For previous
reports of bird banding work in America see The Auk, vol. 26, No. 2, pp. 137-143, April,
1909, and The Auk, vol. 27, No. 2, April, 1910.

2 Address communications to Howard H. Cleaves, secretary-treasurer, Public Museum,
New Brighton, N. Y.

469
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

decided to carry the cause before the Congress of the American
Ornithologists’ Union at Cambridge, Mass., in November. There
it met with favor and the demand by members of the union for bands
became so pronounced that 5,000 were issued prior to the close of
the nesting period of 1909. Of this number approximately 1,000
were actually placed on birds, and there resulted from these about 30
return records by the end of the year. With interest aroused, the
time seemed ripe to give the movement a more concrete form than
it had hitherto assumed, the result being that some 30 members of
the American Ornithologists’ Union assembled in New York on the
evening of December 8, 1909, and organized the American Bird
Banding Association.

Dr. Leon J. Cole, who had been so successfully pushing the work,
was chosen president, and together with four able colleagues made
up the executive committee. In the spring of 1910, however, Dr.
Cole was permanently called to Madison, Wis., and partly as a
result of his absence, and also on account of the pressing business
affairs of all members of the committee and their widely separated
places of residence, the activities of the association were destined to
meet with a serious setback. Practically nothing was accomplished
during 1910 nor in 1911, but in the fall of the latter year the Lin-
nean Society of New York offered to foster the work, much to the
relief of those previously encumbered with it. A committee (con-
sisting at first of three and subsequently of five) was appointed and
a campaign to raise funds in preparation for the nesting season of
1912 was inaugurated and carried forward with considerable success.

At the outset a change in the type of bands seemed advisable and
after inquiring among as many as six different European bird band-
ing organizations the style used by Country Life, London, was
adopted. Seven thousand five hundred of these bands, of eight dif-
ferent sizes and bearing the inscription “Notify Am. Museum,
N. Y.,” instead of “ Notify The Auk, N. Y.,” were ordered. For the
purpose of keeping an exact record of every band issued a special
ledger was designed and a filing cabinet for record cards and. cor-
respondence was purchased. As the spring of 1912 approached
post cards were sent out requesting that applications for bands be sub-
mitted. So vigorous was the response resulting from these cards
and from notices in The Auk, Bird-Lore, Country Life in America,
and elsewhere, that 4,173 bands were distributed among 44 persons
residing in various parts of the country, and representing such
widely separated territories as Nova Scotia, Montana, and Florida.
All told, 800 of the bands issued this year (1912) have been actually
placed on birds, and some of these have already yielded return
records possessing a high degree of interest. The total number of
BIRD BANDING—CLEAVES. 471

species banded during the past season is 73, of which the following is
a summary:

Number Number
banded banded
Species. in 1912, Species. in 1912,
PRC UNOTNGE oo, Meadowlark. | 225 57 Male deo We 6
Great black-backed gull... | 41 | Western meadowlark __________ 5
TE Masri bares 621010 all CER TR ea NS 2 mOrchard: OTioley sas w ia gedueen era 1
WUe@rsineipe rine ees Lyi Brewer's blackbird). 220 res 18
Perch perrele 282 oe. 2A Purple crackle: {c) eee Hen. 1
AVL CSN CS) as a 20) VELOUSE. ADCDE & ) 349A) Sea eee 1
ESCA SSA OFS es Se 10 | Chestnut-collared longspur___—— 1
TRUST RETA Le A A ll a ce 1 | Western Vesper sparrow___--—— 1
mumenican heeret 220) Jo A 145) House! Sparrow. 22 aoe ae it
ton nesretin Saad Vk 30°) Savannah'sparrow.) 2 20
Mouisina mherone 21 | White-throated sparrow_______— 1
inde blue, heron. =.= =. Lj. Chipping. sparrow. eee 6
TAN 8) 105) 01S (09 0) Aa 2 | Pield spartow.22 4
Black-crowned night heron_____ 10:)) Song. Sparrow) 255 eee 15
Spotceq, Sandpiper 2-2-0 19 | Slate-colored junco ____-_______ 9
Tas GUNG See) Oe USI A NS eae 2) Towhee io): 20) Sees ae ees 2
PUT IOVER et 3) Carding) 2. 82. eee 3
DOME GONe se 4 | Rosebreasted grosbeak_________ ak
Ae Se OLY ake See a ee 4) indigo! bunting {2a Sa sea 3
enimOyglee te ye 6.) Dickeissell. ois ee eee 2
BHereesred \OWwlo 8 || ‘Scarlet tanagers- 2:7 ae 2
PeeReC CEM MO Wile es Te 2) Purple martin. 242222 eee 3
Yellow-billed cuckoo _-_____-____ 3) Barn “Swealllow 2 wel eae eee 49
Yellow-bellied sapsucker _______ ft) Red-eyed) vireo. 2s Tees 3
Red-headed woodpecker________ 2 | Black and white warbler______ if
LOCUST ee 25 |): Yellow; warbler=22: =e hoes a 8
Ohmnneveswitt 22 2 5 ly Myrtle warbler 22000 en ae al
Arkansas kingpird. 9022-22! 10 | Black-throated green warbler___ 1
Great crested flycatcher________ 5 | Louisiana water-thrush__---—__ 3
VETTE DA UE 49)) Gatbird 220 2250 ee Bee 7
Olive-sided flycatcher__.-__-_ 2.) Brown thrasher=) 20 lo. eeseeeen 9
Raligertcyen eee ee 9. | Chickadees_. -o)) 72-2 5
MVeSternerow 9. 2°) Wood thrushi* 3a 4
SU] ULC 0 Aa 2, Bae | Ropm'e 20 2) 2 ee eee 22
Se 2) (Western (robin== 220) eae aR eS 12
Red-winged blackbird_-________ Ay) elaebird sa) euiee iy aes 16
Thick-billed redwing. 8!

The activity of certain of the banders in the field has been remark-
able and their observations often noteworthy. For instance, Mr.
Oscar E. Baynard, in charge of Bird Island in Orange Lake, Fla.,
writes than in placing some 250 bands on white and glossy ibises,
egrets, and Louisiana black-crowned night and green herons it was
necessary for him to wade about up to his knees in soft mud and
guano while the temperature averaged 94° in the shade. Mr. Bay-
nard says further:

I note a white ibis that I banded last year is nesting here this year, although
I can not determine the number. Have noted two long whites nesting here this
year that were here last year—one adult with deformed leg and a youngster
with a deformed foot. This last year’s youngster has a nest of its own this
year and the old one has built in the same bush she used last year. Next year
I will probably be able to note a lot of handed birds returning here to nest.

Mr. A. A. Saunders, of the Forest Service of Montana, is practi-
cally the only person doing any banding work in the West, but he
472 ANNUAL REPORL SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

is a host in himself and loses no opportunity to put his bands to good
use while ranging over his territory. In a letter dated June 25,
1912, Mr. Saunders says:

I was recently told of an incident of a marked bird returning to the place
where it was born, and got as many of the facts as possible, as I believe they
will be of interest to the association. The incident was told me by Mr. E. A.
Woods, a forest ranger on the Lewis and Clark National Forest, and while this
information comes second hand, I believe it is correct. A lady living near
Mountain View, Alberta, just north of the United States boundary, found the
nest of a Canada goose and hatched out the eggs under a hen. The young geese
lived in the barnyard that summer, and one was marked by fastening a bell
around its neck. In the fall, when a flock of migrating geese flew over, the
geese left the barnyard, and joined this flock. Two years later, in the spring,
the goose wearing the bell returned and stopped in: the barnyard for a few days.

Mr. Ernest Harold Baynes, of Meriden, N. H., is one of the most
energetic and faithful banders at present engaged in the work, not-
withstanding his many other activities. He tells of a flock of 125
white-winged crossbills that fed near his home last winter. The
birds were so tame that Mr. Baynes had but to stoop and pick them
up when he wished to place bands on their legs. Members of the
Meriden Bird Club have put up many nesting boxes for chickadees,
bluebirds, ete., and numbers of these small birds have been banded.
Indeed, it goes without saying that any bird that falls into the hands
of Mr. Baynes wears a ring on its leg when released.

Mr. Harrison F. Lewis, of Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, is another who
has accomplished much in the matter of banding the smaller birds.
Mr. Lewis told me that when the school children living in the coun-
try near him heard of his banding work they all set out to find birds’
nests and report them to him. Thus a double end was accomplished—
Mr. Lewis was enabled to band dozens of birds without spending
much of his own valuable time in looking for nests, and, best of all,
the children of the countryside suddenly took a rousing interest in
bird life, although perhaps unwittingly. What these children were
really keen about was to watch the placing of the tiny aluminum
bands on the birds’ legs, but to locate the young birds the nests had
to be found and in order to find the nests it was necessary to follow
the movements and watch the habits of the old birds. It is often
difficult to induce children simply to observe things if they think you
are trying to make them acquire some knowledge by doing so, but here
was a new idea, a material end to be accomplished—something to do.
There is no reason why the work of banding birds should not work
a similar miracle among adults—it adds a vigorous interest to bird
study; arouses latent interest; or even preserves interest when it
tends to wane.

These few cases of the activities of field agents are cited as exam-
ples of what hundreds of ornithologists should be doing throughout
the continent of North America. Bird banding is not the work of a

BIRD BANDING——CLEAVES,. 473

limited circle but the duty of many, and it is only by extensive
banding that results of value can be obtained. Realizing these facts,
it has been thought best to welcome the cooperation of all competent
bird lovers, regardless of the matter of contributions or annual dues.
Anyone deemed properly qualified by the committee may apply for
bands and will receive them. On the other hand it is hoped that
there are enough people who sufficiently appreciate the value of the
work to sustain the necessary financial burden.

A year ago many persons declined to support the work of bird
banding on the grounds that not sufficient results had been obtained
to establish its practicability. The following return records of
banded birds, received within the past 12 months, should rob this
objection of its foundation:

On June 7, 1911, an adult chimney swift fluttered down a chimney
into the study of Mr. Ernest Harold Baynes in Meriden, N. H., and
was promptly banded and released. The band was of the old style
and bore the number 6326. At 8 o’clock p. m. on June 15, 1912, two
chimney swifts flew from the chimney into the same room of Mr.
Baynes’ house where the bird had been caught a year and eight days
before. And lo! when these birds were taken in hand and examined
one of them proved to be 6326. Remarkable as it may seem, this
diminutive creature, less than 6 inches in length, had traveled hun-
dreds of miles to Central America or elsewhere in the Tropics
where he spent the winter and then made the long return journey at
the approach of summer and found again the chimney of his choice
in a village of far-off New Hampshire. And throughout his journey-
ings the little aluminum ring had traveled with him and had pro-
duced not the least effect on the bird’s leg.

Two French Canadians were gunning along a small river near the
hamlet of Whitebread in southwestern Ontario, Canada, on August
5, 1912. Blackbirds, their intended booty, were not numerous and
the men were about to return to camp when one suddenly touched
the other on the arm and said “ You can not hit him!” In answer
to this challenge the second gunner wheeled quickly about and took
a difficult chance shot at a fast disappearing common tern. There
were many terns flying up and down the stream, hovering in the
air and plunging for minnows, and it seems strange that the one shot
should have borne a band on his leg. The finding of that band
resulted in the following letter:

DEAR FRIENDS: AS I have never seen you’s before, but I am writing a few
lines to tell you about a ring or piece of tin I found on a sea gull or sea bird.
There is thousands of them here, but I will not try it again. In examining
the bird I found on the left leg ‘ Notify the Auk or Ark 4590 New York.” So
I am doing so to let you know how far this bird traveled. Well, I will close.

Please write back and let me know if you got this scribbling.

From
Leo Satois, Box 14, Whitebread, Ont.
Avcust 5, 1912.
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

On referring to No. 4590 among the original banding records
it was found that the bird in question had been marked when about
2 weeks old at St. Clair Flats Canal, Mich., on August 13, 1909,
by Mr. S. A. Courtis. By corresponding with Mr. Salois it was
learned that the terns were apparently not nesting at Whitebread,
Ontario, and it is not unlikely that the birds seen there had bred
at St. Clair Flats and were indulging in a little raving after the
nesting season. However this may be, the fact remains that the dead
tern had worn the aluminum anklet for three years minus eight
days; had likely made three round trips to the Gulf of Mexico or
some other place in the ‘Tropics to spend the winter each year since
1909; and was shot but a comparatively short distance from the
spot where he was hatched.

A farmer by the name of August Schilling, of Evansville, Il., was
walking across his fields on April 1, 1912, when he frightened a
butcher bird from a fence post, where it had been feeding on what
proved to be a bluebird. On picking up the victim and scrutinizing
it Mr. Schilling was astonished to discover that the bird wore a ring
on its right leg, and that the ring bore an inscription, He wrote a
letter to The Auk, New York, giving the number of the band, and
asked for information, saying:

Please let me know when the band was put on. There are lots of people
would like to know.

This particular bluebird was one of a brood banded by Dr. R. M.
Strong, of the University of Chicago, at West Allis, Wis., on July
5, 1909. The band had been carried for two years and nine months,
and had apparently caused no inconvenience. It is probable that
this bluebird had made two complete migrations to the south, and
was about to complete the last lap of a third when he was so unfor-
tunate as to cross the path of Lanius borealis.

The letters sent in by persons who have come into possession of
banded birds are often intensely interesting, containing information
regarding the conditions under which the bird was secured that
makes a story of unique character when one goes to the filing cabinet,
picks out the banding record, and puts the two halves of the tale
together. The following is a good example: The owner of a rice
plantation on the Lower Cambahee River, Colleton County, S. C.,
sent in word that on November 2, 1912, his “bird minder” (a man
stationed with a gun in the “rice yard” for the purpose of keeping
birds away from the grain) had shot a number of red-winged black-
birds and was preparing them for a potpie when he came upon one
wearing a small metal band on its leg. What could be more fraught
with interest? The man had, of course, given the number of the
band, and we at once picked out the card bearing the record of band-
ing, and supplied the other end of the story. We found that the bird
BIRD BANDING—-CLEAVES. 475

was banded as a fledgling by Mr. Harry 8S. Hathaway at Quonochou-
taug, Charlestown, R. I., on June 8, 1912. On being notified of the
“return” Mr. Hathaway wrote:

I well remember this young red wing. I was wading through a eat-tail
swamp, looking for redwings’ nests, when I spied him clinging to a cat-tail
about 2 feet from the water. I made a grab and had him in my hand and a
band on in a jiffy. A toss in the air, and he awkwardly flew some 20 feet, and
succeeded in grasping an upright cat-tail, and clung there while I went on.

Who would have supposed that the young redwing, reared in a
Rhode Island cat-tail swamp in June, would end his career in a pot-
pie in South Carolina five months later ?

Almost every record that has come in is characterized by some dis-
tinguishing feature and would furnish reading matter as interesting
as the several returns cited above. Lack of space, however, prevents
the publication of these embellishments, although the reader may
gather much from the banding and return records in their condensed
form at the end of this paper. The percentage of returns, contrary
to the predictions of some, has indeed been encouraging; and the
point that should be emphasized in connection with these is that they
have not in a single instance been due to the handicapping of the
birds by the bands. This is proved, firstly, by the fact that the
bands have been carried by the birds for such long periods; secondly,
by reason of the very conditions attending the taking of each bird;
and thirdly, by the fact that the presence of the band on the bird’s
leg was not in a single case detected until the bird was taken in the
hand and examined, and therefore could not possibly have prompted
anyone to kill the bird for the purpose of recovering the band and
satisfying his own curiosity. This sort of thing, by the way, is and
should be strongly denounced and discouraged. It is rather the
interest in watching for banded birds and even photographing them
that should be encouraged.

It would not be wise to spring at conclusions with regard to the
significance and meaning of the return records that have thus far
been secured. The fact that Mr. Baynes’s chimney swift returned to
its old stand after an absence of nearly a year in the Tropics is sig-
nificant in itself; but before stating chat, barring accident, chimney
swifts invariably return year after year to the same chimney it
would be advisable, not to say necessary, to obtain a dozen or even
a hundred similar records as corroborative evidence.

Beyond a doubt the greatest progress in the work of banding birds
in America has been made during the year just past, but the pace
established in that time must be not only maintained, but greatly
increased. Our interest and enthusiasm must not decline for a mo-
ment; the work and aims of the American Bird Banding Association
must receive the most zealous support that American ornithologists
are capable of imparting.
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Return records.

(a) The returns in this division are from the old lot of bands issued by

Dr. Cole in 1909.

7287. Herrina Guiy. Larus argentatus.

Banded at Falls Pond, Hamilton
County, N. Y., by Francis Harper.

June 27, 1910.

Downy young.

4590. Common TERN. Sterna hirundo.

Banded at Saint Clair Flats Canal,
Mich., by S. A. Courtis.

August 13, 1909.

About two weeks old. ‘On bare
sandy island left from dredging of
new canals. Birds from one to
four weeks of age found there.”—
S. A. C.

Recovered at Barnegat Inlet, N. J.,
by William H. Lewis.

September 11, 1911.

Found alive, but apparently sick, on
the shore.

Recovered at Whitebread, Ontario,
Canada by Leo Salois. :

August 5, 1912.

Shot. Birds did not seem to be
breeding here and probably wan-
dered over from Saint Clair Flats
after the breeding season.

6625. Sporrtrep SANDPIPER. Actitis macularia.

Banded at House Is. (Four Bros.
Islds.), Lake Champlain, N. Y., by
Francis Harper.

July 7, 1910.

Downy young “caught on July 8
and July 9, examined and found to
‘be in good condition.”—F.. H.

Recovered at Squantum, Mass., by
Hayden Crocker.

September 6, 1910.

Shot among a flock of smaller sand-
pipers “on a mudbank in a salt
marsh. Did not notice band on leg
until I was dressing bird.”—H. C.

5557. NORTHERN FLIcKEeR. Colaptes auratus luteus.

Banded at Logan Park Cemetery,
Sious City, La., by Prof. 'T. C.
Stephens.

June 11, 1910.

Male nestling, one of a brood of
seven.

6326. CHIMNEY Swirt. Chetura pelagica.

Banded at Meriden, Sullivan Co.,
N. H., by Ernest Harold Baynes.

June 7, 1911.

Adult: “ This bird and another came
down the chimney and into my
study at 8S p. m. It was almost
dark when we liberated them.”—
BE. H. B.

Recovered at Bayard, Kans., by I.
Decker.

November 20, 1910.

Captured in a barn; injured in cap-
turing and afterwards killed.
Band was not noticed until the
bird was dead.

Recovered at Meriden, Sullivan Co.,
N. H., by Ernest Harold Baynes.

June 15, 1912.

Caught in a room. “The leg to
which the band was attached ap-
peared normal in every way.’—
LONE ul sy

955. ReED-WINGED BLACKBIRD. Agelaius pheniceus pheniceus.

Banded at Berwyn, Chester, Co.,
Pa., by Leonard S. Pearson.

June 6, 1909.

Pledgling; “had just left nest.”—
IUash et

tecovered at Lansdowne, Delaware
Co., Pa., by H. L. Henry.

September 1, 1909.

Shot.
BIRD BANDING—CLEAVES. 477

58388. Frevp Spagrow. Spizella pusilla pusilla.

Banded at Sioux City, Ia., by Prof.

T. ©. Stephens.
June 11, 1910.
Fledgling.

Recovered at Sioux City, Ia., by A.
Kirkegaard.

May 28, 1911.

No information as to how it was
obtained.

$429. WESTERN House WREN. T'roglodytes aédon parkmani.

Banded at Milwaukee, Ore., by Wil-

liam L. Finley.
July 31, 1909.
Nestling.

Recovered at Woodburn, Ore., by
son of J. G. Martzoff.

June 26, 1910.

Found in watering tank. Woodburn

is about 30 miles south of Mil-
waukee.

251. Rosin. Planesticus migratorius migratorius.

Banded at Kingston, R. I. (Orchard
of Agricultural College) by Leon
J. Cole and Wm. F. Kirkpatrick.

August 4, 1908.

Half-fledged bird from “nest about “Presence of band was unknown
10 ft. up in an apple tree.”— until bird was in the hand. Speci-
1 OS Cx OH men taken to aid in pathological

work at station. Band had caused
no abrasion or other injury to
foot.”—L. J. C.

Recovered at Kingston, R. I. (Poul-
try plant of Agricultural College)
by Wm. F. Kirkpatrick.

April 9, 1909.

1212. Rosin. Planesticus migratorius migratorius.

Banded at Bangor, Me., by Ora Wil- Recovered at Nashville, Tenn., by

lis Knight. J. G. Jenkins.
July 8, 1910. February 21, 1911.
“Young bird found on ground barely ‘“* Captured.”

able to fly. Banded and re-
leased.”—O. W. K.

2376. RosBin. Planesticus migratorius migratorius.

Banded at Westbrook, Cumberland Recovered at Westbrook, Cumber-
Co., Me., by Arthur H. Norton. land Co., Me., by Arthur H. Nor-
July 21, 1909. ton.
Nestling. July 27, 1909.
Killed by a cat at night; bird left
the nest July 27.

1271. Rosin. Planesticus migratorius migratorius.

Banded at Portland, Me., by Ora — Recovered at Portland, Me., by Chas.
Willis Knight. E. Foss.
July 29, 1912. August 3, 1912.
Fledgling, just out of the nest. Killed by a cat on a lawn ‘“‘two
and a half blocks north of spot
where bird was banded.”—O. W. K.
478

2816. BiurpirD. Sialia sialis sialis.

Banded at West Allis, Wis., by Dr.
R. M. Strong.

July 5, 1909.

Nestling; “one of a brood of sev-
eral.”—R. M. S.

63802. BLursreD. Sialia sialis sialis.

Banded at Meriden, Sullivan Co.,
N. H., by Ernest Harold Baynes.

June 3, 1911.

About two weeks old; “one of a
family of five in an unpainted
wooden box, on the corner of an
old shed.’—H. H. B.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION » 1918.

Recovered at Evansville, Randolph
Co., [il., by August Schilling.

April 1, 1912.

Killed by a Northern Shrike, Lanius
borealis.

Recovered at Berlin, Md., by son of
a millhand in the employ of
Charles W. Tingle.

January 20, 1912.

Shot together with others of a flock
of Bluebirds.

(b) The following have resulted from the new lot of bands issued in the

spring of 1912.

5804. GREAT BLACK-BACKED GULL. Larus marinus.

Banded at Lake George, Yarmouth
Co., N. S., by Howard H. Cleaves.

July 28, 1912.

Fledgling.

5830. GREAT BLACK-BACKED GULL.

Banded at Lake George, Yarmouth
Co., N. S., by Howard H. Cleaves.

July 26, 1912.

Fledgling; “a few of these birds
(about three dozen were banded)
were seen later from my blind.
They paid no attention to the
bands.” —H..H. C.

5832. Great BLACK-BACKED GULL.

Banded at Lake George, Yarmouth
Co., N. S., by Howard H. Cleaves.

July 27, 1912.

Fledgling.

7115. Preine Prover. Agialitis meloda.

Banded at Katama, Martha’s Vine-
yard, Mass, by Howard H.
Cleaves.

July 3, 1912.

Three days old, one of a family of

three.

Recovered at Mavillette, Digby Co.,
N. S., by Frank S. Doucet.

December 18, 1912.

Caught alive. ‘“‘Bird seemed half
tame, due probably to some ail-
ment. Band moved easily up and
down the tarsus,’—F. D.

Larus marinus.

Recovered at Cape Negro Is., Shel-
burne Co., N. 8., by Ashley Smith.

October 4, 1912.

Shot by Mr. Smith when gunning.

Larus marinus.

Recovered at Prout’s Neck, Cumber-
land Co., Me., by G. Clifford Libby.

December 6, 1912.

Found dead on the beach.

Recovered at south shore of Mar-
tha’s Vineyard, Mass.

August 2, 1912.

Shot by a boy.
‘LOO4 NO GNVG HLIM 11N5H GaNovg-NOvV1g ONNOA *S
"ANO109 (VILOOS VAON) 3DHO3S5 3XV7] 3SHL NI ST11N5H GsaNovg-NoOv1g ONIGNVG "}

“| Siv1d *S8ARa|D—'E16| ‘HOday URlUOsY}IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cleaves. PLATE 2.

1. YOUNG MourRNING DOVES, BANDED AT STATEN ISLAND, N. Y.
2. CHIMNEY SWIFT, BANDED AT MERIDEN, N. H.
3. BARN OWL, BANDED AT STATEN ISLAND, N. Y.
BIRD BANDING—CLEAVES. 479

12. ReD-WINGED BLACKBIRD. Agelaius pheniceus pheniceus.

Banded at Quonochoutaug, Charles-
town, R.1., by Harry S. Hathaway.

June 8, 1912.

Fledgling; “caught with the hands
and when released alighted on a
eat-tail.’—H. S. H.

6261. PHa@BE. Sdayornis phebe.

Banded at Meriden, Sullivan Co.,
N. H., by Ernest Harold Baynes.

June 6, 1912.

Adult, nest in old house in Corbin
Park.)

Recovered at Green Pond, Colleton
Co., S. C., by Thomas Grant.

November 2, 1912.

Shot by a “bird minder.” (“A
small blackbird known as the red-
winged blackbird, in the fall very
destructive to rice.’”’)—D. J. Chap-
lin, owner of plantation.

Recovered at Meriden, N. H., by
Mrs. Ernest Harold Baynes.

July 14, 1912.

Found dead beneath nest; “could
assign no cause for death. As
far as I could see the presence
of the band had had nothing to
do with the case. The bird had
laid one egg of the second set.”’—
1 8 Oa) Be

Explanation of plates.

Prarn a:

Fic. 1. Banding young black-backed gulls (Larus marinus) in the Lake
George, Nova Scotia, Colony, July 25, 1912. Photograph by G. K. Noble.
Fic. 2. Banded young black-backed gull, Lake George, Nova Scotia, 1912.

PLATE 2.

Fic. 1. Two young mourning doves (Zenaidura macroura carolinensis) banded

at Staten Island, N. Y. City, May, 1912.

most likely to produce return records.

Game birds or others shot for food are

Fic. 2. Chimney swift (Chetura pelagica) banded at Meriden, N. H., in June,
1911, and returned, after wintering in the tropics, to his old chimney in New
Hampshire, June, 1912. Photograph by Ernest Harold Baynes.

Fic. 3. Old barn owl (Aluco pratincola) and her five young banded at Staten
Island, N. Y. City, June, 1912. Only one pair of these birds is known to nest
each year on the island, and banding is likely to cast light on the problem of

dispersal of the young.
feo Pe "
; ws aes bi is
OSES. Hilt she Bites 1 8G ei
OF, iy cova bolt crait Ayia - ahs ie
Lame ot ba:

eae Beier nid. recat arwetn deed N
iia wt o) rigor sit ot gurieiiiae udbtat
ae Resale csist bloreli: tone wt shyergodst ARE
cone Banyo Tait Bate wl: hebharieg Ooty, Tage
wht 3 ‘shiny “agro NEY Ata ong ee
canis? bo iim ane

Sane < ‘ a
pS SRR OS
&. . a a

THE WHALE FISHERIES OF THE WORLD.
By CHARLES RABOT.

[With 3 plates. ]

After -a long period of decadence the whale fishery has again
experienced a considerable revival. In all parts of the world, at
the present time, this interesting industry is being actively carried
on, and, peeling to the Norwegian Fisheries Gazette (Norsk
ele hdende). not less than 20 000 cetaceans are captured every
year, so that the disappearance 3 these great marine mammals in
the near future seems certain.

Never very abundant, the right whales, that is the Arctic right
whale, or Greenland whale, and the North Atlantic right whale, or
Nordcaper, of which the oil served to light the way of our ancestors
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and of which the whale-
bone was used to shape the figures of our great-great-grandmothers,
have become very rare. In our time the Greenland whale is not regu-
larly hunted except in Davis and Lancaster Straits, in Hudson Bay,
and on the northwest coast of North America about Point Barrow.
Even in those places it is no longer abundant. In 1910 the vessels
from Dundee, which alone visited Davis Strait, took only 17 whales,
in 1908 and in 1909 about 15, so that in spite of the high prices paid
for the whalebone of this species, sometimes as much as $8,000 a
ton, the Scotch whalers were frequently obliged to abandon their
enterprise.

On the northwest coast of America the Greenland whales appear
more numerous. No statistics of the fishery in this region are avail-
able, but the data now at hand indicate that the results in 1909 and
1910 were excellent. In 1910, one vessel harpooned 15 of these huge
cetaceans in this locality, and a second reported a cargo of whale-
bone worth $130,000.

The second species of right whale, the North Atlantic right whale
or Biscay whale, is at present scarcely more abundant than the Green-
land whale. It was, indeed, believed to be extinct, when one was
harpooned near Iceland in 1888, and another the following year, five

1 Translated by permission of the author, from La Nature, Paris, Sept. 14, 1912.
44863°—sm 1913——31 481
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

in 1890, and seven in 1891. Since then some of these whales have
been captured from time to time in the North Atlantic. Further-
more, in later years a certain number of right whales of other species,
regarding which no statistics have been published, have been taken
in the South Seas.

In contrast with the foregoing, finbacks and humpbacks abound
in all seas, such as the blue whale (Balenoptera sibbaldii), the
rorqual (B. musculus L.), the Pollack whale (B. borealis), the com-
mon humpback (J/egaptera nodosa), and many other less well-
known species. These cetaceans are at present relentlessly pur-
sued for commercial purposes. The finbacks present this special
difference from the right whales, that they have only short whale-
bone, and consequently less value. By way of compensation, all the
other parts furnish remunerative products. The fat of these mam-
mals yields a good
quantity of oil, and
the residue of the dis-
tillation, together with
the flesh, serve for
the manufacture of a
“ouano” when the
carcasses are reduced
toapowder. Finally,
the meat is used for
food.

This finback whale
fishery began 47 years
ago on the northern
coast of Scandanavia,
and was due to the
ingenuity of the celebrated Norwegian sailor, Svend Foyn. To the
inventive spirit of this man are due the destructive machines now in
use, which are boats of 100 to 150 tons, very speedy and carrying at
the bow a gun that throws a harpoon to which a line is attached; in a
word, the same system as that of the canon-porte-amarres. With this
armament Svend Foyn in 1867 captured his first whale, and in the
first year took 30. Less than 15 years afterwards the fortunate in-
ventor found himself possessed of more than $2,000,000. Encouraged
by this example, companies were organized to exploit this source of
profit, to such an extent that in 1887 there were no less than 35 whal-
ing vessels on the coast of Finmark—that is, on the portion of the
Norwegian coast between Hammerfest and the Russian frontier. In
good years they captured from 1,200 to 1,800 finbacks. Soon, how-
ever, the inhabitants of this region made a violent protest against
this new industry, which they asserted threatened to ruin them.

FIG. 1.—MAP OF WHALING STATIONS IN AFRICA.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Rabot. PLATE 1.

COMMON FINBACK WHALE.

SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE.

NORTH AMERICAN HUMPBACK WHALE.
WHALE FISHERIES—RABOT. 483

Every spring great schools of codfish arrive on this coast in pursuit
of the capelan, on which they feed and which approach the land to
escape them. The cod are very fond of these little fish, and the
fishermen assert that the whales also pursue them, and that the
capelan, in order to escape, seek refuge in the shallow waters along
the coast, thereby bringing the codfish near to land. The whales,
becoming less numerous on account of the destructive fishery which
is carried on for them, the capelan find themselves less actively pur-
sued and remain offshore, along with the codfish, if we may credit
the statement of the natives. In consequence, the cod fishery, which
is the principal resource of Finmark, becomes more difficult and more
precarious. The natives do not hesitate to impute the bad results
of many seasons during the last decade to the whalers. Researches
conducted by the most competent zoologists, however, indicate that
no relation of cause and effect exists between the destruction of the
whales and the greater or less abundance of codfish on the coast of
Finmark. The fisherman did not on that account abandon their
fixed idea, and as a result of their violent agitation the Norwegian
Parliament prohibited whale fishing on the northern coast for a
period of 10 years, beginning with 1904.1

While this discussion was going on the Norwegian whalers estab-
lished themselves little by little on all the coasts frequented by the
finbacks in Iceland, the Faroe Islands, Newfoundland, Japan, South
Africa, and, finally, in the Antarctic. Everywhere this industry
is carried on by the fishermen of Sandefjord and Ténsberg, the
home of Svend Foyn. Companies are formed in America or in
Africa by means of local capital, but it is to the men of Sandefjord
or Ténsberg that they confide the management of the enterprise,
and it isfrom among them that they recruit their personnel. Finally,
when, as in Japan, native fisheries are established, it is still to the
Norwegian shipyards that they turn for the construction and equip-
ment of the whaling vessels. For this reason every year the Nor-
wegian Fisheries Journal publishes interesting statistics of the whale
fishery, by the aid of which we are able to present a summary of the
results of this interesting industry in 1911 throughout the world.

In Europe there are but four places in which the fishery is carried
on: The coast of the British Isles, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, and
Spitzbergen. Seven companies, employing 16 steamers,? operate on
the coast of Great Britain, four at the Shetlands, one at the Heb-
rides, and two on the west coast of Ireland. In 1911 they caught
632 whales* (355 at the Shetlands, 146 at the Hebrides, and 131 off
Ireland), while in the preceding years the number taken rose to

1 This prohibition, ending this year, was prolonged.

2Seventeen in 1913,
*In 1913 the cateh was 548.
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

735 or 745. During the last year (1911), the product of the fisheries
did not exceed 3,355 metric tons of oil, consequently the amount per
whale was not more than 209.5 tons, while in 1910 it was 221 tons
and in 1909, 297.5 tons. This circumstance is not due to a decrease
in the number of whales, but to bad weather and to the inexperience
of the gunners employed on several steamers. It is interesting to
note that in the waters of Great Britain 17 Atlantic right whales
were captured in 1910, 20 in 1907, and 6 in 1906. It was a capture
well worth while, as the whalebone of this species is worth from
$5,000 to $10,000 a ton.2

At the Faroe Islands there are six companies with 15 steamers.
In 1911 their booty was only 344 finbacks and two sperm whales.
In 1907 the number was double. This capture of sperm whales was
a fortunate circumstance. In one of them two pieces of ambergris
were found weighing 17.5 kilograms and valued at $10,500. In 1910
one Atlantic right whale was also captured in this region.?

In Iceland there are also six companies, with about 25 steamers.’
According to the statistics, which are incomplete, only 350 were
taken in 1911, while in the preceding year double that number were
obtained, and 843 in 1907. This ground, therefore, seems exhausted
or at least less rich than formerly. Several of the companies were
dissolved and others abandoned this region to reestablish themselves
in the South Seas, where the results are far more remunerative.

Immediately after the prohibition of whaling on the northern
coast of Norway, several companies were established at Spitzbergen.
In 1907 there were six companies with 13 steamers, and a seventh at
Bear Island with two boats. That year, on account of the large
amount of ice in these two localities, only 333 finbacks were taken.
Since that date most of the companies have abandoned this archi-
pelago and only two remain in Isfjord, one at Green Harbor and the
other at Safe Harbor. In 1910 they caught 165 whales and in 1911
144 more, one of which was a Greenland whale. This very rare
species was obtained off the northwest point of Spitzbergen,* in 80°
north latitude. In 1913 there was a catch of 845 whales in the North
Atlantic and Arctic Oceans from the English Channel to Spitz-
bergen.

In Asia the principal center of the whale fishery is in Japanese
waters where it has been practiced from a very early day. Twenty
or twenty-five years ago, in consequence of the introduction of the
new apparatus, this industry developed rapidly. It was at first in
the hands of the Norwegians, but little by little, owing to the boun-
ties given by the Imperial Government, the Japanese superseded

1The price of whalebone has since lowered.

2In 1913 there were only two companies at Faroe Islands.

3Three companies only in 19138. The companies are moving toward the eastern regions.
“There is no more whale fishery (1913) at Spitzbergen.

a
yoornyO “aq, Aq ydersojoyd wory

“SONVIS| GNVILSHS 3HL YVAN SAIVHM ONISVHO

G SLVId ‘joqey— e161 ‘Hoday ueiuosyyiwsg
‘UAWVALS JIVHM VY—'S ‘DIS "ASVHO 3HL Y314V LYOd OL NYNLAY—'S ‘Ol4

‘yeoH aq Aq ydeasojoyd wom
"NSDYSEZIIdS “YOSUVH N3SY5) LV NOILVLS ONITVHAA NVISSAMYON—'| “SIS

ce ee

eer pe

"§ 3ALV1d ‘yoqey—'e16| ‘HWoday ueiuosyyiws
WHALE FISHERIES—RABOT. 485

them, though taking care to retain the more capable gunners. There
are at present in Japan seven native companies with 28 vessels. In
1909 the most important of them, which alone possessed 20 steamers,
captured 605 whales. The preceding year, the Japanese harpooned
784 whales. In 1911 one Russian whaler operated in the vicinity of
Saghalin and Bering Strait, but the venture was scarcely profitable,
as but six whales were taken.

In North America whales are pursued on the west coast of Green-
land, at Newfoundland and in the mouth of the St. Lawrence, and
on the coast of British Columbia. Last year (1911) finbacks were
hunted for the first time on the west coast of Greenland, but the
results were not very satisfactory, as only 24 whales were taken. At
Newfoundland 274 whales were harpooned in 1910, and in the vi-
cinity of the-island and in the mouth of the St. Lawrence the results
of the fishery were also mediocre. On the coast of Alaska, on the
contrary, the number of whales taken in 1910 amounted to 1,300.
In 1911, up to July 1, the catch of three steamers only was 247. In
1912 two companies with five steamers were operating. The catch
was 644 whales.

In South America, one station was established in 1911 and four
in 1912 on the coast of Brazil, another at the Falkland Islands, and
in 1918 two more stations were established there, one company
taking 87 whales; while on the coast of Chile three companies
operated in 1911 and ten in 1912.

Since 1908 South Africa has become one of the most productive
centers of the whale fisheries. South of 12° 30’ south latitude not
less than 12 stations have been established. Five of these, with 10
steamers, are located in Angola, at Bahia de Lobito, at Elephant
Bay, at Mossamedes, at Port Alexandria, and at Tiger Bay. On the
coast of Cape Colony are two stations with four vessels, one at
Saldana Bay, and the other at Mosser Bay; also in Natal, near
Durban, three companies with nine steamers, and finally in Mozam-
bique Channel, two stations, with four boats at Inhambane and at
Angoche.

In 1911, these 12 stations produced not less than 17,000 metric tons
of oil. According to the Norwegian Fisheries Journal four com-
panies alone captured 1,472, and it would not be excessive to estimate
the number taken during the last season around South Africa at
2,000; there were 23 stations around that coast in 1912.

The destruction of whales in the Antarctic has been much greater.
In 1911 not less than 10,000 finbacks and humpbacks were killed in
the Antarctic Seas around South America. It was following the
exploration carried on between 1901 and 1903 by Prof. Otto Nor-
denskj6ld in the land situated south of Cape Horn that the whalers
took their way to the South Polar Seas, a proof, it may be said in
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

passing, that these scientific enterprises often lead to profitable
economic results. In the course of this expedition Larsen, the
captain of the Swedish exploring vessel, an experienced whaler,
observed the presence of numerous humpbacks about South Georgia,
and in December, 1904, he established himself on the island to hunt
these whales. The enterprise having proved a complete success,
others followed his example. In 1911 six companies with 18 boats
operated on this island and all were extremely successful. As the
Norwegian Fisheries Journal points out, there is in this region a
truly extraordinary abundance of whales, and the number of ceta-
ceans, chiefly humpbacks, taken at South Georgia during the last
season is estimated at the enormous number of 7,000. Of 970 whales
taken by one company 937 were humpbacks.

The sulphurbottoms and common finbacks are both very abundant,
but, because they are more combative and more difficult to kill,
they are less disturbed. When the supply of humpbacks diminishes
their turn will come. Every year some right whales are captured
in this locality. During the southern summer of 1908-1909, 69 of
them were taken.

The 7,000 whales above mentioned produced 34,000 metric tons of
oil, or double the production for the whole world only four years
previously. This enormous quantity would fill a basin in which a
whaler—that is to say, a steamer of from 100 to 120 tons—could
maneuver.

On South Georgia, which was previously uninhabited, actual in-
dustrial villages have been established. A church has been erected.
and there are three slips for cutting up the whales, two guano fac-
tories, reservoirs for the oil, and houses for the staff. This Antarctic
island has a floating population of many hundreds of sailors and
workmen. A doctor resides there during the whaling season and,
since 1908, the British Government has established a post office in
this polar land.

Farther to the south, in the region situated west of Cape Horn,
and explored by Dr. Charcot with so much profit to science, a new
whaling ground not less rich has been discovered. In 1907 the
whalers who operated in the Strait of Magellan conceived the idea
of pushing forward to the South Shetlands. They soon took up the
enterprise and in a few weeks made 374 captures, including 73 right
whales. Such success attracted much attention, and the following
year four companies sent their steamers to Deception Island, in the
archipelago. They captured not less than 2,000 whales, according
to Dr. Charcot. In 1910 they obtained only 1,461 whales, chiefly
humpbacks. In the meantime the whaling had become very difli-
cult. The whales had, so to speak, completely deserted the waters
of Deception Island, where they had previously been so abundant,

WHALE FISHERIES—-RABOT. 487

and had withdrawn far toward the southwest into the Strait of
Gerlache. The whalers sought to recover them and had no cause to
regret their labors. The strait literally boiled with whales, so much
so that in a single day a boat would capture six or eight of them.

In 1911 this industry received a new extension. Last year the num-
ber of boats in this region increased to 22, belonging to eight differ-
ent companies. In this season as in the preceding one the Strait of
Gerlache was the principal center of operations and Port Lochroy
the anchorage discovered by Charcot. In Wiencke Island was the
general rendezvous of the whalers in this region. The hydrographic
surveys executed by the French Antarctic expedition thus served the
interests of commerce.

ai = =

‘ ve me a

Aes

Ne

C Horn

Détroit de Drake

at
Orcadesé du Sud

ge

Shetlands duSud oP4dnirsity Bay

‘ 4 TFalliéres
‘Charcot ~TAlexandne

& jo 60

FIG. 2.—MAP OF WHALING STATIONS IN THE ANTARCTIC OCEAN.

According to many accounts, the strait was full of whales, to use
the picturesque expression of the Norwegian Fisheries Journal, and
every day they were killed without mercy, so that for quite a long
period one oil works was being replenished constantly by new sup-
plies and manufactured as much as 68,000 kilos of oil in a day. The
result of the season’s work was represented by 16,061 tons of oil fur-
nished by 3,000 whales, of which 17 were right whales.

In 1913 nine companies with 32 steamers were established in the
South Shetlands. They caught more than 3,000 whales.

To conclude the enumeration of the whaling ground we will men-
tion Kerguelen Island. In 1908-9 a Norwegian company established
in this archipelago captured 232 whales, among them one right
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

whale. The following season was much less favorable, only 82 fin-
backs having been taken, and in 1910-11 the total captures did not
exceed 87. Furthermore, during these two last years some of the
steamers belonging to the South African companies went to Ker-
guelen Island. In 1910 one of these harpooned 41 whales.
Approximately, then, in 1911 there were 3,000 whales taken in the
seas of Europe and North America, about 2,000 in South Africa, and
10,000 in the Antarctic, making a total of 15,000 whales, but this
estimate is much too small, since neither Japan nor South America
is included in the calculation. For the last season, 1911, the produc-
tion of oil is estimated by the Norwegian Fisheries Journal at 102,000
metric tons, or twice the production of 1910. Nevertheless, prices did
not decline. Indeed, for a certain time they were very high, vary-
ing at Christiania from 56 centimes to 61 centimes per kilogram.

Fic. 3.—_MAP OF WHALING STATIONS IN THE ARCTIC OCEAN.

The price of guano was also very firm, and the whalebone of the
finbacks was in much demand. That of the sulphurbottom and
the common finback varied from 1,893 francs, 75 centimes, to 1,767
francs, 50 centimes, per ton, while the whalebone of the humpbacks
did not bring more than 883 francs, 75 centimes. On the contrary,
the whalebone furnished by the right whale brought only from
30,000 to 35,350 francs per ton, a very low price for this article,
which is usually so much in demand.

The stability of prices gave a new impulse to the whaling industry.
At the end of 1911, 15 important new Norwegian companies were
formed and, in addition, a much larger number of smaller compa-
nies. Four of them intended to operate on the coasts of South Africa,
which would bring the number of those established in this region
up to 20; two intended to locate in Alaska and eight in the seas of
New Zealand and Australia. Finally, one company proposed to
WHALE FISHERIES—RABOT. 489

establish itself at the South Orkneys and the South Sandwich
Islands. At South Georgia the British Government authorized the
establishment of only one new company, organized in England.
Many years ago Great Britain took possession, not only of this
island, but also of the South Orkneys, the Sandwich Islands, the
South Shetlands, and all that portion of the Antarctic continent
situated south of America. We believe that the Government of King
George V proposed to continue these annexations in the south polar
regions, for which we may congratulate ourselves. Owing to the
police system and the taxes established by the British Government,
whaling in the Antarctic Seas is regulated to a certain degree, and
the influx of too great a number of whalers is arrested.

In conclusion, we may add that this industry does not require very
large capital. The funds of the large Norwegian companies scarcely
exceed one-and-a-half million francs, and when a rich whaling ground
happens to be found the profits become enormous. In two years a
company with a capital of 910,000 francs installed at South Georgia
twice distributed a dividend of 130 per cent, besides adding a portion
of the profit to various reserve funds and increasing the company’s
resources 60 per cent.
THE MOST ANCIENT SKELETAL REMAINS OF MAN.

By Dr. A. HRprLicKa,

Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum.

[With 41 plates and 12 figures.]
INTRODUCTION.

The early history of the human race, though merged in the dark-
ness of ages, is step by step being traced and reconstructed; and
apparently the time is drawing near when science will be able to
announce, in the main at least, the definite solution of the profound
and involved problem of man’s origin, when, in other words, it will
be in a position to show, however imperfectly, when, where, and
how man ascended from the lower orders.

Actual research into the antiquity of mankind began considerably
less than a century ago, and the more intensive investigations in this
field cover hardly a generation. Such investigations have been
fraught with many difficulties and are growing in complexity. They
demand patient watchfulness, diligent and long-extended explora-
tion, and considerable expense. The most careful attention must in
every case be given to geological and paleontological evidence.
And, after all, the net results of a prolonged quest may be no more
than a few stone chips and implements, or perhaps a tooth, or a few
badly crushed bones, belonging to human antiquity. But, as there
are many hands at work, invaluable materials are accumulating.
Besides this every now and then the search is more richly rewarded,
or some important specimen is discovered accidentally; and every
new, well-authenticated addition to the remains of early man or his
predecessors, more particularly if it is a part of the skeleton, means
a fresh, highly valuable document which throws supplementary light
on the natural history of the human being.

The explorations of recent years have been particularly fruitful.
They were of wide extent geographically and have brought to science
stores of primitive archeological remains, so that whole classes of
ancient industries in stone could be determined; and they resulted
in the recovery of example after example of well-authenticated

491
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ancient skeletal remains representing men coeval with long-extinct
animals, and with them dating far back into the Quaternary or Ice
Epoch.

The aggregate of the precious skeletal material here referred to is
still far from being satisfactory from the standpoint of completeness,
but it is already sufficient to afford solid groundwork for important
scientific deductions as to man’s development; and happily explo-
ration is going on with ever-increasing interest as well as precision.
Hundreds of well-trained students are now watching and searching
for new accessions with which to corroborate previous observations,
to fill in the gaps, and to bring about a fuller understanding of the
physical progress of man in the course of the ages.

Europe, particularly in its more western and southern portions,
has thus far proved the richest in ancient human remains. Africa,
Asia, and those parts of Oceanica which were formerly connected
with the Asiatic continent have as yet been but little explored. The
island of Java, however, which is within the last-named region, has
furnished an intensely interesting specimen bearing on man’s evo-
lution and antiquity. As to America, the researches have thus far
yielded nothing that could possibly be accepted as representing man
of geological antiquity... For the present, therefore, an account of
the very ancient remains of man, with the exception of the Java
specimen, must be limited to early European forms.

Such an account, in condensed form, is here presented. With the
view of preparing this summary the writer, during part of the spring
and summer of 1912 and under the auspices of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, undertook a personal examination of all the more important
skeletal remains relating to early man now preserved in the museums
of Europe. The cultural remains were given only passing attention,
partly on account of their great numbers and partly because they
pertain to a collateral branch of science, prehistoric archeology,
which is rapidly making them known to the world.” The sites of the
more noteworthy discoveries were visited, however, whenever cir-
cumstances permitted.

In this communication there will be described only the v very oldest
of the human skeletal remains so far recovered. Besides these, the
European museums possess numerous human crania and bones be-
longing to more recent time and therefore not of such decided gen-
eral interest as the older forms, and also some whose reported age

2The question of Early Man in North and South America is dealt with in Bulletins 33
and 52 (published respectively in 1907 and 1912) of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
Smithsonian Institution ; these publications also contain the bibliography of the subject,

2See “Recent discoveries bearing on the antiquity of man in Europe,” by G. G. Mac-
Curdy, Smithsonian Report for 1909, Washington, 1910; the Comptes Rendus du Congrés

International d’Anthropologie et d’Archéologie Préhistoriques, especially the sessions at
Monaco and Geneva ; also L’Anthropologie,” ‘‘ Man,” and other anthropological periodicals.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 493

is not generally regarded as well established. These two classes of
specimens can not well be considered in this paper for it would
thereby become unduly extended and possibly also involve contro-
versy.

The questions of the antiquity and origin of man are natural sub-
jects of the greatest interest both to the scientist and to the layman,
for they touch the very foundations of human beliefs, ethics, and
organic progress in the future. Their detailed solution, also, is still
far from us. But it may now be safely postulated that man did not
appear on our planet as an entirely new and distinct being uncon-
nected with the rest of terrestrial organic life; for he is anatomically
as well as physiologically but a highly specialized mammal that still
carries numerous though now more or less useless vestiges or re-
minders of various lower stages through which he passed. Neither is
there any good reason to regard him as the result of some freak of
evolution, for his progress in the organic scale seems thoroughly logi-
eal and, judging from what has been already learned on the subject,
his ascent, though probably not uniformly accelerated, was on the
whole slow. We shall seemingly come nearest the truth if we look
upon him as on the ultimate result of gradual modification in the up-
ward continuity or differentiation of a highly important group of
organic forms. He may be regarded as the topmost and dominating
bough on an ancient mammalian tree whose roots intertwine, some-
where in the earlier Tertiary, with those of other vertebrate forms.
From this tree various branches have doubtless diverged at different
levels and become related species, some of these still persisting, while
others have been long extinct. The stem began, so far as discernible,
with lemurlike forms, from which in the course of time sprang,
though scarcely in the order in which they now appear to us, the
more simple and then the more highly organized primates. Among
the latter then arose, it would appear, slowly or more likely rather
suddenly, one or perhaps several forms characterized by more than
the average physical instability; and the descendants of one or more
of these strains, under the influence, in all probability, of changing
environment, more especially food and climate, with perhaps other
agencies, began more or less gradually to develop reduced teeth,
larger brain, more erect posture, with increased facility of inter-
communication; and this differentiation apparently progressed until
some strain of these changing beings reached that hazy dividing line
below which was still the realm of the apes but above which com-
menced that of the true predecessors of man.

The more immediate human precursors may be conceived of as
forms which showed various individual advances anatomically,
physiologically, and mentally toward man, as well as many morpho-
logical and other reminders of and reversions to the ape; but they
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

were unable to revert wholly to the latter. On the whole, they kept,
probably irregularly, progressing toward man, and when eventually
a part of them varied so far in the direction of the human being
that a complete return even to their own former kind became im-
possible, then, it may be conceived, the earliest representatives of
man were established. These earliest men doubtless from the be-
ginning lacked in uniformity; some strains of them, in all likeli-
hood, lacked also in vitality or in sufficient adaptability to changing
conditions and have disappeared; but others kept on modifying in
the upward direction until in the course of long ages they reached
the various somewhat unequally advanced types of man of the
present day.

The above deductions concerning man’s origin seem to be justified
from the study of the material now at the disposal of the anthropolo-
gist. The whole process of man’s rise, viewed comprehensively,
appears as a most remarkable, multiple, progressive, sustained, pos-
sibly more or less irregular, and not yet finished differentiation, the
exact and enduring causes of which are not well understood. The
various actual species of primates lower than man may in a sense be
viewed as by-products of his own evolution, partly perhaps as his
distant cousins, descendants from some of the old primate stocks,
or as the retarded and aberrant relatives, unable or not called upon
by their environment to keep up with his progress, and slowly modi-
fying more or less sui generis. The old mono- and polygenistic
theories dissolve, of course, equally before these closer assumptions.

The final stages of the progression toward the human form, ac-
cording to such light on the subject as we now have, began toward
the close of the Tertiary period. By the end of the Tertiary it seems
probable that there already existed some of the transitional forms,
the predecessors of the human being, approaching present man in size
of skull and brain, in the character of the teeth, in stature, in the
form of the pelvis, and in other particulars. It is even possible that
before the close of this period man’s precursors began the use of
articulate language, and thus passed the somewhat more definite
functional boundary separating these forerunners from man. But
the bulk of the life history of the human being proper belongs to the
Quaternary period, the period of repeated advances and retrogres-
sions of glacial climate over the North Temperate Zone. The oldest
known human remains have been found in deposits and with the
bones of extinct animals of glacial or interglacial times. As we
go backward into that period we find that the human forms and
in general also the products of human activities become more primi-
tive. On the other hand, after the last glacial recession, some eight
thousand or more years ago, man was already physically much like
he is to-day.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 495

The time that has elapsed since the new anthropoid, or rather
superanthropoid beings progressing toward man developed the phy-
sical characteristics that may be regarded as distinctively human,
and acquired the faculty of speech, can not be computed in years,
but the length of that period must have been many times greater
than the duration of our recent or Holocene epoch, the relatively
brief phase since the recession of the last ice invasion.?

Tue Ovpest WELL-AUTHENTICATED SKELETAL REMAINS or Man Now
EXISTING.

THE ‘ PITHECANTHROPUS.”

(Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois.)

In 1891-92 Dr. E. Dubois, then a surgeon in the Dutch Army,
while engaged in paleontological excavations along the left bank of
the Bengavan River, near Trinil, in the central part of the Island of
Java, discovered several skeletal parts of a primate evidently higher
in scale and nearer to man than any before known.

The remains were thoroughly petrified and comprised, in all, the
. vault of a skull, two molar teeth, and a femur.

The bones were not found simultaneously nor in the same place.
They lay some distances apart, though at the same horizon and em-
bedded in the same stratum of volcanic matrix. This stratum was
rich in fossil remains of various organic forms and, in the locality
where the excavations were carried on, was about 1 meter below the
dry-season water level, or 12 to 15 meters below the plain in which
the river had cut its bed.

In September, 1891, the excavations in the voleanic matrix yielded
unexpectedly, among other fossils, a remarkable tooth, a molar,
which was determined as having belonged to a large unknown pri-
mate. A month later the unique and most interesting skull cap
was discovered, only 1 meter distant from the place where lay the
tooth. It now became certain that traces had come to light of a hith-
erto unknown primate of large size, standing in many respects nearer
to man than any of the actual anthropoid apes. It was seemingly an
intermediate form between the apes and man, and was characterized
by the name of “ pithecanthropus.”

Then came the rainy season and work had to be suspended. Ex-
ploration was recommenced, however, as early as possible in 1892,
and in August of that year the femur was found about 15 meters
(50 feet) from the locality where the other specimens had been em-

1For the duration and subdivision of the Glacial Epoch the following works may be
consulted: T. E. Chamberlin and R. D. Salisbury’s Geology, 1906; Osborn, H. F., The
age of mammals in Europe, Asia, and North America; H. Obermaier, Der Mensch der
Vorzeit, 8°, Berlin, 1912; and R. R. Schmidt, E. Koken and A. Schliz, Die Diluviale Vor-
zeit Deutschlands, 4°, Stuttgart, 1912. These works give further bibliography.
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

bedded. Finally, in October of the same year, the second molar was
secured, at a distance of not more than 3 meters (13 feet) from the
original position of the skull cap, and in the direction of the resting
place of the femur.

The accompanying illustrations (pl.‘ and text fig. 1) show the
locality of the discovery and the approximate positions of the speci-
mens.

Fig. 1.—SECTION OF THE OSSIFEROUS STRATA AT THE LOCALITY WHERE THE
PITHECANTHROPUS BONES WERE DISCOVERED. A, AREA OF GROWING
PLANTS; B, SOFT SANDSTONE; C, LAPILLI STRATUM; D, LEVEL AT WHICH

_ THE SKELETAL REMAINS WERE FOUND; E, CONGLOMERATE; F, ARGILLA~
CEOUS LAYER; G, MARINE BRECCIA; H, WET-SEASON LEVEL OF THE RIVER;
T, DRY-SEASON LEVEL OF THE RIVER. (After Dubois, Smithsonian Report
for 1898.)

All four specimens were considerably mineralized, being of choco-
late-brown color, very heavy, and “harder than marble.” Numer-
ous bones of mammals found in the same bed belonged to species
now extinct or, so far as known, not now living in Java, and showed
fossilization similar to that of the bones of the Pithecanthropus.
The contours of the teeth and the femur were sharp, indicating that

1 After Mme. L. Selenka and M. Blankenhorn: Die Pithecanthropus-Schichten auf Java,
4°, Leipzig, 1911.

2From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, p. 446, article Pithecanthropus erectus, by
Eugéne Dubois (translated from the Anatomischer Anzeiger, vol. 12, pp. 1-22); original
in Trans. Royal Dublin Soc., vol. 6, 1896, pp. 1-18.
“‘paI@AODSTP ALOM (PUTYod e1OUL PUB JYs{1 UO) dvoT[NYs oy} puv (Jol UO) INU; BY} eLET_AA A\OYS Sounds OUI OA OL
‘(NYOHNAYNV1 “AW ONY VYNA13¢ “AW YSLSV) VAVP “TINIUL YVAN ‘YSAIY NVAVONSG 3HL NO ‘GNI4 SNGONHLNVOSHLId 3HL 40 ALIWVOO7 SHI

"| alvid "PHQIIPIH—"EL61 ‘HOday ueluosyziwuS
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN-——HRDLICKA. 497

it has not been washed or rolled about to any great extent; but the
skull cap showed the effects of erosion, probably caused by acidulous
water seeping through the deposits.

All indications and a detailed study of the specimens led Dubois
to the conclusions that: (1) The four skeletal pieces in question were
contemporaneous; (2) they were of the age of the stratum in which
found; (3) they belonged to one skeleton; and (4) they represent a
transitional form of beings between the anthropoid apes and man,
belonging to the direct line in the genealogy of the latter.

‘The first published announcement of the discovery by Dubois ap-
peared in 1894;* to-day the subject possesses already a relatively
large literature of its own.’ A special expedition of two years’ dura-
tion has also since worked on the site of the discovery,* and the
remains are regarded universally as of the greatest scientific value;
but the final word concerning their exact age and true biological
position has not yet been pronounced.

It should be stated at once that there is no room for doubt as to
the place of discovery of the several bones and their geological or
paleontological relations. The several pieces were found in situ,
in the progress of scientific exploration, by a careful and competent
observer. But the precise age of the stratum in which they lay, and
their exact biological position among related forms, are not yet ab-
solutely delimited. While Dubois and other scientific men regard
the Pithecanthropus remains as all belonging to the same skeleton,
as dating chronologically from the latest part of the Tertiary or the
earliest phase of the Quaternary period, and as representing a true
intermediary form between the anthropoid apes and man, others
have expressed doubts as to whether the four bones belong to the

1 Pithecanthropus erectus. Eine menschenibhnliche Uebergangsform aus Java. Von
Eug. Dubois, Militararzt der Niederlandischen Armee. Mitt zwei Tafeln und drei in den
Text gedruckten Figuren., 4°, Batavia, 1894.

2 Few of the more important English contributions to the subject are:

Marsh, O. C. On the Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois, from Java. (Amer. Journ. Sci.,
Feb. 1895.) On the Pithecanthropus erectus, from the Tertiary of Java. ( Ibid., 4th ser.,
vol. 1, 1896, pp. 475-482.)

Turner, William. On M. Dubois’s description of remains recently found in Java, named
by him Pithecanthropus erectus, with remarks on the so-called transitional forms between
Apes and Man. (Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. 29, 1895, pp. 424-445.)

Dubois, E. On Pithecanthropus erectus: a transitional form between man and the
apes. (Journ. Anthrop. Instit. Great Britain and Ireland, Feb. 1896, pp. 240-255; Trans.
Royal Dublin Soc., ser. 2, vol. 6, Dublin, 1898, pp. 1-18; Smithsonian Report for 1898
(Washington, 1899), pp. 445-459.)

Manouvrier, L. On Pithecanthropus erectus. Transl. by G. G. MacCurdy. (Amer,
Journ. Sci., 4th ser., vol. 4, Sept. 1897, pp. 213-234.)

Hepburn, David. The Trinil femur (Pithecanthropus erectus) contrasted with the
femora of various savage and civilized races. (Rep. 66th meeting Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci.,
1897, pp. 926-927.)

For literature in other languages see especially G. Schwalbe, Studien ti. Pithecanthropus
erectus Dubois. (Zeitschr. f. Morphologie und Anthropologie, Bd. 1, Stuttgart, 1899, pp.
1-240, bibliogr. 234-240.)

®* Under Mme. Selenka ; see “‘ Die Pithecanthropus-Schichten auf Java,” by Mme, Lenore
Selenka and M. Blankenhorn, 4°, Leipzig, 1911.

44863 °—sm 19183——32
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

same form; or they consider the age of the remains, though no
doubt early Quaternary, to be less than that estimated by Dubois;
and finally some incline to regard the remains as those of early man
rather than an intermediary being, while still others consider that
they represent merely a superior extinct form of ape.*

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIMENS.

(Plates 2, 3, text fig. 2.)

On account of peculiar circumstances an attempt to describe first
hand the important pieces under consideration meets with serious
difficulties. It would surely seem proper and desirable that speci-
mens of such value to science should be freely accessible to well-
qualified investigators and that accurate casts be made available to
scientific institutions, particularly after 20 years have elapsed since
the discovery of the originals. Regrettably, however, all that has
thus far been furnished to the scientific world is a cast of the skull
cap, the commercial replicas of which yield measurements different
from those reported taken of the original, and several not thoroughly
satisfactory illustrations; no reproductions can be had of the femur
and the teeth, and not only the study but even a view of the origi-
nals, which are still in the care of their discoverer, are denied to sci-
entific men. Under these anomalous conditions it is only possible
to follow Dr. Dubois’s old information.”

The skull cap (pl. 2) measures in greatest length 18.5 (on cast
18.1) cm., in greatest (parietal) breadth 13 (on cast 13.3) cm., and
at the minimum of the frontal constriction 8.7 em.? It is dolicho-
cephalic, its outline as seen from above is oblongly ovoid, narrowing
considerably forward, and it is very low. It presents excessively
prominent though not massive supraorbital arch and a very sloping
front. The frontal bone, in addition, shows externally and along its
middle a well-defined ridge, running from a short distance above the
glabella toward bregma, and a marked low protuberance just forward
of the bregma. The sagittal region is relatively flat and smooth, and
the occiput presents a dull transverse crest, connecting as in apes,
though in much less pronounced manner, with the supramastoid crest
on each side.

1 For numerous of the earlier phases of these controversies see Dubois’s paper in the
Transactions of the Royal Dublin Society; also that in the Smithsonian Report for 1898,
p. 449 et seq.

2 The extended and meritorious work on the skull by Schwalbe (op. cit.) was made on
a cast, which evidertly was in all respects identical with the one in the U. S. National
Museum, but the measurements on which do not exactly agree with those given by Dubois
on the original. These differences, however unfortunate, do not, of course, in any way
detract from the importance of the original.

3For comparison it may be stated that similar measurements on an ordinary white
male American dolichocephalic cranium give approximately 19.1, 14.3, and 10 centimeters ;
on female, 18.3, 13.7, and 9.6 centimeters.
Smithsonian Report, 1913—Hrdlicka. PLATE 2.

Ja. PITHECANTHROPUS ERECTUS, SKULLCAP, FROM LEFT SIDE (ONE-HALF NATURAL SIZE).
2a, ANTHROPOPITHECUS TROGLODYTES, ADULT FEMALE SKULL, FROM LEFT SIDE (TWo-
THIRDS NATURAL SIZE).

(After Dubois, Smithsonian Report for 1898.)
PLATE 3.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka,

(1.) PITHECANTHROPUS ERECTUS, SKULLCAP, FROM ABOVE (ONE-HALF NATURAL SIZE).
(2.) ANTHROPOPITHECUS TROGLODYTES, ADULT FEMALE SKULL, FROM ABOVE (TWO-THIRDS
NATURAL SIZE).

(After Dubois, Smithsonian Report for 1898. )
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN-——HRDLICKA. 499

Without going into a detailed discussion of these characteristics,
it will suffice to say that in most respects the specimen differs more
or less from the ordinary human skull of to-day as well as from those
of early man, so far as known, and approaches correspondingly the
crania of the anthropoid apes.

The temporal ridges, marking on the parieties of the vault the
upper limit of the temporal muscles and fascia, are well defined but
run rather distant (about 4 em. on each side) from the median line,
as in female anthropoids and in man. This suggests that the cranium

Fic. 2.—ATTEMPT AT A RESTORATION OF THE SKULL OF THE PITHECANTHROPUS ERECTUS HALF
THE NATURAL sizE. (After Dubois, Smithsonian Report for 1898.)

may be feminine. The whole remnant, in fact, presents rather sub-
dued forms, such as would more readily be expected in a female
than in a male being at that stage of evolution.

_ The walls of the skull are of only moderate thickness. Its internal
capacity was originally believed by Dubois to have been quite large,
namely about 1,000 c. c., but eventually he reduced this estimate to
900 c. c. or a little over. The capacity of an average cranium of a
white American would amount in the male to about 1,500, in the
female to about 1,350 c. c., while in the largest living anthropoid
apes it only rarely attains or exceeds 600 c. ¢.
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The impression which a comprehensive study of the whole skull
cap carries to the observer is, that it represents a hitherto unknown
primate form, which, whatever it may eventually be identified with
and whether or not man’s direct ancestor, stands morphologically
between man and the known anthropoid apes, fills an important space
in the hitherto existing large void between the two, and constitutes
a precious document for the natural history of man. |

Dubois’s theoretical restoration of the whole cranium of the Pithe-
canthropus, which in all probability comes fairly near to the reality,
is shown in the foregoing illustration (fig. 2).

The two teeth attributed to the Pithecanthropus are the second left
and the third right upper molars. The latter is shown, in reduction,
on plate 4. According to Dubois, they both present the same type,
which, particularly in the development of the cusps, is markedly ape-
like; but Tomes! pronounces them “not exactly like any known
teeth, either human or simian.” Judging from the models of these
teeth which the writer saw at Haarlem, they are decidedly unlike
any human molars, but approach those of the higher anthropoids.
Both have bulky but rather low crowns, and stout, not too long,
strongly diverging roots. In size they exceed considerably the same
teeth in man, as will be seen from the comparisons given herewith;
their relative dimensions (that is, the ratio of breadth to length)
are, however, rather nearer the human form than that in most of
the large apes.

Comparison of the corresponding molars of modern white man and the Pithe-

canthropus.
Second left upper | Third right upper
molar. molar.
Sena | Gri
eng readt Gitatert \iGreuisat
(sagittal| (trans- reates reates
diam- | verse di-| Jensth. | breadth.
eter). | ameter)
7 mm. mm. mm. mm.
Average white man, approximate..........-.....------+--+..-- 9.5 11.0 9.0 10.5

POE RI DETOPU sae ee eae latte = abelian we winels sie cele eso aintajove 12.0 14.0 11.3 15.3

On the whole, it seems evident that the two teeth represent a higher
primate form; in all probability they come from one individual,
and their morphological characteristics are such that they may well
have belonged to the same species or even the same individual as the
before-described skullcap. Their size, as seen from a comparison
with the teeth of larger existing anthropoid apes, is not incompatible
with the size of the skullcap, and that even if the latter belonged
to a female individual.

1Dental anatomy, 8°, London, 1904, p. 560.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLaTe 4.

ASR rms errr e

i
'

PITHECANTHROPUS ERECTUS.

Left femur: 1, from before; 2, from side; 3, from behind; 4, from below; 5, lower end from median
side; 6, right third upper molar, from below; 6a, from behind. (Reduced, after Dubois, from
Smithsonian Report for 1898.)
(uosMRdg soplRyD 1903) y)

‘QaNIVLEO 3Y3M MVP GNV 11N¥S NYWAH
MWSSO4 3H1 ‘MOOHGSG 3H1 NO ONILSSY ‘HOIHM 3O WNLVYLS LSANYVG ZHL WOU ‘NMOGL1d LY 03g 13AVHD SHI

‘G alvid P2IPIH—E 161 Woday ueiuosyyiWig
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 501

The Trinil femur (pl. 4), according to Dubois, Manouvrier, and
others, bears a close resemblance to the human thigh bone, both in
size and shape; nevertheless judging from the illustration it presents
also some important differences. Its length, 45.5 em., equals that of a
human femur from a man 1.70 meters (5 feet, 7 inches) in stature,
and of proportionate strength. Notwithstanding these dimensions,
however, the relatively large inclination of the bone from the vertical
when stood up on its condyles, and the relatively moderate-sized
head and lower articular extremity, suggest that, as was the case
with the skullcap, the bone may proceed from a female.

The femur plainly belonged to a strong being maintaining erect or
near-erect posture and marching mostly or entirely biped, as man.

The principal differences of the bone from a modern human femur
consist in its less-marked antero-posterior curve, in a more evenly
cylindrical shaft, in the more mesial position of the smaller tro-
chanter, in the intertrochanteric line being less raised and hence
more simian in character, and in the popliteal space which, as a rule
concave from side to side in present man, is convex in the Trinil

specimen.
THE “EOANTHROPUS DAWSONI.”

A somewhat problematical as yet but deeply interesting find of
ancient human skeletal remains has recently come to hght in Eng-
land. The specimen representing this discovery is an imperfect
eranium, with a part of the lower jaw and a canine tooth. It is
known as the Sussex or Piltdown skull, or more technically as the
Foanthropus Dawsoni, and its preservation is due to Mr. Charles
Dawson. It is deposited in the British Museum of Natural History
at Kensington and was first reported, with the circumstances of
the find, on December 18, 1912, before the London Geological
Society.?

The history of this specimen, as given by Mr. Dawson, illustrates
the usefulness and need, especially in the Old World, of scientific
supervision of excavations. Mr. Dawson’s statement is as follows:?

Several years ago I was walking along a farm road close to Piltdown Com-
mon, Fletching (Sussex), when I noticed that the road had been mended with
some peculiar brown flints not usual in the district. On inquiry I was aston-
ished to learn that they were dug from a gravel bed on the farm, and shortly

1The circumference of the shaft at middle is 9 em., or one-fifth of the length of the
bone, which proportion is often equaled in present man; the breadth at middle is 2.75 em,
Numerous other measurements of the bone are given in Dubois’s “ Pithecanthropus
erectus,” ete., 4°, Batavia, 1894, p. 21, et seq.

2 Dawson, Charles, A. Smith Woodward, and G. Elliot Smith. On the discovery of a
Palaeolithic skull and mandible in a flint-bearing gravel overlying the Wealden (Hastings
beds) at Piltdown, Fletching (Sussex). (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. for March, 1913, vol.
69, pp. 117-144.) See also Haddon, A. C., Eoanthropus Dawsoni (Science, Jan. 17, 1913,
pp. 91-92) ; and MacCurdy, G. G., Ancestor hunting: The significance of the Piltdown
skull (Amer. Anthropologist, vol. 15, 1913, pp. 248-256).

$1. c., p, 117 et seq.
502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

afterwards I visited the place, where two laborers were at work digging the
gravel for small repairs to the roads. As this excavation was situated about
four miles north of the limit where the occurrence of flints overlying the
Wealden strata is recorded I was much interested and made a close examina-
tion of the bed. I asked the workmen if they had found bones or other fossils
there. As they did not appear to have noticed anything of the sort I urged
them to preserve anything that they might find. Upon one of my subsequent
visits to the pit, one of the men handed to me a small portion of an unusually
thick human parietal bone. I immediately made a search, but could find noth-
ing more nor had the men noticed anything else. The bed is full of tabular
pieces of ironstone closely resembling this piece of skull in color and thickness ;
and, although I made many subsequent searches, I could not hear of any fur-
ther find nor discover anything—in fact, the bed seemed to be quite
unfossiliferous.

It was not until some years later, in the autumn of 1911, on a visit to the
spot, that I picked up, among the rain-washed spoil heaps of the gravel pit,
another and larger piece belonging to the frontal region of the same skull, in-
cluding a portion of the left superciliary ridge * * *.

I took the bones to Dr. A. Smith Woodward at the British Museum (Natural
History) for comparison and determination. He was immediately impressed
with the importance of the discovery, and we decided to employ labor, and to
make a systematic search among the spoil heaps and gravel as soon as the
floods had abated, for the gravel pit is more or less under water during five
or six months of the year. We accordingly gave up as much time as we could
spare since last spring (1912) and completely turned over and sifted what
spoil material remained; we also dug up and sifted such portions of the gravel
as had been left undisturbed by the workmen * * *,

At Piltdown the gravel bed occurs beneath a few inches of the surface soil
and varies in thickness from 3 to 5 feet * * *.

Portions of the bed are rather finely stratified, and the materials are usually
cemented together by iron oxide, so that a pick is often needed to dislodge
portions—more especially at one particular horizon near the base. It is in
this last mentioned stratum that all the fossil bones and teeth discovered in
situ by us have occurred. The stratum is easily distinguished in the appended
photograph (pl. 5) by being of the darkest shade and just above the bedrock.

The gravel is situated on a well-defined plateau of large area * * * and
lies about 80 feet above the level of the main stream of the Ouse.

Since the deposition of the gravel the river has cut through the
plateau, both with its main stream and its principal branch, to this
extent.

Considering the amount of material excavated and sifted by us, the speci-
mens discovered were numerically small and localized.

Apparently the whole or greater portion of the human skull had been shat-
tered by the workmen, who had thrown away the pieces unnoticed. Of these
we recovered from the spoil heaps as many fragments as possible. In a
somewhat deeper depression of the undisturbed gravel I found the right half
of a human mandible. So far as I could judge, guiding myself by the position
of a tree 3 or 4 yards away, the spot was identical with that upon which the
men were at work when the first portion of the cranium was found several
years ago. Dr. Woodward also dug up a small portion of the occipital bone
of the skull from within a yard of the point where the jaw was discovered and
at precisely the same level. The jaw appeared to have been broken at the
symphysis and abraded, perhaps when it lay fixed in the gravel and before
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 503

its complete deposition. The fragments of eranium show little or no sign of
rolling or other abrasion, save an incision at the back of the parietal, probably
eaused by a workman’s pick.

A small fragment of the skull has been weighed and tested by Mr. S. A.
Woodhead, M. Se, F. I. C., public analyst for Hast Sussex and Hove, and
agricultural analyst for East Sussex. He reports that the specific gravity of
the bone (powdered) is 2.115 (water at 5° C. as standard). No gelatine or
organic matter is present. There is a large proportion of phosphates (origi-
nally present in the bone) and a considerable proportion of iron. Silica is
absent.

Besides the human remains, we found two small broken pieces of a molar
tooth of a rather early Pliocene type of elephant, also a much-rolled cusp
of a molar of Mastodon, portions of two teeth of Hippopotamus, and two molar
teeth of a Pleistocene beaver. In the adjacent field to the west, on the surface
close to the hedge dividing it from the gravel bed, we found portions of a red
deer’s antler and the tooth of a Pleistocene horse. These may have been
thrown away by the workmen, or may have been turned up by a plough which
traversed the upper strata of the continuation of this gravel bed. Among
the fragments of bone found in the spoil heaps occurred part of a deer’s meta-
tarsal, split longitudinally. This bone bears upon its surface eertain small cuts
and scratches which appear to have been made by man. All the specimens are
highly mineralized with iron oxide. * * *

Among the flints we found several undoubted flint implements, besides numer-
OUSHHOHENSS eta er

From the above Mr. Dawson believed himself justified in drawing
the following conclusions:

It is clear that this stratified gravel at Piltdown is of Pleistocene age, but
that it contains in its lowest stratum animal remains derived from some de-
stroyed Pliocene deposit probably situated not far away and consisting of
worn and broken fragments. These were mixed with fragments of early
Pleistocene mammalia in a better state of preservation, and both forms were
associated with the human skull and mandible, which show no more wear and
tear than they might have received in situ. Associated with these animal
remains are Eoliths, both in a rolled and an unrolled condition; the former are
doubtless derived from an older drift, and the latter in their present form aré
of the age of the existing deposit. In the same bed, in only a very slightly
higher stratum, occurred a flint implement, the workmanship of which resem-
bles that of implements found at Chelles, and among the spoils heaps were
found others of a similar, though perhaps earlier, stage.

From these facts it appears probable that the skull and mandible can not
safely be described as being of earlier date than the first half of the Pleisto-
cene (or Glacial) epoch. The individual probably lived during a warm cycle
of that age.

The anthropological report on the specimen by Dr. Woodward
brings forth the following main details:

The human remains comprise the greater part of a brain case and one ramus
of the mandible, with lower molars 1 and 2. All the bones are normal, with
no traces of disease, and they have not been distorted during mineralization.

Of the brain case there are four pieces (reconstructed from nine
fragments) sufficiently well preserved to exhibit the shape and nat-
ural relations of a larger part of the vault and to justify the recon-
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

struction of some other features. These bones are particularly note-
worthy for their thickness, which reaches 20 mm. at the internal »
occipital protuberance and 10 mm. along the greater part of the
fractured edges of the frontal and parietals. The average thickness
of modern European skulls, except in the locality of the various
ridges and sutures, varies between 4 and 6 mm.

The greater portion of the brain case may be reconstructed without any
hypothetical restoration, the only serious deficiency being the middle portion
of the frontal region above and including the larger portion of the supraorbital
ridge. Such a reconstruction, with a justifiable amount of modeling, has been
skillfully made by Mr. Frank O. Barlow in the Palaeontological Laboratory of
the British Museum. * * * It is shown in plate 6.

The reconstructed cranium (pl. 6) is evidently that of an adult,
but not old, female. Seen from above, it shows a short ovoid out-
line. It is wide posteriorly, measuring 15.0 cm: across its widest
part, just behind the zygomatic arch, and tapering moderately for-
ward to a slight constriction behind the supraorbital ridge, where
its width (the diameter frontal minimum) is 11.2 em. The total
length from the middle of the supraorbital ridge (glabella) to the
external occipital protuberance (inion) is uncertain, owing to the
hypothetical restoration of the frontals, but it measured probably
not far from 19.0 cm. The cephalic index may have been, therefore.
somewhere about 78 or 79.

In anterior view the relative narrowness of the frontal region is well shown,
and the vault is seen to rise to the vertex at the widest part of the skull. In
side view this upward slope is still better seen, and the steeply curved frontal
contour is especially noteworthy. The external occipital protuberance (inion)
seems to form the hindmost point of the cranium, though the portion of the
occipital immediately above it is in an almost vertical plane.

In back view the contour of the skull is very remarkable. It is relatively low
and wide, and gently arched above, with the sides flattened in their upper half,
and the mastoid region either vertical or slightly inclined inward. * * *

A detailed examination of the several bones of the skull is interesting, as
proving the typically human character of nearly all the features that they
exhibit. The only noteworthy reminiscences of the ape are met with in the
upward extension of the temporal fosse and in the low and broad shape of the
occiptial region. The frontal region, which is complete on the left side and in
its upper middle portions, shows a fairly developed forehead, with well-rounded
frontal eminence. Judging from the remainder of the supraorbital border, it
is clear that there can not have been any prominent or thickened supraorbital
ridge, and in consequence of this the missing parts of the frontal region were
restored on the plan of an ordinary human skull—

which was, perhaps, not fully justifiable.

The temporal crest is sharply developed over the frontal and parietals.

Immediately behind the middle of the coronal suture the parietal region is
distinctly flattened; but as it expands backward, the roof soon rises to a broad
roundel vertex. The parietal eminences are conspicuous. The nearest ap-
(‘pase M poo A pur UuosSMeRG IAITV)

INOSMVG SNGOYHLNVOFR JO SIFIGNVIA] GNV 1T1NXS SHL SO NOILVYOLSSY LSYl4

"9 3ALV1d "EX91|PAH— "E161 ‘Hoday ueiuosyziws
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLIGKA. 505

proach of the upper line of the temporal crest to the sagittal suture is 36 mm.,
a distance frequently equaled in the present man. The parietal suture is com-
pletely obliterated, but the lambdoid is open and parts of it show well-devel-
oped serration. The squamous suture is well arched, as in the typical modern
human skull.

The occipital bone is remarkable both for its relatively great width,
and for the large area and flattenings of its smooth upper portion.
The external occipital protuberance and the muscular ridges are
well marked.

The left temporal bone, which is excellently preserved, is “ typi-
cally human in every detail,” and corresponds closely with the same
bone in a comparatively modern human skull. The mastoid is rather
small.

The capacity of the brain-case can not, of course, be exactly determined ;
but measurements both by millet-seed and by water show that it must have
been at least 1,070 cc., while a consideration of the missing parts suggests that
it may have been a little more. It therefore agrees closely with the capacity
of the brain-case of the Gibraltar skull, as determined by Prof. Keith, and
equals that of some of the lowest skulls of the existing Australians. It is
much below that of the Mousterian skulls from Spy and La Chapelle-aux-Saints.

The intercranial cast shows, according to Elliot Smith, “a con-
siderable resemblance to the well-known palaeolithic brain-casts, and
especially to those obtained from the Gibraltar and La Quina re-
mains, * * * Like these it is relatively long, narrow, and
especially flat; but it is smaller and presents more primitive fea-
tures than any known human brain or cranial cast.” Marked
peculiarities of conformation are shown particularly in the parietal
and temporal region. The length of the left cerebral hemisphere
was only 16.3 cm., due to the thickness of the bones, while the maxi-
mum breadth of the brain (located lower down than usual), was
13.0 cm., the maximum height 10.6 cm.t. The author concludes that
“taking all its features into consideration, we must regard this as
being the most primitive and most simian human brain so far re-
corded; one, moreover, such as might reasonably have been expected
to be associated in one and the same individual with the mandible,
which so definitely indicates the zoological rank of its original
possessor.”

As regards the lower jaw and the teeth it will be best to quote
again from Dr. Woodward. According to this observer: “ While the
skull, indeed, is evidently human, only approaching a lower grade
in certain characters of the brain in the attachment for the neck, the
extent of the temporal muscles and in the probably large size of the

1The brain of a white male from Ireland, whose skull possessed very nearly the same

external measurements (length 19 ecm., breadth 14.9 cm.), gave the writer 17 em. in
length, 13.8 cm. in breadth, and 11.8 em. in height.
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

face, the mandible appears to be almost precisely that of an ape,
with nothing human except the molar teeth * * *.” What there
is of the lower jaw shows the same mineralized condition as the skull,
and the specimen “ corresponds sufficiently well in size to be referred
to the same individual without any hesitation.” It is fairly well
preserved. “It lacks the condyle and a larger part of the symphysis
with most of the dental arch, but retains the first two molars, as well
as the socket for the third. The ascending ramus is relatively broad.
The bone is massive and its outer surface is deeply marked with
irregular hollows for the insertion of a powerful masseter muscle.
The horizontal ramus measures only about 27 mm. in height behind,
but must have been a little higher forward. There is a great width
of the temporal insertion, the mylohyoid groove is situated behind
rather than in line with the dental foramen, and there is a complete
absence of the mylohyoid ridge—all characters of the mandible in
apes, not in man. As the horizontal ramus curves round to the sym-
physis its lower margin exhibits an increasingly wider flattening,
which begins beneath the second molar, slopes upward and out-
ward, and ends in front in the strongly retreating chin. The inner
edge of this flattening is sharply rounded, and at the symphysis
itself the inner face of the jaw is so much depressed in its lower part
that the bone here has the form of a nearly horizontal plate or flange,
closely similar to that found in all the apes. The genio-hyo-glossal
and genio-hyoid muscles, in fact, must have had their origin in a
deep pit, as in the apes; while the digastric can only have been
inserted on the edge of the bony flange instead of extending far over
the lower border asin man. Unfortunately, the absence of the upper
part of the symphysis does not allow of a precise restoration of the
specimen. As, however, the whole of the bone preserved closely
resembles that of a young chimpanzee, it seemed reasonable to restore
the fossil on this model and make the slope of the bony chin inter-
mediate between that of the adult ape and that of Homo heidel-
bergensis (pl. 7). If this restoration proved to be correct then the
alveolar border was so long that it would be necessary to assume the
presence of a relatively large, though probably not very prominent
canine. The two molar teeth are noteworthy for their considerable
length in proportion to their width and in each being provided with
a large fifth cusp. They are, although distinctly human, of the most
primitive type, and must be regarded as reminiscent of the apes in
their narrowness.” * * *

The above were the essentials of the information we possessed
about the Piltdown specimens up to recently. Meanwhile the find
has been discussed at the late meeting (August, 1918) of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, as well as in some pub-
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliéka. PLATE 7.

RESTORATION OF THE PILTDOWN MANDIBLE (B), COMPARED WITH THAT
OF MAN (C) AND YOUNG CHIMPANZEE (A), IN LEFT SIDE VIEW.

(After A. Smith Woodward.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 507

lications, and the latest of these is another important paper by
Messrs. Dawson and Woodward,! in which appear details of con-
siderable additional interest. From this publication we learn that
the researches by the authors in the Piltdown gravel have continued;
and that the whole bed at the locality of the find was found divided
into four well-defined strata. The topmost of these consists of sur-
face soil, with pieces of iron-stained subangular flint derived from
some ancient gravel and similar to the flints beneath. This surface
soil also contains a mixture of pottery and implements of various
ages. Beneath is the second bed of “undisturbed” gravel varying
from a few inches to three feet in thickness. A paleolithic imple-
ment figured in the former paper by the writers has been found in
this layer, which contains rolled and subangular flints similar to
those found above and below. The third stratum, though not always
present, is well marked where it does occur by reasons of its dark
ferruginous appearance, and chiefly consists of pieces of ironstone
and rolled and subangular flints deeply patinated and iron stained.
All the fossil bones, animal and human, with the exception of the
remains of a deer, were discovered in or have been traced to this
third dark bed, which rests unevenly upon a fourth layer, consisting
of very pale yellow, finely divided sand and clay.

The whole of the work was perforce carried on very slowly, and
it was found impossible to employ more than one laborer, “ for the
actual excavation had to be closely watched, and each spadeful care-
fully examined. The gravel was then either washed with a sieve, or
strewn on specially prepared ground for the rain to wash it; after
which the layer thus spread was mapped out in squares, and minutely
examined section by section.”

While the laborer was digging the disturbed gravel within two or
three feet from the spot where the mandible was found, Mr. Dawson
“saw two human nasal bones lying together with the remains of a
turbinated bone beneath them in situ.” In the gravel excavated
within a radius of five yards of the spot where the mandible was
found, Father Teilhard de Chardin, who worked for a few days
with the authors, found on August 30, 19138, a remarkable canine
tooth, which, according to Messrs. Dawson and Woodward, belongs
to the Eoanthropus.

There were also found in the same vicinity two evidently worked
flints with a flint flake; and there were also recovered fragments of
teeth of the stegodon, rhinoceros, and mastodon.

The conclusions of Messrs Dawson and Woodward are that the
third or dark bed is, in the main, composed of Pliocene drift, prob-
ably reconstructed in the Pleistocene epoch.

1 Supplementary Note on the Discovery of a Paleolithic Human Skull and Mandible at
Piltdown (Sussex) ; Quart. Journ. Geological Society, Londoa, April, 1914, pp 81-99.
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

“As regards the human remains discovered, including the canine
tooth, there is nothing in their mode of occurrence to favor the idea
that they may have belonged to different individuals. Putting aside
the human remains and those of the beaver, the remains of the fauna
all point to a characteristic land fauna of Pliocene age; and, though
all are portions of hard teeth, they are rolled and broken. The
human remains, on the other hand, although of much softer material,
are not rolled, and the remains of beaver are in a similar condition.
It would, therefore, seem that the occurrence of these two individuals
belongs to one of the periods of reconstruction of this gravel, though
for other reasons before stated by us, this is not perfectly certain.”

The newly-found nasal bones (pl. 8) are “comparatively stout,
and they are thickened at the upper border, suggesting a massive
and somewhat overhanging browridge. * * * Comparison proves
that these nasal bones resemble those of the Melanesian and African
races, rather than those of the Eurasian type.”

The remarkable new canine tooth (pl. 8) “is certainly that of a
primate mammal, and may therefore be referred without hesitation
to Eoanthropus. As it belongs to the right side of the mandible,
corresponds in size with the jaw already found at the same spot,
and agrees with the molar teeth in having been considerably worn
by mastication, it may almost certainly be regarded as part of the
specimen previously described. The crown of the tooth is conical in
shape, but laterally compressed. * * * The tooth is distinctly
larger than any hitherto found in genus Homo and differs funda-
mentally in having completely interlocked with its opposing tooth,
which worked downward on its inner face as far as the edge of the
gum. Its exact position in the jaw remains uncertain, but its crown
must have risen well above the level of the other teeth, and its state
of wear implies its separation from the anterior premolar by a slight
diastema, as in the apes.” From the various comparisons which the
authors make it appear that “among known Upper Tertiary and
Recent Anthropoids, the permanent lower canine of Eoanthropus
agrees more closely in shape with the milk canine both of man and of
the apes than with the corresponding permanent tooth in either of
these groups. It is also obvious that the resemblance is greater be-
tween Hoanthropus and Homo than between the former and any
known genus of apes. In other words, the permanent tooth of the
extinct Hoanthropus is almost identical in shape with the temporary
milk tooth of the existing Homo. Hence it forms another illustra-
tion of the well-known law in mammalian paleontology, that the
permanent teeth of an ancestral race agree more closely in pattern
with the milk teeth than with the permanent teeth of its modified
descendants.”
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka.

EOANTHROPUS.

The newly found nasal bones and canines (in various aspects and sections) and the
lower jaw. (After Dawson and Woodward, Quart. Jour. Geol. Soe., vol. 70, pl. 15.)
(Yorsuajooyoy doyfy) ‘sS8O1d OILY. B AQ poYxIVUL sf ‘OOBJANS OY} WOLY Joo} GL ‘ALT JL oLOYM oon[d oy L
“GSYUSAOOSIG SVM MV YSNVAW SHL SYSHM ALI1VOO7] SHL

B42 |PIH— E161 ‘HOdeyY UR}UOSYI}LUS

*6 ailvad
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLIOCKA. 509

As to the original restoration of the skull, it appears that the
changes called for by very detailed and many-sided further study,
will be relatively small; and “there are reasons for believing that
the individual was a young adult, and possibly a female, for the fea-
tures that present secondary sexual characters in modern skulls are
quite indefinite in these fragments.”

Notes on an interesting discussion follow the report. There seems
to be still some doubt as to the teeth belonging all to the same skull.
As to the age of the remains, it can not be earlier than Pleistocene;
according to Prof. W. Boyd Dawkins, this was clearly proved by the
presence in the Piltdown deposits “of an antler of red deer (Cervus
elaphus), a species unknown in the Pliocene of Europe and abun-
dant in the Pleistocene and later strata.”

Regrettably, at the time of the writer’s visit in England, in the
spring of 1912, the specimen was not yet available for examination
by outsiders, and so no original opinion can be given concerning its
status. It represents doubtless one of the most interesting finds re-
lating to man’s antiquity, though seemingly the last word has not
yet been said as to its date and especially as to the physical char-
acteristics of the being it stands for.

HOMO HEIDELBERGENSIS.

One of the oldest thoroughly authenticated skeletal relics so far
discovered and attributable to a primitive human being, is the price-
less specimen known as the Mauer jaw. This precious document of
man’s evolution is deposited in the Paleontological Institute of
Heidelberg. For its preservation and thorough description we are
indebted to Dr. Otto Schoetensack,' professor of Anthropology at
Heidelberg University, who for years had been watching the finds in
the sand pits near Mauer which eventually yielded the specimen.
But considerable credit in this connection is due also to Herr Joseph
Rosch, of Mauer, the owner of the sand pits in question, who saved
the specimen from destruction, immediately called Prof. Schoeten-
sack’s attention to its discovery, and eventually donated it unselfishly
to science.

The specimen, the lower jaw of an adult male, was discovered on
the 21st of October, 1907, by two laborers. Both of these were still
employed in the quarry at the time of the writer’s visit, in June 1912,
and they readily related, in company with Mr. Rosch, all the circum-
stances of the find.

The deposits in which the specimen was discovered are located near
the village of Mauer, which lies in the picturesque Elsenz Valley, 6

1 Recently deceased.
510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

miles (10 km.) southeast from Heidelberg. They form the moder-
ately elevated undulating northern boundaries of the shallow valley,
at a distance of about 2 miles from the present bed of the river, and
represent in the main the quaternary accumulations of the stream.
They consist of loess, sand and gravels, with here and there, in the
deeper layers, isolated flat blocks of red sandstone (pl. 9).

The portion of these deposits owned by H. Résch, located about 500
paces north of the Mauer village, have now been worked, in open
manner, for upward of 30 years, in which time great quantities of
building sand have been removed. During this work, particularly
in the lower strata, the workingmen often unearthed fossil shells and
fossil bones of various Quaternary animals. Many of these speci-
mens found their way, mostly as gifts of Herr Résch, to the Heidel-
berg University, and the diggings were repeatedly visited by
scientific men, among whom Prof. Schoetensack. Both the owner
and the workmen were enjoined to watch for better preserved speci-
mens, and particularly for anything relating to the presence of man.

On the date of the find, two of the laborers were working in un-
disturbed material at the base of the exposure, over 80 feet in depth
from the surface, when one of them suddenly brought out on his
shovel part of a massive lower jaw which the implement had struck
and cut in two. As the men knew it was worth while to carefully
preserve all fossils, the specimen was handled with some care. The
missing half was dug out, but the crowns of four of the teeth broken
by the shovel were not recovered. The men were struck at once with
the remarkable resemblance of the bone to a human lower jaw; but
it looked to them too thick and large to be that of man. They called
Herr Rosch and he also was bewildered; but he recognized immedi-
ately that the specimen might be of considerable interest to Prof.
Schoetensack and so he took charge of it. Returning to the village he
telegraphed to the professor, who came the next day, and “once he
got hold of the specimen, he would no more let it out of his posses-
sion.” He took it to Heidelberg, cleaned it, repaired it, and in 1908
published its description in an exemplary way.’ Since then the
valuable specimen has been preserved in the Paleontological Institute
of the Heidelberg University, where, thanks to the liberality of those
in charge, it is available for examination to men of science.?

Shortly following the discovery of the jaw a most careful examina-
tion and study were made of the Mauer deposits. They were found
to range from recent accumulations on the surface to Tertiary de-
posits in the lowest layers. The jaw lay a little less than three feet

1 Shoetensack, Otto. Der Unterkiefer des Homo Heidelbergensis, aus den Sanden von
Mauer bei Heidelberg, 4°, Leipzig, 1908, pp. 1-67, 13 plates.

2 The writer wishes to thank herewith especially Prof, Wilhelm Salomon, chief of the
Institute, for the courtesies extended.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 517

(0.87 meter) above the floor of the excavation and 79 feet (24.1
meters) from the surface.1. The same level, as well as some of the
higher layers, yielded fossil bones of the Hlephas antiquus, Rhi-
noceros etruscus, Felis leo fossilis, and various other extinct species.
The age of the human jaw has been determined by these and subse-
quent explorations to be earlier Quaternary, though there seems to
be some uncertainty as yet as to the exact subdivision of the period
to which it should be attributed.

The original specimen, when seen, impresses one at once and po-
tently as one of the greatest anthropological treasures. It is a huge
lower jaw, which looks simultaneously both human and ape (pl. 10).

It presents no abnormality or any diseased condition that could

have altered it in shape, so that it may well be regarded as a perfect
representative of its type. The bone is dull yellowish-white to red-
dish in color, with numerous small and large blackish spots. The
crowns of the teeth are dirty creamy white, with blackish discolora-
tions on the somewhat worn-off chewing surfaces of the canines and
incisors, and a few similar spots over the molars; while all the parts
of the teeth beneath the enamel are dull red, as if especially colored.
It is much mineralized and feels more like so much limestone than
bone. It weighs nearly 7 ounces (187 grams).
’ The jaw is considerably larger and stouter than any other known
human mandible. Its ascending rami are exceedingly broad. Its
coronoid processes, thin and sharp in modern man, are thick, dull,
broad, and markedly diverging. The chin slopes backward as
in no human being now known or thus far discovered, with the
possible exception of the recently reported Eoanthropus; and there
are other primitive features. The total of the characteristics of the
bone are such that, had the teeth been lost, it would surely have been
regarded as the mandible of some large ape rather than that of any
human being.

The teeth of the Mauer jaw, however, are perfectly preserved,
and though large and provided with great roots and in various other
ways primitive, they are unquestionably human teeth. They force
the conclusion that their possessor, while of heavy, protruding face,
hugh muscles of mastication, wide and thick zygomatic arches, thick
skull, probably heavy brows, and possibly not yet quite erect posture,
had nevertheless already stepped over that line above which the being
could be termed human. His food and probably his mode of life
were related to those of primitive man, and he was already far re-
moved from his primate ancestors with large canines.

The writer will not enter into the anatomical details of the speci-
men, which have been admirably brought out by Prof. Schoetensack.
ER BLISTER! FM AN A ly ROM ee ETI BF eg

+The exact spot has been marked by Prof. Schoetensack with a stone monument bear-
ing the inscription: ‘‘ Fundstelle des menschlichen Unterkiefers, 21 Oktober, 1907.”
512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

The main dimensions of the bone as taken by the writer and con-
trasted with a modern male German jaw of average strength, are as
follows:

Measurements of the Mauer jaw and those of an ordinary lower jaw of a white
man of German descent.

Mauer jaw. German jaw.

Right
side.

Left | Right
side. side.

Left
side.

Horizontal length (from the most forward point of the alveolar border
in the middle, to the middle of the posterior border of the ascending em.
PALS ue em oles wichita one rien vec be apeneccechatvodscasaeea ssc ce on are 12.5 12.1

o
_
iz}
3
2
i]

IBOHIN oie cirieacnsincen nea neces scnicn pn swe(sicae'a'aasy siceetasiagaentonser
Pecnien: ete Same aes nciide atc ahaa Mine neem. a Sait oe ante eee

—
Ne NOS

ile
One coo acon NOOO

OO ES ae Ns ee ae, Soe

Vertical height i in the median line at front (the jaw reposing naturally
Wit ch MOMZOU TAN SUTIACE) = oe cewek cca ccesive sects cnwcvecccoscchen mem
Height at middle of second molar... -............-222-22.--eeeccceeeeee
Thickness (at right angle to the vertical diameter of the horizontal
ramus) at median incisors and midway from above downward ......
JAAS of tera [Sree] EAS he yarns AN dl aie eg eR pee TQ Be

Nom Wl mo 00

or or

Maximum) (at thirdmolars) i. 09.2222. ec eceseene- so skl coe me
Smallest breadth of the ascending ramus...................2---.--2----
PMNEEN OUGDM GAL ATCHS Soba: cc aud cob cps dre eae rcecklads seh bene eee ee
PreatEenGntne Men talaneinc Lee. cebc ns climes co seeee weeccenesobaneeeoe
Length of the three molars, at insertion... ......22 1.2.2.0... eee eee eee . |

2
°
to
oo
N
~

RO. ore

HAR

It is readily seen that the jaw exceeds considerably that of the
modern man in every dimension.

The carefulness of the workingmen in the Mauer sand dais
has been redoubled since the find of the jaw, and the locality has also
been subjected to considerable scientific exploration, but thus far
without further result so far as human remains are concerned. No
signs were discovered which would indicate that the specimen found
in 1907 proceeded from a burial. Evidently it became mingled
accidentally and while still fairly fresh with the ancient alluvium,
wherein by rare good fortune it was perfectly preserved. There can
be but little hope that other parts of the same skull or skeleton will
ever be recovered; but it is not impossible that the large early accu-
mulations of the Elsenz Valley may inclose and some day yield
parts of some equally early individual which will throw further light
on the physical organization of this most interesting ancient repre-
sentative of humanity.

THE SKULL OF GIBRALTAR.

This highly valuable but comparatively little known specimen is
preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, England,
where, thanks to the courtesy of the curator, Prof. Arthur Keith,
the writer was able to examine it and have it photographed.

_The history of the specimen is, regrettably, somewhat defective.
The first mention of it. occurs in Falconer’s Paleontological Memoirs,’

1 Faleoner, Hugh. Paleontological memoirs and notes, 2 vols., 8°, London, 1868; also
Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. 21, 1865, p. 369.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLATE 10.

THE MAvueER LOWER JAW.

(After Schoetensack. About three-fourths natural size.)
(‘[BULSIIO ay} Woas Jaoday uBLUOSYyIWWS 9Y} 10; poyd 04d)
(2) ‘M3IA 3GIS “T1NXS YvVLivudi5 3H).

Sa esteL Val cl BHI|PIH—EL6L wodey ueiuosyyws
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLICKA. 513

in 1868, where, on page 561 of volume 2, speaking of various anthro-
pological and other finds at Gibraltar, the author says:

One of the human skulls yielded by the rocks many years since appears to
us to point to a time of very high antiquity. In fact, it is the most remark-
able and perfect example of its kind now extant. In the absence of a properly
organized museum no record exists of the precise circumstances under which
this interesting relic was found, and that it has been preserved at all may be
considered a happy accident; it has cost us much labor, and with but partial
success, to endeavor to trace its history on the spot where it turned up.

Besides this Falconer remarks in a letter to a relative,' referring
to the skull: “It is a case of a very low type of humanity—very low
and savage, and of extreme antiquity—but still man * * *.

Taking all the available data into consideration,’ it appears that
the skull was discovered, accidentally, as early as 1848, therefore
eight years before the Neanderthal cranium made its appearance in
the “ Forbes Quarry, situated on the north front of the Rock of Gi-
braltar.” According to Keith, it was “quarried out of the terrace
under the north face of the rock,’ a terrace formed of solidified
breccia, consisting of the débris of weathering of the limestone cliff
and fine wind-blown sand. ‘The part of the terrace where the cra-
nium lay was possibly in former times the floor of a cave. Part of a
cave still exists behind the site of the discovery and was explored in
1911 by Duckworth, but without results. It is certain that the skull
showed, and to some extent presents to this day, a hard stony matrix
adhering to its surface and filling its cavities. Broca, to whom we
owe the first descriptive account of the specimen * says that it was
taken out from a “very compact and adherent gangue” out of which
it was disengaged with much difficulty. The photographs published
with Broca’s account show still very noticeable remnants of the stony
matrix (see also pl. 12).

The skull was presented to the Gibraltar Scientific Society by its
that time secretary, Lieut. Flint, but for many years received no sci-
entific attention. In 1862 it came to England, with the collections
from the Gibraltar caves, and was studied to some extent by Busk
and Falconer. The latter, perceiving how much it differed from
recent human skulls, proposed to refer it to a distinct variety of man,
the Homo colpicus, after Calfé, the old name of Gibraltar. In 1868
finally Busk presented the cranium to the Museum of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons of England, where it is still preserved.

The first descriptive account of the specimen ,was published, as
mentioned above, by Broca, but the adhering stony matrix pre-

1 Op. cit., p. 561, footnote.

2Compare Keith, A. The early history of the Gibraltar cranium. (Nature, 1911, pp.
813-814.)

3 Ancient Types of Man, 1911, p. 121.

*Broca, P. Cr&nes et ossements humains des cayernes de Gibraltar. (Bull. Soc.
d’Anthropol. Paris, 2d séries, vol. 4, 1869, p. 154.)

44863°—sM 1913 33

.

514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

vented at that time any attempts at accurate measurements. Subse-
quently it received attention from Huxley, Quatrefages, and Hamy,
and later from Macnamara, Klaatsch, Schwalbe, Sollas, Sera, and
Keith, as well as the writer. It is a very remarkable specimen which,
even though the geological and paleontological evidence relating to
its antiquity is imperfect, does not allow for one moment any doubt
as to its representing an early form of the human being; and its
characteristics are such that it is now universally regarded as a rep-
resentative, possibly a very early one, of the Homo neanderthalensis.

The cranium (pls. 11, 12, 13) is dirty yellowish to whitish in color.
It is considerably mineralized. The stony matrix has been so far re-
moved that all important determinations and measurements which the
defective state of the bone itself permits, can now be made. A for-
tunate circumstance is that the frontal and facial parts are relatively
well preserved; the vault on the other hand is largely defective, but
even here sufficient portions remain to permit of a number of valuable
determinations, and a fairly correct. reconstruction.

The aspect of the face is semihuman, apish. There is a marked
and quite heavy supraorbital arch, notwithstanding the fact that
the skull is probably that of a female. The orbits are very spacious,
especially in height, and the frontal process between, especially at
the level of the superior borders of the orbits, is very stout. The
nasal bridge is low, though not excessively so, and the nasal aperture
is very broad. There are no suborbital (canine) fossee—the surface
of the maxillaries in this region is in fact slightly convex, as in the
apes. The zygomatic arches are deficient and in consequence it is
impossible to say anything definite about their breadth, except that
in all probability this was considerable. The upper alveolar process
is largely absorbed, so that we can not judge of the original prognath-
ism, which however was’ doubtless well marked. The teeth show
unusual strength and especially length, though their crowns are
largely worn off.

The vault, viewed from above, is ovoid in shape and decidedly
low. The forehead is low and sloping. The cranial bones are thick,
exceeding any in this line that can be found in normal modern
European.

The external dimensions of the skull are fairly large, but the brain
was small. The cranial capacity is estimated by Keith as having
been under 1,100 c.c.—that in an adult white woman of the present
time averaging about 1,825 c.c. The palate was large and approached
the horseshoe in shape. The fosse for the articulation of the lower
jaw are rather small and, as in the Krapina skulls to be described
later, they are inclined distally more upward than in man of the
actual time.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliiéka. PWAe toe

THE GIBRALTAR SKULL. FRONT VIEW.

Photographed for the Smithsonian Report from the original.)
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliéka PLATE 13

GIBRALTAR SKULL. TOP VIEW.

Photographed for the Smithsonian Report from the original.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 515

The principal measurements which the writer secured on the
specimen, and which differ shghtly from those previously reported,
especially as to the breadth of the skull, are as follows:

Cm,
HensineMneasxtmirm, 7Celabello-occipital))-— oP eee ee 19.3
SRO Micah ae ATVC ATS Eh 2k ee VTS Se eS eT OM Se 14.8

ORO RATE U1 G0; SS oie ESA RO pe oS Rae ee sae mae iets Aa oe A SR RBE EB 76 to 77

Height between a point corresponding about to the bregma and a point

on) the basilar process just back of the vomer_.—_-_-__ = 2s vo aac 10.8
Premeter frontal minimum __ <2 27-2. __ Baa 1) ef a a Oe 9.9
Wpper alveolar point to nasion, approximately_____-_____ = 7.9
INOSeunelshtaGnrenn) of the: tworsides)) 2-2. Ve oe eee ees 5.8
PES Tee Nl pede nT ed ATU Ty es ee ae PEN bio PAST 4)
Palatevensth (hurer’s method); taboute.2222 2222 ee) es et
IB Rea Gti alo oUt sa ee sei oo eee ss fel alee pats 6,8
: Mm.
Thickness of right parietal, 1 cm. above and along the squamous suture__ 6.9

Right. Left.

Om. Cm.

CO TETY TESS sae en 1 Ep aa ree aa a oe Rs OSs Biase Sm as ne CY 4 3.8

ved: ae AR ai 3 Ty eg ce ea OE LR eR ALL Mee ECE 4 4.0

Maximum length of the brain___-_______ ctl RAE ea REN See UNOS NODES EES Li 16. 4

The majority of these measurements show well the low type of the
skull.

There are numerous other details and dimensions about the speci-
men which are of interest to.the anthropologist, but which can not
well be dealt with in this paper. Tt will suffice to say that both the
visual and the instrumental examination of the specimen lead to the
conclusion that the Gibraltar skull represents a highly valuable re-
mains of an early human being and that its principal characteris-
tics justify the classification of this ancient form with the Homo
neanderthalensis.1

THE NEANDERTHAL SKULL AND BONES.

The most famous of the skeletal remains representing early man
are unquestionably the imperfect but highly characteristic speci-
mens known as the Neanderthal skull and bones. This important
find more than any other has aroused scientific men to intense reali-
zation of the earlier phases of human evolution. The skull and to
some extent also the other parts of the skeleton stand morphologically
far below those of any existing type of man, being correspondingly
nearer to the ancient primates; and their name has been deservedly
taken to designate with the entire early phase of mankind of which
the skeleton is, as now well known, a prototype.

1 ADDITIONAL REFERENCES.

Sera, G. L. Nuove osservazioni ed induzioni sul cranio de Gibraltar. Arch. p.
lAntropol. and Etnol., vol. 39, Firenze, 1910, pp. 1-66, pls. 3-5.

Sottas, W. G. On the cranial and facial features of the Neanderthal race.
(Philosophical Transactions, Roy. Soc: London, 1907, vol. 199B, p. 281-339.)
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The skull, with other parts of the skeleton, were found in August,
1856." They were dug out accidentally by two laborers from a small
rave, located at the entrance of the Neanderthal gorge, in West-
phalia, western Germany. The bones were given but little attention
by the workmen, but fortunately news of the find reached an Elber-
feld physician, Dr. Fublrett, and he was still able to save the skull-
cap, the femora, humeri, ulnz, right radius, portion of the left pelvic
bone, portion of the right scapula, piece of the right clavicle, and
five pieces of ribs (see pls. 14-18).

Soon after their discovery the skeletal remains of the Neanderthal
man received the attention of Prof. D. Schaatfhausen, of Bonn, who
on the 4th of February, 1857, made a preliminary report upon them
at the meeting of the Lower Rhine Medical and Natural History
Society, of Bonn.2 At the general meeting of the Natural History
Society of Prussian Rhineland and Westphalia, at Bonn, on the 2d
of June, 1857, Dr. Fuhlrott himself gave a full account of the
locality of the find and of the circumstances under which the dis-
covery was made.

The principal details of Dr. F whiroet? s* report were as follows:

A small cave or grotto, high enough to admit a man and about 15 feet deep
from the entrance, which is 7 or 8 feet wide, exists in the southern wall of the
gorge of the Neanderthal, as it is termed, at a distance of about 100 feet from
the Diissel* and about 60 feet above the bottom of the valley (fig. 3). In its
earlier and uninjured condition this cavern opened upon a narrow plateau lying
in front of it and from which the rocky wall descended almost perpendicularly
to the river. It could be reached, though with difficulty, from above. The
uneven floor was covered to a thickness of 4 or 5 feet with a deposit of mud,
sparingly intermixed with rounded fragments of chert. In the removing of
this deposit the bones were discovered. The skull was first noticed, placed
nearest to the entrance of the cavern; and further in were the other bones lying
in the same horizontal plane. Of this I was assured in the most positive terms
by two laborers who were employed to clear out the grotto, and who were ques-
tioned by me on the spot. At first no idea was entertained of the bones being
human; and it was not till several weeks after their discovery that they were
recognized as such by me and placed in security. But, as the importance of
the discovery was not at the time perceived, the laborers were very careless in
the collecting and secured chiefly only the larger bones; and to this circum-
stance it may be attributed that fragments merely of the probably perfect
skeleton came into my possession.

Fuhlrott held that the Neanderthal bones might be regarded as
“ fossil,” by which he possibly meant not merely mineralized, but

1In many publications the date is erroneously given as 1857.

2 Verhandl. d. naturhist. Vereins der preuss. Rheinliinde und Westphalens, vol. 14.
Bonn, 1857. Also “Zur Kenntniss der iiltesten Rassenschiidel,”’ Miiller’s Archiy, 1858,
p. 453 et seq.

3Ib. Correspondenzblatt No. 2. The above follows G. Busks’s Translation of Schaaff-
hausen’s ‘‘On the crania of the most ancient races of man,’’ Nat. Hist. Review, April,
1861.

4 Near Hochdal, between Hlberfeld and Diisseldorf.
(]BuTs10 9y} MoOIy yada] UBIUOSTITUI, OY) IOy paydvasoloyq)

“M3IA 3GIS “INNS IHLYSGNVAN 3HL

at pestEVale) “BMII1IPAH—'E16| ‘Hoday uejuosyziws
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLATE 15

THE NEANDERTHAL SKULL. TOP VIEW.

(Photographed for the Smithsonian Report from the original.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLICKA, 517

also belonging to a form of humanity no more existing. A little later
Prof. Schaaffhausen arrived at the following conclusions: !

Virst. The extraordipary form of the skull was due to a natural conforma-
tion, hitherto not known to exist even in the most barbarous races. Second.
These remarkable human remains belonged to a period antecedent to the time
of the Celts and Germans, and were in all probability derived from one of the
wild races of northwestern Europe, spoken of by Latin writers, and which
were encountered as autochthones by the German immigrants. -And third.
It was beyond doubt that these human relics were traceable to a period at
which the latest animals of the Diluvium still existed; though no proof of
this assumption, nor consequently of their so-termed fossil condition, was
afforded by the circumstances under which the bones were discovered.

In 1860 the Neanderthal cave was visited, in company with Dr.
Fuhlrott, by Lyell, who made a sketch of the locality (fig. 3), and

Fig. 3.—SECTION OF THE NEANDERTHAL CAVE, NEAR DiUssELporF. (After Lyell.)

a. Cavern 60 feet above the Diissel, and 100 feet below the surface of the country at c.

b. Loam covering the floor of the cave, near the bottom of which the human skeleton was
found.

b,c. Rent connecting the cave with the upper surface of the country.

d. Superficial sandy loam.

e. Devonian limestone.

jf. Terrace, or ledge of rock.

we are given the following additional information:? Since the dis-
covery of the bones—

the ledge of rock, f, on which the cave opened, and which was originally 20
feet wide, had been almost entirely quarried away, and, at the rate at which
the work of dilapidation was proceeding, its complete destruction seemed near
at hand.

In the limestone are many fissures, one of which, still partially filled with
mud and stones, is represented in the section at @ ¢ as continuous from the
cave to the upper surface of the country. * * #*

There was no crust of stalagmite overlying the mud in which the human
skeleton was found, and no bones of other animals in the mud with the skele-
ton; but just before our visit in 1860 the tusk of a bear had been met with in
some mud in a lateral embranchment of the cave, in a situation precisely simi-

1. ¢.

Lyell, Sir Charles. 'The geological evidences of the antiquity of man, 4th ed., London,
1873, p. 80 et seq.
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

lar to b, figure 8, and on a level corresponding with that of the human skeleton.
This tusk, shown us by the proprietor of the cave, was 23 inches long and
quite perfect; but whether it was referable to a recent or extinct species of
bear, I could not determine.

Following the early notices concerning the Neanderthal cranium,
and before other specimens of similar nature, such as the Spy,
Gibraltar and others became known, an extensive controversy
arose as to the real significance of the find. Virchow,! and after him
others, were at first inclined to look upon the skull as pathological;
to Barnard Davis? its sutures appeared to show premature synosto-
sis; while Blake * and his followers regarded the specimen as prob-
ably proceeding from an idiot. But there were also those, such as
Schaaffhausen, Broca, and others, who from the beginning saw in the
cranium (the other bones received at first but little attention) not
any pathological or accidental monstrosity, but a peculiar, thereto
unknown type of ancient humanity. Then gradually new examples
of this same early type appeared in different parts of Europe, under
circumstances which steadily strengthened the claim of the whole
class to geological antiquity; and when eventually a thorough com-
parative study of the Neanderthal remains was carried out by mod-
ern methods and in view of new knowledge, the cranium and bones
were definitely recognized as representing, in a normal and most char-
acteristic way, a most interesting earlier phase or variety of mankind,
our mid-quarternary predecessor or close relative Homo neander-
thalensis. The credit for deserving work in this field is due especially
to Prof. G. Schwalbe, of Strassburg, whose numerous publications
on the early forms of human remains in Europe are well known to
every anthropologist.‘

Notes on the specimens.—The remains of the Neanderthal skeleton
are preserved in the Provincial Museum at Bonn, where, due to the
courtesy of the director, Prof. Hans Lehner, the writer was enabled
to examine the originals and later have them photographed.

The skull (pls. 14-16) is gray in color, with large mud-brownish
patches on the outside, and whitish gray to whitish brown on the
inside. It is decidedly heavy and mineralized. It is plainly non-
pathological. The sagittal suture has evidently closed earlier than
it ordinarily does in the modern man, but this must have taken place
after the brain ceased to influence the cranial vault, for it resulted
in no deformation. The coronal suture is obliterated up to the

1Virchow, R. Untersuchung des Neanderthal-Schidels. Zeit. f. Ethnol., vol. 4, 1872,
Verhandl. Berl. Ges. f. Anthr., ete., pp. 157-165.

2 Davis, J. Barnard. The Neanderthal skull, etc., London, 1864.

3 Blake, C. Carter. On the alleged peculiar characters and assumed antiquity of the
human cranium from the Neanderthal. (Journ. Anthrop. Soe., London, vol. 2, 1864, pp.
189-157 ; also Mem. Anthrop. Soc., London, vol. 2, 1866, p. 74.)

4Those especially worthy of mention in this connection are: Uber die Schiidelformen
der iiltesten Menschenrassen, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung des Schiidels von Egisheim.
Mitteilungen der philomathischen Gesellschaft in Elsas-Lothringen. 5, Jahrg., voi. 3, 1897.
Derselbe : Der Neandertalschidel. Bonner Jahrbiicher, Heft 106; 72 Stn. 1 Tafel, 1901.

([BULSIIO 9) Woy JIOday URIUOSY TUS OY JOJ poydvasojoyd)

“MAIA MOVG “TINS IVHLYSGNVAN SHL

9) S1LV1d “PYQI|PIH—"ELEL ‘Hodey urjuosyptus
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——-HRDLIGKA. 519

temporal ridges, while the lambdoid is still patent. Similar condi-
tions to these are not seldom met with in the skulls of persons beyond
the fiftieth year of life, and if not attended by scaphocephaly or
other consequent deformation, can not be regarded as abnormal. The
serration of the lambdoid suture is decidedly simpler than in the
modern human skull.

The facial and basal parts are lacking. The vault shows very good
dimensions in length and breadth, but is strikingly low, and the
bones are considerably thicker than in the white man of to-day, so
that the brain cavity was only moderate.

Besides its lowness the vault is characterized by a very decided
protrusion of the whole supra-orbital region. The supra-orbital fore-
structure or arch formed through this protrusion is heavier than in
any other known example of the Homo neanderthalensis. The line
from glabella to the naso-frontal articulation is relatively extensive
and passes considerably backward besides downward, indicating
a very marked depression at the root of the nose, not unlike that
which is present in the adult gorilla. Due also to the forward ex-
tension of the supra-orbital arch, the upper parts of the planes of
the orbits face very perceptibly downward, while in present man
they face somewhat upward or approach the vertical. The remark-
able extent of the protrusion of the supra-orbital region may be
judged by the fact that the horizontal distance from the most promi-
nent point of the glabella to the nearest point on the ventral surface
of the lower frontal region measures 3 cm. ‘The frontal process
descends deep between the orbits and is exceedingly stout.

The forehead is very low and also slopes markedly backward,
nevertheless it presents a moderately well-defined convexity. The
sagittal region is oval from side to side, much like that in man of
to-day; the occiput, however, is marked by a relatively high situa-
tion of the crest and other peculiarities. The outline of the vault,
as looked at from above, is a long ovoid. The thickness of the
frontal bone at the eminences is 8.5 mm.; of the left parietal, along
and 1 em. above the squamous suture, 6 to 8 mm.; these measurements
are about one-third greater than those of the skull of an average
modern European.

The principal external dimensions of the cranium, taken carefully
with two separate instruments, were found to differ slightly from
some of those recorded, but agree closely with those of Schwalbe.
They are:

Cr.
ah ewereakesth length seme EO
ALEVE. eA SAU REST OU ELEN Fl eee 2 err 14.7
Cephalienndexces se hs aie we ecnl
Dinmetereironpalocminimapmameie: a A ys es OT
Diametererrontal maximise elt! 2 Ai doe PAS:
INT SIOn-DECE Mia aime ter see ee ke 2 PE A Oe ra sey

iBregma-lambdar diameter seme ae ea 10.3
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The internal capacity of the skull has been estimated by Schaaff-
hausen at 1,033 c.c., by Huxley at 1,230 cc, and by Schwalbe at
1,234 c. ¢.

The brain which filled the skull was lower and narrower and
slightly more pointed than the human brain of to-day, approaching
in these features more the anthropoid form. The right frontal
lobe was slightly larger and longer than the left, and the whole right
hemisphere was slightly longer than that of the opposite side. In
the present man it is generally the left hemisphere which is the
longer, but this exception in the Neanderthal man is not necessarily
of any special significance.

The long and other bones of the skeleton (pls. 17-18), so far as pre-
served, show many features of anthropological inferiority, demon-
strating plainly that not merely the skull, but the whole body of
the Neanderthal man occupied a lower evolutionary stage than that
of any normal human being of the historic times. However, many
of the details on these points are technical and must be reserved for
another publication. The bones in general indicate a powerful
musculature. They belong doubtless to a male individual. The
stature of the man was about like the average of the present man
in central Europe, or but slightly lower (the femora indicate, accord-
ing to Manouvrier’s scale, approximately 165 cm.)* The thigh bones,
besides presenting a powerful neck with a relatively large head, show
also a very mesially located minor condyle, certain peculiarities of
the shaft, a small but distinct suprapatellar fossa which does not
exist any more in man of this day, and a slight convexity, espe-
cially on the right, of the popliteal surface, a region which in the
present man is as a rule more or less concave. The left humerus
shows signs of an injury in consequence of which it doubtless re-
mained much weaker than the right bone. The proximal end of the
left ulna has also been damaged in life. The radius presents a
marked functional (nonpathological) curvature.

A careful examination and comparison of the Neanderthal skull
and bones can leave only one impression on the anatomist or anthro-
pologist of to-day, which is that while individually and jointly the
various parts represent a human being already far advanced above
any anthropoid, they are still in many respects decidedly more
primitive in form—that is, on a lower scale of evolution—than the
skull and bones of any man of to-day.

The remains are unquestionably the most precious representatives
of the important phase of early humanity which we now include
under the name of Homo neanderthalensis.

1Taking all the long bones of the skeleton, so far as preserved, into consideration, the
calculated stature is 163.2 em. See Boule, M., Annales de Paléontologie, vol. 7, No. 2,
1912, p. 117; also Rahon, Thése, Paris, 1892; and Mem. Soc. d’Anthropol, Paris, vol. 4,
1898, p. 403.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka.

THE NEAN

PLATE 17.

THE NEANDERTHAL FEMORA, WITH PORTION OF A PULA AND PELVIC BONE

graphed for the Smithsonian Report f the originals

(S[BUISII0 94} Woy Jsoday URrUOSYyIUIS 94} OJ poydersc oud)

*“NOLSTSNS IWHILYSONVSN SHL SO XVYHOH] GNV SAWI7 Yaddf] 3HL WOYS SANOG

‘SL aLwid

“PAQNPIH—"E 161 ‘Hoda {}!1WS

ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLICKA. 521

THE SPY SKELETONS.

In June of 1886 Messrs. Marcel de Puydt, member of the Archeo-
logical Institute of Liege, and Maximin Lohest, at that time assistant
of geology of the University of Liege, discovered in the terrace front-
ing a certain cave at Spy, in the Province of Namur, Belgium, the
remains of two human skeletons associated with the débris of extinct
Quaternary animals. The discovery was immediately brought to
the attention of Prof. J. Fraipont, of the Liege University, and on
the 16th of August, 1886, he announced the important find to the
Congrés archéologique of Namur. A little later in the same year
Messrs. Fraipont and Lohest published an account of the discovery,
with a description of the human remains, in the Bulletins of the
Royal Academy of Belgium.!

According to the last-mentioned account there existed in the
eighties in the community of Spy, above the stream Orneau and in

R, Orneauw

Fig. 4.—THE Spy CAVE AND TERRACE. (After Fraipont and Lohest.)
X = position of the skeletal remains of the Spy man.

the side of a wooded mountain, a cave, in which de Puydt and Lohest
conducted archeological explorations since August, 1885 (fig. 4). A
large terrace situated in front of the cave had not been methodically
examined until 1886, and it was during excavations in this terrace
that the two investigators encountered, in June of 1886, the human
remains known since as the Spy skeletons.

The human bones lay in the lowest parts of the deposits, one 6.
the other 8 meters in front of the entrance to the cave. They repre-
sented two individuals. One of these lay on its side, the hand touch;
ing the lower jaw; in the case of the other the original position could
not be determined.

The terrace containing the Spy skeletons was situated 14.5 meters
(47.5 feet) above the shallow bed of the stream running at the foot
of the mountain, and the bones lay at the depth of 13 feet from

1 Fraipont, J., and M. Lohest. Ia race humaine de Neanderthal ou de Canstadt en
Belgique. Bulletins de l’Académie Royale de Belgique, 8d series, vol. 12, 1886, pp.
741-7H.
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the surface. The accumulations which formed the terrace included
calcareous débris, various archeological traces of man’s presence, and
numereous remains of fossil animals. They could be separated into
several strata, none of which showed any perceptible disturbance.

The layer in which the human skeletons were inclosed yielded also
bones of the following fossil Quaternary mammals:

Rhinoceros tichorhinus (abundant).
Equus caballus (very abundant).
Cervus elaphus (rare).

Cervus tarandus (very rare).

Bos primigenius (fairly abundant).
Elephas primigenius (common).
Ursus speleus (rare).

Meles Taxus (rare).

Hyena spelea (abundant).

This layer further contained a sliver of an animal bone which
showed a crude adaptation for use, and worked stones of inferior
workmanship, referable to the Mousterian period. The layer imme-
diately above, undoubtedly of lesser age, gave besides the bones of
similar fossil animals also those of a few living species, several thou-
sands worked fiints, some of which still of the Mousterian type,
many worked bones including arrow points, and also fragments of
pottery. :

Considering the animal and archeological remains associated with
the human skeletons, together with the absence of disturbance in the
superimposed more recent layers, Lohest believed himself justified to
refer the Spy remains to the Mousterian period; and the deductions
of Fraipont, based on the study of the skeletal remains themselves,
were that they belonged to the Neanderthal man. Since then the Spy
remains have received careful consideration by every student of early
man and the above classification was found to need no radical
revision.

What remains of the Spy skeletons is preserved + in the collections
of the University of Liege, where, thanks to the courtesies of Messrs.
M. Lohest, Charles Fraipont and J. Sérvais, the writer was enabled
to examine the originals.

The skeletons are currently known as No. 1 and No. 2.. The remains
of No. 1 comprise the vault of the skull; two portions of the upper
jaw, with five molars and four other teeth; a nearly complete lower
jaw, with all (16) teeth; the left clavicle; the right humerus, which
has lost its upper epiphysis, and the shaft of the left humerus; the
left radius, without lower epiphysis; the heads of the two ulne; a
nearly complete right femur; the complete left tibia; and the right
os calcis. The parts that have been identified as belonging to the
second subject are the vault of the skull, two portions of the upper

1 Was, up to the invasion in 1914.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka.

a

PLATE 19.

SIDE VIEW.

No. 1.

OKULL

SPY

mit

After Fraipe
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 523

maxilla with teeth, two fragments of the lower jaw with teeth, some
loose teeth belonging to the lower jaw, fragments of the scapule and
left clavicle, imperfect humeri, the shaft of the right radius, portions
of the ulne, the left femur without its lower extremity, the left os
calcis, and the left astragalus. The separation as here given needs,
however, a careful revision. Besides the above, there are a number of
vertebre and small bones of hands and feet about which it is im-
possible to say to which skeleton they belong.

All the skeletal pieces show an advanced state of mineralization.
In color they range from brownish to dark grayish, skull No. 1 repre-
senting the former and No. 2 the latter shading; the teeth, however,
are quite white, with yellowish roots, much as in crania from rela-
tively modern burials.

The bones of skeleton No. 1 are in general weaker than those of
No. 2, but whether this is due to sexual difference of the two indi-
viduals, or is merely accidental, is difficult to determine. No. 2
was of a decidedly powerful musculature. The stature of the Spy
man, so far as it can be determined from these remaining bones, was
slightly less than that of the Neanderthal man and somewhat below
the medium of white man of central Europe of the present day.

The bones of the vault in the two skulls are thicker than in the
average man of the present day, though slightly less so than in the.
Neanderthal cranium. The sutures in both are patent with the ex-
ception of the coronal in No. 1, which shows commencement of oblit-
eration; their serration is very simple.

The two skulls are plainly normal specimens, free from disease or
deformation, and belonged to adults, approaching in No. 1 middle
age, while No. 2 was younger. Somatologically they are remarkable
for their important resemblances as well as differences. They belong
to one type, but represent individual variations of this type that
stand far apart.

No. 1 (pls. 19-20) is almost a replica of the Neanderthal cranium.
There is a similarly prominent, though not quite as heavy, supra-
orbital arch; the forehead is even a trace lower and a trace more
sloping than in the Neanderthal skull, and the general shape of the
vault is much the same. The vault is also very low, but the sagittal
region shows a slightly more perceptible elevation than that in the
Neanderthal specimen (fig. 5).

Skull No. 2 on the other hand, while possessing similar prominent
supra-orbital arch as No. 1, has a considerably higher and more con-
vex forehead, the whole vault is higher as well as more spacious,
and the form approaches in many respects that in modern man
(pl. 21). The brain cavity in No. 1 is anteriorly low and relatively
narrower, as well as somewhat more pointed, than in recent human
crania; in No. 2 these features are also more like those in the present
man.
*Z ON Adg ‘TON Adg ‘leq popuveaN ——
(‘qsoqo'y pue yuodivig Joy) ‘aasodWiuaans ‘VINVUO Adg GNVY IVHIUAGNVAN AHL JO SaTMOUg—'? ‘diy

pe a eR a See ee ee ee
- - a

oD
a
ep)
rm
b =
a4
=
Ho
-
=)
qo
mm
sa
69)
a
=
Zz
—
e
vA
©
op
kei
‘ml
=
—
ei
a
wm
‘=.
amy
©
Ay
ea}
a
~]
<
=)
A
ed
<a

(‘ysoyoT puv quodrerg rqyy)
"L (ON 11NXS Adg JO MAIA AQIS

06 Sivid PHQIIPIH—'E 161 ‘HOdey UeiUosYpIWUS
(-qseyoT pure yuodtery Io}yV)
‘SON TING Adg JO MAA 3AIS

"BYQI|PAH— ELE ‘HOdey uRjuosy}iWS

"1g alvid
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 525

On the whole it may be said that No. 2, while in some respects still
very primitive, represents morphologically a decided step from the
Neanderthaloid to the present-day type of the human cranium.

Fic. 6.—SUPERPOSITION OF NORMA VERTICALIS OF THE SPY No. 1 AND No. 2, AND THE NEANDERTHAL
CRANIA.

———— Neanderthal. __.............. Spy No. 1. Spy No. 2.

The lower jaw of No. 1 (pls. 19, 22), while yet of a primitive form,
possesses nevertheless already a trace of the chin prominence, and in
size and anatomical characteristics is closer to the present-day form

526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

than any of the other known lower jaws dating from the Mousterian
period; and the same is true of the teeth which, though considerably
worn, were evidently much like human teeth of to-day.

The outline of the two skulls when viewed from above is a long
ovoid in No. 1, a shorter ovoid in No. 2 (fig. 6). The principal di-
mensions of the two specimens as secured by the writer are as
follows:

No. 1. No. 2.

Cm, Cm.
Length, maximum, from clabellaz <=. 2 re ee eee 2057 20.02)
Length fromsophryons 202 2 hiss ws See Ae ee 2) 18.8 18.6
ESO CLG TY 1a DU a sa Ee NY ee 14.7 15.4
Cephalic index 2 ews a 2 OA a ee ee er ep tt
Diameter atrontal smi in wee eS ee ge eee ae LORS ee SD
Nasion bregma didmetert 22 cu oes We Ee cae ee Re mere 10.6 (7?)
Diameter presmia=v alma Cay ee a Es ee ee ee ine See fl SS LOSS

Mm Mm
Thickness of the left parietal along and 1 cm. above the squa-

TT OUS EST GUase Re 2 ee ee 6to8 5to8

Thicknessiofihe trontaliat the eminenees:— 252 = sh eee ) 8

Cm Cm
Heiht Of ower Jaw ac -SyMpRISIS eee ee ee SOO ae
Thickness at symphisis (excluding genial tubercle)____________ GL 3 ares =e ee
THICKNESS Hace SC COME e110 Vet ee See feed A.
Maximum thickness (opposite third molar) —___----__--________ ile ti AG

A careful consideration of the evidence presented by the two
crania leads the writer to a slightly modified conclusion from the one
generally accepted. The specimens are justly classified with the
Homo neanderthalensis; but the characteristics of the lower jaw, the
rising sagittal region in No. 1, and the whole shape of No. 2, barring
the supraorbital arch, indicate a morphological advancement in the
direction of the present type of man such as is not met with in other
examples of Homo neanderthalensis. The crania, and particularly
No. 2, may be justly regarded, it seems, as approaching transitional
forms from the more typical older Neanderthal type toward that
which we now know from the Aurignacean and perhaps lower Solu-
trean epochs, such as the Homo aurignacensis and the man of
Piedmost.

Remarks on other skeletal parts from the Spy terrace will be
limited to those of skeleton No. 2, the parts representing skeleton
No. 1 being fewer in number and for the most part very defective.
The bones of No. 2 are massive and show many primitive features, in
which they approach closely to the skeleton from the Neanderthal
cave. The femur is equally characterized by very stout neck and
large head, the popliteal space is still slightly convex from side to

1 Approximately. 2 Fragment.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliéka. PLATE 22,

THE LOWER JAW OF Spy SKULL No. 1.
(After Fraipont and Lohest.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 527

side. There is no isolated suprapatellar fossa as in the Neanderthal
femur, but the ordinary lower suprapatellar depression is very pro-
nounced. The curvatures of the femur, the characteristics of its
condyles, and the marked backward inclination of the internal
condyle of the tibia, differ all more or less from similar features in
modern man and indicate habits of posture that have since been
abandoned. The right femur (left broken) measures in bicondylar
length 42.4 cm., In maximum length, 42.6; while the relatively short
left tibia measures, less the spine, 33.3 cm. These dimensions cor-
respond according to Manouvrier’s tables to the stature of 161.1 cm.
for the femur and 157 cm. for the tibia, or about 159 cm. (a litle
over 5 feet 3 inches) for the two bones together. The right femur
of the Neanderthal skeleton, measured in the same manner, gave the
writer 43.7, the left 43.9 cm., which shows that the Spy man was in all
probability somewhat shorter. Prof. Boule, in his Annales de Pale-
ontologie, (vol. 7, 1912, p. 117), estimates the stature of the Spy
man as identical (or 1 millimeter higher) with that of the Neander-
thal man, but this is evidently based on erroneous data concerning
the length of the bones. However, even the most precise estimates
in this line can only be gross though useful approximations, for we
know but little of the length of the trunk in these skeletons, and the
posture of the body in the early representatives of humanity was
probably less erect than it is in man to-day.

The remaining bones of the Spy skeletons show various anatomical
peculiarities and secondary primitive features, but these call for a
technical description and comparisons. A rather unexpected condi-
tion, found since in other skeletons of Homo neanderthalensis, is the —
relative shortness of the forearms, as well as the legs. The radius
shows a marked nonpathological curvature; and there are a number
cf interesting characteristics on the astragalus, which has recently
been studied with much detail by the son of Julien Fraipont.t

The region that has given us the Spy skeletons has yielded no addi-
tional remains of similar nature, but the terrain can scarcely be re-
garded as exhausted by exploration.

1 The following works may be consulted in this connection:

Julien Fraipont et M. Lohest, Recherches sur les ossements humains découverts dans
les dépoéts quaternaires d'une grotte 4 Spy et détermination de leur Age géologique.
Archives de biologie, tome 6, Gand. 1887; Fraipont, J.—Le tibia dans la race de
Neanderthal. Revue d’anthropologie, Paris, 3d series, vol. 3, 1888, p. 145 et seq.
Klaatsch, H.—Erg. d. Anat. u. Entwickelungsgesch, Bd. 9, 1899—Derselbe, Die wichtigsten
Variationen am Skelett der freien unteren Extremitiit des Menschen und ihre Bedeutung
fiir das Abstammungsproblem. ibid., Bd. 10, 1900; Fraipont, Charles—L’astragale de
’'Homme Moustérien de Spy; ses affinités. Bulletin de la Société d’Anthropologie de
Bruxelles, vol. 31, 1912, pp. 1-30, 3 pls.; do.—Sur l’Importance des caractéres de
Vastragale chez Homme fossile, Thése, Univers. de Liége, 8°, Bruxelles, 19138, pp.
1-66, 6 pls.
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

THE DILUVIAL MAN OF KRAPINA.

One of the most important finds relating to the Homo neandertha-
lensis is unquestionably that of the Krapina cave, in northern Croa-
tia. It comprises a whole series of human bones of well-determined
age, and the remains were not recovered accidentally or by ignorant
laborers, but through prolonged, painstaking exploration. The bones
themselves are for the most part fragmentary, which is much to be
regretted, but they represent numerous individuals, and they show
on one hand such similarities and on the other such variation of

Fig 7.—A SCHEMATIC VIEW, IN TRANSVERSE SECTION, OF THE KRAPINA HOLLOW. (After Gorjanovié
Kramberger.)

M.S. = Mediterranean sandstone: I, the lower deposits, mostly pebbles (a) and
aluvium (b), with fireplaces (x) and some large pieces of sandstone (y); II, the
upper strata, composed of disintegrated rock and (c!, cz) cultural remains.

structure, that they are of the greatest value to the student of ancient
humanity.

The Krapina cave or more properly rock shelter, is an ancient, not
very deep hollow, worn out in sandstone rock by the small stream
Krapinica, and subsequently filled with water-worn stones and al-
luvia brought in during overflows of the stream, together with detri-
tus resulting from the decomposing rock (fig. 7). Since the forma-
tion of the hollow, the Krapinica has cut its channel so that it now
(‘raS10q uIRIy-ptAouBlroy Jay y )

“MAlIA ACIS «'D,, TINNS VNidveyY

”

160) 4-LV el "BYQIPAH— E16] ‘odey ueluosyyiWwic
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLATE 24

KRAPINA SKULL *'C.”? FRONT VIEW.

(After Gorjanoyvi¢é-Kramberger. )
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 529

flows 82 feet (25 meters) below the cave. Before and while the
shelter was being filled up it was utilized by the early man of the
region, at first but occasionally, later for some time perhaps con-
tinuously, and the accumulations in the cave were augmented by the
remains of fireplaces, by refuse including many primitive stone im-
plements and rejects as well as animal bones, and also by numerous
human bones in more or less fragmentary condition.

The locality became known in 1895, after two Croatian teachers
discovered in the superficial deposits of the cave some teeth of rhi-
noceros and fragments of other fossil bones. These finds were
brought to the attention of some of the scientific men at Zagreb
(Agram), but no thorough examination of the site was undertaken
until 1899. In that year the place was visited by Dr. K. Gorjanovic-
Kramberger, professor of geology and paleontology in the Univer-
sity of Zagreb and the director of the geological division of the
Narodni Muze] of Zagreb, Croatia; and on excavation it was soon
found that the Krapina hollow was in all probability one of the
stations of early man and as such deserved a thorough exploration.
Such exploration was begun without delay and was carried on, with
some interruptions, until 1905, when the contents of the shelter
became exhausted.

The careful explorations just referred to yielded quantities of
precious paleontological and paleoanthropological material, which
now fill several cases of the National Croatian Museum; and much
of this material has since been thoroughly described by Prof. Gor-
janovi¢-Kramberger and reported in numerous publications.?

The collections consist of several thousands of various fossil animal
bones, mostly fragmentary, but some well preserved; of hundreds
of stone flakes the rejects of stone manufacture, and of stone imple-
ments; and of parts ef human bones proceeding from at least 14
skeletons.

The animal bones represent either totally extinct forms or spe-
cies now extinct in Croatia. The most common are those of RAinoc-
eros Merckti, Ursus spelaeus, and Bos primigenius. By these re-
mains the age of the deposits has been determined as earlier Diluvial
(i. e. enterglacial) , corresponding in all probability to the latter part
of the Mousterian culture epoch in western Europe. The stone im-
plements belong to the Mousterian and earlier types.

Due to the courtesy of Prof. Gorjanovi¢é-Kramberger and Dr. F.
Sulje, of the Geological Division at the Narodni Muzej in Zagreb,
the writer was privileged, in June, 1912, to examine the Krapina
originals. This was not done with any need or hope of adding any-

1 Particularly in the large monograph, by K. Gorjanovic- FT auie ae, “Der Diluviale

Mensch von Krapina in Kroatien,” 4°, Wiesbaden, 1906, pp. 1-277, 52 figs., 14 pls. This
memoir includes all literature on the subject up to 1906.

44863°—smM 1913

530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

thing to Prof. Gorjanovié-Kramberger’s thorough description of the
specimens, but rather because the view and handling of the original
objects in a case of this importance is a rare treat which helps to fix
in the mind, more than any description could, their extraordinary
characteristics.

The human bones are, for the most part, in fragments. Notwith-
standing their defective condition, however, the collection impresses
the student most forcibly by its scientific importance. As in the case
of the Mauer jaw and a number of other specimens derived from
early man in Europe, the material bears the unmistakable stamp
of genuineness and preciousness to anthropology, impressions which
are wanting in the case of so many of the finds that are merely urged
as ancient.

The bones represent, as already mentioned, the remains of at least
14 individuals of both sexes, ranging from childhood to ripe adult
age. The fragmentation of the skulls (pls. 23-25) lower jaws and
some of the long bones is excessive, and of such a nature as to sug-
gest that it was caused otherwise than by accidental breaking or
crushing. A number of the fragments show also the effects of burn-
ing, and one specimen, a portion of the supraorbital part of a frontal,
presents some cuts. These different conditions, together with the
absence of many parts of the skulls and bones, with total lack of
association of the fragments and the commingling of the human with
the animal bones, led Gorjanovié-Kramberger to the opinion that the
remains represent the leavings of occasional cannibalistic feasts and
are not burials.

The Krapina bones are whitish, yellowish, or ight brownish in
color. They are not of great weight, but a chemical examination has
shown that they are much altered in constitution, particularly in the
fluorine-phosphates proportions. They may be roughly divided
into the parts representing the vault of the skull; the jaws and the
teeth; and other bones of the skeleton than the cranium.

The long and other bones of the skeleton, relatively less interesting
than the skulls and jaws, show the Krapina man to have been, as
compared with central European white man of to-day, of moderate
stature, and outside of the powerful jaws, of strong though not ex-
cessive muscular development. Some individuals were very percep-
tibly weaker than others. As to form, particularly in the upper ex-
tremities, the bones in general are perceptibly more modern in type
than those of the Neanderthal or Spy man, nevertheless they present,
as well shown by Prof. Gorjanovi¢-Kramberger, numerous and im-
portant primitive features.

The fragments of the skulls show that the bones of the vault were
considerably thicker than they are in the white man of to-day. The
crania were of good size externally, but the brain cavities were prob-
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka PLATE 25.

PHOTOGRAPH OF THE REMAINS OF KRAPINA SKULL ‘‘C,” FROM ABOVE.

(After Gorjanoyi¢-Kramberger. )
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLATE 26.

b

a. KRAPINA LOWER JAW “H.” 6. KRAPINA LOWER JAW “I.

(After Gorjanovié-Kramberger.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. _ 531

ably below the present average. The vault of the skull was of good
length and at the same time fairly broad, so that the cephalic index,

b, OUTLINE OF KRAPINA SKULL ‘‘ C’’ (RECONSTRUCTED) AS SEEN

(After Gorjanoyié-Kramberger.)

FROM ABOVE.

Fig. 8.—a, OUTLINE OP KRAPINA SKULL ‘‘ D’’? (RECONSTRUCTED) AS SEEN FROM ABOVE.

at least in some of the individuals, was more elevated than usual in
the crania of early man (fig. 8). They were also characterized, as the
532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Neanderthal and other crania of the man from the Mousterian epoch,
by lowness of the vault, and in every instance among the adults by a
pronounced, complete supraorbital are. The last-named feature,
though less marked, is plainly distinguishable even in the children.
Its invariable presence is a definite proof of the fact, not quite well
established before, that this arc was up to a certain phase of the
Quaternary period a regular characteristic of the early man of a
large part of Europe.

A number of interesting features are presented by the fragments
of the temporals. The mastoids are less developed than in man of
to-day, approaching correspondingly the anthropoid form. They
are rather slender and small, even in the adult male. The tympanic
ring, on the other hand, is massive; and the glenoid fossx are not
horizontal or nearly so, as in man of to-day, but are very perceptibly
slanting in such a manner that their distal end is decidedly higher
than the mesial. Many of these features connect the Krapina man
directly or indirectly with earlier primate forms, and have since be-
come largely reduced or eliminated in the human skull.

The jaws (pls. 26, 27) and teeth, like other cranial parts, present
many marks of less advanced stage of evolution. The lower jaws in
particular are very interesting. The symphisis or fore part of these
bones, while possessing already a faint trace of the future chin emi-
nence, slopes invariably more or less downward and backward, thus
approaching the form of the mandible in apes (pls. 26, 27). The
bones are massive and in males very high. They are akin to the lower
jaws of the La Quina and La Chapelle skulls, and represent de-
cidedly more primitive forms than the mandibule of any man of
historic times, though they are considerably nearer to the modern
type than the jaw of Mauer.

Of the upper maxilla there are eight or nine imperfect speci-
mens, the majority from young subjects. They differ in develop-
ment and conformation, but primitive characteristics are numerous.
One of the best-preserved fragments, marked “E” or “19” pro-
ceeding probably from a male adolescent and representing the part
of the jaw from the right median incisor to the left second pre-
molar, shows considerable height of the bone, a straight and consid-
erably prognathic alveolar process, a very spacious high palate, pro-
nounced subnasal fossee, and broad nasal aperture.

The teeth of the Krapina man offer numerous peculiarities most
of which point to lower stages of differentiation (pl. 28). They are
in general very perceptibly larger than those of the modern white
man; their roots, especially, are longer; and there are various de-
tails of form, particularly in the crowns of the incisors and molars,
some of which are related to anthropoid features. Notwithstanding
these facts, the Krapina teeth, and particularly the canines, are on
the whole relatively near those of present man.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLAS 277.

b

@. KRAPINA LOWER JAW ‘H,” FROM APPROXIMATELY A 13-YEAR-OLD CHILD.
b. KRAPINA LOWER JAW “C,’’ FROM ABOVE.

(After Gorjanoyié-Kramberger. )
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliéka.

PLATE 28.

A NUMBER OF THE KRAPINA TEETH, MORE OR LESS ENLARGED.

1, permanent median upper incisor from a small child; la, the same, greater enlargement; 2, per-
manent upper canine, root not as yet fully developed; 3, permanent anterior lower premolar, right
side; 3a, the same in greater enlargement; 4, permanent second (?) upper molar; 5, permanent
lower left second molar; 6, permanent left lower first molar; 6a, the same, much enlarged; 7, per-
manent upper median incisor, edge worn off; 8, the same; 9, lateral upper permanent incisor; 10, the
samc; 11, a third permanent molar; lla, thesamein greater enlargement; 12, the left lower permanent
second molar; 12a, the same much more enlarged; 13, the right permanent second molar; 18a, the
same in greater enlargement; 14, a third permanent molar; 14a, the samein greater enlargement;
15, a permanent third molar; 15a, the same. (From Gorjanovi¢c-Kramberger Mitth. Anthrop. Ges.
Wien XXXI.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—-HRDLICKA. 533

Taking everything into consideration, it is evident that the diluvial
man of Krapina represents a group belonging to the family of the
Homo neanderthalensis. Ue is very ancient and in many respects
anatomically primitive, though he also shows in various details an
advancement toward the actual human form; and we can readily
adopt Prof. Gorjanovié-Kramberger’s opinion that morphologically
the Krapina man is not any special, collateral, and extinct branch of
the genus Homo, but more probably a direct and not excessively far
distant ancestor of the Womo sapiens.

THE PLEISTOCENE MAN OF JERSEY (ENGLAND).

In 1910 Messrs. Nicolle and Sinel, of the Island of Jersey, gave
notice in A/an and in a bulletin of the Jersey Society, of the dis-
covery in an old cave on the Island of Jersey of twelve highly in-
teresting human teeth, belonging to a man of the Mousterian epoch.
The principal details of the find, according to the clear account pre-
sented by the two authors and confirmed by the writer’s observations
on the spot, are as follows:

The cave where the ancient human remains were found is known
as La Cotte, or La Cotte de St. Brelade, and is situated in a rough
irregular cliff near the eastern horn of St. Brelade’s Bay, Jersey.
At this part of the island granite rocks, considerably weathered and
broken, rise steeply to about 200 feet above mean tide level, the shore
at their base being covered with accumulations of large, rounded,
waterworn bowlders (pls. 29-81).

In one part of these cliffs there is an irregular rough ravine or

gorge, about 40 feet in width, which penetrates inland about 150
feet. The side walls of this ravine are, in a large part, quite ver-
tical, and in the base of these walls on the left, near the upper ter-
minus of the gorge, is a large cave which bears the above name.

Before its exploration, the La Cotte cave was nearly filled by clay,
bowlders, and blocks fallen from the much-weathered roof, and
rubble drift in the form of a steeply sloping talus lay in front, ob-
scuring a large portion of the mouth. Removal of this drift re-
vealed the outline of the opening in the form of an irregular arch
(pl. 31).

The first indication that the cave had once been utilized by man
dates from 1881, when two local naturalists, while “ geologizing ” on
that part of the coast, found a flint implement at the foot of the
talus, and, tracing its source, came upon a slightly exposed section
of the cave floor. There they found flint chippings, and one or two
bones, apparently of a large bird, but no importance was attached
to the discovery. About 1894, two members of the Société Jersiaise,

1Nicolle, E. T., and J. Sinel. Report on the exploration of the palaeolithic cave
dwelling known as La Cotte, St. Brelade, Jersey. (Man. vol. 10, 1910, No. 102, pp. 185-
188. Reprinted in 36° Bulletin de la Société Jersiaise, Jersey, p. 69.)
534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Mr. R. Colson and Dr. Chappuis, excavated a portion of the ex-
posed floor section of the cave and found a considerable number of
flint implements and besides that a quantity of bone breccia, which
contained one tooth and one metatarsal of a variety of horse.

Subsequently various partial examinations of the accumulations
in the cave resulted in the discovery of implements, and of a large
number of flint chippings. All these are preserved in the Museum of
the Société Jersiaise, at St. Heliére.

In September, 1905, finally, the Jersey Society decided to explore
the cave systematically, and Dr. Chappuis, Mr. Nicolle the secretary,
and Mr. Colson, commenced work in that part of the exposed floor
already mentioned. More flint implements were discovered, but
at the commencement of October the work had to be abandoned owing
to the rainy season and to the fact that the explorers were excavat-
ing under dangerous conditions. It then became clear that a consider-
able portion of the talus as well as some of the threatening rocks
overhead had to be removed before the work could proceed.

Thus matters remained until July, 1910, when the sowety resolved
to make another attempt at the exploration of the cave. With the
help of experienced quarrymen excavation was commenced on Au-
_ gust 1, and after a little over three weeks’ work, sufficient of the
rubble had been removed to reveal the form of the interior of the
cave and to lay bare a portion of the floor about 11 feet square to the
left of the entrance.

The dimensions of the cave as revealed at this stage were as fol-
lows: The entrance was 25 feet in height and about 20 feet in width.
Just within, the roof sloped’ upward into a rough dome 30 to 32 feet
from the floor. How far the cave entered the rock could not be as-
certained, but judging from the slope of the roof downward towards
the back, it was probably some 40 to 50 feet.

As soon as a portion of the floor had been reached a careful search
and examination were commenced, with the following results:

The floor proper was not clearly marked, for layers of black soil,
which proved to be a combination of ashes, carbonized wood and
clay, were mixed up with whitish masses of bone detritus and clay
compacted into breccia. Flint implements and ne were inter-
spersed plentifully throughout these deposits.

On the left of the entrance and at a distance Hoot it of about 8
feet, was a hearth containing a quantity—probably a quarter of a ton
or so—of wood ashes and carbonized wood. Close together, among
the ashes of the hearth, were a few pebbles of granite and felsite
bearing indications of having been heated.

The presence of bones was manifest all through the layers con-
stituting the floor, but due to advanced decomposition of the material,
the cave not being a dry one, only here and there could fragments
«SISNAGV1344g

OWOH,, S3HL SO SNIVWAY Ga0TaIA LVHL SAVQO SHL GALVOO7] SI HOIHM NI AYOLNOWOYd AMOOY SHL JO MAIA LNVLSIG V

eicmalavalel

= x, payael Pr] 2} ;
yrosje Je yusod 243 punou yen! payenyis-s! JLLO9-W7 Jo-2Ae 2
(2P HY)
“LISWIF : SICHIIUG SF
MIWA) + ANI] BLO) ¥4

2 : sien
= —_ = tow > ~
~
AL
x % aN
; TS ~ BES Pig AON
ce y = 3 ee Ss RA eS
EUAN eS és Seis Fe
} , ‘ A Sea ee
: i: << ara AS EEN =
i 3 ee
; =
.

< e =

Z ees oe >

oe as
ie ; -
* 77 If eZ coe
; 4 PES Beata

¥ oS}

"exQIIPIH—'E 161 ‘Hoday uejuosy}}WS
“GSYuSA00SIG AYAM
«SISNSGV134Hd OWOH,, 3HL 43O SNIVNSY SYSHM ‘AaSHa ‘Sa0V1IaHgG “LS ‘31109 V7 LV 3AVO SHL JO SONVLSIG SWOS WOUS MIA V

Y

Y getay efits Mata Aer erg
MS 2U7 OY 4201 & Way
76
IAW) 247 Butaxoys INI 3410) "I

‘OS. aLV1d ‘EMIIJUH—'EL6| ‘odey ueluOsyyIWS
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 535

retaining any form be obtained. Nevertheless, in one corner, at a
slightly higher elevation than the earth, there was found a mass of
bone from which some determinable portions could be secured; and
a careful examination of this mass led to the most important result
of the excavations to this time, namely, the discovery of nine human
teeth. Three of these were from the upper, five from the lower jaw.
They represent, as was later determined, teeth of both sides and of
one individual, but unfortunately no trace of the once supporting
bone was any more apparent.

All the bones and teeth recovered from the cave were taken to the
British Museum for determination, and Drs. Woodward and An-
drews identified the specimens as follows:

ANIMAL TEETH: Part of left lower premolar of the wooly rhinoceros, Rhinoce-
ros tichorhinus; last premolar and first molar of reindeer, Rangifer taran-
dus (a large species apparently as large as the caribou); upper cheek
teeth of a small species of Horse; parts of lower molars and upper cheek
tooth of a large species of Horse; lower teeth in portion of jaw of one of
small Bovidze; and left incisor of Bos, Spec.?

NINE HUMAN TEETH, with subsequent recovery of four others.

BoNES AND HORNS: Part of horn core of one of small Bovide; portion of antler
of reindeer; bone, probably from articulation of foreleg of a deer; pelvic
bones, probably from a small bovid; and a piece of bone, which fell to
pieces on removal, from a rhinoceros.

Among the fragments that could not be definitely determined was
apparently a portion of a human tibia.

Of flint instruments about 100 have been obtained. They are,
without exception, of the well-known tongue-shaped Mousterian type,
the “ pointe a main ” of Mortillet.

The cave gave no evidence of other than one occupation, and is
thus probably free from the confusion which results when implements
and remains of the fauna of different periods occur together and
have become mixed by the work of burrowing animals, water during
floods, and other agencies, as is often the case in similar deposits.

By their fauna and the uniform type of stone implements, the La
Cotte cave deposits are shown clearly to be of the Mousterian epoch.

Further explorations of the site were carried on under the auspices
of the Jersey Society in 1911 and again in 1912. They are reported
by Nicolle and Sinel and by Marett.1. They threw considerable light
on the nature of the cave and its filling, and were extended to what

1 Nicolle, E. T., and Sinel. Report on the resumed exploration of ‘‘ La Cotte,” St.
Brelade, by the Société Jersiaise, 1911. (Man, vol 12, 1912, No. 88, pp. 158-162. Also
in 37° Bulletin de la Société Jersiaise, 1912, pp. 2138-222.)

Marett, R. R. PJeistocene Man in Jersey. (Archexologia, vol. 62, Oxford, 1911, pp.
449-480.)

Marett, R. R. Further observations on prehistoric man in Jersey. (Archzologia, vol.
63, 1912, pp. 1-28.)

Marett, R. R., and G. F. B. De Gruchy. Excavation of a further portion of La Cotte
de St. Brelade. (38° Bulletin de la Société Jersiaise, 1913, pp. 326-330.)
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

may prove to have been a part of the same hollow on the base of the
wall of the opposite side of the gorge (“la Cotte de St. Brelade
II”—Marett). They resulted in the discovery in both caves of
numerous additional flint implements, all of the Mousterian type,
and in the older excavation of more fragments of animal bones,
referable principally to the wooly rhinoceros, the reindeer, a large
variety of horse, and probably the Bos primigenius. But no further
human bones or teeth came to notice.

Meanwhile the human teeth (pl. 32) were subjected to careful ex-
amination by Prof. Keith, of the Royal College of Surgeons, and
Mr. Knowles, of the Oxford University. The results of these studies
were published in 1911 in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,
and later, with some additions, in the thirty-seventh bulletin of the
Jersey Society. The following embraces the gist of these reports, as
well as of the writer’s own observations.?

The teeth are in an unexpectedly good state of preservation, only
the terminal parts of the roots being broken away. Their color is
dark brown, with grayish white somewhat chalky looking crowns.
All show an advanced degree of fossilization. The apices of the
cusps were worn away in life and the finer architecture of the crown
is as if faded, probably through corrosive action of the moisture
in the deposits that enclosed the specimens.

Five of the teeth, namely a second left premolar, a first right and
a second left molar, and the right and left third molar, with a part of
the root of left incisor, belong to the upper jaw, while seven are from
the lower jaw, being respectively a canine, first and second pre-
molar with second molar of the left side, and a second incisor with
second and third molars of the right side. All are probably from the
same set and their characteristics are such that the ancient man they
represent must be ranked anthropologically as one of the most primi-
tive yet discovered.

The following illustration (pl. 33), shows a reconstruction of
the upper and lower dental arches of the St. Brelade man, by Keith
and Knowles, and the upper arch in the modern human skull, after
Cunningham. It is seen at a glance that the Jersey teeth are larger
chan the modern in every direction and that in consequence the dental
arches themselves must have been considerably larger.

1Keith, A., and Ff. H. 8. Knowles. A description of teeth of paleolithic man from
Jersey. (Journ. Anat. Physiol., London, vol. 46, 1911, pp. 12-27. Reprinted, with an
additional note, in 37° Bulletin de la Société Jersiaise, 1912, pp. 223-240. Abstract in
Nature, vol. 86, 1911, pp. 415-416.)

2In June, 1912, the writer visited Jersey to examine the originals of these teeth and
to visit the cave where they were discovered, and he wishes to *warmly thank Mr.
Sinel and Dr. Dunlap for the courteous treatment and facilities which they extended to
him on this oceasion, as well as Captain Rybot, of the 76 Punjabis, for his service in
furnishing excellent sketches of the locality.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdliéka. PLATE 31.

THE COTTE DE ST. BRELADE FROM NEAR.

(From a photograph furnished the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. R. R. Marett, of Oxford. )
(ployxO JO ‘Youv “WW ad Aq UOTNANSUT UBLMOSYILUIS 9Y} 07 poystuany ydvasojoyd v w0Iy)
TaWEsel ANSP SIAL

GE 3LV1d PxQPIH—E 161 ‘Woday uel

WS
CWWHONINNND Y3LSY) “HLSSL ONV HOY IVLN3Q Yaddfq) NYSGOW\—"a “DdI4
CHLIZY YALSV) “HOUY YVIOSATY Y3ddf] HL JO NOILONYLSNOOSY HLIM ‘SNOILISOd ATSVdOUd YISHL NI ‘NVI AZSUSP SHL 4O MVP Y3ddf) SHL JO HL331—¢ ‘O14
CHLISY Y3LsY) “HOYY YVIO3ATY Y3MO7] JO NOILONYLSNOOSY HLIM ‘SNOILISOd 3TSVEOUd HISHL NI G3OV1d ‘NVI A3SU3P 3HL JO MVP YaMO7 JO HLS] —» ‘oly

Y "OI4

Nace vee

KN : ‘ ‘\ .

g Hip Sif * ‘ y .

a f = sis OH y a |
ey a ee ee ee Se ao en
s ‘ Became 2) a \ ' \ a % ? bs .

Su APE WEN

eee (aie Been; :

AN !

"6 SLvid "PAQIIPIH—"E LOL ‘HOdsy UelUosYTUG
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 537

Another feature in which the Jersey teeth differ even more radi-
cally from the recent, is their extraordinarily stout roots. The dia-
meters of the neck and roots of the Jersey teeth are almost equal to
and in some cases exceed those of the crown, indicating that rela-
tively great requirements were made on the teeth by the quality and
possibly also quantity of the food. Such roots indicate unmistakably
strong muscles of mastication and a stout massive lower jaw, prob-
ably somewhat smaller but scarcely less powerful than the still
earlier Mauer mandible.

The roots of the Jersey premolars and molars are not only stout
but they are also to a large extent fused. This is not an anthropoid
feature, for in the higher apes these roots are well apart. The fusion
is due to great development of the dentine and cement of the roots,
brought about in this early man, in the opinion of Keith and Knowles,
by a changed manner of mastication, characterized by more lateral
besides vertical movements of the lower jaw. Other primitive fea-
tures of the teeth are the early filling of the pulp cavities by deposits
of dentine, thus providing an early adaptation for wear; the size
and characters of the first premolars, which contrary to what occurs
in present man are larger than the second bicuspids; and certain
features of the canine as well as the molars.

Without going into more details, for which the reader will need
to consult the originals—it may safely be concluded that the Jer-
sey teeth constitute another valuable document of man’s ancestry;
and that they show an early man, probably an earlier representative
of the Homo neanderthalensis, already quite advanced in denture
from the prehuman forms, but still with teeth much more powerful
as well as less specifically differentiated than those of present man.

The cave accumulations from which these teeth came are, fortu-
nately, still far from exhausted which gives hopes of further im-
portant discoveries. The first cavern itself still presents a large
accumulation of deposits that have not been explored, and, as men-
tioned above, there has been tapped a second cave in the rock oppo-
site, while a communication between the two, as yet untouched, seems
to le behind the sagged-down rocks at the head of the ravine. The
distant parts of these hollows in particular demands examination.
The Société Jersiaise, under whose auspices the explorations of the
site have hitherto progressed, will place the scientific world under
especial obligation by carrying the work on with equal care to its
conclusion.?

1Since this was written, a grant has been secured from the British Association for
the Advancement of Science, by Dr. R. R. Marett, for further exploration of the cave,
and in a recent letter to the writer Dr. Marett intimates that the work under this grant
was not fruitless.
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

THE FOSSIL MAN OF LA CHAPELLE-AUX-SAINTS.

One of the most interesting, best authenticated, and thanks to
Prof. Marcellin Boule now best-known skeletons of Early Man, is
that of “the fossil man of La Chapelle-Aux-Saints.

La Chapelle-Aux-Saints is a small village in the Department of
Corréze, near the small railroad station of Vayrac and south of the
town of Brive, in southern France. A little over 200 yards from the
village and beyond the left bank of the small stream Sourdoire, in the
side of a moderate elevation, is located a cave, now known as that of
La Chapelle-Aux-Saints (pl. 34). In 1905 archeological exploration
of this cave was undertaken by three Corréze priests, the abbés A. and
J. Bouyssonie and L. Bardon. These explorations which from the
beginning were successful, resulting in the recovery of numerous in-
dustrial and other vestiges of paleolithic man, progressed gradually
until the uniform archeological stratum was nearly exhausted, when,
on the 8d of August, 1908, the excavators came across a shallow arti-
ficial fossa in the floor of the cave in which lay the bones of a remark-
able human skeleton.

The human bones were carefully gathered and sent to Prof. Boule,
of the Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, in Paris, where they were
cleaned and, as far as possible, restored; and the following December
Prof. Boule demonstrated the skull, giving at the same time the first
account of the find, before the Paris Academy of Sciences. One
week later Messrs. Bouyssonie and Bardon presented before the Acad-
emy their own observations, and these reports were followed at short
intervals by several others before the same scientific body.’

Subsequently the skull and other parts of the skeleton were sub-
jected by Prof. Boule to a thorough study and comparison, and the
results of his work are published in a series of communications ex-
tending through the sixth, seventh and eighth volumes of the An-
nales de Paléontologie.®

The various reports show that the cave of La Chapelle-Aux-Saints
is a moderate-sized and rather low cavity, about 6 meters (6.5 yards)
long, 2 to 4 meters (2.2 to 4.4 yards) broad, and 1 to 1.50 meters (1.1
to 1.6 yards) high (fig. 9). When first approached it was seen to be
nearly filled with accumulations, which later disclosed numerous
traces of man, and by débris of the rock from the roof and sides.
The deposits bearing traces of the presence of man were found to

1 Boule, M. L’Homme fossile de La Chapelle-Aux-Saints. (C. R. Acad. se, 14 Dee.,
Ua also L’Anthropologie vol. 19, 1908, pp. 513 and 519; vol. 20, 1909, p. 257; and
vol. 22, 1911, p. 129.)

2 Bouyssonie, A. J., and L, Bardon. Découverte d’un squelette humain moustérien 4 la
bouffia de La Chapelle-Aux-Saints. (C. R. 21 Dec., 1908.) Boule, M. Sur la capacité
cranienne des Hommes fossiles°du type dit de Neanderthal. (C. R. 17 May, 1909.)
La squelette du trone et des membres de Homme fossile de La Chapelle-Aux-Saints.
(C. R. 7 June, 1909.)

8 Paris, 1911 to 1913. Also published as a separate volume,
Comnog 1aj7 Vy)
"SAVO SLNIVG-XNV-311SadVHO V7 AHL

“pS saLV1d ‘eMON|PIH—" E161 ‘yoday ueiuosyyws
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PEATERSOF

THE LA CHAPELLE-AUX-SAINTS SKULL. SIDE VIEW.

(After Boule.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLIOKA. 539

proceed from but one age and one culture, namely the Mousterian.
The objects of archeological interest recovered during the excavation
comprise in the main worked stones of the well-known Mousterian
types, and remains of bones of fossil animals, such as the reindeer,
bison, Rhinoceros tichorhinus, etc. The animal remains indicate that
the deposits date from somewhere near the middle of the glacial
epoch.

Under the accumulations the fioor of the cavern was found to be
whitish, hard, marly calcareous; and in this hard base, at the dis-
tance of a little over four meters from the entrance of the cave, was
located the nearly rectangular, moderate-sized cavity * which lodged
the fossil human skeleton. The depression was clearly made by the

ala,
art eed fore,
pow! AM “Seely
PAG ® a6,

*
< 2
“ee wo Ss

Enlrauce

a

Fig. 9.—CAvrE or LA CHAPELLE-AUX-SAIntTs. (After Bouyssonie & Bardon, and Boule.)
a, Floor; b, longitudinal section; c, transverse sections.

primitive inhabitants or visitors of the cave for the body and the
whole represents very plainly a regular burial, the most ancient in-
tentional burial thus far discovered.

The body lay on its back, with the head to the westward, the
latter being surrounded by stones. The left arm was extended, the
right probably bent so that the hand was applied to or lay near the
head. The lower limbs were partly flexed. Above the head were
found three or four large flat fragments of long bones of animals, and
somewhat higher there lay, still in their natural relation, some foot
bones of a large Bovid, suggesting that the whole foot of the animal
may have been placed in that position. About the body were many

11.45 meters long, 1 m. broad, and 30 cm. deep.
540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

flakes of quartz and flint, some fragments of ochre, broken animal
bones, etc., much as in the rest of the archeological stratum above
the skeleton.

There was no indication that the deposits in the cave have been
moved in any way since the burial of the human body. To the right
of the fossa containing the skeleton there was an abundance of large
fragments of various animal bones, of jaws and vertebra of the rein-
deer, and vertebre of a large Bovid, with some well-made implements
of flint. The last-named vertebree and the flint implements were
covered by two large blocks of stone; and above these stones, at the
side wall of the cave, the earth showed the effects of fire. but it was
not possible to determine whether this was of the same date as the
deposits or the human burial beneath.

Notwithstanding the care taken in the excavation some parts of
the human skeleton were lost. What remains comprises the skull,
almost complete, with the lower jaw; 21 vertebrae or pieces of same;
20 ribs or their fragments; an incomplete left clavicle; the two
humeri, almost complete; the two radii and the two ulne, all more or
less defective; a few bones of the hands and feet; portions of the
pelvic bones, fragments of the right femur (from which it is possible
to reconstruct the bone) and the lower half of the left femur; the
two patelle, and parts of the tibie.

The state of preservation of the specimens is exactly like that of
the animal bones recovered from the deposits above the burial fossa.
They are ferruginous in color, heavier than any corresponding recent
human bones and very perceptibly mineralized.

Due to the kindness of Prof. Boule the writer was enabled in 1912
to see the originals of the Chapelle-aux-Saints skeleton. At that
time, however, Prof. Boule’s investigations on the specimens were
not yet completed, in consequence of which it was not possible to
undertake any detailed study on the bones, but even a brief examina-
tion was sufficient to impress one deeply, particularly in the case of
the skull, with the great scientific value of the remains. They repre-
sent unquestionably another precious addition to the rapidly aug-
menting material evidence of the highly interesting type of ancient
man, the Homo neanderthalensis.

Since the writer’s visit to the Paris Museum, Prof. Boule’s reports
on the La Chapelle skeleton have been published in full. With these
well-illustrated reports as well as a plaster model of the skull, and
with what it was feasible to observe on the originals, it is possible to
give the following brief notes on these specimens.

The La Chapelle skull, notwithstanding its many peculiarities, is
plainly a normal specimen, not affected (except in the dental arches)
by any disease or by any premature closure of sutures (pls. 35, 36).
Comnog riyVv)
'SM3IA dOL GNV LNOY4 NI SLNIVS-XNV-377SdVHO V7 JO TINNS SHL

"QE ALV1d PYQIIPIH—'ELEL Wodey uejuosyyWS
(‘anog Iai) (‘amnog raqyy)

"AdA | IWHLYSGNVAN 3H1 4O STINYS YSHLO GNV "ANW1d
3113dVHO V7] SHL NI ANVId WWOILYSA SHL JO ANITLNO “4 AVOILYSA NI 'SLNIV9-XNV-311adVHO V7] 4SO TINS 3HL “YD
q v7)

~ jeuyapueedN

——— alaclouig @F

PAS, SUA "PAQI|PAH—'ELBL ‘Hoday ueluosy}IWs
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 541

The skull is distinctly masculine, and proceeds from an adult of
somewhat advanced age.

Its vault is remarkably like that of the Neanderthal cranium,
though somewhat larger. There is the same huge, prominent, com-
plete supraorbital arch. The nasal process is equally broad and
sloping considerably downward and backward. Due to the pro-
nounced supraorbital arch the upper half of the orbits, as in the
Neanderthal skull, has a somewhat forward and downward inclina-
tion, wholly unlike that of any man of to-day. The forehead, while
low, is somewhat better formed than in the Neanderthal and Spy
No. I crania and less sloping. The sagittal region is smooth and oval
from side to side. The occiput is broad and shows a fair protrusion
but as general in the Neanderthal type of skulls and in harmony with
the rest of the vault, it is decidedly low. The outline of the vault
when viewed from above is a prolonged ovoid, mildly asymetric in
its posterior portion, due to a slightly greater size and protrusion
backward of the right side (pl. 37). The mastoids are remarkably
moderate for a male skull and one of this size, approaching in this
respect the earlier primate form. The zygomae are stout and widely
expanded, due to powerful temporal muscles.

The bones of the vault, again, as in the Neanderthal and other
crania of this type, are thicker than in the skulls of modern man;
nevertheless the capacity of the skull was quite large. Prof. Boule
estimates it at from 1,600 to 1,620 c. c. This indicates not necessarily
a superior brain, but rather one subserving to largely developed
organs and powerful musculature.

Turning to the base of the skull, we find that while the glenoid
fossee, excepting their large size and one or two other peculiarities,
are more like those of recent man than those for instance in the
Krapina crania, the foramen magnum is of a very large size! and is
situated, or rather extends farther backward than in man of the
present day. There were probably other primitive features of the
base, which the damaged parts do not allow to determine with cer-
tainty (figs. 10, 11).

The facial parts show malar bones with powerful frontal and
zygomatic processes, but rather small and not prominent body. The
nasal structures indicate that the nose was quite long and very broad;
but the lower borders of the nasal aperture are already fairly sharp,
as In more modern crania, and the nasal spine, though bifid, was well
developed.

The orbits are not excessively high, but are spacious and deep.
The suborbital (canine) fosse are totally absent, the maxilla showing

+ Corresponding to a stout spinal cord, which is generally associated with a pronounced
development of the motor system and other parts of the body.
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

in their place even a slight convexity. The lower part of the face
was prognathic, though evidently not excessively so. The dental
arches regrettably show extensive effects of a suppurative process, as
the result of which all but one or two of the teeth in the two jaws
have been lost, and the height of the alveolar processes was much
reduced by absorption. All that can be determined is that the sub-
nasal portion of the upper jaw was quite high, and that the palate
was enormous.

Fig. 10—SKULL OF THE FOSSIL MAN OF LA CHAPELLE-AUX-SAINTS, AFTER RESTORATION OF THE NASAL
BONES AND JAws. (After Boule; reproduced by MacCurdy, Smithsonian Report for 1909.)

The lower jaw is large, stout, chinless—though not sloping back-
ward at the symphisis, and otherwise primitive. It was doubtless
high, but the reduction of the alveolar process through pyorrheea
and absorption does not permit a definite appreciation of this
character.

Although only two badly worn premolars remain in the two jaws,
it can nevertheless be clearly seen from the size of their roots, from
the alveoli and from the size of the dental arches, that the teeth in
this skull must have been very large.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HREDLICKA. 543

The long and other bones of the skeleton are, on the whole, less
remarkable than those of the Neanderthal or Spy remains, but the
peculiarities and primitive features which they possess are of much
the same order. The stature of the Chapelle-aux-Saints man is esti-
mated by Prof. Boule to have been about 1.611 meters (5 ft. 3 in.),
which is close to that of the Neanderthal man and the man of Spy.
The bones are robust; the extremities of the long bones are large.
The radii and ulne and especially the tibie and fibule, are again, as
in other skeletons of the Neanderthal type, relatively short. There

Bet

Fig. 11.— PROFILES OF THE CRANIUM OF A CHIMPANZEE, THE CRANIUM OF LA CHA-
PELLE-AUX-SAINTS, AND THAT OF A MODERN FRENCHMAN SUPERPOSED, AND
WITH A COMMON BASI-NASAL LINE EQUAL IN LENGTH FOR EACH. (After Boule;
reproduced by MacCurdy, Smithsonian Report for 1909.)

Ba., Basion; Na., Nasion.

is also the pronounced curvature to the radius; and there are other
peculiarities about the specimens an enumeration of which in this
place is not feasible. Certain of these peculiarities indicate, accord-
ing to Prof. Boule, that the individual from whom the Chapelle-aux-
Saints skeletal remains proceed had, in common with others of the
Neanderthal type, not as yet reached a fully erect posture.

The study of the brain of this individual, so far as possible from a
cast of the cranial cavity, also shows various features of importance.1

+Boule, M., and R. Anthony. L’encéphale de homme fossile de La Chapelle-aux-
Saints, (L’Anthropologie, vol. 22, 1911, pp. 129-196.)
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Among the more strictly human characteristics are its large size,
normally always a very favorable feature, though not necessarily an
index of high intelligence; a predominance in size of the left over
the right hemisphere; and certain other anatomical features. The
more simian characteristics included espécially the general form of
the organ, the evident simplicity and coarseness of the convolutions,
and the relatively poor development of the frontal parts, which is
more pointed forward than obtains in man of to-day. “The brain,
on the whole,” to quote Prof. Boule, “is already human by the
abundance of the cerebral substance; but this substance is still lack-
ing the advanced organization which characterizes the brain of the
actual man.”

Regrettably, the La Chapelle-aux-Saints cave has now been com-
pletely exhausted, so that no hope can be entertained of securing
further specimens from this particular spot; but the site lies in a
region which is under careful scientific observation and other im-
portant discoveries in the neighborhood may yet be possible.

THE “LA QUINA” SKELETON.

On the 16th of October, 1911, Dr. Henri Martin, a physician and
archeologist of Paris, reported before the Académie des Sciences of
Paris the find of a very remarkable ancient human skeleton, at La
Quina, Department of Charente, in France. “ We have discovered,”
he says, “on the 18th of September, at La Quina, a human skeleton
of the Neanderthal type.” It lay in a horizontal position, in clayey
sand, at the distance of 4.5 meters from the base of a cliff. The de-
posits in which it rested represent the ancient muddy bed of the
near-by stream Voultron, and belong, archeologically, to the lower
Mousterian epoch. The clayey sand was covered by débris from the
cliff portion, which in former times extended shelf lke over the
stream.

The skeleton lay 80 cm. (2.6 ft.) deep in the sand, and was not
surrounded by any objects which would indicate an intentional burial.
Its location and position seemed to show that the body was deposited
where it lay accidentally. The clayey sand contained a few dis-
seminated worked stones and a few bones that have been utilized by
man, but showed none of the handsome pieces which characterized
the superior Mousterian epoch. The age of the skeleton is, in all
probability, referable to the earliest part of the middle Quaternary.

The remains have suffered from prolonged submersion and pres-
sure, as a result of which the cranial bones were disjointed and in
part broken; but from the first instant it could readily be seen that

1Martin, Henri. Sur un squelette humain de Il’époque moustérienne trouvé en
Charente. (Comptes Rendus, tome 153, 1911, p. 728.)
Smithsonian Report, 1913,—Hrdlicka. PLATE 38.

THE LA QUINA SKULL AND PARTS OF THE SKELETON STILL IN THE MATRIX.
(After H. Martin.)
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. PLATE 39.

THE LA QUINA SKULL, PARTLY RECONSTRUCTED.
(After H. Martin.)
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLICKA. 545

the cranium presented in a high degree certain primitive character-
istics in which it approaches those of the Neanderthal type.

A little later in the year Dr. Martin made a somewhat more exten-
sive report on the find before the Prehistoric Society of France,
and in 1912 he published four other accounts relating to the dis-
covery.2, From these publications it appears that archeological ex-
plorations at La Quina by Dr. Martin and others had been carried
on intermittently for seven years before the human skeleton came to
light, yielding many examples of paleolithic stone industries refer-
able in the main to the upper or younger division of the Mousterian
epoch. In addition a number of human teeth and various fragments
of human bones, belonging to the upper Mousterian, were encountered
during this time, but none, barring perhaps a larger portion of one
lower jaw, are of special importance.®

The sandy layer which contained the La Quina skeleton yielded
some worked stones representing lance points, knives, and scrapers,
but all of inferior workmanship. Evidence was also found in traces
of fire and calcined bones, that man of the period represented by the
skeleton lived or took refuge in the caverns or holes of the cliff above.
The animals on which the La Quina man lived were the reindeer,
bison, horse, and rarely also the mammoth. The total Mousterian
deposits at La Quina indicate a long duration of the epoch, and one
during which man advanced considerably in the way of manufacture
of his stone utensils.

The bones of the skeleton were taken to Paris, partly still in the
sediments with which they were surrounded, and were then most
carefully worked out from the matrix (pl. 38). The different parts
of the skull, it was found, besides being disjointed, were forced to-
gether so as to overlap, while the facial parts were broken and to a
large extent deficient. With what was left of the jaws were 14 of
the teeth.

The remains were seen at first sight to present a number of impor-
tant primitive characteristics. The frontal bone showed a very pro-
nounced supraorbital arch, with low and sloping forehead; the vault,
it could readily be determined, had been low; the temporal fosse
were spacious, for the accommodation of powerful temporal muscles;

1Martin, Henri. Presentation d’un crane humain trouvé avec le squelette a la base
du Moustérien de La Quina (Charente). (Bulletin de la Société Préhistorique Frangaise,
Séance du 26 Oct., 1911, pp. 1-12, 3 pls.)

2 A propos de la découverte de ivyhomme fossile de La Quina. (Annales de la Faculté
des Lettres de Bordeaux, etc., 4th series, vol. 14, 1912, pp. 61-64.) Le Crane de
VYhomme fossile Moustérien de La Quina. (C. R. A. F. A. 8. 1912, pp. 537-538.)
L’homme fossile Moustérien de La Quina (Bull. Soc. Préhistorique Francaise, 1912,
pp. 1-36, 4 pls.), and Position stratigraphique des Ossements humains recueillis dans
le Moustérien de La Quina de 1908 21912. (Bull. Soc. Préhist. Francaise, 1912, pp. 1-8,
1 pl.)

® Pictured in the publication last named in footnote 2,

44863°—smM 1913 35

546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the jaws, particularly the mandible, were heavy; and the teeth were
large:in size, besides showing other remarkable features.

In June, 1912, Dr. Martin kindly showed the precious originals to
the writer. At that time the skull was already fairly well restored,
and impressed one as a typical, though not very massive, representa-
tive of the Neanderthal type of crania (pl. 39). It presents the same
extraordinary supraorbital arch, a similar low forehead, similarly
low vault, and similar ovoid outline when looked at from above, as
the Neanderthal, Spy, Gibraltar, and other skulls of the group; but
the occiput is rather more protruding. The lower jaw is stout and
evidently possessed little, if any, chin prominence; the teeth, though
considerably worn off, are very large. There is nothing pathological
about the specimen or other parts of the skeleton. The individual
from whom it proceeds was an adult of perhaps 45 years of age, and,
in the opinion of Dr. Martin, supported by the relative gracility of
the bones, it was a female. The skull, as well as the other bones,
show advanced state of mineralization. The color of the skull is
ocher to brownish yellow, with areas or ramifications of darker
brown. <As to the teeth, the dentine parts are darkened, but the
enamel is well preserved and white. The other bones of the skeleton
are yellowish gray.

The long and other bones, so far as saved, indicate an individual
of moderate stature and good, but not excessive, musculature. As
to the detailed characteristics of the bones as well those of the
skull, it will be necessary to await the complete report by Dr. Martin.

An ingenious effort at a reconstruction of the head and neck of
the La Quina woman by Dr. Martin will be found in the Bulletin
de la Société Préhistorique Francaise, of 1913.?

THE MOUSTIER MAN.

Still another highly interesting and scientifically valuable skeleton
of early man, recently discovered, is that of the so-called “Homo
mousteriensis Hauseri.” The skeleton is preserved in the Museum
fiir Vélkerkunde at Berlin, where it was seen by the writer. It was
discovered in March 1908, by O. Hauser, during archeological exca-
vation in what is known as “the lower Moustier cave,” or “ paleo-
lithic station number 44,” at Le Moustier, in the valley of the Vezére.
Department of Dordogne, France, and was eventually purchased
from Herr Hauser for the Berlin Museum.

The cave in question (fig. 12), or more properly rock shelter, when
excavated gave numerous evidences of man’s occupation, but no hu-
man bones. The skeleton under consideration was discovered in the
terrace in front of the cave, almost vertically below its entrance. It

1Séance du 27 Février, 1913.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka. Plate 40.

HOMO MOUSTERIENSIS, FROM THE CAVERN OF LE MOUSTIER (DORDOGNE).
(After MacCurdy, from the Smithsonian Report for 1909.)
PLATE 41.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Hrdlicka.

THE SKULL OF HOMO MOUSTERIENSIS HOUSERI. SIDE VIEW.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN-—HRDLICKA. 547

lay about 3 feet deep and no disturbance in the superimposed deposits
was noticeable. i |

The human bones were uncovered with great care in the presence
of responsible witnesses, then covered again with earth and left in
situ for several months, though shown during this time to a number
of visitors. In August they were exposed for Virchow, v. d. Steinen,
Klaatsch, and other scientific men, and finally, two days afterwards,
in the presence of Prof. Klaatsch, they were gathered from the
deposits.

A somewhat picturesque account of the discovery by Hauser will
be found in the 1909 volume of the Archiv fiir Anthropologie.*. The
skeleton, it appears, lay on its side in a natural position, with the

go Postlioun
= of the sKkeletaw

Fig. 12.— THE UPPER (A) AND LOWER (B) LE MOUSTIER CAVES AND THE POSITION OF THE
SKELETON OF HOMO MOUSTERIENSIS. (After Klaatsch & Hauser.)

right hand under the occiput, the left extended along the body.
About the body and among the bones were found seventy-four worked
flints, ten of which were of a well-defined form. On the skull rested
a charred bone of a Bos primigenius, and in the neighborhood of the
thorax lay a tooth of the same animal. Besides this, 45 other frag-
ments of animal bones were gathered in a close vicinity to the human
remains.

1Klaatsch, A., and O. Hauser. Homo mousteriensis Hauseri. Hin altdiluvialer Skelett-
fund im Departement Dordogne und seine Zugehérigkeit zum Neandertaltypus, (Archiy f,
Anthropologie, N. F., vol, 7, 1909.)
548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The examination of the human bones was begun on the spot by
Prof. Klaatsch, who eventually reached the following conclusions:

The skeleton belongs to an adolescent of perhaps 16 years of age
and probably of the male sex. The height of the boy, as estimated
from the long bones, was probably 1.45 to 1.50 meters (4 feet 9 inches
_ to 4 feet 11 inches).

The skull (pls. 40, 41) notwithstanding the youth of the subject,
shows a number of characteristics which are peculiar to the Neander-
thal group. While of a good size, with only moderately thick bones
of the vault and the latter of a fair height, it shows nevertheless a
rather low and sloping forehead; a well-marked complete supra-
orbital arch or torus, which later in life would doubtless have become
much more prominent; relatively large dental arches, with large and
in a number of particulars primitive teeth; a massive lower jaw with
complete absence of the chin eminence; and other interesting features. _
The glenoid fosse, especially that on the right, show an inclination
upward and outward, as in the skulls of Krapina and as in the
skulls of children in modern man. And there are a number of other
characteristics on the Moustier skull and skeleton which connect the
latter morphologically quite closely with the man of Krapina.

The long and other bones, so far as preserved, possess also nu-
merous primitive characteristics. Especially noticeable among these
are the relatively large extremities, particularly the head of the
femur; a strong development of the external condyle of the thigh
bones; the peculiar curvature of the same; the very marked curvature
of the radius, etc. Klaatsch reached the deduction that the skeleton
belongs undoubtedly to the Homo neanderthalensis variety of the
early European.

OTHER SKELETAL REMAINS OF ANCIENT MAN IN EUROPE.

In addition to the more important skeletal remains of early man
dealt with in the preceding pages, there exist a considerable number
of specimens which, because of their isolated or defective nature, are
of less value to science, or which have not as yet been properly
studied and determined, or which, finally, retain some elements of
uncertainty as to their true position in human chronology. And be-
sides these there is a large additional series of skeletal remains, in-
cluding the latest paleolithic and the neolithic remains, which, while
still ancient, are nevertheless relatively near to man of the present
date.

Among the earlier isolated or defective specimens may be men-
tioned first of all the two teeth of Taubach. One of these, a molar
of the first dentition, was found in the old Quaternary deposits at
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN—HRDLICKA. 549

Taubach near Weimar, Germany, in 1892, by A. Weiss. The crown
of this tooth shows considerable wear and this, with other character-
istics of the specimen, created at first an impression that the tooth
was perhaps not human. Later, however, the tooth was accepted
as proceeding from a human child. Meanwhile one of the laborers
at Taubach discovered in equally old deposits a first permanent left
lower molar about the human nature of which there can be no
question, and this tooth also shows various primitive features. Both
these finds have been reported upon and the specimens described by
Nehring.t. The permanent molar is preserved in the museum in Jena.

Other specimens belonging to this category are the more or less
defective lower jaws of La Naulette, Malarnaud, and Sipka. The La
Naulette jaw was found in 1866 by Dupont in a cave at La Naulette,
Belgium, together with an ulna and a few other fragments of human
bones. The find was reported and thebones described by Dupont in the
Bulletin de Académie Royale Belge, second series, volume 12, 1866,
and by Topinard in the Révue d’Anthropologie of the same year.
The original specimen is preserved in the Musée Royal d’Histoire
Naturelle, Brussels. It is evidently a portion of the lower jaw of a
subadult female. It lacks all chin prominence and shows primitive
features of the alveoli and hence teeth, such as a broad root of the
canine with the central groove on each side, and the very perceptibly
increasing size of the sockets of the molars from before backwards.

The lower jaw of Malarnaud was discovered in 1889 in a small
side chamber of the cave of Malarnaud, near the village of Mont-
seron, Arize, France. It lay 2 meters (about 7 feet) deep beneath a
layer of stalagmite, in a mass consisting of a great quantity of bones
of Quaternary animals and reddish clay. The bone is that of an
adolescent, the third molars being still in their sockets. The teeth
are missing, with the exception of the first right molar. The jaw is
not of great size and is rather low but stout. As the La Naulette
specimen, it lacks the chin prominence such as characterizes the lower
jaw of modern man.”

The Sipka specimen is a fragment of the lower jaw of a child,
probably between the eighth and tenth year of age. It was found in
1880 in the Sipka cave, near Stramberk, Moravia, by Dr. Karel J.
Maska, the deserving Moravian explorer. It shows six teeth—
three incisors, the right canine, and the two right premolars, the

1Nehring, A. Uber einen fossilen Menschenzahn aus dem Diluvium von Taubach bei
Weimar. (Verh. Berl. G. Anthr., etc., Zeit. Ethn., 1895, pp. 388-340, 425-433.) Same
author, Uber einen Menschlichen Molar aus dem Diluvium von Taubach bei Weimar.
(Ibid., pp. 573-577.) See also Adloff, Das Gebiss des Menschen und der Anthropomor-
phen., Berlin, 1908; Schmidt, R. R., Die diluviale Vorzeit Deutschlands, Stuttgart, 1912;
and Festschrift Anthropologische Versammlung Weimar, 1912.

2For original descriptions of the find, see Filhol, H.—Bull. de la Soc. Philomath. de
Paris, 1889, and Congrés Anthrop. Préhist., 1889, p. 417.
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

three last named not yet erupted. The bone is very stout and shows
other primitive features, but the chin was already slightly developed.
The original of the Sipka jaw is still in the care of Prof. Ma&ka at
Telé, Moravia, where it was seen by the writer.

Among the specimens which while indubitably ancient have not
as yet been completely or finally described, should be mentioned, in
the first place the parts of the several skeletons discovered between
1909 and 1912 by Capitan and Peyrony, in the late Mousterian
archeological deposits of La Ferrassie, and the child’s skull found by
the same explorers in 1909 in the cave of Pech de |’Aze, near Sarlat
(Dordogne), France. The writer has seen these specimens, which
are preserved and are being restored in the Museum d’Histoire Na-
turelle, Paris; they are in the care of Prof. Boule, who will eventu-
ally describe them. Certain observations on some parts of these
skeletons have already. been included in Prof. Boule’s reports on the
Chapelle-aux-Saints’ skeleton. He holds that the remains belong to
the Homo Neanderthalensis.’

Among the ancient, but less definitely determined skeletal remains,
and among those belonging to the younger paleolithic (Late Quat-
ernary) period, there may be mentioned especially the Ochoz,*
Brux (Most), Brno (Briinn) No. 1,° Canstadt,t Combe-Capelle,®
Eguisheim,’ Galley Hill,* and possibly the Ipswich,® skulls and
skeletons. For the often not fully satisfactory details concerning
these specimens the reader must be referred to the original publi-
cations.

Of especial importance, however, is the magnificent collection of
ancient skeletal remains discovered at Piedmost, Moravia, by Prof.
K. J. MaSka. This splendid material, which consists of 14 human

1HWor detailed description of the Sipka and the jaw, with the earlier literature of
the find, see MaSka, Karel, J.—Der diluviale Mensch in Mihren, 8°. Neutitschein, 1886.

2¥For first reports concerning these finds, see Boule, M.—Nouvelles entrées dans les
collections de Paléontologie du Muséum. (L’Anthropologie, vol. 22, 1911, pp. 112-113.)
Capitan, L., and Peyrony—Station préhistorique de la Ferrassie. (Revue anthropologique,
vol. 22, 1912, pp. 29-99.) Capitan, L. & Peyrony. ‘Trois nouveaux squelettes humains
fossiles. (Revue anthropologique, Noy., 1912, pp. 489-440); and Obermaier, H.—Der
Mensch der Vorzeit, vol. 1, 1912, pp. 144-145, 339, 436.

2Rzehak, A. Verhandlungen des naturforschenden Vereins, Briinn, vol. 44, 1905; and
Zeitschrift des Miihrischen Landesmuseums, vol. 9, Briinn, 1909, pp. 277-313.

4Schwalbe, G. Studien zur Vorgeschichte des Menschen. Zeitschrift fiir Morphologie
und Anthropologie, Sonderheft, 1906, with further biography,

® Makowsky, A. Der Mensch der Diluvialzeit Mihrens. Briinn, 1899; Obermaier, H.—
Der Mensch der Vorzeit, 1912, pp. 298-352.

6“ Homo Aurignacensis Hauseri”; Klaatsch, H., and O. Hauser.—Prihist. Zeitschr.,
1910; and Klaatsch, H.—Die Aurignacrasse und ihre Stellung im Stammbaum der
Menschheit, (Zeitschr. Ethnol., 1910.)

7Broca, P. Fragments de crine humaine d’Eguisheim. (Bull. Soc. D’Anthrop, Paris,
2d ser., Paris. 1867, pp. 129-131): Schwalbe, G.—Der Schidel von Egisheim Beitrige
zur Anthropologie Elsass Lothringes Heft 3, Strassburg, 1902.

8 Newton, BE. T. Quarterly Journal of the Geelogical Society, August, 1895; also
Munro, R.—Paleolithic man, etc., Addenburg, 1912, pp. 109-115; Keith, A.—Ancient

types of man, 1911; also Duckworth, W. J. H.—Prehistoric man, Cambridge, 1912. —
* Being determined and described by Prof. Arthur Keith.
ANCIENT REMAINS OF MAN——HRDLIGKA. 55)

skeletons, some of them almost complete, with additional skeletal parts
from six other bodies, is now being studied by Prof. J. Matiegka,
the director of the Anthropologicky Ustav, of Prague. The writer
has seen this collection on two occasions and he regards it as by far
the most important assemblage of material from the transitional
period between earlier and the latest paleolithic forms. It repre-
sents in a measure the much searched-for bridge between the Nean-
derthal and recent man. Archeologically, these valuable skeletons
belong to the earlier Solutrean or the Aurignacean.

Besides the above described or enumerated specimens, there are
many others scattered over the museums of Europe, for which great
or less antiquity has been at some time, or is still being claimed. In
many of these instances the student finds that the evidence adduced
and the testimony of the skeletal parts themselves speak rather
against any great age, or leave the subject in serious doubt. It would
seem best for the progress of science to eliminate all such specimens,
with perhaps some of those mentioned above, from consideration,
unless or until new and ample evidence be found to convince us that
they really deserve place in the range of the precious authentic docu-
ments that represent the earlier phases of man’s natural history.

The gradually accumulating finds which throw light on the physi-
cal past of man, have naturally stimulated further exploration in
the same lines; and the various failures and uncertainties connected
with some of the finds in the past have impressed all investigators
in the field with the necessity of the most careful and properly con-
trolled procedure. Besides men of science, the educated public, en-
gineers controlling public works, and even many among the work-
men in Europe have been impressed by these remarkable discoveries,
and in hundreds of instances are doubtless watching for new treas-
ures. Under these conditions we are justified in hoping that from
time to time we shall receive additions to the precious material
already in our hands; that these additions will fill the existing vacua,
and gradually extend farther back to the more strictly intermediary
forms between man and his ancestral stock, and perhaps eventually
even to the source of these link-forms themselves, to the peculiar
morphologically unstable family of the anthropogenous primates.

While the anthropologist is thus painfully and slowly reconstruct-
ing the past physical history of man, he is also with every new fact
adding another imperishable block to the foundation upon which will
stand not only the knowledge of the future in regard to man himself,
but also the laws of his further physical development, and radically
even those of his beliefs and his moral behavior. This is a part of
the service of anthropology to humanity.
552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ADDITIONAL BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Among the more recent anthropological literature there are a num-
ber of monographs that deal more or less comprehensively with the
subject of ancient man. These publications, which contain numer-
ous further references, are as follows:

Anvéin, D.—ProizchoZdeni Geloyvéka i ievo iskopaiemi predki. Itogi Nauki,
Moskva, 1912, pp. 691-784.

Bazor, J.—Paleontologie Glovéka. Véstnik Klubu Pifrodovéd., XIV., Pros-
téjov, 1911, pp. 1-40.

Backman, G—Om Miinniskans utveckling efter mi&nniskoblifvander. Ymer,
Tidskrift Utgifven af Svenska Sallskapet ftir Antropologi och Geografi, Arg.
1909, H. 2 Och 3. Also, Miinniskans Forhistoria, 8°, Stockholm, 1911.

Branca, W.—Der Stand underer Kenntnisse vom fossilen Menschen. 8°, Leip-
zig, 1910.

DuckwortTH, W. L. H.—Prehistoric Man. 12°, Cambridge, 1912.

Fiscuer, E.—Fossile Hominiden. Handwérterbuch der Naturwissenschaften,

IV, 1913.
GeErKIz, J.—The Antiquity of Man in Europe. 8°, London, 1913.

Keirn, A.—Ancient types of Man. 12°, London, 1911.

MacCurpy, G. G.—Recent discoveries bearing on the antiquity of Man in
Europe. Smithsonian Report for 1909, pp. 531-583.

MacCurpy, G. G.—The Man of Piltdown. Science. 1914, pp. 158-160.

Munro, R.—Paleolithic Man and terramara settlements in Europe. 8°, Edin-
burgh, 1912.

OBERMAIER, H.—Der Mensch der Vorzeit; gr. 8°, Berlin, 1912, do., Quaternary
Human Remains in Central Europe; Smithsonian Report for 1906, pp. 373—
397.

SmirH, G. Exvior.—The Evolution of Man. Smithsonian Report for 1912, pp.
~Doe—Ot 2.
.

THE REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND.
By Prof. H. N. Dickson, M. A., D. Se.

Since the last meeting of this section the tragic fate of Capt.
Scott’s party, after its successful journey to the South Pole, has
become known; and our hopes of welcoming a great leader, after
great achievement, have been disappointed. There is no need to
repeat here the narrative of events or to dwell upon the lessons
afforded by the skill and resource and heroic persistence which en-
dured to the end. All these have been, or will be, placed upon per-
manent record. But it is right that we should add our word of
appreciation and proffer our sympathy to those who have suffered
loss. It is for us also to take note that this last of the great Antarec-
tic expeditions has not merely reached the pole, as another has done,
but has added, to an extent that few successful exploratory under-
takings have ever been able to do, to the sum of scientific geographi-
cal knowledge. As the materials secured are worked out it will. I
believe, become more and more apparent that few of the physical and
biological sciences have not received contributions, and important
contributions, of new facts, and also that problems concerning the
distribution of the different groups of phenomena and their action
and reaction upon one another—the problems which are specially
within the domain of the geographer—have not merely been ex-
tended in their scope but have been helped toward their solution.

The reaching of the two poles of the earth brings to a close a long
and brilliant chapter in the story of geographical exploration. There
is still before us a vista of arduous research in geography, bewilder-
ing almost in its extent, in such a degree, indeed, that “ the scope of
geography ” is in itself a subject of perennial interest. But the days
of great pioneer discoveries in topography have definitely drawn
to their close. We know the size and shape of the earth, at least to
a first approximation, and as the map fills up we know that there can
be no new continents.and no new oceans to discover, although all are
still, in a sense, to conquer. Looking back, we find that the qualities

1 Presidential address to Section E (geography), at the Birmingham meeting of the
British association, September, 1918. Reprinted by permission from Report of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, Birmingham, 1913, pp. 536-546.
London, 1914.

553
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of human enterprise and endurance have shown no change; we need
no list of names to prove that they were alike in the days of the
earliest explorations, of the discovery of the New World, or of the
sea route to India, of the “ Principall Navigations,” or of this final
attainment of the poles. The love of adventure and the gifts of
courage and endurance have remamed the same; the order of discoy-
ery has been determined rather by the play of imagination upon ac-
cumulated knowledge, suggesting new methods and developing ap-
propriate inventions. Men have dared to do risky things with inad-
equate appliances, and in doing so have shown how the appliances
may be improved and how new enterprises may become possible as
well as old ones easier and safer. As we come to the end of these
* oreat explorations,” and are restricted more and more to investiga-
tions of a less striking sort, it is well to remember that in geography,
as in all other sciences, research continues to make as great demands
as ever upon those same qualities and that the same recognition is
due to those who continue in patient labor.

When we look into the future of geographical study it appears that
for some time to come we shall still be largely dependent upon work
similar to that of the pioneer type to which I have referred, the work
of perfecting the geographer’s principal weapon, the map. There
are many parts of the world about which we can say little except
that we know they exist; even the topographical map, or the mate-
rial for making it, is wanting; and of only a few regions are there
really adequate distributional maps of any kind. These matters
have been brought before this section and discussed very fully in
recent years, so I need say no more about them, except perhaps to
express the hope and belief that the production of topographical
maps of difficult regions may soon be greatly facilitated and accel-
erated with the help of the new art of flying.

I wish to-day rather to ask your attention for a short time to a
phase of pioneer exploration which has excited an increasing amount
of interest in recent years. Civilized man is, or ought to be, begin-
ning to realize that in reducing more and more of the available sur-
face of the earth to what he considers a habitable condition he is
making so much progress, and making it so rapidly, that the problem
of finding suitable accommodations for his increasing numbers must
become urgent in a few generations. We are getting into the posi-
tion of the merchant whose trade is constantly expanding and who
foresees that his premises will shortly be too small for him. In our
case removal to more commodious premises elsewhere seems impos--
sible—we are not likely to find a means of migrating to another
planet—so we are driven to consider means of rebuilding on the old
site and so making the best of what we have that our business may
not suffer.
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 33d

In the type of civilization with which we are most familiar there
are two fundamental elements—supplies of food energy and supplies
of mechanical energy. Since at present, partly because of geo-
graphical conditions, these do not necessarily (or even in general)
occur together, there is a third essential factor, the line of transport.
It may be of interest to glance, in the cursory manner which is pos-
sible upon such occasions, at some geographical points concerning
each of these factors and to hazard some speculations as to the prob-
able course of events in the future.

Tn his presidential address to the British Association at its meeting
at Bristol in 1898, Sir William Crookes gave some valuable estimates
of the world’s supply of wheat, which, as he pointed out, is “ the most
sustaining food grain of the great Caucasian race.” Founding upon
these estimates, he made a forecast of the relations between the
probable rates of increase of supply and demand, and concluded that
“ Should all the wheat-growing countries add to their [producing]
area to the utmost capacity, on the most careful calculation the yield
would give us only an addition of some 100,000,000 acres, supplying,
at the average world yield of 12.7 bushels to the acre, 1,270,000,000
bushels, just enough to supply the increase of population among
bread eaters till the year 1931.” The president then added, “ Thirty
years is but a day in the life of a nation. Those present who may
attend the meeting of the British Association 30 years hence will
judge how far my forecasts are justified.”

Half the allotted span has now elapsed, and it may be useful to
inquire how things are going. Fortunately, this can be easily done,
up to a certain point, at any rate, by reference to a paper published
recently by Dr. J. F. Unstead, in which comparisons are given for
the decades 1881-1890, 1891-1900, and 1901-1910. Dr. Unstead shows
that the total wheat harvest for the world may be estimated at
2,258,000,000 bushels for the first of these periods, 2,575,000,000
for the second, and 3,233,000,000 for the third, increases of 14 per
cent and 25 per cent, respectively. He points out that the increases
were due “mainly to an increased acreage,” the areas being
192,000,000, 211,000,000, and 242,000,000 acres, but also “ to some ex-
tent (about 8 per cent) to an increased average yield per acre, for
while in the first two periods this was 12 bushels, in the third period
it rose to 13 bushels per acre.”

If we take the period 1891-1900, as nearly corresponding to Sir
William Crookes’s initial date, we find that the succeeding period
shows an increase of 658,000,000 bushels, or about half the estimated
increase required by 1931, and that attained chiefly by “ increased
acreage.”

1 Geographical Journal, August and September, 1913.
556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

But signs are not wanting that increase in this way will not go on
indefinitely. We note (also from Dr. Unstead’s paper) that in the
two later periods the percentage of total wheat produced which was
exported from the United States fell from 32 to 19, the yield per acre
showing an increase meanwhile to 14 bushels. In the Russian Empire
the percentage fell from 26 to 23, and only in the youngest of the new
countries—Canada, Australia, and the Argentine—do we find large
proportional increases. Again, it is significant that in the United
Kingdom, which is, and always has been, the most sensitive of all
wheat-producing countries to variations in the floating supply, the
rate of falling off of home production shows marked if irregular
diminution.

Looking at it in another way, we find (still from Dr. Unstead’s
figures) that the total amount sent out by the great exporting coun-
tries averaged in 1881-1890, 295,000,000 bushels; 1891-1900, 402,-
000,000; 1901-1910, 532,000,000. These quantities represent, respec-
tively, 13, 15.6, and 16.1 per cent of the total production, and it
would appear that the percentage available for export from these
regions is, for the time at least, approaching its limit—i. e., that only
about one-sixth of the wheat produced is available from surpluses
in the regions of production for making good deficiencies elsewhere.

There is, on the other hand, abundant evidence that improved agri-
culture is beginning to raise the yield per acre over a large part of
the producing area. Between the periods 1881-1890 and 1901-1910
the average in the United States rose from 12 to 14 bushels; in Russia,
from 8 to 10; in Australia, from 8 to 10. It is likely that in these
last two cases at least a part of the increase is due merely to more
active occupation of fresh lands as well as to the use of more suitable
varieties of seed, and the effect of improvements in methods of culti-
vation alone is more apparent in the older countries. During the
same period the average yield increased in the United Kingdom
from 28 to 32 bushels, in France from 17 to 20, Holland, 27 to 33;
Belgium, 30 to 35; and it is most marked in the German Empire, for _
which the figures are 19 and 29.

In another important paper ' Dr. Unstead has shown that the pro-
duction of wheat in North America may still in all likelihood be very
largely increased by merely increasing the area under cultivation, and
the reasoning by which he justifies this conclusion certainly holds
good over large districts elsewhere. It is of course impossible, in
the present crude state of our knowledge of our own plant, to form
any accurate estimate of the area which may, by the use of suitable
seeds or otherwise, become available for extensive cultivation. But
T think it is clear that the available proportion of the total supply

1 Geographical Journal, April and May, 1912.
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 557

from “ extensive” sources has reached, or almost reached, its maxi-
mum, and that we must depend more and more upon intensive
farming, with its greater demands for labor.

The average total area under wheat is estimated by Dr. Unstead as
192,000,000 acres for 1881-1890, 211,000,000 acres for 1891-1900, and
249,000,000 acres for 1901-1910. Making the guess—for we can make
nothing better—that this area may be increased to 300,000,000 acres,
and that under ordinary agriculture the average yield may eventually
be increased to 20 bushels over the whole, we get an average harvest
of 6,000,000,000 bushels of wheat. ‘The average wheat eater con-
sumes, according to Sir William Crooke’s figures, about 4$ bushels
per annum; but the amount tends to increase. It is as much
(according to Dr. Unstead) as 6 bushels in the United Kingdom and
8 bushels in France. Let us take the British figure, and it appears
that on a liberal estimate the earth may in the end be able to feed
vermanently 1,000,000,000 wheat eaters. If prophecies based on
population statistics are trustworthy, the crisis will be upon us before
the end of this century. After that we must either depend upon some
substitute to reduce the consumption per head of the staple foodstuff,
or we must take to intensive farming of the most strenuous sort,
absorbing enormous quantities of labor and introducing, sooner or
later, serious difficulties connected with plant food. We leave the
possibility of diminishing the rate of increase in the number of
bread eaters out of account.

We gather, then, that the estimates formed in 1898 are in the main
correct, and the wheat problem must become one of urgency at no
distant date, although actual shortage of food is a long way off.
What is of more immediate significance to the geographer is the ele-
ment of change, of return to earlier conditions, which is emerging
even at the present time. If we admit, as I think we must do, that
the days of increase of extensive farming on new land are drawing
to a close, then we admit that the assignment of special areas for the
production of the food supply of other distant areas is also coming to
its end. The opening up of such areas, in which a sparse population
produces food in quantities largely in excess of its own needs, has
been the characteristic of our time, but it must give place to a more
uniform distribution of things, tending always to the condition of a
moderately dense population, more uniformly distributed over large
areas, capable of providing the increased labor necessary for the
higher type of cultivation, and self-supporting in respect of grain
food at least. We observe in passing that the colonial system of our
time only became possible on the large scale with the invention of the
steam locomotive, and that the introduction of railway systems in
the appropriate regions, and the first tapping of nearly all such
regions on the globe, has taken less than a century.
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Concentration in special areas of settlement, formerly chiefly ef-
fected for military reasons, has in modern times been determined
more and more by the distribution of supplies of energy. The posi-
tion of the manufacturing district is primarily determined by the
supply of coal. Other forms of energy are, no doubt, available, but,
as Sir William Ramsay showed in his presidential address at the
Portsmouth meeting in 1911, we must in all probability look to coal
as being the chief permanent source.

In the early days of manufacturing industries the main difficulties
arose from defective land transport. The first growth of the indus-
trial system, therefore, took place where sea transport was relatively
easy; raw material produced in a region near a coast was carried
to a coal field also near a coast, Just as in the times when military
power was chiefly a matter of “natural defenses,” the center of
power and the food-producing colony had to be mutually accessible.
Hence the Atlantic took the place of the Mediterranean, Great
Britain eventually succeeded Rome, and eastern North America
became the counterpart of Northern Africa. It is to this, perhaps
more than to anything else, that we in Britain owe our tremendous
start amongst the industrial nations, and we observe that we used
it to provide less favored nations with the means of improving their
system of land transport, as well as actually to manufacture imported
raw material and redistribute the products.

But there is, of course, this difference between the supply of food-
stuff (or even military power) and mechanical energy, that in the
case of coal at least it is necessary to live entirely upon capital; the
storing up of energy in new coal fields goes on so slowly in compari-
son with our rate of expenditure that it may be altogether neglected.
Now, in this country we began to use coal on a large scale a little
more than a century ago. Our present yearly consumption is of the
order of 300,000,000 tons, and it is computed? that at the present
rate of increase “ the whole of our available supply will be exhausted
in 170 years.” With regard to the rest of the world we can not,
from lack of data, make even the broad assumptions that were pos-
sible in the case of wheat supply, and for that and other reasons it is
therefore impossible even to guess at the time which must elapse
before a universal dearth of coal becomes imminent; it is perhaps
sufficient to observe that to the best of our knowledge and belief one
of the world’s largest groups of coal fields (our own) is not likely
to last three centuries in all.

Here again the present interest lies rather in the phases of change
which are actually with us. During the first stages of the manufac-
turing period energy in any form was exceedingly difficult to trans-

1 General Report of the Royal Commission on Coal Supplies, 1906,
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 559

port, and this led to intense concentration. Coal was taken from the
most accessible coal field and used, as far as possible, on the spot. It
was chiefly converted into mechanical energy by means of the steam
engine, an extremely wasteful apparatus in small units, hence still fur-
ther concentration ; thus the steam engine is responsible in part for the
factory system in its worst aspect. The less accessible coal fields were
neglected. Also, the only other really available source of energy—
water power—remained unused, because the difficulties in the way of
utilizing movements of large quantities of water through small ver-
tical distances (as in tidal movements) are enormous; the only easily
applied source occurs where comparatively small quantities of water
fall through considerable vertical distances, as in the case of water-
falls. But, arising from the geographical conditions, waterfalls
(with rare exceptions, such as Niagara) occur in the “ torrential ”
part of the typical river course, perhaps far from the sea, almost
certainly in a region too broken in surface to allow of easy communi-
cation or even of industrial settlement of any kind.

However accessible a coal field may be to begin with, it sooner or
later becomes inaccessible in another way, as the coal near the surface
is exhausted and the workings get deeper. No doubt the evil day is
postponed for a time by improvements in methods of mining—a sort
of intensive cultivation—but as we can put nothing back the end must
be the same, and successful competition with more remote but more
superficial deposits becomes impossible. And every improvement in
land transport favors the geographically less accessible coal fields.

From this point of view it is impossible to overestimate the impor-
tance of what is to all intents and purposes a new departure of the
same order of magnitude as the discovery of the art of smelting iron
with coal, or the invention of the steam engine, or of the steam loco-
motive. I mean the conversion of energy into electricity, and its
transmission in that form (at small cost and with small loss) through
great distances. First we have the immediately increased availability
of the great sources of cheap power in waterfalls. The energy may
be transmitted through comparatively small distances and converted
into heat in the electric furnace, making it possible to smelt econom-
ically the most refractory ores, as those of aluminium, and converting
such unlikely places as the coast of Norway or the West Highlands of
Scotland into manufacturing districts. Or it may be transmitted
through greater distances to regions producing quantities of raw ma-
terials, distributed there widespread to manufacturing centers, and
reconverted into mechanical energy. The Plain of Lombardy pro-
duces raw material in abundance, but Italy has no coal supply. The
waterfalls of the Alps yield much energy, and this transmitted in the
form of electricity, in some cases for great distances, is converting
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

northern Italy into one of the world’s great industrial regions. Chis-
holm gives an estimate of a possible supply of power amounting to
3,000,000 horsepower, and says that of this about one-tenth was
already being utilized in the year 1900.

But assuming again, with Sir William Ramsay, that coal must con-
tinue to be the chief source of energy, it is clear that the question of
accessibility now wears an entirely different aspect. It is not alto-
gether beyond reason to imagine that the necessity for mining, as
such, might entirely disappear, the coal being burnt in situ and
energy converted directly into electricity. In this way some coal
fields might conceivably be exhausted to their last pound without
serious increase in the cost of getting. But for the present it is
enough to note that, however inaccessible any coal field may be from
supplies of raw material, it is only necessary to establish generating
stations at the pit’s mouth and transport the energy to where it can
be used. One may imagine, for example, vast manufactures carried
on in what are now the immense agricultural regions of China,
worked by power supplied from the great coal deposits of Shansi.

There is, however, another peculiarity of electrical power which
will exercise increasing influence upon the geographical distribution
of industries. The small electric motor is a much more efficient ap-
paratus than the small steam engine. We are, accordingly, already
becoming familiar with the great factory in which, instead of all tools
being huddled together to save loss through shafting and belting,
and all kept running all the time, whether busy or not (because the
main engine must be run), each tool stands by itself and is worked by
its own motor, and that only when it is wanted. Another of the
causes of concentration of manufacturing industry is therefore re-
duced in importance. We may expect to see the effects of this be-
coming more and more marked as time goes on, and other forces
working toward uniform distribution make themselves more felt.

The points to be emphasized so far, then, are, first, that the time
when the available areas whence food supply, as represented by
wheat, is derived are likely to be taxed to their full capacity within a
period of about the same length as that during which the modern
colonial system has been developing in the past; secondly, that cheap
supplies of energy may continue for a longer time, although eventu-
ally they must greatly diminish; and, thirdly, there must begin in the
near future a great equalization in the distribution of population.
This equalization must arise from a number of causes. More intensive
cultivation will increase the amount of labor required in agriculture,
and there will be less difference in the cost of production and yield
due to differences of soil and climate. Manufacturing industries will
be more uniformly distributed, because energy, obtained from a
larger number of sources in the less accessible places, will be distrib-
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 561

uted over an increased number of centers. The distinction between
agricultural and industrial regions will tend to become less and less
clearly marked, and will eventually almost disappear in many parts
of the world.

The effect of this upon the third element is of first-rate importance.
It is clear that as the process of equalization goes on the relative
amount of long-distance transport will diminish, for each district
will tend more and more to produce its own supply of staple food and
carry on its own principal manufactures. This result will naturally
be most marked in what we may call the “ east-and-west ” transport,
for as climatic controls primarily follow the parallels of latitude, the
great quantitative trade, the flow of foodstuffs and manufactured ar-
ticles to and fro between peoples of like habits and modes of life,
runs primarily east and west. Thus the transcontinental functions
of the great North American and Eurasian railways, the east-and-
west systems of the inland waterways of the two continents, and the
connecting links furnished by the great ocean ferries must become
of relatively less importance.

The various stages may be represented, perhaps, in some such man-
ner as this. If / is the cost of producing a thing locally at a place A
by intensive cultivation or what corresponds to it, if Z is the cost of
producing the same thing at a distant place B, and 7’ the cost of
transporting it to A, then at A we may at some point of time have a
-more or less close approximation to

Tapp

We have seen that in this country, for example, 7 has been greater
than /-+-7 for wheat ever since, say, the introduction of railways in
North America, that the excess tends steadily to diminish, and that
however much it may be possible to reduce 7 either by devising
cheaper modes of transport or by shortening the distance through
which wheat is transported, 7+7 must become greater than /, and
it will pay us to grow all or most of our own wheat. Conversely, in
the seventies of last century 7 was greater than #+7' in North
America and Germany for such things as steel rails and rolling stock,
which we in this country were cultivating “extensively ” at the time
on more accessible coal fields, with more skilled labor and better or-
ganization than could be found elsewhere. In many cases the posi-
tions are now, as we know, reversed, but geographically 7 must win
all round in the long run.

In the case of transport between points in different latitudes, the
conditions are, of course, altogether dissimilar, for in this case com-
modities consist of foodstuffs, or raw materials, or manufactured
articles, which may be termed luxuries, in the sense that their use is
scarcely known until cheap transport makes them easily accessible,

44863°—sm 19183——36
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

when they rapidly become “ necessaries of life.” Of these the most
familiar examples are tea, coffee, cocoa, and bananas, india rubber
and manufactured cotton goods. There is here, of course, always the
possibility that wheat as a staple might be replaced by a foodstuff
produced in the tropics, and it would be extremely interesting to study
the geographical consequences of such an event as one-half of the sur-
face of the earth suddenly coming to help in feeding the two quarters
on either side; but for many reasons, which I need not go into here,
such a consummation is exceedingly unlikely. What seems more
probable is that the trade between different latitudes will continue to
be characterized specially by its variety, the variety doubtless increas-
ing, and the quantity increasing in still larger measure. The chief
modification in the future may perhaps be looked for in the occasional
transference of manufactures of raw materials produced in the tropics
to places within the tropics, especially when the manufactured article
is itself largely consumed near regions of production. The neces-
sary condition here is a region, such as, e. g., the monsoon region, in
which there is sufficient variation in the seasons to make the native
population laborious; for then, and apparently only then, is it pos-
sible to secure sufficient industry and skill by training, and therefore
to be able to yield to the ever-growing pressure in more temperate
latitudes due to increased cost of labor. The best examples of this
to-day are probably the familiar ones of cotton and jute manufac-
ture in India. With certain limitations, manufacturing trade of this
kind is, however, likely to continue between temperate and strictly
tropical regions, where the climate is so uniform throughout the year
that the native has no incentive to work. There the collection of the
raw material is as much as, or even more than can be looked for—as
in the case of mahogany or wild rubber. Where raw material has to
be cultivated—as cotton, cultivated rubber, ete.—the raw material
has to be produced in regions more of the monsoon type, but it will
probably—perhaps as much for economic as geographical reasons—
be manufactured at some center in the temperate zones, and the
finished product transported thence, when necessary, to the point of
consumption in the tropics.

We are here, however, specially liable to grave disturbances of dis-
tribution arising from invention of new machinery or new chemical
methods; one need only mention the production of sugar or indigo.
Another aspect of this which is not without importance may perhaps
be referred to here, although it means the transference of certain in-
dustries to more accessible regions merely, rather than a definite
change of such an element as latitude. I have in mind the sudden con-
version of an industry in which much labor is expended on a small
amount of raw material into one where much raw material is con-
sumed, and by the application of power-driven machinery the labor
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 563

required is greatly diminished. One remembers when a 50-shilling
Swiss watch, although then still by tradition regarded as sufficiently
valuable to deserve inclosure in a case constructed of a precious metal,
was considered a marvel of cheapness. American machine-made
watches, produced by the ton, are now encased in the baser metals
and sold at some 5 shillings each, and the watch-making industry
has ceased to be specially suited to mountainous districts,

In considering the differences which seem likely to arise in what
we may call the regional pressures of one kind and another, pressures
which are relieved or adjusted by and along certain lines of trans-
port, I have made a primary distinction between “ east-and-west ”
and “ north-and-south ” types, because both in matters of food supply
and in the modes of life which control the nature of the demand for
manufactured articles climate is eventually the dominant factor; and,
as I have said, climate varies primarily with latitude. This is true
specially of atmospheric temperature; but temperature varies also
with altitude, or height above the level of the sea. To a less extent
‘rainfall, the other great element of climate, varies with altitude, but
the variation is much more irregular. More important in this case
is the influence of the distribution of land and sea, and more especi-
ally the configuration of the land surface, the tendency here being
sometimes to strengthen the latitude effect. where a continuous ridge
is interposed, as in Asia, practically cutting off “ north-and-south ”
communication altogether along a certain line, emphasizing the par-
allel-strip arrangement running east and west to the north of the
line, and inducing the quite special conditions of the monsoon region
to the south of it. We may contrast this with the effect of a “ north-
and-south” structure, which (in temperate latitudes especially)
tends to swing what we may call the regional lines round till they
cross the parallels of latitude obliquely. This is typically illustrated
in North America, where the angle is locally sometimes nearly a right
angle. It follows, therefore, that the contrast of “ east-and-west ”
and “north-and-south ” lines, which I have here used for purposes
of illustration, is necessarily extremely crude, and one of the most
pressing duties of geographers at the present moment is to elaborate
a more satisfactory method of classification. I am very glad that we
are to have a discussion on “ Natural regions” at one of our sede-
runts. Perhaps I may be permitted to express the hope that we shall
concern ourselves with the types of region we want, their structure
or “ grain,” and their relative positions, rather than with the precise
delimitation of their boundaries, to which I think we have sometimes
been inclined, for educational purposes, to give a little too much at-
tention.

Before leaving this I should like to add, speaking still in terms of
“ east-and-west ” and “ north-and-south,” one word more about the
564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

essential east-and-west structure of the Old World. I have already
referred to the great central axis of Asia. This axis is prolonged
westward through Europe, but it is cut through and broken to such
an extent that we may include the Mediterranean region with the
area lying farther north, to which indeed it geographically belongs,
in any discussion of this sort. But the Mediterranean region is
bounded on the other side by the Sahara, and none of our modern
inventions facilitating transport has made any impression upon the
dry desert ; nor does it seem likely that such a desert will ever become
a less formidable barrier than a great mountain mass or range. We
may conclude, then, that in so far as the Old World is concerned, the
“north-and-south” transport can never be carried on as freely as it
may in the New, but only through certain weak points, or “round the
ends,” i. e., by sea. It may be further pointed out that the land areas
in the southern hemisphere are so narrow that they will scarcely
enter into the “ east-and-west ” category at all—the transcontinental
railway as understood in the northern hemisphere can not exist; it
is scarcely a pioneer system, but rather comes into existence as a later
by-product of local east-and-west lines, as in Africa.

These geographical facts must exercise a profound influence upon
the future of the British Isles. Trade south of the great dividing
line must always be to a large extent of the “ north-and-south ” type,
and the British Isles stand practically at the western end of the great
natural barrier. From their position the British Isles will always
be a center of immense importance in entrepot trade, importing com-
modities from “south” and distributing “east and west,” and simi-
larly in the reverse direction. This movement will be permanent,
and will increase in volume long after the present type of purely
“ east-and-west” trade has become relatively less important than it
is now, and long after the British Isles have ceased to have any of
the special advantages for manufacturing industries which are due
to their own resources either in the way of energy or of raw material.
We can well imagine, however, that this permanent advantage of
position will react favorably, if indirectly, upon certain types of our
manufactures, at least for a very long time to come.

Reverting briefly to the equalization of the distribution of popu-
lation in the wheat-producing areas and the causes which are now at
work in this direction, it is interesting to inquire how geographical
conditions are likely to influence this on the smaller scale. We may
suppose that the production of staple foodstuffs must always be more
uniformly distributed than the manufacture of raw materials, or
the production of the raw materials themselves, for the most im-
portant raw materials of vegetable origin (as cotton, rubber, etc.)
demand special climatic conditions, and, apart from the distribution
of energy, manufacturing industries are strongly influenced by the
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND-—DIOCKSON. 565

distribution of mineral deposits, providing metals for machinery,
and so on. It may, however, be remarked that the useful metals,
such as iron, are widely distributed on or near regions which are not
as a rule unfavorable to agriculture. Nevertheless, the fact remains
that while a more uniform distribution is necessary and inevitable in
the case of agriculture, many of the conditions of industrial and
social life are in favor of concentration; the electrical transmission
of energy removes, in whole or in part, only one or two of the cen-
tripetal forces. The general result might be an approximation to
the conditions occurring in many parts of the monsoon areas—a
number of fairly large towns pretty evenly distributed over a given
agricultural area, and each drawing its main food supplies from the
region surrounding it. The position of such towns would be deter-
mined much more by industrial conditions, and less by military con-
ditions, than in the past (military power being in these days mobile,
and not fixed) ; but the result would on a larger scale be of the same
type as was developed in the central counties of England, which,
as Mackinder has pointed out, are of almost equal size and take the
name of the county town. Concentration within the towns would,
of course, be less severe than in the early days of manufacturing
industry. Each town would require a very elaborate and highly
organized system of local transport, touching all points of its agri-
cultural area, in addition to lines of communication with other towns
and with the great “ north-and-south ” lines of world-wide commerce,
but these outside lines would be relatively of less importance than
they are now. We note that the more perfect the system of local
transport the less the need for points of intermediate exchange.
The village and the local market town will be “sleepy” or decadent
as they are now, but for a different reason; the symptoms are at
present visible mainly because the country round about such local
centers is overwhelmed by the great lines of transport which pass
through them; they will survive for a time through inertia and the
ease of foreign investment of capital. The effect of this influence
is already apparent since the advent of the “commercial motor,”
but up to the present it has been more in the direction of distributing
from the towns than collecting to them, producing a kind of “sub-
urbanization” which throws things still further out of balance.
The importance of the road motor in relation to the future develop-
ment of the food-producing area is incalculable. It has long been
clear that the railway of the type required for the great through
lines of fast transport is ill adapted for the detailed work of a small
district, and the “light” railway solves little and introduces many
complications. ‘The problem of determining the direction and capacity
of a system of roads adequate to any particular region is at this stage
one of extraordinary difficulty; experiments are exceedingly costly,
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

and we have as yet little experience of a satisfactory kind to guide
us. The geographer, if he will, can here be of considerable service
to the engineer.

In the same connection, the development of the agricultural area
supplying an industrial center offers many difficult problems in rela-
tion to what may be called accessory products, more especially those
of a perishable nature, such as meat and milk. In the case of meat
the present position is that much land which may eventually become
‘available for grain crops is used for grazing, or cattle are fed on
some grain, like maize, which is difficult to transport or is not satis-
factory for bread making. The meat is then temporarily deprived
of its perishable property by refrigeration, and does not suffer in
transport. Modern refrigerating machinery is elaborate and com-
plicated, and more suited to use on board ship than on any kind of
land transport; hence, the most convenient regions for producing
meat for export are those near the seacoast, such as occur in the
Argentine or the Canterbury plains of New Zealand. ‘The case is
similar to that of the accessible coal field. Possibly the preserving
processes may be simplified and cheapened, making overland trans-
port easier, but the fact that it usually takes a good deal of land to
produce a comparatively smal] quantity of meat will make the difh-
culty greater as land becomes more valuable. Cow’s milk, which in
modern times has become a “necessary of life” in most parts of the
civilized world, is in much the same category as meat, except that
difficulties of preservation, and therefore of transport, are even
greater. That the problem has not become acute is largely due to
the growth of the long-transport system available for wheat, which
has enabled land round the great centers of population to be devoted
to dairy produce. If we are right in supposing that this state of
things can not be permanent the difficulty of milk supply must
increase, although relieved somewhat by the less intense concentra-
tion in the towns; unless, as seems not unlikely, a wholly successful
method of permanent preservation is devised.

In determining the positions of the main centers, or, rather, in
subdividing the larger areas for the distribution of towns with their
supporting and dependent districts, water supply must be one of the
chief factors in the future, as it has been in the past; and in the
case of industrial centers the quality as well as the quantity of water
has to be considered. A fundamental division here would probably
be into districts having a natural local supply, probably of hard
water, and districts in which the supply must be obtained from a
distance. In the latter case engineering works of great magnitude
must often be involved, and the question of total resources available
in one district for the supply of another must be much more fully
investigated than it has been. In many cases, as in this country,
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DICKSON. 567

the protection of such resources pending investigation is already
much needed. It is worth noting that the question may often be
closely related to the development and transmission of electrical
energy from waterfalls, and the two problems might in such cases
be dealt with together. Much may be learned about the relation of
water supply to distribution of population from a study of history,
and a more active prosecution of combined historical and geograph-
ical research would, I believe, furnish useful material in this connec-
tion, besides throwing interesting light on many historical questions.

Continued exchange of the “north-and-south” type, and at least
a part of that described as “ east-and-west,” gives permanence to a
certain number of points where, so far as can be seen, there must
always be a change in the mode of transport. It is not likely that
we shall have heavy freight-carrying monsters in the air for a long
time to come, and until we have the aerial “tramp”, transport must
be effected on the surfaces of land and sea. However much we may
improve and cheapen land transport, it can not in the nature of
things become as cheap as transport by sea. For on land the essen-
tial idea is always that of a prepared road of some kind, and, as
Chisholm has pointed out, no road can carry more than a certain
amount; traffic beyond a certain quantity constantly requires the
construction of new roads. It follows, then, that no device is likely
to provide transport indifferently over land and sea, and the sea-
port has in consequence inherent elements of permanence. Im-
proved and cheapened land transport increases the economy arising
from the employment of large ships rather than small ones, for not
only does transport inland become relatively more important, but
distribution along a coast from one large seaport becomes as easy as
from a number of small coastal towns. Hence the conditions are in
favor of the growth of a comparatively small number of immense
seaport cities hke London and New York, in which there must be
great concentration not merely of work directly connected with
shipping, but of commercial and financial interests of all sorts. The
seaport is, in fact, the type of great city which seems likely to in-
crease continually in size, and provision for its needs can not in
general be made from the region immediately surrounding it, as in
the case of towns of other kinds. In special cases there is also, no
doubt, permanent need of large inland centers of the type of the
“railway creation,” but under severe geographic control these must
depend very much on the nature and efficiency of the systems of land
transport. It is not too much to say (for we possess some evidence
of it already) that the number of distinct geographical causes which
give rise to the establishment and maintenance of individual great
cities is steadily diminishing, but that the large seaport is a per-
manent and increasing necessity. It follows that aggregations of
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the type of London and Liverpool, Glasgow and Belfast, will always
be amongst the chief things to be reckoned with in these islands,
irrespective of local coal supply or accessory manufacturing indus-
tries, which may decay through exhaustion.

I have attempted in what precedes to draw attention once more to
certain matters for which it seems strangely difficult to get a hearing.
What it amounts to is this, that as far as our information goes the
development of the steamship and the railway, and the universal in-
troduction of machinery which has arisen from it, have so increased
the demand made by man upon the earth’s resources that in less than
a century they will have become fully taxed. When colonization
and settlement in a new country proceeded slowly and laboriously,
extending centrifugally from one or two favorable spots on the coast,
it took a matter of four centuries to open up a region the size of
England. Now we do as much for a continent like North America in
about as many decades. In the first case it was not worth troubling
about the exhaustion of resources, for they were scarcely more than
touched, and even if they were exhausted there were other whole
continents to conquer. But now, so far as our information goes, we
are already making serious inroads upon the resources of the whole
earth. One has no desire to sound an unduly alarmist note, or to sug-
gest that we are in imminent danger of starvation, but surely it
would be well, even on the suspicion, to see if our information is
adequate and reliable and if our conclusions are correct; and not
merely to drift in a manner which was justifiable enough in Saxon
times, but which, at the rate things are going now, may land us
unexpectedly in difficulties of appalling magnitude.

What is wanted is that we should seriously address ourselves to a
stock taking of our resources. A beginning has been made with a
great map on the scale of one to a million, but that is not sufficient;
we should vigorously proceed with the collection and discussion of
geographical data of all kinds, so that the major natural distribu-
tions shall be adequately known, and not merely those parts which
commend themselves, for one reason or another, to special national
or private enterprises. The method of Government survey em-
ployed in most civilized countries for the construction of maps, the
examination of geological structure, or the observation of weather
and climate is satisfactory as far as it goes, but it should go further
and be made to include such things as vegetation, water supply,
supplies of energy of all kinds, and, what is quite as important, the
bearings of one element upon others under different conditions.
Much, if not most, of the work of collecting data would naturally
be done as it is now by experts in the special branches of knowledge,
but it is essential that there should be a definite plan of a geographical
survey as a whole, in order that the regional or distributional aspect
REDISTRIBUTION OF MANKIND—DIOKSON. 569

should never be lost sight of. I may venture to suggest that a com-
mittee formed jointly by the great national geographical societies,
or by the International Geographical Congress, might be intrusted
with the work of formulating some such uniform plan and suggest-
ing practicable methods of carrying it out. It should not be impossi-
ble to secure international cooperation, for there is no need to investi-
gate too closely the secrets of anyone’s particular private vineyard—
it is merely a question of doing thoroughly and systematically what
is already done in some regions, sometimes thoroughly, but not sys-
tematically. We should thus arrive eventually at uniform methods
of stock taking, and the actual operations could be carried on as
opportunity offered and indifference or opposition was overcome by
the increasing need for information. Eventually we shall find that
“country planning” will become as important as town planning, but
it will be a more complex business, and it will not be possible to get
the facts together in a hurry. And in the meanwhile increased geo-
graphical knowledge will yield scientific results of much significance
about such matters as distribution of populations and industries, and
the degree of adjustment to new conditions which occurs or is pos-
sible in different regions and amongst different peoples. Primary
surveys on the large scale are specially important in new regions,
but the best methods of developing such areas and of adjusting dis-
tributions in old areas to new economic conditions are to be dis-
covered by extending the detailed surveys of small districts. An
example of how this may be done has been given by Dr. Mill in his
Fragment of the Geography of Sussex. Dr. Mill’s methods have been
successfully applied by individual investigators to other districts,
but a definitely organized system, marked out on a carefully ma-
tured uniform plan, is necessary if the results are to be fully com-
parable. The schools of geography in this country have already
done a good deal of local geography of this type, and could give
much valuable assistance if the work were organized beforehand on
an adequate scale.

; But in whatever way and on. whatever scale the work is done, it
must be clearly understood that no partial study from the physical,
or biological, or historical, or economic point of view will ever suffice.
The urgent matters are questions of distribution upon the surface of
the earth, and their elucidation is not the special business of the
physicist, or the biologist, or the historian, or the economist, but of
the geographer.
ra gi | 0g a

Beton aro histh ths. nearer | rai = St
“2h sie. Bees: oe hia y faseiog, oaks Bak |
Ae gion a7 anianitgar to. SQA ROE
had. baa Hote, denna pater ...9 RETOLD
ad Sa Teassicnl sf TOE ey} : i aor acgngd | ee i ae
? paige? eieag ad. torr hing tii haw, eousiondaele hi
sy wipe, epee Ipigereianeptubaer pete

edt HUG oh al,
[ae eboatiom. th
Nepean Xap Sie vf
fu ate pais duo: Ce

stedac. en. towed ii esse
hast ‘ai Jie RRS: Bivgee bias rc jones ake
if. .9% Oe, fe i Her de bas tat 08

ee

ROR SE CIE ae eCeE 7 ae oe vei oe : ea ae
jdinvivne Se. tee oS eee eee a eG oe
Be RA De ee Wate i Bite ete C. 7 gad
ACL ae tere hen vemeeeaee Anat! ts ee ie ja Beret *

Bok, 4 See ks

Srey Cae es Es aye ney * fe Se ee c.
THE EARLIEST FORMS OF HUMAN HABITATION AND
THEIR RELATION TO THE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT
OF CIVILIZATION.

By Prof. Dr. M. HoERNEs.

According to a conception at present in vogue the main currents
of human civilization have developed along certain simple lines, of
which the starting point, the several halts, and the end can be readily
learned. It is assumed that the different groups of mankind must
present the same forms, in similar order, according to some sort of
arbitrary law. Thus there have been mapped out for the history of
economics, of implements, costumes, habitation, morals, law, and
religion, certain strict and definite plans, which have been drawn more
from a priori reasoning and a limited experience than from a wide
knowledge of facts. These classifications, which may be readily
replaced by other similar ones, had nevertheless the advantage, like
all classifications, which are equally inexact, that they afforded for
the progress of investigation a better basis than when the material
is in disorder and fancy turned free. These classifications, however,
were not altogether inexact, but were merely inadequate for general
application so as to be extended to all parts of the globe and to all
groups of mankind. When properly limited and used judiciously,
they present every evidence of being parts or fragments of the truth
to which, in order to make them complete. other fragments should be
constantly added until the highest possible degree of knowledge is
attained.

As regards the history of human habitation, it is believed that at
a certain period there was an age of caverns when man dwelt exclu-
sively in the natural excavations of rocky regions. Later, when the
earliest forms of buildings appeared, the circular structure was
everywhere employed before those of quadrangular forms, wooden
buildings before those of stone, etc. At the very dawn of evolution,
man, it is thought, must have dwelt in hollow trunks of trees or in
the tops of high trees. But we can make no positive assertions con-
cerning that most remote stage of evolution. In all lines of evolution
the beginning belongs to the domain of imagination; its suggestions

1 Translated by permission from “ Scientia, International Review of Scientific Synthesis,”
published by Messrs. Williams & Norgate, London, No. 3, 1911, pp. 94-104.

. 571
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

may be guided and defended, but as theories they can not be estab-
lished with evidence by exact science.

For the habit of dwelling in the tops of trees reference is made to
the life of anthropoid apes. But the animal or semianimal ancestor
of man did not descend from the tree in order to become a man.
He dwelt on terra firma before his transformation into man, else
he could not present such physical divergencies from the present
anthropoid apes. It is true that we incidentally find certain savage
peoples who still live in trees, but this kind of dwelling accords well
with the building of huts. It constitutes chiefly a temporary safe
asylum in times of danger, not a fixed residence. It is a secondary
form of adaptation, the same as the pile dwellings. Man by origin
is neither a climber, like the anthropoids, nor an aquatic animal,
like the beaver, but he has learned to change the location of his home
to increase his safety, either raising it upon high trees or trans-
ferring it from terra firma to locations over the water according as
circumstances or necessity may call for one or the other of these
forms. But in either case he already had the hut complete and
sought for it a new foundation so that he might, at will, connect
himself with or separate himself from terra firma, in one case by
means of a ladder, in the other by that of a bridge. In this case,
therefore, there appears no primitive form of human habitation.
And this applies with still greater reason to the dwelling in hollow
trees, for from what we know about savage peoples of to-day trees
never constitute permanent homes, but at the most are but a passing
shelter.

An analogous, if not identical, fact is pointed out in favor of
troglodytism (cave dwelling). This might have been a primitive
form of habitation, for nature has here united all the elements of a
substantial and clean residence. There is a floor, roof, walls, often
also interior divisions, covered vestibules, sunny terraces, sometimes
also sheltered places hardly accessible in the rocky walls, passages
running deep into the mountain and affording hiding places and
refuges. Asa matter of fact, in rocky regions rich in caverns these
advantages early became known and were abundantly utilized during
long ages. But these do not exist everywhere, and for this reason
alone we can not speak of an epoch when cave dwellings were general.
Moreover, the earliest human hordes were certainly too unsteady and
wandering to remain attached through the entire year to this natural
immovable kind of shelters. Their habit of hunting big game would
not permit them such a high degree of permanent settlement. Even
to-day in studying certain very primitive hunting peoples, such as
the Veddas of Ceylon, we find that they seek out the rocky parts of
their hunting territory only during the rainy season when they may
camp in the excavations and under shelter of the rocks.
EARLIEST HUMAN HABITATIONS—-HOERNES. 573

The choice of a dwelling place and of a form of building, in order
to render it habitable, depends upon three factors of adaptation: (1)
The nature of the ground, (2) the manner of living, and (3) the gen-
eral state of civilization. These are the conditions to which every-
where the location and the form of the habitation are submitted.
This accounts for all geographical and historical divergencies. In
the earliest times civilization was uncertain and of no importance,
while the nature of the ground and the kind of life played a very
great part. The first of those factors determines chiefly the form
and the second fixes the location of the dwelling. Fishermen and
shell-fish eaters, for instance, live during the entire year along the
seashore, but the ichthyophags of Caramania (Asia Minor) and Ged-
rosia (Beluchistan), as also the inhabitants of the Red Rocks of
Menton (France) during the glacial period, were troglodytes (cave
dwellers), while the Fuegians are obliged to build huts, just as cer-
tain of the inhabitants of the seacoast of Denmark had done whose
kitchen-middens have survived. In regions of forests and steppes
troglodytism is limited by the mobility of game.

Thus, eases, which might be considered as the only form of resi-
dence of the peoples of western Europe at the end of the paleolithic
period, have furnished interesting information on the construction
of huts through the drawings recently discovered in many places.
I refer to the curious sketches which were first found graven on the
walls of the cavern of Combarelles, then, painted red, in the interior
of the cavern of Font-de-Gaume in the Dordogne (France), and
brought to light by Messieurs Capitan and Breuil. Soon after that
similar drawings were found in other caves (graven, in Bernifal;
painted red, in Marsoulas). These drawings are figures of dwellings,
sometimes showing a substructure with a central pole, and occasion-
ally also with props and girders on either side. The explorers of
the French caverns express no doubt but that these figures are crude
representations of primitive huts (“rudimentary images of huts,”
Breuil), which obviously could not have been built inside the cav-
erns and probably also not in their vicinity. In the cave of Mar-
soulas, above the drawing of such a hut, there is line of dots, in which
Breuil sees the representation of foliage to figure the roof. Less sig-
nificant are the “ marks in form of huts” painted in the cavern of
La Mouthe (Dordogne), Altamira and Castillo (North Spain) ; the
drawing of these two caverns might be considered as images of
interlaced bucklers. Equally uncertain are the “red dwelling fig-
ures” of the cavern of Niaux (Briége). Somewhat doubtful is the
meaning of the carvings on bone and reindeer antlers found in the
region of the caverns. Only the drawings mentioned in the first
place can be admitted as valid proofs in favor of the theory of the
building of huts at the end of the paleolithic period. The figures
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of Combarelles often appear in parallel pairs, having between them
the figure of an animal. In the cavern of Font-de-Gaume there are
some of these drawings on the body of a bison, in the cavern of
Bernifal there are two others on the body of a mammoth, while
elsewhere the bodies of animals have represented upon them pro-
jectile arms and human hands, or their outlines.*

Thus, at the end of the paleolithic period the hunters of the clos-
ing glacial age dwelt not only in caves but also in huts; in the latter
probably during their long tours over the hunting territory, which
took them far away from the region of the caverns and obliged them
to construct artificial shelters. These were, as far as we can judge,
in keeping with the state of civilization which was comparatively not
at all a low one, as the excavations in the caverns frequently show.
It is not known whether these huts rested upon an artificial base or
directly upon the surface of the ground, for the drawings show
only the exterior view. Both alternatives are possible, but the sec-
ond is the more probable. It would be in keeping with the state of
civilization, as also with the climatic conditions, that these primitive
structures should be on a higher plane than the humblest beginnings
of architecture, represented among the low hunting races of to-day,
for instance, the screen dwellings (paravent) of the Negritos in the
Philippine Islands or the summer shelters (¢oits d’été) of the
Veddas of Ceylon. But they have in common with these rudi-
mentary means of protection against wind and weather the quad-
rangular form; for the screens and summer shelters of these Asiatic
races consist of a quadrangular framework into which are inter-
twined brushwood and foliage. These frames included oblique
stakes to sustain the roof. The huts of the paleolithic hunters of
western Europe had two parallel sides at the roof like those of the
Seminoles of the south of North America. The sustaining poles
were in the center.

The nature of the floor was an important matter. On the draw-
ings it is usually figured by squared tree trunks, and according to
Matthews such is also the construction of the floor in the huts of the
Seminoles,? while in the screens of the Negritos and shelters of the
Veddas it is made of foliage and straw. The huts were the habita-
tions of the men; the summer shelters, of the hunters; while the caves
were the winter residences where the women, children, and old people

1The cave-dwelling figures referred to are nearly all reproduced in the work of
Cartailhac and Breuil, La Caverne d’Altamira, Monaco, 1906; Combarelles and Font de
Gaume, p. 31, fig. 17; Bernifal, p. 24, fig. 11; Marsoulas, p. 30, fig. 16; Altamira, p. 63,
figs. 46 and 47. Niaux: L’Anthropologie, vol. 19, 1908, p. 38, fig. 21. Castillo Alcalde del
Rio, Pinturas y Grabadas, Table 9. Animals between the huts at Combarelles: Revue
ad’ficole d’Anthropologie, vol. 12, 1902, p. 45, fig. 12. Huts on the body of an animal at
Font de Gaume, ibid., Table 1, fig. 2. The same at Bernifal, ibid., vol. 13, 1903, p. 203.

2 See also Cartailhac and Breuil, loc. cit., p. 163 (fig. 2 represents a Seminole hut with-
out floor, after MacCauley).
EARLIEST HUMAN HABITATIONS——HOERNES., 575

lived the whole year round, probably also the shamans and their
pupils, where the art of drawing was carried on and where also the
dead were often interred.

“Circular structures” do not appear to be represented. They cer-
tainly constitute a very ancient, and in later historic times, an
archaic form of construction. But when they are met with among
people who are exclusively hunters it may be assumed that they have
been borrowed from other spheres of civilization. Such are the
foliage huts of the pigmy races of the virgin forests of equatorial
Africa, described by Stanley and Stuhlmann; perhaps also the wood,
stone, and snow huts of the Eskimos; in the West these Arctic peoples
also inhabit quadrangular houses of boards, covered with earth.
The circular form of construction has been considered as the oldest
and much inferior to the quadrangular; this assumption, however,
as has been seen, seems not to be absolutely correct. The circular
form appeared spontaneously when a single vertical pole was used
as a support, from the top of which the roof radiated out at equal
distances, as in the conical skin tents of the prairie tribes of North
America. It also finds ready use in semisubterranean structures, as
in ancient Europe, North America, etc. As the primitive subter-
ranean habitations are usually round, the walls, made of posts,
foliage, and clay, are likewise circular, and the roof of straw, reeds,
or similar materials, is conical. Such are those in ancient Europe,
while in other parts of the world they are sometimes different, though
still similar. This round hut, which in reality is merely a covered
hearth, has an incredible power of persistence. Its history, in a
word, is that of the oldest civilization, and yet it seems to have begun
only with a rise in culture, and even then its superiority was early
contested by the quadrangular form of construction. The huts or
houses of the neolithic village of Grossgartach in Wurttemberg were
quadrangular and these are obviously not the only ones, for all the
houses of the lake dwellings of the neolithic and bronze ages on the
lakes of the Alpine European countries were also of similar shape.

Of the Hallstatt and la Téne periods there are extant in western
and central Europe numerous remains of quadrangular structures;
but by the side of these the circular building is never absent. In the
region of Heilbrunn the quadrangular houses of Grossgartach were
succeeded by the round huts of the bronze age, and these were again
followed by quadrangular houses. Most of the dwellings of the pre-
Roman period still show circular foundations of varied depth. In
the trench of Gerichstetten, near Baden, which dates from la Téne
period (second or first century B. C.), by the side of a deep well in
the form of a funnel were found two quadrangular houses, one of
which was made of posts and intertwined wickerwork, while the
other rested on limestone sockets a meter high.
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Strabo described the round huts of the Gaulic Celts made in the
form of cupolas of boards and wickerwork with high roofs; however,
in their towns they had only quadrangular buildings which, at
Bibracte, had no exact rectangular outline. The poor Germans of
the towns at the time of Tacitus built rectangular houses of posts,
the walls being formed of intertwinings filled out with painted clay;
each house was surrounded by a wide, free space, “ut fons, ut campus,
ut nemus placuit” (where a spring, a meadow, a grove pleased
them). But alongside they also had subterranean rooms, probably
round ones, covered with dung, which served as caves, as retreats,
and during the severe colds as winter dwellings, and were difficult of
discovery in case of a hostile attack. Proofs of the existence of these
circular structures are legion; they have even continued in Europe
to the present. But the quadrangular structure made its appearance
so early that it can not be given a specified origin, for instance, a
southern, as some claim (O. Montelius, S. Miiller).*

On the other hand, certain archeologists have the contrary tendency,
namely, to derive from the north of our continent for the south of
Europe a specified form of quadrangular house, the “ Megaron type,”
so termed from the poems of Homer as well as after the ruins of
Troy, Tirynth, and Mycene. We shall confine ourselves to a brief
discussion of this question only, for it is impossible to treat in an
essay like the present, even rapidly and in a sketchy manner, such a
vast subject as the oldest forms of building in all its aspects. But it
may be worth while to show by an interesting example how at present
an effort is made from various sides to put forth and consider as
proofs certain affinities in the history of art and civilization, due to
certain analogies and coincidences (in which the anthropologist would
at a glance discern the results of convergent adaptations), ascribing
them to ethnic or at least racial characteristics, while most frequently
these hypotheses are the offspring of the deep wish of their authors.

The Homeric and Mycenean “ Megaron” was a rectangular structure,
originally consisting of one room, with a door on one of the narrow

1 Grossgartach: A. Schliz, Das steinzeitliche Dorf, Stuttgart, 1901. Exclusively quad-
rangular huts on piles: L. Schumacher, Untersuchung von Pfahlbauten des Bodensees,
published in Veroeffentlichungen Badischer Sammlungen, II, 1889. Round huts of the
bronze age at Heilbrunn: Schliz, Wiirttembergische Vierteljahrschrift ftir Landes-
geschichte, W. F. XVII, 1908, p. 488. The quadrangular houses of the Halstatt period
in the same region: Ibid, p. 489, and Mitteilungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft of
Vienna, XXXIII, 1903, p. 811 (compare also Schliz, Fundbauten aus Schwaben, IX,
1901, p. 21 seq., and XIII, 1905, pp. 30-57), also Soldan, Annalen des Vereins fiir
Altertumkunde von Nassau, XXXI, 1900, p. 145 seq.; XXXII, 1902, B., pp. 35 and 59.
Gerichtstetten Schumacher, Veréffentlichungen Badischer Sammlungen, II, 1899, pp.
75-84. Round huts of the Gauls, Strabo, IV, 4, 3 (Cxsar mentions roofs of straw,
Cesar, Gallic War, V, 43, 6; of wood and straw, Vitruvius, II, 1, 3); of the Germans;
Tacitus, Germania, chapter 16. Quadrangular structures of the so-called European
origin: O. Montelius, Archiv fiir Anthropologie, 1895, p. 548; S. Miiller, Urgeschichte
Europas, p. 99. All these forms and the problems connected with them are more fully
discussed in my Natur- und Urgeschichte des Menschen, Vienna, 1909, II, pp. 27-132.
EARLIEST HUMAN HABITATIONS—HOERNES. TT

sides. In front of the door was a small open vestibule which must
have served to protect the entrance, as evidenced by a projecting roof.
In the center of the principal chamber was the hearth, and above it,
in the gabled roof, an opening to let out the smoke. The corners of
this opening rested on posts which were placed around the hearth.
In this simplest form it was the house of a small rural family, but it
also constituted the seignorial house, in the citadels which were
erected on the continent and surrounded with Cyclopean walls, in
Argolis and Asia Minor, while the palaces of Crete show no trace
whatever of this kind of structure. In the Hellenic period the
Megaron’ type gave rise to the Greek temple, especially the temple
with pilasters jutting out (Templum in antis). It appeared, also, as
an element in the great buildings of Hellenistic times, as at Per-
gamum and Priene. At least it could not suffice for the growing
needs which a dwelling of a modern period had to satisfy.

These are well-known facts. But they were employed to establish
a prehistoric phase of the “ Megaron” type. Crete and the neighbor-
ing Orient were left out of consideration because they presented
nothing analogous; besides, this house with a hearth and a gable end
suited a climate colder than that of Egypt or western Asia. R.
Henning (Das deutsche Haus in seiner historischen Entwicklung,
1882) found an affinity between the old German and old Greek
houses, though so far he could refer for the Greek house to the
templum in antis (the “ Megarons,” of Troy, etc., have not yet been
discovered) and the Homeric description of the house of Odysseus
and as northern analogies could only quote the Norwegian peasant
houses of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries A. D.

The resemblances of the houses of the North with the “ Megaron ”
type are slight and belong to later periods, if not entirely to modern
times. A house of the Viking period (800-1050 A. D.) at Augerum
in Bleking, south Sweden, had around the hearth, which stood in the
center, four posts supporting the open roof for the passage of the
smoke. In front of the entrance two posts upheld the projecting
roof. The plan of this building was not quadrangular, but oval,
nearly round (Montelius, Kulturgeschichte Schwedens, p. 238, fig.
451). The German house, discovered and described by C. Schuch-
hardt (Prehistorische Zeitschrift, I, 1909, pp. 209 and 59) on the
Roémerschanze at Potsdam, a trench which was in later times occu-
pied by the Slavs, presented the greatest similarities to the
“Megaron,” but the date of that house, which consisted of a frame of
wickerwork, filled out with earth, is doubtful; it dates, at the earliest,
from the beginning of the Christian era. There is, then, no basis for
calling the Megaron type the building form of “ German antiquity ”
or, as Henning does, “The antique Aryan form.” It is probable that

44863 °—sm 19183——3
578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

there was not one common typical form of “ German antiquity ”

of the “ primitive Aryans,” but several forms which were not marked
by national or ethnic characteristics, but merely presented diverse
forms of adaptation to the ground, the climate, the economic condi-
tions, etc.; of these the Megaron type appeared very early in south-
ern Europe and Asia Minor; in Troy of Hissarlik as early as the
third century B. C., while in northern and central Europe much
later—not before the beginning of our era. More than this at pres-
ent can not be asserted. The connection assumed by Schuchhardt
and others may hold good, but it can not yet be demonstrated, and
we should rather search for another origin for the Megaron type
than north Germany or Scandinavia.

There is no lack in other parts of the world of similarities with
the Megaron form of construction, which are not inferior to the house
of the age of the Vikings of Augerum. The Mandans of North
America had round houses, raised upon a slight excavation, with a
central hearth surrounded by posts, and letting out the smoke through
an opening in the roof. There again the door had a horizontal pro-
jecting roof supported by pillars. The neighboring races of the
Missouri adopted this type of house.

The opening in the roof resting on posts above the hearth is also
found elsewhere in North America, in the Hinterland of the North-
west, and even serves as an entrance into the subterranean house.
This is merely to show that similar forms may be met with every-
where under certain conditions, and no attempt is made to establish
any relation whatever between the Old and the New World. Accord-
ing to the results of excavations in Beeotia and Thessaly, the evolu-
tion of the habitation in northern Greece advanced from the round
hut to the oblong quadrangular construction through the interme-
diary of the oval. At Orchomenes the neolithic huts were round,
those of the second century, B. C., elliptic, while those of the middle
of the same century were rectangular. But in southern Thessaly
there were already in the neolithic age houses similar to the “ Mega-
ron.”! It is probable that the Megaron type developed spontaneously
in northern Greece as analogous forms did in other regions near and
distant. Its characteristic elements—opening in the roof and the
penthouse—may have already appeared in the circular form, as is
shown by the instance of the Mandans.

1The house of Mandares (according to Morgan) in W. Krickeberg, Illustrierte V6Ik-
erkunde, edited by G. Buschan, p. 34, fig. 4. Orchomenes: Bulle. Abhandlungen der

Bayrischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Philosophisch-historische Klasse, 1907, XXIV,
2. Megaron of Northern Thessaly: Tsuntas, Athens, 1908.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA: ITS ORIGIN, DEVELOPMENT,
AND PRESENT CONDITION.!

By JACQUES DE MorGAN, Paris.

The Iranian plateau is one of the very few countries of the world
of which we can with authority affirm that we know its first inhabi-
tants. We know that in glacial times it was inaccessible,* and even
after the melting of the snow which covered it throughout the Pleisto-
cene period it still remained barren * during many centuries, perhaps
for even thousands of years. When the tribes of Medes came there
they probably trod on virgin soil.

We include among the Medes those hordes which, taking the lead
in the Iranian‘ movement, first of all invaded Hyrcania, crossed the
low plain south of the Caspian Sea, occupied the mountains of El-
burz, and advanced on the Persian plain as far as the region where
the cities of Kashan, Hamadan, and Kermanshah now stand.

When the tide of invaders reached the mountains of Kurdistan it
encountered some peoples who, come probably in early times from
the valley of the Tigris or the north of western Asia,> settled in
the valleys; they retreated before the invasion and spread out toward
the west. Perhaps in this movement of peoples we might see the
origin of the Cassite dynasty of Babylonia,’ whose founder Gandish
or Gaddash ruled from about 1761 to 1746 B. C.7

But the invasion of the Medes was not stopped there; to the north,
Armenia, all of the upper Tigris and the upper Euphrates Valleys
were successively occupied, and the Iranian bands penetrated into
Asia Minor and as far as Oronte,’ the homes of the Hittites.®

1Translated by permission from the Revue d’Ethnographie et de Sociologie, A. Van
Gennep, Editor, Paris, vol. 3, Nos. 5-8, May—August, 1912, pp. 169-190.

2J. de Morgan, Le Plateau iranien pendant l'époque Pléistocene, in Rey. Bcole
d’Anthrop. de Paris, June 6, 1907, pp. 213-226.

% J. de Morgan, Les Premiéres Civilisations, 1909, p. 181.

‘Throughout this article we consider peoples from the standpoint of their linguistic
characteristics only.

> J. de Morgan, Prem. Civ., 1909, p. 175 sq.

6 A first invasion of Cassites in the nineteenth year of Samsilouna (about 1900 B. C.)
had been hurled back. Cf. Dhorme, Les Aryens avant Cyrus, in Conf. St. Etienne,
1910-11, p. 73.

7 Cf. Thureau-Dangin, Journ. Asiat., 1908, p. 117.

® Cf. Dhorme, op. cit., p. 70.
® Cf. Dhorme, op. cit., p. 61, and Winckler, Orient. litt. Zeitung, 1910, col. 291.

d79
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

While the movement of the Medes was executed in the north, an-
other branch of the Aryan group, the Persians, advanced toward
the southeast and south and occupied the countries near the Persian
Gulf and Persia proper.’

Since that period, that is, since about 4000 B. C., the nature of the
population of Persia has been modified? only in Media, the invasion
of which by the Turks, only a thousand years ago, drove back the
ancient inhabitants on their congeners in the mountains of Kurdistan.*

From the twentieth century before our era western Asia has thus
been shared by two very distinct elements, the old races, Semitic and
aborigines (Elamites, Hittites, Caucasians, etc.) in the west, and the
newcomers of the Aryan group in the north and east.*

Among these two elements the principles of government show some
decided differences. While in the Semitic country feudalism was
based on absolute obedience to suzerain and entire ownership by the
inaster, among the Aryans the same system of government rested on
the great vassals or companions of the supreme chief.* This nobility
included the younger branches of the royal family and the principal
chiefs of tribes which had taken part in the conquest. It constituted
a sort of council which governed with the sovereign.* The seigniors
themselves in their provincial governments surrounded themselves
with their principal subordinates, descendants of those who had
served under their ancestors at the time of the invasion.

After the conquest each of the chief vassals was granted or re-
ceived a territory proportionate to the importance of his tribe, and
the same was done for each of the clans, then for the families. Thus
a kind of complete hierarchy was established from the owner of a
village or a group of tents up to the supreme master.

The empire belonged primarily to the Medes; probably because
they were the most numerous and the first comers. But their forces
being spread all the way from Parthia to the borders of Oronte, the
Persians, whose forces were more concentrated, snatched away their
supremacy. This revolution was otherwise of no consequence from
the point of view of social organization. Cyrus governed as king of

1 Provinces of Seistan, Kerman, Shiraz, Ispahan, bordering the mountains north of the
Gulf of Persia as far as Susiana.

2 We do not intend to speak of the sporadic peoples, Jews, Chaldeans, Arabs, Afghans,
Hindus.

3 Some authors are of the opinion that the Cassites were Aryans. (Cf. Dhorme, op. cit.,
p. 66 sq.) In that case they would have preceded the Medes and Persians in Ivan and
represent the first human wave that traversed the Persian Plateau.

4%n the Aryan group we include peoples speaking languages related to the Sanskrit,
Greek, Latin, Germanic, Persian, etc.

5 The same traditions are found among ali the Aryan peoples who later invaded Burope,
the Germans among others.

€Proofs of the existence of this council of nobles are numerous in the history of
Persia; but it is very interesting to find the same constitution among the Harri, an
Aryan caste which, about the epoch of Rameses II, governed the country of the Mitanni.
Cf. Dhorme, op. cit., p. 67.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—-DE MORGAN. 581

the Persians and Medes, while his ancestors had been ruled by the
king of the Medes and Persians. The chief men of the realms kept
their estates and their rank, and, according as they were either of
Persian or Medic origin, they continued to compose the royal council.
It is true that at first they were less favored in what concerned im-
portant affairs, but little by little equilibrium was established and the
Persians and Medes became a single nation.

The Achemenian sovereigns divided their empire among satraps,
for the most part hereditary proprietors of the land, whom it would
be a great injury to have as governors, in the sense given to that
title in our day. The seigniors of less importance conserved their
rights, their privileges, their lands, as well as the moral situation
they had in the State. This aristocracy was a curb on the royal
power; the kings dreaded it and willingly or by force governed
under it.

To be sure, in times of trouble or revolt many members of this
nobility, both great and humble, would be losers; but these rigor-
ous measures applied only to individuals and the principles were not
in the least broken. As a result of traditional influence, where a
king could be found to preserve it, the feudal organization was much
more favored than opposed by the Achemenide. Moreover, feudal-
ism insured great security through the loyalty of subjects of the
empire.

The Macedonian Conquest brought the first great change which
still survives in the political and social life of Persia. The Greeks
must have a governor for themselves if they would preserve the
empire. Nearly all of the great satraps, Greeks or natives, were
appointed according to the governmental views of the conqueror
and his followers. Macedonian garrisons occupied the principal
cities to maintain the obedience of the inhabitants, to lend a strong
hand to the governors, and at the same time to watch their conduct.
The Persians who under Alexander performed the duties of satraps
were no more than officials, obedient to higher powers. As to the
common aristocracy, it felt this change in power in a much less
degree, for its privileges were continued, its property remained in
its possession, and perhaps its local influence was even increased by
the debasement of the chief seigniors.

The defeat of Darius Codomanus brought to the high Iranian
nobility the loss of its army, which was the chief source of its riches
and of its credit. After Alexander, the principal officers were Greeks,
commanding the troops of their nations, and if at times certain
Persian nobles served in the Macedonian army it was only at the
head of native troops, and consequently without much authority.

1 See in this connection the inscription of Darius at Bisoutoun.
582 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Most of the officers of the Achzemenian army retired to their lands,
hoping to see the happy fortune of yesterday return.

The political policy of the Seleucid followed in all respects that
of Alexander; nevertheless, the military power of these kings, no
longer having the energy of the conquest, and the Macedonian forces
available for an invasion being insufficient in number for continued
control by force of arms, the seigniors of the times of the Achwmen-
ide again took the lead and endeavored to regain their independ-
ence. Revolts became frequent in the provinces, incursions on the
frontiers multiplied. There then arose, exclusive of Bactria, a con-
siderable number of small realms, such as that of the Arsacide,!
Scythian chiefs who had established themselves in the Seleucid
province of Parthia,? such as that of Perside,? where the priestly
character of the princes constrained the kings of Syria in some re-
spects, and numerous small principalities, of which even the names
are lost or hardly preserved in history. This was the awakening of
national feudalism, and this feudalism seems to have become of more
importance than ever when there suddenly occurred the conquest of
Persia by the Parthians.

The Parthians were Scythian nomads, in ancient times tenting in
the valley of the Ochus, a river of the Oxus Basin. About 250 B. C.
they crossed the Seleucid frontier, entered the province of Parthia,
and established * themselves there, retaining all of it, with the city of
Dara,’ as the seat of their government, the capital of their ancient
patrimony. In this way they founded a small State, which for about ®
a century wrestled for its independence and increased its power some-
what.’ Finally, Mithridates I succeeded not only in pushing back the
Greek troops who had attempted to crush his rising power, but in a
few years he took possession of entire Persia, some Bactrian prov-
inces, and at the end of his reign minted money,’ even in Syria, whose
King, Demetrius Nictator, was his prisoner in Hyrcania.®? A new
empire was founded, itself based on feudalism such as was in
force among the Scythian nomads. The seigniors of the new stock

1This name is of Persian and not Scythian origin; for we know that Darius II
Ochus (405-359 B. C.) carried the name of Arsace before taking the throne. Cf.
BEd. Dronin, Onamastique Arsacide.

2The name Parthia already existed at the time of the Achwmenide (Herodotus, VII,
96). It was therefore not the Parthians who had given it to him. They had taken it
after the conquest of that province.

2Cf, Col, Allotte de la Fuye, Corolla Numismatica, 1906; Etude sur la Numismatique
de la Perside, London, 1906. A memoir in which there is a complete bibliography con-
cerning sources of history of Perside.

Justin, XLI, 4; Strabo, XI, ix, 2.

BOT. Olshausen, Parthava und Pahlay, Berlin, 1877, p. “10, seq.

® From 250 to about 170 B. C. The first princes were: Arsace I (250-248), Tridate I
(248-211), Arsace II (211-191), Phriapatius (191-176), and Phraate I (176-171 B. C.).

™Hyrceania (Province of Astrabad) and some territories in Media, at most as far as
Ragae.

8 Cf. W. Wroth, Catalogue of British Museum, Arsacides, pl. 3, figs. 7-12.

Justin; SSVI; 1.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—-DE MORGAN. 583

revived some appanages. One King, Bacasis, probably of the Par-
thian race, imposed a tax on the Medes, and the old aristocracy
was humbled by the new, the princes of Perside among others.t. It
was at about this time that were founded the principalities of
Characéne? and Elymaide,* as well as the Kingdom of Armenia,*
which later was the cause of all the wars between the Romans and the
Persians.

Elymaide and Characéne had become dependent provinces of the
empire, but kept the right to mint money,’ a privilege of which only
traces are found in these principalities and which Mithridates prob-
ably tolerated only because of its immediate neighborhood to Syria
and the services that the dynasties of these countries had been able to
render to his cause during the conflicts between Persia and the
Seleucide.

But this changing of government did not modify the deep-seated
composition of society. To the old great feudatories were joined the
new, and the lesser seigniors became possessors of their lands, passing
only from the authority of Greek governors to that of the new-
comers. The Parthians were not concerned in feudalism as a whole
for that mode of government was already in accord with their tradi-
tions.°

In Elymaide, under the reign of the great king Osroé,’ the ancient
dynasty of the Kamnaskirés made place for the new princes all car-
rying Arsacid names,® dynasties which, like those of Characéne,®
could no longer from the beginning of this epoch coin money with
the portrait of their ruler, the King of Kings,!° though bearing their
name in the legend. It was feudalism which started the upheaval
that overthrew the Arsacid dynasty. A prince of Perside, Ar-
taxerxes, son of Papek,!! profiting by the instability of the throne of

i Strabo, Liv. XV, ch. 3, 23. The first period of Persian numismatic autonomy com-
mences about 220 B. C., and stops at about the epoch of the rise of the power of the
Arsacide.

2 Hypsaosines (about 124 B. C.) was the first prince of Characéne of whom we have
medals. He was doubtless the founder of his dynasty and the restorer of the city of
Charax. Cf. Lucien, Macrobii XVI.

’ The earliest medal that we know of Elymaide is a tertadrachm of Kamnaskires (I?)
struck about 160 B. C., under the reign of Antiochus IV or of Demetrius I of Syria.

“Mithridates I had given the crown of Armenia to his son Valarsace. Cf. Moise de
Khoresie, Langlois Translation, II, 3-7.

'Cf. E. Babelon, Sur la numismatique et la chronologie de Characéne, in Journ.
@archéol. et de numismatique; Athens, 1848, I, pp. 381-404. Col. Allotte de la Fuye,
Sur la numismatique de l’Elymaide dans Mém. Deleg. en Perse, 1905, Rey. numism.,
1902, La Dynastie des Kamnaskirés.

8 Toward the end of the dynasty the Parthian nobility called Vononés II to the
throne, when that prince was viceroy of Media, and incited Méherdatés to revolt against
Gotarzes, which brought Cinnamus to the throne, which recalled Artaban III, after
having dethroned him, ete.

7J. de Morgan, Numismatique de la Perse antique, a work in preparation.

§ Col. Allotte de la Fuye, op. cit., 1905.

* Cf. Ed. Dronin, Journ. Asiat., June, 1889, ed., Rev. num., 1883, 2d quarter, p. 373 seq.

10 J. de Morgan, Num. Perse antique, in preparation.

4 Cf, von Gudschmidt, Zeitschr. d, Deut. Gesell., 34, 734.
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Persia,’ restored the power and the religion? of the people of the
Tranian race. From that time the Parthian nobility was humbled
in its turn, and that of ancient times again acquired all its preroga-
tives. The Arsacides and their congeners disappeared, some took
refuge in Armenia,’ in Georgia,t among the Aghuanks,® and
in other countries where some princes of their family® still reigned.
As to the majority of the Parthian tribe, it became absorbed in the
Iranian mass and left no traces.

The Persian seigniors were, one after another, called to the highest
duties of the State; they reconstituted the council of nobles, who, in
many instances, attained the throne. All the satraps, all the high
officials, were Persians, and the principalities, reduced to obedience,
ceased to issue money. In this restoration of the Iranian power the
Sassanian sovereigns were encouraged by Archemedian traditions.

The Arab invasion followed, which modified only the religion,
having no effect on other institutions of the country. The Persians
became Mussulmans without making any great resistance. The Ule-
mas were substituted for the Mazdean priests, and among the seig-
niors hereditary rights were transmitted as in the past, while some
of the important feudatories of old set up their principalities in the
realm. The Ispehbeds of Thabéristaén (Mazanderan) coined money
of the type of Chrosoés IT but with Mussulman legends.”

The only effect of the invasion of the Turks in the north of Persia
was to drive out the Iranians who dwelt there and to substitute the
régime of the Begs for that of the Khans and the Aghas; but it
affected only the open regions in the northern territories, the moun-
tain country remaining Iranian. The south and the center of Persia

1 At the close of the reign of Mithridates IV, numerous competitors for the throne arose
in all the Provinces of the Arsacide, of which the power, greatly weakened by their wars
against the Romans and against the barbarian peoples of the east, became diminished
from day to day.

2The Mazdean religion was preserved pure throughout the principality of Perside
whence came the Sassanian dynasty.

The Arsacid dynasty of Armenia, notwithstanding its numerous quarrels with Rome,
succeeded in maintaining itself for a long time after the fall of the Arsacide in Persia.
Cf. Moise de Khorém, Patkanian (Hist. de l’Arménie), ete.

«Transcaucasia was then divided into a great number of small States, which in turn
passed to the Romans and the Parthians; an Arsacid branch had been established in
Georgia.

5 Cf. Patkanian, Hist. armen.

® One Arsacid branch ruled over the Kouchans and the Thetals (Bactria and Caboul),
another over the Massagetes and the Ephina (Lepones of Tacitus), to the north of
Caucasus; the Kingdom of Sacasténe and of the Indus appear also to have been founded
by a branch of the Arsacid family.

7These princes ruled at Thabéristan (country of hatchets, otherwise called wood-
choppers), forest region of Mazanderan situated between the plain of Ashraf and the
district of Tunékaéboun, comprising the cities of Barfrush, Sari, and Amol, and limited
to the south by the mountains of Elburz. This principality had completely disappeared in
the Middle Ages and to-day there remains scarcely the memory of it in the country that
included it.

8 All Mazanderan, Ghilan, and Talish remained in the possession of peoples speaking
Iranian dialects. Cf. J. de Morgan, Mission scientif. en Perse, 1889-1891, V® partie.
tudes linguistiques.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 585

remained unchanged and preserved the feudal traditions under which
the national kings were trusted, like their predecessors, with the
throne.

Finally, there followed the dynasty of the Turkish Khadjars,1
who exploited the country but did not govern it. In all districts
adjacent to the principal centers,” in those where it was easy to oper-
ate with armies, the old nobility disappeared little by little, ruined,
dispossessed, deprived of important duties; but in all the remote
provinces, in the mountains where the Turkomans dared not ven-
ture, the Aghas, the Khans, and the Vahlis preserved their absolute
power at the expense of an annual tribute which they paid to the
Crown.

Moreover, the governments of the provinces being sold at auction,
it was among the landed property holders, among the Khadjar®
princes and the high Turkoman dignitaries, among those, who in the
eyes of the King, offered the highest guarantees, that the administra-
tion of the provinces was distributed, and often the seigniors of old
extraction bought the government of their own dependencies in order
to safeguard the interests of their families. In this case they left
all their serfs in the dependency, decorating them merely with
pompous titles pertaining to their new duties.

In that case, on the contrary, where the new governor owned no
lands of which he had purchased the government, he attached to
his suite certain clients* drawn from his particular domains and, in
consideration of an annual rent and some gifts, granted them all
the expenses of the Province, allowing to each according to the face
value it offered. Very often the purchase of the same government
was made by a joint company of all these officials. It mattered little
whether the several members of the company had the requisite
abilities for filling their offices; each district was given its vice gov-
ernor, each group of villages its chief, and everyone was located
with his own clients living on the country and squeezing it for all
it was worth. The demands generally exceeded reasonable limits.
Then the governor was changed, his followers retiring with him,

1The Khadjars abandoned the old capital Ispahan and founded a new one at Teheran,
near the site of ancient Ragae in order to be in the midst of the land formerly con-
quered by the Turks and to be near Turkomania from which in case of need they could
quickly bring some tribes.

?The Turkoman tribe of Khadjars lived at Ak Kala (white fort) on the river Kara Su
(black water), some little way to the north of the city of Astrabad on the Turkoman
steppe. Exempt from taxes and loaded with favors, since the throne belonged to one of
their number, this tribe lived in idleness.

®The Khadjar princes increased greatly in Persia, Fath-’Ali Shah had more than a
hundred sons who nearly all had descendants.

*The civil household of a governor was composed of a hundred persons more or less,
without counting the servants, ministers, chaplains, doctors, secretaries, vice governors,
chiefs of police, treasurers, etc. In a military household it was more numerous still.
None of these functionaries were paid, but on the contrary, it was a temporary expense
to him who accepted the position.
586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

and a new official came accompanied as before by a great number
of satellites and inspired by the same thought of grasping as much as
possible.

Tt was in this way that feudalism in these Provinces was little by
little crushed out, and though some of its privileges remained, it
was only by tolerance on the part of the court whose interest it was
to have always at hand some persons responsible and able to pay
according to the needs or fancies of any of the officials of the pro-
vincial government.

These seigniors, through fear of losing their lands,! crushed the
people to satisfy their high position. Their only authority was that
which remained over their slaves. All carried high sounding but
otherwise empty titles, such “the saber of the law, the sword of
empires, the eye of justice, the backbone of power,” etc. They were
marshals, generals, colonels,? with no duties, as was well known,
watching the sum poured out to the King of Kings in order to re-
ceive like honors, the only advantage of which was to give them a
favored place at court, some slight protection against exactions, and
the hope that there might come to them a day when they might like-
wise purchase a government or some authority permitting them to
replenish their purses and act before others as others had acted before
them.

Such was the condition of the nobility in the royal Provinces for
20 years. But it was far from true that all the Provinces thus will-
ingly obeyed the wishes of the officials named by Teheran. Prac-
tically, the compass of many of the Provinces was limited to the
principal place included in its jurisdiction, while the rest of the
Province remained as before, under the authority of seigniors, obedi-
ent somewhat less to the royal officials as they were farther from the
large cities, and as their land was more inaccessible.

These Vahlis, Khans, Begs, and Aghas* were veritable kings in
their domains; they succeeded one another from father to son, re-
ceiving only as a matter of form the investiture of Teheran. They
preserved an absolute freedom through presents sent at opportune
times; the richest were offered the very highest guarantee, that of
marrying, in consideration of a very great sum, one of the numerous
daughters of the king.

1Fach village had its responsible chief and besides this chief the “ white beards”
(Rich séfid) ; above was the proprietor of the land, the Khan who often owned many
villages. The land was sold only with the houses built thereon and the people dwelling
on it. They estimated the value not according to the area of lands under cultivation,
but according to the number of houses, each house being estimated at five persons. It
was the same with the nomad tribes who estimated only by the number of tents.

2In the single village of Tauris there were in 1890 more than 3,000 persons bearing
the title of general or higher officer.

8 See the work on Kurd feudalism in the Middle Ages by Chéref Nimeh, translated by
D, Charmoy.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 587

The power of these princes was unlimited and they could put to
death those of their subjects (rayats)! who had had the misfortune
to displease them. Their friends and feudatories were their offi-
cials, their functionaries whom they otherwise designated as “ do-
mestic,” but who, in fact, composed their council. They never exer-
cised the powers thus granted with cruelty or injustice. Their posi-
tion itself depended on their ruling properly, since their feudatories
were always ready to depose them, just as, under the Sassanians,
the nobility drove the native rulers from the throne.

The peasants poured into dependencies ruled with justice? and
the wealth of the chief as well as his military power was appreciably
increased when the rayats themselves quit the territories or ruled
unjustly or arbitrarily. Wealth in Persia does not depend on the
ownership of land, but solely on the power to control labor to
cultivate it.

Among these tribes there are some customs which, although not
written, have no less the force of law, and it is often by these
common laws, the antiquity of which goes back to the early period
of the Iranian invasion, that cases are judged. The Koran is
faithfully consulted, but its text, always very elastic, has not been
interpreted in the same spirit which always has ruled among the
nomads; thus it lends itself with extreme complacency to the appli-
eation of old Persian customs.

The sovereigns* who have reigned at Ispahan, those of Iranian
blood, far from seeking to crush the nobility, have made of it a
governmental instrument of the first order. Likewise, resting on
their feudatories and on the townsmen of cities with whom the un-
derstanding has been extremely frank, they have made Persia the
richest and most powerful country of all the Orient. The wisdom
and the regard for traditions which ruled at their court and which,
under the Achemenide and the Sassanians, had raised so high the

1The rayat is rather a serf than a peasant in the meaning that we give to the latter
class. The rayat, however, has over the serf the great advantage that he can quit the
land without permission of his master and establish himself elsewhere. This privilege
protects him from too severe exactions.

*JI have seen some clans, where the chief was esteemed as a just man, increase in
four or five years from 10 to 300 tents, and frequently also the reverse appeared.

‘The Kings of Persia carry even to-day the title of shahan-shah “king of kings,”
a title essentially feudal. Under the Sassanians, the title was written in the Semitic
language, Malkin Malka, which could perhaps be read shahan-shah; under the Parthians
they wrote it in Greek, Basiléos Basilé0n, Under the Achemenide, Khshayathiya
Khshayathiyanan, whence comes the actual pronounciation, and the Achemenide had
borrowed from the Assyrians sar raba “great king,” sar martat ‘king of nations,”
sar sa nabhar matat “king of all nations,” sar sarri “king of kings.” The Persians
to-day have difficulty in explaining this title. To the credulous natives, they say that
the sovereign is in reality the king of other kings, that in the world nothing is done
without order. With foreigners their pretentions are less great. They are content to
say that the name has fallen into desuetude, not taking any account of the fact that the
King of Persia is still effectively king of a great number of seigniors and that his title
is that which fits him the best.
588 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

honor of their country, had enabled them to organize Persia in ac-
cord with the spirit of its people, to enrich it and make it powerful
in the eyes of foreigners.

But the Turkoman dynasty, on coming to the throne, broke with
the old institutions, not through politics but through cupidity. In-
stead of trusting to feudalism it combated it because of its wealth,
forcibly destroyed it wherever possible to enforce its power, replac-
ing that system in the government of its new subjects by a hier-
archy of tyrants preoccupied altogether with enriching themselves
and with responding to the demands of its masters at Teheran.

All the wealth of the country was little by little absorbed by the
King and his followers, by his harem, by his ruinous fancies. They
lost in Persia the idea of administration, and little by little the
thirst of robbers gained the entire country. There was no longer
justice, because from top to bottom of the social scale the aim pur-
sued was unjust. No longer were there works of public utility,
which had been the glory of the reign of Shah Abbas. No longer
was there an army, or police, for the palace of the King absorbed
all the resources, and extortions, as well as the sale of valuable
privileges for ready money, caused a general impoverishment of
the country. The royal treasury, called the reserve of the Khadjars,
was emptied, and nothing was left but the name—the jewels and
the silver plate were sold, debts were incurred to pay dancers and
astrologers, to maintain the 3,000 people of the harem, and to treat
themselves royally in Europe as well as at home. In this way, in
about a hundred years, there passed away an Empire which had
merited respect for centuries.

But though the Khadjars’ succeeded in reversing the old order of
things in all those parts of their empire which they could directly
control, they made hardly any encroachment among the mountain-
eers and in regions far from their capital. Feudalism there sur-
vives in its full force. In Turkomania the tribes still live as in
the time of Djenghis Khan and of Timour Leng, and their Beys’
are absolute masters in their tribes. It is the same among the Aghas
in certain parts of Kurdistan, among the Khans in Luristan, among
the Vahlis in Pusht-i-Kuh, in the country of the Bakhtiyari, and
farther still toward the east.

These are the same Bakhtiyari, seigniors of the old Iranian stock,
who seek to overthrow the absolute power of the Shahan-Shah,
renewing after an interval of 17 centuries, under a new form which
probably, alas, will be less fortunate, the revolution which Artax-
erxes I, son of Papek, the Sassanian, carried on in Persia.

A fan of the Empire, if not the half of the habitable country,
has always submitted to feudal rule, and entire Persia is still imbued

1In Turkestan, Bai; in Azerbijan and Transcaucasia, Beg; amoug the Osmanlis, Bey.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—-DE MORGAN. 589

with the principle of feudalism, with respect for a hierarchy which
has been in force for a thousand years.

Among the seigniors whose power has been preserved safe and
sound there are those who never mention the name of the King,
who wait not for his approval to transmit the power from father to
son, who for centuries have not turned into the treasury any tribute
whatever. When these and their rayats express themselves con-
cerning their Government there is heard nothing but maledictions.

Since 1889, when I first set foot on the soil of Persia, I have lived
much among the nomads and in the military camps. Some reminders
of my sojourns among these primitive people will have, I think,
some interest. From an ethnographic and sociologic standpoint the
story you are about to read gives an accurate account of the situation
in which the latest great seigniors of Persia live. I will not at-
tempt to describe these old dependencies or enter into all the details
of the life of the inhabitants, but desire only briefly to show what
their system of life is—what are their ambitions and occupations.

When, after long end tedious halts on the dusty and stony roads
of the Persian plateau, you emerge from the defiles of Elburz to
approach Astrabad, you see in the distance an immense plain, end-
ing at the horizon in a blue line seeming to follow that of the
Caspian Sea, which bounds the view on the left. This plain begins
at the foot of some hills forming the final spurs of the great range.
It seems to reach to infinity. Smooth, without the least wrinkle,
of a uniform green color, it surprises by its immensity. Here and
there, however, isles rise in this ocean of verdure, some knolls scarcely
perceptible in the distance and lost in the hazy bluish color of the
horizon. ‘Then, with field glasses, you distinguish some small gray
points, sometimes grouped, sometimes isolated, now and then joined
like the windings of a great serpent. Looking closely you see the
land disappear from view, always alike toward the north, and you
understand why the ancient geographers considered these imper-
ceptible limits as the end of the habitable world.

This plain is the steppe; these mounds are the vast ruins calcined
by the burning of the great cities of antiquity; these grayish points
show the unknown villages grouped by tribes or fixed on the borders
of some watercourses which, sprinkling this immense carpet of
verdure, flow out in a thousand recesses, slowly, in harmony with
the majesty of the region that they traverse. This blue line of the
horizon is the Empire of the Tsar.

Still advancing, you descend some low hills covered with bushes;
then all at once the land becomes level and the steppe begins, covered
with short grass, without a pebble, without a hillock, to break the
monotony of this perfect level.
590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

To the right and left are some small circular knolls, some decimeters
at least in height, encircled by a ring about 6 feet in diameter, from
which the ground appears to have been dug out in former times.
You seem to see traces of child’s play. These are Turkoman graves.
Little by little the rains have effaced the small tumulus and filled the
circular pit whence was taken out the earth of the hillock. These
graves, scattered without order on this immense plain, mark the place
where died those whose bleached bones rest some feet underground,
near some encampment where the tribe then lived. Then, the de-
mand for troops calling them elsewhere, the camp was left, and no
one since then has stopped near these tombs. From the day when
the earth received them, these beings have been forgotten forever.

We pass on, and the journey is continued with no signs of path
or road, for the steppe has none; but we are guided on the march by
the sun. Night falls, and the stars replace the sun to indicate the
course,

Finally, at a little distance, some beams of light are seen and sud-
denly a pack of hounds come bounding forth. The guardians of
the village are warned of our approach.

The village, otherwise of very little importance, has about 30
kibitkas, or circular tents, 5 to 8 meters in diameter, surrounded by
a latticed wall made of reeds, skillfully tied together and covered
with a thick felt in the form of a dome. The men, seated there
smoking the tchibong, are capped with enormous hats of sheepskin,
dressed in a dark blue cotton cloth, sordid and covered with grease,
smelling of sheep, horse, studded with vermin; near them are their
guns, and at their belts glitter three or four rows of brass scabbards.
On the ground an old mat and a carpet, torn and stained. In the
middle of the kibitka burns a fire of argoles, the acrid smoke of
which mingles with that of the pipes. Some young lambs and a
colt are tied in a corner; a pile of mattresses and coverings wait to
serve for bedding at night. Some women in red rags and tatters,
these likewise of a repulsive slovenliness, go and come, taking orders
and grumbling. A little boy approaches and gazes at me with his
two big, beautiful, dusky eyes. Most fortunately, being Christian.
IT am impure and consequently exempt from the grasp of the hand
of the men and from the caresses of the child. The dogs also are
impure, so that perhaps through dread of filthiness or respect for
beliefs they dare not enter the kibitka, and stay at the door.

After the customary salutations these people conversed on subjects
of interest to them—their horses, colts, money; above all, of silver,
but also of wool from their sheep, for which they did not obtain
as much as the value of a dog of one of the Armenian Christians
come to the village. This sale kept them a little too near Astrabad,
which made them fear that the governor might hear of their indif-
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA——-DE MORGAN. 591

ferent conversation on the subject of taxes. Moreover, on the least
alarm they prepared to withdraw toward the Atrek River, so as not
to pay the Adjémis (Persians). Then they talked about one of
their young men who recently had been accused of stealing three
horses from a Persian camp and commended his valor.

Thinking that I had stayed long enough in this dirty, infected
place to pay honor to my hosts, I entered the tent prepared for my
use. Late in the evening, a great Turkoman brought a large copper
tray covered with a cloth not too dirty. It is my dinner that my host
offers me, some curd and cheese, a ragout of chicken with saffron,
some rice, some bread, and a roast goose. Unfortunately, they had
neglected to dress the goose.

Of the same race as the Turkomans,! the Shah-Sévends? are the
Tartars inhabiting the valley of Kara Su, tributary to the Araxes.
Their territory lies between the Russian frontier of Leukoran and
Kara Dagh.* Many years ago they revolted against Persian au-
thority, pillaged the neighboring villages and the valley, and were
obedient only to their chiefs. During the 25 years that I traveled in
Persia, it had not been possible for me to enter their country and
the only time that I had had the privilege of meeting any of their
chiefs was in the streets of Ardebil, when they passed by in chains.
But since that time the chiefs have settled their difficulties by mak-
ing some presents to the authorities at Taurus, principally to the
erown prince, who later occupied the throne under the name of
Mehmet Shah, and to-day, returned home, they have resumed their
life of brigands and wage war only the more fiercely against Persian
troops.

Although of nomad origin, like all the Tartars of Transcaucasia
and Azerbijan, they have followed the example of their congeners
and built a number of villages in their valley, living in them in
winter, and as spring opens seeking the pastures of the mountains
with their herds. They are very contented seigniors, for they levy
on the royal authorities, rob their neighbors, and live as largely as
possible under the feudal system of their ancestors.

Among them there are many tribes and consequently many chiefs;
while each of the tribes is divided into clans which, as in early times,
furnish the chiefs with subsidies and men, so that they may be able to

1These Turks have lived in the country since the invasions of the Middle Ages. It
is probable that they came from the north through Derbend, Baku, and the Magan
steppe, and that they belonged to the same immigration as the Tartars of Kazan and
the Crimea, when the population of Azerbijan seems to have come by Chah-Toud and
Teheran skirting along by Turkomania the southern foot of Elburz on the plateau.

2 Shah-Sévends; from Shah, King; and Sermek-Aimer, friends of the King.

3This valley of Kara Su is the only way open in the north of Persia by which in-
vasions coming from the north by the defiles of Derbend could have been introduced on
the Iranian plateau. To the west are the high mountains of Kara Dagh, to the east the
peaks of Talish, extensions of Elburz, Only the valley of the Kara Su is open.
592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

sustain the interests of the tribe. It is estimated that there are
from 30,000 to 40,000 of these “ favorites of the King.”

In advancing toward the west you cease to see the Turks, and
little by little the Kurd element predominates in the villages, for the
open regions are left behind to enter the mountain gorges, and it is
only in the flat regions suitable for maneuvers of their cavalry that
the men of the steppes are established. The hilly regions favor am-
buscades, and the Tartars have no taste for a kind of combat that
does not permit an attack from afar, free from much danger, and
then to escape at full speed of their horses when a hand-to-hand fight
becomes inevitable. The Persians themselves do not at all like expe-
ditions into the mountains, and the defiles inspire them with such
great terror that the Kurds have been able to preserve their full
independence.

All these peoples, moreover, Persians, Turks, Kurds, Liurs, etc.,
are the most perfect cowards. War for them consists in pillage;
they assassinate, but they do not come to blows. The Turks them-
selves, who in other countries under powerful chiefs show such great
military qualities, are wretched soldiers under the Persian system.

Tn my many journeys I am often placed in perilous situations. On
nearly every journey I have been deserted by all my native personnel
or else forced to go on with much reduced force rather than to be
left alone. My men would tell me “I fear,” and I could not under-
stand this cowardice on the part of men armed and strong enough
for defense. But in studying them and talking with them I finally
comprehended their attitude. Fear among these people, who had
never been taught courage, is a nervous sensation comparable to
vertigo. Fear is not dishonorable in them any more than vertigo
is in us, and none of them ever having been taught to banish fear by
the will, nor made to understand that on courage depends the life
and prosperity of the individual and the community, they give way
to fear and frankly confess it. A Persian general who came one
day to tell me of a fight between some nomads ended his story with
this conclusion: “ No; never have I had such fear of my life.”

At the foot of Mount Ararat, in the angle formed by the two fron-
tiers of Russia and Turkey, lies the Territory of Maku. The khans
are Kurd nobles. Their capital, Maku, is an agglomeration built
beneath an immense rock shelter and of most curious appearance.
This very peculiar site has probably always been inhabited ever since
man came into these mountains. You see there numerous traces of
a small Armenian village, and it is said that cuneiform inscriptions
are found which are probably written in an extinct language.’

1This country during the Assyrian epoch was part of the Kingdom of Urartu (or
de Van) where they spoke a special language, some texts of which are found near
Gheuk-tchai (blue lake, Goktcha of the Russians) near Etchmiadzin and as far as
Mukri in Turkestan.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 598

In summer the villagers and townsmen go to the mountains with
their herds. The khan is established in a cool place, where he re-
ceives with the most perfect affability, for he is a very politic man
through his contact with the Russians.

In winter there comes to live at Maku not only the khan, but a
crowd of his friends, who, like himself, carry the title of khans.
They own a good number of villages, and, with their chief, hold a
small court. It is the khan who treats with the Persian Government
for all his family on questions of rent, and his friends are heard with
him. It is likewise the khan who in his domains and those of his
family levies the troops necessary for guarding the frontiers on the
Turkish side and to prevent the Kurds of the vicinity of Bayazid
from making raids on his territory. One of his family generally
commands this small army, but when circumstances are urgent the
khan himself conducts the operations.

The Persian Government has always considered the khans of Maku
as the valuable guardians of its frontiers. Thus, in the twentieth
century, and in one of the Provinces most submissive to the royal
administration, Azerbijan, we see this khannat enjoy all the preroga-
tives of feudalism, have his vassals, his troops, and administer them
himself, with the consent of the Persian Government.

But this seignoir who, often crossing the Araxes River, takes the
road for Tiflis, very rarely goes to Taurus. Who knows, after all,
whether the friendship of the viceroy of Azerbijan will not become
so pressing that, held by the most cordial hospitality, he will never
revere his small dependencies? He prefers now to maintain from
afar equally valuable relations.

It is quite otherwise among certain Kurd tribes of Mukri. Those
who have preserved most of their liberties attain it only against the
will of the kings of Persia. In many cases the Persians have punished
them with the greatest severity.

I shall not speak of the khans and aghas of Gherrus, of the
valleys of Djaghatu and Tatau, of those of Sakkis, of Bahnech,
of Saudj-Bulaq.' They are to-day just as the provincial seigniors
were in France during the reigns of Louis XV and Louis XVI;
that is, great land proprietors deprived of all their feudal rights. I
shall speak only of two small tribes, those of the Maméches and the
Menghurs, irreconcilable enemies inhabiting the valley of Kialvi,?
tributary of the Tigris, on the frontiers of Turkey, who are per-
mitted to support themselves and to live according to the customs of
their fathers.

1+ These districts formed part formerly of the Madai country where the Assyrians often
came on expeditions. The cuneiform texts teach us that they found there a great many
small principalities. The country was then in the same social conditions as at the
present day.

2Le zab of cuneiform texts.

44863°—sm 1913——38
594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

These tribes have at their head some aghas and are subdivided into
a goodly number of clans, each controlled by more or less remote
relatives of the chiefs. They could each furnish but a few hundred
armed men. The winter they spend in the villages, in the summer
they live in their black tents. During the cool season they stay in
the valley and take care of their fields; when the heat comes they
betake themselves to the mountains with their herds.

In the village the house of the chief is the largest and can be
distinguished from afar; at the camp his tent exceeds all the neigh-
boring ones in height. It is covered with black mohair cloth encir-
cled with embroidered plants (tchikhs) and is divided into three
rooms—the center one, open on one side, is the konak, or reception
room; the rooms on the right and left side are closed, one is the
men’s apartment, the other the andérun, or harem, where the
women and young children stay. The cooking is done in the andé-
run, and in the men’s room, or the konak, they eat their meals.
Before the tents the horses are tied, always saddled.

Each group of habitations in the mountains has its great tent in
the center of the camp, but much smaller than that of the agha, and
the group of the chief and of his relatives occupies the center of
these small villages. In the tent of the agha are found the silver
arms, scrolls, all the most precious possessions of the tribe, as well
as means of defense against attack.

All the cattle of the tribe are brought together for pasturage and
the men form a strong guard around it; but when evening comes each
village of tents drives home its herd and guards it there during the
night. A real pack of enormous dogs watches on the outskirts, and
at the least alarm all the Kurds are afoot, gun in hand.

While the herds are in the mountains, a certain number of men
stay in the villages of the valley to watch the crop of wheat and to
prevent an enemy from burning it. At harvest time a good number
of men come down from the mountain.

The cultivated lands are parceled out among the various subordi-
nate chiefs, the agha reserving his part, and each subchief allots
shares among the rayats, all the parcels being given pro rata accord-
ing to the number of field hands at the disposal of each clan.

In Persia, down to recent years, theoretically there was no real
ownership of land. All, lands and men, belonged to the King; but
in practice the great benevolence of the sovereign allows the use of
lands by certain persons who have paid rental for it. This unusual
method of proprietorship is passed on from great to small in the
customs of the entire population. In such manner, among the Kurds,
for example, the agha is supposed to own everything and only tem-
porarily delegates his rights. But if the King or the agha wished to
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 595

take possession of these lands there would be a general levy of arms,
custom having more force than the law.

In Kurdistan questions relating to cultivated lands are regulated
by secular customs and seldom contested; but in the case of pastures
the limits are uncertain, and often the herds in crossing a stream
have aroused bloody disputes between two neighboring tribes.

In the valley a small river separates the territory of the Maméches
from that of the Mefghurs. When I traveled there in 1890, I no-
ticed on the right and left the ruins of many villages situated about
200, 500, and 1,000 meters from this boundary river, while the inhab-
ited villages were nearly 2 kilometers distant. This disposition
attracted my notice, and asking persons about it I quickly learned
the reason why these villages had been abandoned. The interests of
two tribes, in war for some centuries, are the more secure the nearer
they are to the frontier, the villages playing the role of watch posts.
The Maméches and Mefighurs had therefore built as close as possible
to the stream, but beyond the range of the arrows drawn on the oppo-
site side of the river. But firearms one fine day made their appear-
ance among the nomads and the projectiles killed enemies in the
houses. They were then obliged to widen the neutral zone and to
place the frontier posts farther away; then, the range of arms in-
creasing, they moved to a still greater distance. To-day the Kurds
consider that about 2 kilometers interval gives shelter from the
enemy’s bullets.

They told me many incidents about the war between the Maméches
and Mefighurs, and listening with pleasure to all these stories of the
past I thought that these people should not be so stupid as to kill one
another because of troubles reaching back for centuries, maybe thou-
sands of years, the origin of which they would necessarily be ignorant.
Now, one evening as I talked of the Maméches in the tent of the agha,
TI saw a man enter with his white cotton trousers covered with blood.
He was a chief who had avenged the honor of his tribe; he had killed
a Mefighur shepherd without defense. It would not be difficult to
find other Maméches and other Mefighurs in the part of Kurdistan
extending from the valley of Revanduz as far as Kermanshah and
Zohab. All the districts shelter some small tribes of this people,
more or less savage, more or less pillagers, and living outside the
world under the direction of their hereditary chiefs; but they all
look alike and differ only in the dialects in which they converse.

The south of Kurdistan and Luristan are divided among a great
number of khans, who, without being absolutely free financially,
enjoy none the less all the privileges of feudalism. These are the
khans of Kialhurs, of Kérind, of Djafis, of Ghilan, of Avroman,
etc. But I shall not delay to speak of these, but will come at
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

once to the tribes the most free in all Persia, to those inhabiting
southern Luristan toward the Ab-é-Diz River, between Khoramabad
and the Susiana (Khuzistan) plain on one side, and on the other
side between the frontiers of the Bakhtiyari and the eastern branch
of the Dirfoul River.

It is in this region that in summer dwell the Seghvends, Direk-
vends, Bairanvends, and Hissavends. It is there between the Ab-é-
Diz River and the Madian Rud that they sow their wheat; then
when cold weather begins to be felt, they go by short journeys toward
the valley of the Séin-Méré River? to reach Arabistan and eastern
Pusht-i-Kuh.

In these Seghvend tribes there are many khans, but only one high
chief. The others, who are his counselors and his vassals, all belong
to his family. The high chief represents the elder branch and
controls the most rayats and the largest herds. The others come
next, being the richer and more esteemed, the nearer their relation-
ship to the khan. Everything is done with common consent—the
farming, the changing of pastures, the choice of place for the camp,
the plundering of a weaker neighboring tribe or of a caravan cross-
ing the country—and it is with common consent also that they refuse
to pay rent to the King, when they importune the governor of the
Province in his city, when they rob officials on the road and even
entire regiments in the course of the journey.

I have held very close and cordial relations with the Seghvends,
for each year they come with their herds as far as Susa, and I have
employed hundreds of them as workmen during the last 15 years.

It is a very interesting sight when ten or twelve thousand nomads
arrive on our plains pushing before them forty or fifty thousand
head of cattle. The invasion of the Huns in western Europe must
have presented the same aspect as this crowd spread out under the
walls of our chateau. It is a wave of animals loaded or free, of
men on horseback or foot, of women carrying their little children on
their backs, leading others by the hand, loaded with cooking uten-
sils, with spinning wheel or loom. Sheep, cows, horses, donkeys,
men and women, children, and dogs make a frightful sound to hear,
and the noise increases as the torrent ebbs and flows, and soon there
is only a roaring wave. On the right, the left, some groups stop, the
cattle and the mules are unburdened and the tents are set up. Some
blue fumes sifted from the hair of the tent cloths spread out in long
lines pushed by the breeze. In an instant all the brushwood of the
country is cut to make pens for sheep, setting for the tents, for a
great heap to feed the fires. Then the herds are spread out and
cover the plain, while the men circle among them guarding them,

iThis river bears three names: Gamas in its upper part, Kerkhah in its middle por-
tion, and Séin-Méré when it passes into the plain of Arabistan,
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 597

watching the horizon, while the women go for wood and water, or
wash their miserable rags.

In the midst of the groups of tents you easily distinguish the home
of the chiefs. Some horsemen emerging from it go and come from
one group to another, making endless visits on business.

In a few days all the herbage of the region is eaten up. Then the
tents are struck and the camps reset some miles away; there are left
in the plain only the yellow spots on the site of the camps, piles of
cut wood, burned sticks marking the fire places, some wooden feed-
ing troughs, where the horses and mares of the rich ones had eaten
grain brought from the mountain.

But there are complaints from the neighboring Arabs about water
questions or thefts committed by the Seghvends. They dispute
without agreement; and shortly shots start in the pla. From one
side and the other buffaloes and sheep are stolen; soon the fight
becomes general, and all night you hear the fusillade mingled with
' the barking of dogs, from time to time firearms flash in the darkness,
now and then there are some wounded and dead. But these incidents
are of hardly any consequence, for one day the chief of a neighboring
tribe brought me to attend his brother and two of his men severely
injured, and his mare whose neck was pierced by a bullet. The fate
of this beast concerned him much more than that of the men. “And
my mare,” he kept saying to me incessantly, while I thought of the
wounds of his brother.

The rumor spread that the governor was sending some troops to
collect the taxes. In an instant hostilities ceased, the Arabs retired
towards Lower Kerkhah. The Seghvends struck their tents, and
crossing the ford of the river came into another Province to seek
pastures on the frontiers of Mesopotamia far enough from Persian
authorities to insure freedom from taxes which they do not wish
to pay.

There they ran their heads against Arab tribes of the Béni-Lams,
Bairanvends, and Direkvends, their congeners, and the shots flew
again. Finally, hot weather returning, they quit the dry plains, and
slowly as they had come retraced the road to Khormabad and the
summer pastures.

The men carry on war, are occupied with their cattle and horses,
knit their woolen socks, and smoke. The women are employed in
household cares, carry water and wood, prepare the meals, wash their
meager possessions of family linen. Between times they spin the
wool, weave cloth for the men’s clothing, prepare dye for making
rugs, a work in which they excel, weave the great haircloth coverings
for the tents, make the horsehair ropes, and doing this watch their
children, cook the bread, make the curd, churn the butter, etc.
598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The tribe itself produces the greater part of the necessaries of life.
Wheat, barley, and tobacco are raised in summer in the mountains,
and the cattle furnish meat, cheese, milk, curd, whey, woolens, carpets,
tent cloths, ropes, ete. So that the only articles the nomads must
procure in the cities are arms, ammunition, white and red cotton-
ades worn by the men and women, salt, sugar, tea, cooking utensils,
and other manufactured articles. The pecuniary resources of the
tribe comes from the sale of wool and hair, rugs and felts, horses and
cattle; but they sell few of their herds which are used, on the contrary,
to increase them. Though these men possess all that is indispen-
sible for life, they are very poor in actual money, so that the posses-
sion of a few krans (about 10 cents) is their constant thought.

The feudal customs of these tribes are reflected to some extent in
the way in which the fellahs labor in our workshops; each shop
equipped with 50 men is headed by a Ser Kar (foreman) who,
although paid, would receive from his workmen 1 day’s wages out of
every 10. Each 10 days also another day’s wages is assigned to the
khan of whom these men are dependents and who furnishes them for
our employ. In fact these fellahs give 20 per cent of their salary to
their chiefs. I was forced to abolish this tithe and forbid it. But
since such things are done in secret. they continued as if I had said
nothing. To-day I close my eyes.

The Seghvends, through their contact with the cities of Arabistan,
and also on account of their presence for 15 years in the workshops
of Susa, are to-day much more civilized than their congeners, the
Direkvends and Bairanvends, who have their winter quarters in the
valley of the Séin-Méré. These tribes, administered the same as the
Seghvends, have been exempt from the law for many years. They
are bandits, robbing caravans and stealing from their neighbors who
are nomads like themselves; they are therefore looked upon with
disfavor throughout Luristan. One day on the route between
Khoramabad and Dizful they robbed an entire Persian regiment, the
colonel at its head, without doing other harm to any one; but they
took everything—arms, ammunition, provisions, baggage, uniforms,
horses, and mules—and little was their need for them, for it was
only in the costume of Apollo Belvedere that this valiant regiment,
with colonel ahead, made its triumphal entry into the city of Dizful,
to which it was assigned as garrison.

This unfortunate pleasantry, however, led the governor of Lur-
istan, a prince of royal blood, residing at Kermanushah, to decide
to severely punish the miscreants; but, since it costs to levy troops
for such a task, he charged the other khans heavily and required
the Vahli of Pusht-i-Kuh to make these insolents “ tchapou ” (depriv-
ing them of everything save life). As may well be believed, the

FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. 599

war drags along and the Direkvends, after having bribed the Segh-
vend chiefs, secure through gifts, freedom from disturbance by the
Vahli of Pusht-i-Kuh. I was in these mountains when the presents
were received, which included a large sum of money, some mares,
some young girls, the handsomest of the tribe of Direkvends, some
arms, and some rugs.

Were not these the presents that Asurbanipal received from petty
kings who aroused his wrath ?

The Vahli took time for reflection, and after three days’ seclusion
in his harem withdrew his troops.

These Direkvends are very deeply in debt. The tribe I have known
the longest is that of a certain Aslan-Khan living between the two
branches of the river Ab-é-Diz in a region which is a veritable chaos
of rugged mountains. In summer this personage with his men
dwelt in the mountains near the plateau, bordered on this side by
high cliffs; but when cold weather begins they leave by paths cut in
the baleony under the precipices and gain the warm valleys more to
the south. There they have their villages, their fields of rice, grain,
tobacco, and vegetables. The soil and their herds yield full abund-
ance. Within their domain are mines of salt and bitumen, and
immense forests of evergreen oak; and in the valleys all kinds of
fruits except the orange. They never need go to the cities, from
which they receive arms and ammunition from time to time. Their
blue cotton costumes of material made and woven by themselves
are exactly like those of Persians of Acheemenian times, their head-
dress is the same; their beards and hair are of the same cut. Not
a thing has changed in that country since Darius ruled the Persians,
only in their weapons do these men differ from their ancestors. In
their inaccessible refuge they have braved all kings; invasions, con-
quests, have not touched them, and if they have become Mussulmans
it is only because their neighbors having adopted that religion they
have thought it more useful for the preservation of their liberty to
follow the general movement. Elsewhere in these mountains there
is very little concern about religious beliefs and usages; the women
do not veil the face, and in general this is to the great loss of those
who see them.

The country inhabited by this tribe is admirably adapted to the
preservation of customs. It is a vast triangle bounded on the north
by mountains very difficult of access, and on the sides by rapid
rivers flowing through canyons many hundreds of meters deep. The
neighbors to the south and southeast are the Bakhtiyari, those to the
northwest and west are the Seghvends. But these people have no
relations with their congeners on the right or the left; they are not
even known by name in the neighboring tribes. They are the most
isolated beings that you can see on a continent. In 1891 I attempted
600 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

to visit this tribe, but its chief, Aslan Khan (The lion chief), dis-
suaded me in very convincing terms. Never had any man foreign to
his tribe trod the soil of his little domain and he held guard over
its secrets.

“ Thou knowest Mesched-i-Nassr,”+ he said to me. “ Well, go and
find him and tell him that he is a Péder Soukhte,? because he eats
money, and that if he wants to get any from me he must make the
search himself.”

During this conversation the followers of this prince stole the
roasting spits from my cook.

After having discussed some of the subseigniors, we will speak of
the principal ones, some real feudal princes, who, though Persians of
the twentieth century, are the same as were the dukes of Burgundy
or Brittany in France at the time of Louis XI. There are a few of
them elsewhere, the principal ones are the Vahli of Pusht-i-Kuh,
that of Bakhtiyari and the Sheik of Arabistan. The first two are
from old Iranian stock; the third is a genuine Arab Melek, a digni-
fied successor of the sovereign princes of Characéne, a country of
which he owns the greater part.

The Vahlis of Pusht-i-Kuh, that is, “back of the mountain,” or
“ outer mountain,” have been masters for some centuries of their
principality which reaches to the confines of Mesopotamia, from
the interior by a rapid river, the Séin-Méré, and a high chain of
mountains. Kebir Kuh (Mount Kebir) opens at only a few places
and like a wall protects the territories of the Vahli against incursions.
These people, few in number, thus pass their lives almost exclusively
on the slope of Mesopotamia. In summer snow and fresh pasturage
are found at Mount Kebir. In the plain below grow the date, the
orange, and the pomegranate. A day’s journey by horse brings one
from snow to the torrid heat of Mesopotamia; but it takes about six
days to cross this principality from north to south. Numerous
streams descend from Mount Kebir toward the Tigris, but without
reaching it, for the fields take possession of the waters and byte
thousand eames spread them on the lands.

Pusht-i-Kuh is situated northwest of the roads leading from
Arabistan into Iran, properly speaking,’ across Luristan and the coun-
tries of the Bakhtiyari. This country lies south of the route from
Bagdad to Hamaden,‘ through Kermanshah, and its position be-
tween two important routes of travel, as well as its frontier pro-

1Nassr ed Din Shah who having made the pilgrimage of Mesched had right to the
title of Meschedi.

2** Son of a scorched father,’”’ the highest insult of Persians.

3In olden times the royal route from Persepolis to Ctésiphon traversed the eastern
part of Pusht-i-Kuh, and one still sees traces of it in the ruins of the Sassanide-de-Pa-i-
Poul bridge over the Kerkhah, from the place called Bay&t to the frontiers of Turkey.

4This road was the one followed by the royal route from Babylon to Ecbatana
(Hamaden) ; it passed through the gorges of Zagros, where numerous traces are found.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA——-DE MORGAN, 601

tected by nature, enabled it to preserve its independence both in
ancient + times and in our day.

By the Kings of Persia, who have never placed any heavy burden
on them, these people are considered as frontier guardians and have
been favored with light taxation, the right to maintain an independ-
ent army, and have been granted many other privileges of less im-
portance. At times they are called upon to furnish auxiliary troops
for the King, and, as was formerly done by the vassals of France,
they serve by the side of the sovereign or of their marshals, com-
manding their own forces, or at least are given command; for the
vahli leaves his domains as little as possible, either because he dreads
finding a competitor on his return or through fear of being more or
less graciously detained as a hostage at court, to be released only at
the cost of ruinous gifts.

The vahli of Pusht-i-Kuh can put in the field from 1,500 to 2,000
men, infantry and cavalry. These soldiers arm, mount, and uniform
themselves; but while on a campaign they are allowed rations, money,
or partial exemption from taxes. The Government is not concerned
with these details, but the vahli meets war expenses from his own
resources, even when he carries on a campaign by order of the king.
A reduction of tribute indemnifies him in part for his expenditures.

I knew the aged vahli, Hussein Kuli Khan, very well; he was a
big, powerful man, resembling portraits on certain drachmas of the
Arsacid King Mithridates II. He was very hospitable, although he
had the reputation of being very firm and often harsh, which, how-
ever, brought him the esteem and respect of all.?

His court was made up of an administrative officer; two or three
ambassadors,® men of intelligence whom he sent on special missions;
one or two letter writers; a mullah (expounder of the law and
dogmas of Islam) whom otherwise he never saw; his brother, chief
of his cavalry, carrying the title of colonel; a certain number of
Khans at the head of his infantry; and a Jew who never left him
and whose only duty was to keep busy making’ date brandy which this
excellent vahli Mussulman drank in prodigious quantity.

1The Chaldean emperors without doubt made some campaigns in these mountains, and
I think that the tablet of Naram-Sin (Musée du Louvre, excavations of Susa) represents
an expedition of that prince in the country which to-day forms part of Pusht-i-Kuh.

2In the Hast only those are respected who inspire fear. Kindness is always considered
as a weakness and is taken advantage of at once unless some exhibition of firmness recalls
the sense of duty. Many governors have been driven out because they were too mild.

> One of these ambassadors, Kaid Khani Khan, a very intelligent young man, chief of
a tribe which he had organized himself, who died only a short time ago, had on one occa-
sion been sent in an embassy to the chief of the Beni-Lams. He finished his mission;
then taking the road for his return, met a patrol of Turkish soldiers, who found nothing
better to do than to make “‘ tchapou ’’—that is, to take away his arms, ammunition, and
baggage. This ambassador under the privileges of diplomacy had some thoughts quite
special, but otherwise this incident created no impression other than to make the vahli
laugh to tears.
602 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Pusht-i-Kuh is divided into districts parceled out among the sev-
eral tribes. Each tribe has its warm lands and its cold lands, admin-
istered by a chief who as a rule does not belong to the family of the
vahli, but is chosen by him, some descendant of old servants of his
household.

In all Pusht-i-Kuh there is not a single permanent village, the
entire life of every one being passed in tents on account of the very
mild climate of the country.

The vahli owns a winter residence near the Turkish frontier (Hus-
seinieh). The house, built in the midst of date and orange groves,
is adorned with numerous representations of massacres of wild goats,
a decoration whose origin dates back probably to the time of the
Klamite Kings of Susa.2 Another residence, much larger and built
in the mountain, was intended for summer sojourns. But it is
always hot at Pusht-i-Kuh; and since they carefully choose their
encampments for varied seasons, they obtain an equal temperature
during the 12 months of the year. Thus Hussein Kuli Kahn, always
living in a tent, his two houses fell into ruins.

I have on many occasions passed entire months at Pusht-i-Kuh and
often some weeks near the home? (Husseinabad) of this old man, who
with good reason considered me as his friend. ‘“ What a misfortune
that you can not be a Mussulman,” said he to me one day, and there
was in this remark the highest compliment, the most sincere that
could come from the mouth of a Mohammedan.

Never did Hussein Kuli Kahn come out of his harem before mid-
day. Then he mounted a horse and often invited me to accompany
him on his rides. The little troop included, besides ourselves, the
minister of the vahli, his sons, some cavalry, and a few servants, one
of whom carried the kalian * hung on the flanks of his horse, as well
as the necessary burning brasier, while another servant had in saddle-
bags the samovar ® tea, sugar, and all the apparatus for making Per-
sian tea.

We rode along for about an hour, then rested in the shade to take
tea, and the vahli began to dispose of some current business matters.
The minister read the letters recently received, Hussein Kuli Khan
dictated the replies, and taking from his pocket a small cloth bag
drew from it his seal,° which the minister immediately carefully

1The representation of the wild goat played an important role in Susian decorative art
from the most ancient times down to the Assyrian conquest.

2The goat lives in great numbers in a wild state on Mount Kébir.

8The amalah is the camp, the residence of the chief of the tribe.

4 What the Turks call ‘ naigileh,’ more common than the Persian name.

* The use of the samovar, which the Russians got from the Tartars, has spread through-
out Persia, Mesopotamia, and a great part of Turkey, as well in the homes of the nomads
among the sedentary population.

®° Among orientals the seal is equivalent to the signature; it is therefore preserved with
the greatest care.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—-DE MORGAN. 603

affixed either below or on the back? of the written page. This seal
was then returned to the vahli’s pocket.

When a difficult case was presented, they discussed it; each gave
his opinion, even the servant who had served the tea or passed the
kalian. If one of the opinions pleased the vahli, he adopted it and
dictated his reply accordingly; if not, he opened the Koran at any
page whatever and according to the word at the angle of the first
page, that on the right side, consequently, he settled the business or
else postponed it till the morrow, the drawing by lot having con-
vinced him that this particular day was not propitious for settling
such an affair. Or else, counting a certain number of beads of his
rosary, he would toss up for a decision.

St. Louis judging under his oak tree was certainly not grander
than this new incarnation of Mithridates II dispensing justice in
the open air, taking for his counselors all those who surrounded him,
listening to all complaints, all demands, all requests, familiarly con-
versing with the most humble of his rayats or serfs. This sight gave
me really a broad idea of primitive institutions among the Iranian
peoples. The audience ended, Hussein Kuli Khan felt the need of
quenching his thirst, and a servant approaching very ceremoniously
offered him a large silver cup holding at least a pint of liquid, which
the vahli emptied at one draught; it was brandy.

We returned from the ride; the vahli talked no more, retired into
his tent, and slept until evening; then he dined with his wives, again
took some brandy, and showed no more signs of life until the next
day.

When I arrived at Pusht-i-Kuh, Hussein Kuli Kahn promptly
sent a troop of cavalry to meet me, its military band equipped with
flute and tambourine fastened at the saddlebows. It was in this
parade, in the midst of mares that made my horse rear, that I was
conducted to the site chosén for my camp. Scarcely had I put foot to
the ground when a crowd of domestics arrived, the chief ahead, car-
rying some plates loaded with fruits and other refreshments. Then
the visits began. Hussein Kuli Kahn first sent his sons or his min-
ister to learn the state of my health, and, about an hour later, having
made inquiry of the vahli through my chief servant as to what hour
he could conveniently receive me, I went to his tent and remained
there about 15 minutes. An hour later, as the agreement willed,
Hussein Kuli Kahn came in his turn to my camp not without re-
questing an hour when I would repeat my visit. Then I made some
presents of money to all his servants, each receiving according to

1The king places his seal at the top of his firmans and at the bottom of his letters;
on a special writing to his equal he puts it on the back of the paper facing the last word

he wrote; to place it at the foot of the written page would indicate to the receiver that
he was considered as his servant.
604 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

his position near his master, and the vahli charged his minister to
do the same to my attendants.

I then sent to the vahli by my head servant the presents brought
from Paris for his sake, chiefly some arms inlaid with gold or silver.
The same day or the next morning he sent to me by his head equerry
a very fine horse.

These ceremonies finished, etiquette was ended, and we afterwards
met only in the most familiar manner. His sons, his minister, often
came to see me, and I made it a point always to return their visits.
T talked with them about a thousand things of the country. I asked
them about their habits, the people, the politics of the tribes, and
they asked me details about Europe. In 1896 Hussein Kuli Kahn
gave me for a guide in his country an old equerry long in his service.
In 1904 I asked to see this man. He had become a paralyzed old
man, so that they had to carry him to my camp.

They talked much at Pusht-i-Kuh of the recollection that Eu-
ropeans preserve of services that have been rendered them, while
among the nomads a man is forgotten from the day when there is
nothing more to expect from him.

On the death of Hussein Kuli Kahn his elder son, the conqueror
of the Direkvends, of whom we spoke above, succeeded him by right,
but the younger son for many years would not agree to serve under
the authority of his brother. He withdrew to his domain of Hou-
leilan? and went to war against the new vahli, as at the time when
the sons of one of the Arsacide disputed the throne after his death.
Finally, the two brothers were reconciled, peace was restored in
Pusht-i-Kuh, and, as formerly, all was ruled there according to
feudal traditions.

Other Iranian high seigniors are the vahlis of the Bakhtiyari,
whose tribes occupy all the country between Ispahan and Shuster, be-
tween the river Ab-é-Diz and the vicinity of Bender Buchir. They
are the principal vassals of the kings of Persia. The organization of
their tribes is the same as at Pusht-i-Kuh, except that the Bakhtiyari
army can put in the field from fifteen to twenty thousand men; and
the khans as well as the vahlis of this country, coming in frequent
contact with the Persians of Ispahan and with Europeans, are much
more intelligent than the seigniors of Luristan. Many go to Eu-
rope, some speak English or French, which, however, does not hin-
der them from adhering just as closely as my friends of Pusht-i-Kuh
to the old feudal institutions.

The tribes of Bakhtiyari are to-day the soul of Persia, because they
are powerful and well governed. To be sure, there are some frac-

1A district in the valley of the Séin-Méré to the north of Pusht-i-Kuh which Hussein

Kuli Khan had bought for his younger son, foreseeing that his succession inyolyed some
difficulties between his children.
FEUDALISM IN PERSIA—DE MORGAN. . 605

tions of this people whose morals and instincts are still very barbar-
ous; it would be surprising not to meet such a class in so vast a terri-
tory. But in general there reigns among them a strict discipline,
which singularly contrasts with what we found in Kurdistan and
Luristan.

These countries, it seems, have always been very nearly independ-
ent. All that can be positively stated, however, is that the tribes
which live there to-day occupied the country under the Achzemenide,
but nothing hinders the thought.

The royal route which connected Persepolis with Babylon crossed
the country now occupied by the Bakhtiyari, and we know that the
Great King himself paid a tax to tribes of these mountains when he
passed over their lands. The khans were even then seignors of much
importance. We made a short visit to a high Arab seignior, El
Mohammerah, a powerful Gharal chief. We found him in his palace
built on the bank of the Persian river Chatt-El-Arab, in honor of
Mohammerah, below Basrah. He is an amiable man, keen eyed, in-
telligent, very polite. He keeps abreast of all that occurs both in
Europe and in Luristan, at Teheran, and among all the tribes of
Mesopotamia.

Sheik Ghazal is one of the richest land proprietors. He personally
owns immense domains both in Persia and Turkey, and all the sheiks
of Arabistan recognize his supremacy, which is in a measure felt
likewise by the armies. He is a veritable Malkim Malek, controlling
an important treasury, a numerous army, steamboats—in fact, every-
thing that can bring wealth, intelligence, and power. English boats
salute him with cannon, and from ashore he returns the salute with
his own artillery. No one would dare touch the Sheik Ghazal, who
smiles at revolutions and at the fall of sovereigns. He is king in
fact—what cares he for those who are such only in name?

As one may judge from the preceding pages, the feudal seigniors
still play an extremely important role in the Persian Empire. Their
power is great, for the spirit of nearly the entire nation still rests in
feudalism.

If we leave the domains of the seigniors and enter the cities in the
very heart of Persia, we find there among the merchants and the
artisans the same kinds of corporations and all the institutions that
prevailed in France in the Middle Ages—the tithe from gain for the
clergy, immunity of beneficiaries of the church, and many other
privileges which formerly existed among us.

Persia to-day represents what France was before Richelieu, that
period when for the security of the Crown it was necessary to achieve
the work of Louis XI, to demantle the great forests, to crush the
remains of feudalism.
606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

This feudalism is always very powerful in Ivan; it has deep roots.
That is what we wish to show in this study. It would have been
easy to cite a much greater number of examples, to conduct the
reader to the homes of hundreds of begs, aghas, or khans; but we
have judged it futile to enter into such numerous details. A few
types are enough to show how Persian feudalism was born, how it
traversed the various phases of life of the empire on which it de-
pends and, finally, how it is still maintained in our day. You will
pardon me for having cited some personal incidents. It has been
done to offer some proof of my story, and most of these incidents are
of a nature to enable the reader to judge more clearly of the mentality
of the people discussed.

Ine Rousse (Corse), February 12, 1912.
SHINTOISM AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE.

By K. KaNoxKoet,
Bachelor of Divinity, Master of Arts, Tokyo, Japan.

1. HISTORICAL SKETCH.

In mythical antiquity when as yet nature and mankind, mankind
and the gods were viewed as unseparated, a people landed on the
island of Kiushu, in the southwest part of Japan. Scholars differ
concerning the racial affinity of that people; some would assign it
to the Malay race, others to the Mongol, while still others to the
Phenician or even the Greco-Roman race.

This people seems to have been superior to all others who had
previously settled in Japan. It was at all events conscious of its
power and imbued with the divine right to rule Japan. Ama-terasu,
“the Heaven-shining one,” the fair, mild, bright, victorious sun
goddess, was its diety, and of whom it was the offspring. According
to the Japanese myth this sun goddess sent her offspring from the
celestial realm to the land of Japan there to establish order and
dominion: “The land of Japan, the Middle Kingdom, the rich rice
field is the land where my offspring shall rule.” This was her word
and command.

But somewhat prior to this people another race, likewise powerful
and civilized, had settled, not in the southwestern island, but in the
northwestern part of the principal island of Japan, in the coast land
of the Japanese Sea—in Idzumo. This people rapidly spread and,
at the time of the arrival of the children of the Sun, had nearly
subjected the whole of the principal island with the exception of its
northeastern portion. It is quite certain that this people, whom we
shall here call the “ Idzumo,” was closely related to the Koreans, and
on that account alone was it superior to numerous other peoples. The
affinity of the Idzumo with the Mongols can not be established with
certainty, but it is probably very close. Whether it belongs to the
same race as the Sun offspring is still an open question.

The disposition and the character of both peoples are different ;
there is especially noticeable a great difference in their religious con-
Leipzig, Johann Ambrosius Barth, 1912, pp. 57-70.

607
608 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ceptions. The tribal deity of the Sun offspring, as already indicated,
is the sun; the princes very frequently bear names in which the word
“sun” (Japanese, 17) is contained. The disposition of this people
is serene, bright, one might say tropical in the good sense. The char-
acter is indescribeably fine, brave, aristocratic.

On the other hand, the tribal deity of the Idzumo is a god of the
storm, the clouds, and the sea, vehement, wrathful, and angry. The
disposition of this people is somber; the character is more practical
than aristocratic. Life’s happiness and enjoyment were more es-
teemed by them than governing power and brilliant deeds of valor.

Under such conditions the Sun people found a rival in the Idzumo.
The land, which was considered to be its mission and divine right to
govern, it found in the control of others. With an amazing sense of
its right and might, it sent a messenger to the Idzumo demanding
the right of government from the rival. As might be expected, the
Idzumo refused to comply. A second message was sent in vain.
Thereupon the Sun people dispatched its brave general with a fleet
and ordered the demand repeated. Some small skirmishes ensued. .
But the Idzumo were of a practical turn and eschewed the sufferings
and inconveniences of war. And thus, on the condition that the Sun
people allow the court of the _Idzumo government to continue in its
former splendor, the dominion over the land was surrendered to the
Sun people.

But the island of Kiushu, where the Sun people had settled, is
situated at the southwestern end of Japan, which is very inconven-
ient for the fortification of an empire and the subjection of the
entire country. Several generations passed away in small, insignifi-
cant quarrels with the surrounding tribes. Then there arose a great
and mighty movement. Prince Kan-Iware, of the Sun people, left
the place of his birth, the home of his forefathers, and set out with
his warriers in ships for the land of the Middle Kingdom. There
he fought with various tribes; with the native, hairy Ainu as well
as with the vassals of the Idzumo. The sun was his tutelary deity.
He fought in the firm belief in his right and the protection of his
ancestress and in the end succeeded in establishing an empire in the
center of the principal island of Japan. This Kan-Iware is the first
Emperor of Japan—the Emperor Jimmu. He is assumed to have
founded his throne in 660 B. C.

2. DEFINITION OF SHINTO.

The word “ Shinto” means the “ way of the gods ”—that is, the
doctrine of the gods—and was coined in the sixth century A. D.,
when Buddhism was introduced into Japan from Korea, in contrast
to “ Butsudo,” the way of the Buddhas. Thus, the word originally
denoted the entire native religion of Japan. In the course of time
SHINTOISM—-KANOKOGI. 609

Shinto underwent a certain, if small, development; in the eighteenth
century, following its renaissance, Shinto assumed a pronounced
color and definite form and characteristically pure spirit. Some
foreign investigators overlook this fact and include every supersti-
tion as it accumulates in popular life under the name of Shinto. By
treating Shintoism in this manner one can never hope to reach its
core and find its real significance. Suppose an enlightened China-
man, educated in the positivistic Confucian philosophy, was travel-
ing for his education in Europe, and without any knowledge of
Christian theology or European philosophy and science, should
merely peep into the churches and overhear people talk on the street.
He would hear many a superstition and see many strange, magically
conceived actions. If this Chinaman should group all these super-
stitions, mystical rites, and magical actions together and bestow upon
them all the name of “ Christianity ” and on that account refuse it as
a religion, would he be right? Certainly not. But that was done by
a writer who with great pains collected every crude superstition in
Japan and incorporated them in his work without order or system
and without distinguishing between the noble and the base, the
essential and the apparent, the permanent and the transitory. We
shall, therefore, here try to bring out the essence, the kernel, of
Shintoism, referring to the superstitions only in so far as they stand
in any relation to the central part.

3. THE RELIGION OF SHINTO.

The background of Shintoism is nature religion. In this sphere
there is hardly any distinction between nature and man, between man
the gods. Mankind is nothing more than a part of nature and nature
is but expanded mankind. Mountains, forests, rivers, and the sea, as
also the sun and moon, are gods. Even the countries are the off-
spring of a divine pair. In the beginning there was a divine couple.
Before the gods themselves were born this divine couple had brought
forth the Japanese islands; the birth of the gods came afterwards.
These gods are mostly nature gods—gods of the winds, the storm,
rain, fire, field, fountain, etc. Man beheld a god in everything that
struck his childlike, inexperienced, groping eye as strange—in every-
thing that appeared to his helpless state as great and powerful, that
in his hard struggle for existence was helpful. It was probably after
a long period that man learned to distinguish between the indwelling
spirit and the external object. The Japanese word for god is Kami,
which merely means “ above,” “ the above one.” Thus, the chief of a
small clan calls himself “a god of the land.” All princes and rulers
call themselves kami; that is, gods.

Already in this stage of religious development it is seen how inti-
mately religion is connected with life, with its preservation and

44863°—sm 1913-39
610 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

expansion. Man fears the mighty phenomena of nature, but he can
befriend them. The inner impulse of all living beings to preserve
and increase life impelled man to draw to himself all that was helpful
in nature, to embrace it, and to enter into a permanent covenant with
it by means of all those sacred rites as primitive man knew them.
The instinctive desire after more, the craving after the great and
sublime, generated religion in mankind. Deep at the bottom of such
primeval life, I believe we must look for the true psychological and
at the same time the metaphysical root of religion, and, in particular,
of Shintoism.

In this stage of religious development the Japanese people was
found when the first emperor, Jimmu, already known to us, accom-
plished his splendid conquest. As has already been said, this people
allied itself to the Sun goddess and called itself the offspring of that
deity, and the later Japanese veneration of the emperors has its ori-
gin in this. The political change also brought about a religious
revolution. The religion of the Idzumo, in which nature-worship
plaved the foremost part, and the religion of the Sun people, in
which hero-worship predominated over nature-worship, met and
united. The hero-worship of the victorious ones was not able to
drive out the nature-worship of the conquered people; of many
reasons for this only one may be mentioned here. The successors of
the great Jimmu were not strong men. They achieved neither ex-
pansion of the imperial power nor of civilization. Only after the
lapse of about four centuries is an energetic emperor again on the
scene, who, for the first time in the history of Japan, created a system
of taxation and dug ponds for irrigating works, and started expedi-
tions to unknown northeastern regions. Unfortunately a pestilence
broke out among the men, claiming thousands of victims. In the
course of centuries just elapsed the enterprising, energetic life has
sunk, and with it also the religion. It is not astonishing then that
we see the cause of the misfortune ascribed to the anger of the gods,
particularly the gods of the subjugated Idzumo. Hence there fol-
lowed a restoration of the forgotten gods. Numerous temples were
erected to these gods and abundant sacrifices were offered to them.
The defeated gods experienced a revival. The spirit of the con-
quered people avenged itself on its conquerors, becoming their
spiritual rulers. A strange mixture. Even at present the two strains
(sharply separable) can be discerned in Shintoism. There are two
principal Shinto shrines, one at Ise, where Ama-terasu, the Sun
goddess is worshipped, and the other at Idzumo, where Onamuchi,
the former rival of the Sun goddess, is venerated. These two strains
must be kept clearly in view for a better understanding of Shintoism.
The Idzumo influence of nature-worship forms the background of the
SHIN TOISM—-KANOKOGI. 611

world conception of the Shinto religion, while the influence of Ise
supplies in hero-worship the active spirit of Shinto.

Shintoism survived in simple, pure form till the sixth century.
Scarcely any distinction was made between priests and laymen, be-
tween the holy and the profane—in contrast to the Hindus and the
ancient Gauls. The administration of the state, the governing was eo
ipso religious worship. The Japanese word for “ governing,” matsu-
rigoto, is derived from Matsuru, “ worship.” Thus among the ancient
Japanese, governing and worship were identical. The religious cere-
monies were consequently very simple. The greatest and most im-
portant ceremony is the purification, which takes place twice every
year. The impurity and sins of the entire people are cleansed
through a solemn prayer and ceremony. It recalls the Jewish scape-
goat. But the ethical aspect is different; in contrast with the com-
plex, already far advanced ethical conceptions and the rigorous idea
of atonement in the later Jewish religion, here is still found a naive,
simple, and childlike ethical thought with a like simple idea of atone-
ment. In the primitive Shinto religion uncleanliness and sin are
identical conceptions.

Here we may find place for the table of the so-called heavenly
sins and earthly sins from the old ritual of purification.

1. The heavenly sins:

Making of breaches in rice-field dams.

Interfering with the irrigation of rice fields.

Cranks interfering with agriculture.

Skinning of live animals backward.

Defiling ritually clean places with excrements.

2. Earthly sins:

Wounding of the body (because the blood was considered by the
ancient Japanese unclean).

Desecration of a corpse.

Unusual bodily affections, such as albinism and excrescences.

Incest and sodomy.

Killing of other people’s animals.

Witchcraft.

Plagues inflicted by the gods as punishment, such as snake bites,
lightning stroke, ete.

This Shinto morality may be divided into three spheres:

1. Morals in relation to common property, i. e., peasants’ morals.

2. Morals of the ritual.

3. The recoil from the unclean and unnatural, a genuine tabu
morality. This constituted the origin of ritual morality.

We do not meet with a morality in our sense; what we find is,
however, not immorality, but childlike naiveté. But it can easily
612 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

be seen that in aversion to the unclean and the abnormal, in conjunc-
tion with the ritual morality, there lies the germ of the idea of evil
which, when it implies a social morality, must bring about a full
development of the idea of evil and with this also the problem of
conscience.

Like the morality, so the cult of Shintoism was also simple. Sim-
plicity and cleanliness were always valued by it. Thus, its temple
was and is exceedingly simple. This tendency to simplicity and
cleanliness not infrequently led to conservatism. It was the con-
stantly recurring endeavor of Shintoism to restore the so-called age
of the gods, or at least to preserve as much as possible its form, man-
ner, and custom. ’

The temple usually consists of two small houses. One, standing in
front, is the prayer hall; the other is the sanctuary. The representa-
tion of the god usually consists of a round mirror, but often also of
a sword, a jewel, etc., which, according to tradition, originated in the
age of the gods. Shintoism proper knows no images. Where such
are found with it, it is due to foreign influence, particularly to the
Hindu and Chinese.

4. LATHER FORTUNES OF SHINTO.

For a better understanding, there may be briefly mentioned in this
connection some prominent facts from the history of Japan.

In the fifth century Confucianism came from Korea to Japan.
The Japanese gladly adopted continental culture and the Chinese
characters (letters). Confucianism came in its simple form—as a
code of morals, as the science of the state, as an educational force—
and comported well with Shintoism. But when in the following
century Buddhism entered, likewise from Korea, affairs in Japan
were different. Very soon Buddhism, by reason of its profound doc-
trines and the splendor of its cult, won the favor of some of the
prominent courtiers. The chasm between Shintoism and Buddhism
was too wide for a reconciliation between them; conflict was unavoid-
able. As a religion Shintoism could not compare with Buddhism.
Shintoism, notwithstanding its stubborn resistance, had to give way.
But the triumph of Buddhism was not a complete one. The promi-
nent Buddhists had to stoop to declare the native gods as manifesta-
tions of the Buddha. Im this manner arose the so-called “ Riobu-
Shinto ’—that is, the mixed Shinto. This condition continued for
about a thousand years, to the injury of both religions. Only as late
as the beginning of the eighteenth century did Shintoism begin to
exhibit signs of a renewed life. But this movement was a theoretical
one, called into life by certain scholars. Their war cry was: Back
to the age of the gods, away from the foreign and alien influences and
culture. Not only Buddhism, but Confucianism also, was violently
SHIN TOISM—KANOKOGI. 613

attacked. One of these scholars went so far as to even assert: “The
ancient Japanese had no moral theory whatever, because they were
in no need of one, since their natural disposition was moral, while
the naturally wicked Chinese needed a moral system.” With the re-
vival of Shintoism there appeared another powerful factor, the idea
of the divine right of the imperial house. By emphasizing this idea
this purely theoretical movement promoted the restoration of 1868.

5. THE SOCIOLOGICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF
SHINTOISM.

After what has been said in the preceding pages, it must be ad-
mitted that Shintoism represents rather a low stage of religion. It
has in comparison, for instance, with Judaism, experienced but a
slight development. Two reasons may be assigned for this fact:
First, the Japanese were on the whole little exposed to external
dangers in the struggle for existence. If religion is related to the
preservation and expansion of life, it may be concluded that a people
living in a continuously keen and perilous struggle for existence,
and none the less able not only to preserve but also to expand its
life, would also in its own way raise its religion to the highest degree
of development. The Jewish people present a good instance. It
lived in perpetual danger, and yet by dint of its wonderful vitality
it was enabled not only to preserve its existence but also to be re-
spected as a power. On the other hand, the Japanese as a whole
were beset by little danger. Thus it came to pass that Shintoism was
not hardened and strengthened as Judaism was. As a second rea-
son for the slight development of Shintoism must be considered
the intruding of agnostic Confucianism and pantheistic Buddhism.
The native religion and the highly developed foreign religions dif-
fered both in kind and in degree. One could not by degrees advance
from Shintoism to Buddhism and Confucianism. A radical break
was required. The religiously disposed minds abandoned their gods
and followed the more profound and powerful teaching. Shintoism
was forsaken by its best children and remained lonely and poor—a
veritable mater dolorosa!

Notwithstanding this, Shintoism has survived to the present day
and still exhibits a certain vitality. This is a miracle. How, one
might ask, can such an apparently low form of religion continue its
very existence amidst a people that has been nourished on the lofty
conceptions of life and the universe of Buddhism and on the pure and
elevated morals of Confucianism? Shintoism is certainly a very
remarkable religious and sociological phenomenon.

But, as it has already been pointed out, Shintoism beheld in all
the great, wonderful, mighty, and sublime phenomena of nature, as
well as of man, its gods and worshipped them. Everything that was
614 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

something more or had something more than the usual, whether a
natural thing or a human being, was worshipped as a god. Shinto-
ism is originally the religion of the “plus” (more). It was des-
tined to comprise in itself the preservation and expansion of the
national life. As such it has its roots deep in the dark soil of the
instinctive, constantly expanding life. It grew up with the national |
life. It is a real, germane child of the blood of the national life.
Herein lies the difference between Shintoism and Judaism. The
Jewish people were adopted by Jahveh, while the Japanese religion
grew up from the very beginning with the people. Shintoism is no
accession; it is interwoven with the life of the people. It exists
among its people in a diffused, not concentrated manner. It is there-
fore not noticed under usual circumstances. If Shintoism has any
concern at all, it is the well-being of the nation in general. There-
fore only in times of danger or of a crisis in national life is Shinto-
ism seen in a pure form and with its original vitality. Patriotism is
Shintoism’s own favorite child. To the Japanese patriotism means
something more than it does to other peoples. Through its associa-
tion with so many heroic and noble deeds and events which took place
in the course of more than two millenniums patriotism gains a pro-
found and exquisite, in short, a religious but not fanatical, signifi-
cance. A few examples may illustrate this.

It was immediately after the naval battle on the Sea of Japan that
I, at that time a young lieutenant, asked one of my men: “ What
have you been thinking of during the battle? Have you been afraid
of death, or have you thought of it at all?” He answered: “ No,
Lieutenant, I had no thought either of life or of death, nor any fear.
One thought only was strong in me, and that was to do my duty
perfectly, and the only fear that I had was that I might commit an
error.” I observed through the simplicity of his narrative that he
told what he really felt. This man saw in the service of the father-
land all that was precious. The service of the fatherland was for
him the highest worship.

It was, if I remember aright, on the eve before the battle of Muk-
den. An adjutant was looking for Gen. Kodama, chief of staff, to
whom he had a message to deliver. The adjutant went into the
quarters of the general, but the latter was not in. He looked for
him through the entire camp, but the general was not to be seen.
Finally, the adjutant going to the rear of the camp came to the
woods, and-there he saw the general in the attitude of prayer, his
face turned toward the setting sun. Later he was asked what he
meant by all this, for he was supposed to be an educated atheist
without religion. He answered simply: having done everything that
in his opinion would assure victory, there remained nothing to be
done but to invoke the help of the higher power.
SHIN TOISM—KANOKOGI. 615

In certain crises of life, when fate places before us an absolute
demand, the fulfillment of which transcends our strength, man
gathers up all his power and does what he can, He comes at the end
of his strength; it does not reach further and still he hears the call
of the absolute demand. The void stretches out all around him.
The heavy atmosphere charged with the cold, silent, threatening fate
weighs upon him. There is to be found no ladder, no wings to make
use of; and yet this incessant resounding call of higher command!
What remains for man to do but to cross the border line of his own
strength and to invoke and appropriate unknown higher powers
whether it be the cold, indifferent fate or sympathetic personal gods!

Thus we have here the belief in higher powers—religion. The call
of duty is heard outside, beyond; but it does not come from the out-
side, but from within, from life itself. The demand has its root
deep in life itself, hence its categorical imperative.

From what has been said we may draw the conclusion that so long
as the nations of the world compete with one another in raising
armies and building navies, so long as mere might, violence, and
brutality determine the fate of a nation—so long will Shintoism sur-
vive and fulfill its task as the protecting genius of the people.

* & * * * % *

6. SHINTOISM MUST NOT BECOME A POSITIVE RELIGION.

The influence of Shintoism on the Japanese Nation is a good one
when as a force it is diffused through the life of the people, but
would become fatal if it should be concentrated, fossilized as it were,
and assume a definite, sharply defined form after the manner of
other positive religions. Diffused, Shintoism is an active force im-
pelling the nation forward, as an ardent love of the fatherland and
of the whole. From this flow all virtues: altruism, sacrifice, loyality,
etc. But concentrated it would become a contemptible chauvinism
and turning its back on the whole would sink to a narrow provincial-
ism, fettering the nation in its cultural endeavors and obstructing
its onward and forward march. By this it would forfeit its mission
and its life. For its lift—the longing for more—would be lost.
It would thus sacrifice its most precious possession to a pitiful for-
mula and commit a miserable suicide. It would be a corpse, loathing
and noxious to the same people whose well-being was once its only
concern.
aamtis! oa sbi oe ceare seb
at git onder sheaths bilins ity stew bey iE
beflans bi anasto van. rolrtiod ‘cin ni downer 2 lee ry

F a ae eithit ede
reed: Soreitibeesinvod sali. aohy) fa

Sarr sit pee aiiers dott eben |
soma Sasi” Syarutivabs: (gtk) \ bhpate: atikiadret: ata
Re ny a. teh grrudilltyss: haere ie oti Beg
faiea bce" nel noggin 20100: ait ab pn ov heel ad
Seals gl ek ci88 icin tinab etageiiont blames sath tenant poe yee
Piavanlot? Adylin ysses giil-oz extras AiaN seth
eS | pedinetuniete otek: ane
fe St Cs Ae ine ae ad tt lle en TREE |S
Bere pass ee ae a os Peg ts puta eh aay Sabie: ipa
cs ae i ee ef an a " eect aca bots 8
; Bit AQT, Hast SS HOS: i neceiee nO TM enone Biers age,
heed fri i ele ean its gee ian vinnie tel
qnsyy sat oil ging t. pao ob ei ame
anh De bsktinnos ae a i st hints 1042 ee Sa
apie Sirsa iit es Ne wae Ti

pation tie pee na hieuslicy 237 at pollen atey
oveahin'att oe wiih me genapir
dol ok Shain —Saenite” figetol ‘9A —TTE Ne

SOF tuibiicg” ‘e yet
Ggietifinal aces ‘
ite. 4 Anh Te

mp, pach ae Li Mea 3 RE eae ane ae py er
be 4 ie fi aets hie wales bss. oe. ‘ae hea ee ee
ad Gee een bie ‘Sy ire is oe Sot A — APS ‘aE ey, an , -
pithol eehiaahac. He tiaaaeniee As, > lg rey
8h aR Ras: 8a a PRs ‘thew ys anneal el
erin: Specie a; chips em Vo eda pee
THE MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT IN
HELLENIC LIFE.

By ArTHUR J. EVANS.

[With 8 plates.]

In his éoncluding address to this society our late president re-
marked that he cared more for the products of the full maturity of
the Greek spirit than for its immature struggles, and this preference
for fruits over roots is likely to be shared by most classical scholars.
The prehistoric civilization of the land which afterwards became
Hellas might indeed seem far removed from the central interests of
Greek culture, and it was only with considerable hesitation that I
accepted, even for a while, the position in which the society has placed
me. Yet I imagine that my presence in this chair is due to a feeling
on its part that what may be called the embryological department has
its place among our studies.

Therefore I intend to take advantage of my position here to-day
to say something in favor of roots, and even of germs. These are
the days of origins, and what is true of the higher forms of animal
life and functional activities is equally true of many of the vital
principles that inspired the mature civilization of Greece—they can
not be adequately studied without constant reference to their anterior
stages of evolution. Such knowledge can alone supply the key to the
root significance of many later phenomena, especially in the domain
of art and religion. It alone can indicate the right direction along
many paths of classical research. Amidst the labyrinth of conjecture
we have here an Ariadné to supply the clue. And who, indeed, was
Ariadné herself but the great goddess of Minoan Crete in her Greek
adoptive form qualified as the most holy ?

“The chasm,” remarks Prof. Gardner, “ dividing prehistoric from
historic Greece is growing wider and deeper.”? In some respects
perhaps—but looking at the relations of the two as a whole I venture
to believe that the scientific study of Greek civilization is becoming

1From the address of the president delivered to the Hellenic Society, June, 1912.
Reprinted by permission from The Journal of Hellenic Studies, London, vol. 32, pt. 2,
1912, pp. 277-297.

Ate Eva ste SRL (OT) Sp. ix:

617
618 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

less and less possible without taking into constant account that of the
Minoan and Mycenaean world that went before it.

The truth is that the old view of Greek civilization as a kind of
“enfant de miracle” can no longer be maintained. Whether they
like it or not, classical students must consider origins. One after an-
other the “ inventions ” attributed by its writers to the later Hellas
are seen to have been anticipated on Greek soil at least a thousand
years earlier. Take a few almost at random: The Aeginetan claim
to have invented sailing vessels, when such already plowed the
Aegean and the Libyan seas at the dawn of the Minoan age; the
attribution of the great improvement in music, marked by the seven-
stringed lyre, to Terpander of Lesbos in the middle of the seventh
century B. C.—an instrument played by the long-robed Cretan priests
of Hagia Triada some 10 centuries before, and, indeed, of far earher
Minoan use. At least the antecedent stage of coinage was reached
long before the time of Pheidon, and the weight standards of Greece
were known ages before they received their later names.

Let us admit that there may have been reinventions of lost arts.
Let us not blink the fact that over a large part of Greece darkness for
a time prevailed. Let it be assumed that the Greeks themselves were
an intrusive people and that they finally imposed their language on
an old Mediterranean race. But if, as I believe, that view is to be
maintained it must yet be acknowledged that from the ethnic point
of view the older elements largely absorbed the later. The people
whom we discern in the new dawn are not the pale-skinned north-
erners—the “ yellow-haired Achaeans” and the rest—but essentially
the dark-haired, brown-complexioned race, the @oixec or “ Red
men” of later tradition, of whom we find the earlier portraiture in
the Minoan and Mycenaean wall paintings. The high artistic ca-
pacities that distinguish this race are in absolute contrast to the pro-
nounced lack of such a quality among the neolithic inhabitants of
those more central and northern European regions, whence ex hy-
pothesi the invaders came. But can it be doubted that the artistic
genius of the later Hellenes was largely the continuous outcome of
that inherent in the earlier race in which they had been merged?
Of that earlier “ Greece before the Greeks” it may be said, as of the
later Greece, capta ferum victorem cepit.

It is true that the problem would be much simplified if we could
accept the conclusion that the representatives of the earlier Minoan
civilization in Crete and of its Mycenaean outgrowth on the mainland
were themselves of Hellenic stock. In face of the now ascertained
evidence that representatives of the Aryan-speaking race had already
reached the Euphrates by the fourteenth century B. C. there is no
a priori objection to the view that other members of the same lin-
guistic group had reached the Aegean coasts and islands at an even

MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 619

earlier date. If such a primitive occupation is not proved, it cer-
tainly will not be owing to want of ingenuity on the part of inter-
preters of the Minoan or connected scripts. The earliest of the Cre-
tan hieroglyphs were hailed as Greek on the banks of the Mulde.
Investigators of the Phaestos disk on both sides of the Atlantic have
found an Hellenic key, though the key proves not to be the same, and
as regards the linguistic forms unlocked it must be said that many of
them represent neither historic Greek, nor any antecedent stage of it
reconcilable with existing views as to the comparative grammar of
the Indo-European languages.’
_ The Phaestos disk, indeed, if my own conclusions be correct,
belongs rather to the eastern Aegean coast lands than to prehistoric
Crete. As to the Minoan script proper in its most advanced types—
the successive linear types A and B—my own chief endeavor at the
present moment is to set out the whole of the really vast material in
a clear and collective form. Even then it may well seem presump-
tuous to expect that anything more than the threshold of systematic
investigation will have been reached. Yet, if rumor speaks truly,
the stray specimens of the script that have as yet seen the light have
been amply sufficient to provide ingenious minds with a Greek—it is
even whispered, an Attic—interpretation. For that it is not even
necessary to wait for a complete signary of either of the scripts!

For myself I can not say that I am confident of any such solution.
To me at least the view that the Eteocretan population, who preserved
their own language down to the third century before our era, spoke
Greek in a remote prehistoric age is repugnant to the plainest dictates
of common sense. What certain traces we have of the early race
and language lead us in a quite different direction. It is not easy to
recognize in this dark Mediterranean people, whose physical charac-
teristics can be now carried back at least to the beginning of the
second millennium before our era, a youthful member of the Aryan-
speaking family. It is impossible to ignore the evidence supplied
by a long series of local names which link on the original speech of
Crete and of a large part of mainland Greece to that of the primitive
Anatolian stock, of whom the Carians stand forth as, perhaps, the
purest representatives. The name of Knossos itself, for instance, is
distinctively Anatolian; the earlier name of Lyttos—Karnessopolis—
contains the same element as Halikarnassos. But it is useless to
multiply examples, since the comparison has been well worked out
by Fick and Kretschmer and other comparative philologists.

1] especially refer to some of the strange linguistic freaks of Dr. Hempl. Prof. A.
Cuny has faithfully dealt with some of these in the Revue des Etudes Anciennes, T. XIV

(1912), pp. 95, 96. The more plausible attempt of Miss Stawell leaves me entirely
unconvinced,
620 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

When we come to the religious elements the same Asianic relation-
ship is equally well marked. The great goddess of Minoan Crete had
sisters east of the Aegean even more long-lived than herself. The
Korybantes and their divine child range in’the same direction, and
the fetish cult of the double axe is inseparable from that of the
Carian labrys which survived in the worship of the Zeus of
Labraunda.

Some of the most characteristic religious scenes on Minoan signets
are most intelligible in the light supplied by cults that survived to
historic times in the lands east of the Aegean. Throughout those re-
gions we are confronted by a perpetually recurrent figure of a goddess
and her youthful satellite—son or paramour, martial or effeminate
by turns, but always mortal, and mourned in various forms. Attis,
Adonis, or Thammuz, we may add the Ilian Anchises,' all had tombs
within her temple walls. Not least, the Cretan Zeus himself knew
death, and the fabled site of his monument on Mount Juktas proves
to coincide with a votive shrine over which the goddess rather than
the god originally presided. So too, on the Minoan and Mycenaean
signets we see the warrior youth before the seated goddess, and in
one case actually seem to have a glimpse of the “tomb” within its
temenos. Beside it is hung up the little body shield, a mourning
votary is bowed toward it, the sacred tree and pillar shrine of the
goddess are hard by. In another parallel scene the female mourner
lies prone above the shield itself, the divine connection of which is
shown by the sacred emblems seen above, which combine the double
axe and life symbol.?

Doubtless some of these elements, notably in Crete, were absorbed
by later Greek cult, but their characteristic form has nothing to do
with the traditions of primitive Aryan religion. They are essentially
non-Hellenic.

An endeavor has been made, and has been recently repeated, to
get over the difficulty thus presented by supposing that the culture
exemplified by the Minoan palaces of Crete belongs to two stages,
to which the names of “ Carian” and “Achaean” have been given.
Rough and ready lines of division between “ older” and “ later”
palaces have been laid down to suit this ethnographic system. It may
be confidently stated that a fuller acquaintance with the archeological
evidence is absolutely fatal to theories such as these.

The more the stratigraphical materials are studied, and it is these
that form our main scientific basis, the more manifest it appears that

1‘*Tombs ” of Anchises—the baetylic pillar may also be regarded as sepulchral—were
erected in many places, from the Phrygian Ida to the sanctuary of Aphrodite at Eryx.

2See my ‘Mycenaean Tree and Pillar-Cult” (J. H..S., 1901), pp. 81, 83, and p. 79,
fig. 53.

3 Op. cit., p. 78, fig. 52.
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 621

while on the one hand the history of the great Minoan structures is
more complicated than was at first realized, on the other hand the
unity of that history, from their first foundation to their final over-
throw, asserts itself with ever-increasing emphasis. The periods of
destruction and renovation in the different palaces do not wholly
correspond. Both at Knossos and at Phaestos, where the original
buildings go back well nigh to the beginning of the middle Minoan
age, there was a considerable overthrow at the close of the second
middle Minoan period. Another catastrophe followed at Knossos at
the end of the third middle Minoan period. At Phaestos, on the
other hand, the second, and in that case the final, destruction took
place in the first late Minoan period. The little palace of Hagia
Triada, the beginnings of which perhaps synchronize with those of
the second palace of Phaestos, was overthrown at the same time, but
the Minoan sovereigns who dwelt in the later palace of Knossos seem
to have thriven at the expense of their neighbors. Early in the
second late Minoan period, when the rival seats were in ruins, the
Knossian Palace was embellished by the addition of a new facade, on
the central court of which the room of the throne is a marvelous sur-
viving record. At the close of this second late Minoan age the palace
of Knossos was finally destroyed. But the tombs of Zafer Papoura
show that even this blow did not seriously break the continuity of
local culture, and the evidence of a purely Minoan revival in the
third late Minoan age is still stronger in the new settlement of Hagia
Triada, which may claim the famous sarcophagus as its chief glory.
There is no room for foreign settlement as yet in Crete, though the
reaction of mainland Mycenzan influences made itself perceptible
in the island * toward the close of the third late Minoan period.
Here then we have a story of ups and downs of insular life and of
internecine struggles like those that ruined the later cities of Crete,
but with no general line of cleavage such as might have resulted from
a foreign invasion. The epochs of destruction and renovation by no

1 There is no foundation for the view that the later oblong structure at Hagia Triada is
a megaron of mainland type. The mistake, as was pointed out by Noack (Ovalhaus und
Palast in Kreta, p. 27, n. 24) and, as I had independently ascertained, was due to the
omission of one of the three cross walls on the Italian plan. By the close of the Minoan
age in Crete (L. M. III, 6) the mainland type of house seems to have been making its way
in Crete. An example has been pointed out by Dr. Oelmann (Hin Achiiisches Herrenhaus
auf Kreta, Jahrb. d. Arch. Inst. xxvii (1912), p. 38, seqq.) in a house of the reoccupation
period at Gournia, though there is no sufficient warrant for calling it ‘““Achaean.” It is
also worth observing that one of the small rooms into which the large ‘“‘ megaron” of the
“Little Palace”? at Knossos was broken up in the reoccupation period has a stone-built
oven or fireplace set up in one corner. This seems to represent a mainland innovation.

* This concluding and very distinctive phase may be described as late Minoan III, b (see
preceding note) and answers at Knossos to the period of reoccupation, L. M. ITI, a, being
represented there by the cemetery of Zafer Papoura, which fills a hiatus on the palace
site. Judging from figures on very late lentoid bead seals in soft material (steatite), the
long tunic of mainland fashions was coming in at the very close of the Minoan age
in Crete.

622 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

means synchronize in different Minoan centers, but when we come to
regard the remains themselves as stratified by the various catas-
trophes it becomes evident that they are the results of a gradual
evolution. There is no break. Alike in the architectural remains
and in the internal decorations, in every branch of art the develop-
ment is continuods; and though the division into distinct periods
stratigraphically delimited is useful for purposes of classification,
the style of one phase of Minoan culture shades off into that of
another by imperceptible gradations. The same is true of the
remains of the early Minoan periods that lie behind the age of
palaces, and the unity of the whole civilization is such as almost to
impose the conclusion that there was a continuity of race. If the
inhabitants of the latest palace structures are to be regarded as
“Achaeans,” the Greek occupation of Crete must, on this showing, be
carried back to Neolithic times. A consequence of this conclusion—
improbable in itself—would be that these hypothetical Greeks ap-
proached their mainland seats from the south instead of the north.

Who would defend such a view? Much new light has recently
been thrown on the history of the mainland branch of the Minoan
culture at Mycenae by the supplementary researches made under the
auspices of the German Institute at Athens, at Tiryns, and Mycenae.
It is now clear that the beginnings of this mainland plantation
hardly go back beyond the beginning of the first late Minoan period—
in other words, long ages of civilized life in Minoan Crete had pre-
ceded the first appearances of this high early culture on the northern
shores of the Aegean. From the first there seems to have been a
tendency among the newcomers to adapt themselves to the somewhat
rougher climatic conditions, and, no doubt in this connection, to
adopt to a certain extent customs already prevalent among the in-
digenous population. Thus we see the halls erected with a narrower
front and a fixed hearth, and there is a tendency to wear long-sleeved
tunics reaching almost to the knees. An invaluable record of the
characteristic fashions of this Mycenaean branch has been supplied
by the fresco fragments discovered at Tiryns from which, after long
and patient study, Dr. Rodenwaldt has succeeded in reconstructing
a series of designs."

These frescoes are not only valuable as illustrations of Mycenaean
dress but they exhibit certain forms of sport of which as yet ‘we
have no record in Minoan Crete, but which seem to have had a vogue
on the mainland side. The remains of an elaborate composition rep-
resenting a boar hunt is the most remarkable of these, and though
belonging to the later palace and to a date parallel with the third
late Minoan period shows extraordinary vigor and variety. Cer-

1In course of publication.
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. | 623

tainly one of the most interesting features in this composition—
thoroughly Minoan in spirit—is the fact that ladies take part in the
hunt. They are seen driving to the meet in their chariots, and fol-
lowing the quarry with their dogs. Atalanta has her Mycenaean
predecessors, and the Kalydonian boar hunt itself may well repre-
sent the same tradition as these Tirynthian wall paintings.

But the point to which I desire to call your special attention is
this: In spite of slight local divergences in the domestic arrange-
ments or costume, the “ Mycenaean ” is only a provincial variant of
the same “ Minoan” civilization. The house planning may be
shghtly different, but the architectural elements down to the smallest
details are practically the same, though certain motives of decora-
tion may be preferred in one or the other area. The physical types
shown in the wall paintings are indistinguishable. The religion is
the same. We see the same nature goddess with her doves and pillar
shrines; the same baetylic worship of the double axes; the same
sacral horns; features which, as we now know, in Crete may be
traced to the early Minoan age. The mainland script, of which the
painted sherds of Tiryns have now provided a series of new exam-
ples, is merely an offshoot of the earlier type of the linear script of
Crete and seems to indicate a dialect of the same language.

In the palace history of Tiryns and Mycenae we have evidence of
the same kind of destruction and restoration that we see in the case
of those of Minoan Crete. But here, too, there is no break whatever
in the continuity of tradition, no trace of the intrusion of any alien
element. It is a slow, continuous process of decay, and while at
Tiryns the frescoes of the original building were replaced in the sec-
ond palace by others in a slightly inferior style, those of the Palace
of Mycenae, to a certain extent at least, as Dr. Rodenwaldt has
pointed out, survived its later remodeling, and were preserved on
its walls to the moment of its destruction.

The evidence as a whole must be regarded as conclusive for the
fact that the original Minoan element, the monuments of which ex-
tend from the Argolid to Thebes, Orchomenos, and Volo, held its own
in mainland Greece till the close of the period answering to the third
_ date Minoan in Crete. At this period no doubt the center of gravity
of the whole civilization had shifted to the mainland side, and was
now reacting on Crete and the islands—where, as in Melos, the dis-
tinctive “ Mycenaean ” megaron makes its appearance. But the re-
turn wave of influence can not, in the light of our present knowledge,
be taken to mark the course of invading hordes of Greeks.

Observe, too, that in the late Minoan expansion which takes place
about this time on the coasts of Canaan the dominant element still
seems to have belonged to the old Aegean stock. The settlement of
Gaza is “ Minoan.” Its later cult was still that of the indigenous
624 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

Cretan god. In Cyprus, again, the first Aegean colonists brought —
with them a form of the Minoan linear script, and a civilization
which sufficiently proclaims their identity with the older stock.

We must clearly recognize that down to at least the twelfth century
before our era the dominant factor both in mainland Greece and in
the Aegean world was still non-Hellenic, and must still unquestion-
ably be identified with one or other branch of the old Minoan race.
But this is far from saying that even at the time of the first appear-
ance of the Minoan conquerors in the Peloponnese, or, approximately
speaking, the sixteenth century B. C., they may not have found
settlers of Hellenic stock already in the land. That there were hostile
elements always at hand is clearly shown by the great pains taken by
the newcomers at Tiryns, Mycenae, and elsewhere to fortify their
citadels, a precaution which stands out in abrupt contrast to the open
cities and palaces of Crete. In the succeeding period, that of the later
Palace of Tiryns, we find on the frescoes representing the boar-hunt-
ing scene—dating perhaps from the thirteenth century B. C.—the
first definite evidence of the existence of men of another and presum-
ably subject race existing side by side with the Mycenaean. An at-
tendant in a menial position, apparently helping to carry a dead
boar, is there depicted with a yellow skin in place of the conventional
red, which otherwise indicates the male sex. Is it possible that the
paler color was here chosen to indicate a man of northern race?

That there was in fact in the Peloponnese a subject race of Hellenic
stock during the whole or a large part of the period of Mycenaean
domination is made highly probable by certain phenomena con-
nected with the most primitive of the Greek tribes, namely the
Arcadians, whose religion and mythology show peculiar aflinities
with those of Minoan Crete. Shortly after the break up of the
Mycenaean society, during the period of invasion and confusion that
seems to have set in about the eleventh century B. C., men of Arca-
dian speech (who must then have been in possession of the Laconian
coast lands) appear in Cyprus in the wake of their former masters,
and this Cypriote offshoot affords the best evidence of the extent to
which this primitive Greek population had been penetrated with
Minoan influences. The very remote date of this settlement is estab-
lished by the important negative fact that the colonists had left their
mainland homes before the use of the Phcenician alphabet was
known in Greece. Considering the very early forms of that alphabet
at the time when it was first taken over by the Greeks, this negative
phenomenon may be taken to show that the Arcadian colonization of
Cyprus took place before 900 B. C. The positive evidence seems
to indicate a still higher date. Thus the fibulae and vases of the early
tombs of the Kuklia Cemetery at Paphos show a distinct parallelism
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 625

with the sub-Mycenaean types from those of the Greek Salamis, and
point to an impact on Cyprus from the mainland side about the
eleventh century before our era, which may well have been due to
the advent of the Pre-Dorian colonists from the Laconian shores.
These, as we know from inscriptions, brought with them local cults,
such as that of Amyklae; but what is especially interesting to observe
is the whole-hearted way in which they are seen to have taken over
the leading features of the Minoan cult. Fanassa, the Queen, the
Lady of the Dove, as we see her at Paphos, Idalion or Golgoi, is the
great Minoan goddess. The Paphian temple to the end of the chap-
ter is the Minoan pillar shrine. Were all these Minoan features taken
over in Cyprus itself? May we not rather infer that, as the colonists
arrived, with at least a sub-Mycenaean element in culture, so too they
had already taken over many of the religious ideas of the older race
in their mainland home? In the epithet “Ariadné” itself, applied
to the goddess both in Crete and Cyprus, we may perhaps see an
inheritance from a pre-colonial stage.

In Crete, where Hellenic colonization had also effected itself in pre-
Homeric times, the survival of Minoan religion was exceptionally
great. The nature goddess there lived on under the indigenous
names of Diktynna and Britomartis. A remarkable example of the
continuity of cult forms has been brought to light by the Italian
excavation of a seventh century temple at Prinia, containing clay
images of the goddess with snakes coiled round her arms, showing a
direct derivation from similar images in the late Minoan shrine of
Gournia and the fine faience figures of considerably earlier date
found in the temple repositories at Knossos. At Hagia Triada the
earlier sanctuary was surmounted by one of Hellenic date, in which,
however, the male divinity had now attained prominence as the
youthful Zeus Velchanos. As Zeus Kretagenes, he was the object
of what was regarded in other parts of the Greek world as a hetero- .
dox cult. But in spite of the jeers of Kallimachos at the “ Cretan
lars” who spoke of Zeus as mortal, the worship persisted to late
classical times and points of affinity with the Christian point of view
were too obvious to be lost. It is at least a highly suggestive fact
that on the ridge of Juktas, where the tomb of Zeus was pointed out
to Byzantine times and on a height above his birth cave little shrines
have been raised in honor of Avdevtij¢ Xpcotoc—Christ, the Lord.

In view of the legendary connection of Crete and Delphi, illus-
trated by the myth of the Delphian Apollo, the discovery there by the
French excavators of part of a Minoan ritual vessel has a quite spe-
cial significance. This object, to which M. Perdrizet first called at-
tention, forms part of a marble rhyton in the form of a lioness’s head
of the same type, fabric, and material as those found with other

44863°—sM 1913——40
626 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1918.

sacred vessels in a chamber adjoining the central shrine of Knossos.
It clearly proves that at Delphi, too, the religion of the spot goes
back to Minoan times and stands in close connection with a Cretan
settlement.

How profoundly the traditions of Minoan and Mycenaean religion
influenced the early cult of Greece has been nowhere illustrated more
clearly than by the excavations of the British school at Sparta. A
whole series of the types of ivory figurines there found are simply
derivatives of the scheme of the Minoan goddess with her associated
birds and animals. It was the same in Ionia. The Ephesian Arte-
mis has the same associations as the lion goddess of Knossos, and
among the jewels found by Mr. Hogarth in the Temple Treasure
occur miniature representations of her double axe.

T will venture to point out another feature which the advanced
religious art of Greece inherited from Minoan prototypes, such as
those which influenced the Spartan ivories. The lions’ gate scheme,
appropriate to its position in a tympanum, is only one of a series
of Late Minoan schemes of the same kind in which the central fig-
ure—either the divinity itself or (as in the above case) a sacred col-
umn, which as the pillar of the house, stands as the epitome of the
temple—is set between two heraldically opposed animals.

Seal impressions from the palace shrine of Knossos show the
Minoan goddess in this guise standing on her peak between her lion
supporters. The same idea is carried out in a variety of ways on
Minoan gems and signets.

The Mycenaean element in Doric architecture itself is generally
recognized, but I do not think that it has been realized that even the
primitive arrangement of the pediment sculptures goes back to a pre-
historic model. That the gabled or pedimental front was itself
known in Minoan times may be gathered from the designs of build-
ings on some intaglios of that date acquired by me in Crete (fig. 1
a, b).1. When we realize that the pediment is in fact the functional
equivalent of the tympanum on a larger scale, it is natural that an ar-
rangement of sculpture appropriate to the one should have been
adapted to the other.

In recently examining the remains of the pedimental sculptures
from the early temple excavated by Dr. Dérpfeld at Palaeopolis in
Corfi, which have now been arranged by him in the local museum
(fig. 2),? the observation was forced upon me that the essential fea-.
tures of the whole scheme were simply those of the Mycenaean tym-
panum. The central divinity is here represented by the Gorgon, but
on either side are the animal guardians, in this case apparently pards,

1The gem fig. la is from Central Crete (steatite). 1b is from Siteia (cornelian).

2Vig. 2 is taken from a diagrammatic sketch kindly supplied me by Mr. J. D. Bourchier,
which accompanied his account of these discoveries in the Times.
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 627

heraldically posed. Everything else is secondary, and the scale of
the other figures is so small that at a moderate distance, all includ-
ing Zeus himself, disappear from view. The essentials of the
architectural design were fulfilled by the traditional Minoan group.
The rest was a work of supererogation.

The fragment of a sculptured hon found in front of the early sixth
century temple at Sparta was clearly part of a pedimental scheme
of the same traditional class.

The extent to which the Minoans and Mycenaeans, while still in a
dominant position, impressed their ideas and arts on the primitive
Greek population itself argues a long juxtaposition of the two ele-
ments. The intensive absorption of Minoan religious practices by
the proto-Arcadians previous to their colonization of Cyprus, which
itself can hardly be later than the eleventh century B. C., is a crucial
instance of this, and the contact of the two elements thus involved
itself implies a certain linguistic communion. When, reinforced by
fresh swarms of immigrants from the northwest, the Greeks began
to get the upper hand, the position was reversed, but the long previ-
ous interrelation of the two races must have facilitated the work of
fusion. In the end, though the language was Greek, the physical
characteristics of the later Hellenes prove that the old Mediter-
ranean element showed the greater vitality. But there is one aspect
of the fusion which has a special bearing on the present subject—an
aspect very familiar to those who, like myself, have had experience
of lands where nationalities overlap. <A large part of its early popu-
lation must have passed through a bilingual stage. In the eastern
parts of Crete indeed this condition long survived. As late as the
fourth century before our era the inhabitants still clung to their
Kteocretan language, but we know from Herodotos that already
in his day they were able to converse in Greek and to hand on their
traditions in a translated form. It can not be doubted that at the
dawn of history the same was true of the Peloponnese and other
parts of Greece. This consideration does not seem to have been
sufficiently realized by classical students, but it may involve results
of a most far-reaching kind.

The age when the Homeric poems took their characteristic shape is
the transitional epoch when the use of bronze was giving place to that
of iron. As Mr. Andrew Lang well pointed out, they belong to a
particular phase of this transition when bronze was still in use for
weapons and armor, but iron was already employed for tools and im-
plements. In other words the age of Homer is more recent than
the latest stage of anything that can be called Minoan or Mycenaean.
It is at most “sub-Mycenaean.” It lies on the borders of the geo-
metrical period, and though the archeological stratum with which
it is associated contains elements that may be called “ sub-Myce-
628 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

naean,” it is, artistically speaking, a period of barbarism and degra-
dation—a period when the great cities of whose rulers the poet sang
had for some two centuries been heaps of ruins. The old art had
passed away. The new was yet unborn.

“Homer ” lies too high up in time for it to be admissible to seek
for illustration among the works of renascent art in Greece, or the
more or less contemporary importations, such as Cypro-Pheenician
bowls of the seventh or sixth centuries B. C., once so largely drawn
on for comparison. On the other hand, the masterpieces of Minoan
and Mycenaean craftsmen were already things of the past in the days
in which the Iliad and Odyssey took their organic form. Even the
contents of the latest Mycenaean graves have nothing to do with a
culture in which iron was already in use for cutting purposes and
cremation practiced.

How is it, then, that Homer, though professedly commemorating
the deeds of Achaean heroes, is able to picture them among surround-
ings which, in view of the absolute continuity of Minoan and Myce-
naean history, we may now definitely set down as non-Hellenic?
How explain the modes of combat borrowed from an earlier age and
associated with huge body shields that had long been obsolete.
Whence this familiarity with the court of Mycenae and the domestic
arrangements of palaces that were no more?

I venture to believe that there is only one solution of these grave
difficulties, and that this is to be found in the bilingual conditions
which in the Peloponnese, at least, may have existed for a very con-
siderable period. The Arcadian-speaking Greek population of that
area, which apparently, at least as early as the eleventh century, be-
fore our era sent forth its colonists to Cyprus, had, as pointed out,
been already penetrated with Minoan ideas to an extent which in-
volves a long previous juxtaposition with the element that formerly
dominated the country. They had assimilated a form of Minoan
worship, and the hymns and invocations to the Lady of the Dove can
hardly have been other than adaptations of those in use in the
Mycenaean ritual—in the same way as the Greek hymn of the
Dictaean Temple must be taken to reflect an original handed down
by Eteocretan choirs.

We may well ask whether a far earlier heroic cycle of Minoan
origin might not to a certain extent have affected the lays of the
primitive Greek population. When, in a bilingual medium, the pres-
sure of Greek conquest turned the scales finally on the Hellenic side,
may not something of the epic traditions of the Mycenaean society
have been taken over? Englishmen, at least, who realize how largely
Celtic and Romance elements bulk in their national poetry should
be the last to deny such a possibility. Have we not, indeed, the
proof of it in many of the themes of the Homeric lays, as already
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT

EVANS. 629

pointed out? They largely postulate a state of things which on the
mainland of Greece existed only in the great days of Mycenae.

In other words, many of the difficulties with which we have to
deal are removed if we accept the view that a considerable element in
the Homeric poems represents the materials of an earlier Minoan
epic taken over into Greek. The molding of such inherited materials
into the new language and the adapting of them to the glories of the
new race was no doubt a gradual process, though we may still regard
the work in its final form as bearing the stamp of individual genius.
To take a comparison from another field, the arch of Constantine is
still a fine architectural monument, though its dignity be largely due
to the harmonious incorporation of earlier sculptures. Not less does
Homer personify for us a great literary achievement, though the
materials that have been brought together belong to more than one
age. There is nothing profane in the idea that actual translation,
perhaps of a very literal kind, from an older Minoan epic to the
new Achaean, played a considerable part in this assimilative process.
The seven-stringed lyre itself was an heirloom from the older race.
Is it, then, unreasonable to believe that the lays by which it was
accompanied were inspired from the same quarter ?

And here we are brought up before an aspect of Minoan art which
may well stand in relation to the contemporary oral or literary com-
positions covering part of the Homeric ground. The Homeric aspect
of some of its masterpieces has indeed been so often observed as to
have become a commonplace. In some cases parts of pictorial scenes
are preserved, such as primitive bards delight to describe in connec-
tion with works of art. The fragment of the silver vase with the
slege scene from Mycenae affords a well-known instance of this.
A similar topic is discernible in the shield of Achilles, but in this
case a still nearer parallel is supplied by the combat on the shield
of Heraklés, described by Hesiod. Here the coincidence of subject
extends even to particular details, such as the women on the towers
shouting with shrill voices and tearing their cheeks and the old men
assembled outside the gates, holding out their hands in fear for
their children fighting before the walls. The dramatic moment, the
fate of battle still hanging in the balance—so alien to oriental art—is
equally brought out by the Mycenaean relief and by the epic descrip-
tion of the scene on the shield, and the parallelism is of special value,
since it may be said to present itself in pari materia—artistic compo-
sition on metal work.

So too at Knossos there came to light parts of a mosaic composi-
tion formed of faience plaques, and belonging to the latter part of the
middle Minoan age. Parts of the composition, of which we have a

VAoric, VV. 237 seqg. Cf. Fsuntas, ’E¢. ’Aoz., 1891, pp. 20, 21, and Muxiva, p. 94 (Tsuntas and Manatt,
Myc. Age, pp. 214, 215).
630 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

fragmentary record, represent warriors and a city, like the siege
scene on the silver cup. But we also have glimpses of civic life within
the walls, of goats and oxen without, of fruit trees and running
water suggesting a literal comparison with the Homeric description
of the scenes of peace and war as illustrated on the shield of Achilles.
These tours de force of Minoan artists were executed some five cen-
turies before the Homeric poems took shape. They may either have
inspired or illustrated contemporary epic. But if Greeks existed in
the Peloponnese at the relatively early epoch, the close of the middle
Minoan age or the very beginning of the late Minoan, to which these
masterpieces belong, they must still have been very much in the back-
ground. They did not surely come within that inner palace circle
of Tiryns and Mycenae, where such works were handled and admired
in the spirit (with which we must credit their possessors) of culti-
vated connoisseurs. Still less is it possible to suppose that any
Achaean bard at the time when the Homeric poems crystallized into
their permanent shape had such life-like compositions before his eye
or could have appreciated them in the spirit of their creation.

Again we have the remarkable series of scenes of heroic combat
best exemplified by the gold signets and engraved beads of the shaft
graves of Mycenae—themselves no doubt, as in lke cases, belonging
to an artistic cycle exhibiting similar scenes on a more ample scale,
such as may some day be discovered in wall paintings or larger re-
liefs on metal or other materials. Schliemann,’ whose views on
Homeric subjects were not perturbed by chronological or ethnographic
diserepancies, had no difficulty in recognizing among the personages
depicted on these intaglios Achilles or “ Hector of the dancing hel-
met crest,” and could quote the Homeric passages that they illus-
trated. “The author of the Iliad and Odyssey ” he exclaims, “ can
not but have been born and educated amidst a civilization which was
able to produce such works as these.” Destructive criticism has since
endeavored to set aside the cogency of these comparisons by pointing
out that, whereas the Homeric heroes wore heavy bronze armor, the
figures on the signet are almost as bare as were, for instance, the
ancient Gaulish warriors. But an essential consideration has been
overlooked. The signets and intaglios of the shaft graves of Mycenae
belong to the transitional epoch that marks the close of the third
middle Minoan period, and the very beginning of the late Minoan
age.” The fashion in signets seems to have subsequently undergone

1In the same way epitomized versions of the scenes on the Vapheio cups are found in a
series of ancient gems. The taurokathapsia of the Knossos frescoes also reappears in
intaglios, and there are many other similar hints of the indebtedness of the minor to the
greater art, of which the “ Skylla”’ mentioned below is probably an example.

2The curious cuirass, which has almost the appearance of being of basket work, seen
on the harvesters’ vase and on seal impressions from H. Triada and Zakro has been cited
as showing that the corselet was known at a very early period (M. M. III, L.M.1). This
particular type, however, has as yet been only found in connection with religious or cere-
monial scenes and not in association with arms of offense.
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 631

a change, and the later class is occupied with religious subjects. But
in the later days of the Palace of Knossos at all events, a series of
clay documents attests the fact that a bronze cuirass, with shoulder-
pieces and a succession of plates, was a regular part of the equipment
of a Minoan knight. Sometimes he received the equivalent in the
shape of a bronze ingot or talent—a good suggestion of its weight.
On the somewhat later Cypro-Mycenaean ivory relief from Enkomi
(where bronze greaves were also found) we see a similar cuirass.?
This comparison has special pertinence when we remember that in the
Iliad the breastplate of Agamemnon was the gift of the Cypriote
Kinyras.

' A close correspondence can moreover be traced between the My-
cenaean and Homeric methods and incidents of combat due to the
use of the tall body shield—which itself had long gone out of use at
the time when the Iliad was put together. One result of this was
the practice of striking at the adversary’s throat as Achilles did at
Hector’s—an action illustrated by the gold intaglio from the third
shaft grave. On the other hand the alternative endeavor of Epic
heroes to pierce through the “towerlike ” shield itself by a mighty
spear thrust is graphically represented on the gold bezel of a My-
cenaean ring found in Boeotia.2 The risk of stumbling involved by
the use of these huge body shields is exemplified in Homer by the
fate of Periphétés of Mycenae, who tripped against the rim of his
shield, “reaching to his feet,” and was pierced through the breast
by Hector’s spear as he fell backward.* A remarkable piece of evi-
dence to which I shall presently call attention shows that this par-
ticular scene seems to have formed part of the repertory of the en-
gravers of signets for Minoan lords, and that the Homeric episode
may have played a part in Chansons de Geste as early as the date
of the Akropolis tombs of Mycenae.*

Can it indeed be believed that these scenes of knightly prowess on
the Mycenaean signets, belonging to the very house of Agamemnon,
have no connection with the epic that glorified him in later days?
Much may be allowed for variation in the details of individual epi-
sodes, but who shall deny that Schlemann’s persuasion of their essen-

1] may refer to my remarks on this in “* Mycenaean Cyprus as illustrated by the
British Museum Excavations’? (Journ. Anthr, Inst. vol. 30, 1900, pp. 209, seqq., and see
especially p. 213), The round targe was now beginning.

2JIn the Ashmolean Museum; as yet unpublished.

STl.,, XV, 645 seqq.

*TI note that Prof. Gilbert Murray, who seems to regard the cuirass as a late element,
still sums up his views regarding the armor and tactics of the Homeric poems as follows:
“The surface speaks of the late Ionian fighting, the heart of the fighting is Mycenaean ”’
(The Rise of the Greek Epic, p. 140). This latter point is the gist of the whole matter.
But it is difficult to accept the view that the cultural phase represented by the Homeric
poems in their characteristic shape is “late Ionian.’ ‘The “‘ late Ionians’”’ no longer used
bronze for their weapons. Moreover, they were well acquainted with writing and wore
signet rings.
632 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tial correspondence was not largely justified? Take the celebrated
design on the signet ring from the fourth shaft grave, in which a
hero, apparently in defense of a fallen warrior, strikes down his
assailant, whose half-retreating comrade, covered behind by a large
body shield, aims his spear apparently without effect at the victorious
champion. Save that in the case of the protagonist a spear is sub-
stituted for a thrusting sword, and that the fallen figure behind the
champion is that of a wounded man who still has strength to raise
himself on one arm, the scene curiously recalls, even in its details, an
episode of the Seventeenth Book of the Iliad. There the Telamonian
Ajax, standing before Patroklos’s body, strikes down Hippothoos,
while Hector behind hurls his spear at Ajax, but just misses his aim.

Much might be added about these pre-Homeric illustrations of
Homer, but I will confine myself here to one more example. In the
temple repositories of the Palace of Knossos, dating from about 1600
B. C., was found a clay seal impression exhibiting a sea monster with
a doglike head rising amidst the waves attacking a boat on which is
seen a man beating it off with an oar (fig. 8). But this sea monster
is a prototype of Skylla, and though her dogs’ heads were multiplied
by Homer’s time, we have here, in the epitomized manner of gem
engraving, the essentials of Ulysses’s adventure depicted half a mil-
lenium, at least, before the age of the Greek epic. It would appear,
moreover, that the same episode was made the subject of illustration
in larger works of Minoan art, accompanied, we may suppose, with
further details. A fragment of a wall painting found at Mycenae
shows part of a monster’s head in front of a curving object, recalling
the stern of the vessel on the seal impression; and Dr. Studniczka
has with great probability recognized in this a pictorial version of the
same design.

But, over and above such correspondence in the individual episodes
and the detailed acquaintance with the material equipment of Minoan
civilization, the Homeric poems themselves show a deep community
with the naturalistic spirit that pervades the whole of the best Mi-
noan art. It is a commonplace observation that the Homeric similes
relating to animals recall the representations on the masterpieces of
Minoan art. In both cases we have the faithful record of eyewit-
nesses, and when in the Iliad we are presented with a lifelike picture
of a lion fastening on to the neck of a steer or roused to fury by a
hunter’s spear we turn for its most vivid illustration to Minoan gems.

In the transitional epoch that marks the close of the age of bronze
in Greece and the Aegean lands the true art of gem engraving was
nonexistent,? and so, too, in the Homeric poems there is no mention

1See my Report, B. S. A., No. IX, p. 58.
2Rudely scratched seal stones of early Geometric date exist, but they are of soft
materials.
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 633

either of intaglos and signet rings. Yet in the Odyssey just such
a scene of animal prowess as formed the theme of so many Minoan
gems, a hound holding with teeth and forepaws a struggling fawn,
is described as the ornament of Ulysses’s golden brooch. The an-
achronism here involved has been met by no Homeric commentator,
for we now know the fibula types of the Aegean “ Chalco-siderie
age” if I may coin such a word—to which the poems belong, with
their inartistic bows and stilts and knobs. It is inconceivable, even
did their typical forms admit of it, that any one of these could have
been equipped with a naturalistic adjunct of such a kind. The sug-
gested parallels have, in fact, been painfully sought out amongst the
fashions in vogue three or four centuries later than the archeological
epoch marked by the Homeric poems.’ As if such naturalistic com-
positions had anything in common with the stylized mannerisms of
the later Ionian art, with its sphinxes and winged monsters and
mechanically balanced schemes.

Must we not rather suppose that the decorative motive here applied
to Ulysses’s brooch was taken over from what had been the principal
personal ornaments of an earlier age, when in Greece at least fibule
were practically unknown,? namely, the perforated intaglios, worn
generally as periapts about the wrist. An example of one such from
eastern Crete with a scene singularly recalling the motive of the
brooch is seen in figure 4. It would not have required much license
on the poet’s part to transfer the description of such a design to a
personal ornament of later usage with which he was acquainted.
But the far earlier associations of the design are as patent to the eye
of the archeologist as are those of a classical gem set in a medieval
reliquary.

When in the days of the later epos we recognize heroic scenes
already depicted by the Minoan artists and episodes instinct with the

+ Helbig, for instance (Hom. Epos, p. 277), finds a comparison in a type of gold fibule,
with double pins and surmounted by rows of gold sphinxes from seventh or sixth century
graves of Caere and Praeneste. Ridgeway (The Early Age of Greece, I, 446) cites in the
same connection “‘ brooches in the form of dogs and horses found at Hallstatt.’’ The best
representative of the “ dog” brooches of this class seem to be those from the cemetery of
S$. Lucia in Carniola (Marchisetti, Necropoli di S. Lucia, presso Tolmino, Tay. XV, figs.
9, 10), where in each case a small bird is seen in front of the hound. A somewhat more
naturalistic example gives the key to this; the original of the dog is a catlike animal
(op. cit., Tav. XX, fig. 12). We have here, in fact, a subject ultimately derived from the
Nilotie scenes, in which ichneumons are seen hunting ducks. The same motive is very
literally reproduced on the inlaid dagger blade from Mycenae and recurs in variant forms
in Minoan art. The late Hallstatt fibule of this class are obviously the derivatives of
classical prototypes belonging to the seventh century B. C. (In one case a winged sphinx
takes the place of the cat, or pard, before the bird.) These derivatives date themselves
from the sixth and even the fifth century B. C., since the last-named example was found
together with a fibula of the ‘‘ Certosa”’ class. The S. Lucia cemetery itself, according
to its explorer (op. cit., p. 313), dates only from about 600 B. C. It will be seen from
this how little these late Hallstatt “dog” fibule have to do with the design of Ulysses’s
brooch.

2The early ‘ fiddle-bow ” type is hardly found before the L. M. III period, when the
art of gem engraving was already in its decline.
634 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

naturalistic spirit of that brilliant dawn of art, we may well ask how,
according to any received theory, such perfect glimpses into the life of
that long-past age could have been preserved. The detailed nature of
many of the parallels excludes the idea that we have here to do with
the fortuitous working of poets’ imagination. We are continually
tempted to ask, could such descriptive power in poetry go side by
side with its antithesis in art, the degraded, conventional art of the
period in which the Homeric epos took its final form ?

But if a combination of such contradictory qualities seems in the
highest degree improbable, how are we to explain this phenomenon ?
By what means could this undimmed reflection of a pure, great age
have been perpetuated and preserved ?

Only in one way, I again repeat, could such passages, presenting
the incidents and life of the great days of Mycenae and instinct with
the peculiar genius of its art, have been handed down intact. They
were handed down intact because they were preserved in the em-
balming medium of an earlier epos—the product of that older non-
Hellenic race to whom alike belong the glories of Mycenae and of
Minoan Crete. Thus only could the iridescent wings of that earlier
phantasy have maintained their pristine form and hues through days
of darkness and decline to grace the later, Achaean world.

Where, indeed, would be the fly without the amber? How could
the gestes and episodes of the Minoan age have survived for incor-
poration in later epic lays without the embalming element supplied
by a more ancient poetic cycle? But the taking over and absorption
of these earlier materials would be greatly simplified by the existence
of such bilingual conditions as have been above postulated. The
process itself may have begun very early, and the long contact of the
Arcadian branch, whose language most approaches the original
speech of Greek epic with the dominant Mycenaeans may have greatly
contributed to its elaboration. Even in its original Minoan elements,
moreover, we may expect stratification—the period, for instance, of
the body shield and the period of the round targe and cuirass may
have both left their mark.

The Homeric poems in the form in which they finally took shape
are the result of this prolonged effort to harmonize the old and the
new elements. In the nature of things this result was often incom-
pletely attained. The evidence of patchwork is frequently patent.
Contradictory features are found such as could not have coexisted at
any one epoch. It has been well remarked by Prof. Gilbert Murray *
that “even the similes, the very breath of the poetry of Homer, are
in many cases—indeed, usually—adopted ready-made. Their vivid-

i The Rise of the Greek Epic, p. 219. Prof. Murray remarks (op. cit., p. 215): “‘ The
poets of our ‘Iliad’ scarcely need to have seen a lion. They have their stores of tradi-
tional similes taken from almost every moment of a lion’s life.”
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Evans. PLATE 1.

(a) (b)

Fia. 1.—GABLED BUILDINGS ON CRETAN INTAGLIOS (3).

Fic. 2.—PEDIMENT OF TEMPLE AT PALAEOPOLIS, CORFU.

FIG. 3.—CLAY SEALING FROM TEMPLE REPOSITORIES, FIG. 4.—HAEMATITE INTAGLIO FROM
KNossos (7) (B.S.A. IX. P. 50, Fic. 36). E. CRETE WITH DOG SEIZING
STAG (3).
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Evans. PLATE 2.

Fics. 5¢-5b.—GREEK SIGNET RINGS WITH SILVER
Hoops AND IvorRY BEZELS FOUND IN CRETE (3).
MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 635

ness, their directness of observation, their air of freshness and spon-
taneity are all deceptive.” Many of them are misplaced and “were
originally written to describe some quite different occasion.”

Much has still to be written on the survival of Minoan elements in
almost every department of the civilized life of later Greece. Apart,
moreover, from oral tradition we have always to reckon with the
possibility of the persistence of literary records. For we now know
that an advanced system of linear script was in vogue not only in
Crete but on the mainland side in the latest Mycenaean period.’

Besides direct tradition, however, there are traces of a process of
another kind for which the early renaissance in Italy affords a strik-
ing analogy. In later classical days some of the more enduring
examples of Minoan art, such as engraved gems and signets, were
actually the subjects of a revival. I venture to think that it can
hardly be doubted that a series of early Greek coin types are taken
from the designs of Minoan intaglios. Such very naturalistic designs
as the cow scratching its head with its hind leg or licking its flank
or the calf that it suckles, seen on the coins of Gortyna, Karystos, and
Eretria seem to be directly borrowed from Minoan lentoid gems.
The two overlapping swans on coins of Eion in Macedonia recall a
well-established intaglio design of the same early class. The native
goats which act as supporters on either side of a fig tree on some types
of the newly discovered archaic coins of Skyros suggest the same
comparisons. On the other hand a version of the lions’ gate scheme—
two lions with their forepaws on the capital of a column, seen on
an Ionian stater of about 700 B. C—has some claims, in view of the
Phrygian parallels, to be regarded as an instance of direct survival.

A good deal more might be said as to this numismatic indebted-
ness, nor is it surprising that the civic badge on coins should have
been taken at times from those on ancient gems and signets brought
to light by the accidental opening of a tomb, together with bronze
arms and mortal remains attributed, it may be, to some local hero.
Of the almost literal reproduction of the designs on Minoan signet
rings by a later Greek engraver I am able to set before you a really
astonishing example. Three rings (figs. 5, 6, 7) were recently ob-
tained by me in Athens, consisting of solid silver hoops themselves
penannular with rounded terminations in which swivel fashion are
set oval ivory bezels, with intaglios on either side, surrounded in
each case by a high rim, itself taken over from the prominent gold
rim of Egyptian scarab mountings. These bezels are perforated, the
silver wire that went through them being wound around the feet of
the hoops. From particularities in the technique, the state of the
metal and of the ivory, and other points of internal evidence, it is

1 Among recent discoveries are a whole series of late Minoan vases from Tiryns with
inscriptions representing a mainland type of the developed linear script of Minoan Crete.
636 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

impossible to doubt the genuine antiquity of these objects.1. They
were said to have been found in a tomb in the western part of Crete,
reaching Athens by way of Canea, and their owner set no high value
on them.? This type of ring with the wire wound around the ends
of the hoop is in common use for scarabs, cylinders, and scaraboids in
the sixth and fifth centuries B. C., and itself goes back to Minoan
or Mycenaean prototypes.* From the style of engraving, however, it
seems impossible to date the signet rings in question earlier than
about 400 B. C.

The subjects of two of these are a Sphinx with an ibex on the
reverse (fig. 5a, b) and another Sphinx coupled in the same way
with a Chimaera (fig. 5a, 6). The intaglios are executed in an ad-
vanced provincial Greeks style, in which, however, certain remi-
niscences of artistic schemes dating from the first half of the fifth
century are still perceptible.*

But the designs on the two sides of the third intagho (fig. 7a and
6), though obviously engraved at the same time as the others and by
the same hand belong to a very different category. On one side a
man in the Minoan loin clothing with a short thrusting sword in his
right hand is struggling with a lion, the head of which is seen as
from above. It will be recognized at once that this scheme corre-
sponds even in details with that of the hero struggling with a lion,
engraved on a gold perforated bead or ring bezel found by Schlie-
mann in the third shaft grave at Mycenae.> On the other side of
the intaglio, we see a bearded warrior with a girdle and similar

1The exceptional character of these objects and the appearance of Mycenaean motives
on one signet side by side with classical subjects on the others made it necessary, in spite
of their appearance of undoubted antiquity, to submit them to the severest expertise.
{ had them examined by a series of the best judges of such objects, but all were unanimous
both as to the antiquity of the signets and as to the fact that the ivory had not been recut
and reengraved in later times. Examination of various parts of the surface under a
strong microscope confirmed these results. In order, however, to make assurance doubly
sure I decided on a crucial test. I intrusted to Mr. W. H. Young, the highly experienced
formatore and expert in antiquities of the Ashmolean Museum, the delicate task of re-
breaking two of the ivory signets along a line of earlier fracture that followed the major
axis of each and of removing all extraneous materials due to previous mendings or restora-
tion. The results of this internal analysis were altogether conclusive. The cause of the
longitudinal fracture was explained in the case of the signet (fig. 7) by the swelling of the
silver pin due to oxidization. The whole of the metal, transmuted to the purple oxide
characteristie of decayed silver, was here within. In the case of the other signet (fig. 5)
this had been replaced by a new pin in recent times, and on removing this the whole of
the perforation was visible and proved to be of the ancient character. The ivory has been
attacked on both ends by a tubular drill, the two holes meeting irregularly near the
middle. The modern method of drilling is, of course, quite different. It is done with a
chisel pointed instrument and proceeds continuously from one end.

2The correspondence of one of the scenes on the third ring with a type on a gold bead
from Mycenae suggests, however, that its prototypes were taken from the mainland side.

3An amygdaloid late Minoan or Mycenaean gem representing a ship, set into a silver
hoop of this type, found at Eretria. is in my own collection.

4 As, for instance, in the attitude of the ibex (fig. b) and in the type of the Chimaera.
The facing sphinx (fig. a) is carelessly engraved and presents an abnormal aspect. Of its
genuine antiquity, however, there can be no doubt. (See note 1, p. 684.)

5 Mycenae, p. 174, fig. 253.

i
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Evans. PLATE 3.

6) 70

Fics. 6-7.—GREEK SIGNET RINGS WITH SILVER Hoops AND IvoRY BEZELS FOUND IN
CRETE(3).
IY Pages
“ a’ Vi
: f te ; 7 i
Ti, ho 7 oe -iin
7 . ae - t :
en 7 oy arene, or ae
ig i 7 - : »
e os y : ae —
7 a - = ee

- i 7 a7 a

2 8%
» es
e a 7 re ca as 4 a ar Vite
; ae per iearee h-8)

f : ss
ne oa a C=

F

is
t

MINOAN AND MYCENAEAN ELEMENT—EVANS. 637

Minoan costume, wearing a helmet with zones of plates and bearing
a figure-of-eight shield on his back. Owing to the defective preser-
vation of the surface it is difficult to make out the exact character of
the stroke intended or to distinguish the weapon used from the war-
rior’s raised arms. That he is aiming a mortal blow at the figure
before him is clear. The latter wears the same narrow Minoan girdle,
but his helmet, which is broader, is not so well executed. He is
shown in a helpless position, falling backward over the lower mar-
gin of a similar shield and holding a sword in his left hand, which,
Re crcr. is rendered unavailable by his fall.

Here we have a scene closely analogous to that on a sardonyx len-
toid from the third shaft grave at Mycenae,' except that in the pres-
ent case the body shield of the falling warrior reaches to his heels.
If, as seems probable, this latter detail belongs to the original of the
type, and the warrior has tripped backward over the lower rim of
his cumbrous body shield, the scene itself would absolutely corre-
spond with the Homeric episode of Periphétés, to which I have
already referred.

atpeplete yap petoncater év dartdoc avtuye maAto,
thy abtoc popgeake Tod qveré’ , Eoxog axdytwy.

th 8 7’ 42 Brabbete xécev Urtcoc, aud? d& xHAnE
apnepdadtoy KovaBnae zepe Kootapocae meadvtoc.*

We have here, in fact, the curious phenomenon of a pre-Homeric
illustration of Homer revived by a classical engraver.

1Furtwingler, Antike Gemmen, Pl. II, 2, and cf. Reichel, Homerische Waffen, p. 7, fig. 6.
A strange and indescribably misleading representation of this gem is given in Schliemann,
Mycenae, p. 202, fig. 313.

2Tl., XV, 645 seqq.
| aisha nok nla 8 oo dd a c
 poeornp weltoelal stat griwOe aaad ah ins: leit: Sign abe
Ya mated AGEN Sc iri Get Si xe
qa odd aro Haale moquave edd detuoniieth at 40 bt cesta Oe
AeA ny tabaci tinier’ Wi inte at Ad Tad ‘hina ete
alidig can volta antes oft ctasy isttdlod B (toe ait j
ai ali .besesaxe Ilo on bint ‘Bi phage Aight itor ue
aca favo! add vero Inarloed uisilfed monet Fr ealect assole Stole
} Metatne barat Sol el 1 teaira, « goibid Goa Digiiele saline 4 ie: oe
Mel oli af oldelievede aah et ae
got eynobisee & they “giset od pagolate- loess iy anette, oy eae ast i
Maaig add tt ddd tqpans ‘anieny tt dn over, Hake Seah ake tere Teak:
wie aid dF codoan wortiaw gaillst adt to bile pei :
wie furrigine ont Ot equaled Netoh vate! atid a ‘eis
Fo intr mprel add vers banedord hog sat tree ome igs
- series yoialoa'y igew Tieatl sea ad: fuels (hed eieeeete
— t nie of ene te bones Pitta: ‘at: vr
iy enh jobionb A bata ay jitintes ti See
eae sesigk Sanita ssvalon hsb Wk?
ahi AN Raed novend aacdee yistehh WEEE He”
| Raptubaan omatdntan iyee pagli aon ethan ¥
: shared -sie kk to Housraomed avoiuiy Oi Jowh a fe sa
Sprsitgns Isyweele & yd berlin 43000] To Hone

Aa -Meeerrs aneereomy wee ae singed ny neon ro ean eet Ny ite Say “epmenhlanalt a

ef aan 48 Se eal atewtinusihe idle st bate 241 it nara Sah 4
= eemottd Be rey Noe ait 22 tiem kee

FLAMELESS COMBUSTION.'

By CaRLETON Eis, Montclair, N. J.

[With 1 plate. ]
I. INTRODUCTION.

The problem of the influence of hot surfaces upon gaseous com-
bustion is one which, from a purely scientific standpoint, has engaged,
for many years past, the attention of Prof. William A. Bone, of
Leeds University and the Imperial College, London; and as his recent
work has been the direct outcome of earlier scientific investigation,
it will be appropriate, by way of introduction, to review briefly the
present position of science with respect to this important subject, as
stated by Prof. Bone.

One may perhaps best arrive at an understanding of the term
“flameless” or “surface” combustion by considering certain facts
which differentiate it from the more familiar processes of combustion
as they occur in ordinary flames. All hot surfaces have an accelerat-
ing influence upon chemical changes in gaseous systems. If, at any
temperature, a gaseous system, A, tends to pass over into another
system, B, contact with a solid at the same temperature will accelerate
the process.

To take a very simple example, if a mixture of hydrogen and
oxygen in their combining proportions (electrolytic gas) were main-
tained in an inclosure with smooth glass walls at a temperature of,
say, 450° C., there would certainly be a tendency to form steam, but
the rate of change would be negligibly small. If, however, there
were brought into the system some porous solid material at the same
temperature, so that a large surface was exposed to the gases, the
‘ate of change would at once be rapidly accelerated in the layer of
gas immediately in contact with the hot surface. Steam, the product,
would diffuse outward from the surface, and the supplies of hydrogen
and oxygen at the surface would be renewed by diffusion inward.
Thus combustion would proceed heterogeneously at the surface until
the transformation of the original electrolytic gas into steam was
complete. In the circumstances just cited, the rate of combustion,

1 Reprinted by permission from Transactions of the American Institute of Mining
Engineers, vol. 48, 1912 (1913), pp. 612-630. Presented at a meeting of the New York
local section of the Institute, Apr. 12, 1912.

639
640 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

although now quite measurable, would probably be insufficient to
cause any self-heating of the inclosure. The temperature would re-
main at 450° C., which is well below the ignition temperature of the
combustible mixture, or the point at which a solid would attain even
incipient incandescence.

It is therefore necessary to distinguish between two possible con-
ditions under which gaseous combustion may occur, namely: (1)
homogeneously, that is to say, equally throughout the system as a
whole, at temperatures below the ignition point, slowly and without
flame, and at temperatures above the ignition point, rapidly and with
flame; and (2) heterogeneously, or only in layers immediately in
contact with an incandescent surface (“ surface” or “ flameless” com-
bustion). Other things being equal, the heterogeneous surface com-
bustion is a faster process than the normal homogeneous combustion
of ordinary flames.

The influence of hot surfaces upon combustion at low temperatures
seems to have occupied the attention of several chemists (Dulong and
Thenard and, independently, Dobereiner, in France, Sir Humphrey
Davy, William Henry, Thomas Graham, Faraday, and de la Rive,
in England) during the first third of the last century; but no one
of these distinguished men succeeded in evolving a satisfactory theory
of the phenomenon, nor, with the exception of the famous “ Dobe-
reiner lamp,” was there any practical outcome of their efforts. In
1836, after a long but abortive controversy between Faraday and
de la Rive, interest in the subject was dropped, not to be revived until
recent years. Prof. Bone’s attention was first drawn to the subject
during the course of an investigation on the combustion of hydro-
carbons at low temperatures. The subject soon became so absorb-
ingly attractive that he embarked upon what proved to be a long
inquiry into the influence of a great variety of hot surfaces upon the
combination of hydrogen and oxygen at temperatures below the
ignition point. The inquiry has also included other cases of slow
combustion; and experiments now in progress in his laboratory will
materially advance the science of the subject.

Prof. Bone’s experimental results justify the conclusion that the
power of accelerating gaseous combustion at temperatures below the
ignition point is possessed by all surfaces in varying degrees, de-
pendent upon their chemical characters and physical texture. More-
over, the “ activity ” of a given surface can be enhanced or diminished
at will in a truly marvelous manner by previous special treatment.
Thus, for example, in the case of the combination of either hydrogen
or carbon monoxide with oxygen, in contact with a nonoxidizable
metal or nonreducible oxide, the “activity” of the surface may be
greatly stimulated by previous contact with the combustible gas, and,
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 641

conversely, may be diminished by previous contact with oxygen.
Again, there is abundant evidence that the actual surface combustion
is dependent upon a prior “absorption” (or condensation) of the
combustible gas, and possibly also of the oxygen, by the surface. To
what extent oxygen is involved, is not as yet perfectly clear. The
“absorbed” (or condensed) gas becomes “activated” (probably
“ionized,” as the physicists would call it) by association with the
surface. Finally, certain important differences have been established
between ordinary homogeneous combustion and heterogeneous sur-
face or flameless combustion. Thus, for example, whereas the
presence of water vapor certainly accelerates, if it is not essential
to, the homogeneous combustion of carbon monoxide, it greatly re-
tards the heterogeneous combustion of the same gas in contact with
a surface such as fire-clay. Again, whereas methane has, in ordinary
flames, a much greater affinity for oxygen than either hydrogen or
carbon monoxide, a hot surface, by virtue of some “ selective” action,
will completely reverse this usual order of things—a remarkable
circumstance, than which no better proof could be afforded of the
reality of surface combustion.

In a discussion before the British Association in 1910, Sir J. J.
Thompson insisted that combustion is concerned not only with atoms
and molecules, but also with electrons—i. e., bodies of much smaller
dimensions and moving with very high velocities—and suggested that
“in reference to the influences of hot surfaces in promoting com-
bustion, to which Professor Bone has drawn attention, it was not
improbable that the emission of charged particles from the surface
was a factor of primary importance.” Those who have followed
recent developments of the corpuscular theories of electrical action
will recall the experimental proof that incandescent surfaces emit
enormous streams of electrons, traveling with high velocities; and
the action of such surfaces in promoting combustion may ultimately
be found to depend on the fact that they bring about the formation
of layers of electrified gas, in which chemical changes proceed with
extraordinary rapidity.

A distinguishing feature of the new processes employing flameless
combustion is, that a homogeneous explosive mixture of gas and air,
in the proper proportions for complete combustion (or with air in
slight excess), is caused to burn without flame in contact with a
granular incandescent solid, whereby a large proportion of the poten-
tial energy of the gas is immediately converted into radiant form.
The advantages claimed for the new system are: (1) The combus-
tion is greatly accelerated by the incandescent surface, and may be
concentrated just where the heat is required; (2) the combustion is
perfect with a minimum excess of air; (3) the attainment of very

448638°—sm 19183——41
642 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

high temperatures is possible without the aid of elaborate “ regenera-
tive ” devices; and (4) by reason of the large amount of radiant energy
developed, transmission of heat from the seat of combustion to the
object to be heated is very rapid. These advantages are so uniquely
combined in the new system that the resultant heating-effect is, for
many important purposes, not only preeminently economical, but also
easy of control.

Il. DIAPHRAGM-HHATING AND ITS APPLICATIONS.

In this process the homogeneous mixture of gas and air is allowed
to flow under slight pressure from a suitable feeding chamber,
through a porous diaphragm of refractory material, and to burn
without flame at the surface of exit, which is thereby maintained in
a state of red-hot incandescence. The diaphragm is composed of
granules of fire brick bound together into a coherent block by suita-
ble means. Its porosity is graded to suit the particular kind of gas
for which it is to be used; but for undiluted coal gas, or coal gas
containing only a small proportion of water gas, a diaphragm so
porous that the gaseous mixture will readily flow through it at a
pressure of one-eighth inch water gauge is employed. It 1s mounted
in a suitable casing; the space inclosed between the back of the casing
and the diaphragm constituting a convenient feeding chamber for
the gaseous mixture, which is introduced at the back. Such a mix-
ture may be obtained in either of two ways; namely, (1) by means
of suitable connections through a Y-piece with separate supplies of
low-pressure gas and air (2 or 3 inches water gauge only is sufficient) ;
or (2) by means of an injector arrangement connected with a supply
of gas at 2 pounds per square inch pressure. In this case the gas
draws its own air from the atmosphere in sufficient quantity for com-
plete combustion; the proportions of gas and air being easily regu-
lated by a simple device.

To start up a diaphragm, gas is first of all turned on and ignited
as it issues at the surface; air is then added gradually until a fairly
aérated mixture is obtained. The flame soon becomes nonluminous
and diminishes in size; a moment later, it retreats to the surface of
the diaphragm, which at once assumes a bluish appearance; soon,
however, the granules at the surface attain an incipient red heat,
producing a curious mottled effect; and, finally, the whole of the
surface-layer of granules becomes red hot and an accelerated “ flame-
less combustion ” comes into play. AI signs of flame disappear, and
there remains an intensely glowing surface—a veritable wall of fire
but without flame—throwing out a radiant heat which can steadily
be maintained as long as required.

The actual combustion in the diaphragm is confined within a very
thin layer (one-eighth to one-fourth inch only) immediately below
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 643

the surface, and no heat is developed in any other part of the ap-
paratus. While the front of the diaphragm is intensely hot, the back
of the apparatus is so cold that one can lay the hand on it. The
combustion of the gas, although confined within narrow limits, is
perfect; for, when once the relative proportions of gas and air have
been properly adjusted, no trace of unburnt gas escapes from the
surface. Moreover, the temperature at the surface of the diaphragm
can be instantly varied at will by altering the rate of feeding of the
gaseous mixture; there is no lag in the temperature response—a cir-
cumstance of great importance in operations where a fine regulation
of heat is required. The temperature of a diaphragm working on
a mixture of coal-gas and air, at a given rate of feeding, depends
on whether or not the intense radiation from its surface is impeded;
with a freely radiating surface, the temperature of a properly made
diaphragm may be maintained at any point up to about 850° C. (say
1,550° F.), according to the rate of supply of combustible mixture,
A curious feature of the diaphragm is the freedom from back-firing
at this or lower temperature. Even when an explosive gaseous mix-
ture is passed through the porous wall at a velocity very much smaller
than the normal speed of back-firing of the mixture, no explosion
backward will occur. Such a plain diaphragm may be placed at any
desired angle between the horizontal and vertical planes.

The diaphragm method is applicable to a variety of combustible
gases. Coal or coke oven gas (either undiluted, or mixed with water
gas), natural gas, gasolene-air gas, carburetted water gas, are all
well suited in cases where unimpeded radiation is required. I have
recently found compressed liquefied gas (Blau gas) to give satisfac-
tory results. Also, Prof. Bone has constructed and successfully
operated plane diaphragms of all sizes up to 4 square feet in area,
and is able to vouch from experience that their durability and radi-
ant power are unimpaired, even after long-continued use.

INCANDESCENCE NOT DEPENDENT ON EXTERNAL ATMOSPHERE.

A further important point with regard to diaphragm-heating is,
that the incandescence of the surface in no way depends upon the
external atmosphere. When once the diaphragm has become incan-
descent, and the proportions of air and gas supplied in the mixing-
chamber at the back have been properly adjusted, the surface will
maintain its incandescence unimpaired even in an atmosphere of
carbon dioxide, nitrogen, or steam.

APPLICATIONS OF DIAPHRAGM-HEATING.

T need hardly point out the many obvious purposes to which “ dia-
phragm-heating ” niay be applied. Broiling, roasting, toasting, are
at once suggested; others will doubtless occur to you—such efficient
644 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

means of attaining radiant heat can hardly fail to find new indus-
trial uses. The evaporation and concentration of liquids by means
of radiant energy emitted from a diaphragm fixed in a horizontal
plane above the surface of the liquid is readily carried out.

For example, the evaporation of a solution of sodium silicate
(water-glass) is an operation which could not be satisfactorily per-
formed by the ordinary means of heating the vessel by flame from
below. By the new method, however, only the topmost layers of the
liquid are heated; the radiant energy of the diaphragm is instantly
transmitted to the surface of the liquid, where it is absorbed and
utilized for the evaporation. The sodium silicate separates out as a
skin on the surface of the liquid, it is then dried by the radiant heat,
and at intervals the crust of dry sodium silicate may be skimmed off.
In this way, we are not only able to evaporate the solution with a
great economy of heat, but we are also able to complete the evapora-
tion of highly concentrated solution much more easily than by means
of heat applied from below.

Ill. INCANDESCENT SURFACE COMBUSTION IN A BED OF REFRAC-
TORY GRANULAR MATERIAL.

This process is applicable to all kinds of gaseous or vaporized
fuels, and to a great variety of both small and large scale industrial
heating purposes. It consists essentially in injecting through a suit-
able orifice, at a speed greater than the velocity of back firing, an
explosive mixture of gas (or vapor) and air, in their combining pro-
portions, into a bed of incandescent granular refractory material,
which is disposed around or in proximity to the body to be heated.

Figure 1 shows the process as applied to the crucible furnace. The
crucible is surrounded by a bed of highly refractory granular ma-
terial. The mixture of gas and air is injected at a high velocity
through a narrow orifice in the base of the furnace, and as it im-
pinges upon the incandescent bed, combustion is instantaneously com-
pleted without flame.

The seat of this flameless combustion is in the lowest part of the
bed; and the burnt gases, rising through the upper layers, rapidly
impart their heat to the bed, maintaining in it a high degree of in-
candescence. Figure 2 shows a similar arrangement for the heating
of a mufile furnace, an arrangement which needs no further expla-
nation.

It is obvious that this process is adaptable to many other furnace
operations, as, for example, the heating of retorts, annealing fur-
naces, and the like. It is not essential that the bed of refractory ma-
terial shall be disposed around the vessel or chamber to be heated; it
may be equally well packed into tubes, or the liké, traversing the sub-
stance to be heated. This latter modification is important in relation
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 645

to the melting of metals or alloys which are fusible at temperatures
below about 600° C., and also in relation to steam raising in multi-

tubular boilers. By this proc-
ess, much higher temperatures
are attainable with a given gas
than by the ordinary methods
of flame combustion without a
regenerative system. In fact,
we have found that with any
gas of high calorific intensity
(such as coal gas, water gas, or
natural gas), the upper practic-
able temperature limit is deter-
mined by the refractoriness of
the material composing the
chamber (i. e., the muffle or cru-
cible) to be heated, rather than
by the possibilities of the com-
bustion itself. In a crucible
fired by coal gas on this system
we have readily melted Seger

be

=A

{SSAA
PDair nee

q

Fic. 1.—CRUCIBLE FURNACE HEATED BY SUR-
FACE COMBUSTION.

cone No. 39, which, according to the latest determination of the
Reichsanstalt in Berlin, melts at 1,880° C. We can also easily melt

ZY
Z

Ve A oe

WS

iy ey

Ye

aie

eat \

7

WS

Fig. 2.—SURFACE COMBUSTION APPLIED TO A MUFFLE

FURNACE.

platinum, showing the
possibilities of the
method in regard to high
temperatures with gas-
fired furnaces. Using air
preheated to 500° C. with
coal gas, a temperature
estimated at somewhat
over 2,000° C. has been
attained. <A very resist-
ant chromite, not melting
at 1,880° C., was fused in
this way. Crucibles of
alundum are fused with-
out preheating the air.
For the very high tem-
peratures obtained with
coal gas, water gas, or
natural gas, Prof. Bone
employs a bed composed

either of fragments of magnesia, which has been burned at a high
temperature, or of a neutral and highly refractory material specially
646 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

prepared for this purpose. When the temperature required does not
exceed 1,300° C., the bed of refractory material may be composed of a
good quality of fire brick, crushed and meshed to a suitable size. As
already remarked, the method is applicable to all kinds of gaseous
and vaporous fuels, but naturally the maximum temperature obtain-
able in any given case will depend upon the volume and heat capacity
of the products for a given heat development in the bed. Thus,
while with actual coal gas, water gas, or natural gas it is possible to
attain temperatures up to at least 2,000° C., about 1,500° C. would
probably be the maximum temperature obtainable without regenera-
tion with producer gas of low calorific intensity, such as Mond gas.
With some degree of heat recuperation, which in such a case would
be quite practicable, this limit could be in all probability consider-
ably exceeded.

The following are the results of a test on a muffle furnace in which
the muffle was heated between 815° and 1,425° C., with fully aérated
coal gas.

Results of test on a muffle furnace.

[Dimensions of muffle, 9.5 by 5.25 by 3.25 in.}

Temperature in middle} @as eon- Temperature of

of muffle. sumption product.
sees to main- ees
tain tem-
perature
constant.
mic: | HH, (Cu. it. per patie eORY
hour, at
| 15°C.)

815 1, 499 21.0 540 | 1,004
1,004 1, 840 35.3 645 1,195
1, 205 2,201 58.0 870 1,598
1, 424 2,596 79.0 1,085 1,9

Mean net calorific value of gas = 540 B. t. u. per cu. ft. at 15° C.

The conditions under which the tests were carried out made pos-
sible the accurate determination of the rate of gas consumption requi-
site to maintain the muffle at any constant temperature between 815°
and 1,425° C.

The temperatures given in the first two columns are those recorded
by a standard thermojunction placed in the middle of the mufile.
The temperatures of the escaping products were also ascertained by
means of a standard thermojunction. It will be observed that the
temperature of the products is in every case some 300° to 400° C.
lower than that of the muffle. Even with a muffle temperature of
1,424° C., there was no appearance of flame whatever at the top of
the furnace. The gas consumptions recorded in the middle column
ere extremely economical in comparison with ordinary heating by
flame contact. Thus, for example, in a similar test with a muffle
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 647

of the same size, heated by flame contact in a furnace of modern de-
sign, the gas consumption to maintain the muflle at 1,055° C. (the
maximum temperature obtainable) was 105 cubic feet per hour;
whereas by interpolation in the above table the consumption in the
surface-combustion furnace at the same temperature would have
been about 43 cubic feet per hour only.

In a test which I witnessed the consumption of gas by the Bone
muffle furnace was just one-half of that of a good type of the ordi-
nary muffle furnace of similar capacity, both being maintained for
several hours at 1,500° C.

IV. SURFACE COMBUSTION AS APPLIED TO STHAM RAISING IN
MULTITUBULAR BOILERS.

It is well known that hitherto the gas firimg of steam boilers has
not been very successful, either in thermal efficiency or in the rate of
evaporation. All the gases used in this country for raising steam,
such as blast-furnace gas, the surplus gas from by-product coke
ovens, natural gas, and producer gas of various compositions, have
been found amenable to the surface-combustion system. An eminent
English blast-furnace engineer estimates that the efficiency of the
best type of water-tube boiler fired by blast-furnace gas does not
exceed about 55 per cent. Prof. Bone asserts that careful observa-
tions, made on a battery of Lancashire boilers fired by blast-furnace
gas, evaporating water previously softened to within 4 degrees of
hardness with an attachment of the most approved type of econo-
mizers (so that the temperature of the burnt gases going to the chim-
ney was reduced to the lowest possible point consistent with good
draft), proved that the thermal efficiency did not, under the best of
conditions exceed 60 per cent. For boilers fired by coke-oven gas one
can safely say that the average thermal efficiency does not exceed 65
per cent, while in exceptional cases it may amount to perhaps 70
per cent.

Figure 3 represents a multitubular boiler of cylindrical section,
operated by flameless combustion. It is traversed horizontally
by a series of steel tubes, each 3 feet only in length and 3 inches in
internal diameter. These tubes are packed throughout with frag-
ments of a suitable refractory material, meshed to the proper size.
Into the front end of the tube, where the gaseous mixture is intro-
duced, is fitted a fire-clay plug, through which is bored a circular hole
about 0.75 inch in diameter. This plug serves the double purpose
of keeping the front end of the boiler cool, and of providing a suit-
able aperture through which the gaseous mixture may be introduced
at a speed much higher than the point of back-firing.

Attached to the front end of the boiler is a mixing-chamber of
special design, not shown in detail in the figure. The mixture fed
648 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

into the boiler tubes from this chamber consists of the combustible |
gas, with a proportion of air slightly in excess of that required for —
complete combustion. The mixture is injected by pressure, or drawn
by suction, through the orifice in this fire-clay plug, upon the in-
candescent material in the tubes. The combustion of the mixture in
contact with the incandescent material is complete before it has
traversed about 6 inches of the tube from the point of entry. The
result is that the core of the material at this part of the tube is main-
tained at a high temperature, although the areas of actual contact
between the hotter material and the walls of the tube are so rapidly
cooled by the transmission of heat to the water in the boiler, that they
never attain a temperature even approaching red heat.

The combustion having been completed, the remainder of the mate-
rial acts as a baffle towards the burnt gases as they traverse the tubes
at a high velocity, causing
them to impinge repeat-
edly on the walls of the
tubes. The usual rate at
which the gaseous mixture
is fed into the boiler cor-
responds to the hourly
consumption of about 100
cubic feet of coal gas plus
six times its volume of air
for every tube of the
boiler, or an equivalent
volume (i. e., equivalent as
regards heating capacity)
of any other gaseous mix-
ture. Thus, for the ten-
FIG. 3.—EXPERIMENTAL BOILER GPERATED BY FLAMELESS {he boiler on which the

COMBUSTION. Pe hc .
original experiments were
made, the consumption of coal-gas was about 1,000 cubic feet per
hour, plus about 5,500 or 6,000 cubic feet of air. These figures indi-
cate the extremely rapid rate at which the mixture is caused to
traverse the tubes. -

UTILIZATION OF THE HEAT IN THE EXIT GASES.

After the burnt products have traversed the boiler-tubes, their tem-
perature is never more than about 70° C. above that of the water in
the boiler (which, of course, depends upon the pressure at which the
steam is being generated). This is a much lower temperature than
that at which the products of combustion usually pass away from a
multitubular boiler. But, in order to increase still further the out-
put of steam, the products are passed through a short tubular feed-
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 649

water heater, constructed on the same principle as the boiler. Dur-
ing a test carried out in Leeds, in which steam was generated at
100 pounds above atmospheric pressure, the temperature of the
products leaving the boiler-tubes was 230° C.—the actual boiling
point of the water being 170° C. These products, still containing a
certain amount of valuable heat, were passed through a feed-water
heater, only 1 foot long, containing nine tubes, of the same diameter
as those in the boiler, packed with granular material. The hot prod-
ucts, continually baffled in their passage through the tubes, readily
imparted their heat to the cold feed-water surrounding them; and
their temperature was thereby reduced to somewhat less than 100° C.

THE TEN-TUBE EXPERIMENTAL BOILER.

The connections to the front of this boiler consisted essentially of a
tube for the supply of gas, and another for the supply of air. The
gas and the air were mixed before entering the feeding chamber
uttached to the front plate of the boiler; the gaseous mixture was
burned in the tubes of the boiler; and the products passed outward at
the other end into a small chamber, and thence into the feed-water
heater.

The mixture of gas and air was passed into the feed chamber of
this boiler at a pressure of 17.3 inches water gauge. This pressure
was necessary in order to overcome the resistance of the packing of
the tubes. The pressure of the products entering the tubes of the
feed-water heater was 2 inches water gauge, so that the pressure nec-
essary to force the gas through the zone of combustion, and there-
after through the remainder of the boiler tubes, was about 15 inches,
water gauge. In carrying out the test the water was evaporated at
100 pounds above atmospheric pressure; the temperature of the
boiling water was therefore 168° C., or 337° F. The temperature
of the combustion products leaving the boiler tubes was 230° C. The
average temperature of the products leaving the feed-water heater
was 95° C., or 203° F. The temperature of the water entering the
feed-water heater was 5.5° C., or 42° F., and it was heated to 58° C.,
or 136.4° F., before entering the boiler, entirely at the expense of the
burnt gases.

The ratio between the heat transmitted to the water and the net
heat of combustion of the burnt gas in the boiler was 0.94; i. e., over
90 per cent of the heat generated was utilized.

It is one of the prominent merits of the new system that the gas
is burned completely with a minimum excess of free oxygen. Dur-
ing the test in question, the average proportion of carbon dioxide
in the combustion products was as much as 10.6 per cent, while the
oxygen was as low as 1.6 per cent. The most careful examination
of the products failed to reveal the presence of the slightest trace of
650 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

carbon monoxide, hydrogen, or methane. Therefore, the remainder
of the gas was simply nitrogen. Even with as little as 0.5 per cent
of oxygen in the products, the combustion of the gas in the tubes is
perfect, not a trace of combustible gas escaping.

THE SKININYGROVE 110-TUBE BOILER FOR COKE-OVEN GAS.

That the gas-firing of boilers according to the new system has been
advanced beyond the merely experimental stage is proved by the
recent erection by the Skininygrove Iron Works Co. (Ltd.), Chuland,
Yorkshire, of a 110-tube boiler capable of evaporating not less than
5,500 pounds of water per hour, fired by gas from a new installation
of coke ovens adjacent to the blast furnace. As shown in plate 1,
figure 1, this boiler is a cylindrical drum 10 feet in diameter, and only
4 feet from front to back; it is traversed by 110 tubes of 3-inch inter-
nal diameter, packed with fragments of fire brick. It is worked under
the suction of a fan. To the front is attached a device whereby gas
at 2 inches water gauge pressure from a suitable feeding chamber,
together with a proper proportion of air from the outside atmosphere
is drawn (under the suction of the fan) through a short “mixing
tube” into each of the 110 tubes of the boiler, where it is burned
without flame, in contact with the incandescent granular material.
The products of combustion, having traversed the 4 feet of packed
tube, pass outward into a semicircular chamber at the back of the
boiler, and thence through a duct to the tubular feed-water heater,
represented in plate 1, figure 2. A fan attached to the feed-water
heater removes the cooled products and discharges them through a
short duct into the atmosphere outside the boiler house.

In construction, nothing could be simpler or more compact than a
cylindrical shell only 4 feet long by 10 feet in diameter, supported
on a casting and requiring neither elaborate brickwork setting nor
chimney. The boiler has the further structural advantage over all
other multitubular boilers, that the front plate can never be heated
beyond the temperature of the water, however much the firing may
be forced. This circumstance, coupled with the extremely short
iength of the tubes, implies an absence of strain and greatly reduces
the risk of leaky joints. Another feature of the boiler which makes
for efficiency is the steep “evaporation gradient” along the tubes.
Under the normal working conditions the “mean evaporation” ex-
ceeds 20 pounds per square foot of heating surface, or about twice
that of a locomotive boiler. Of the total evaporation no less than
70 per cent occurs over the first third of the tubes, 22 per cent over
the next third, and about 8 per cent over the remainder. Such a
steep gradient causes a considerable natural circuation of the water
in the boiler, a factor of great importance in good working. As to
thermal efficiency it seems reasonable to expect that a boiler unit
Smithsonian Report, 1913 —Ellis. PLATE 1

3. TANK FOR MELTING METAL, HEATED BY FLAMELESS COMBUSTION.
FLAMELESS COMBUSTION—ELLIS. 651

which, while evaporating 20 pounds of water per square foot of
heating surface, transmits upward of 90 per cent of the net heat of
combustion of the gas to the water, and which, if need be, can be
forced to a 50 per cent higher “duty” with only a slight drop in
efficiency, will stand unrivaled as a steam raiser. Moreover, in the
case of a large boiler, of say 100 tubes, “ elasticity ” may be conferred
_ by arranging the tubes in groups, so that they may be fired up or com-
pletely shut off, group by group, successively, in correspondence with
variations in the load.

The Skininygrove boiler has proved almost completely automatic
in its working, according to the statement of the manager of this
plant, who says, also: “The boiler has been off for the inspection of
the tubes, which prove to be clean and free from scale, a fact which
I attribute to highly rapid ebullition. During the length of time
the boiler has been at work we have had no trouble with priming, the
steam having been at all times perfectly dry. The average tempera-
ture of the waste gases leaving the plant has been from 78 to 80° C.,
which is ample proof of the boiler’s efficiency.”

Experiments to determine the value of this type of steam generator
as a waste-heat boiler show important economies. Work on oil-fired
boilers has also been carried out with satisfactory results.

V. THE MELTING OF HASILY FUSIBLE METALS AND ALLOYS.

It will be readily understood that the principle embodied in the
boiler is capable of great extension. Thus, for example, it can be
applied to (1) the preliminary concentration of dilute solutions and
the heating of liquids generally; (2) the heating of large volumes of
air; and (3) the melting of easily fusible metals and alloys.

I will here refer briefly to some experiments on the fusion of metals.
Prof. Bone’s attention was first drawn to this subject by experts of
one of the London gas companies, who represented that there would
be a large field of usefulness for the process in melting type metal for
large newspapers, which require for their machines a continuous sup-
ply of molten type metal. Plate 1, figure 3, represents an iron tank,
efficiently lagged and filled to the top with molten lead at a tempera-
ture of, say, 50° above its melting point. In the molten bath is fixed
an iron tube, 2 or 3 feet long and 3 inches in internal diameter. The
tube is packed (like one of the boiler tubes) with a suitable granular
refractory material, and there are suitable arrangements for the in-
troduction of the explosive mixture of gas and air which is to be
burned in the tube. When once the device is started up, it can be
worked continuously for days together. Solid Jead is continuously
fed into the apparatus, and the molten metal is allowed to run over
through the spout indicated in the diagram. Experiments have been
carried out with tanks holding up to 8 tons or more of molten metal.
652 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

in which a series of combustion tubes are fixed. By means of such
an apparatus, lead (or other fusible metals or alloys) may be melted
not only very rapidly, but with extraordinary efficiency. The follow-
ing is the result of a test carried out at the experimental station with
a single-tube apparatus:

Lead-melting test.

| Degrees ©. | Degrees F.

Temperature of metal charged.........-.............-- Bes Shee aa pa5 an SUCe ¢ 15 60

Temperature of metal tapped. -.-.-- = == = a in nnn 372 682
Temperature of gases leaving apparatus. ........- Ae ee ee eS SAH 5 ton aS 500 932

Lead melted per hour=1,176 pounds.

Heat required per hour to raise metal from 15° C. to 372° C.=1,176X32.67=38,420 B. t. u.
Gas burnt per hour=100 cu. ft. at N. T. P. :

Net calorific value of gas=559 B. t. u. per cu. ft. at normal temperature and pressure.

38.420
55.000 0.686.

Ratio=

The conditions were so arranged that the mean temperature of the
molten metal in the apparatus was 372° C. throughout the test. Lead
ingots, each weighing about 30 pounds, were added at intervals of
1.5 minutes, and the molten metal displaced was simultaneously run
off into molds. Great care was taken to keep the bath thoroughly
molten, and at a temperature within a few degrees of the mean
value. Burning gas of net calorific value of 559 British thermal
units per cubic foot, at the rate of 100 cubic feet per hour, it was
found possible to raise the temperature of 1,176 pounds of lead per
hour from 15° to 372° C.; the temperature of the products of combus-
tion leaving the tube being constant at 500° C., or only 128° above
the temperature of the molten metal. Using the latest determination
by Spring of the specific heat of lead at temperatures up to and
above its melting point, and adopting the usually accepted value for
the latent heat of fusion of lead, Prof. Bone estimates that at least 70
per cent of the heat developed was utilized. My observations of
this type of heating apparatus, in comparison with externally heated
melting pots, show a great difference in fuel consumption in favor of
internal heating.

Many other applications of flameless combustion are undergoing
exhaustive investigation by Prof. Bone and his able colleague, C. D.
McCourt, and in the near future we may look for further interesting
developments within the many departments of the field of combus-
tion without fiame.

Se eee
PROBLEMS IN SMOKE, FUME, AND DUST ABATEMENT.

By F. G. COTTRELL.

[With 37 plates. }

The problem of maintaining a clear and unpolluted atmosphere
is one which grows with our modern civilization and for the most
part as a direct result of it.

There are, to be sure, natural phenomena, such as fog and ex-
halations from decaying vegetation, with which we have to contend
in certain instances, but by far the most serious sources of air pollu-
tion are man made.

When coal smoke first came to public notice as the result of the
growing use of this fuel, it was looked upon as a distinct and seri-
ous menace to the community, and the feeling had grown so strong
in England that we find in the time of Queen Elizabeth a law was
enacted absolutely prohibiting the burning of coal in London dur-
ing the sessions of Parliament. Since then the pendulum of public
opinion seems, as usual, to have swung to its greatest elongation in
the opposite direction, but is now on its return journey, which, let
us hope, will be to a position of rational equilibrium where limitation
of the smoke evil to the lowest economically practicable point will
be rigidly insisted upon without either apathy or hysteria.

SMOKE FROM ORDINARY COMBUSTION.

Although the black smoke resulting from the incomplete combus-
tion of coal or oil fuel is not the only artificial offender, it is un-
doubtedly the most familiar and perhaps the most important. The
rational remedy for the greater part of it is undoubtedly to be
found in improved conditions of combustion guaranteeing complete
oxidation of these particles of carbon and oily matters within the
fire itself, thus eventually discharging them from the chimney as in-
visible carbon dioxide and water vapor.

This can almost invariably be accomplished if one is willing to
make the necessary expenditure for equipment and attention to oper-
ation.t This means ample and well-constructed combustion cham-

1U. §S. Geological Survey Bulletin 334, ‘The Smoke Problem at Boiler Plants—A
Preliminary Report,” by D. T, Randall, revised by S. B. Flagg as U. S. Bureau of Mines
Bulletin 39. Aliso U. S. Geological Survey Bulletin 873, ‘The Smokeless Combustion of
Coal in Boiler Furnaces, With a Chapter on Central Heating Plants,” by D. T. Randall
and Hi. W. Weeks, revised by Henry Kreisinger as U. S. Bureau of Mines Bulletin 40.

653
654 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

bers, often with the installation of mechanically operated stokers,
furnaces and boilers of sufficient capacity to avoid overcrowding
even at peak loads, and, above all, a high order of intelligence in
supervision of the operations.

In the matter of city ordinances’ there is often a tendency to lay
all the stress on the regulation of existing plants, overlooking or
underestimating the fact that much of the trouble comes from inade-
quate or faulty equipment in the first place. It has been very sig-
nificant in certain industrial centers to note how some of the older
works for a long time opposed municipal regulation as impracticable
but later were found to be its staunch advocates. Investigation
showed in most cases that their original furnace equipment had in
the meantime worn out or become inadequate, and they had thus
been forced by business considerations to replace this by new, up-to-
date construction in the design of which the smoke problem was
given due weight, and under these circumstances they no longer
found it impracticable or even difficult to operate in conformity with
reasonable smoke ordinances. The lesson that this teaches is the im-
portance of at least some degree of municipal control not only over
the operation of existing plants, but also over the construction
of new ones. There is the same reason for a city to pass upon the
adequacy from a sanitary standpoint of a proposed new power or
heating plant within its limits as there is for its similar control
of the fire protection and plumbing of a new office building. The
regulation of existing sources of smoke always seems, of course, of
more immediate importance, but for the future, the control of new
construction will undoubtedly prove the determining influence.

Under the conditions of our present-day life and industry, the
question arises in each instance, “ What will be the cost and is it
worth while?” Nor is it meant by this to specially indict the indus-
trial sources of smoke. On the contrary, other things being equal,
the individual householder is a far more difficult element to deal
with than the large manufacturing plant. Compare, for example,
Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. We are wont perhaps to think of
Pittsburgh as the typical smoky city and as almost hopeless in this
regard, yet to-day to the student of these matters, the cleaning up
of smoke in Pittsburgh appears an easier and more practical task
than the like service for Philadelphia, for in Pittsburgh the practi-
cally universal use of natural gas in the home has left the smoke
problem centered simply about the larger industrial uses of fuel.
These, from their smaller number and greater individual importance,
it is practicable to regulate by trained supervision and control, but

10. S. Bureau of Mines Bulletin No. 49, entitled ‘“ City Smoke Ordinances and Smoke
Abatement,” by Samuel B. Flagg.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 655

in the case of the individual householder, a similar procedure appears
well-nigh hopeless.

The most promising solution for the household smoke problem
appears to lie in the’ use (enforced if necessary) of essentially non-
smoking fuels. New York City, with its municipal hard-coal regu-
lation, and Pittsburgh, with its natural-gas supply, are good ex-
amples of what may be accomplished in this direction. In the case
of cities less favorably situated as regards such natural resources we
must probably look to the by-products coke oven and other forms of
gas producer to separate for us the difficultly manageable soft coals
into permanent gaseous and solid products, both of which are essen-
tially fool proof as far as smoke making is concerned, even when
placed in the hands of the untrained public. It is interesting here
to note that over half a century ago Sir William Siemens predicted
from economic considerations that the time would come when all
soft coal would first be coked and gasified before use. While this
development in our subsequent fuel technique may have been slow
and ramified into many forms not at once recognizable, the principles
Siemens had before him have certainly underlain a great part of the
progress made since his time, and with the widespread interest now
being manifested in improved methods of combustion this line of
attack bids fair to take a position of ever-increasing prominence.

Another important type of centralized smoke control which has not
yet been developed to its full possibilities is that of the central steam-
heating plant. A very serious offender as regards smoke in many
cities is the moderate-sized steam-heating plant, such as is found
in apartment houses and smaller office buildings. The number of
these and the amount of smoke which each can produce under care-
less handling make them a serious item and far more difficult to
supervise and contro] than if consolidated into larger groups with
a single furnace plant for each group. Steam distribution with its
attendant condensed-water return meets, of course, with sharper
limitations than that of either gas or electricity, but even from the
economic standpoint, aside from the smoke question, it deserves more
serious consideration than it has yet had in municipal engineering.

The ever-widening applications of electricity, especially in power
and heating, are also doing much to solve the smoke problem. Even
where the electricity has first to be generated from coal, a tremendous
advantage is gained by the centralization of furnaces in a few large
plants where the highest type of technical skill can be economically
devoted to securing perfect combustion.

‘The small isolated steam-power plant is rapidly disappearing and
giving way to the electric motor, primarily for economic reasons,
656 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

but incidentally each such substitution helps to solve the smoke
problem.

Another important factor is the electrification of railway termi-
nals. In Pittsburgh, for example, it is estimated that about one-third
of the total smoke now comes from locomotives. In Chicago the ©
proportion is perhaps even higher, and this element of the problem
has been so forcibly realized that the 28 railroads entering that city
are now contributing over $150,000 annually toward an investigation
conducted by the committee on smoke abatement and electrification
of the Chicago Association of Commerce to determine the practica-
bility of general electrification of the lines within the city in order to
eliminate this portion of Chicago’s smoke nuisance. This probably
represents one of the most comprehensive engineering studies ever
undertaken along such lines, and is an inspiring illustration of
what may be accomplished by intelligently directed public interest.
With the growing strength of public opinion on these matters on the
one side and the rapid improvement of electric traction technique
on the other, it is perhaps not too much to hope that another decade
will see locomotive smoke practically eliminated from our larger
cities.

To briefly sum it all up, the coal-smoke problem has grown to its
most aggravated form from the centralizing tendencies of our civili-
zation, i. e., the concentration of life and industry in large cities, and
its solution has already begun and must for the most part be worked
out through still further developments of this same centralizing _
tendency by which the direct use of fuels from which it is easily pos-
sible to produce smoke will be entirely taken out of the hands of the
individual and small operator and centralized in a relatively few
large establishments operating economically under rigid smoke con-
trol, which in turn will supply the small consumer with heat and
motive power in such forms as gas, coke, steam, and electricity. The
key to such a solution is obviously well-directed, intelligent coopera-
tion between municipal authority, private capital, and the individual
citizen.

The above covers, of course, only the smoke due to imperfect com-
bustion of fuel, aside from which are many instances of smoke, fumes,
and dust arising from various industrial processes which can not be
merely “burnt up” into harmless, invisible gases simply by better
combustion.

There are, on the one hand, certain true gases, most of them quite
invisible but still harmful to animal and plant life and sometimes
even to the very buildings of stone and iron; and, on the other hand,
such visible clouds of dust or fumes as can be seen arising from chem-
ical and metallurgical works, cement mills, plaster factories, and the
like.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 657
THE SULPHUR PROBLEM OF THE SMELTERS.'

The treatment and removal of the really gaseous constituents of
these trade wastes become such a special problem of chemical en-
gineering in each case that it can hardly be discussed to advantage
in the general survey here attempted. There is, however, one case
which from its magnitude deserves at least passing comment, viz,
the sulphur dioxide gases discharged from smelters operating on the
sulphide ores of lead, zinc, and copper, of which the latter, owing to
their greater tonnage and higher sulphur content, present the most
serious problem. No method has yet been devised which so’; this
from a practical and economic standpoint for all plants of this char-
acter. The most generally applicable method thus far employed has
been the manufacture of sulphuric acid. The two chief limits to its
commercial applicability in many cases are (1) the lack of a local
market for the acid, coupled with the difficulty and expense of its
transportation to great distances; (2) the great dilution of the sul-
phur dioxide with air and other gases in most smelters.

The greatest single use for sulphuric acid to-day is in the manu-
facture of phosphate fertilizer. The proximity of phosphate rock on
the one hand, and of a market for the finished superphosphate fer-
tilizer on the other, are usually determining conditions in this matter.
Perhaps the best example of a smelter favorably located in this re-
gard is the Tennessee Copper Co., which has recently installed the
largest sulphuric-acid plant in the world. It was driven to this,
much against its will, by fume litigation, but is now making more
from its acid than ‘ari its copper output. As stated, however, its
location for such business was ideal, with the phosphate deposits of
Tennessee and South Carolina as raw material, and the great south-
ern cotton belt as market for the finished product at its door. It
would be difficult to find another plant of this size so favorably
located.

When it is considered that there are many smelters in the country.
most of them in the West, each of which burns off daily from 250 to
1,000 tons of sulphur from its ores into the atmosphere, and that each
ton of sulphur will make three tons of concentrated sulphuric acid
and six of superphosphate fertilizer, the industrial problem of its
disposition can be better appreciated.

The cost of smelting in most of the large copper plants of to-day
ranges from, say, $1.25 to $2 per ton of ore, depending chiefly on
cost of labor, fuel, and power, and as a relatively small per cent of
this often represents the difference between ae at a Peas or ata

1The following four pages treating of the gaseous constituents are taken, with ee ht
revision, from ‘‘ Smoke Problems of California,’ Trans. Commonwealth Club of California,
vol. 8, No. 9, pp. 487~—492, San Francisco, Cal., Sept., 1913.

44863°—sm 1913———-42
658 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

loss, it will be readily understood that not many cents per ton of ore
smelted can be added for special fume treatment unless the product
so recovered can be made to pay part of this cost.

Nor, aside from the cost, would it be easy even to throw away such
an amount of acid without doing damage to the surrounding country
by its getting into the drainage. The total production of sulphuric
acid in the United States at present is about 2,500,000 tons per year,
of which probably over half goes into fertilizer manufacture, the
most important other consumers being the explosive factories, oil
refineries, the steel mills, and miscellaneous heavy chemical factories.
Over half of the total amount of acid is manufactured from the
sulphur of pyrites imported into this country chiefly from Spain.
The low water freight from there to our eastern and southern sea-
board, where both the raw phosphate and the fertilizer markets
already exist, makes this cheaper than to manufacture the acid from
waste gases of our western smelters and then pay freight on the
finished product.

The discovery in Idaho and Montana, within the last few years, of
what are probably the most extensive phosphate-rock beds yet found
the world over,’ is likely to have a very important bearing on the
problem in the future; but even so, the freight rates on the finished
fertilizer to the southern and eastern markets are still practically
prohibitive, and the demand for fertilizer on our virgin soils of the
West is developing very slowly. A few days’ output of the sulphur
from a single one of our large western smelters would supply sufi-
cient acid for the present yearly fertilizer demands of the whole
Pacific coast. However, the consumption of fertilizer in the West
has more than tripled in the past five years, and eventually this will
undoubtedly come to be a factor in the case.

Besides the manufacture of sulphuric acid there are a few uses for
sulphur dioxide itself, the largest consumption being in the wood
pulp and paper industry, where it is used as a disintegrating and
bleaching agent. It is also used as a disinfectant and preservative,
and, to a small extent, in refrigerating machinery, but the tonnage
represented by the latter application is comparatively small and
does not seem to promise great enlargement; still these uses should
not be overlooked as possibilities of disposal of part of the material
to be handled. In the case of the wood-pulp industry, we are again
met by a new complication. The spent liquors from these mills have

1 Phosphates: Preliminary report on the Phosphate Deposits in Southeastern Idaho and
Adjacent Parts of Wyoming and Utah, by H. S. Gale and R. W. Richards, U. S. Geologica)
Survey Bull. No. 430, 1910, pp. 457-535.

Phosphates in Idaho and Montana, by A. R. Schultz, R. W. Richards, and J. T. Pardee,
U. S. Geological Survey Bull. No. 5380—-H, 1912.

Fertilizer Resources of the United States, by Frank K. Cameron—Message from the
President of the United States transmitting a letter from the Secretary of Agriculture,
together with a Preliminary Report by the Bureau of Soils on the Fertilizer Resources of
the United States—Senate Document No, 190, 2d sess. 62d Cong.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 659

proved nearly, if not quite, as hard to get rid of, and as objectionable
to the neighbors, as the smelter fumes themselves; and many suits
have been brought against the plants for pollution of streams and
other nuisances due to these liquors. So, after all, this would simply
mean displacing a nuisance from one industry by extending that
from another, although in the end it may prove merely a step in
the solving of both problems.

As already stated, many proposals have been made to simply dis-
solve and wash away the gas in solution, but, while in the pure state it
is fairly soluble in cold water, its dilution in average smelter gases
and the high temperature of the latter make this mode of collection
very difficult on the large scale and even if carried out it would leave
a veritable ocean of dilute acid liquors which might easily prove more
dangerous to the surrounding country and harder to get rid of than
the original gases. The neutralization of this liquor with lime has
been suggested and, in fact, this procedure actually obtains at the
Ashio smelter in Japan,’ where specially favorable conditions seem
to exist, but, as the weight of lime required in some of our smelters
would be over half that of the ore, this, too, is only applicable in
very special cases.

Another ingenious suggestion has been to moisten the finely ground
slag from the smelter itself, and use the metallic bases therein con-
tained as chemical absorbents for the gas, at the same time unlocking
and recovering in solution such of the valuable metals as this slag still
contains.” Up to the present, however, this method has not proved
commercially successful, on account of the slowness of the reaction,
but its fundamental idea of combining the two great waste products
from the smelter for the purpose of further mutual beneficiation of
both is certainly an attractive one. Although it does not appear as
necessarily hopeless, the difficulties and uncertainties in the way of its
practical application are still certainly very great.

Last but not least is the possible alternative of reducing the sulphur
dioxide back to solid sulphur, or, better still, so smelting the ore in
the first place that as much of the sulphur as possible is given off and
collected as such instead of being burnt to its gaseous oxide as at
present. Both of these methods for obtaining the sulphur in the free
state are now attracting the serious attention of metallurgists.

The earliest experiment, both in the laboratory and on a practical
scale, dates back many years,* but recently the subject has again come

+The Japan Excursion of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, Jos. W. Richards,
Met. and Chem, Engineering, vol. 10, p. 20-21, Jan., 1912.

2The Westby-Sérensen Process, by HE. P. Jennings, Eng. and Min. Journ., vol. 86, pp.
418-419, Aug. 29, 1908; also U. S. Pat. 875222, Dec. 31, 1907.

2 Aeltere und Neuere Verfahren zur Unschiidlichmachung des Htittenrauches durch
Abscheidung des Schwefels aus seinen Oxydationsprodukten, by Otto Vogel, Rauch und
Staub, 3, 68-71, December, 1912; also Handbook of Metallurgy, by Carl Schnabel, trans-
lated by Henry Louis, 2d edition, 1907, vol, 2, pp. 69-76,
660 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

prominently to public attention through experiments on a fairly
large scale now being conducted in the western smelters, both on the
“'Thiogen process,’? developed by Prof. S. W. Young, of Stanford
University, and the “ Hall process,” * due to W. A. Hall. The out-
come of the practical installations and tests under way are being
awaited with much interest.

Even if these methods prove successful at some particular plants,
we must not jump at the conclusion that the smelter-fume problem
in general is forthwith solved, for except where a ready market can
be found for the sulphur produced, the extra cost of the oil or other
fuel required would be a serious consideration. By far the greater
part of the world’s production of sulphur goes at present into sul-
phuric-acid manufacture, so it is evident this brings us back once
more to the question of a market for that substance or the discovery
of new uses for sulphur itself. Since sulphur, however, weighs only
one-third as much as the sulphuric acid which can be made from it
and is an inert solid instead of a corrosive liquid, the conversion of
the gas to this form at the smelter may aid in the transportation
problem even if it is reburned and manufactured into sulphuric acid
at its destination.

There is also the chance of so modifying present smelting practice
itself that, with the expenditure of little or no extra fuel, part of the
sulphur now being burnt up in the furnaces would be distilled off
and collected in the unburnt form. Some of the modern develop-
ments in smelting practice during the last few years seem to point
strongly in this direction, although here again the possible improve-
ments are probably limited to certain branches or departments only
of the work, and part of the sulphur would have still to be taken care
of by such other methods as already mentioned.

To sum up: The smelter-fume problem as a whole is really made up
of so many distinct elements, including character and quantity of
cre and fuel supply, processes employed, location of works, transpor-
tation facilities, available markets for products, etc., that we can not
expect to find any one general solution of the difficulty; but it is
encouraging to observe from how many different standpoints the
question is being seriously attacked by practical men, and from the
sum total of the different improvements applied, and diverse outlets
for by-products being found, we may with fair confidence look to
steady if not rapid improvement in the general situation.

1The Thiogen Process for Reduction of SOs in Smelter Fume, by 8S. W. Young, Mining
and Scientifle Press, vol. 103, 386-387, Sept. 28, 1911; Thiogen Process Demonstration
(illustrated), by L. H. Eddy, Engineering and Mining Journal, vol. 93, 873-874, May 4,
1912. See also Vogel in Rauch and Staub, l. ec.

2The Hall Ore Desulphurizing Process, by W. A. Hall, Engineering and Mining Journal,
vol. 96, 35-86, July 5, 1913. See also Editorial comment and abstracts of patents, The

Mining Magazine, vol. 9, pp. 92-93, Aug., 1913, and vol. 10, pp. 141-142, Feb., 1914; also
1912 Tritish Patents to W. A. Hall 20757, 20759, 20760, 26595.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. O61

THE REMOVAL OF INCOMBUSTIBLE SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS.

The removal of the suspended particles of solids or liquids which
make up the visible clouds of dust and fume may be considered a
purely mechanical problem, no matter how fine these particles are,
and as such presents interesting general features easily understood
without recourse to highly technical considerations.

The chief methods employed for removing such dust and fume
from gases may be classed under the heads of washing, filtering.
centrifuging, and electrical precipitation.

WASHING METHODS.

Where washing is employed it is usually accomplished either by a
system of fine sprays of water or by bubbling the gases through
water or by churning them up with water in various forms of agita-
tors, or by a combination of these. For relatively small volumes of
gases having a distinct commercial value—e. g., in the cleaning of
fuel gas for domestic use or the scrubbing of iron blast-furnace gas
preparatory to use in gas engines—these methods have become well
established, but the thoroughness of the scrubbing required with the
consequent amount of power consumed, together with the fact that,
where the gases contain acid constituents, very corrosive liquors are
generated requiring difficult and expensive acid-proof construction
of the apparatus, has thus far set rather sharp limitations to the
general extension of this method. A vast number of schemes based on
these methods have been proposed and many patents have been taken
out, but few who have not actually worked with such methods on a
really large scale seem to realize the great difficulty they present from
the practical and economic point of view when it comes to dealing
with very large gas volumes.

FILTRATION METHODS.

The filtration of gases through fabrics, usually in the form of bags,
has found a somewhat wider application to large scale work, notably
in the zine and lead industry. The bag house has the advantage over
a washing system in that the material is collected in a dry state, and
for equal volumes of gas treated the expense of installation and main-
tenance is generally oe less than for water scrubbing. The chief
limitations tat the bag house have arisen from the impracticability
up to the present of securing a suitable fabric which would continu-
ously withstand high temperatures, acids, and other corrosive agents
in the gases. Cotton bags are very satisfactory for moderately cool
gases free from acids, such as met with in zinc-oxide manufacture.
Wool bags, though more expensive, will withstand a somewhat

1 See also pp. 671, 674 below and figs. 8 and 19.
662 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

higher content of acids and are much used in lead smelting and in
some copper smelters, but even their limit is soon reached, and in
the majority of copper-smelting plants their use has been considered
impractical unless the gases are first neutralized by additions of basic
oxides, such as those of calcium or zinc. The resistance to the
passage of the gases through the fabric, especially after the solids
begin to collect in the pores, is also a serious item in large scale
operation, as the fan power required to maintain the draft is often
very large.

The use of fine wire screen and of asbestos in place of cotton or
woolen fabrics has been repeatedly suggested and extensive experi-
ments have been made with such materials at different plants, but
they have not proved generally serviceable, due chiefly to their high
cost and the clogging of the pores, rapid corrosion of the wire when
fine enough to filter effectively, and the tendency of asbestos to be-
come brittle in highly acid atmospheres.

Besides the bag filters, much less has been made of chambers or
towers filled with coke, gravel, sand, sawdust, slag wool, and even
asbestos fiber, but for large volumes of gases, especially when they
carry a considerable weight of solids, such filter structures if made
tight enough to be effective, introduce an enormous resistance and
consume a corresponding amount of power, to say nothing of the
labor of cleaning, so that their practical use may be considered as
confined to rather special cases and relatively small gas volumes.

SETTLING CHAMBERS AND BAFFLES.

Even the interposition of large flues or chambers in the course of
the gases on their way to the stack by temporarily decreasing their
velocity greatly aids in settling suspended matters and form a part of
almost every metallurgical flue system. If baffles in the form of plates
or wires are hung in these chambers, their efficiency as dust settlers
is greatly increased, but, of course, at the expense of draft, which
must usually be compensated for by additional height of stack or fan
power. These chambers are, of course, relatively much more effective
as settlers for coarse than for fine particles, and it is impractical by
their use alone to effectively eliminate real “fume” or smoke. Prob-
ably the largest and best illustration of this system is at the Ana-
conda Copper Mining Co.’s smelter at Great Falls, Mont... A few
years ago this plant installed in its flue system a chamber 177 feet
wide, 367 feet long, and 21 feet deep, with iron wires hung from
top to bottom, spaced about 2 inches apart, each way throughout the
chamber, making the aggregate length of wire some 4,000 miles, or
about equal to the earth’s radius. To overcome the resistance to draft

1“ The Great Falls Flue System and Chimney,” by C, W. Goodale and J. H. Klepinger,
Bulletin American Institute of Mining Engineers, August, 1913, No. 80, pp. 1935-2010.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 663

occasioned, a new stack was also built 50 feet in internal diameteys:
and 506 feet high, the chamber and stack costing over a million dol-
lars, and yet the company considered this a good investment on ac-
count of the values recovered from the dust settled by the chamber.
Nor is this by any means the largest of the copper-smelting plants in
this country. In fact, the same company has another, three times
this size, only 175 miles away, at Anaconda. This is mentioned to
give some idea of the magnitude of the problems confronting the
engineer in smelter-smoke control and the amount of skill and money
already expended toward their solution.

APPLICATION OF CENTRIFUGAL FORCE.

Centrifugal force may be applied to remove suspended particles
in one of two main ways. In the first of these the gas is brought
tangentially into a stationary container of circular horizontal cross
section and withdrawn vertically upward through the axis of the
container, as in the well-known type of cyclone dust catcher, while
the dust particles tend to be thrown out to the periphery and finally
drop down into a receptacle provided for them beneath. In the
second method the gases are passed axially through a rapidly ro-
tating cylindrical shell, preferably provided with some form of
baffles. The dust collects on the shell wall and bafiles and may be
removed from them in various ways.

The first of these methods is in very general use for gases con-
taining fairly coarse dusts, but its efficiency falls off very rapidly,
as might be expected, when we come to deal with smaller particles,
and on reaching what we usually understand as fume or smoke the
depositing action is practically nil.

The revolving shell type is much more efficient in this regard, but
the size and high speed necessary in such machinery for treating the
large volumes of gases met with in most instances where it would be
of interest have made it rather impractical and it has not come into
general use.

ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION.

The last method of fume and dust collection to which attention
will here be drawn depends upon the use of high potential electrical
discharges. This has a somewhat special interest for the Smith-
sonian Institution, not merely on account of the interesting scientific
problems which surround it, but also because some three years ago
a group of patents pertaining to the subject were offered to the
Institution as the basis for a new and unique form of endowment for
scientific research. Out of this has grown the Research Corpora-
tion, an organization incorporated to administer the technical and
business developments of these and other patents and inventions
664 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

which may in the future be presented in a similar way to this or
other institutions of learning and to return to these institutions for
use in scientific research the entire profits arising from such business.

As the methods and aims of this new movement have already been
elsewhere fully treated,! they may here be passed over, but on account
of both the intrinsic scientific interest and the Institution’s asso-
ciations with it, the subject of electrical precipitation of suspended
particles will be presented in some detail chiefly by compilation from
articles which have appeared in various scientific journals? amplified
somewhat from unpublished notes on the work, furnished for the
purpose by members of the technical staffs, at present busied with
these developments.

HISTORY OF ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION.

The removal of suspended particles from gases by the aid of elec-
tric discharges is by no means a new idea. As early as 1824 we
find it suggested by Hohlfeld* as a means of suppressing ordinary
smoke, and again a quarter of a century later by Guitard.* These
suggestions, which do not seem to have stimulated any practical
study of the question, were soon entirely forgotten and only brought
to light again by Sir Oliver Lodge® many years after he himself had
independently rediscovered the same phenomena and brought them
to public attention in a lecture before the Liverpool section of the
Society of Chemical Industry, November 3, 1886.° The first recorded
attempt to apply these principles commercially appears to have been
made at the Dee Bank Lead Works. The general principle of elec-
irical precipitation of suspended matter was at this time patented

1 Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30,
1912, pp. 8-5. Also “The Research Corporation, an Experiment in Public Administra-
tion of Patent Rights,’ F. G. Cottrell; Report of the Eighth International Congress of
Applied Chemistry, vol. 24, pp. 59-69, September, 1912. Also reprinted Journal of In-
dustrial and Bngineering Chemistry, vol. 4, pp. 864-867, December, 1912.

2“ The Blectrical Precipitation of Suspended Particles,’ by F. G. Cottrell, Journ, Ind.
and Eng. Chem., vol. 3, 542-550, August, 1911. “ Electrical Fume Precipitation,” by F. G.
Cottrell, Trans. Amer. Inst. Min. Eng., vol. 43, pp. 512-520, 755-762 (New York meeting,
February, 1912). ‘‘ The Control of Dust in Portland Cement Manufacture by the Cottrell
Precipitation Processes,” by Walter A. Schmidt; reprint Eighth Inter. Congress Applied
Chem., vol. 5, pp. 117-124, 1912; also reprinted from Journal Industrial and Engineering
Chemistry, vol. 4, pp. 719-723, October, 1912. “‘ Electrical Precipitation of Suspended
Particles,” by Linn Bradley, Trans. Amer. Electrochemical Soc., vol. 22, pp. 489-497, 1912,
“ Blectrical Precipitation of Cement Dust,’ Philip S. Taylor, Journ. Electr. Power and
Gas, Mar. 14, 1914.

3“ Das Niederschlagen des Rauchs durch Hlectricitiit Hohlfeld,” Kastner Archiv. Naturl.,
vol. 2, pp. 205-206 (1824).

4C, F. Guitard, Mechanics Magazine, Nov., 1850.

6 Historical Note on ‘Dust Electrification and Heat,” O. J. Lodge, Nature, vol. 71.
p. 582 (1905).

6“ The Electrical Disposition of Dust and Smoke with Special Reference to the Col-
lection of Metallic Fumes and to a Possible Purification of the Atmosphere,” Journ. Soc.
Chem. Ind., vol. 5, pp. 572-576 (1886), with appended bibliography.
\N \

BCBCEK$RM CG

=

E'[ I FI

VMI

Fic. 1.—DRAWINGS ACCOMPANYING EARLIEST PATENT ON PRECIPITATION (WALKER
1884).
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 665

by Alfred O. Walker of the above firm in several countries,’ but these
patents have long since expired. The apparatus was installed in
1885 by the works manager, W. M. Hutchings, with the cooperation
of Prof. Lodge, and was briefly described by the former? just before
its completion as consisting of a system of metallic points situated in
the flue from the lead furnaces, and excited from two Wimshurst
influence machines with glass plates 5 feet in diameter, each machine
being driven by a 1-horsepower steam engine. Figure* 1 reproduces
the drawing accompanying Walker’s United States patent specifica-
tion, A being the Wimshurst machine and B the flue carrying the
gases to be treated.

The apparatus peony: did not in practice fulfill expectations,
as we find nothing further of it in the literature. ‘The most apparent
weakness of the project lay, perhaps, in the reliance on the Wims-
hurst machine, which had then just been brought out and from which
a great deal more was anticipated‘ than has been justified by expe-
rience, at least as far as commercial applications are concerned.
Almost simultaneously with Walker, and apparently without knowl-
edge of his and Lodge’s work, Dr. Karl Moeller, of the firm of
K. & Th. Moeller, of Brackwede, Germany, secured a patent® on
electrical precipitation. The patent specification itself appears, how-
ever, to be the only published record of this work. The idea was, it
is understood, suggested by an article® dealing with the disturbing
influence on electrometer measurements due to dust in the air.

After this an occasional patent’ or article*’ served to keep the
subject in the public eye, and in 1903 Lodge took out a patent ®
covering the use of the then new mercury arc for rectifying high
potential alternating currents for this purpose, but none of these
patents seem to have been carried into successful commercial opera-
tion on the large scale in the chemical or metallurgical industries.

Some eight years ago, while studying various methods for the
removal of acid mists in the contact sulphuric-acid process at the
University of California, the author had occasion to repeat the early
experiments of Lodge and became convinced of the possibility of de-

1Great Britain, Patent No. 11120, Aug. 9, 1884; Belgium, 68927, May 19, 1885; Spain,

7211, July 10, 1885; Germany, 382861, Feb. 27, 1885; Italy, 18007, Mar. 31, 1885;
United States, 342548, May 25, 1886.

2 Berg.- und Hiittenmiinnisch Zeitung, vol. 44, pp. 253-254 (1885).

*The figures in this paper are numbered consecutively and printed on plates.

4A. O. Walker, Engincering (Lond.), vol. 39, pp. 627-628 (1885). G, Tissandier, Lon-
don Electrician, vol. 17, p. 33 eae:

WGer, LataoloLmoKd. 1) Oct 1884.

® By Robt. Narwald, Wied. ace an 5, pp. 460-499 (1878).

TLorrain, British Pats. 6495 and 6567 (1886); Thwait, U. S. Pat. 617618, Jan. 10,
1899; Hardie, U. S. Pat. 768450, Aug. 28, 1904; Blake, U. S. Pat. 913941, Mar. 2, 1909;
Dion, 925626, June 22, 1909.

8J. Wright, Elect. Rev. (Lond.), vol. 47, p. 811, Nov. 23, 1900; see also Jour, Roy,
Sanitary Institute, vol. 27, p. 42.

® Brit. Pat. 24305 (1903); U. S. Pat. 803180, Oct. 31, 1905.
666 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

veloping them into commercial realities. The subsequent work may
fairly be considered as the reduction to engineering practice as re-
gards equipment and construction of the fundamental processes long
since laid open to us by the splendid pioneer work of Lodge, a feat
vastly easier to-day than at the time of Lodge and Walker’s original
attempt.

THEORY OF ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION.

The precipitation of suspended matter, whether in gases or liquids,
may be accelerated by electricity in the form of either direct or
alternating current, but the mode of action and the type of problem
to which each is best applicable differ in certain important respects.

Where an alternating electromotive force is applied to a suspen-
sion the action consists for the most part in an agglomeration of the
suspended particles into larger aggregates out in the body of the sus-
pending medium and a consequently more rapid settling of these
ageregates under the influence of gravity.

Thus, it has been stated that if powerful Hertzian waves are sent
out under proper conditions into foggy air the alternating fields set
up in space cause an agglomeration of the particles of liquid into
larger drops, which then settle much more rapidly. Considerable
work aimed at the application of these phenomena to the dispelling
of fog on land and sea was said to have been done some years ago in
France and England, but very little as to definite results appears to
have been published. Another application of alternating current
along these lines is found in a process now in use in the California oil
fields for separating emulsified water from crude oil.!

Alternating current may thus be used to advantage where the
masses of fluid to be treated are fairly quiescent, and a simple
agglomeration of the suspended particles into larger aggregates is
suflicient to effect separation by gravity or otherwise.

In the case of the large volumes of rapidly moving gases in smelter
flues the agglomerating and settling process is, however, too slow
even when the flues are expanded into as large dust chambers as are
commercially feasible. It is in such cases that unidirectional current
methods have been particularly important.

If we bring a needle point connected to one side of a high poten-
tial direct-current line opposite to a flat plate connected to the other
side of the line we find that the air space between becomes highly
charged with electricity of the same sign as the needle point, irre-
spective of whether this is positive or negative, and any insulated
body brought into this space instantly receives a charge of the same
sign. If this body is free to move, as in the case of a floating particle,

1See “ Dehydration of Crude Petroleum, a New Electrical Process,’ Arthur T, Beazley,
The Oil Age (Los Angeles), vol. 3, pp. 2-4, Apr. 21, 1911.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 667

it will be attracted to the plate of opposite charge and will move the
faster the higher its charge and the greater the potential gradient
between the point and plate.

Even if there are no visible suspended particles the gas molecules
themselves undergo this same process, as is evidenced by a strong
wind from the point to the plate, even in perfectly transparent gases.
The old familiar experiment of blowing out a candle flame by pre-
senting it to such a charged point is simply another illustration of
the same phenomena.

As above indicated, the first step toward practicability was of
necessity a commercially feasible source of high-tension direct cur-
rent. The obstacles to building ordinary direct-current generators
for high voltages lie chiefly in difficulties of insulation, and if this
is avoided as to individual machines by working a large number
in series the multiplication of adjustments and moving parts intrudes
itself. On the other hand, high potential alternating current tech-
nique has in late years been worked out most thoroughly, and com-
mercial apparatus up to 100,000 volts and over has been available for
some years in the market.

The procedure actually used in the installations described below
is diagrammatically illustrated in the early Patent Office drawing
(fig. 2), and consists in transforming the alternating current from
an ordinary lighting or power circuit P up to some 20,000 to 75,000
volts through the transformer 0, and then commutating this high
potential current into an intermittent-direct current by means of a
special rotating contact maker J driven by a synchronous motor L.
This unidirectional current is applied to a system of electrodes in the
flues carrying the gases to be treated. In the particular form shown
in the drawing the wall of the chamber A itself acts as one electrode,
the other electrode @ being suspended within it. The heating circuit
h and inlet for clean gas G are merely for protection of the insulation
from condensation of acid and moisture.

The electrodes are of two types corresponding to the plate and point
in the experiment above cited. The construction of electrodes corre-
sponding to the plate presents no special problem, as any smooth
conducting surface will answer the purpose. With the pointed or
discharge electrodes it is quite otherwise, and the working out of
practical forms for these proved the key to the first commercially
successful installations.

In laboratory experiments when the discharge from a single point
or a few such was being studied fine sewing needles or even wire
bristles answered very well, but when it was attempted to greatly
multiply such discharge points in order to uniformly treat a large
mass of rapidly moving gas at moderate temperatures great dif-
668 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ficulty was encountered in obtaining a powerful and, at the same time.
effective distribution of current.

It may be of interest to note that the clue to the solution of this
difficulty came from an almost accidental observation. Working one
evening in the twilight, when the efficiency of the different points
could be roughly judged by the pale luminous discharge from them,
it was noticed that under the particular conditions employed at the
time this glow only became appreciable when the points had ap-
proached the plates almost to within the distance for disruptive
discharge, while at the same time a piece of cotton-covered magnet
wire, which carried the current from the transformer and commutator
to the discharge electrodes, although widely separated from any
conductor of opposite polarity, showed a beautiful uniform purple
glow along its whole length. The explanation lay in the fact that
every loose fiber of the cotton insulation, although a relatively poor
conductor compared to a metallic wire, was still sufficiently con-
ductive from its natural hygroscopic moisture to act as a discharge
point for this high potential current, and its fineness and sharpness.
of course, far exceeded that of the sharpest needle or thinnest metallic
wire. Acting on this suggestion, it was found that a piece of this
cotton-covered wire when used as a discharge electrode at ordinary
temperature proved far more effective in precipitating the sulphuric-
acid mist, which was then the object of study, than any system of
metallic points which it had been possible to construct. Perhaps
the greatest advantage thus gained lay in the less accurate spacing
demanded between the electrodes of opposite polarity in order to
secure a reasonably uniform discharge. Much of the importance of
this discovery at the time lay in the limited potentials of a few
thousand volts then available to the experimenters in their laboratory
work.

In practice, of course, a more durable material than cotton was
demanded for the hot acid gases to be treated, and this was found
in asbestos or mica, the fine filaments of the one and the scales of the
other supplying the discharge points or edges of the excessive fine-
ness required. These materials were twisted up with wires or other-
wise fastened to suitable metallic supports to form the discharge elec-
trodes in such wise that the current had to pass only a short distance
by surface leakage over them, the slight deposit of moisture or acid
fume naturally settling on them serving to effect the conduction.
With the further development of the electrical technique to provide
the far higher voltages now being used in commercial operation, the
choice and design of electrodes has become much more flexible, includ-
ing simple metallic wires, sharp metallic strips, and the like. In
fact, the very phenomena of so-called corona loss or direct leakage
from the wire into the air on high-tension transmission lines, which
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Ccttrell. PLATE 2.

Fic. 2.—PATENT OFFICE DRAWINGS OF FIRST COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL SYSTEM OF
ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION (COTTRELL, 1908).
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 3.

Fic. 3.—GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF EXPERIMENTS ON SULPHURIC ACID MISTS, UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, 1906.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 669

are to-day the chief stumbling block of the power companies in going
very far above 100,000 volts on these lines, become exactly what is
desired in the processes of precipitation, and with the voltages now
used a bare metal wire of moderate size or the relatively thin edge of
a metallic sheet may be made to furnish an excellent discharge.

The construction and arrangement of the electrodes, as also of the
chamber containing them, naturally varies very widely with the con-
ditions to be fulfilled under the varied applications to which the
process may be put. Some of the more general features of this work
are described in patents' already issued in this and foreign coun-
tries, while further details and modifications are covered in other
patents not yet issued from the various patent offices. The accom-
panying photographs give perhaps a better idea of the gradual de-
velopment of the work than any detailed description which would be
possible in the space here at command.

LABORATORY EXPERIMENTS.

Figure 3 is the apparatus used for the original laboratory experi-
ments in the spring of 1906. Sulphuric-acid mist was generated by
bubbling the gas from the little contact sulphuric-acid plant, seen
on the table, through water in the U tube beneath the inverted glass
bell jar (A), whose inner walls were quickly wetted sufficiently with
acid to act as the collecting electrode, a wire being inserted along-
side of the stopper through which the U-tube connected with the bell
jar and served to connect the jar walls to the induction coil. on the
left, the latter acting as the step-up transformer (O). This coil re-
ceived alternating current at 110 volts from the lighting circuit and
gave about 3,700. volts at its secondary. The other high potential
terminal of the induction coil was connected to the discharge elec-
trode (C) within the bell jar through a make and break (M J N),
operated by the synchronous motor (L). This latter was improvised
by substituting a plain iron cross for the squirrel-cage armature in an
ordinary fan motor operated from the same 110-volt line as the
induction coil and brought into step by the induction motor on the
right. A momentary contact with the discharge electrode was thus
established once each complete cycle at the peak of the voltage wave
and served to charge this electrode to the maximum voltage of the
line, always with the same polarity. As stated above, electrical pre-
cipitation takes place no matter whether the discharge electrode is
made the positive or negative, and the direction of the discharge and
deposit is independent of the polarity and determined only by the

1U. 8. Pats. 866843, 895729, 945917, 1016476, 1035422, and 1067974. ‘The second of
these also practically reprinted by Eng. Min. Journ., vol. 86, pp. 375-377 (1908),
Germ. Pats. 258435, 265964, and 270757, and corresponding patents in various other
countries, See also in this connection German Pats. 208740, 230570, and 238958.

*'The letters in parentheses refer to corresponding parts in the diagram (fig. 2).
670 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

size, shape, and surface of the opposing electrodes; but it is found
in practice that the negative discharge is much the more stable and
can be run at higher current without danger of disruptive discharge,
so that it has now become standard practice to make the discharge
electrodes the negative and the grounded collection electrodes the
positive. In order to help maintain the charge on the electrode in
the interval between these contacts, the Leyden jar (1) seen in the
picture was connected in parallel with the electrodes. The wire lead-
ing to the jar walls or collecting electrode was usually grounded for
convenience and safety, as, in fact, has been done throughout all the
practical installations. This leaves but one high-potential conductor
to deal with in each precipitation chamber and greatly increases the
safety of operation.

Figure 4 is a closer view of the precipitation chamber through
which the acid fume is being blown at the rate of about 20 liters per
minute, the electric current being shut off of the apparatus. Figure
5 shows the effect of turning on the electric current with the same gas
steam still flowing.

The discharge electrode in this case consisted of a cylinder of wire
screen (C), wrapped with a few turns of asbestos sewing twine (c)
and suspended by a wire passing through a glass tube as shown. The
suspended particles of acid were driven away from the asbestos fila-
ments and deposited on the walls of the bell jar, finally running down
into the U tube below.

The next undertaking was to duplicate these experiments on a scale
some two hundred-fold larger. This was carried out during the same
summer at the Hercules works of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours Pow-
der Co. at Pinole, on San Francisco Bay, where the contact gases
from one of their Mannheim contact sulphuric acid units were em-
ployed.

Figures 6 and 7 are photographs taken about a minute apart with
the same current of fume-laden gases passing into the precipitation
ehamber, but with the electric current respectively off and on. The
apparatus was the same in general principle as the small laboratory
anit described above. The precipitated acid drained off from this
precipitation chamber into the carboy on the right. Current was
supplied from three 1-kilowatt 110-volt to 2,200-volt transformers
connected in series on their 2,200 volt side to give 6,600 volts. In this
apparatus the power consumpticn was about one-fifth of a kilowatt,
and between 100 and 200 cubic feet of %as per minute could readily
be treated.

1The Positive and Negative Corona and Electrical Precipitation, W. W. Strong. Trans.
Sind

Amer. Inst. Elect. Eng., vol. 32, pp. 1305-1314, Cooperstown meeting, June 27, 1913.
Also U. S. Pat. 1067974, Cottrell, July 22, 19138.

‘NO LNSYYND ONL ‘440 LNSYYND ONL
-O319 ‘YOLVIIdIOAYG IWLNAWINAdxXy JO WvVLaq GaoYuvINg—'G ‘dI4 ‘YOLVLIdIOSYd IWLNAWIYSdxg JO TIVLaq GaDYuVINA—'p ‘dI4

‘p ALWId
"NO LNAYYND "44O LNBYUND
DIN LOSTA SLNV1d GIOW-OINNHdINS LY HOLVLIdIOSYd—'Z “OI4 OINLOSTA SLNV1d GIOW-OINNHdINS LY HOLVLIdIOSYq—'9 “DI4

‘S 3LV1d ‘{]e}09— £16] ‘Hoday ueluosyziWS

~ c
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 6.

Fic. 8.—BAG HOUSE AT SELBY SMELTER.
PLATE 7.

Smithsonian Report,

Fic. 9.—Buss BARS AND HEADS OF DISCHARGE ELECTRODES IN PARTING-ROOM FLUE

AT SELBY SMELTER.

srentnertTT ee. we

AAAMAAAAAAAAAANAA Tennant eran AAVAMAARAA 88

sot ABBAA MINAAAAAS AAMAAA AASADAARARABASAS

COTE Tet FTV ORTT CTO eCe CNW nv
SLM AMBIT ES TLE TOES LAT TOF

Fic. 10.—ELECTRODES INSIDE OF PARTING-ROOM FLUE AT SELBY SMELTER.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 671

FIRST COMMERCIAL INSTALLATIONS.

These experiments at Pinole attracted the attention of the Selby
Smelting & Lead Co., whose smelter, located at Vallejo Junction, a
few miles farther up the bay, was at that time the object of injunc-
tion proceedings brought by the farmers of the surrounding coun-
try. At the time the suits originated three separate stacks at the
smelter contributed to the alleged nuisance. The first, and admit-
tedly the most serious offender, handled the gases from the lead blast
furnaces and discharged several tons of lead fume daily into the
air. Shortly before the commencement of electrical precipitation
work at the plant this had been obviated by the installation of the
bag house,’ shown in figure 8. After correcting this evil there still
remained. however, a stack discharging the gases from the roasters,
which, besides the invisible sulphur dioxide, furnished dense white
clouds, consisting chiefly of sulphuric acid, arsenic, and lead salts,
and to which the bag house was inapplicable on account of the corro-
sive action of these gases upon the bags. Lastly there was the stack
of the refinery carrying the mists escaping from the pots of boiling
sulphuric acid used to dissolve the silver out of the gold and silver
alloy coming from the cupels.

The blast furnace and the roaster stacks each carried something
over 50,000 cubic feet of gas per minute while the refinery stack
represented scarcely a tenth of this volume. As a first step operations
were accordingly commenced on this latter, and after several months’
experimenting as to the best form of construction a system of ver-
tical lead plates 4 inches wide by 4 feet in length and spaced about 4
inches apart was adopted. Several rows of such plates were as-
sembled in a 4 by 4 foot lead flue. Between each pair of plates hung
a lead-covered iron rod carrying the asbestos or mica discharge ma-
terial, the latter finally proving the more serviceable in this highly
acid atmosphere. These rods or discharge electrodes were supported
on a gridwork of buss bars extending over the heads of the plates
and through apertures in the sides of the flue to insulators on the
outside. Figure 9 is a view looking down on the top of this flue with
the cover removed from above the electrodes, and figure 10 is a view
inside the flue looking through the system of electrodes. Figures 11
and 12 show the effect on the appearance of the stack when the elec-
tric circuit is respectively open and closed, the stack in the immediate
left foreground being the one into which this flue discharges. The
large stack in the middle background is from the roasters to be dis-
cussed below. Figure 13 shows the corresponding stream of dilute
sulphuric acid (about 40° B.) running out from the flue as pre-

1For detailed description see Eng. Min. Journ. vol. 86, pp. 451-457 (1908).
672 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

cipitated. When the acid kettles are at a full boil it often amounts
to over 2 gallons a minute.

The electric current is taken from the power circuit of the plant at
460 volts, 60 cycles, and transformed up to 17,000 volts thence
through the synchronous contact maker or rectifier to the electrode
system. At first a glass-plate condenser was connected across the
high potential line in parallel with the electrode system in order to
assist In maintaining the potential of the electrodes between the in-
tervals of contact, but was found troublesome and unnecessary in
practice and in this and other installations is now omitted.

The power consumption for this installation is about 2 kilowatts,

including the driving current for the synchronous motor, and the
whole apparatus requires no more attention than a feed pump or a
blower. This appears to have been the first commercially successful
installation of electrical precipitation ever made, and has now been
in regular daily operation for over seven years at a cost for labor
attendance and repairs of less than $20 a month. In fact, while the
plant was making enough bluestone to utilize all the weak acid re-
covered, the saving on purchase of the latter paid for the entire cost
of operating five times over.
. In the seven years which have elapsed since this installation was
made the processes have undergone steady development, and inci-
dentally have passed through the many vicissitudes common to in-
novations in the industrial world. One of the first extensions of the
work was naturally a series of experimental precipitation chambers
in the main roaster flue of the same works. ‘Two different forms of
these are seen in figures 14 and 15. The former was of lead con-
struction similar to that of the first installation but of some ten-
fold larger capacity, while the latter was of brick and iron construc-
tion and intended for the collection of drier and less highly acid-
bearing material. Figures 16 and 17 show the 9-foot diameter brick
stack discharging these gases with the electric current respectively
off and on. Later, fundamental changes in the furnace equipment
and metallurgical practice at this plant, obviated the need for elec-
trical precipitation and the permanent installation originally con-
templated for these particular flues has never been carried out.

OPERATIONS IN SHASTA COUNTY.

The installation next in order of size to be undertaken was at the
Balaklala Smelter at Coram, Shasta County, Cal., 273 miles north
of San Francisco on the main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad
to Portland and Seattle. The vast body of low-grade copper ore
reaching for many miles across this county and commonly known as
the Copper Crescent, has been described in detail by L. C. Grafton *

1U. S. Geological Survey, Bull., 430b.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 8.

Fic. 11.—PaARTING-ROooM STACK, SELBY SMELTER, ELECTRIC CURRENT OFF.

Fic. 12.—PARTING-ROOM STACK, SELBY SMELTER, ELECTRIC CURRENT ON.
"YSLTAWS Ages ‘suaLsvoy Woud ‘YSLIAWS Agtas
3N14 QVaq NI YOLVLIdIOaYd IWLNAWINadXQ—"P] ‘DI4 YOLVLIdIOSYqd WOOY-ONILYVd WOYS ZDYVHOSIG Glow—'¢s | ‘DI

*6 3LV1d ‘\a09—'¢ 161 ‘Wodey uviuosyyiws
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 10.

Fic. 15.—EXPERIMENTAL PRECIPITATORS IN BRICK FLUE FROM ROASTERS, SELBY
SMELTER.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 11.

Fic. 16.—SELBY ROASTER STACK, ELECTRIC CURRENT OFF.

Fic. 17.—SELBY ROASTER STACK, ELECTRIC CURRENT ON.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 673

and characterized as the second largest copper deposit which can be
considered as a single geological unit in the United States. From
the viewpoint of smelter smoke litigation this region has a particu-
larly interesting history. Figure 18 shows by a rough sketch map
the location of the principal features of interest for the present dis-
cussion.

The first commercially successful smelter in this region was
erected at Keswick in 1896 by the Mountain Copper Co. (Ltd.),
under the management of Louis T. Wright, and was of especial
interest as one of the pioneers in pyritic smelting. Extensive heap
roasting was also carried on at this plant with the result of wide-
spread deforestation of the surrounding country and the final closing
down of the plant in 1905 through injunction proceedings instituted

N MAMMOTH at,
RIDAY-LOUDEN SON

Ss WY Stas >t
SHASTA KING
SBALANLALA

~Y
a sp SPREAQ Ss a
tt Ye co ¥

HGROTACK f Cords

1RON sant: Dt *, Se ff
Se ill
Stelle,

7 a

5 ° 5 10 Miles

Fic. 18.—-SKETCH MAP OF MINES AND SMELTERS OF SHASTA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

by the United States Forestry Service. The company has since built
a small smelter and acid phosphate works at Martinez, on San Fran-
cisco Bay, and now ships its ore to this point, nearly 250 miles
distant, for treatment, but even this latter plant has at various times
come in for its share of fume litigation.

In 1901 the Bully Hill Smelter, at Delamar or Winthrop, with a
capacity of 250 tons a day, was started. This was later purchased
and is now owned by the General Electric Co., but since July,
1910, it has been closed as a result of complaints by the United States
Forestry Service, who insisted at that time that the plant either
close or at least commence efforts on a practical scale looking toward
controlling its fumes.

In 1905 the Mammoth Copper Mining Co., a subsidiary of the
United States Smelting, Refining & Mining Co., blew in its present

44863°—sm 1913——-48
674. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

smelter at Kennett. This plant when running full has a capacity of
some 1,200 tons of ore per day.

The Balaklala, or First National Copper Co., was the most recent
of the Shasta County smelters, having blown in its first furnace in
1908.

These smelters are all situated in the narrow precipitous canyon
of the upper Sacramento River and its tributary, the Pitt. The
region itself is too steep and rocky for agriculture, but was once
heavily wooded, although now swept bare of vegetation for miles.
As far as the canyon itself is concerned, probably all the damage
possible has already been done unless reforestation were undertaken.
This latter even would probably be slow and difficult work, as since
the loss of vegetation the steep hillsides have been washed bare of
soil for miles around. At Redding, however, some 13 miles below
Coram and 17 miles below Kennett, the canyon widens out into the
fertile Sacramento Valley and from this point southward for some
12 miles farther les the region from which came increasingly in-
sistant complaints against the smelters. These culminated in the
spring of 1910 in agreements between the farmers and the smelters
under which friendly suits were brought in the Federal courts and
injunctions issued by stipulation requiring the smelters to remove
the suspended matter from their exit gases and dilute the latter to
such an extent that their sulphur dioxide content should not-exceed
seventy-five hundredths of 1 per cent by volume as discharged from

the stacks, with the further general and sweeping provision that they
should do no damage.

To accomplish this the Mammoth Smelter instatled a bag house,
which has been in very successful operation since July, 1910. Figure
19 is a view of this plant showing the bag house on the left in opera-
tion. It will be noted that the gases discharged from the five stacks
(each 21 feet square) are to all intents and purposes free from sus-
pended matter and consequently invisible. Thiswepresents a notable
achievement, being the first time that the bag house, so efficient in
lead smelters, has been successfully applied to copper blast furnace
gases on the large scale.

Tt is made possible in this instance through neutralization of the
sulphuric acid in the gases by the zine oxide carried over in the fume
from the very heavy zine content of the ore smelted. The company
is also the owner of patents’ on the introduction of finely divided
metallic oxides into the gases for this purpose. In addition, it was
necessary to provide an extensive system of cooling pipes, seen in.

1Clarence B. Sprague, U. S. Pats. 981515, Aug. 17, 1909, and 984498, Feb. 14, 1911.
See also W. C. Ebaugh, Journ. Indus. and Eng. Chem., vol. 1, pp 686-689 (1909) and
vol. 2, pp. 372-373 (1910). Also “ Notes on te nt Plants,” Oy A. Dilers, Trans.
Amer. Inst. Min: Eng., vol. 44, pp. 708-735 (1912).
WO ‘LLENNSY LV ‘OD ONINIW| YSddOO HLOWWV|] SHL SO 3ASNOH DVG GNV YSLTaWS—'G] ‘oly

Gi }) AeLVial ‘HOD — "E161 ‘Hodey uejuosyyiWws
WO ‘WVHOO LV HSLISEWS VivINvIvg—'0? “DI4

“€, 3LV1d ‘\Jaayogp—'e 161 ‘Hoday ueluosyziwWS
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 675

front of the bag house in the picture. There are 40 of these pipes,
each 4 feet in diameter and averaging about 200 feet in length. They
represent a very large part of the cost of the installation. It was
expected that they would be sufficient to cool the entire gases of the
plant to a safe temperature to protect the $30,000 worth of woolen
bags with which the house is filled, but upon starting up with the
gases passing through all the pipes in parallel it was found that only
a little over half the full capacity of the plant could thus be treated
with safety and operations were accordingly restricted to this. In
the cold weather of winter a considerably larger tonnage can be
handled with safety than during the hot summer. Subsequently by
rearranging the pipe connections so as to have eight groups in par-
allel, each consisting of five pipes in series, the company succeeded
in greatly increasing their efficiency as coolers, and thus materially
increased the plant capacity over that first obtained. Provision was
also made to supplement the pipe cooling by the blowing in of out-
door air when necessary. The fan power necessary to move all this
vast weight of air and furnace gases through the bags and pipe sys-
tem is of course considerable, reaching at times well up toward the
1,000-horsepower mark. Notwithstanding this, however, the bag
house is to be considered a decided success, at least for the particular
conditions met with at this plant, and the management deserves great
credit for the courage and skill with which it has carried through
this new and after all largely experimental undertaking, represent-
ing as it does the expenditure of over a quarter of a million dollars.

In the case of the Balaklala Smelter, of which figure 20 is a general
view, the use of a bag house was also considered, and in fact a small
experimental unit containing a few bags was run for some months
in comparison with tests both by the electrical process here de-
scribed and also a centrifugal apparatus in which the gases passed
through a rapidly-rotating cylindrical shell equipped with radial
baffles to sure the gas being raised to full velocity. As a result of
these tests the electrical process was adopted for the full-sized in-
stallation.

The smelter was treating from 700 to 1,000 tons of 23 to 3 per
cent ore carrying over 30 per cent of sulphur with considerable but
varying amounts of zine, the greater proportion of this being handled
in blast furnaces, but the fines including everything under an inch
and amounting to less than 10 per cent of the whole going through
MacDougal roasters and an oil-fired reverberatory. The plant has
also two converter stands. The gases from all these departments
passed into a common fiue 18 by 20 feet in cross section, an interior
view of which at the main by-pass damper is shown in figure 21.
The volume of gases passing through this fiue varied with operating
conditions from a quarter to half a million cubie feet a minute, which
676 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

means, in round numbers, a mean linear velocity in the flue shown
of 10 to 20 feet per second.

Before attempting to design the full-sized equipment for treating
these gases a small precipitation chamber capable of treating about
1 per cent of the total gases was erected and an extended set of ex-
periments made with it. Figure 22 shows this small unit with its
exhaust fan and stack. In the original tests it was located nearer
the base of the main stock, the figure showing it as later modified for
other experiments and tests.

Figures 23 and 24 indicate the degree of success attained with this
small unit in its original position, having been taken a few minutes
apart with the electric current respectively off and on, the same gas
volume issuing in both instances from the stack, which is 2 feet in
diameter.

With this miniature unit as a guide, the equipment of the whole
plant with similar apparatus was undertaken in March, 1910. This
was completed and first put into operation the end of the following
September, and with the exception of a couple of weeks in December,
remained in continuous operation until July 24, 1911, when the whole
plant shut down until such time as a practical method could be found
for removing from the gases not only the suspended solids, but the
sulphur dioxide gas as well. Experiments to this end with the Hall
process already referred to, upon at least a semicommercial scale,
have since been pursued by the Balaklala Co. at the smelter; but no
decision seems yet to have been reached regarding their commercial
practicability on the full-sized operating scale of the smelter. These
experiments on sulphur dioxide have, however, nothing fundamen-
tally to do with the electrical precipitation, and returning to this it
may be said that the nine months of operation which the plant had
amply demonstrated the entire practicability of extension of the
process to operation of this and even larger scale.

As was naturally to be expected many difficulties were encountered,
some of which were quickly overcome, while others gave way more
gradually before the systematic study of operating conditions.

Figure 25 is a plan of the nine electrical precipitation units or
chambers in their relation to the flue system and stack. It should
here be noted that the two large fans indicated in the drawing were
not required for the operation of the precipitating system nor to over-
come any resistance due to its introduction, as this latter was very
slight indeed. The fans were made necessary by that section of the
court’s decree requiring dilution of the sulphur dioxide to three-
quarters of one per cent or less. When the furnaces were running on a
high sulphur charge this feature of the decree necessitated a consider-
able dilution of the gases with fresh air and corresponding diminu-
tion of stack draft. At such times the fans were operated, but during
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 14.

Fic. 21.—DAMPER IN MAIN FLUE OF BALAKLALA SMELTER.

FiG. 22.—MAIN FLUE, STACK, AND EXPERIMENTAL PRECIPITATOR AT BALAKLALA
SMELTER.
‘NO LNSYYND O1N10379 ‘YaLITaWS "44OQ LNSYYND O1NLO3TW ‘YaLTaWS
VIVINVIVG LY HOLVLIdIOSYdq IVLNAWINSdXy WOYS SDYVHOSIQ—'bzg ‘DI4 VIVINVIVG LY HOLVLIdIOSYd IWLNSWIYSdXg WOYS JDYVHOSIG—'Ss ‘DI4

“GL 3LV1d ‘1]8}}09—'E L6| ‘Hodey ueluosy}WS
v9 'WVHOD “OO YaddOO ‘NOD VIVINVIVG “LNWId NOlLvLidloaud 40 LNAWSDNVEYY IVWYHANSD—'GS “SIF

REL selena)

SGYaTaAIL2Ie

ROLIMS

LX IE DAOTG #INSLIIY

fOr ce

DJratsaraX

OOO

SYIMHOASN YY

Bl * OSS APS

am] 1L30N

ER

Feom BLast FURNACES
REVERBERATOR Vv pep CONVERT

‘9| 3LV1d

‘aHODO— E16) ‘Hoday UR!UOsYyWS
PLATE 17.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell.

: : arenes
ees ary :
’ - U
i
PS (eee
Fa
USN
=) a 8
OR y=
Wena
r4,0 uw
FEV 0
zie
nos ites,
ba 3
Big
We «
iv}

Fume Horrer

Fic. 26.—PRECIPITATING UNIT, BALAKLALA CON. COPPER CO, CORAM, CAL.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 677

a considerable portion of the time the sulphur dioxide in the gases
could be brought low enough without interference with the draft,
and during these periods the fans were stopped entirely, although the
gases still passed through them.

At the rectifier building the current was received from the com-
pany’s three-phase power circuit at 2,300 volts, 60 cycles, and after
being transformed up to from 25,000 to 30,000 volts under the con-
trol of the operator through variable resistance and induction regu-
lators was rectified into an intermittent direct current, as already ex-
plained, and distributed to the individual precipitating units.

Figure 26 shows a cross section through one of these units or pre-
cipitating flues as first installed, and although forms of construction
have been greatly modified and improved in later installations, this
view still clearly illustrates the fundamentals of the method. The
double vertical lines represent the collecting or grounded electrodes,
each 6 inches wide by 10 feet high, made of No. 10 sheet iron. The
dotted lines represent the discharge electrodes, consisting of two
iron-wire strands between which was twisted the discharge mate-
rial, for which both asbestos and mica preparations were at various
times used in this plant. Each unit contained 24 rows of 24 elec-
trodes of each type. The collecting electrodes were carried by bars
connected directly to the frame of the chambers themselves, while
the discharge electrodes were spanned by springs between a system
of buss bars carried on externally placed insulators, as shown in the
figure. To the auxiliary chambers surrounding these insulators a
small regulated amount of air was admitted to prevent conductive
dust or fume from working back and settling on the insulators.

The cam and shaker rod extending across the middle of the unit
was originally designed for the purpose of vigorously shaking the
electrodes, as it was greatly feared that the removal of precipitate
from the electrodes in units of this size might be one of the most
serious problems. In actual operation it was found, however, that
the electrodes could easily be shaken by hand from the top entirely
free from dust, the whole operation including cutting the unit in
and out of the system and the removal and replacement of its covers,
requiring only about 10 minutes, this having to be repeated every
six or eight hours, depending on the dust content of the gases. The
precipitated dust and fume as it fell from the electrodes was carried
by the conveyor in each unit to a common longitudinal conveyor,
which in turn discharged into cars carrying it away for treatment
and recovery of its values.

Figure 27 is the interior of the rectifier house or control station,
showing the general arrangement of the apparatus and wiring.
Figure 28 shows the precipitation units in course of construction,
while figure 29 is a view over the tops of six out of the nine units
678 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

after completion. Figures 30 and 31 are photographs of the main
stack taken a few minutes apart, with the electric current respectively
off and on.

Filtration tests upon the gases before and after the electrical treat-
ment throughout the nine months of operation showed that this plant
under favorable working conditions precipitated between 80 and 90
per cent of the suspended matter in the gas, the average over the
whole period of operation being somewhat less, while after intro-
ducing improvements in detail of construction on one of the units
shortly before the final shutdown of the plant the efficiency of this
unit was carried well up into the nineties. Under average operating
conditions at the smelter some 6 to 8 tons of precipitate were col-
lected per 24 hours. Figure 32 shows this steady stream of precipi-
tated smoke as it flowed night and day from the end of the conveyor
coming from the units, and figure 33 shows the stock pile of several
hundred tons of this as it collected below the discharge.

The gas-treatmg plant as a whole, including flues, fans, motors, and
electrical apparatus, cost, up to the time it was first put in operation,
a little less than $110,000. Although many minor changes were later
made, none of the larger or more expensive elements of construction
were greatly altered.

The total average power consumption for the precipitation plant
was in the neighborhood of 120 kw. One man could readily control
the whole operation in the rectifier house, although as a matter of
precaution for a new plant under the high tension here used, two
were usually on duty. Two laborers and a foreman were employed
on the precipitating units and dust-handling system, although this
could have been reduced somewhat by automatic shaking devices, as
in the Riverside Plant described below.

The volume of gases treated varied considerably with the condi-
tions at the furnaces, but may fairly be taken as averaging between
200,000 and 800,000 cubic feet per minute, and entering the units at
from 100° to 150° C.

WORK AT OTHER WESTERN SMELTERS.

This plant, while not able to save the Balaklala smelter from an
eventual shutdown, formed a very important link in the develop-
ment of the processes to their present status. The interest of the
smelter companies up to this point depended almost entirely on the
hope of eliminating smoke as a nuisance and its attendant litigation
with their neighbors; and had it not been for the life or death
struggle that this meant to them, it is probable that the success of
the electrical processes might have been delayed many years longer.
Once brought, however, under this powerful stimulus to the state of
development above described, the importance of these processes for the -
‘YSLISWS VIVINVIVG LV LNV1d NOILVLIdIOSYdq SO NOILVLG IOYLNOD IWYLNAO—'/G ‘SIA

;

ai LTT TTL) i STH f Pema
iF ae

‘SL S31lvid ‘yaanoD—'¢ 16] ‘Hoday ueiuosyyWS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 19.

Fic. 28.—CONSTRUCTION OF PRECIPITATION CHAMBERS AT
BALAKLALA SMELTER.

Fic. 29.—VieEw ACROSS PRECIPITATION CHAMBERS AT BALAKLALA SMELTER.
‘NO LNSYYND "440 LNAYYND
OYLOIIW ‘YSLISWS VIVINVIVg ‘XOVLS NIVIAI—'LS “DId DIN LOSTA ‘YSLISWS VIVINViIvg ‘MOVLS NIVAI—'0€ “DIA

“Od 2lvid ‘]a0OD—' E16] ‘Hodey ueiuosyyUUS
‘YaLISaWS ‘Ya LIAWS ViIviINVvivg ‘SYONS
VIVINVIVG ‘SHOWS GALVLIdIOaYd JO SNOL GSYGNNH IWYSATS 4O 31d AOOLS—"EE “Ol GALVLIdIOSYd DNIDYVHOSIG YOASANOQO—'G§ “SIS

; Lo aLV1id "{]H09N— £161 “‘Hocay ueiuosYyiwS
SMOKE AND DUST. ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 679

saving of values lost through waste gases began to claim general
interest, and at present a large number of precipitating plants are
under construction and several are already operating in copper, lead,
and iron smelters, metal refineries, cement mills, and a varied set of
chemical industries.

It is unnecessary here to describe any of these plants in great
detail as they represent essentially the same principles as those
already discussed, but the accompanying illustrations may serve to
give an idea of the present trend of the subject.

Figures 34 and 35 show current on and off in an experimental unit
erected about the end of 1911 at the Garfield copper smelter in Utah
to treat the gases from basic lined converters handling a copper
matte carrying a small percentage of lead. In this case 5-inch steel
pipes carrying the gases acted also as grounded or collecting elec-
trodes, the discharge electrodes being wires stretched axially within
them. The deposited material was shaken down from time to time by
striking the pipes with a system of hammers attached to the rocking
shafts seen in the picture passing behind the front row of pipes. A
pile of this deposit, consisting chiefly of basic lead sulphate, carrying
gold, silver, and other values is seen on the ground to the right.
This unit consisted of 24 pipes and was followed by another one of
600 pipes, which was successfully operated for about a month on
steady tests taking the whole of the gas from one large basic con-
verter and part of the time a part of that from another one as well.
A part of this equipment was then moved to a point where gases from
the other departments—that is, blast furnaces, reverberatories, and
roasters—could also be secured, and experiments continued on each
of these and on mixture of them. They were all found to be easily
handled. The others in fact even more easily than the converter
gases shown above, but these latter contained the highest values.
This installation is seen in figure 36, the small building to the right
containing the transformer and rectifier, while one of the large
catenary flues appears in the background. Having determined to
build a new flue system and dust chamber for the blast furnace and
converter gases at Garfield, it was decided to incorporate an electrical
precipitation plant for the treatment of all the converter fumes.
This entire project is now under construction, and in the planning of
this flue system provision has also been made for the installation of
an electrical precipitation plant for the treatment of blast fur-
nace gases, should it later be decided to do so. The precipitation
plant for the converter gases is expected to be in operation by fall of
this year.?

1“ Hlectrical Fume Precipitation at Garfield,’ by W. H. Howard. Paper presented at
Salt Lake meeting Amer. Inst. Min, Eng. Aug. 11, 1914, and later to appear in the
Transactions,
680 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Another installation to treat about 100,000 cubic feet of gas per
minute and consisting of 384 pipes, each 13 inches in diameter, is
also under construction at the lead smelter of the = Min-
ing & Smelting Co. at Trail, British Columbia.

Another unit of tubular type is seen in figure 37. In this case the
pipes are of lead 12 inches in ‘diameter and 12 feet long. This unit
was constructed at Anaconda to collect the copper and acids vola-
tilized from an 80-ton experimental MacDougall furnace, roasting
low-grade sulphide tailings with salt preparatory to leaching.’ Fig-
ures 38 and 39 are the same, with the electric circuit of some 60,000
volts, respectively, off and on.

Where the material collected is largely liquid or saturated with
acid, as in this case, both wood stave and vitrified terra-cotta pipes
up to 2 feet in diameter have also been used with success, and with
dry material iron-pipe construction has been successfully employed
rp to 386 inches diameter and 20 feet in length. In these larger pipes
several discharge electrodes are sometimes employed, carried on a
central support.

This type of construction, where applicable, has eg much to sim-
plify and reduce cost of inetallnizon:

ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION AND GASEOUS CONSTITUENTS.

The electrical process, it must be remembered, precipitates only sus-
pended particles, be they liquid or solid, but does not in itself extract
any of the truly gaseous constituents of the mixture under treatment.
What is gas under one set of conditions may, however, be solid or
liquid under others. Thus recent experiments upon arsenic-refining
furnaces at Anaconda have indicated the practicability of installing
two precipitating units in series, the first treating the hot gases as
they come directly from the furnaces roasting crude flue dust, their
temperature at this point being so high that the arsenic is for the
most part in the form of true gas, and only the nonvolatile dust me-
chanically carried over by the draft is precipitated. Beyond this
unit the gases are cooled by admixture of cold air, and the arsenic
separates as a cloud of solid fume, which is then precipitated in a
state of high purity in the second electrical precipitation.

This principle might, of course, also be applied in a greater num-
ber of stages to mixtures of materials of different volatilities and
in this way opens up new possibilities for the application of frac-
tional distillation and condensation.

Another indirect method of removing a particular gaseous con-
stituent from a mixture by the electrical processes is illustrated by —

1“ Roasting and Leaching Tailings at Anaconda, Mont.,” by Frederick Laist, Bull.
Amer. Inst. Min. Eng., vol. 79, pp. 1147-1162, July, 1913.

PLATE 22.

ELECTRIC CURRENT OFF.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ON.

1913.—Cottrell.

o
WwW
=
=I
W
=
op)
a)
=
a
w
a
<
1)
Ss
z
<z
al
ao
oc
Ww
lel
[ead
ut}
>
Zz
jo)
oO
loot
<
a
e}
jE
<
=
B:
()
iat)
jou
oO
ce!
<
j=
Zz
WwW
=
jou
ul
a
x
uJ

| .
+
(99)
S
LL

Fic. 35.—EXPERIMENTAL PRECIPITATOR AT CONVERTER PLANT, GARFIELD SMELTER,

Smithsonian Report,

Smithsonian Report, 1913,—Cottrell. PLATE 23

Fic. 36.—EXPERIMENTAL PRECIPITATOR ON MAIN FLUES, GARFIELD SMELTER.

Fic. 37.—PRECIPITATOR ON ROASTER FLUE OF EXPERIMENTAL
LEACHING PLANT, ANACONDA, MONT.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 24.

Fic. 38.—DISCHARGE FROM ANACONDA LEACHING PLANT PRECIPITATOR, ELECTRIC
CURRENT OFF.

Fic. 39.—DISCHARGE FROM ANACONDA LEACHING PLANT PRECIPITATOR, ELECTRIC
CURRENT ON.
‘N3LSAS YOLVINSN| DNIMOHS “OD IVOINAHOONLOSITA YSNOOH LV HOLVLIdIOAYd—‘OP “DI

"Go ALVid "au}09—'€ 16] ‘Oday ueluosyyIWS
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 681

an installation now in operation at the Hooker Electrochemical Co.,
Niagara Falls, where the exit gases of the chloride of lime factory
are freed from their last traces of chlorine by first blowing into them
as they travel along finely divided slaked lime and a little farther
down the flue recovering this again by the precipitation unit shown
in figures 40 and 41. Although the lime thus remains in the gases
only a few seconds, it is in such a fine state of subdivision that absorp-
tion is complete and the gases leave the treater without a trace of
odor.

Still another application, which in a sense is almost the reverse
of this procedure, has been worked out in connection with the drying
of solutions and emulsions, such as milk and other unstable material,
by atomizing them in a fine spray into warm dry air and collecting
by electrical precipitation the fine dry powder left by the evaporation
of the microscopic droplets as they float along.

ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION AND ORDINARY COAL SMOKE.

As to the relation of electrical precipitation to the problem of
ordinary coal smoke, it has already been pointed out in the early
portion of this article that the most general solution of the coal-
smoke problem les in better combustion, and that what is here
needed is not so much a method for collecting smoke as one for pre-
venting its original formation. However, for some time to come,
and, in some special cases perhaps permanently, precipitation methods
may prove a stepping stone and useful adjunct. For example, in
power plants having a high peak load, 1. e., a very high power de-
mand for a short period of the day as compared with the remainder
of the time it is often impracticable to operate over this peak
load without producing some black smoke unless a much larger
furnace and boiler equipment is installed than is required for the
average load. In such cases the installation and operation of precipi-
tation apparatus to take care of this peak-load interval may prove
more economic than that of the addition of boilers and furnaces
otherwise required. The locomotive smoke from railroad round-
houses seems another legitimate field until electrification of steam
roads in cities shall become more general. Again there are the
stacks of certain furnaces in steel works where for metallurgical
purposes it has become established procedure (even though we may
question the absolute necessity) to carry a smoky flame for insuring
a reducing atmosphere.

The electrical treatment of this kind of smoke presents little new
in the way of difficulties from the technical side save in the me-
chanical details of removing the light fluffy soot from the electrodes
after deposition. Figures 42 and 43 show two installations for this
682 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

purpose, the first upon the discharge from the checker brick super-
heaters in a western gas works where gas for household use is gen-
erated by the decomposition of crude petroleum, and the second a
precipitation unit installed on the flue from an 80-horsepower boiler
at the United States Bureau of Mines Fuel Experiment Station,
in Pittsburgh. Figures 44 and 45 show the effect upon the appear-
ance of the stack from this latter unit produced by switching the
electric current off and on while carrying a badly smoking soft coal
fire in the furnace.

In this connection should also be mentioned the work of the late
Dr. Robert Kennedy Duncan and his associates, in the Mellon Insti-
tute of Industrial Research, at the University of Pittsburgh. To Dr.
Dunean is due in a very large measure the credit for bringing to
public notice in a practical form the possibilities and importance of
more systematic and effective cooperation between the academic and
industrial agencies of the country. Asa part of the system of indus-
trial fellowships which he had built up* and in whose further devel-
opment he was actively engaged at the time of his death, was one
group of problems centering about the smoke nuisance with some-
what more special reference to conditions in Pittsburgh.

Through the public spirited interest and generosity of the Mellon
family of that city, these smoke investigations were enabled to as-
sume a very comprehensive scope, several valuable bulletins? hav-
ing already been issued as a result. As Prof. Duncan had the good
fortune to see his dreams grow to a permanent foundation in his life-
time we may look forward to further results of ever growing useful-
ness from this source.

Among the various aspects of the smoke problem which received
attention at the Mellon Institute was that of electrical precipitation,
and as a result several papers by Dr. W. W. Strong, one of the
fellows, bearing particularly upon the theory of the processes, have
since appeared, together with patents,t upon smoke indicators and
recorders involving these principles,

10On certain Problems Connected with the Present-Day Relations Between Chemistry
and Manufacture in America, by Robert Kennedy Duncan, Jour. Ind. and Eng. Chem.,
vol. 3, pp. 177-186, March, 1911.

2Mellon Institute of Industrial Research and School of Specific Industries, University
of Pittsburgh: Bull. No. 1, Outline of the Smoke Investigation; Bull. No. 2, Bibliography
of Smoke and Smoke Prevention, by Ellwood H. McClelland; Bull. No. 3, Psychological
Aspects of the Problem of Atmospheric Smoke Pollution, by J. E. Wallace Wallin; Bull.
No. 4, The Economic Cost of the Smoke Nuisance to Pittsburgh ,by John J. O’Connor, Jr. ;
Bull. No. 5, The Meteorological Aspect of the Smoke Problem, by Herbert H. Kimball ;
Bull. No. 6, Papers on the Effect of Smoke on Building Materials, by Raymond C. Benner ;
sull. No. 7, The Effect of the Soot in Smoke on Vegetation, by J. F’. Clevenger.

2The Electrical Precipitation of Suspended Matter in Gases, by W. W. Strong, Jour.
Franklin Inst., vol. 174, pp. 239-263, September, 1912; The Positive and the Negative
Corona and Electric Precipitation, by W. W. Strong, Proc. Amer. Inst. Hlec. Eng., June
27, 1913, vol. 32, pp. 1805-1814; The Theory of the Remoyal of Suspended Matter from
Gases, by W. W. Strong, Jour. of Industrial and Eng. Chem., vol. 5, pp. 858-860,
October, 1913.

4U. S. Pats, 1070556, 1071532, and 1096765.
‘“SNOILOSNNOO 3N14 GNV NV+ ONIMOHS “OO IVOINSHOOYLOSI YaANOOH LV HOLVLIdIOSYd—'|P SIf

"90 3LW1d anog— E161 ‘Hodey uejuosypiuis
"HOUNESLLId ‘LNV1d Y3aTIOg SANIW) 30 NVAYNG LV YOLVLIGIOSYq—'Sp “DI4

‘SHYOM SVD ALID NI HOLVLIdIOSYd—‘Sp ‘DI

*

:

‘Lé 31vV1d "leHoDO—"E 16] ‘Hodey ueiuosyziws
“NO LNAYYEND *44OQ LNAYYND
DINLOSTA ‘YOLVLIdIOSYd LNVId YATIOG WOUS HOVLS—*GyH “Ol OINLOATIA ‘YOLVLIdIOSYq LNVId YATIOG WOYS MOVLS—'pH ‘DIS

ho SEI "{]an109—"€ 16] ‘vodey uejuosyyiWS
PLATE 29.

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell.

ie

>

ig
nee.
COEF I nt ne td
toot
: \
4 rf E
2 7 kh

an

Fic. 46.—CONSTRUCTION OF ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION PLANT AT RIVERSIDE PORTLAND

CEMENT WORKS.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 6838
PROBLEMS OF THE PORTLAND-CEMENT INDUSTRY.

The Portland-cement industry is another direction in which the
precipitation process has proved of very practical importance. The
first installation of this kind was made under the direction of Mr.
Walter A. Schmidt at the mill of the Riverside Portland Cement Co.
near Riverside, Cal. Threatened litigation with the owners of sur-
rounding orange groves on account of nuisance and damage to fruit
and trees from the dust clouds of lime and clay escaping from the
cement kilns was the incentive for the cement company undertaking
the work. The company had already spent upward of a million
dollars in purchases of surrounding land and other expenses con-
nected with the nuisance and damage question, but without securing
permanent relief. Experimental work on electrical precipitation was
commenced there in the summer of 1911; and as this was almost the
first practical extension of the processes to temperatures of 400°
to 500° C., many new engineering features had to be worked out.
The details of the final plant seen in construction in figure 46 and
in its present complete form in figure 47 were worked up through the
series of preliminary experimental units of progressively increasing
size shown in figures 48 to 51. Had there been sufficient ground space
available near the base of the kiln stacks the precipitating units
might have been placed there and a more compact and far less expen-
sive installation secured; but as it was, the only available space
seemed that above the roof at the top of the old stacks. Further-
more, the cement company preferred to incur this additional expense
rather than suffer any delay or interruptions of its regular operations
while changes were being made in the flues or stacks themselves.

Consequently a reinforced concrete platform 90 by 190 feet was
built 80 feet above the ground, strong enough to support the entire
electrical equipment upward of 1,200 tons of steel going into the
installation as a whole. The present plant consists of 10 rotary
kilns, each 8 feet in diameter by 100 feet in length, fired with crude
petroleum and furnishing a total volume of nearly a million cubic
feet of gas per minute to be treated. Out of this the electrical equip-
ment now collects nearly a hundred tons of dust per day. Figures
52 and 53 show the difference in appearance of the plant before and
after making the electrical installation. In figure 49 can also be seen
the experimental treater shown in figure 48. Figure 54 shows part of
five days’ catch of dust sacked and piled.

The treaters are of somewhat the same general type as those used
at the Selby and Balaklala smelters, but larger, with wider electrode
spacing and many improvements over these in details and general
design. There are 20 of them in all, two to each kiln stack con-
nected to it on opposite sides through louvre dampers, such as seen in
684 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

figure 55. The grounded electrodes are plates of heavy wire screen
reinforced by angle iron ribs, and the discharge electrodes are light
iron wires.

Figure 56 shows the operating gallery running the whole length of
the row of treaters and containing the motor-generator sets, recti-
fiers, and transformers, together with their control switchboards, as
well as the compressed-air valves governing the operating machinery
of the damper and the shaking devices for dislodging the dust from
the electrodes. This dust falls into hoppers, from whence it passes
by a system of screw conveyors and automatic scales to the storage
and car-loading bins. The whole installation requires but one oper-
ator, and the electrical-power consumption, including motor-gen-
erator and transformer losses, is about 35 kilowatts. The cost of the
installation was somewhat less than $200,000. As stated, it was in-
stalled purely to overcome the dust nuisance, and was not expected
to return any significant values, as the dust is not finished cement,
but chiefly raw mix carried out by the gases before it has reached
the clinkering zone. The raw mix used contains, however, a small
percentage of potash (usually not exceeding 1 per cent K,O), which
largely volatilizes and most of which is condensed and caught in solu-
ble form in the dust, making the latter, even in its crude form, as
collected, a fertilizing agent which finds a ready market at nearly
as good a price as the finished cement, or by using it over again in the
raw mix of a separate kiln a second and higher concentration of the
potash may be effected in the dust caught from this.

We thus have another example of a plant, put in at a supposed loss
purely to avoid trouble with the neighbors, proving not only to cover
its own operating expenses, but to actually pay a rather handsome
return on the very considerable investment involved. The plant has
been in uninterrupted operation on this basis since January 8, 1913.
As this article goes to press the first unit of similar character east
of the Mississippi is about to go into service, and in Europe another
is under construction.

FURTHER DEVELOPMENT IN PROGRESS.

A number of other installations, each with its features of special
interest, might also be referred to, but sufficient has been said to indi-
cate at least in outline the field developing before these processes.

As early as 1907 Mr. Erwin Moller, son of Dr. Karl Moller,
already mentioned as one of the pioneers of electrical precipitation,
had independently taken up this work in Europe and is now cooper-
ating with the American investigators whose work is described above
in the further development of the subject, having also joined with
them in the assignment of patent rights to the research corporation
for the benefit of the Smithsonian Institution.
"YSNYOOD GNVH-LHDIY Yaddf] NI LNV1d NOILVLIdIOSdq TWOlYLOATA SNIMOHS ‘SMYOAA LNAWSD GNVILYOd SGISYSAIY SO M3IA IWHYANAD—‘Zp ‘SIA

‘OS 3L1V1d ‘a0D—'C 16, ‘oday ueluosyyIWS
“SHYOAA LNAWSOD GNVILSOd AGISUSAIY SHL LV NOILVIIdIOSYd TWOIYLOATIA YOs SNLVEVddY IWLINAWIYSdxXy AIYVA—‘Srh ‘Ol

“Le aLV1d anogp—'e 161 ‘Hodey ueiuosy}iws
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 32.

Fig. 49.—EaARLY EXPERIMENTAL PRECIPITATOR AT RIVERSIDE PORTLAND CEMENT WORKS.
"SMYOM LNAWSO GNVILYOd AGISUYSAIY LV SSIGALS SAILVYVdWOD HOS G3Sf] SYOLVLIIdIOSYdq IWINSWIYSdX4 OML—'OG SI4

sO Se Lvalad ‘|}au3309—'E 16] ‘Hoday weluosyzIWS
‘SHYOM LNAW3SD GNVILYOd SGISHSAIY LY NIM ANO WOYS S3SV5 3HL TV 1V3Yl OL LING YHOLVLIdIOSYq 1SYI4—"|G ‘DIF

‘pE 3LV1d

"121709 —"E 161 ‘odey ueiuosyywsS
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 35.

Fic. 52.—RIVERSIDE PORTLAND CEMENT WORKS BEFORE INSTALLATION OF PERMANENT
ELECTRIC PRECIPITATION EQUIPMENT.

Fic. 53.—RIVERSIDE PORTLAND CEMENT WORKS AFTER INSTALLATION OF PERMANENT
ELECTRIC PRECIPITATION EQUIPMENT.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Cottrell. PLATE 36.

Fic. 54.—Five Days’ COLLECTION OF DuST BY ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION AT RIVERSIDE
PORTLAND CEMENT WORKS.

Fig. 55.—DAMPER OF ONE OF THE TWENTY ELECTRIC
PRECIPITATION CHAMBERS OF THE RIVERSIDE PORTLAND
CEMENT WORKS.
PLATE 37

Cottrell.

913.—

1

sonian Report,

+h

Smi

Fic. 56.—OPERATING GALLERY OF ELECTRIC PRECIPITATION

NT WokkKS.

PLANT AT RIVERSIDE PORTLAND CEM

Fic. 57.—LODGE VACUUM VALVES AND CONTROL APPARATUS.
SMOKE AND DUST ABATEMENT—COTTRELL. 685

Sir Oliver Lodge and his sons are also once more active in this
field and are likewise joining very cordially in the general spirit of
cooperation. Their recent technical contributions to the subject?
have been chiefly in the lines of rectification and insulation. Figure
57 shows some of this high potential current rectifying apparatus,
the most novel and essential element of which is a special form of
vacuum tube which permits the current to flow through it only in
one direction. This may be used either by itself or preferably in
conjunction with a mechanical rectifier such as those already de-
scribed. It appears to have been first devised and used for experi-
ments on the stimulation of growing crops by high potential unidi-
rectional discharges,” but its applicability and importance in precipi-
tation work is now being thoroughly investigated, and positive data
on this from large-scale tests should soon be available. It is only
within the last year that a really active commercial development of
the electric precipitation processes has been undertaken in Europe,
but at the present time several installations are under construction
in various countries, and it is hoped that later a detailed report of
this work may also be possible.

1 British Patents 25047 and 25047a (1905), also 29268 and 29269 (1912).
2 Jobn Ernest Newman and Lionel Lodge, Brit. Pat. 17046 (1907).
TWENTY YEARS’ PROGRESS IN MARINE
CONSTRUCTION.1

3y ALEXANDER GRACIE, M. V..O., M. Inst. C. Es.

In order to appreciate fully the progress which has been made
during the last 20 years in the design and construction of vessels for
the mercantile marine, it will be useful to consider briefly the factors
for and against advance, so as the better to realize in what direction
forward steps have been and may still be possible.

The driving forces toward all progress are healthy discontent
with what has been done and the satisfaction derived from greater
achievement, quite as much as the hope of material gain. The aim
of the shipowner, the naval architect, and the marine engineer is
ever toward increased comfort, speed, and economy.

Increase in size is undoubtedly the most valuable resource of the
naval architect, as it is directly conducive to the attainment of these
three desiderata. The greater the length of a vessel in proportion
to her total weight, the smaller becomes the power in relation to her
displacement and speed. Greater size gives more deck space for pas-
senger accommodation, greater height above water, and less disturb-
ance due to wave motion; hence, greater comfort. The earning fac-
tors, space and displacement, are increased in greater ratio than the
cost factors, and thus economy is obtained.

A concrete example illustrative of these principles may possibly be
of interest. J will take the case of a cargo vessel having a speed of
13 knots at sea over a 3,000-mile voyage. On a length of 400 feet
we can construct a vessel weighing 3,700 tons which would carry
4,000 tons of cargo and consume 500 tons of coal. Each 100 tons of
cargo, therefore, involves 92$ tons of constructive material and 124
tons of coal per voyage. <A vessel 500 feet in length would weigh
6,750 tons, would carry 8,700 tons of cargo, and consume 700 tons of
coal. Each 100 tons of cargo in this case requires only 774 tons of
vessel and 8 tons of fuel.

The practical success of the large vessel depends, of course, upon
the volume of passenger and cargo traflic she can command, and this

1The James Forrest Lecture for 1913, delivered at meeting of the Institution of Civil
Engineers, London, Oct. 23, 1913. Reprinted by permission from “ Excerpt Minutes of
Proceedings of The Institution of Civil Engineers,” vol. 194, session 1912-1913, pt. 4.

687
688 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

varies greatly on the different trade routes. It is notably greatest
upon the Atlantic, and in this trade we find the most rapid growth in
dimensions.

It is the continued aim of the naval designer to realize the greatest
dimensions which the shipowner can utilize on the least possible
weights of hull, machinery, and fuel. Every improvement in the
quality of materials, every advance in the better distribution of those
materials toward the end in view, every reduction in the weight of
machinery and of fuel in relation to horsepower, and every pro-
gression toward the more effective use of the power developed, is
a step toward the ideal large, powerful, and comparatively light
vessel.

The introduction of iron about the year 1820, of steel about 1870,
of the compound engine in 1854, and of the triple-expansion engine
in 1881, were the most notable epoch makers of the first 80 years of
steam navigation. The study of the strength problem by means of
the “ girder ” theory and the labors of the classification societies have
shown how to combine strength with lightness. The introduction
of the experimental tank method of research gave us a definite means
of designing form and propellers, so that the least possible amount
of power is wasted and the greatest possible amount is usefully
appled.

Up to the beginning of the period under consideration the changes
which had taken place in marine engineering had been shown in a
gradual development of the simple type of reciprocating steam
engine. The growing knowledge of the theoretical principles in-
volved in design, the higher standard of materials available for
construction, and the steady improvement in machine tools, had
enabled engineers successfully to make use of higher steam pressures.
The advance marked by the successful introduction of the compound
engine about the year 1854 had been followed in 1881 by the intro-
duction of the triple-expansion type of engine, and the three-crank
design of the latter proved itself so fit a variation that it has sur-
vived, unchanged in all essentials, to the present day. Thus 20 years
ago the triple-expansion engine was in the position of rapidly super-
seding the compound type in almost all services, and was being suc-
cessfully constructed to work in conjunction with steel cylindrical
boilers working at a pressure of 160 pounds per square inch; both
engines and boilers being, in general design, not greatly different
from those of the same type which are being built at the present
time.

I can best convey to you the condition of marine construction at
the beginning of the 20-year period immediately under review by
recalling some of the most notable achievements of that time.
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 689

On the Atlantic the premier vessel was the Campania, then re-
garded as a “monster” ship. It was thought by many that the limit
of size had been reached and that so large a vessel could never be
made commercially successful. She was 600 feet in length, with a
beam of 65 feet and a depth of 41 feet 6 inches. Her gross tonnage
was 13,000, her trial speed 22 knots, and her horsepower 30,000. She
was, of course, fitted with twin screws, and her engines were of the
triple-expansion type, with five cylinders working on three cranks.

The condensers were of cast iron, and, as was usual at that time,
formed part of the engine framing. No arrangements were made for
balancing the inertia effects of the reciprocating parts. The main
boilers were of the double-ended cylindrical type, with a working
pressure of 165 pounds per square inch. They burned about 14 pounds
of coal per indicated horsepower-hour and 480 tons daily. Of
Campania’s displacement 485 per cent was devoted to hull, 214 per
cent to machinery, 14} per cent to fuel, 44 per cent to passengers,
stores, and water, and 11 per cent to cargo.

The Campania carried 570 first-class, 300 second-class, and 600
third-class passengers, and a crew of 400. Her first-class public
rooms were six in number; they occupied a total area of 9,214 square
feet, or an average of about 16 square feet per passenger, while the
average stateroom area was about 174 square feet per person. The
average number of persons per room was 3.2. Second-class passen-
gers had each but 8 square feet of public room and 14 square feet
of stateroom.

Compared with the most modern vessels of large size the Campania
was shallow, the ratio of length to structural depth being 14.45.
In consequence of her somewhat unfavorable proportions as a girder
the scantlings of her gunwale and bottom had to be very heavy in
order to obtain the necessary longitudinal strength, and it was some
years before ships were built in which the upper member of the
strength girder was raised to a higher deck. The Kaiser Wilhelm
der Grosse, built in 1897, surpassed Campania in length by 25 feet,
but although her sides amidships, as in most subsequent vessels, were
plated one deck space higher than in Campania, the plating was com-
paratively light, the deck to which it extended was not plated over,
and the top member of her strength girder remained at the upper
deck, the length-depth ratio being slightly in excess of that of
Campania. Her ocean speed was about 22% knots, with 30,000 indi-
cated horsepower. Her ccal capacity was 4,600 tons. She had
accommodation for 600 first-class, 300 second-class, and 800 third-
class passengers.

In 1900 came the Deutschland, 663 feet in length, similar in appear-
ance and structural arrangements to her immediate predecessor, her

44863°—sm 1918——44
690 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

length-depth ratio being over 15, and the main girder stopping at
the upper deck level, 44 feet above the keel. Her horsepower was in
the neighborhood of 35,000 and her ocean speed was about 234 knots;
capacity for 4,800 tons of coal was provided. The engines were of
the greatest actual dimensions reached in the reciprocating type,
and were of the four-crank quadruple design. The Deutschland
accommodated 700 first-class passengers in 266 rooms, an average of
about 2.6 persons per room; 300 second-class, and 290 third-class
passengers. Luxuries were beginning to creep in, some of the state-
rooms having a private bathroom attached, while for the suites as
much as £250 was charged for a single voyage.

In 1901 length was increased by 20 feet in the Celtic, built for the
White Star Line; she was 680 feet in length, with a beam of 75 feet
and a depth of girder of about 52 feet. In this, as in most vessels of
the White Star fleet, only a comparatively low speed was provided.
The consequent smallness of horsepower reduced both first cost and
fuel consumption, while the fuller form gave roomier deck spaces
and greater dead-weight carrying capacity. Since the total dead-
weight was augmented and the proportion given up to coal reduced
there was a twofold increase in the weight of freight-earning cargo.
Speed is an expensive item. On the length of 680 feet a 16-knot ves-
sel can carry 12,000 tons of cargo on an expenditure of 2,000 tons of
coal over an Atlantic voyage, while an advance in speed to 22 knots
would reduce cargo to 3,000 tons and involve a coal consumption of
3,500 tons, besides increasing first cost by about 25 per cent.

Next year came Aaiser Wilhelm II, 684 feet long and 444 feet in
depth to her upper deck, but with her sides plated all fore and aft
up to the level of a continuous promenade deck 84 feet above the up-
per deck. Her depth of girder was thus 524 feet, and her length-
depth ratio only 13. <A better distribution of structural material was
realized, and excessively heavy local scantlings were avoided. Be-
sides having her main structural weights higher than usual, she had
one deck more above her main structure than any of her predecessors,
and these additions to the weight and height of her upper structure
necessitated a corresponding increase in breadth, which was made 72
feet, as compared with Campania’s 65 feet and Deutschland’s 67 feet.
Similar increments in transverse dimensions in relation to length
have characterized all subsequent advances, and the number of super-
structures has steadily increased in order to afford deck space for
the greater number of public rooms and more spacious cabin accom-
modation by which each successive vessel was rendered more and yet
more attractive. Hatser Wilhelm IT had four engine rooms, in which
were developed about 45,000 indicated horsepower, and a speed of
over 234 knots was maintained at sea. Her coal capacity was 5,000
tons. Accommodation was provided for 770 first-class, 350 second-
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—-GRACIE. 691

class, and 780 third-class passengers. Four hundred pounds was
charged for a suite of rooms.

The power transmitted per shaft in this vessel was about 25 per
cent greater than in the previous unit, and two three-crank quadruple
engines were fitted to each line of shafting in order to reduce the
dimensions of the cylinders and working parts, a scheme which lent
itself naturally to more complete subdivision into watertight com-
partments. This arrangement, which was also tried in some naval
vessels, was, however, not repeated in later practice. The machinery
of this ship exerts the largest power of any installation of reciprocat-
ing engines in the merchant service, the next advance in total effort
being with turbine machinery.

Within the next few years there appeared the Cedric, Amerika,
and Kaiserin Augusta Victoria, all about 680 feet in length, and car-
rying still further the development in number and extent of super-
structures, public rooms, and luxurious cabin accommodation. The
Amerika had six decks above the water line, as compared with Cam-
pania’s four. In none of these vessels was high speed attempted.

The further development of the reciprocating engine since the be-
ginning of the period under survey has been in the use of still higher
initial pressure and in the extension of the range of useful pressure
in the quadruple-expansion type of engine. The use of higher pres-
sure followed naturally upon the success of the triple engine, and
for pressures above 180 pounds per square inch the quadruple type
became necessary in order to take the fullest advantage of the in-
creased heat energy available in the steam.

Compared with the gain in fuel economy effected by the triple-
expansion over the compound engine, the further improvement due
to the increase in steam pressure to 215 or 220 pounds is naturally
small, being about 7 to 8 per cent, and against this has to be put the
increased weight, cost, and upkeep of the quadruple type. For ships
trading on long voyages, and more especially for passenger ships, or
large units, where a four-crank engine would be fitted in any case,
on account of its greater smoothness in running, the quadruple engine
has now superseded the triple-expansion type; but in the case of
cargo carriers, where low first cost and easy supervision are primary
conditions, the triple engine still holds its own.

In the essential design of the reciprocating main engine, improve-
ments seem difficult to attain. Some changes, however, may be
noted. Condensers are now usually kept separate from the main
framing, and, in order better to withstand extremes of temperature,
are frequently constructed of mild steel, instead of being cast as
formerly; much more attention is also given to their design, with
a view to improve thermal results. Air pumps have been improved
in design, and in most large or fast-running machinery are now
Sd

692 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

fitted as separate auxiliary engines, instead of being driven from
the crossheads, Attention has been directed to devising means of
balancing the engines in order to reduce vibration troubles. The
first attempt to solve the problem of balancing was made by Messrs.
Yarrow, and the method known as the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy sys-
tem is now adopted in most engines of the four-crank type. This
method consists in arranging the relative positions of the various
reciprocating and revolving masses by adjusting the angles between
the cranks so that the inertia effects are reduced to a minimum.
Reduction in fuel consumption has been obtained by the collective
effect of a number of small savings; by the improved condenser and
air pump; by the utilization of the auxiliary exhaust for feed heat-
ing; and by heat economy. in various ways.

In the constant endeavor to provide greater intensity in powér pro-
duction, increase in piston speed and rate of revolution has been
achieved through experience in design and a better quality of mate-
rial and workmanship; but where conditions of exceptional power,
or lightness per unit of power, or both of these, have to be considered,
the limitations of the reciprocating type of engine become apparent.
In addition to the difficulties of construction and management of
very large units, the reciprocating engine had, as already remarked,
reached a point where further improvement in steam consumption
was not easily attained, while further reduction in weight involved
increase in speed of rotation, with its attendant difficulties. Thus the
introduction of the steam turbine proved opportune, by providing a
way to further progress in economy, lightness, and the construction
of very large units, while at the same time eliminating vibration
troubles and relieving difficulties of engine-room management,

The turbine entered the Atlantic lists in 1905, when the Victorian
and Virginian, 520 feet in length, took up their stations, and in 1905
the 650-foot Carmania also used the new motor.

The 700-foot mark was passed in 1906 by the building of the White
Star liner Adriatic, 709 feet by 75 feet by 56 feet, with twin-screw
quadruple-expansion engines of about 15,000 indicated horsepower.

Her speed was but 15 knots, and she carried 450 first-class, 500
second-class and 1,400 third-class passengers, 2,500 tons of coal, and
6,500 tons of cargo. Of her total displacement, hull claimed about
56 per cent; machinery, 10 per cent; fuel, 8 per cent; cargo, 21 per
cent; passengers, stores, and water, about 5 per cent. A comparison
of these approximate figures with those already given for the Cam-
pania shows that, per annum, the Adriatic could carry twice as many
passengers and three and a half times as much cargo per ton of fuel
as the Campania. This well illustrates the cost of speed, and justi-
fies the enhanced rates charged to those availing themselves of the
faster vessels.
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 693

The turbine, having proved its worth in the realm of high power
and fast steaming, was boldly adopted by the Cunard Co. in the
Lusitania and Mauretania, built in 1907. These vessels surpassed all
others, with a length of 760 feet, 88 feet of beam, and 604 feet depth
of girder, The girder ratio was thus about 124, and for the first time
high-tensile steel was utilized in the upper member to meet the
higher stresses. Some lightening of structure was thus obtained.
These ships were the first mercantile vessels to have four lines of
shafting, and practically the whole of the vessel’s length was occu-
pied by boilers, machinery, and fuel. About 68,000 horsepower was
developed, and an ocean speed of between 25 and 26 knots regularly
maintained on an expenditure of about 5,000 tons of coal per voyage.
Although already surpassed in dimensions, these two vessels retain
their supremacy in speed unchallenged.

In 1908 a further step was taken with a view to securing a greater
reduction in steam consumption per effective horsepower. This con-
sisted in the combined use of the reciprocating steam engine and
turbine in order to retain the low speed of revolution of the recipro-
cating engine, with its accompanying favorable propeller efficiency,
while at the same time effectively utilizing the expansion of the steam
to the condenser pressure. The first ship to be thus fitted was the
Otaki, a vessel of 464 feet in length and about 9,900 tons dead weight
capacity ; and a comparison of this ship with a sister ship fitted with
ordinary twin-screw quadruple-expansion engines showed a differ-
ence of about 20 per cent in steam consumption per effective horse-
power in favor of the combination type of machinery.

The system is principally suited to vessels of fairly large power,
moderate speed, and for service on long voyages. The usual practice
has been to fit the reciprocating engines on the wing shafts, and
the exhaust turbine on a center shaft, an arrangement being made
for exhausting the steam from the reciprocating engine direct to the
condenser, and thus cutting out the turbine during maneuvering. ©
Combination machinery, as compared with all reciprocating machin-
ery, involves more complexity and cost, and a slight increase of
weight in the engine room; but the improved economy realizable
allows of reductions in the boiler capacity and in boiler room and
fuel weights, which more or less compensate for this, The influence
of the last item is dependent on the length of voyage.

In 1911 a length of 850 feet was reached in the White Star liner
Olympic. This luxurious vessel measures 852 feet by 92 feet by 64
feet, and has a speed of 21 knots with 46,000 horsepower combination
machinery driving three screws. She carries 735 first-class, 674 second-
class, and 1,026 third-class passengers, and has the following public
rooms: Gymnasium, reading and writing room, lounge, smoke room,
veranda and palm court, restaurant, reception room, dining saloon,
694 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

racquet court, swimming bath, and Turkish baths. Each of her finest
suites consists of sitting room, two bedrooms, bathroom, and clothes
rooms, and occupies 800 square feet or 160 square feet per person ac-
commodated.

To-day the largest vessel afloat is the 7mperator, 880 feet by 90
feet by 63 feet. Her girder ratio is 10.7, and she has eight decks above
her water line. With boilers of the Yarrow type and turbines of
62,000 horsepower driving four shafts, she has an ocean speed of
294 knots. She carries 900 first-class, 800 second-class and 2,700
third-class passengers, with a crew of 1,200, or 5,400 persons in all.
Her accommodation is the latest word in spaciousness and luxury.
For first-class passengers there are two large and three smaller dining
saloons, restaurant, grillroom, ladies’ room, ballroom, winter garden,
smoke room, gymnasium, swimming bath, and Turkish baths, the total
area given up to public rooms being 36,000 square feet, or about 40
square feet per passenger. She has 446 first-class staterooms, includ-
ing 12 suites, the average number of persons per room being thus
practically two, and the average room area 80 square feet per person.

In the all-turbine installation for the merchant service the turbines
have been mostly of the compound type—that is, with the steam pass-
ing through two turbines in series—the usual arrangement being a
three-shaft one, having one high-pressure turbine and two low-pres-
sure turbines, with the exhaust from the high-pressure turbine pass-
ing through the two low-pressure turbines in parallel. Only in some
few cases has a twin-screw arrangement been adopted—that is, with
the high-pressure turbine on one shaft and the low-pressure turbine
on the other—but a similar arrangement, duplicated, has been applied
to many of the largest installations, both naval and merchant, by
fitting two independent sets, of two turbines each, working on four
lines of shafting. With a view to improving the steam economy in
the all-turbine system, a further development has been introduced in
some recent ships of large power having a four-shaft arrangement, by
passing the steam through three turbines in series. The steam passes
through the high-pressure turbine to the intermediate-pressure tur-
bine, and then through the two low-pressure turbines in parallel,
there being one turbine on each line of shaft. The result of this is
that for the same overall length of each turbine unit (a matter of
some practical moment) the steam passes through a greater number
of rows of blades and a condition of improved efficiency is gained,
while a reduction of the blade leakage is obtained, due to the rela-
tively greater length of blade as compared with the alternative two-
series design. The improved turbine-efficiency resulting from this
arrangement thus increases the range of speed at which an all-turbine
set can successfully compete with the reciprocating engine. Several
ships with turbine machinery of this three-series type have lately
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 695

been put on service, with very satisfactory results even at compara-
tively low speeds.

The rapid development of the large, luxurious and fast liner which
I have just traced has been due to the exceptionally favorable condi-
tions of the Atlantic route. Here there is a large and steady stream
of passenger traffic, a demand for expensive and luxurious accommo-
dation, and a comparatively short distance between terminals. Fuel
of the best quality can be readily obtained on both shores. Upon the
other great ocean highways of the world these advantages do not
exist. The Pacific lane from Vancouver to Nagasaki is 67 per cent
longer than that from Liverpool to New York, Vancouver to Mel-
bourne 148 per cent longer, London to Melbourne 315 per cent, and
Southampton to Cape Town 95 per cent. Neither Japanese, British
Columbian, Australian, nor South African coal is equal to Welsh coal
in calorific value, but on the Pacific oil fuel is easily obtained, and is
already beginning to be largely used. In no case does the volume of
passenger traffic approach that across the Atlantic. As a consequence
competition is less keen, there are fewer vessels, a less number of voy-
ages per vessel, and the vessels themselves are smaller and of less
speed. Nevertheless considerable progress has been made in size,
accommodation, comfort, speed, and economy, although the advance
in speed has not been so marked as that between Britain and America.

No less interesting than vessels of the liner class are those
smaller passenger carriers known as cross-channel steamers. Be-
tween different ports in the United Kingdom and between British
-and continental ports there has always been a large passenger traffic
and the competition between the various railway and other com-
panies has developed a large fleet of small vessels, whose speeds vie
with those of Atlantic liners and whose speed-length ratios, or ratios
of speed to square root._of length, are generally in excess of liner
practice.

The conditions of these cross-channel services differ materially
from those of the liners’ routes. The distances are much shorter,
ranging from 21 to 120 miles only, and the number of times the
vessels enter harbor is much greater.

The quantity of fuel which must be carried is therefore much less,
and economy of consumption is relatively of smaller influence. It
is of greater importance to keep down tonnage, to save dues, and to
reduce weight wherever possible in order to obtain high speeds upon
small dimensions. Very few of the vessels are classed, and the
scantlings in all cases are kept as low as possible. In many cases
harbor accommodation imposes severe restrictions upon length and
draft.

Twenty years ago the majority of these vessels were paddle steam-
ers. These were gradually replaced by twin-screw steamers, and
696 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

these again were superseded by turbine-propelled craft, which to-day
are practically universal in the channel services.

Typical vessels in 1893 were the paddle steamer Calais Douvres
and the twin-screw Jbea.

The Calais. Douvres was 324 feet in length, 36 feet in breadth, and
14 feet deep; of 1,065 gross tons and 6,000 indicated horsepower, she
had a speed of 20.64 knots and a speed-length ratio of 1.15.

She was unclassed, her hull weighing 805 tons and her machinery
650 tons—94 indicated horsepower per ton—and she carried 103 tons
of coal. Her displacement was made up as follows:

Per cent.

5 GO tet ttt Na a hp Re sep See ee seas ath hee a2 eee alr shores 48
Machinery s Ais stot sate cit le ee ANS al ee 2 A ae ee 39
CC UN EEN Ee PU ao EE BEY Ee 6
Passengers stores, and waters. 2 ee eee 7
100

Her accommodation consisted of 10 deck staterooms, furnished
with sofas only, and large, open saloons below deck. She carried
580 first-class and 300 second-class day passengers.

The Jbex, of 1,062 gross tons, measured 265 feet by 324 feet by
154 feet, and with 4,200 indicated horsepower realized a speed of
19.37 knots, the speed-length ratio being 1.19. Her machinery devel-
oped 104 indicated horsepower per ton and her weights were thus
distributed :

Per cent.
ERS SUE 2a Ue tas. Se OE Se 60
Mave hime reyes texte | as vee ch ny ae ee eee 30
Conde tie 7 ewe a he ie ee 2 eee 43
Passenversy.stores, and water2eo2 os. Te eee 5s
100

Her accommodation consisted of two private cabins and a number
of open saloons with sleeping accommodation on sofa berths. She
carried 292 first-class and 265 second-class day passengers.

Other notable vessels of this period were:

Speed-

Name. Machinery. Length. | Tonnage.| Speed. length

ratio.
‘Princesseyelenriette: ase. 255... ss see Paddles. eee 300 1, 100 20.50 1.18
1 O77) 010) (6 BG es ee ee eam n ne sor |scane Goss ses one ee 340 1,367 22.00 1.19
Princess) Maya hace 2 ss ehess. 35 Se eich eee dorsts See 280 1,123 20. 00 1.19
TRULISOtmes saeco ae cence ee Se. eae Twin screw.....-- 269 892 21.35 1.30
Hredericaseas... Pisete abe. cat Sees. os GOR shes. Sas 265 1,059 19.50 1.20

During the succeeding 10 years many other similar vessels were
put into service, their lengths ranging from about 270 up to 300 feet
and their speeds from 19 to 24 knots. The most remarkable of these
were perhaps the four screw steamers Connaught, Leinster, Munster,
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION——GRACIE. 697

and Ulster, which, on a length of 360 feet, attained a speed of 244
knots, a speed-length ratio of 1.28, and the Zmpress Queen, still the
largest paddle vessel in this country, 360 feet in length and of 214
knots speed.

In 1903, encouraged by the success of the turbine steamers Hing
Edward and Queen Alexandra, built, respectively, in 1901 and 1902
for service on the Firth of Clyde, the first turbine channel steamer,
The Queen, was placed on the Dover-Calais route. This notable ves-
sel, 310 feet by 40 feet by 25 feet, of 1,676 gross tons, has turbine
machinery of about 8,500 horsepower, and attained a speed of 21.8
knots, equal to 1.24 times the square root of her length. In the same
year the turbine steamer Brighton, 274 feet in length, steamed 21.37
knots, giving a speed-length ratio of 1.29. The success of these two
vessels led to a rapid development of turbine propulsion, and the
almost total abandonment of reciprocating machinery in the channel
services. In 1905 the Princess Hlizabeth, with turbines and water-
tube boilers, made 24 knots on 357 feet, and the Dzeppe, with turbines
and cylindrical boilers and classed at Lloyd’s, brought the speed-
length ratio up to 1.31, with 21.65 knots and a length of 274 feet.

To attain high speeds in relation to length, saving of weight is of
vital importance, and the advantages of' water-tube boilers in this
respect are considerable. All that prevented their more general
adoption was their lack of robustness and the greater care and skill
required in handling them, as compared with the well-tried and
well-known Scotch type of steam raiser. By their use in the tur-
bine steamer Newhaven, built in 1910 as successor to the Dieppe, a
trial speed of 23.85 knots was obtained on a length of 292 feet, the
speed-length ratio being raised to 1.4. This result was made possi-
ble by the extreme lightness of the machinery installation in relation
to the power developed, 13,000 horsepower being obtained from a
weight of only 590 tons. Thus 22 shaft horsepower was developed
per ton, about two and a half times that obtained from paddle ma-
chinery and double the output of twin-screw reciprocating engines.
The displacement of the Newhaven was 1,510 tons, only 200 tons in
excess of that of the Dieppe, although the later vessel was 18 feet
longer and twice as powerful.

The outstanding difficulty in applying the steam turbine to marine
propulsion has always been that while high speed of rotation is neces-
sary to obtain the maximum turbine efficiency, the propellers are most
efficient at very much lower speeds. Electric, hydraulic, and gear-
wheel transmission have each been used to combine a high-speed
turbine with a slow-running propeller in order to obtain the maxi-
mum efficiency of each.

Where a suitable gear ratio can be adopted, not only can improved
propeller efficiency and decreased consumption of steam per unit of
698 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

power developed be obtained, but it is possible, by overspeeding the
turbines at full power, to maintain the economy over a larger range
of the ship’s speed than could be done with a direct-coupled turbine.
With the gear-wheel method of speed reduction a considerable amount
of experience has now been obtained, and up to the present time two
small cargo vessels and seven cross-channel steamers have been put on
service, while four sets each of about 12,000 horsepower are under
construction, two for ocean liners and two for swift coasters.

In 1911 the channel steamers Vormannia and Hantonia were each
fitted with four turbines, two running at 2,000 and two at 1,400 revo-
lutions, and connected by means of toothed-wheel gearing to two pro-
peller shafts running at 310 revolutions per minute. The experi-
ment was a notable success, the coal consumed per trip being only 48
tons as compared with the 70 tons used by the immediately preceding
vessels, which were of the same capacity but propelled by direct-
driven three-screw turbines.

Last summer the channel steamer Paris, 2934 feet in length and
having geared turbine propulsion, attained the remarkable speed of
25.07 knots on a run from Newhaven to Dieppe, the speed-length ratio
working out at 1.47—a result which has only been surpassed by tor-
pedo craft.

The introduction of toothed gearing for the main drive has been
looked upon by many as a retrograde step. The conditions are, how-
ever, In no way similar to those in which formerly gearing up was
necessary, and where a very variable turning moment in the recipro-
cating engine had to be contended with. The loss in transmission is
small, being probably not more than 2 per cent of the power trans-
mitted, and the wear on the teeth is inappreciable. Some objection
has been raised to the noise caused by the gearing, but, although
doubtless not so silent as the direct-driven turbine, the geared-turbine
installation can compare favorably with the reciprocating engine in
this respect. The actual vibration transmitted through the struc-
ture of the ship is inappreciable; the effect of the gearing being felt
altogether in an air vibration in the engine room itself, and this will
be reduced to a minimum with the more accurate methods of gear
cutting recently introduced.

The large speed reduction which can be effected makes the system
suitable for ships of low speed and moderate power, and it is almost
certain that this method will greatly extend the usefulness of the
steam turbine for marine propulsion.

In Germany the hydraulic transmitter invented by Dr. Fottinger
has lately been developed. The principle of the transmitter is that
cf combining a high-speed turbo-centrifugal pump with a water
turbine designed for a lower speed of revolution. The former
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 699

is coupled direct to the steam turbine and the latter to the pro-
peller shaft, the pump and water turbine being placed in one casing
and so designed that the frictional and eddy losses are reduced as
far as possible. Some small installations have been fitted for marine
purposes, a transmitter has been tested with a load of 10,000 shaft
horsepower, and it is proposed to fit several large German vessels
with the system. A transmission efficiency of about 90 per cent is
claimed at full load, with a slight reduction at light loads. The
ratio of primary to secondary speed is normally about 5:1, but trans-
mitters could be designed for larger ratios.

Electrical transmission has now been applied to several vessels.
Alternative schemes have been tried in which the power is generated
by steam turbo-generators, and by generators driven by Diesel oil
engines, and applied to the propeller by alternating-current motors.
Considering the transmission efficiencies likely to be attained and
the increased weight and initial cost of the installation, it does not
appear probable that a.system of this kind will be able to compete
successfully, in ordinary cases, with the direct-driving engine or
mechanically geared turbine. Where, however, power has to be
provided for other than propelling purposes (in which case the same
generating plant could be available), it is possible that this system
would have advantages.

Within the period under review, vessels built solely for the purpose
of carrying cargo have undergone notable development. The prin-
cipal object of the owner of such vessels is to secure improved econ-
omy in each successive addition to his fleet, speed and accommodation
being secondary considerations. And here again I have the same
story to tell—the story of increase in dimensions and of reduction in
fuel consumption in relation to work done.

The following table shows the steady advance in the vessels of one
well-known line of cargo tramps:

Tons, dead-weight.

“CaN BSS Se Cr ee See eat fee Oe PONE ee 28 ee Pee 6, 400
TROT 22 Las Ete Ne Sate ieee aaa rare Uhl ae 7, 200
ie peu nme NTU AL. 108 St 8, 200
SST Sig sped ate ee US el 0 EN eR nl 9, 300
HOTS ME MO GELUDIE IW A ATIOE TOS a tO 9, 600

The speed has remained practically constant at 11 knots, but while
the 6,400-ton dead-weight carrier of 1895 developed 1,400 indicated
horsepower and consumed 24 tons of coal daily, her successor of to-
day can carry 9,600 tons and steam at the same speed on an expendi-
ture of only 32 tons daily for 2,300 indicated horsepower. Fifty
per cent more dead weight is carried and 64 per cent more power

developed, but only 83 per cent has been added to the coal account.
700 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The coal rate has fallen from 1.6 pounds per horsepower per hour to
1.3 pounds, while for a 3,000-mile voyage the dead weight carried
per ton of coal has increased from 23.5 tons to 26.4 tons.

Rapid loading and discharge of cargo are of vital importance to
the tramp vessel, and it is evident that the less the cargo has to be
moved horizontally along holds and *tween decks before coming
under the hatchways to be lifted, the more rapidly can it be handled.
Hatches have therefore increased greatly in size, and in some vessels
are now almost continuous, and in breadth nearly equal to half the
vessel’s beam. With the same object of facilitating the passage of
cargo to and from the hatchways, hold pillars have almost disap-
peared, and in place of the double row of slender pillars at intervals
of about 4 feet, we find large open holds and decks supported by con-
tinuous longitudinal girders under the beams and four large plate-
and-angle pillars only.

The steam winch still remains the best means of handling cargo,
being more robust and less complicated than either electric or
hydraulic plants. The winches themselves have been greatly im-
proved, and instead of a single 6-inch by 10-inch winch at each hatch
and chain falls we find a pair of 8-inch by 12-inch machines with
helical gearing and wire-rope pendants. The normal derrick is now
of steel tube for a 6-ton lift in place of the old 3-ton wood derrick,
while a special steel derrick at each end of the vessel can handle a
load of 30 tons. At the same time the size of the drums has in-
creased from 12 inches to 24 inches and the working pressure from
50 to 100 pounds. Larger wearing surfaces have been provided and
locomotive-type valves fitted, so that the cargo winch of to-day is
not only more powerful and more rapid than its predecessor, but has
also greater immunity from breakdown.

Crews’ accommodation has been greatly improved. Comfortable
mess rooms are now provided separately from sleeping quarters;
galvanized-iron berths have replaced wooden bunks; steam heating
and stoves are provided; each man has a locker fitted with drawers
for his clothes, and his chest goes to a separate storeroom; there are
plunge and shower baths for seamen and for firemen as well as for
the captain, officers, and engineers, and a well-equipped hospital is
provided.

The triple-expansion engine still holds its place in the engine room
of the cargo tramp. The fourth cylinder of a quadruple engine
would mean additional complication and one or two additional engi-
neers. Three main boilers of equal size are used, two under forced
draft for propulsive purposes, the third under natural draft for
dealing with cargo and to assist the others in cases of emergency
when a little extra speed is called for.
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 701

In comparison with the 1.000 tons of coal consumed daily by the
swift liner, the 30 tons of the cargo tramp appears so small that it
would seem hardly worth while to attempt to reduce it; but the one-
half pound of oil per brake horsepower-hour of the Diesel engine,
together with the saving in weight and space and in time for bunker-
ing, is already attracting the attention of the owners of cargo
vessels, and the economy of the geared turbine proposition is also
being considered.

In numbers and dimensions there has been a rapid development
of vessels built for the carriage of petroleum in bulk. In 1893
Lloyd’s Register contained the names of 47 vessels engaged in carry-
ing oil cargoes, and 17 were in course of construction. The largest
on service was the Z'urbo, 350 feet in length, and capable of carrying
5,000 tons of oil in bulk. To-day there are 370 oil vessels on the
register, the largest being the San Fraterno, 530 feet in length, and
loading 15,700 tons of oil.

Vessels specially fitted with refrigerated holds for the carriage of
perishable cargoes, such as fruit and meat, have also been greatly
developed and improved.

The steam yacht has passed through structural changes not dis-
similar to those which have affected mercantile vessels. Dimensions
have generally increased and superstructures have been added. The
weather deck is now higher above water, and the principal accommo-
dation and public rooms are carried out to the ship’s side in place of
being confined to a long deckhouse. Turbine propulsion has in
many cases been adopted with success in place of reciprocating
engines.

I regret that within the limits of the time at my disposal this
evening I can not refer in detail to many other notable changes
which have taken place during the past 20 years, such as the disap-
pearance of the sailing ship, the wide application of engine power to
fishing boats, barges, and other small craft, and the remarkable
performances of the hydroplane boat. These would of themselves
iake up an entire evening.

With regard to the changes in boiler design and construction, these
have been small. The cylindrical boiler has remained almost un-
changed in general design during the last 20 years. Boiler shell
plating, owing to the higher pressures now adopted, is much heavier,
and where weight is a consideration is often of high-tensile steel.
Boilers of the water-tube type, which have entirely superseded those
of the cylindrical type in warships, have made but little progress in
the favor of the average shipowner, and have been adopted only to a
very limited extent in merchant ships in this country. Recently,
however, their great advantages in lightness have secured their adop-
702 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion in several channel steamers, and some small Australian vessels
liave been fitted with boilers of the Babcock-Wilcox type. A con-
siderable departure has been made in the fitting of the large German
Atlantic vessel /mmperator with boilers of the Yarrow type; and in a
large liner at present under construction on the Clyde, Babcock-
Wilcox water-tube boilers are being adopted.

The increasing cost of fuel, and the economy obtainable by the use
of superheated steam, has tended to hasten development in that direc-
tion, and a fair number of ships, including the liner under construc-
tion, just referred to, are being fitted with superheaters. A saving
of 10 to 15 per cent in fuel consumption has been shown to be pos-
sible, and it is likely that superheating will be much more widely
adopted in the near future.

With regard to the gain in fuel economy, brought about by the
developments which have taken place, it is difficult, owing to the
varying factors involved, to state this in general terms. Average
values, however, are given in the table opposite.

The problem of mechanical stoking, which has been successfully
solved for the less severe conditions of land practice, still awaits solu-
tion as regards conditions afloat. Ideal conditions in this respect
would be more easily reached by the extended use of liquid fuel, the
advantages of which are obvious. Much progress has been made in
perfecting apparatus for the proper combustion of oil, and its use
would very rapidly be extended, but for the sufficient reason that the
present relative prices of oil and coal are such as to make the use of
oil for burning in furnaces, except in specially favorable instances,
out of the question commercially. On the general economic question
of the oil supply depends also the rate of future progress of the large
internal combustion engine, the latest development in marine engi-
neering.

The application of the internal-combustion engine to marine pro-
pulsion is no new development, small engines having been constructed
for this purpose more than 20 years ago. During the last decade,

however, rapid progress has been made with small engines using the .

lighter petroleum spirits and oils, and the extent to which the steam
engine has been superseded in small craft, such as launches and pin-
naces, is apparent. For this class of work the small weight and bulk
of the internal-combustion engine and its general convenience are
such as to make the steam engine almost obsolete. The problem of
producing a reliable engine of the internal-combustion type of larger
power, without undue complication of design, and sufficiently low
in first cost and maintenance to be able to compete successfully with
the’ steam engine or geared turbine, is a much more difficult one.
Much experimental work has been done with this end in view, and
there are many attractive possibilities.

‘ici
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 703

Comparison of fuel consumption and weight of machinery, 1893-1913.

[For the same effective horsepower. ]

pelalive Relative
F spars uel con- ma-
Year. Class of engine and boilers. sump- | chinery
tion. weight.
1. Atlantic passenger ships.
1893 | Twin-screw triple-expansion engine; cylindrical boilers..................---- 100.0 100.0
1913 | Four-screw triple-series turbines; cylindrical boilers..............--...------ 90.0 81.0
1913 | Four-screw triple-series turbines; water-tube boilers......................--- 94.0 60.0
2. Intermediate liners. |
1893 | Triple-expansion reciprocating engine; cylindrical boilers...................- 100.0 100.0
1913 | Quadruple-expansion reciprocating engine; cylindrical boilers... .. eidia sias eae 92.5 91.0
1913 | Combination, reciprocating and turbine; cylindrical boilers....... id Ne Re | 80.0 94.0
3. Channel steamers.
1893 | Twin-screw triple-expansion engine; cylindrical boilers...................... 100.0 100.0
1913 | Three-screw direct turbines; cylindrical boilers.......................-.----- 87.0 74 2
1913 | Twin-screw geared turbines; cylindrical boilers....................--.-.-..-- 74.4 82.0
1913 | Twin-screw geared turbines; water-tube boilers...................--.----.--- 76.0 60.0
4. Cargo tramp steamers.
1893 | Single-screw triple-expansion engine; cylindrical boilers...-............-.... 100.0 100.0
1913 | Single-screw triple-expansion engine; cylindrical boilers with syperh eater. 85. 4 100.0
1913 | Single-screw geared turbines; cylindrical boilers...................-..---- ea 76.0 84.4

Comfort on shipboard has vastly improved during the past 20
years. Spring mattresses and brass bedsteads have replaced the old
wooden bunks, improved systems of heating and ventilation have
been introduced, sanitary arrangements are greatly superior both in
quantity and in quality, while the furnishings of the public
apartments and the attractions of the dining saloon vie with those of
the finest hotels on shore. Third-class passengers have now separate
cabins for four, six, or eight persons each, in place of large open
‘tween-deck spaces filled with tiers of iron beds and accommodating
hundreds. In place of benches and tables along the sides of the
sleeping quarters, separate dining saloons, smoke rooms, and music
rooms are provided.

' Antirolling devices have been greatly developed. The use of free-
water chambers, first suggested by Sir Philip Watts in 1875, and
adopted in H. M. 8S. Jnflexible and the City of Paris, has been rein-
troduced on an exact scientific basis by Mr. Frahm, while Mr. Schlick
in Germany, and Mr. Sperry in America, have successfully applied
the gyroscope to the reduction of rolling motions.

Wireless telegraphy, introduced in 1896, is now fitted in over 1,800
ships and 270 shore stations. By its agency each steamer can keep
in direct touch with her sisters or with the shore. Already this
power of communication over long distance has proved of inestimable
value to vessels in distress by enabling them to summon immediate
assistance. Wireless telegraphy is probably the greatest boon ever
given to those in peril at sea.
704 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

As a preventive means, submarine soundsignaling has proved
itself to be of immense value, especially where the mariner is sur-
rounded by his most dangerous enemy, fog. It is well known that
during fog both light signals and ordinary sound signals become
very unreliable, whereas the state of the atmosphere has no effect
upon sounds transmitted through the sea. The first submarine bell
was installed in 1901, and to-day there are about 140 fixed bell sta-
tions and over 1,000 vessels fitted with listening apparatus.

The important questions of freeboard, subdivision, and lifeboat
accommodation have all received a considerable amount of attention
in recent years, and special committees have lately been appointed to
investigate each of these intricate problems, so that nothing that
human skill can devise may be left undone to secure the safety of
human life and property intrusted to the vessels of our mercantile
marine.

The 1892 bulkhead committee set as its highest standard the ability
to remain afloat with any two adjacent compartments simultaneously
flooded. The Campania was one of the first vessels to comply with
the conditions laid down, and the Scot was also a “ two-compart-
ment” ship. Since that date not many ships have fully met the
requirements, which were found in most cases to interfere too much
with passenger and cargo facilities. The new Empresses on service
in the Far East and the new Allan Liners have been made into “ four-
compartment” vessels, and it is more than probable that the new
bulkhead committee will set a higher standard of safety than its
predecessor.

One of the most appalling dangers at sea is that of fire, and in
recent years many new systems of meeting this emergency have been
introduced. The now universal replacement of candles and oil-
illumination by electric light has eliminated one of the most frequent
causes of conflagration, and should fire occur, systems of piping
led into every part of the ship can quickly convey water, steam,
carbonic-acid gas, sulphurous vapor, or the exhaust gases from the
funnels so as to deprive the flames of the oxygen which is their life.

In the course of my remarks I have made no reference to failures,
as these have been but rare among so many notable successes. Never-
theless much has been learned from failures, as each one, if read
aright, indicates something to be avoided in future work. The solid
progress recorded, with but little assistance from that manual labor
which to-day claims to be the sole producer of wealth, has been the
inevitable result of the persistent intellectual effort, amounting at
times to genius, of the many men whose names are as household
words among us and will live imperishably in the annals of our pro-
fession. It is impossible to review the history of marine construction
without being forcibly impressed by the greatness of the debt we owe
GRACIE. 705

PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION

to such men as James Watt, Scott Russell, Brunel, John Elder, Sir
William Pearce, Sir William White, Dr. Elgar, the Froudes, the late
Dr. Denny, and many others who have passed away, as well as to
the Hon. Sir Charles A. Parsons and others who are still fellow
workers with us. Active and daring minds have ever been questing
forward, and no opportunity for advance, no probability of new
development, has been allowed to pass without thorough sifting and
examination. The needs of the coming years have been anticipated,
the engineer has ever been in the van and not in the rear of material
progress. We have seen how the ocean liner has steadily advanced
in dimensions and speed. The only apparent obstacles to continued
increase are those connected with finance and with the sizes of docks
and harbors. In view of past experience, he would be bold indeed
who would place any limit upon what the future will bring forth.
[The president, in moving a vote of thanks to the lecturer, re-
marked that his subject was a national question of vital importance.
The growth of British oversea trade during the past 10 years had
been phenomenal, having now reached, according to figures given by
the First Lord of the Admiralty a few days ago, the enormous sum
of 355,000,000 sterling per annum. Such figures indicated the great
importance of the subject with which the lecturer had dealt so
exhaustively, and he had the greatest pleasure in proposing a hearty
vote of thanks to Mr. Gracie for his excellent and instructive lecture.
Sir John Wolfe Barry, K. C. B., past president, said he felt greatly
honored at being allowed, as the seconder of the resolution, to ask
the members to accord the vote of thanks which had been moved
by the president. The record of the last 20 years which had been
passed in review by the lecturer was one of gradual, sure, and ex-
traordinary progress in shipbuilding. The “James Forrest” lecture
for 1913 would be a record for all time of what had taken place
during that period, and would remain as a landmark, as it were, of
the progress and goal which had been reached by naval architects.
For such records as that the members were indebted to their old
friend, Mr. James Forrest, so long the secretary of the institution,
who, with a happy inspiration, applied money given to him as a
testimonial to the founding of lectures of high class; and whatever
the particular branch of engineering with which a lecturer was in-
vited to deal might be, the “James Forrest” lecture would, he
thought, always hold a very high position as a record of what had
been done in the various branches of engineering of which the insti-
tution was the representative body. The members of the institution
were not merely railway builders, or dock makers, or shipbuilders,
or electricians, for their spheres of work were manifold, and they
were all joined together in one confraternity. For the happy inspira-
44863°—sm 1918——45
706 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tion to which he had referred the members were indebted to their
friend James Forrest, and he was sure the heart of many who recol-
lected his sway would go out to him on the present occasion, when
they heard the first “ James Forrest” lecture that had been given in
the theater of the new building. He was old enough to recollect
some of the fathers of naval architecture, and he could not help
casting his mind back far beyond the 20 years, which had been the
purview of the lecture on the present occasion, to the much more
distant years—the fifties and sixties—when the great pioneers of
naval architecture were among them. He alluded in particular to
their vice president, I. K. Brunel, who showed the way to the timid
naval architects of the period. Although he was a widely educated
engineer in every branch of his profession, he had a particular love
for naval architecture, and showed how it was possible to design
steamships which could make long voyages across the Atlantic when
such an idea was scoffed at as chimerical. He did not think, on such
an occasion, the members ought to forget the name of I. K. Brunel,
the designer, in the first instance, of the Great Western, then of the
Great Britain, and lastly of that extraordinary ship for her period,
the Great Eastern, which had a tonnage of something like 17,000
or 18,000 tons, and was immensely in advance of any kind of naval
architecture which had then been even dreamt of. He was also
pleased to be able to recall the memory of his dear old friend, Mr.
William Froude, who, he thought, rendered to naval architecture
greater services than any other Englishman who ever lived, intro-
ducing science and exactitude into a profession which had been up
to that time more or less empirical. He could not help recollecting
those things, because, happy as the recollections of the last 20 years
were, members should certainly not forget those great pioneers who
showed the way 60 years ago; and he was sure they would all remem-
ber the luster of Brunel’s achievements and look back with pleasure
upon the remarkable success he achieved with the Great Fastern. It
was important to bear in mind that that fine vessel, the Great
Eastern, embodied almost all the principles which had been laid
down by the lecture that evening as to strength of hull, watertight-
ness, protection against accident, and the girder principle. That
was a great achievement which should never be forgotten whenever
naval architecture was under consideration at the present time.
Before sitting down he desired to be allowed to congratulate the
members on being assembled for the first time in the present theater,
and occupying their fine building during the first period of its exist-
ence. In congratulating everybody who was present as member, as-
sociate member, associate, or student, he could not help also thinking
of the exertions which had been made by many people to bring about
that very happy result. The members ought to be very grateful to
PROGRESS IN MARINE CONSTRUCTION—GRACIE. 707

the building committee for the care and attention they had given to
the plan of the building; they ought to thank the architect for all
he had done; but he did not think they ought to forget the remarka-
ble exertions which had been made by the secretary, Dr. Tudsbery,
and his staff, during the four or five very strenuous years in which
they were leaving the old building, housing themselves temporarily,
and eventually transferring themselves to the present noble edifice.
It pleased him immensely to be allowed that evening to say how
grateful he was to Dr. Tudsbery and his staff, and to all who had
been associated with the transfer of the institution from one great
building to another.

He was sure the members would agree that Mr. Gracie had suc-
ceeded in laying before the institution a very interesting record of
what had been done during the last 20 years. The lecturer was
known as a past master in all that belonged to naval architecture, and
the members wished to thank him very sincerely and cordially for
coming among them that evening and delivering the first “ James
Forrest” lecture in the new building.

The resolution having been carried by acclamation,

Mr. Alexander Gracie, in acknowledging the vote of thanks, said
that the patience with which the members had listened to him, to-
gether with the compliment that the institution had paid him by
asking him to deliver the lecture, was more than ample reward for
anything he had done. |
CREATING A SUBTERRANEAN RIVER AND SUPPLYING
A METROPOLIS WITH MOUNTAIN WATER.

By J. BERNARD WALKER and A. RuSSELL BonD.

[With i1 plates. ]
I. CREATING A SUBTERRANEAN RIVER 90 MILES IN LENGTH.
By J. BERNARD WALKER.

PHENOMENAL GROWTH OF NEW YORK.

Greater New York is adding to its population at the rate of 140,000
people per year—an increase which is absolutely without precedent
or parallel in the growth of the world’s great cities. Such an in-
crease as this renders enormously difficult the problems of housing,
food supply, transportation, and proper hygiene. For many years
past, and long before the rate of increase had reached its present
proportions, the city authorities have been at their wits’ end in en-
deavoring to enlarge the various facilities of the city so as to keep
pace with the demands of its ever-growing population.

THE PERIL OF WATER FAMINE.

With the exception of rapid transit, there is no problem of the
city’s need which has proved more serious, more pressing or more
difficult, at least in recent years, than that of providing an adequate
supply of pure drinking water. At frequent intervals the city has
been threatened by that justly dreaded terror, a water famine—
justly dreaded, because a shortage, to say nothing of a total failure,
of water might mean an outbreak of pestilence, to say nothing of
the loss and inconvenience occasioned by the shutting down of the
various factories and smaller industries which a shortage of the
water supply would necessitate.

It is not so very many months since the whole city was watching,
with a very anxious eye, the steady fall of the water levels in the
various reservoirs of the Croton watersheds; for a season of drought,
extending far into the winter, had served to bring the hitherto re-
mote peril close to its very doors.

In view of the rapid growth of the city, it was evident at the out-
set that any adequate scheme for increasing the water supply must
Beart by permission from Scientific American, New York, vol. 108, No. 9, Mar. 1,

709
710 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

be made upon the broadest possible scale; and that it should make
provision, not only for the immediate needs of the city, but for
those of many a decade to come. This has been done by the board
of water supply; and it is the purpose of this and the following
article to show that the project of bringing the Catskill Mountain
water to New York has been considered on such adequately com-
prehensive lines that the possibility of any shortage of water in this
great city has been removed into the very far future.

On May 14, 1906, the State water supply commission approved
of the application of the board of water supply of this city for ob-
taining a daily supply of 500,000,000 gallons of water from the
Esopus, Rondout, Schoharie, and Catskill Creeks in the Catskill
Mountains, at an estimated cost of $161,867,000. In 1910 a plan
for the distribution of the water throughout Manhattan, Queens,
and the Bronx by a deep-pressure tunnel was approved by the board
of estimate and apportionment. The additional cost of this scheme
is $15,000,000. |

THE NEW SCHEME OF WATER SUPPLY.

The new supply of water, of the finest mountain quality, is to be
taken from four watersheds, having a total area of nearly 900 square
miles. The total estimated capacity of these four gathering grounds
is, even in a series of unusually dry years, equal to supplying 770,-
000,000 gallons daily. Reservoirs will be built, as they are required,
in each of these basins, and they will be connected by aqueducts. For
the present, the Esopus watershed only is being developed. In a
series of dry years this watershed can furnish a daily supply of only
250,000,000 gallons; but the aqueduct leading to the city is being
built of double that capacity or 500,000,000 gallons daily. The first
contract for construction was let at the close of 1906. In 1907 to 1908
about 5 per cent of the work was completed from Ashokan reservoir
in the Esopus watershed to Croton Lake. By the end of 1909, 22
per cent was done, 60 per cent at the close of 1910, 78 per cent by
1911, and at the present time about 95 per cent of the work is done.
The delivery of water into the Croton Reservoir, which will be pos-
sible this year, will prevent any possibility of water famine during
the completion of the new aqueduct to New York.

The system under construction and now nearing completion con-
sists of a large reservoir in the Esopus Basin, an underground aque- -
duct 17 feet in diameter by which the water is led for 64 miles to an-
other large basin, the Kensico Reservoir, which will serve for emerg-
ency storage; a third reservoir situated about 15 miles south of Ken-
sico and just over the New York city line, known as the Hill View
Reservoir, which will equalize the difference between the use of water
in the city, which, of course, varies from hour to hour and from day
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—-WALKER AND BOND. alk

to day, and the steady flow coming in from the aqueduct. Between
Hill View and the city the system consists of a deep circular, high-
pressure tunnel, through which the water will be led beneath Man-
hattan, to be distributed by surface mains throughout that city, and
also throughout the other districts of Greater New York.

THE ASHOKAN RESERVOIR.

The great Ashokan Reservoir is situated about 14 miles west of
Kingston, on the Hudson River. Its cost is $18,000,000, and it will

e Bi

GRADE TUNNEL PRESSURE TUNNEL

hold sufficient water to cover the whole of Manhattan Island to a
depth of 28 feet. The water is impounded by the Olive Bridge Dam,
which is built across Esopus Creek, and also by the Beaver Kill and
the Hurley dikes, which have been built across streams and gaps
lying between the hills which surround the reservoir. By the 1st of
January, this year, 73 per cent of this work was done. The dam is
a masonry structure 190 feet in thickness at the base, and 23 feet
thick at the top. The surface of the water when the reservoir is
full is 590 feet above tide level. The total length of the main dam

712 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

is 4,650 feet, and the maximum depth of the water is 190 feet. The
area of the water surface is 12.8 square miles, and in preparing the
bottom it was necessary to remove seven villages, with a total popu-
lation of 2,000. Forty miles of highway and 10 bridges had to be
built. In the construction of the dam and dikes it was necessary to
excavate nearly 3,000,000 cubic yards of material, and 8,000,000
cubic yards of embankment and nearly 1,000,000 cubic yards of ma-
sonry had to be put in place. The maximum number of men em-
ployed on the job was 3,000.

THE 92-MILE AQUEDUCT.

The water is conducted from Ashokan Reservoir as a huge under-
ground artificial river. The aqueduct is 92 miles in length from
Ashokan to the northern city line, and it should be explained that
it is built on a gentle grade, and that the water flows through this
at a slow and fairly constant speed. The aqueduct contains four dis-
tinct types: The cut-and-cover, the grade tunnel, the pressure tunnel,
and the steel-pipe syphon. The cut-and-cover type, which is used on
55 miles of the aqueduct, is of a horseshoe shape and measures 17 feet
high by 17 feet 6 inches wide, inside measurements. It is built of
concrete, and on completion it is covered in with an earth embank-
ment. This type is used wherever the nature of the ground and the
elevation allow. Where the aqueduct intersects hills or mountains
it is driven through them in tunnel at the standard grade. There are
24. of these tunnels, aggregating 14 miles in length. They are horse-
shoe in shape, 17 feet high by 13 feet 4 inches wide, and they are
lined with concrete. When the line of the aqueduct encountered
deep and broad valleys, they were crossed by two methods: If suit-
able rock were present, circular tunnels were driven deep within this
rock and lined with concrete. There are 7 of these pressure tunnels
of a total length of 17 miles. Their internal diameter is 14 feet, and
at each end of each tunnel a vertical shaft connects the tunnel with
the grade tunnel above. If the bottom of the valley did not offer
suitable rock for a rock tunnel, or if there were other prohibitive
reasons, steel siphons were used. These are 9 feet and 11 feet in
diameter. They are lined with 2 inches of cement mortar and are
imbedded in concrete and covered with anearth embankment. There
are 14 of these pipe siphons in a total length of 6 miles. At present
one pipe suffices to carry the water. Ultimately three will be re-
quired for each siphon.

Of the many siphons constructed, by far the most interesting and
difficult is that which has been completed beneath the Hudson River.
The preliminary borings made from scows in the river showed that
great depths would have to be reached before rock sufficiently solid
and free from seams was encountered to withstand the enormous
hydraulic pressure of the water in the tunnel. After failing to

ee ee
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 1.

OLIVE BRIDGE DAM. ESopuS CREEK FLOWING THROUGH TEMPORARY TUNNEL.

BUILDING OLIVE BRIDGE DAM TO FORM THE ASHOKAN RESERVOIR.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond.

PLATE 2.

IN THE HUDSON RIVER SIPHON, 1,100 FEET BELOW THE RIVER.
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—WALKER AND BOND. fas

reach rock by the scow drills, two series of inclined borings were
made from each shore, one pair intercepting at about 900 feet depth
and the other at about 1,500 feet. Both showed satisfactory rock;
and accordingly a shaft was sunk on each shore to a depth of ap-
proximately 1,100 feet, and then a horizontal tunnel was driven con-
necting the two. It is of interest to note that because of the enor-
mous head, which must be measured from the flow line far above
the river surface, the pressure in the horizontal tunnel reaches over
40 tons per square foot.

E/ZO0f above flow line
Ei of flow'line

— —=- ow or
Sams 0 AYES
~~ ee

= ee

WSU UMTS, —

i Tp ge coe Sa ey

oy ‘4 ead grubbed ;
a Nb TCMOUE )

Ties Cut-off, if required— ‘.- “Concrete masonry core wall

TYPICAL SECTION OF DIKE

‘eWidth 1c S--4 On steep hilside _---7"

olf U/ Zs
(ng == Seo Earth= ( id
a OP = refill
“2 Sa

OLIVE BRIDGE DAM dotted.
MAXIMUM MASONRY SECTION STEEL PIPE SIPHON

KENSICO RESERVOIR.

Next to Ashokan the most important basin is the Kensico reservoir,
which lies east of the Hudson, and is situated 30 miles north of the
city hall. It will hold sufficient of the Catskill water to supply the
city for several months. Its purpose is to act as an emergency
storage reservoir, so that if it is necessary, on account of accident,
to interrupt the flow in the 77 miles of aqueduct between Kensico
and Ashokan, this can be done without interrupting the city supply.
The cost of this work is $8,500,000.

The reservoir will be formed by a huge masonry dam across the
valley of the Bronx River. The surface of the water will be at an
RT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ANNUAL REPO

714

*LOOdUNOV AHL GNV SGHHSHUALVM NOLOUD ANV TIMISLV)D ONLMOHS dV.

LONAGENOV GNV SGAHSHALVM TIDISLVO

Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 3.

PLACING THE 93 Foot STEEL PIPES—FOUNDRY BROOK SIPHON.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 4.

DRIVEWAY ALONG CREST OF OLIVE BRIDGE DAM.

This will form part of a system of new highways.

ASHOKAN RESERVOIR—UPPER GATE CHAMBER.

Through this chamber the flow of water to the aqueduct will be regulated.
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—-WALKER AND BOND. 715

elevation of 855 feet above mean sea level, and will cover 2,218 acres.
It will contain, when full, about 40,000,000,000 gallons, of which
29,000,000,000 gallons, or 60 days’ continuous supply at 500,000,000
gallons daily, will be available. The main dam will be 1,848 feet
long; the total height will be 300 feet; it will be 230 feet thick at
the base, and 28 feet thick at the top. The average depth of the
reservoir will be 100 feet, and its maximum depth at the wall of
the dam will be 155 feet. An interesting feature of the construc-
lion is that the entire dam will be divided into sections by transverse
expansion joints, which will be placed about 80 feet apart longitudi-
nally. On one side they will be faced with concrete blocks, forming
a series of vertical tongues and grooves, against which the masonry
of the other side will be built. Near the up-stream face will be a
. copper strip, which will cover the expansion joints and act as a water
stop, the strips continuing from the bottom to the top of the dam.
In order to catch any water that may seep through from the up-
stream side, diagonal wells will be built 15 feet apart, measured
longitudinally. They will be formed of porous concrete blocks.
They will reach from the top of the dam to a longitudinal inspec-
tion gallery at about the level of the reservoir bottom, which will in
its turn be connected with a transverse drainage gallery, which will
lead to the downstream base of the dam. This will entirely prevent
any seepage through the wall, and will avoid that discoloration
which is liable to mar the architectural beauty of structures of this
kind.
AERATION AND FILTRATION.

At both the Ashokan and Kensico reservoirs aerators will be
- built, each of which will be capable of passing and treating all the
water which will flow in the aqueduct. The aerator is a large
rectangular basin, 500 feet by 250 feet, containing about 1,800 noz-
zles, through which jets of water will be thrown into the air. The
nozzles will be of such form that the water will be divided into a
fine spray, and this will permit of a thorough admixture with the
oxygen of the air and the removal of gases and matters which would
cause taste and odors. For the present no provision will be made for
filtrating the Catskill water, but provision has been made for a
filtration plant by the purchase of 350 acres of land near Tarrytown,
adjacent to the aqueduct.

HILL VIEW RESERVOIR.

From Kensico the water will flow to the Hill View reservoir, which
will serve to equalize the difference between the amount of water
used in the city and the amount of water flowing in the aqueduct.
Also it will furnish a great quantity of water should there be an
716 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

immediate demand, such as occurs during a great conflagration.
Its capacity will be 900,000,000 gallons. The reservoir is divided
into two basins, so that one may be used while the other is being
inspected for repairs. The aqueduct is carried within the wall which
divides the two basins, and the aqueduct water can be passed through
the reservoir and delivered directly into the city tunnel.

Our thanks are due to Mr. Alfred D. Flinn, department engineer
of the board of water supply, for courtesies extended during the
preparation of this article.

II. SUPPLYING A METROPOLIS WITH MOUNTAIN WATER.
By A. RUSSELL Bonn.

HOW MINING OPERATIONS ARE BEING CARRIED ON THROUGH THE HEART
OF NEW YORK.

The preceding pages tell how the new aqueduct is being constructed
from the Catskill Mountains down to the New York City line, where,
at the Hill View Reservoir, the waters will pause before taking their
plunge into the heart of the city.

The problem of admitting so large a flood into the metropolis is
no small one, particularly when the chief demand for the water will
come from those sections of Greater New York which lie many miles
away. For the present, at least, little if any of the Catskill water
will be used in Manhattan and The Bronx, but most of it will be
consumed by the boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens, and Richmond, The
water-waste campaign which has been carried on for the past few
years has so far reduced the consumption of water that the Croton
system, which can furnish steadily 350,000,000 gallons of water per
day, can easily take care of the immediate wants of Manhattan und
The Bronx as well as the demand from these two boroughs for many
years to come. It is not likely that the population in Manhattan will
increase much, unless it undergoes a marked vertical growth, for now
there are practically no more vacant lots to be built upon. So that
in estimating the future demands upon the Croton system, we must
consider chiefly the growth of population in The Bronx. In the
other three boroughs of the city, however, there is a present demand
for water, and the probability of large increases in population in
coming years.

To conduct the Catskill water into Brooklyn and Queens, it was
decided to build a trunk line so far beneath the surface that there
would always be 150 feet of good, solid rock for the roof of the
tunnel, and provide a course for a subterranean river which could be
tapped as needed for the city’s supply, and which at the same time
would be so completely buried that it would never menace the safety

eee
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 5.

CONSTRUCTING A STEEL AND CONCRETE SECTION OF AQUEDUCT.

This section consists of a steel pipe, lined internally with 2 inches of cement mortar, and em-
bedded in reinforced concrete.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE

DYNAMITE CHAMBER.

Note the roof over the shelves.

MAGAZINE Door, WHICH CLOSES AUTOMATICALLY IN CASE OF EXPLOSION.
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—-WALKER AND BOND. HAG

of structures above it. When the tunnel is completed, it will be one
of the most durable pieces of work ever constructed by man; for
practically nothing but an earthquake can destroy it, and even this
possibility is very remote, for the rock underlying New York is of
very early formation, and not at all lable to seismic disturbance.
And so the city tunnel of the Catskill aqueduct is being bored
through the rock on an average of 200 to 250 feet below the surface,
except in places where the nature of the rock is of such a character
as to call for a much greater depth.

The first dip takes place just above the Harlem River, where the
tunnel drops down to 362 feet below the ground level. Then it runs
practically horizontally until it passes the dip in the rock under One
hundred and twenty-fifth street. Thence it rises again, and main-
tains a practically constant level of 200 feet under the city until it
arrives at the ancient bed of the East River. A glance at the map
of New York City will show that the East River makes a decided
turn about the lower east side or “heel” of Manhattan. In pre-
glacial times the East River had no elbow in its course, but ran
directly across the heel of Manhattan, and it wore away the rock in
its bed to considerable depths. However, the large deposits of earth
and rock carried by the glaciers caused the river to be pushed east-
ward, out of its normal channel and over the solid rock beyond.
When borings were made for the aqueduct through this section of
the city, it was found necessary to lay it at a depth of about 750 feet
below the surface. As indicated in the drawing on page 721, much
of the rock through this section is decayed and unfit to form the
walls of a high-pressure aqueduct which is being built to last for all
time. The present channel of the East River, on the other hand,
passes over solid rock, and is comparatively shallow. Seven hundred
and fifty feet is an enormous depth, second only to the great siphon
under the Hudson River, which is 1,114 feet below the river surface.
It so happens that the deepest shaft ever sunk in New York City
equals the height of the tallest building in the world. To illustrate
this enormous depth, our artist has taken the liberty of building the
Woolworth Building topsy-turvy—that is, from the ground down—
at the Clinton Street shaft at the west bank of the Kast River. Enor-
mous as is the building, yet it barely reaches the aqueduct at this
point, Evidently there will be plenty of cellar room over the tunnel;
and yet it is worth noting, the aqueduct follows the street lines so
as not to trespass on private property.

Arrived in Brooklyn, the aqueduct rises again to within two or
three hundred feet of the surface and is pushed as far as it is possible
to carry it in solid rock and yet communicate with the surface. This
limit was found to be at the junction of Flatbush and Third Avenues.
718 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Here it was necessary to go through 215 feet of overlying earth
before coming to the rock. The caisson method had to be resorted
to, and the caisson was sunk over 100 feet below the water line before
rock was reached. Considerable difficulty was here experienced in
sinking the shaft to the rock, because it called for the use of pneu-
matic pressure that taxed the endurance of the workmen to the limit.
From here on the water will be conducted through pipes laid in a
trench of a moderate depth below the surface. From the foot of
Seventy-ninth Street, Bay Ridge, the conduit will be run across the
Narrows to Staten Island, through a pipe 36 inches in diameter, pro-
vided with flexible joints, and laid in a submarine trench. The
details of this section of the work have not yet been given out. How-
ever, tests have been made to discover at what depth the pipe line
under the water must be buried. It is evident that it must lie far
enough below ground to prevent its being entangled with anchors
from large vessels that may have to anchor in the Narrows. The
matter has been thoroughly investigated, and practical tests have
been made by dragging anchors of large size along the bottom. It
has been determined that if the pipe line is buried at least 8 feet
under the bed, it will be entirely safe. On the Staten Island side a
48-inch pipe will carry the water on up the hill and through a tunnél
into Silver Lake Reservoir, 120 miles from the source in the Catskills.

The greatest interest in this city section of the aqueduct attaches
naturally to that part which is being excavated through solid rock
under the busy city. It is a surprising fact that a work of such
magnitude can be carried on directly under our feet without incon-
veniencing us in the least. The only surface evidence of the deep
rock tunneling is to be found at the various shafts which are located
in parks or public squares. The principal difficulty that presented
itself at first was the question of storing explosives for a work of
such great proportions. To keep the necessary explosives on the sur-
face was to harbor constant menaces to the lives of the citizens. The
matter was finally solved by placing the dynamite magazines far
under the surface in the rock, and setting the doors to these maga- .
zines so they will automatically close in case of an explosion and trap
the hot and poisonous fumes in the rock chamber, where they can do
no harm to the workmen. The idea was borrowed from European
practice, where mining operations are conducted close to and some-
times directly under large cities. Access to the dynamite chamber
is had through a zigzag drift. At each turn of the drift a pocket is
excavated, and the chamber itself is made of large capacity. In this
chamber the dynamite is stored under a protecting roof to keep off
any fragments of rocks that might fall when jarred by the “shoot-
ing” in the tunnel. At the entrance of the drift a very substantial
concrete bulkhead is built, and in this is a low doorway. The door is
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 7.

“HOLED THROUGH” FROM SHAFT 16 TO SHAFT 17. DANGEROUS ROCK OVERHEAD DUE
TO VERTICAL SEAMS.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond.

LOOKING DOWN THE 441-FooT SHAFT AT REINFORCEMENT FOR THE CAISSON AT FLAT-
ONE HUNDREDAND FoRTY-NINTH STREET. BUSH AND THIRD AVENUES.

PERMANENT CHANNEL IRON SUPPORT FOR A TREACHEROUS ROOF. THE BEAMS WILL
BE IMBEDDED IN THE CONCRETE LINING.
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—WALKER AND BOND. 719

of massive construction, built of I-beams, 16 inches deep and spaced
apart with oak beams 12 inches square. The door has beveled edges,
so that it will seat itself snugly in the doorway. The door is always
kept open at an angle of about 45°. In the magazine a thousand
pounds of dynamite may be kept at a time. Should this be exploded,
the explosion wave would have to travel down the zigzag passage and
would lose much of its force at each abrupt turn, finally striking the
door with greatly diminished energy. The door would be slammed
shut by the blast of air issuing from the drift and would then be held
shut by the gases of the exploded dynamite. A magazine of this
sort has been constructed near the foot of each shaft—not aé the foot,
however, for fear that in case of a mishap, it might block the escape
of the men. The magazines have been tested by exploding a number
of sticks of dynamite around the first bend in the drift, and in every
case the door has closed just as expected.

The work through the rock is being pushed very rapidly; at some
of the shafts between 800 and 1,000 pounds of dynamite have been
used daily. Within the last year millions of pounds of dynamite
have been exploded under the city, while most of New York was
totally oblivious to the fact. Already a number of the tunnel sec-
tions have been “holed” through. To expedite the work, one con-
tractor is using an interesting form of shoveling machine, built
especially for this work, so that it may be taken down the compara-
tively narrow shaft and be assembled to work within the small
diameter of 11 feet, which is the size of the tunnel at the particular
point where this machine is now being used. A photograph of this
machine is shown herewith, and also a drawing illustrating the mech-
anism (pl. 10). The machine is controlled by a single operator and
does the work of six laborers. It is provided with a double shovel A and
B. The section A digs up the rock and throws it upon the scoop B,
which in turn empties its load upon a traveling chain conveyor C;
the latter delivers the load into muck cars at the back of the shovel-
ing machine. The letters B, Bt, B?, and B? show the successive po-
sitions of the scoop. The forward section A is carried upon a crank
shaft D, which is revolved through the are indicated by the arrow.
Another arrow line shows the course of the front edge of the section
A. The forward end of the scoop B rests upon the heel of the sec-
tion A, while its rear end is mounted upon a shaft Z’, which travels
ina guideway #. The forward section A is connected to the shaft Z
by means of side plates, indicated by dotted lines, so that as the
crank shaft D revolves, the slide shaft /#' is obliged to run up the
ways /’, as indicated by the letters £1, £2, and H*%. The section B
is equipped with a small arm G, which carries a roller that is adapted
to engage the cam groove H, causing the scoop B to turn over as
indicated in the dotted view B*, and empty its load upon the travel-
720 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

ing conveyor. The machine is mounted on a turntable so that it may
be turned about in any direction.

Some of the work on the city pressure tunnel has been hurried so
far that certain sections are now being lined with concrete. The
forms used for this purpose are very interesting. Our illustra-
tion, plate 11, shows their construction. They cover 120 feet alto-
gether and are arranged in two sections, 60 feet of the lower half
of the tunnel being concreted in advance of 60 feet of the upper
part. The first step is to lay the “invert;” that is, a narrow seg-
ment of the lining running along the bottom of the tunnel. This,
when completed, forms the track upon which the forms for the rest
of the lining travel. The forms are mounted on trucks with wheels
tapered to fit the curve of the invert. The forms for the lower half
cylinder are practically the same as those for the upper half cylin-
der. After the lining has set, the sides of the upper form may be
drawn in to free them from the concrete by operating the turn-
buckles A, and those of the lower forms by operating the turn-
buckles B. Then jacks may be unscrewed to lower the upper section
slightly, freeing it completely from the concrete, and jacks # may
be screwed up to raise the bottom section slightly upon the truck.
In this collapsed condition the forms may be drawn forward to
complete the next section of tunnel. The detail view in the drawing
(pl. 10, fig. 2) shows how the lower forms are supported on the
trucks. To the longitudinal beams C, vertical guides D are bolted,
which fit against the framework of the truck. The jacks # mounted
on the truck bear against cross pieces running from C’ to C. The
filling of the lower half of the forms is comparatively simple. It is
quite a different task, however, to lay the concrete into the upper
form. Sections of the plating of the upper forms are removed and
the concrete is shoveled in, adding the plates step by step as neces-
sary, until finally the topmost plate is added, when the concrete can
be introduced only from the end of the form. It will be observed
that small pieces of board are temporarily nailed against the edge
of the forms and fitted up as neatly as possible against the rock
above, so as to retain the concrete until it sets. As each section is
completed, grouting holes are left in the top through which, when
the lining is completed otherwise, grout will be forced under high
pressure to fill up all cracks and crevices and make the lining per-
fectly sound.

At each shaft access will be had to the tunnel through risers or
vertical pipes, 48 or 72 inches in diameter. At most of the shafts two
such pipes will be provided, each fitted with valves at the bottom,
which may be operated from the surface to close either of them when
it is desired to gain access to them or to effect any necessary repairs.
The valves at the bottom of the risers will be of such a design as to

<li aaa
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond.

HLYOM

70

OM

HEIGHT OF WOOLWORTH BUILDING EQUALS DEPTH OF

DEEPEST AQUEDUCT SHAFT IN NEW YORK.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond.

PLATE 10.

FIG. 1.—SHOVELING MACHINE FOR REMOVING THE BROKEN ROCK AND LOADING IT INTO CARS.

Fia. 2.—TRUCK FOR CARRYING STEEL FORMS FOR CONCRETE LINING.
Smithsonian Report, 1913.—Walker and Bond. PLATE 11.

STEEL FORMS USED IN LINING THE AQUEDUCT WITH CONCRETE.
SUBTERRANEAN RIVER—-WALKER AND BOND.

close automatically in case of an abnormal flow through the risers,

721

due to the destruction of the valve at the top by explosion or other

accident. At the top of the risers there
will be two valves, the one nearer the
riser being an emergency valve, which
may be closed in case of any damage to
the other valve.

It is probable that no immediate
changes will be made in the water supply
of Manhattan and Bronx, except that
pipe lines will be run from the shafts to
help out the existing supply in case of
emergency. In Brooklyn and Queens,
where 35 pumping stations are now re-
quired, most of the stations will be dis-
continued for the reason that the water
will be delivered through the aqueduct at
sufficient pressure to reach practically all
parts. Only in one or two sections will
pumping be necessary.

From Hill View Reservoir the water
will flow through a tunnel 15 feet in
diameter. This will be narrowed to 14,
13, 12, and 11 feet, which is the diameter
of the rock tunnel at Fort Greene Park,
Brooklyn, and at the intersection of Flat-
bush and Third Avenues. From there on
steel pipes, 54 feet in diameter and run-
ning down to 4 feet in diameter, will
carry the water to the Narrows, and
under New York Bay, at the Narrows,
the line will be only 3 feet in diameter.
This gradual shrinking of the aqueduct
reminds one of those large rivers that
flow out of the mountains in sufficient
volume to be navigable and even a menace
to the surrounding country in time of
flood, but which, when they reach the
deserts, are drunk up by the thirsty sands
and sucked by the torrid sun until they
vanish without any clearly defined ter-
minus or possibly flow in a sickly stream
to a small stagnant lagoon. Thus, when
the entire Catskill system is completed

44863°—sm 1913—46

LEV
-100

DLL.
-0

2

6/ LAVHS

BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN

a
sat

a
ny

\- CLINTON ST HESTER ST-+ALLEN

I@L4 VHS

[EAST 2iVER,
er e-- pHi SORA WA

is)
or)

&
=
5

— FRIDGE ST-

BOROUGH OF BROOKLYN

FLATBUSH AVE

-100

$2978 SSIZHO HYHOHOS|

STADELANCEY BOWERY —————--__. FoR AVE-AUNION 34

ee:

TTR WA HT
Co

eh

ft
:
ye

| le elidel See i

oof
7
88 F

MANHATTAN SCHIST

S- ste

.
.

, LIMESTO,
ibs

)

V al
in

‘
‘
bY

’

ey

DHA GHEISS S
TH IHTESBEODED,
HMESTONE |

MOSTLY

GRAN ODIORITE.

FORDHAM GNEISS

btthreo noce
4s ¥
GHFSOUND ROCK

7m
Datiad

Section along the city pressure.tunnel, showmg how it has to dip down onder the pre-glacial bed of the Hast River.
722 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

and operating at its full capacity, the waters which three days before
poured out of the Ashokan Reservoir in a mighty flood, over 17 feet
in diameter, will reach Staten Island a stream only 3 per cent of its
former size, after having been robbed by the rest of the thirsty city.
THE APPLICATION OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR
VISION IN MODERN ART.

By Henry G. KELLER,
Cleveland School of Art,
and
Prof J. J. R. MACLEOD,
Western Reserve Medical School.

Leonardo in his treatise on painting says:

Those who become enamored of the practice of the art without having previ-
ously applied themselves to the diligent study of the scientific part of it, may be
compared to mariners who put to sea in a ship without rudder or compass, and,
therefore, can not be certain of arriving at the wished-for port. Practice must
always be founded on good theory.

Instead of serving as an incentive to more extensive study of the
use of colors in art, these words seem to have marked the advent of
an epoch extending over several centuries, during which colors came
to be less and less successfully employed. The ideals of art came to
be dictated by the academic painter and they were much more
mythological and allegorical than founded on the beauty of color
patterns. Much of art became black painting, little attempt being
made to use pure colors and no consideration being given to the
effects which could be produced by the influence of juxtaposed colors
on one another. With the exception of some masters the ideal of
artists was merely to reproduce as closely as possible the color tones
and values as seen in nature—to produce a colored photograph with-
out adding to it that mysterious something for which is responsible
the peculiar charm and strength of the paintings of the early Italian
masters and of the Chinese and Japanese, and which includes some
subtile influence of the picture itself quite apart from what it repre-
sents; something that endows it with a charm that is all its own, and
which no colored photograph can ever contain.

It is true that from time to time in the history of modern art
masters have arisen who have, intuitively as it were, produced pic-
tures the color schemes of which have contained this “something.”
But it is the individual rather than the system that has been responsi-

“ble, and no attempts have been made until comparatively recently

1 Reprinted by permission from the Popular Science Monthly, November, 1913.
723
724 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

to evolve new principles for the use of colors which would serve as
a guide to all; nor, indeed, was such an evolution possible until some
progress had been made in the scientific interpretation of color.
This progress is itself only of comparatively recent date.

At the present day there is an unrest in the world of art, an unrest
which has resulted in the creation of innumerable schools, each en-
deavoring by some peculiar method of its own to inculcate new prin-
ciples and to establish new ideals. Within a short period of time
realism has given place to impressionism, Impressionism to post-
impressionism, and this again has become parent for so many other
“isms” that to follow them has become almost impossible. How-
ever unpictorial from our ordinary viewpoint the creations of some
present-day artists may appear to be, there is nevertheless in many of
them some newly discovered truth; they are the steps in an evolution,
and we may hope that some day the evolution will be consummated
and that from out of the apparent chaos which at present exists a
really compelling picture will be created.

It is most of all in landscape painting that the evolution of modern
art can be seen. The old landscapes of Claude Lorrain and Constable
are no doubt full of charm, but they entirely lack the atmosphere and
force of the so-called impressionist paintings of Monet, Sisley, Pis-
saro, etc. In the older landscapes an attempt was made to copy
everything that could be seen by prolonged study, and the canvas was
covered with detail to its very edges; in impressionism it is merely the
flash, the fleeting effect of the landscape which it is attempted to re-
produce. There may indeed be considerable detail in certain portions
of the picture, but the greater part is merely a color pattern. But
after all such an impressionistic picture can occupy our attention for
a moment only. We do indeed receive an impression more or less like
that which the artist received on viewing his object, but closer study
of the picture does not carry us further; there is something absent
from it with which nature abounds, something that compels us, as
when viewing a landscape, to keep shifting our gaze from point to
point, a restlessness, a constant source of interest and fascination.
Tn post-impressionism the attempt is being made to supply this want,
to compel us namely to regard more than the fleeting impression.
The closer we study such a picture, if it be successful, the more comes
out of it, colors by their influence on one another become changed in
hue and saturation, a curiosity develops and, subconsciously, we are
compelled to continue our study, with the result that we get ever other
and other effects. It is kinetic, not static, art; it is a pattern of
nature designed to create visuopsychic impressions expressing an idea
rather than an object, subjective rather than objective.

There is a physiological reason for this visual restlessness and
before we go into the science of colors it may be well to explain what
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION——-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 120

this reason is. The innermost layer of the eye, onto which images of
exterior objects are focused, is specialized to react to sensation of
light, thus setting up nerve impulses which are transmitted to the
brain where they are interpreted. This layer of the eye is called the
retina, and it is very much more sensitive at a small spot in the
center than it is over the much larger outer (peripheral) portions;
so that, of the image which is focused on it, it is only that part fall-
ing on the central portion which is distinctly seen. When we regard
a stretch of country, for example, it is only in one part of it that the
objects are seen in any detail—namely, that part which is focused on
the central portion of the retina—the remainder, since it falls on the
outer portion, causing only a vague, indefinite impression. We may
say, indeed, that the function of the greater part of the retina is
merely to give usa general impression of the environment of the object
which is being looked at, an impression, that is to say, which will
enable us to judge of its relationship to other things. It tells what
else there is to look at, and subconsciously we shift our gaze so that,
piece by piece, the whole landscape comes to be focused on the central
portion. We regard with the central portion what we know exists
to be regarded on account of the duller image thrown on the rest of
the retina.

Coming now to the question of color, any attempt to apply the
scientific principles of color vision in making a picture must surely
fail if it be not granted at the outset that it is only to a limited de-
gree that those principles can apply. Color appreciation is as much
a psychical as a physiological process, and, indeed, it is psychical
not only with regard to the objective impression itself, but also with
regard to the subjective, the associational mental process. Previous
knowledge and training, experience, tradition, the association of
color impressions with impressions previously received through
other senses and stored away as memories, all play a part in deter-
mining the effect which a color or a pattern of apposed colors has
upon us. But even granting all this, there are many of the physio-
logical laws of color vision which must be adhered to before we can
expect to produce these effects.

In attempting to show how these laws may be employed in art it
will be necessary for us to explain briefly some of the physical and
physiological observations upon which they depend. The first of
these is a physical one—it is the dissociation of white light into the
spectral colors by means of a prism, or better, by means of a diffrac-
tion grating. The spectral colors are red, orange, yellow, green,

1Jn the light decomposed by a prism some hues, such as those of red and yellow, occupy
much less space than others, such as blue, although they do not correspondingly differ in
wave length. When light is decomposed by a diffraction grating (a glass plate ruled with
very fine equidistant lines) the spaces occupied by the various hues are proportional to
their differences in wave lengths.
726 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

blue (indigo), and violet, the various shades of purple being entirely
absent. When we look at such a spectrum we are at once struck with
the fact that the colors differ from one another not only in their
hue, but in their brightness or luminosity, the yellow and the immedi-
ately adjacent portions being much brighter than the others. At
once, then, we recognize two physiological properties for each spec-
tral color—hue and brightness. There is, however, another prop-
erty of colors as seen in nature which is absent in the spectrum,
namely, saturation, This refers to the degree of white light with
which the color is mixed. It is more or less related to the artist’s
“ value,” which expresses the translation of the colors into gray.

The most characteristic of these properties of colors is their hue,
and for the present we shall confine our atttention to this. To under-
stand what the hue is due to we must remember that rays of light
exist in space as vibrations of the surrounding ether and that these
vibrations occur at right angles to the line of propagation of the
light rays. The rate of the vibration varies according to the hue.
In other words, the ight rays are made up of waves which are small
and close together when the vibration is rapid, as at the violet end
of the spectrum, and are large and wide apart when the vibration is
slow, as at the red end. When these waves strike the retina they
create impressions which differ from one another, according to the
wave lengths, These differences we interpret as differences in hue.
When the rays of the various spectral hues are reunited before strik-
ing the retina the sensation which is created is that of white. This
recombination or synthesis of the spectral hues may in general be
brought about in two ways: (1) By causing them to fuse together
by means of some suitable optical device (such as a second prism or
reflecting mirrors) before they enter the eye; (2) by causing them
to become superimposed upon one another on the retina in rapid
succession, in which case the impression created by each color lasts
for a sufficient length of time so that it becomes fused with those
which succeed it. This result depends on the phenomenon of posi-
tive after images, which can be demonstrated by momentarily re-
garding some brightly illuminated object and then closing the eyes,
when the image continues to be seen for some time. Rapidly suc-
ceeding images, therefore, become fused into one composite impres-
sion.

This retinal synthesis, as we may call it, is well illustrated in the
impression produced by observing the spokes of a rapidly revolving
wheel. For experimental purposes it is brought about by using
Maxwell’s machine, which consists of circular cards painted in
sectors with the various colors and which are caused to revolve
around their centers by means of a motor. A spinning top may also
be used for this purpose. By revolving a card painted with the
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION—-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 727

seven spectral colors a sensation approaching that of white is pro-
duced ;! by choosing various proportions of the spectral colors this
white becomes tinted with all possible intermediate hues.

From these facts we might imagine that the retina contains a
special kind of sensory component for each of the seven spectral
hues, that equal stimulation of all produces the sensation of white,
and that varying degrees of stimulation of certain of them, that of
the hues which are intermediate between those of the spectrum.

Such an hypothesis could not, however, be of much practical value
in explaining the color phenomena with which we have to deal in
daily life. It had to be simplified. This was done by Thomas
Young and Helmholtz, who discovered that three of the spectral
hues, such as red, green, and violet, or certain other triads, are sufli-
cient, when mixed on the retina, to produce the same sensations as
those which are produced by the seven spectral hues. These are
known as primary colors; when equal quantities of each are used a
sensation of white (or gray) results; when only red and green, the
sensation is yellow;
when green and vio-
let, it is blue; and
when violet and red,
itis purple. Not only
this, but the various
intermediate hues can
readily be obtained by

aheringthe) prepor- RC STs ta ptt acer sacte Vv
tions of the a. Fig. 1.—COLOR TRIANGLE.

thus to produce
orange, a disk containing a larger proportion of red and a smaller
proportion of green is used, and so on.

To represent these fundamental facts and hold them in mind the
so-called color triangle has been constructed (fig. 1). At the angles
of this triangle are placed the primary hues, the other spectral hues
being distributed along its two sides at distances which are propor-
tional to their wave lengths and the purples along its base, which,
since these hues are absent from the spectrum, is represented by a
broken line.

But white light can be produced in still another way, namely, by
retinal synthesis of certain pairs of hues which on this account are
called complementary. Thus red and greenish-blue, yellow and blue,
orange and blue-violet are complementary. We may express this all-
important fact by stating that for every spectral hue there is another
which when mixed with it on the retina in approximately equal quan-

1It would be pure white were it possible to obtain artificial pigments that reflected none
other than their own characteristic hwes.
728 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tities produces the sensation of white. When other than equal pro-
portions of complementary hues are chosen, colors are produced
which are of hues intermediate between those of the complementaries
and which are mixed with varying degrees of white. They are in-
completely saturated colors. These facts may be satisfactorily rep-
resented by finding a point, called W, inside the color triangle, so
that any straight line passing through it will on striking the sides
of the triangle join two hues which produce white. This method of
finding the complementaries necessarily implies that they must be
separated from one another by a considerable distance on the spec-
trum. For representing these facts a circle instead of a triangle may
be employed, and for practical purposes, in the use of colors in paint-
ing, such a circle has been found more useful than the triangle.
Before we proceed to explain its use, however, it may be well to
indicate some of the applications which can be made in art of the
facts we have already learned. |

It is in pointilism that this application is most evident. In this
method the pigments are laid down in minute areas or spots or lines
so that when the picture is viewed from a certain distance, the dif-
ferent hues act on the same nerve endings of the retina and there-
fore produce the same effect as if they had been superimposed, as by
the use of Maxwell’s disks. Thus, if a white surface be dotted over
with red, green, and violet, or any other primary colors, or with red
and greenish-blue, or any other complementary colors, the surface at
a certain distance will appear grayish white. If, in any of the com-
binations, one hue be in preponderance of the others the gray will
become correspondingly tinted, so that a complete picture may be
built up of areas which on close inspection are a mosaic of pure
colors, but appear at a distance as tinted grays.

The impressionists, Monet, Segantini, etc., appear to have laid as
the basis of their picture a gray at the brightness (or value) which
they desired each portion of it to assume. On these surfaces they then
applied color more or less pointilisticaily. The neo-impressionists,
such as Seurat and Segniac, on the other hand, went a step further in
that the saturation was made to depend entirely on the synthetic
principle. They laid on their pigments strictly in dots on a surface
which was as nearly pure white as possible. Some of these neo-im-
pressionists had, however, already begun to apply certain of the prin-
ciples of color apposition in masses which we shall study later. To
build up a picture pointilistically must obviously greatly increase the
technical difficulties of the artist, especially with regard to outline
and form; his freedom of expression is also seriously curtailed. It
becomes necessary therefore that very great advantages should be the
outcome of such labor. Among the advantages are the sense of at-
mosphere, the vibrating, scintillating quality of the color areas and the
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION—-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 729

very satisfactory transitions at the edges between them, all of which
are qualities that can be rendered in no way so satisfactorily as by
pointilism.

There can be little doubt that a great part of the peculiar impression
produced by pointilism depends upon the slight movements which the
eyeballs are constantly undergoing, even during our most intent fix-
ation. This of course produces a certain amount of overlapping of
the colors on the retina just as when they are superimposed by means
of Maxwell’s machine. In the same way vibrations of the eyelids
by moving the eyelashes across the palpebral cleft assist in the syn-
thesis, this being made evident by half closing the eyes, a method
often used in studying pictures. |

The success with which the desired impression can be created in a
pointilistic picture often depends upon the purity of the colored dots,
its vibrating quality being at the same time much enhanced by leaving
a narrow margin of white around each dot. When this is successfully
done there comes into play another physiological process known as
flicker, which can be experimentally produced by rotating disks with
black and white sectors at a speed which is just insufficient to cause a
uniform gray. The resulting flicker possesses a glittering quality
which makes it appear of distinctly greater brightness than the gray
which results from complete synthesis. ‘The same thing may be seen
by observing the spokes of a wheel revolving at different velocities.
Instead of black and white the sectors may be composed of different
hues.

In the flicker experiments the gray remains of the same degree of
saturation at whatever rate the disk is revolving, provided it is re-
volving more quickly than is necessary to produce complete fusion,
and so in pointilistic painting, when the picture is viewed beyond the
distance at which fusion occurs the impression is practically that of
the older painting. It must be viewed at a distance just short of that
which is necessary to produce complete synthesis. The post impres-
sionists, such as Cezanne, Matisse, etc., realizing this limitation in
pointilism, have been searching after a method by which the color
scheme maintains its effect on us at whatever distance the picture is
viewed. The physiological principle upon which this depends is
that known as contrast, and this we will now proceed to study.
Being a property exhibited most strikingly in the case of comple-
mentary hues, it becomes necessary for us to have, besides the color
triangle, some simple experimental methods by which the comple-
mentary hues may be determined. Such methods include the experi-
ments of simultaneous and successive contrast, in connection with
which many facts of fundamental importance in the use of pigments
are brought to light.
730 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Simultaneous contrast is illustrated by regarding a strip of gray
against a colored field when the gray becomes tinted with the comple-
mentary hue. There are two simple methods for performing this
experiment, one is to spin a colored disk, midway between the center
and circumference of which is a circle, composed partly of black and
partly of white; this synthesizes to a gray which becomes tinted with
the complementary hue of the colored field. The other way is to lay
a narrow strip of gray paper (cut as a zigzag) on a colored sheet and
then to cover the whole with thin tissue paper; the gray will assume
the complementary hue. No experiments in color vision are more
striking than these, nor are there any that have more direct appli-
cation in the use of colors in picture painting; thus, a gray wall
viewed against a sunlit background of green is no gray, but like the
piece of paper in our experiment it becomes tinted of a purplish hue.
Similarly, a shadow cast on yellow sand is blue, and one thrown on
the skin when this is otherwise in strong light often acquires a strik-
ing quality of green.

The phenomenon of successive contrast is elicited by steadily regard-
ing a patch of a certain color for some time and then either closing
the eyes, or better still, directing the gaze to a neutral surface, such
as a gray untinted wall. <A vivid color impression of the same shape
as that of the colored patch previously looked at will be seen in both
cases, but exhibiting a hue which is complementary to that of the
patch.

In the experiments above described the complementary color is
demonstrated by the use of a gray surface. It is evident, however,
that, if we cause it to be projected against a background which itself
possesses a certain hue, the two hues (the complementary and that
of the regarded surface) will become blended and will have the same
effect as if they had been spun on a Maxwell’s disk. For example,
suppose we regard for some time a blue surface and then direct the
gaze to one of red, the impression will be that of orange, because the
complementary of blue, being yellow, fuses with red and produces
orange.

Having determined the complementaries by means of these contrast
methods we may confirm our results by color synthesis; thus suppos-
ing we have determined by the contrast methods that the comple-
mentary for a certain yellow is a certain blue, we may proceed to
ascertain whether this is strictly the case by preparing disks composed
of these two hues and rotating them on Maxwell’s machine. If the
hues are complementary the greatest possible degree of whiteness
will be produced.

Successive contrast finds only a limited application in art, although
it is of course conceivable that the intensive fixation of one colored
area in a painting or a design might, by successive contrast, greatly
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION—-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 731

modify the colored impression created by shifting the eyes to another
part. It is improbable, however, that any artist has laid on his pig-
ments with this object in view. Nevertheless, successive contrast
may assist us greatly in the actual determination of the comple-
mentary hue. Thus, to take again our example of the gray wall
against the green background, we may exaggerate the effect of the
green on the gray by regarding the green for some time and then
shifting the gaze to the wall, when its purplish hue will be found to
be much intensified.

Simultaneous contrast, on the other hand, is of paramount impor-
tance in art; indeed, it is as important in the final impression pro-
duced by a painting or a design as any other quality which this may
possess. This importance depends on the fact that when two colored
surfaces are placed in apposition each becomes changed as if it were
mixed to a certain extent with the complementary hue of the other;
or if a gray or a tint of low saturation (see p. 733) is apposed against
a saturated color field it will assume a complementary hue of greater
or less saturation, according to the relative area of brightness of the
apposing areas. By applying these principles in picture painting
unsaturated hues may be caused to assume much greater degrees of
saturation, while, if the apposition be false, hues in themselves of
almost complete saturation may become dull and subdued.

To the artist it comes to be of the highest importance that he
possess some easily remembered scheme by which he can predict these
contrast effects. The color triangle may be thus employed, but a
sunpler, though perhaps less scientific device, for the same purpose is
the chromatic circle of Rood (fig. 2). To construct such a circle we
must know the wave lengths of the various colors which we desire to
contrast.1. The differences in wave lengths are then calculated so as
to correspond to angular differences, these angles being formed by
the radii of the circle. As in the color triangle, opposite radii will
join complementary colors and the center will represent white light;
1. e., the nearer the center the less will be the saturation of the color.

If one such circle, drawn on transparent paper, be superimposed on
another, the effect which is produced by contrasting two colors can be
readily ascertained. Thus, suppose we desire to determine the influ-
ence which red has when contrasted with the other colors. Having
accurately superimposed the two circles we move the transparent one
so that the point on it which corresponds to red is displaced along
the line joining red and its complimentary, blue-green. The colors on
the upper circle will now stand in positions on the lower correspond-
ing to the changes in hue and saturation which they would have
suffered by contrast with red. Thus orange will stand nearer the

1This can be done by comparing the colors with those of a highly magnified spectrum
of white light alongside of which is a scale of wave lengths.
732 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

center and somewhat nearer yellow, whereas green-blue will merely
be removed farther from the center, which means that orange will
become less saturated and yellower, whereas green-blue will increase
in saturation but be unaltered in hue.

In general we may say that the effect produced by contrasting two
colors is to move them farther apart on the chromatic circle, thus
causing mainly a change in hue in the case of colors that stand near
one another, but making a change in saturation in those which are far
apart.

In order that the contrast effects may be taken full advantage of
certain conditions must be fulfilled. The most important of these are
as follows: (1) The complementary tint which gray assumes is most
vivid when it is somewhat darker (1. e., of less brightness, see p. 734)

than the hue against
y which it is apposed, in
the case of the warm
colors (the reds,
oranges, and yellows),
\ and when it is lighter
in the case of the cold
colors (the greens and
blues). The dividing
line between the warm

f

IX
iA
~~ eH - aw”

2D

D

Fic. 2.—RooD’s CHROMATIC CIRCLES AS USED TO SHOW THE
INFLUENCE OF ONE COLOR ON THE OTHERS.

i
E x¢@ and cold colors may be
é f taken as that joining
2 is the complementaries,
a Ps yellow-green and vio-

let. (2) When a color
of low saturation (i. e.,
nearly a gray) is ap-

posed to one of high
saturation and of complementary hue the former will become more
saturated, and, conversely, if two colors which are identical in hue
but of unequal saturation be apposed the paler one may appear gray.
When they are not complementary the hue which undergoes the
greater change is that which is the paler. (3) The greatest effects
are produced when the color field whose hue it is desired to alter is
much smaller in extent than that of its complementary and when it is
completely surrounded by the latter. By placing a thick black line
between the areas the complementary effects may be suppressed.
Thus the complementary hue which a piece of gray paper placed on
a colored field assumes when it is viewed through tissue paper be-
comes much less evident if a thick black line be drawn on the tissue
paper at the edge of the gray. When the color areas are large, it is at
the edge only that the complementary influence is noticeable. On
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION—-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 1733

the other hand, when a colored area is very small it undergoes no
complementary change, but merely blends with the neighboring color.
(4) To obtain full advantage of color apposition the colored patterns
should be very simple and of similar texture and their surfaces should
be broken up by detail to the least possible degree. (5) The most
marked complementary effects are obtained when the opposing hues
are of equal brightness.

When we attempt to employ the chromatic circle for another pur-
pose, namely, for determining what will be pleasing and what dis-
pleasing color combinations, we find that its use is somewhat limited.
This is because a psychological influence enters into our judgment in
such cases. In general, however, it may be taken as a working
hypothesis that good combinations are always more than 80-90°
apart on the circle; that is, they should be separated from one an-
other by about one-quarter of the circumference. Even complimen-
taries may form displeasing combinations (i. e., certain reds and
greens), in which case, as Rood has pointed out, the hues are usually
far removed from the line which separates those that are cold and
warm. When we are compelled to appose hues having a hurtful
influence on one another, the unpleasing impression which they create
may be lessened by certain expedients, such as by assigning one of the
hues to a much smaller field, or by decreasing the saturation of one of
them, or by adding a third hue whose position on the chromatic circle
is as far as possible removed from the others; thus the disagreeable
effect of a yellowish-green and yellow is much improved by the addi-
tion of some violet, ete.

So far, for the sake of simplicity, we have regarded but one quality
of a color, its hue, although in doing this it has been impossible en-
tirely to neglect the closely related qualities of brightness and satura-
tion. These we shall now proceed to consider.

Brightness is most marked, under ordinary conditions of illumina-
tion, around the yellow portions of the spectrum. It is a property
which is exhibited in marked degree by different grays. Indeed, it
is measured by finding a gray which appears of equal brightness to
that of a given color. Such measurements may be made with con-
siderable accuracy by finding a gray background against which the
color becomes indistinguishable when viewed by the very outermost
portions of the retina which are color blind; that is, which see no hue
in a color but only a grayness, the degree of which is proportional to
the brightness of the color.t. To make such comparisons, the person
must regard a dot in the center of a plain black surface and must then

1The power to judge hue depends on the presence in the retina of peculiar nerve end-
ings called cones. These are absent from the peripheral portions and only gradually make
their appearance toward the center. There is, therefore, a region between the periphery

and the center of the retina which is partly color blind, blue and yellow being perceptible,
but red and green still appearing as gray,
734 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

gradually move a small piece of colored or of gray paper, mounted on
a. suitable handle, from the periphery toward the center of the sur-
face. At a certain position the colored paper will be seen as gray,
because the rays of light from it are striking the color-blind areas of
the retina. Various grays are used until one is found which matches
exactly with that created by the colored paper. A still simpler
method consists in rotating the color on a Maxwell disk along with a
synthetic gray. In this case judgment of equality may, however, be
somewhat confused on account of the gray assuming the comple-
mentary hue.

Brightness playsa most important part inthe phenomenon of con-
trast, for not only is the simultaneous contrast of hues obtained most
strikingly when these are of equal brightness, but we constantly ex-
perience brightness contrasting itself. Thus pieces of the same gray
paper placed on gray backgrounds of varying degrees of brightness
do not look at all alike. It is particularly at the border between the
two grays that contrast brightness is most evident. This subserves
the function of creating a sharp border between the grays, and it can
be demonstrated by causing strips of different gray papers to over-
lap one another like the tiles of a roof or, still more strikingly, by
rotating a dise on which when spun appear three circles of different
grays, each synthesized from black and white. In both experiments
the grays, though really perfectly uniform, will appear as if shaded
from their edges.

Since we measure brightness in terms of grayness, and since it is
most marked at the yellow portion of the spectrum, it follows that if
we desire, for successful contrast effects in picture painting, to appose
yellows with blues or deep reds, we must employ some artificial
means either to increase the brightness of the blues or reds or to de-
crease that of the yellows. This can be done by mixing the pigments
with white (or black), that is to say, we may alter what the artist
speaks of as the value of the color but which in so far as white is
used for producing the alteration is more correctly called the satura-
tion.

It may indeed be said that the object sought in mixing pigments
with white (i. e., changing their saturation) is to give the impression
that their properties of brightness have been altered.‘ - When it is
desired to raise the brightness of a given color, we can succeed only
to a limited degree by using more pigment; to obtain it further, we
must, as already explained, employ the property of simultaneous
contrast. These methods used by the artist to alter the brightness of
his colors are, however, liable to have a dulling effect on the whole
composition unless they are used with great care and judgment.

1 Brightness must be distinguished from color intensity, which is purely a physical
property and depends upon the amplitude of the wave lengths,
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION-—KELLER AND MACLEOD. 135

When he is compelled to lower the saturation of one color he must
be careful to apply those neighboring on it in such a manner as to
give the impression that the whole of that portion of the picture is
of the same brightness. This he may do, either by making his pig-
ments of similar saturation of by assorting the size of the colored
areas, so that they appear by contrast to be of similar saturation.

It is a well-known fact that our judgment of the relative brightness
of colors, and to a certain extent of their hues, becomes altered when
the conditions of illumination are changed. A picture viewed in
broad daylight may create a very different impression from that
which it produces in dull illumination. For example, its hues may
be dull and muddy under the conditions of illumination that are
ordinarily present in a dwelling, or even in a gallery, whereas when
viewed in broad daylight it may sparkle with brilliancy, or there
may be very little change in the actual hues, but the portions of the
picture which appeared to be of greatest brightness in broad day-
light may in dull light actually shift to some other part. These
changes are due to what is known as adaptation of the retina. The
most striking illustration of this is furnished by observing the colors
of a flower border after sundown. Let us suppose that the border
contains geraniums (scarlet), lobelia (blue), and coreopsis (orange).
As darkness approaches it will be noticed that the red geraniums be-
come duller and duller until at last they turn black; that the orange
coreopsis also becomes more neutral, but that the blue lobelia main-
tains the same color qualities as it possessed in daylight. |The most
remarkable change of all occurs, however, not in the hues, but in the
relative brightnes of the colors, for it will be noticed that the sensa-
tion of greatest brightness has gradually shifted from the reds and
yellows to the blues and greens, so that the foliage and the lobelia
may actually come to appear brighter than the coreopsis and the
geraniums. It is needless to point out how important an apprecia-
tion of these adaptations must be to the artist; how careful he must
be to paint his picture in the degree of illumination in which he ex-
pects it to be viewed. The physiological explanation of this adapta-
tion is that the outer portions of the retina assume a much greater
degree of sensitiveness in dull light, indeed, they come to be more
sensitive than the central portion itself. This curious change ex-
plains why without directly looking at it we may be conscious of the
presence of a small light in the darkness—a star for example—which,
however, disappears when we direct our gaze to it. The ability of
the thus sensitized outer portions of the retina to judge colors differs
from that of the central portion.

When we come to apply many of the principles of chromatics in
art, we are met with difficulties which at first sight, may appear to
be insurmountable. In most instances, however, this is by no means
736 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the case, and we shall now endeavor to show how certain of these
difficulties can be explained. First of all, with regard to the mixing
of pigments as compared with the mixing of colored lights, of course
the two processes yield very different results: for example, mixing
yellow and blue lights, as we have seen, produces almost pure white,
whereas mixing these colors as pigments, as every artist knows,
produces green. The entire want of similarity in the results which
follow the mixing of colors by the two methods has had the effect
of making some artists conclude that the laws of chromatics are use-
less as guides in the practical use of pigments. But this is wrong,
the apparent difference being, really due to a very simple cause,
namely, to the fact that by mixing pigment we substract the color rays
from entering the eye, whereas we add such rays when we mix colored
lights. To make this clear let us return to our example of blue and
yellow. When we use these as pigments, we must remember that
the pigment particles have a certain degree of transparency so that
light partly penetrates them, certain rays being ther. reflected and
certain absorbed according to the hue. A blue pigment, for example,
absorbs all constituent rays of white light except the blue and the
hues which border on blue in the spectrum, it being impossible to
procure pigments which are so pure that they do not let some other
hues besides their own characteristic one pass through them. Simi-
larly, yellow absorbs all the spectral rays save the yellow, the
orange, and the green. Adding these two pigments together, we get
every spectral ray absorbed except green, a certain amount of which
both pigments have allowed to pass. In a similar way we can ex-
plain why blue and red give purple and why a mixture of all the
spectral colors as pigments produces a dark gray of uncertain hue.

The above applies to a matt surface; when there is any trace of
glaze, there comes into play another factor which we must now con-
sider, namely, surface reflection of some white light Avhich has not
penetrated the pigment particles at all, and which therefore causes
the color to be more or less unsaturated. It is by diminishing sur-
face reflection of white light that the colors of a picture may be
raised in saturation by subjecting it to alechol vapor, which softens
the medium and removes surface cracks. Reflection of white light
also takes place at the surface of the pigment particles themselves,
and is greatly diminished when these are extremely small, hence the
importance in the manufacture of pigments of thorough grinding.
It is further minimized by suspending the pigments in oil, because
this causes the light before it strikes the surface of the pigment par-
ticles to pass through a medium which is of approximately the same
density as that of the particles themselves. This reduces the reflec-
tion, because the greater the difference of density between two media
the greater the reflection of light at the interface between them.
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION-—KELLER AND MACLEOD. 737

The quickly vibrating (blue) rays of the spectrum tend to be re-
flected more readily than the slowly vibrating (red) rays, hence we
often find that a substance is bluish by reflected light, whereas it is
reddish when the light passes through it. It is, indeed, for this rea-
son that during the day the sky looks blue, the light being reflected
from the fine particles of dust and moisture which are constantly
suspended in it, whereas after the sun has set it is red because the
slanting rays come to be transmitted through these particles.

Artificial illumination alters the hues of pictures mainly because of
mixture of colored lights; that is to say, of the hue of the light re-
flected from the surface of the picture and of the hue due to the par-
ticular pigments employed, Thus, i. we regard a picture in yellow
light (gas, carbon filament, etc.), the pale blues may appear white
(mixing of complementary colors), the deeper blues assume a green-
ish hue, and the reds turn to orange.

In the colors which we see in nature influences of a similar kind
are constantly at play, for every object, besides being illuminated by
the prevailing light, has thrown on to it colors which are reflected
from near-by objects. In analyzing these influences there are, as
Rood has pointed out, at least three factors that must be borne in
mind. ‘These are (1) the natural or “local color” of the object,
the cause for which we have already explained; (2) the colored light
which is reflected unaltered from its surface, just as we have seen
white light to be; (3) the portion of this colored light which is not
entirely reflected but which penetrates the surface and is then re-
flected. Let us suppose that we are regarding a red wall of glazed
brick at the edge of a grass lawn: the local brick red. of the wall
will be materially altered by surface reflection not only of the white
light but also of blue-green which, being approximately its comple-
mentary, tends to lower its saturation and pull it toward neutrality ;
at the same time, the green rays which have penetrated will on re-
flection assume a yellowish orange hue. The total effect is therefore
that the red is somewhat removed toward neutrality and at the same
time made to assume an orange hue. But it is by no means always
possible to analyze these color effects, so that we must depend rather
on the accuracy of the impression which we receive, at the same time
bearing in mind that even objects with which we usually associate
the most positive of hues may-under certain conditions become en-
tirely altered in this regard. In their use of colors, the post-impres-
sionists are most careful to allow for these influences, although they
may employ hues to produce them which at-first sight appear to be
entirely out of place, -

Finally, we--must say -a. few: words about the relative. refracta-
bility of different colors; that is to say, the ease with which the

44863°—s 1913-—47
738 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

different spectral hues are brought to a focus on the retina. The rays
of slow vibration, as at the red end of the spectrum, are less readily
focused than those which vibrate quickly, as at the violet end. Con-
sequently, when red rays are in focus, violet rays are overfocused and
vice versa. The application of these principles in art depends on the
fact that our judgment of distance is partly associated with the
amount of effort which we must make in order to accommodate our
vision. At rest the optical apparatus of the eye is accommodated
for distant objects so that when these come nearer than a certain
point an effort is required to make the focusing stronger. From the
amount of this effort we judge in part of the distance of the object.
Now, it takes more effort to focus red than green or blue rays so that
we always tend to locate a red object as being nearer than one that is
blue or green. These facts can be very beautifully demonstrated by
looking at red and green lamps placed side by side; the green light
appears to be behind the red. And in picture painting the same
principles can be applied, and seem to be so in many of the post-im-
pressionists’ paintings; objects are brought forward by being colored
in the reds and they are pushed back by the use of blues and violets.

These facts bring us to a discussion of the influence of the blue-
violet line which so many post-impressionists are using to outline ob-
jects to which they desire, without shading, to give the impression of
rotundity, or more correctly, of projection. The effect of such a line
is perhaps best demonstrated in still-life studies where its existence
at the edges of, say, a vase, will, when the picture is viewed at such a
distance that the line just disappears, cause the vase not only to
stand forward from its background but also make it appear rotund,
as if shaded toward the edges. The line is sometimes used in land-
scape pictures with the object of holding the pattern together. These
effects are most marked when the object is painted in hues that are
considerably removed from blue on the chromatic circle, or are of
much less saturation (more removed toward neutrality). Similar
effects can sometimes be obtained by the use of a black line, but none
of the flaring hues can be successfully employed for making it. It
is difficult to explain the action of these outlines; indeed, it is almost
certain that several factors play a role in producing the illusion
which they create. When the line is a blue one and the prevailing
hue of the color field which it borders tends toward yellow a syn-
thetic gray will result at a certain distance, thus creating the impres-
sion that some space exists between the object and its surroundings.
When a black line separates two colored areas there occurs a certain
amount of irradiation on to it of the neighboring hues, which there-
fore undergo a more or less sudden lowering of intensity at its edges,
which become more and more pronounced toward the middle of the
line until the hues finally meet and partly overlap, thus producing a
PHYSIOLOGY OF COLOR VISION—-KELLER AND MACLEOD. 739

certain amount of synthetic gray. This phenomenon of irradiation
is well illustrated by comparing two squares of equal size, one being
black on a white field and the other white on a black field; the white
square looks distinctly larger than the black one. The reason is that
the stimulus produced by white, mainly because of imperfect focus-
ing, spreads on the retina somewhat beyond the margin of its image.

In this account we have not essayed to explain all of the peculiar
effects which are produced by some of the most modern creations of
the so-called post-impressionists. We have merely indicated some of
the physiological truths of color vision upon which certain of their
color illusions depend. To go further would require consideration of
many optical illusions for which at present there exists no satisfac-
tory explanation. These are not illusions of color but illusions of
line; indeed, many of the latest post-impressionistic pictures are pro-
duced almost entirely in black and white, and the peculiar emotions
which they arouse depend on metaphysical processes whose explana-
tion we can not undertake to expound. Their aim is “to create an
illusion of the fact” rather than the fact itself; to write “a visual
music which shall in itself arouse the emotions.”
Ke Sane 2 ‘ hs | ii3
7 AL ee) iF He : a hz pity : ie 3 i a SET |
ee oar ee a y Nita ba Bowe | a
AL , eer

itt ve adT Dae
Shes A TS ee

f
ig
is

FUNDAMENTALS OF HOUSING REFORM.’

By Dr. JAMES TForp,
Harvard University.

A housing problem may be said to exist wherever any portion of a
population dwells under conditions dangerous to health, safety, or
morality. The problem is present to some degree in every American
city. It is usually occasioned primarily by the lack of guidance of
urban growth, by poor planning of buildings, faulty construction,
and defective sanitation; it is aggravated by the greed of some
landlords, the carelessness of some tenants, and ignorance of the
laws of hygiene on the part of both. The result of bad housing is ill
health, both physical and moral, and thereby industrial inefficiency,
unemployment, and a long chain of preventable social maladies,
which are very costly to the community, and which place a heavy
handicap upon individual and social achievement.

HOUSING AND PUBLIC HEALTH.

Man’s dwelling exerts a marked influence upon his life and char-
acter. From one-third to one-half of his time—and much more
than half of the time of women and children—is spent in the home.
Bad housing conditions affect health insidiously by slowly under-
mining the vitality and thus rendering the individual susceptible to
disease. But bad housing conditions also constitute an environment
favorable to the life of the germs of a number of diseases. For ex-
ample, the bacillus of pulmonary tuberculosis can live for weeks and
even months in a dark, damp, ill-ventilated and ill-kept environ-
ment—in other words, in basement dwellings, in dark halls and dark
chambers. The germ of typhoid fever may not only be conveyed
through the water or milk supply of a city, but is stated also to be
carried by flies and vermin from the filth in which it was deposited
to the food of urban households.

Thus a city with an insanitary water supply, or with manure pits
and garbage pails uncovered in which the fly may breed and privies
in which the bacillus may be picked up, is an environment favorable

1 Revised and extended by author from article in ‘‘ The American City,’ New York,

May, 1913.
741
742 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

to the spread of typhoid fever. The tenement house with its halls,
stairs, and water closets shared by many families becomes a sort of
clearing-house of the contagious diseases—scarlet fever, measles, etc.
The common water-closet may be the source of spread of venereal
disease. The indiscriminate overcrowding of sleeping rooms by both
sexes may result in the spread of the same diseases and also in an
undermining of the health of adolescents and adults through neu-
rasthenia and other diseases which over-stimulation of sexual instinct
and its unsatisfactory fulfillment may occasion.

HOUSING AND PUBLIC SAFETY.

The safety of an urban population is in many ways affected by
housing conditions. The overcrowding of lots with buildings erected
of combustible material creates a serious conflagration risk, especially
where buildings are of frame exterior or are used both as stores and
dwellings, as is common in our large American cities. Fire escapes
reduce the danger to tenants from fire, but improperly constructed
fire escapes constitute a new risk from accident. The presence of
stores, bakeries, and work shops in nonfireproof tenement houses;
the storage of combustible materials, such as rags, paints, etc.; the
encumbrance of fire escapes; the proximity of railroads, and the
manufacture of explosives—all affect in varying degree the safety of
the tenant.

HOUSING AND MORALITY.

Intimately dependent upon the housing conditions is the morality
of the population. The crowding of rooms with three or more
members of a family, children of both sexes sleeping together or with
parents, and the presence of lodgers within the tenement make im-
possible the maintenance of high standards of personal decency.
Premature knowledge of sex function by the children is the inevitable
result of overcrowding, and often morbid stimulation of sex instincts,
sex perversion and vice originate in room congestion. Yet indis-
criminate crowding of sleeping rooms prevails very widely within
the immigrant population groups of our cities. The dark halls and
common toilets add to the menace for the growing children of the
tenements; and frequently the presence of commercialized vice within
residence quarters familiarizes the child with the worst element of
our civilization before the child’s mind is far enough developed to
resist the superficial allurement.

HOUSING AND EFFICIENCY.

A general reduction of vitality, or disease of any sort acquired
through residence under conditions above described, results neces-
sarily in reduction of industrial efficiency. Disease causes absence
from work, which means reduced earnings, increased expenses, and
HOUSING REFORM-——FORD. 743

perhaps also a long period of unemployment before new work is
found. In extreme examples a state of mind which has been termed
“slum disease” is apparent, in which individuals have become chron-
ically indifferent or careless because they have found themselves
unable to cope effectively with an always depressing environment.
The serious effect of this attitude of mind upon industrial output is
obvious.
HOUSING AND SOCIAL WELFARE.

It is impossible to create a high civilization in a democracy where
a large portion of the population must exert its entire life in strug-
gling against destructive environmental conditions. The body is
the tool of both mind and soul. <A healthy body is a first requisite
of the largest moral life. An individual can contribute little to the
promotion of general well-being until rid of the weakness or pain
which ill health causes. The essential prerequisite of efficient democ-
racy is a healthful home life, with elimination of all the destructive
elements now present in our slums and with the presence of the con-
structive elements—sanitation, safety, ventilation, sunlight, space,
privacy, and beauty.

HOUSING LEGISLATION.

Public action, to render the existing slum less dangerous to physical
and moral health, begins in “health acts,’ the provision of public
water supply, public sewage systems, and the regular collection of
refuse. Modern cities or States usually go further and frame health
laws, governing the minimum sanitary conditions of existing dwell-
ings. In America the inspection under these laws ordinarily falls as
an additional task to existing health or police departments. Build-
ing codes, enforced by a local department of buildings, generally
set minimum standards for the construction of new buildings. There
is a definite modern tendency to fuse requirements covering new and
old tenement houses in tenement house acts or housing acts passed
by State legislatures. Such acts may apply to specified cities, to
cities of specified classes, or to an entire State, and may be either
compulsory or permissive. The requirements should cover height of
new or altered buildings, size of yards, courts, rooms, the lighting
of rooms and halls, fireproofing, etc., and should establish standards
of sanitation and upkeep which would make it impossible for any
person to build or occupy a tenement which is demonstrably danger-
ous to health, safety, or morality. Administration under such acts
should be definitely provided for, with ample penalties and ample
funds for continuous and careful inspection, and for all office work
involved under the act. The details of such laws are suggested by
the experience of New York City, New Jersey State, Columbus, and
by Mr. Lawrence Veiller’s recent book “A Model Housing Law.”
744 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19138.

THE CITY PLAN AND THE HOUSING PROBLEM.

The planning of cities involves the adjustment of the physical re-
sources of the city to meet the needs of its population, present and
future. The proper planning of cities may be made to improve hous-
ing conditions in a variety of ways. The functions of city planning
may be considered conveniently under two captions. First, the re-
modeling of the old city, and second, the determination of the mode of
development of new sections. Of these the first program is largely
remedial in character, while the second is fundamentally preventive.

From the housing point of view the remodeling of portions of the
city already built may not have a marked effect upon the dwelling
conditions of the population in quarters so treated. In any district in
which streets are widened or trees or grass strips are placed, impetus
for the remodeling of old buildings is likely to be purely superficial.
A new brick face may be placed on an old insanitary building. The
dark room may remain. Still under such conditions the occupants
profit by an increase of light and air from the widened street, by
purification of air where trees are placed and by the increased
beauty of their outlook.

THE INSANITARY AREA.

City planning within the heart of a built-up city may also involve
schemes for dealing in a large way with districts in which the houses
are highly insanitary and are beyond repair, positively unsafe, and
dangerous to health and morality. There are many ways in which a
district of this sort can be treated. First, it may be neglected by
health and tenement departments that are overworked and unable
to deal with a problem so large and apparently hopeless. In the sec-
ond place an attempt might be made to repair the district, either at
the cost of the city or by the city at the cost of the owners (the Bir-
mingham method), or the owners might be ordered to make the neces-
sary repairs at their own expense. Special powers would be necessary
if improvements on private estates are to be made by the municipality
at public expense. The third program would undoubtedly result in a
patchwork reform. No one of these programs is adequate to deal
with such districts; they are merely palliative and might reduce but
would not destroy the unhealthfulness of such a district.

Another possibility would be the complete destruction of the entire
area by the city. This might be done with the intention of replacing
the area with a park—as was done by New York City, for example, in
the notorious Mulberry Bend—or the area could be rebuilt by the city
with municipal dwellings or other buildings. The cost of the first
half of this latter program renders it undesirable if there is a cheaper
alternative which is equally effective. As for the latter, municipal
HOUSING REFORM—FORD. 745

rebuilding of insanitary areas, even in London and Liverpool, where
municipal housing is an accepted form of municipal business, has
never proved a paying undertaking, chiefly for the following reasons:
- 1. The original cost of the land and of the destruction of the insan-
itary houses is either prohibitive or places a too heavy initial charge
upon the undertaking.

2. It has been found impossible to build municipal tenements on
the same area to house healthfully as many persons as were dishoused
by the slum-clearance scheme.

3. The original dishoused population tends to crowd with other
families in small tenements while the area is being rebuilt, and does
not return to the new buildings when completed, largely because the
rents are inevitably higher than they were for the original accommo-
dation.

4. It becomes profitable for a low class of speculators to buy insan-
itary property and hold it unrepaired in the hope that the Govern-
ment will purchase it for a slum-clearance scheme of this sort, paying
them, as is usually the case, more for the land and buildings than they
are really worth.

Even if these arguments were not operative in American cities,
municipal housing would for the present at least be undesirable,
both because it is unnecessary (private capital, properly encouraged,
can be relied upon to provide the necessary accommodations) and
also because in our American cities we can not guarantee the con-
tinued employment of expert men to operate a municipal housing
department. Municipal housing will not pay where long tenure of
office can not be guaranteed to efficient administrators, or where poli-
tics and slender appropriations can ruin the work of competent

administrators.
TAXATION OF LAND VALUES.

Another possible way of dealing with such an area deserves very
serious and extensive consideration, and that is the use of a system
of heavy taxation of land values or of the unearned increment. As
these measures involve many other considerations besides those of
housing, these other bearings of the subject should, of course, be
studied with utmost care before the adoption of the scheme. As a
fiscal measure, however, the taxation of the unearned increment from
Jand values is, without doubt, a peculiarly just form of taxation and
is calculated to bring large annual sums into the city treasury. There .
is no question that the community is chiefly responsible for increases
in land values. It is just, therefore, for the community to appropri-
ate such increases in value, especially if it can do so without placing
any hardship upon industry. The only serious difficulties arise in
determining a practical method of appropriation and assessment.
746 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The diverse schemes of New Zealand, Germany, England, and west-
ern Canada should, therefore, be studied, and the desirability of
using one of these methods should be considered.

The application of a heavy tax on land values (Vancouver method)
in the district under consideration [a district in which the value of
the land far exceeds the value of improvements upon the land] would
have a marked effect upon housing conditions, and would be the
cheapest way (assuming that a just method of appropriation was
found and employed) in which the city could deal with this district.
If the tax were taken off the buildings within such a district and the
entire tax was levied upon land, the owners of this property would
find it unprofitable to hold their land in its present wretched state.
If the entire tax of the city were levied upon land values, the owners
of all property that is improved would find their taxes reduced, but
the holders of vacant land or of land uneconomically developed would
find their taxes increased, and would be confronted with the necessity
of building or of selling to some individual who would be willing to
build.

IMPORTANCE OF RADIAL STREETS.

The housing conditions of a city are affected materially by the
street plan. If suburbs are not accessible directly and cheaply from
the centers of industry and commerce, population will tend to crowd
in tenements near the heart of the city. Suburbs are rendered espe-
cially accessible by means of broad, direct, radial streets, suggestively
termed the arteries of the city. Many American cities are built upon
a gridiron plan of streets, which renders certain suburbs peculiarly
remote because accessible only by following two legs of a triangle
instead of following directly upon the hypotenuse. |

TENEMENT VERSUS COTTAGE.

The type of city plan which should be secured for your city must
depend upon our answer to the question, What is the most desirable
dwelling place, the tenement or the cottage? In the cities of the
Northeastern States we have become accustomed to the tenement
house and do not ordinarily question its social utility. There is
scarcely a city in the country that is attempting in any well-consid-
ered way to eliminate the tenement house, yet there can be no ques-
tion but that it is an undesirable place of residence for families with
children. Even for the childless family, the most expensive apart-
ment house as well as the cheapest tenement may constitute an unde-
sirable environment, because of the facility with which disease may
spread from one apartment to its neighbor through the common hall
and through the mediation of vermin which pass easily from one
suite to another.
HOUSING REFORM—-FORD. T47

Where people live in apartments there is also concentration of pop-
ulation and hence much traffic in the neighboring streets, which keeps
the air full of dust and noise and thus renders apartment living un-
desirable. The sounds from neighboring apartments frequently make
rest and quiet impossible. True privacy and solitude, though very
important to the moral growth of the individual, are difficult to
obtain.

For the family with children the apartment is still less desirable.
It becomes impossible for the mother of a family to choose the asso-
ciates for her children, to prevent her child from coming in contact
with children or adults of unwholesome character who may reside
within the same building. The tenement mother can not supervise
the outdoor play of her child. In general the atmosphere of the
tenement or apartment house is one destined to create a race of adults
that are unhealthful, puny, and socially highly artificialized.

In the cottage, however, it is possible to obtain all necessary pri-
vacy for true home life and personal development. The reduced dust
of suburban communities and the larger penetration of sunlight make
cottage homes healthier living places for infants and growing chil-
dren. The mother of the family, while at work in her Kitchen, can
supervise the play and the associates of her child in the garden. The
adults of the family, if so inclined, can profit in health at least—and
sometimes in economy—by cultivating a garden outside of working
hours. The children gain the advantage and education that come
from daily contact with the things of nature, especially through the
garden. It is probable, therefore, that, at least for families with chil-
dren, the suburban home is preferable to the tenement.

It is, however, impracticable to house the population of large cities
in cottage homes unless such homes can be constructed to rent for a
price (including both the cost of land and of the daily transit to and
from work) no higher than the same family would pay for an equal
number of rooms within the city tenement. Furthermore, families
working within the city will not live in the suburbs if a too large pro-
portion of their working day is consumed in transit to and from such
residence. If any working member of such family is employed for
10 or 12 hours a day in the heart of the city, the residence should not
ordinarily be placed more than one-half hour’s ride from the place
of business. To secure cottage homes, therefore, for the working
classes of our cities, it is essential to have rapid and cheap transit,
serving satisfactorily all of the possible outlying residential section.
It is equally necessary to have an abundance of cheap land and to
make possible the cheap construction of cottage homes.

One means of encouraging cottage construction is to discourage
tenement building. If, for example, we require tenement houses
748 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

over four stories high to be constructed fireproof throughout, as do
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Scranton, St. Paul, and St. Louis—and
require the three or four story tenements to have brick exterior,
stairs, halls, and fire towers—investors in house property will cort-
struct houses less than three stories in height because they will be
comparatively cheaper in cost per unit of construction. Massa-
chusetts towns, which have adopted the permissive tenement-house
act for towns—Belmont, Arlington, Winthrop, ete.—have elimi-
nated the three-story tenement house for the future by requiring that
every tenement house three stories in height shall be fireproof
throughout. The cities above mentioned are all of them peculiarly
free from high tenement houses.

THE ZONE SYSTEM.

The measures above indicated would tend to eliminate from your
city all new construction of high tenement houses except for apart-
ment houses of the well-to-do classes. They would not, however, ab-
solutely prevent any man from constructing such apartment houses
on any lot in the city or suburb which he might chance to own. It
would still be possible for a man to place a high apartment house in
the midst of a block of private residences, shutting out light from his
neighbors’ homes, marring the beauty of their outlook with the ugly
back of his building, and bringing into that street a class of popula-
tion of different tastes and perhaps of a type from which neighbor-
ing parents would wish to protect their children. The city of Cal-
gary, in Alberta, attempts to meet this difficulty by providing in its
local building code that no owner shall build an apartment house
within any city block unless two-thirds of the other owners in the
block give their assent. This provision is, however, inequitable, in
that it does not give all the persons who are interested in the erection
of such apartment house an opportunity to vote. The owner of the
property across the street would be equally affected by the building
of such apartment house; so, also, in less degree, would the passerby
whose outlook may be marred by its erection.

To protect a community from the intrusion of undesirable building
types, it might be desirable here, as in German cities, to establish a
zone system of building. The essential feature of the zone system is
that a city is divided into districts in which building types are per-
manently fixed. In the heart of the city the highest buildings may be
erected (six stories, in the case of Vienna) ; in the next district, near
the center of the city, buildings may be erected one story less high
and perhaps covering a smaller proportion of their lot. In the third
district will be found again a reduced height and a reduced per-
centage of lot area to be covered. In outlying districts, contiguous

.
HOUSING REFORM—FORD. 749

building, tenement construction, or building to the lot line is not per-
mitted, and frequently only 40 per cent of a lot may be covered.

The constitutionality of the zone system has been tested in Boston,
which has two zones, one for building 125 feet high maximum, and
the other with a maximum of 80 feet. More elaborate zoning is now
in practice in Minneapolis.

A zone system would inevitably involve the districting of factories
if the welfare of the community is to be conserved. Where factories
and tenements are mingled, the gases may render living conditions
unhealthful or unpleasant. German cities very generally restrict
their factories to quarters of the city in which available transporta-
tion facilities can be rendered of the best, and to quarters from which
the prevailing winds will carry the smoke, dust, gases, and noise
away from the city.

DECENTRALIZATION OF INDUSTRY.

One other adjustment of the factory and cottage home is ordi-
narily termed industrial decentralization. In England especially
housing reformers have agitated for the removal of factories from
cities into the open country where land is cheap and abundant, where
transportation facilities can very frequently be rendered of the best,
and where each worker can live in a cottage home. Such industrial
communities may be established cooperatively, as in the case of the
British “ Garden City,” or may be established by the owners of fac-
tories, as is the current American practice, the houses in this case be-
ing erected by the manufacturer either to rent or to sell on easy terms
to his employees.

THREE METHODS OF REDUCING THE COST OF SUBURBAN LAND.

Cottage construction for workingmen is impossible at present wage
rates unless land can be procured which is both accessible to work
and cheap. Much of the suburban land in American cities is being
held vacant to-day by speculators in the hope of reaping a large in-
crease in land values. Accessible land is not easy to procure in small
parcels. There are several ways, however, in which it may be ren-
dered more available. German cities, for example, quite generally
buy up their suburbs and then sell the land in small plots under heavy
restrictions as to its future use or transfer, or else lease this land to
home builders on long-term leases. By this means suburban land
prices can be kept low, the city receiving the unearned increment of
its land in the form of enjoyment by working people of its proper
usage for homes, instead of receiving it in the form of taxes or rents.
The city of Ulm, Germany, between the years 1891 and 1909, thus
purchased 1,208 acres of land for $1,390,000, and sold 404 acres under
750 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

restrictions for $1,633,000, thus reaping from its transaction 804
acres of land, $242,000 in money, and the lowest tax rate in Wur-
temburg.

Land prices may be similarly restrained or communities can demo-
cratically share the advantages accruing from the unearned incre-
ment of land by means of cooperative development. The Copartner-
ship Tenants Societies formed by artisans, mechanics, and clerks in
some 20 British cities, have thus bought patches of suburban land,
from 10 to 300 acres in size, at reduced cost per unit; have developed
such land cooperatively at reduced cost per unit for architect’s sery-
ices, laying of streets, plumbing, sewerage, etc.; have built their
houses cooperatively, purchasing materials for 50 or more houses
at once at considerably reduced costs. Each tenant pays rent for his
cottage home to the Copartnership Tenants Society to which he and
his neighbors belong, and receives his profits (aside from 5 per cent
interest earned by his share capital) in the form of dividends on
rents, paid not in cash but shares of stock in the society. The un-
earned increment of the land is the common property of the coop-
erating members and enhances their profits. The Harborne Copart-
nership Society in its garden suburb on the outskirts of Birmingham,
England, was formed by workingmen who to-day pay rents for these
cottage homes at rates no higher than they paid previously for in-
sanitary slum tenements in the city. Yet this society is already able
to pay 8 per cent dividends on rents in addition to the regular 5 per
cent interest on invested capital. The British workingmen have,
however, had more experience in cooperative methods than have the
American workingmen.

This method of cheapening and facilitating suburban development
is not applicable here without an intermediate period of careful
study of cooperative methods by the workingmen who plan the
association, and preferably should not be tried until they have had
some experience in some form of cooperative practice. Garden sub-
urbs of this character in England and in Germany have been fa-
cilitated by cheap loans of capital from philanthropists and from
the governments of these countries. If capital might be obtained
from some source at 4 per cent interest for building loans, and if the
experiment had the backing of influential citizens, 1t would be much
easier to make it a success.

A third means of reducing the cost of land per cottage would be by
use of the land tax already described. If the tax were taken off
improvements and placed exclusively upon the land, the vacant land
now held in the suburbs by speculators would be placed upon the
market or built upon. It is probable that land under such condi-
tions would be more readily available to modest purchasers in the
suburbs, and in so far would make suburban housing possible.
HOUSING REFORM—FORD, 751
RESIDENTIAL STREETS.

Residential streets are often rendered costly through unnecessary
width and through the expensive provision of curbs and sidewalks.
Some residence streets must be used for a fairly large local traffic.
Others are by their very nature and direction precluded from such
use. A careful study of this problem will indicate that in certain
suburban residential quarters the width of streets might easily be re-
duced to the provision of a 16 to 22 foot roadway flanked by grass
strips. By establishing a building line on each side of such roadway
at some distance from the street, it would be possible for the city to
widen its streets without serious expense if that should ever prove
necessary. The provision of sidewalks on both sides of the street is
also not invariably necessary in suburban quarters where a street is
purely local. If the street is developed only to such degree as to ren-
der it adequate for its local service, the cost of street construction will
constitute a much less burden upon home owners.

SIZE AND SHAPE OF LOTS.

There are several serious disadvantages in having lots of uniform
shape. In the first place a popular prejudice is created for the
prevailing deep and narrow lot which is not easily dislodged, and
the poor man who wishes to build a cottage home is socially con-
strained to purchase a lot 100 feet deep whether he needs so much
land or not. It is, perhaps, the safest thing for a city to have stand-
ard lots, at least in the heart of the city, until the science of lot dis-
tribution and usage is developed. It is not easy to make a definitive
prescription for the employment of lots of any other specific size
which would be more satisfactory for all purposes. But the lack of
elasticity in present lot shapes and sizes is fraught with serious
consequences. The 25 by 100 foot lot can not be used economically
for workingmen’s cottages. It is wasteful of land at the rear, for
the American workingman will not ordinarily start a garden as will
the English or Italian. It is parsimonious of land at the sides of
houses, especially if built in the two-flat style. It becomes impos-
sible to construct two-flat houses on lots of this shape which will not
be too near to the lot line and thus to neighboring houses.

If the arterial streets of a city are broad and sufficiently straight,
and there are occasional broad cross streets within the residential
zones, It should be possible to plan much of the remaining residential
land with narrow dirt streets for local service purely, often, perhaps,
with one sidewalk or none, grass strips and trees at the sides, and a
building line for houses on abutting lots. These streets might wind,
which would enhance their beauty; and if on a hillside, ought to
752 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

wind in some accordance with the contour lines of the hill. In such
quarters, lots of varying shapes and sizes would be possible.

Near factory quarters, where land values are not yet prohibitive,
the Philadelphia type of housing might be promoted by the estab-
lishment of lots of 14 or 15 feet in width and perhaps 40 feet deep,
to be built up with 4-room or 6-room cottages, two stories in
height, with brick dividing walls on the lot line. Houses of this
type could be constructed so as to be available even for the families
of day laborers, as the experience of Philadelphia has proved. Pref-
erably if this type of house is to be used, builders should be provided
by some competent authority with standard plans showing types of
construction that are cheapest in design and at the same time health-
ful and varied in exterior. Multiple cottages of this type can be
constructed to rent or to sell. Streets may be narrow without dark-
ening rooms, but provision should be made for grass strips and trees
on all streets of this character, relieving their monotony of type and
improving the air for the semicrowded occupants.

In the outlying portions of the city’s contiguous suburbs, both
straight and winding streets may be provided, and in specific quar-
ters lots narrow or wide, shallow or deep, may be accepted according
to the prospective use of the quarter. In general, however, the
narrow lot should be avoided in such suburbs, and the permission to
plat deep lots might be granted, or parks or allotment gardens
planned in the center of certain blocks if the city guarded the right
to push a minor street through the middle of the block in the future.
Both one and two family houses could be constructed more economi-
cally and to greater social advantage on lots from 30 to 35 feet in
width and 60 to 70 feet in depth than they can now on the 25 by 100
feet lot. On the wider lot, as specified, houses can be constructed
with square-floor plan, two rooms abreast and two or three rooms
deep, reducing somewhat the cost of construction, the cost of heating,
and the cost of furnishing such homes. Furthermore, the lot 35 by
60 feet in dimensions uses 400 square feet less of land than the lot of
25 by 100 feet. On it a house may be built with two rooms of ordi-
nary size abreast and may yet leave 5 feet on the side to each lot line.
The house may be built two rooms deep and leave a 10-foot lawn
in front (insured by municipal provision for a building line) and a
25-foot yard in the rear, which may be encroached upon by a third
room in the depth of the house or by a piazza, or may be used as a
garden. The only serious disadvantage of this lot plan lies in that
‘ it provides for an increased-street frontage, and thereby a larger cost
to the owner for road construction, etc. But if street costs in resi-
dence sections are reduced by the means above specified, there will
unquestionably be a net gain to society from the use of this method
of platting.
HOUSING REFORM—FORD. 753

Irregular lots on winding streets can be rendered economical and
exceedingly beautiful if developed cooperatively in the manner
already described. The British copartnership garden suburbs are so
planned and yet are able to house workingmen at current rates.

PUBLIC SUPERVISION OF SUBURBAN DEVELOPMENT.

If your city is to determine its housing development, it is essential
that there be a municipal commission empowered to establish (sub-
ject to district referendum) the building zones of the city, to pass
upon, and, if necessary, reject plans of land companies for estate
development, to determine also the direction, width, paving, and
planting of new streets, with power to inaugurate schemes and
enforce its decisions in so far as they affect vitally the welfare of the
community. There should be a permanent city plan commission
for the metropolitan district, even if the suburbs of the city are not
all (as they should be) incorporated within the political city. There
is much European precedent for the establishment of such commis-
sions with power. German cities are so provided. English cities,
under the town-planning act of 1909, may secure power to regulate
the methods and extent of development of land likely to be used for
building purposes within, or in the neighborhood of, their area.
They also have power to limit the number of buildings which may
be erected per acre and the height and character of those buildings.

In America city-planning powers of this type are already being
given by provincial governments of the cities of Canada. In Ontario,
for example, local town-planning commissions have power to pass
on all lot distribution of towns of 50,000 inhabitants or more, and
cities may plan for the area within 5 miles of their limits. No
lots may be sold until such plans are approved. The value of this
power is reduced in so far as the promotion of workingmen’s sub-
urban homes is concerned by the requirement that all streets shall
be at least 60 feet wide. The provinces of western Canada have given
quite similar power to their cities. In the States, somewhat similar
powers have already been granted to cities in Pennsylvania and Wis-
consin. And that power under the Wisconsin law regarding the
platting of land near cities, adopted in 1909, extends to all land
within 14 miles of the limits of such cities.

THE COST OF COTTAGE CONSTRUCTION.

Suburban development will be encouraged not only by keeping
low the price of land and restricting its use but also by any reduction
that can be made in the cost of constructing cottage homes for work-
ing men. In general it is possible to construct tenement houses which

44863°—sm 19183——48
754 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

shall be cheaper per unit of accommodation than cottage homes.
This will probably not be true where tenement houses are required to
be fireproof. It is, however, advisable for citizens who are aware of
the urgency of their local housing problems to experiment in the con-
struction of detached and multiple cottages. The best ability of
architects in America has been turned to monumental work, but the
important social problem of designing cheap cottages has been almost
overlooked by them. In England the attention of the best architects
has been turned to this problem by the holding of competitions with
prizes for the best cottage constructed for a specified sum (£175
in the case of the first cheap cottages exhibition, Garden City, 1905).
The purchase of the houses constructed may be guaranteed by the
promoting body.

It would be desirable to interest the best-trained architects of
America in this problem, for by competition among them new ar-
rangements of houses and new materials for construction will be
brought to public attention. Such a competition might be held by a
municipality (as, for example, one was held at Sheffield, England, in
1907), but such competition could be held with equal satisfaction by
some private organization. The cost of cottage construction may be
reduced also by large-scale building, buying and developing several
acres of land ata time. This may be done by philanthropic associa-
tions, by employers of labor, by commercial building companies, or
by cooperative associations of tenants. It is in experiments of the
type above indicated that private organizations can do their best
work in meeting the problem of promoting suburban housing.
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ROLE OF FASHION.

By PIERRE CLERGET,
Director of the High School of Commerce, Lyon, France.

Fashion is a social custom, transmitted by imitation or by tradition.
It is a form of luxury, luxury in ornamentation. Voltaire says:
There is a fickle, teasing goddess
Fantastic in her tastes, playful in adornment,

Who at every season seems to flee, return, and rise again.
Proteus was her father, her name is Fashion.

Many writers have sounded the caprices of fashion, its frequent
coming, its suddennness. It is changeable,’ unreliable, frivolous; the
most careful calculations are often brushed aside for the most trifling
causes. Another characteristic is its universal following. Domineer-
ing, 1t reigns supreme over all classes of society. While this “ de-
mocracy of fashion” is quite recent, yet the taste for finery is as old
as the world.

An English archeologist, Mr. Evans, found in the Mycenaean
palace of Knossos in Crete some frescoes painted 1,400 years
before our era, showing ladies of the court clothed in resplend-
ent garments, with enormous leg-of-mutton sleeves held to the neck
by a narrow ribbon; their flounced skirts, ornamented with em-
broidered bands, are expanded behind by enormous bustles.

Writings and monuments tell us that under the Empire changes
of fashion and peculiarity in costumes were customary at Rome.
During the Middle Ages, an author of the twelfth century wrote:
“France, whose humor varies continuously, ought to have some
garments which would proclaim her instability.” In the fifteenth
century, Robert Gaguin reproached Parisians “for always being
eager for novelties and unable to retain the same style of clothing
for 10 successive years.”

17Translated by permission from the Revue Economique Internationale, Brussels, vol. 2,
No. 1, Apr. 15-20, 1913.

2“*One fashion has hardly brushed aside another when it is abolished by a new one
and this in turn gives way to one which follows, but this one will not be the last.”
La Brugeére. ‘ The new style of dressing makes the older fashion out of date, so forcefully
and with such general agreement that it might be called a kind of mania which turns the
senses round.’’—Montaigne.

* Cited by L. Bourdeau, Histoire de l’habillement et de la parure. 8° F. Alcan, 1904,
p. 197.

756
756 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Until the thirteenth century, women’s costumes were chiefly tunics
or robes, marked by plain and natural simplicity. It was only to-
ward the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, under Francis I and
Henry II, that dresses were designed following the lines of the body.
Women then appeared with fitted doublets, skirts, and wraps with
collars. The sleeves were leg-of-mutton and balloon shaped, filled
with plaits, or very tight, and these shapes often have been imitated
in our day. This was the starting point of fashion which will sleep
only for perpetual reawakening, making evolutions in irregular
cycles at the will of its creators. Under Henry III we find the
pointed waist, held in place by a stiff corset, the puffed sleeves; the
dress already had the hoop-petticoat which fashion revived again
in 18380.

The reign of Henry IV brought us the great bell skirt, built on
springs, which we find later with the crinoline. This tendency
toward fullness in the skirt kept increasing until 1605, bringing
some dresses to enormous proportions, with ruffles adding .to their
size. Then, toward the end of the seventeenth century the fullness
diminished, giving way to padded dresses, concealed under mantle
wraps, and in 1880 they reappeared again. Reduction in the size of
the skirt continued until about 1750 when fullness again came into
fashion, and by 1785 the skirts were ridiculously full, expanded with
great hoops. There was another reaction and the hoop-skirt gave
way first to the bustle, then in 1793 came the one-piece dress, with
a running string and without ornamentation. Greek robes were seen
ata fétes and on the stage. The directoire dress, very close-fitting,
exaggerated the plaited style and resembled the trousers skirt of
recent date. The empire costume, with the waist high under the
bosom, was only another transformation of the directoire dress,
showing at that time a tendency to fullness in the form.

After 1805 the cycles began to shorten, the wheel turned faster, and
without stopping, until we find a general style used by all classes of
society. Skirts were worn very full again toward 1810 and, passing
through all sorts of gradations, with a partial return of fullness in
the back, ended in 1860 to 1865 in the culminating point of the crino-
line. This marks the departure from Orientalism and brings us to-
ward the epoch when very simple and straight robes were worn until
we reach the other extreme, the clinging gown, not forgetting the
harem skirt, an exaggerated revised edition of the eccentricities of
the period from 1805 to 1815. We must pause to resume slowly but
surely the march toward the puffed or padded styles.

How is fashion created? Since the days of Worth in 1846, it has
been the well-known modiste who has been the creating artist. His

1 Bulletin des Soies et des Soieries, Aug. 18, 1911.
ECONOMIC ROLE OF FASHION—CLERGET. 757

popularity is such that it has become a regular habit to visit his
establishment, and as Pierre Mille? says, “he knows how to make
the worldly minded dress and how to prattle,” as shown by Gervex’s
painting “chez Paquin 4 cing heures.” The modiste seeks out the
designs, fits the forms, harmonizes the lines and styles. Each estab-
lishment decides upon a model and then selection is made from public
opinion expressed at the great gatherings at Auteuil and Longchamp.
Each modiste has a representative there and in broad daylight they
make comparisons, listen to criticisms, make after-touches, and the
“complete results of the races” told in the Paris evening papers
omit the most striking act of the day: Fashion was born and a
humble seamstress may have had the chance to invent it.

The fashion created, there is haste to make it known, to launch it.
Under the monarchical régimes and under the first and second em-
pires, the court fulfilled that duty and gave fashion some distinction.
It is only since the first Republic, or particularly since the third Re-
public, that the prevailing style has been anything more than the
reflection of the will of the sovereign whose ideas and customs had
the force of law. Under the first empire, Josephine abhored a stiff
style of garment; she preferred the low-neck gown with high waist
and flexible skirt; her hair arranged with the bandeau. Roman art
then ruled, brought about by Josephine. Empress Eugénie had like
influence under the second empire, and to her we owe the taste for
a comfortable style, and stuffed, silk-covered furniture.®

To-day the style is made public by mannequins at the race course,
on the street, at the theater, by actors on the stage, and by such
social functions as a wedding or a ball. The fashion at the theater
seems to be playing an increasing role. Fashionable modistes have
recently announced their intention of having their mannequins re-
placed by actresses, who on the stage, by their grace, their elegance,
their beauty, their prestige, would tend to a more ready acceptance
of fashion’s extravagant innovations. Madame Jane Hading, in the
play of L’Attentat, introduced the dress known as the “aile de
cabeau” or winged pannier. And Madame Martha Brandés created
the style of sleeves since known by her name. When La Walkyrie
was first presented at the opera, white wings like those attached to
Brunehilde’s helmet were worn on hats, and the armor of the warlike
maiden gave to dressmakers the idea of spangled robes, much resem-
bling the breastplate. The use of pheasant plumage became more

1 Pierre Mille: Une des industries intellectuelles de Paris, la grand couture. Revue
économique internationale, May, 1912.

2 Bulletin des Soies et des Soieries, Noy. 10, 1900.

3B. Mazille: Comment se crée la mode dans l'industrie de la soierie. Bulletin
trimestriel de l’Association des auciens éléves de l’Ecole supérieure de Commerce de
Lyon, March, 1908.
758 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

general after the presentation of Chanteclair. We already had
the “ Dame Blanche” fichus, and the Lutheran bonnet was popular
after Les Huguenots was played.

Any striking idea may inspire a fashion. Under Louis-Philippe
“all the fashionable young men of the capital wanted their trousers
plaited at the hips like those of the African chasseurs; they had their
turbans and their Arab checias (skull caps) at their homes.” ?
Trocadero ribbons became the rage as a souvenir of the voyage of the ©
Duke of Angouléme to Spain, and the Russo-Japanese War gave us
the kimono. It is to the passion for sports that we owe the English
styles, the success of the tailor-made costume, the fashion for furs and
leather garments, and also that “war hat” attempted by some
Americans.

Literature also has been a great inspiration, as shown by the curious
and interesting book of Louis Maigron on “ Romantisme et la Mode.”
The essential characteristic of the romantist revolution was the re-
turn to national tradition, the style of the Middle Ages, which forced
itself quickly and in every direction, taking the place of the empire
style. According to Mons. Maigron, “romanticism creeps from
books into the daily life through social diversions.” The masquerade
thus makes some pretensions, often justified, of reconstructing
history ; old engravings are appealed to for aid in costuming.

The works of Victor Hugo, especially Hernani, have had an in-
fluence on fashion as great as pre-Raphaelism has to-day on gowns
and hairdressing. The use of white muslins was the inspiration of
Taglioni, as were the “ waves of the Danube” taffetas. The “Atala”
collars and the “ Marie Stuart” hats were successively worn. The
“)battlement ” hat was designed in part from a headdress looked
upon as that of Jeanne d’Arc, and likewise the “ leg-of-mutton ”
sleeve recalls the costume of the sixteenth century.

There is a complete revolution in the work of gold- and silver-
smiths. Jewelry is made in the shape of pointed arches with knights
in steel armor, pages with plumed toques, helmets, grey hounds,
coats of arms, escutcheons. A complete feudal arsenal is designed
in chased work and enamels. In architecture the Gothic comes into
full vogue, and it is constantly the romance styles which are most
fashionable.

The red waistcoat of Theophile Gautier had its imitators; the
waistcoat was at one time the chief thought of young Frenchmen.
It is all a program that one cultivates and lives up to. Men’s fash-
ions extend to lace facings, braids, furs, Merovingian style of hair,
and whiskers of an Assyrian king; the cravat is of a gloomy black.?

1Louis Maigron: Le Romantisme et la mode. Champion, 1911. Cf. also O. Uzanne:
Un siécle de modes féminines, et la francaise du siécle. H. Bouchot: Le luxe frangais:
Challamel: Histoire de la mode.

2L. Maigron, op. cit., passim.
ECONOMIC ROLE OF FASHION—CLERGET. 759

It is this individualism directing the present style, this instability,
the changing at every season, which helps Paris in great measure to
maintain its leading influence on fashion, and this is not of recent
origin. Isabel of Bavaria, in 1891, and Anne of Brittany, in 1496,
sent to the queens of England and Spain dolls dressed in the latest
style. During the war of the succession in Spain the courts of Ver-
sailles and St. James accorded safe conduct to the alabaster doll
which accredited the newest fashions from the other side of the
Channel.’ It is Paris that “decrees the sumptuary law of nations,”
it is she that sells the models, and the best advertisement of a
foreign modiste is to announce her “return from Paris.” One can
understand that this advantage would be envied outside of France,
and they have tried, especially in the United States, to wrest it from
her. These attempts have not ceased. It can readily be seen that
there is involved in this the question of a convenient center which
is not found elsewhere. Copying styles is so very easy that a com-
mittee of defense of Parisian fashions has been formed, which has
brought about a closer connection between the release of models and
the opening of the season, and there has been adopted a stamp of
origin, furnished by the syndics of needlework.

While we have spoken up to this point simply of clothing and
hairdressing, we should not think that this is the limit of fashion’s
domain. It controls conversation, the manner of walking, how to
shake hands. Such a word as “épatant” (stunning) owes to fashion
its recent admittance to the “ Dictionary of the Academy.” The
general use of such a drink as tea, the abandonment of wine in cer-
tain circles, vegetarianism, may all be regarded as fashions, likewise
the adoption of some state of the mind which takes the lead at times,
as sensitiveness or calmness. We have already spoken of architec-
ture and furniture. The passion for traveling and for sports be-
comes widespread; there is less taste for home; there is less desire
for books and interior ornaments.

The influence of fashion is reflected also on the sales of works of
art. The great sales recently held in Paris have shown that there is
a revival in favor of productions of the eighteenth century. In
June, 1912, at a Doucet sale a pastel of “ Quentin de la Tour,” the
portrait of “ Duval de ’Epinoy,” purchased in 1903 for 5,210 franes
($1,042), brought 660,000 francs ($182,000) ; the “ Jardin de la ville
d’Este,” by Fragonard, which sold for 700 frances ($140) in 1880,
brought 21,300 francs ($4,226) ; and the “ Sacrifice au Minotaure,” by
the same painter, for which 5,300 francs ($1,060) was paid in 1880,
was held at 396,000 francs ($79,200). Such fluctuations, of which
we could give many examples, are attributed by M. Paul Leroy-

1V. du Bled. Les évolutions du luxe dans la Société polie. Revue Economique Inter-
nationale, September, 1906.
760 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19138.

Beaulieu to certain notions, among which fashion forms a large part;
the personal satisfaction of connoisseurs, the desire for distinction,
snobbishness, which is a grand master in fashionable life, the spon-
taneous adaptation of art of the eighteenth century to conditions of
contemporary life and the development of large fortunes. In the
statistics of foreign commerce works of art show the greatest change;
in the fiscal year 1911-12 the importation of that class into the
United States rose to more than $36,000,000, an increase of 60 per
cent over 1910-11.

Other industries are also answerable to fashion—the fur trade,
ornamental plumes, jewelry, toys, and artificial flowers. The style
in furs changes every year, from the tippets to the stoles and scarfs
of to-day, and the consumption of skins increases in enormous pro-
portions. In 1848 there were sold in London at public auction
225,000 muskrat skins, at a maximum price of 2 cents each; while in
1910 sales reached 4,000,000 pieces, at a maximum price of 14 cents.
Russian ermine, which in 1888 were valued at 15 copecks (11 cents),
sold in 1910 for 4.30 roubles ($3.25); beautiful sable skins, which
sold for 5 roubles ($3.75) in 1880, brought up to 800 roubles ($600)
in 1910.?

Artificial flowers, originating in China, now used more for hats
and similar purposes than in decorating rooms, give employment in
Paris alone to 10,000 women and 3,000 men, receiving $2,200,000 in
wages, for a production valued at $6,700,000. The manufacture of
toys is regulated almost exclusively by the current demand; it is
enough to say that a toy is fashionable. The industrial arts peculiar
to the colonies seem again to have come into favor after having
been for a long time out of style. And it is to fashion that is due
the present prosperity in false hair and perfumery trades. Each
year 130,000 kilograms of hair are utilized in France, and the im-
portations from China and Japan vary from year to year with
change in style, from 8,000 to 16,000 kilograms. The fashion for
rouge is as old as the desire of women to look beautiful; in very gen-
eral use in Roman times, it revived with the Renaissance, when the
habit spread even to the nuns. Madame de Sévigné wrote: “ Rouge
may be regarded as the law and the prophets; it is all christianity.”
Rice powder and “créme Simon” have no less success to-day than
has the tinting of the hair. Finally, fashion is advantageous in the
constantly increasing love for sports and travel and in the develop-
ment of industries connected with these, particularly the hotel
business.

What are the economical results of fashion? In the industrial
world, first of all, it seems to be a stimulant to production; but it is

1fconomiste francais, June 22, 1912. *
2 Les Echos de l’Exportation, Jan. 1, 1913.
ECONOMIC ROLE OF FASHION—CLERGET. 761

solely in objects to which it offers itself, for the estimates are not
elastic—an increase in one article leads to retrenchment in another,
and the demand is merely changed from one industry to another.
Thus enormous fluctuations are shown each year in the silk indus-
tries, on which the uncertainties of fashion are most particularly
centered.t_ Ribbon is most affected, being much used, both on hats
and clothes. It loses first one fashion, then another, and the evolution
is tending rapidly toward the cheapest grades used so much for orna-
ments and in the thousand little gewgaws of women. The situation
in dress goods is hardly any brighter, following the alnage law,
showing from this that the close-fitting costume continues to be the
style. ‘“ Praised by some, condemned by others,” as the Figaro says,
this fashion will leave in the history of textile industries the souvenir
of an ill-omened influence. The quantity of material needed to make
a costume has been reduced one-half or two-thirds, and, besides, it
does away with undergarments and linings, which for many years
represented a very heavy employment of tissues of plain silk. The
inspector of silks at Lyons showed a registration of 7,590,445 kilo-
grams of silk in 1911, as compared with 8,344,566 in 1910, a difference
of 9.03 per cent. The two inspectors at Milan show still greater
decreases of 15.60 and 9.68 per cent, respectively. An analogous
reduction took place in the woolen goods industries. The French
Chamber of Commerce of Montevideo complained last year of the
effect of measurement inspection on the exportation of woolens, All
the related industries of spinners and weavers were affected in the
same degree, and the dyers, dressers, and stampers.

As Mons, Maurice Deslandres has ingeniously expressed it, fashion
not only displaces the products of one industry by those of another,
but also impedes the latter industry by demanding quick changes in
machinery; retards it until the last moment by some extensive
changes in the work, and the trend is steadily toward low prices and
inferior qualities which are not durable. The result is to raise the
net cost by requiring the manufacturer to make earlier settlement for
apparatus, and necessitating expenses for the setting up of new
models.”

From the commercial standpoint there is a tendency to an increase
in prices because of manufacturers stocks unsold, and the hesitation
of jobbers to lay up large supplies. The relations with customers are
no longer easy, the latter delay their orders, are undecided about their

1It is interesting to compare the fluctuations of the silk industry (as capricious as
those of agricultural productions) with the regularity of other industrial products in-
fluenced only by periodical crises, cf. the chart in our ‘‘ Manuel d’économie commerciale.”
A. Colin, Paris.

*Maurice Deslandres. La mode, ses conséquences économiques et sociales, Bulletin
des ligues sociales d’acheteurs, vol. 1, 1912, pp. 25-37.
762 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

choice, require more urging, and all the orders begin to accumulate
during the last days preceding the opening of the season.

In the agricultural world, fashion has produced transformations
no less serious, some of them unfortunate. The abuse of ornamental
feathers has brought about the destruction of all sorts of birds which
had protected the crops against the ravages of various insects. It is
to the democracy of fashion, as well as to its instability, that we must
attribute the conditions in textile manufactures, where we find a
reduction in the use of flax, an enormous increase in cotton, and the
displacement of vegetable dyes by the more brilliant though less
serviceable dyestuffs derived from coal tar. In the animal world
certain species of fur animals are on the verge of extinction, and
there should be either attempts at domestication, as in the case of
the blue fox and the opossum, or hunting regulations by the creation
of open districts with complete prohibition during a certain period.
In Siberia a recent law suspends the hunting of the sable from the
1st of February, 1918, to the 15th of October, 1916. Likewise an
international agreement between England, Canada, Russia, Japan,
and the United States prohibited May 11, 1911, the hunting of fur
seals in the open sea of the North Pacific.’

The present democracy of fashion is the great social factor to be
emphasized. It has encouraged a great consumption of products;
a depreciation in quality and aanibes) it has induced a very great in-
stability, which disconcerts both producers and buyers; manufac-
turers must make the same classes of products for all markets;
fashion is followed at the same time by all classes of society. The
wheel turns quickly and ceaselessly. On the other hand, these rapid
changes do not take place without a slack season for the workman,
without quick fluctuations in so or without change of speciali-
zation.

“To follow the fashion” becomes not only a pastime, but even a
duty ; “intellects are made frivolous thereby; those who pride them-
selves in appearing elegant are obliged to make the clothing of
themselves a veritable occupation and a study, which assuredly does
not tend to elevate the mind, nor does it render them capable of
great things.” ?

To this moral and social evil an economic difficulty is also added.
Fashion is a waste; “it has the privilege of casting things aside
before they have lost their freshness; it multiplies consumption

and condemns that which is still good, comfortable, and pretty for |

something that is no better. Besides, it robs a State of that which it

1On this subject see our work, L’exploitation rationelle du globe, 1 vol., Doin & Son,
1912.

2B. de Laveleye, quoted by E. Picard. Le luxe et les grandes fortunes. Revue
Economique Internationale, July, 1905.

ECONOMIC ROLE OF FASHION—CLERGET. 763

consumes and that which it does not consume.”' Mons. Pierre Mille
told recently in this Revue of patrons who spent as much as $60,000
each year, others up to $16,000, and a still greater number up to
$5,000. But it is mostly among the middle and laboring classes,
whose means are more limited, that unreasonable expenditure in fol-
lowing fashions is most harmful.

These abuses, this tyranny of uniformity in nearly all outer mani-
festations of life, leads notably to the banishment of provincial cos-
tumes, the representatives of climate, products of local art, so full
of interest from an historical standpoint, picturesque, stable, durable,
which are handed down from generation to generation. Among these
costumes of historic interest are the Caux cap recalling the steeple
headdress of ladies of the fourteenth century; the little Nicaan hat
reproducing the coiffure called “ Thessalanian” by the Greeks, and
the antique Phrygian hat, still worn by the Arlesians. Although
formerly there was variation according to place and uniformity as
to the season, we now tend more and more toward a uniformity as
to place and variation as to season.

The abuses denounced, it would be useless to demand, on the con-
trary, an immutability in complete opposition with the transforma-
tions of all sorts which surround us. Tertullian in his treatise “ De
pallio,” says that nothing is more natural than changing the cos-
tume and that nature sets us an example in assuming varied forms.
Human fancy thus asserts its supremacy over animals, obliged
always to wear the same livery. Austere philosophers have under-
stood perfectly the esthetic and social significance of fashion. Renan,
writing on Marcus Aurelius, admits that “ woman in dressing herself
well fulfills a duty; she practices an art, an exquisite art, in a sense
the most charming of arts. * * * A woman’s toilet, with its re-
finements, is a great art in its way. Ages and countries which know
how to carry it out well are great ages, great countries.”

The appearance of a new style of garment is the visible sign that
a transformation is taking place in the intellect, customs, and busi-
ness of a people. The rise of the Chinese Republic, for instance, led
to doing away with plaited hair and to the adoption of the European
costume. Taine wrote this profound sally: “ My decided opinion is
that the greatest change in history was theadvent of trousers. * * *
It marked the passage of Greek and Roman civilization to the
modern. * * * Nothing is more difficult to alter than a universal
and daily custom. In order to take away man’s clothes and dress
him up again you must demolish and remodel him.”? It is also an
equally philosophical conclusion which Mons. Louis Bourdeau gives
in his interesting “ Histoire de ’habillement et de la parure”: “There

EE VA De ee ee ee
1J. B. Say, quoted by E. Picard, op. cit.
2H, Taine. L’Italie et la vie italienne. Revue des Deux-Mondes, 1865.
764 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913,

where the same style of clothing is used for centuries, as among bar-
barous peoples, one has the right to say that civilization remains sta-
tionary. There, on the other hand, where, as in Europe, garments are
subject to continual modifications, one may see evidence of great com-
fort and rapid progress. * * * Far from being a custom of in-
curable frivolity the changes of fashions mark a high civilization,
subject to change because it is growing and because it has wide lati-
tude to refine its ideal in proportion as its productions are varied.” +
Again, it is necessary that that versatility and refinement be not
turned to extravagance or to impropriety, compromising the reputa-
tion for good taste, elegance, and distinction which the fashions of
Paris enjoy throughout the entire world.

What can we do for or against fashion? Can we direct it or can
we prevent its abuse? Let us find out tirst the power of the law,
religious or civil. Very early popes and councils strove in vain
against the low-neck gown and the dresses “ terminating in the ser-
pent’s tail.” Kings imitated them, Charlemagne setting the example,
but sumptuary decrees have had no more effect than ordinances
against dueling. Mons. Victor du Bled reports that Philippe le Bel
was urged to promulgate some sumptuary laws by his wife, who,
making her formal entrance at Bruges in 1301, saw a crowd of com-
mon people so richly clothed that she cried out with vexation, “I
thought myself the queen, and I see hundreds of them.” Charles IX

proscribed hip pads of more than 5 feet, gold chains, pieces of jewelry _

with or without enamel. In 1567 he regulated the garments of each
class, permitting silk only to princesses and duchesses, forbidding
velvet. But these laws were intended very much more to limit for-
eign importation and to encourage home industry than to regulate
fashion.2, Seventy-two decrees prohibiting the use of India cloth
were rendered from 1700 to 1760 and proved to be powerless against
the rulings of fashion. In 1706 a certain French chamber of com-
merce voted “that officers may have the power to arrest on the streets
persons who are found clothed in this kind of goods, and they
should be condemned to pay a large fine.” In 1912 another chamber
of commerce voted for ministerial intervention against some noted
dressmakers to check the use of clinging dresses, against which the
American clergy and some members of the German medical corps
preached without success.

The intervention of manufacturers injured in their interests by
reduction to the metric system or the abandoning of such and such
an ornament is of no effect. A committee of propaganda, formed at
Saint-Etienne with a view to reviving the fashion for fine qualities

if. Bourdeau, op. cit., p. 195.

2V. du Bled, op. cit. Cf. Dr. A. Velleman, Der Luxus in seinen Beziehungen zur
Sozial-Oekonomie. Halle, 1898.

EO ————————— a —"
ECONOMIC ROLE OF FASHION—CLERGET. 765

of ribbon, has produced no appreciable result. Those only have in-
fluence upon fashion who make it and promote it, those who offer it
and those who can refuse it—the tailor and the customer. The first
is too much concerned in the changes of fashion to expect him to
make any effort to restrain them; the second is quiet, provided that
he be included. If fashion responds to an innate tendency of our
nature, the fondness for change, the actual rapidity of this change
is neither disastrous nor necessary, as the long use of the tailor-made
costume shows. The last word shall be given to the social leagues
of buyers and the leagues of consumers, because of the very interest-
ing initiative taken by the former in favor of handmade lace with a
view to reviving that valuable rural industry. After having brought
about the assembling at Paris of an exposition of women’s work, they
asked their members simply to require mention of the origin “ hand-
made” or “ machine-made ” on the laces put on sale.
THE WORK OF J. H. VAN’T HOFF.

By Prof. G. Brunt,
University of Padua, Italy.

Jacob Henry van’t Hoff was born August 30, 1852, in Rotterdam,
where his father was engaged until 1902 in the practice of medicine.
His ancestors had for centuries held the positions of alderman and
mayor of the little village of Groote Lind near Rotterdam. He de-
scended, therefore, from one of the ancient families of those austere
and sturdy Dutch burgesses which the paintings of so many artists
portray, gathered in civic councils, in learned assemblies, and in com-
panies armed for the defense of the fatherland. The external traits
of this strong race were reproduced in his countenance, and in his
character were found its best moral endowments.

The beginnings of his scholastic career were modest; he attended
the elementary schools and took his secondary school work in his
native town. His parents seem not to have had great confidence
in his future. It is certain, at all events, that at first they did not
approve of his desire to devote himself to the study of pure science—
the subject toward which he felt himself drawn. He was obliged to
commence by registering in the Polytechnic School at Delft, where
at the end of two years he took his final examinations and obtained
the diploma of technologist.

After having thus satisfied his family by securing a professional
diploma, he finally obtained the permission he so much coveted, to
devote himself to scientific study, and registered in 1871 at the Uni-
versity of Leyden, the oldest and most famous center of education
in the Netherlands. There he studied mathematics and physics, but
devoted himself more especially to chemistry. In 1873 he went to
Bonn, where he worked for some months in the laboratary of Kékulé,
and did his first experimental work. [We shall see later what in-
fluence his stay in Bonn was to have on the development of his
ideas.] He remained for a shorter period in Paris, where he fre-
quented Wurtz’s laboratory. [We shall soon see what a deep im-
pression was made upon him rather by the works of Pasteur than by
the ideas of Wurtz. ]

1Translated, by permission of the editors, from Scientia, International Review of
Scientific Synthesis, published by Messrs. Williams & Norgate, London, No. 3, 1911.

767
768 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Returning to his native country, he took up his studies at Leyden
again, and in September, 1874, published a brief paper in Dutch,
in which he stated fully and succinctly all the essential portion of
the stereochemical theory. This publication, the outcome of which
we shall discuss later, preceded by two months a similar publication
by Le Bel. The young man did not venture to present this work as a
thesis for the directorate, but preferred to confine himself to a modest
dissertation on cyanacetic and malonic acids, with which thesis he
obtained his degree of doctor of philosophy December 22, 1874.

The following year we find him in search of an occupation which
should be suitable to his taste and, above all, would permit him to
continue his chosen studies. His first attempt to obtain a modest
position as professor in the technical school at Bréda was unsuccess-
ful. Amusing, and at the same time touching, is the letter which the
director of this school wrote to the minister of public instruction,
describing to him this young man, with distraught air, with the ap-
pearance of an inventor, entirely absorbed in his great visions and
seeing only his atoms and their valences disposed in space; he con-
cluded by saying that, according to his judgment and the unanimous
opinion of the colleagues of the school, van’t Hoff was not the man
for such a position.

In 1876 van’t Hoff was finally made docent of the veterinary school
of Utrecht, where he stayed but a little more than a year, being
called as lecturer to the new university which the city of Amsterdam
had just founded. He was not slow in gaining the esteem and con-
sideration of his superiors, and as early as 1878 was made professor
of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology. He occupied this position
for 17 years; that is to say, until 1895. To this period, which is the
most important of his scientific life, belong his great works on chemi-
cal equilibrium and on the theory of solutions. It was the period of
extraordinary growth of physical chemistry, and van’t Hoff was soon
universally recognized as the most gifted representative and the best
authority of the new school of which Ostwald was the unrivaled
propagandist.

His fame grew rapidly; in 1887 the University of Leipzig invited
him to accept a chair, which he refused; in 1889, when scarcely 37
years of age, he was made honorary member of the German Chemical
Society, an honor aspired to by the greatest scientists. Finally, in
1896, the University of Berlin called him in a specially honorable
way; he was made honorary ordinary professor, without being placed
under the obligation of teaching; the Academy of Sciences made
him an active member, and furnished him the means to establish a
laboratory for research. In this laboratory he devoted himself for
10 years to the investigation of the conditions of formation of the
saline deposits at Stassfurt, the first great attempt to apply the

WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 769

physicochemical theories to the studies of geological phenomena. In
the meantime, in 1901, the Academy of Sciences at Stockholm gave
concrete form to the universal opinion of chemists by conferring on
him the first Nobel prize for chemistry.

In the autumn of 1906 there appeared the first symptoms of the
terrible disease to which he was destined to succomb; after a sojourn
in a sanatorium he apparently recovered * * * but a relapse soon
followed, and on the 1st of March, 1908, his life ended at Steglitz,
Berlin; a life which was too short, if one considers the number of
years passed; simple, if one thinks of the tranquility of exterior
events; great, as few others, if one reflects on the enormous amount
of work which it represents.

After thus broadly tracing the general biography of this great
scientist, we may begin the examination of his life work. And this,
with the exception of his first researches in organic chemistry, a few
works of fragmentary character, occasional publications and resumés,
may be divided into four main divisions: Stereochemistry, the studies
of chemical equilibrium, the theory of dilute solutions, and investi-
gation on the saline deposits of Stassfurt. The second and third of
these chapters overlap in their chronological development and show
numerous logical connections with each other.

The creative period of the stereochemical theory is exceedingly
short, lasting but three years, from 1874 to 1877.

The Dutch paper of 1874 contains in its 14 pages all that is
essential. The author points out first that all substances then
known which, in a liquid or dissolved state, rotate the plane of
polarized light, contain in their formulas at least one “ asymmetric”
carbon atom—that is, a carbon atom combined with four atoms or
groups differing from one another. In seeking the cause of this
relation, he remarks that if one imagines the four valences of the
carbon atom directed toward the vertices of a tetrahedron, of which
the atom itself forms the center, the presence of such an asymmetric
atom is the necessary and sufficient cause of the existence of two
figures in space, of which one is the mirror image of the other;
hence the presence of two isomers, one dextro-rotatory, the other levo-
rotatory, and of one inactive compound resulting from the union of
both, and capable, by separating, of forming them again. The ex-
istence of such isomers and the possibility of separating them had
been demonstrated for the first time by Pasteur, 10 years before, in
the case of tartaric and racemic acids.

In this respect the considerations developed two months later by
Le Bel agree with those of the young Dutchman, except as to form.
But on one point, the latter pushed them further; he foresaw that
in unsaturated compounds in which two carbon atoms united by a
double bond have their two other valences united with two other

44863°—sMm 19183——49
770 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

atoms or groups, differing from each other, two isomers in space may
be formed which not being antipodes are not optically active; isomers
of which we have examples in fumaric and maleic acids.

Tf we wish to seek for the origin of the stereochemical conception
in van’t Hoff’s mind, we must recognize first of all the preponderant
influence which the doctrines of Kékulé had upon him, an influence
which had been increased during his stay in Bonn. With his doc-
trine of the valence and particularly of the tetravalence of carbon,
with the development given to the theory of the structure which
attained its apogee in the statement of the theory of the constitution
of aromatic compounds, Kékulé had made of the University on the
Rhine a center from which radiated new ideas on organic chemistry,
and had grouped around him a crowd of brilliant pupils.

A few years before, there had left Bonn for Italy a young Ger-
man chemist, W. Koerner, who was to publish in the same year his
classical researches on the determination of position of substituting
atoms in aromatic substances—another brilliant extension of Kékulé’s
theory. The coincidence is not without interest. The tetrahedral
model of van’t Hoff was identical with that which Kékulé had
already used in his demonstration. In each case Kékulé had given
the model, but he lacked the confidence to use it in all the legitimate
deductions and representations which one could obtain from it.

Naturally the van’t Hoff innovation was much more radically revo-
lutionary, since for the first time structural formulas were employed
to indicate not only the order in which the atoms are linked among
themselves by their valences, but also, necessarily, their manner of
distribution in space.

Pasteur, after having thoroughly studied the nature of these pe-
culiar isomers, had already pointed out intuitively that the cause of
this asymmetry must lie in a molecular asymmetry, since it does not
disappear, as in quartz, with the disappearance of the crystalline
form, but persists in the liquid or dissolved state. He had foreseen
that the atoms must be disposed in their molecules so as to give two
figures corresponding between themselves like the crystals, or, for
example, like a right and left spiral.

But Pasteur could not reach the complete solution of the problem
for lack of a suitable model. Van’t Hoff was to succeed when he ap-
plied the Kékulian model, and after having grasped at one careful
glance the already abundant data, he saw like a flash that the cause
which he sought was none other than the presence in all the optically
active compounds of an asymmetric carbon atom. If one seeks for
the cause of the differences between the ideas of van’t Hoff and of
Le Bel and of the less complete character of the latter, it may readily
be seen in the fact that the theories of valence and of structure had
not yet found in France the reception and diffusion which they
deserved.
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. Tit

The speculations of van’t Hoff and Le Bel were received at first
in silence and with general indifference. In 1875, when he found
himself again face to face with difficulties in finding a position, the
young Dutchman published a French translation of his first paper,
under the title “ La chimie dans l’espace.”

The new theory had to undergo its first test at a meeting of the
Chemical Society of Paris in 1875, when van’t Hoff had presented an
abridged account of his ideas. Berthelot, still a young man, but
one whose eminent works in the various domains of chemistry had
already made him a great authority, rose for the attack. He de-
clared that, without wishing to refuse a priore the space formulas
proposed by van’t Hoff and Le Bel, which had a certain advantage
over the usual structural formulas in one plane, we could expect no
result from the new theories, until we should learn how to recognize
the vibrations of the atoms in the interior of the molecule. Later
he raised other objections of a more positive character, for example,
the existence of substances optically active without asymmetric car-
bon atoms. Van’t Hoff, Le Bel, and other experimenters replied to
these objections by demonstrating that the supposed contradictions
came simply from errors of observation.

Meanwhile an important step was taken with a view of making
the new theories public. A German scientist, well known by his
works on organic chemistry, Wislicenus, professor at Wurzburg, who
some years before had recognized the insufficiency of structural for-
mulas to explain certain cases of isomerism, became acquainted with
the fundamental note of van’t Hoff. Being struck by it and com-
prehending its great importance, he had his assistant, Hermann,
make a German translation of it. This, supplied with a preface by
himself, was published in 1877, under the title “ Die Lagerung der
Atome in Raume.” This publication, which gave the widest notoriety
to the theories of van’t Hoff, had as an immediate effect the arousing
of new and violent controversy. Hermann Kolbe, already an old man
and famous, one of the scientists who had contributed most to the
experimental development of organic chemistry and one of the most
influential chemists of his time, well known as a bitter critic and
violent polemist, who saw in the structural theory an unjustified
and dangerous misuse of hypotheses, published a paper entitled
“Zeichen der Zeit,’ from which it is interesting to quote a few
passages:

I have already shown that the cause of the present decadence of chemical
research in Germany lies in the lack of a solid general culture. I see one
consequence of it in the reappearance of the weed of a natural philosophy,
clever and brilliant in appearance, but in reality trivial and without meaning.
It was driven out 50 years ago by exact research, but it has just been dis-
covered again by a pseudoscientist, and like a courtesan, disguised 4 la mode and
painted fresh, tries to introduce itself underhandedly into good society, to
which it does not belong.
T72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

If this seems exaggerated one should read the writings of a Mr. van't
Hoff, full of bad tricks of the imagination, which I should prefer to ignore
if a distinguished chemist had not given him his patronage. This Dr. van’t
Hoff, employed in a veterinary school at Utrecht, takes no pleasure, it appears,
in exact chemical research. He has found it more comfortable to mount a
veterinary Pegasus and to announce how, in his mad flight through a chemical
Parnassus, the atoms have appeared to him to be scattered in space.

Such a method of treating scientific questions which is not too far removed
from a belief in sorcery and spirits is considered legitimate by a chemist like
Wislicenus, whom we have always known as a serious scientist. By this act
he excludes himself from the ranks of exact scientists and enters the category
of those natural philosophers of evil fame whom only a subtle medium sep-
arates henceforth from the spiritists.

To this phillipic our scientist made a most sober and serious re-
sponse. He prefaced to an article published in 1877 a few dignified
but not unforceful words, and in October, 1878, as professor at Ams-
terdam, he opened his course by reading from the text, Kolbe’s at-
tack, taking occasion not to open a direct dispute but to defend se-
renely the importance and legitimacy of the intervention of creative
imagination in the exact sciences.

But the address of Kolbe was no more efficacious than the objec-
tions of Berthelot in barring the way of stereochemistry in its march
toward success. Hans Landolt, the best authority in the domain of
chemical optics and polarimetry, realized that the new views were in
accord with the facts of experience; and Piutti was one of the first,
with his researches into the stereo-isomeric asparagines, to bring new
facts to the aid of the new theory. More important still were in-
vestigations carried on in Germany after 1885. Besides those of
Wislicenus on the stereo-isomerism of unsaturated compounds, we
must remember those of A. von Baeyer on the stereo-isomerism of the
hydroaromatic compounds and on the stereochemistry of cyclic com-
pounds in general.

But the new doctrine obtained its greatest triumph when Emil
Fischer, using it as a foundation, was able to solve for the first time
the great problem of the composition of sugars. This impenetrable
forest, which had defied until then the efforts of chemists, became
suddenly light when an experimenter of such exceptional value held
in his hand the thread of Ariadne, which alone could guide him to-
ward the goal.

The succeeding history is only a succession of new conquests. Y.
Meyer and Hantzsch and Werner have shown that in the unsaturated
nitrogen compounds like oximes, there could occur isomers of the cis
and trans types; it is thus that the stereochemistry of nitrogen came
into existence. Still more recent researches, among which we must
mention first those of Pope, have demonstrated that when an atom
of any tetravalent element whatever becomes asymmetric, this causes
the appearance of optical activity and the existence of two stereo-
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. V3

isomers. We have thus optically active compounds containing an
asymmetric atom of sulphur, selenium, silicon, tin, and lead. Even
pentavalent atoms like those of nitrogen and phosphorus may give
rise to the formation of stereo-isomers, as Le Bel was the first to
show.

To-day, after a lapse of 37 years, we can see that few theories have
been able to achieve such triumphs. There does not exist to-day a
single well-established fact which had not been anticipated, at least
in germ, in the memoir of 1874. It would not be out of place to add
here a few words with the purpose of examining more closely the
intrinsic merit and amount of originality in the work of van’t Hoff
and Le Bel, for it is not unusual to read or to hear rather unsatis-
factory statements relative to them. It is said sometimes that the
merit of the Dutch scientist consisted in having imagined and intro-
duced the tetrahedral model or in having first had the conception
of the spacial distribution of atoms in the molecule. Nothing is more
erroneous, or at least more superficial, for in this connection van’t
Hoff and Le Bel had several predecessors. The tetrahedal model
was a necessary consequence of the conception of Kékulé, who had
used it himself in its present form without, it is true, giving it the
wide application which we give it to-day. And, as we have already
said, Wislicenus had affirmed in a general way the necessity of having
recourse to spacial configurations to explain certain isomerides.
Earlier still, in 1869, Paterno had proposed to use for this purpose
precisely the tetrahedal arrangement. It is not, then, in this that
the merit of van’t Hoff lies, but rather in the fact that he was the
first to conceive the brilliant idea of the significance of the asym-
metric carbon atom, and, also, after attentive and rigorous examina-
tion of all the facts already known, gave to the theory its definite
form, so that one may say that it sprang, like the classic Minerva,
already armed from the brain of Jupiter.

But from 1877 on van’t Hoff no longer took a direct and creative
part in the further development of the doctrine which he estab-
lished. He nevertheless followed it always with an attentive eye
and marked its progress in the successive editions of his books,
among which we shall mention particularly “ Dix années dans Vhis-
toire d’une théorie,” which offers a fine example of how to triumph
with modesty.

But it is time to return to the year 1877; that is, to the moment
when our young hero took up his work at the University of Amster-
dam. He had made his début three years before. He was only 25
years of age and had already established a theory which was suflicient
to pass his name on to history. All the immense field of chemistry
stretched before him; his eye could not fail to discern in it new paths
which were to lead him to still more brilliant triumphs.
774 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

The scientific production of van’t Hoff underwent at this time
a period of arrest, due, perhaps, to the loss of time that the necessity
of adapting himself to new conditions of life and work imposed on
him, but certainly for the greater part to the intellectual need of
concentrating and orienting himself, before starting out again.
However that may be, it is certain that during a period of seven
years, from 1878 to 1884, he published no original papers worthy of
engaging our attention. He did publish, however, a very interest-
ing book, “Ansichten tiber die organische Chemie,” now out of print
and almost completely unknown, but which has considerable im-
portance for one who wishes to follow the evolution of his scientific
thought. He described this evolution himself in an address given
in Berlin in 1892, which we shall have occasion to mention again
more than once.

He pointed out in this the fact that even his first works on the
asymmetric carbon atom must be considered, from one standpoint at
least, as an attempt to contribute to the solution of a problem which
had seemed to him from the first and which is in reality the funda-
mental problem of general chemistry—to discover the relations be-
tween the chemical constitution of substances and their physical
properties and general behavior.

This problem he set himself to treating in a more general and
systematic way in the book we have just mentioned, and then there
appeared to him suddenly the great gap which made impossible the
rational execution of his vast project; that is, the gap resulting from
the almost exclusively qualitative character of the data of organic
chemistry, as far as concerns the mechanism of the reactions * * *.

One single branch was developed quantitatively, that of thermo-
chemistry; but at bottom the mass of data collected had not led to
the great results that had been hoped, and there had been manifested
in this field tendencies which were theoretically not rigorous. Besides
this there were but few serial relations regarding particular prop-
erties, one of the most abundant sources of illusive theories and con-
sequent deceptions; and, a much more promising nucleus, some spo-
radic instances of quantitative investigations as to the velocity of re-
actions and chemical equilibriums.

Such appeared to van’t Hoff the most immediate and the most
important goal—to fill up the great gap and try to fuse into one body
of knowledge the few and scattered ideas which were possessed up to
that time. It was with this intention that he quickly set himself
to work, theoretically as well as experimentally. The first results
of his researches were not put forth in simple detached monographs,
but collected in a harmonious and comprehensive manner in the form
of a book entitled “ Etudes de dynamique chimique,” which saw the

WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. V75

light in 1884. This book was filled with the spirit which henceforth
was to inspire all the productions of van’t Hoff.

The author attempted in it to apply, so far as possible, mathe-
matical methods, and, above all, the principles of thermodynamics,
to the study of chemical phenomena. The idea in itself was not new;
20 years before that Clausius had pointed out the possible application
of these principles, especially of the second, but he had given no
concrete examples of it. It is true there was also in existence the
work of Willard Gibbs, but it was still lying like a. colossal block of
granite buried in the proceedings of an obscure American academy,
ignored by scientists, certainly by all chemists. The only attempts
of any importance at its application were those of Horstmann and
Peslin and Moutier to the phenomena of dissociation.

The work of van’t Hoff was much more considerable and sys-
tematic, and since the author, like a true chemist, carries abreast
theoretical study and experimental verification, this work exercised
a preponderant influence by making known to chemists the methods
and principles of this new branch of science.

He studied principally the velocity of reactions, selecting the most
varied types of changes, reducing to order their laws, and seeking to
discover in what measure the methods of chemical kinetics are ap-
plicable to the determination of the order of the reactions. He
invented the most ingenious methods to discover general laws when
the latter are concealed by disturbing secondary reactions, which he
eliminated in both experiment and calculation. He finally studied
the variations which the velocity of reaction undergoes under the
influence of the temperature.

From there he passes to the consideration of chemical equilibrium,
viewed as the result of two inverse processes, and concerns himself
first of all with homogeneous equilibriums in gases or solutions. He
gives special attention to heterogeneous equilibriums and more espe-
cially to those which he calls condensed systems—that is, systems in
which no bodies of variable composition, such as gases or solutions,
intervene. He recognizes that in these cases, instead of having a
continual displacement of the equilibrium, one has a transition tem-
perature such that one of the systems is stable above this point, the
other below. The transition temperature had been known for a long
time in the polymorphic modifications of one and the same substance,
as in those of rhombic and monoclinic sulphur; but the author
generalizes this concept, and shows that one can extend it to the
reciprocal transformation of chemical isomers, to the dehydration of
hydrated salts, to the formation of decomposition of double salts, ete.

Discussing, then, the displacement of equilibrium which is pro-
duced by variations of temperature, he announces for the first time

/
776 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

the before-mentioned principle of mobile equilibrium, which he for-
mulates thus: “All equilibrium between two different states of matter
is displaced in consequence of the lowering of temperature toward
the system the formation of which develops heat.” It is known
that this principle a little later was generalized by Le Chatelier,
who extended it not only to thermic variations, but to all altera-
tions of external and internal conditions of equilibrium (pressure,
electric state, concentration, etc.). He writes, therefore, thus:
“ Every external action impresses on a body or on a system a change,
the direction of which is such that the resistance offered by the body
or by the system to the external action is increased.” This principle
preserves its importance even beside the second principle of thermo-
dynamics, for although it authorizes only qualitative conclusions, it
may no less be used with success when it is a question of determining
the direction in which a certain process will take place, and especially
in the cases where it is not possible to bring the problem to the
mathematical form of the equation of Clapeyron or to other analo-
gous formulations of the second principle. It can at the same time,
thanks to its simple and general form, be easily remembered, since it
implies the idea of a sort of faculty of accommodation to exterior
actions inherent in matter.

Van’t Hoff announced this principle, as we have said before, only
for thermal variations, but to attempt, for this reason, to detract
from his merit, as certain authors do, appears to us profoundly un-
just, for not to mention his indisputable priority, one must not forget
that the case treated by him is much the most important for chem-
istry. He succeeds thus in settling a question which had been engag-
ing chemists for a long time, since the problem concerning the direc-
tion toward which a recreation moves is, it will be admitted, of
fundamental importance.

It is known that Thomsen had, several years before, announced a
rule on which Berthelot wanted later to confer the dignity of a natu-
ral law—the principle of maximum work, according to which, of
all possible reactions, those might be produced spontaneously and
without intervention of foreign energies, the production of which
is accompanied by the greatest development of heat.

Now this rule, which is verified in practice for most of the ordi-
nary reactions of chemistry, is found at fault in different well-stud-
ied cases of chemical reactions strictly speaking and in entire series
of processes, like the reversible processes. While Thomsen recog-
nized the empirical character of his rule, Berthelot sought on the con-
trary to save his principle by the aid of a series of ingenious reason-
ings based on the ambiguity which is attached to the use of vague
expressions, such as “to be produced spontaneously ” and “ without
the intervention of external energy.” But it was labor lost, so that

WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. ThE

Duhem pitilessly remarked, one must in order to save this principle
admit also, to the ranks of external energy, the heat absorbed in
endothermic processes. The principle in question would amount,
then, to the following statement: “ Every process which does not ab-
sorb heat develops it”; that is, in order to remain true, it must
“vanish into a ridiculous tautology.”

Now, the principle of van’t Hoff gives us the key to these contra-
dictions; since a lowering of temperature favors the processes whose
accomplishment is accompanied by a development of heat, it is the
exothermic reactions which must be produced by preference at the
low temperatures. And as the ordinary conditions of temperature
of our surroundings and of common chemical operations represent
zones sufficiently low in the complete scale of possible temperatures,
it is natural that the rule of Thomsen should be verified in them,
with a first approximation. Berthelot’s principle would become rig-
orously true only at absolute zero. But to the high temperatures
correspond principally the endothermic processes, and chemists living
at a temperature of 3,000 degrees would sooner formulate a principle
of minimum work * * *,

From this time on the work of van’t Hoff is divided into two
branches. While, following, as he will of course do, in addition, all
the rest of his life the experimental research of heterogeneous equilib-
riums, and particularly of condensed systems, he devotes the best of
his activity in the field of theory to the study of another fundamental
problem—the theory of dilute solutions and the investigation of the
molecular state of dissolved substances.

The theory of solutions, in its general lines at least, is now so well
known that it would be superfluous to examine it here, but it may
be interesting to consider its genesis. It would not be difficult to fol-
low its course through the work of our scientist; but he has himself
taken pains to make a clear exposition of it in a discourse delivered
before the Chemical Society of Berlin in 1890: “ Wie die Theorie
der Lésungen entstand.” One must seek its origin in the “ Etudes”
above referred to. He tries to find out the affinity which keeps water
in solutions and in hydrated salts, and as Mitscherlich had previously
done, he thought of founding a measure of it in the diminution of the
vapor tension of these systems as compared with pure water; but the
absolute value of these differences seems to him too slight in compari-
son with the strength which he felt even the smallest chemical forces
shall have. He then asks himself if this attraction of water can not
be measured in a more direct manner. With this question on his lips,
as he himself relates, he comes out of the laboratory one day and
meets his colleague de Vries. The latter, who was then busy with
osmotic experiments, puts him in touch with the classic researches of
Pfeffer on the direct measurement of osmotic pressure. And there
778 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

was found the link which he needed. He considers first the process
of distillation of water vapor, which goes from pure water toward a
solution, owing to the lesser tensions of the latter; he then examines
the passage of water which goes through semipermeable membranes
from the pure solvent toward a solution, owing to osmotic pressure;
comparing the two phenomena with each other, he recognizes their
parallelism.

But that is not enough. He had applied to equilibrium in gases
one of his equations which is at bottom only the result of a com-
bination of Clapeyron’s equation and the law of the gaseous state,
and wished to find out if this equation was equally applicable to solu-
tions. He observes now that by means of semipermeable walls, and
by substituting osmotic pressure for gaseous, it is possible for him to
reproduce for solutions the cycles and the reversible modifications
which have led him to deduce the equation for gases.

There results the necessary consequence that the laws of gases must
also hold for osmotic pressure. He verifies the existing data and
finds that the laws of Boyle and Gay-Lussac are in fact confirmed by
the measurements of Pfeffer, and that consequently the principle of
Avagadro must be applicable. Isotonic solutions must be equi-
molecular. And since the law of the gaseous state is applicable to
solution, he calculates, according to the measurements of Pfeffer, the
value of the constant #, and to his great surprise finds that the
numerical value of this is with great approximation equal to that
obtained for gases; the gaseous pressure and osmotic pressure exer-
cised by a given quantity of dilute substance under a definite volume
are equal.

From this moment the understanding is complete; the analogy
between the gaseous state and that of dilute solutions is established.
Van’t Hoff is not slow in making clear the relations which connect
the osmotic pressure with the diminution of tension of vapor, with
the elevation of the boiling point and the lowering of the freezing
point of solutions. Thus, he includes in the law set forth above the
empirical rules already worked out by Raoult. It is thus that the
direct measurement of osmotic pressure and indirect measurement,
such as tensimetric, ebullioscopic, and cryoscopic determinations,
which are much more exact and easier to carry out, lead to a deter-
mination of the molecular size of the substances dissolved. Our
knowledge of the molecular state of bodies, limited at first to sub-
stances obtainable in gaseous form, is thus found extended to all
soluble substances. What a revolution this extension produced in all
domains of chemistry and allied sciences is so well known that it
need not be dwelt upon.

This theory was set forth for the first time in its entirety in three
memoirs presented simultaneously on October 14, 1885, to the Royal
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 7179

Academy of Sciences of Stockholm and published in the proceedings
of that academy the following year (1886). In these memoirs there
is a rather notable limitation, namely, that all the aqueous solutions
of salts, acids, and strong bases are exceptions, in the sense that they
give too strong osmotic pressures. So van’t Hoff was obliged to intro-
duce into the equations which deal with them a coefficient ¢ greater
than (figure) 7. This apparent exception was soon explained by a
young Swedish physicist, Svante Arrhenius, who, three years before,
had studied with great success the electric conductivity of solu-
tions; since the anomaly of which we first spoke is manifested in
solutions which possess electrolytic conductivity and since coeteris
paribus it is the more pronounced the greater this conductivity, he
supposes that the electrolytes are, at the moment of solution, largely
separated into their ions.

It is thus that there originated the theory of electrolytic dissocia-
tion, which was inseparably connected from the first with that of
solutions, the struggles and triumphs of which it shared.

Opposition could not be slow in developing. In fact the storm
of astonished indignation which soon after broke out in almost the
entire chemical world, was directed less against the theory of van’t
Hoff than against that of Arrhenius, which seemed to be attempting
to overturn the most deep-rooted ideas; but objections to the first
were not lacking, especially in England. While the greater number
of French scientists shut themselves up in an opposition based on
almost disdainful indifference, a group of chemists and of English
physicists, with Pickering, Armstrong, and Fitzgerald at their head,
partisans of the theory of hydrates, opened a real campaign against
the new ideas. Better inspired, however, they did not seek to avoid
discussion, but brought about a veritable war of words.

Few public discussions will remain as memorable and as interesting
in the history of science as that which took place in 1890 at the meet-
ings of the British Association at Leeds when the three greatest rep-
resentatives of the new movement, van’t Hoff, Arrhenius, and Ost-
wald, took part by express invitation.

These are the terms in which Ostwald speaks of this tournament:

I do not think I am wronging our hosts in supposing that the invitation had
been given first of all with the friendly intention of persuading us that we were
in error and of sending us back home again after a good lesson. And during
the first days our adversaries alone held the floor, so that one might have
thought up to a certain point that we were already scientifically dead. But
when, after long and lively personal discussions, the representatives of the
modern ideas finally had a chance to speak, even at the public sessions, the ap-
pearance of things was not slow in changing, and we were able to separate
from our hosts in amiable fashion and not without triumph.

The ideas of our champions met a more cordial reception from Sir
Oliver Lodge; and in the English field itself they found an influen-
780 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

tial ally in the person of Sir William Ramsay, their contemporary,
who was already known through important studies, though he had
not yet given all he was to give in publications, which since have
made his name so universally famous.

From this moment the success of the new school was rapid and tri-
umphant, the opposition which from all sides had been made against
it was soon almost completely appeased; to be sure it did not en-
tirely disappear, but it was only whispered, rather than expressed
openly and supported by definite arguments.

The new theories were soon introduced even into elementary trea-
tises, and now they have penetrated and transformed all branches of
chemistry.

Discussions on the theories of van’t Hoff have, however, been again
renewed during recent years, both from theoretic and experimental
points of view. An American physical chemist, Kahlenberg, after
having carried out some measurements of osmotic pressure, claims to
have arrived at the conclusion that the theory of van’t Hoff is insup-
portable. But so radical a conclusion is little in accord with the
modest experimental data on which it is based, data which, besides,
have been contradicted by other writers, among them Cohen, one of
the first pupils of van’t Hoff. Another American, Morse, has shown
in a series of much more exact and thorough experimental works
that osmotic pressure follows the laws of van’t Hoff up to a quite
high degree of concentration. Scarpa has confirmed the fact that its
variations with temperature follow the law of Gay-Lussac.

Other chemists and physicists who have not thoroughly studied
the work of the master or who are acquainted with it only at second
hand have attempted to criticize the ideas of van’t Hoff concerning
the mechanism of osmotic pressure. But that is lke fighting wind-
mills. It is true that van’t Hoff has sometimes made allusion to a
kinetic conception of solutions the parallelism of which with gases
he had shown; but although he has had recourse to this conception
in didactic exposition, he never used it to deduce his laws. Indeed,
he has always brought out the fact that the mechanism of osmotic
pressure and the manner of action of the semipermeable wall have
no influence on the deduction and the development of the theory.

The truth is that the theory of dilute solutions (many forget this
adjective on which van’t Hoff had always laid stress) represents
a limit law, like many other great natural laws, the value of which
no one has ever, on that account, denied. The truth is, also, that
the perfect semipermeable membrane is an ideal object impossible
* to attain and even now extremely difficult to approach.

But even if this membrane were a pure abstraction the theory of
it would be none the less true, since all the laws of evaporation,

WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 781

ebullition, and freezing of solutions—laws which are the necessary
consequence of this theory—have been and still are to-day verified
with the necessary accuracy. ‘The thousands and thousands of
ebulliscopic and, above all, cryoscopic determinations which have
been and are daily being made in laboratories represent so many
confirmations and place the theory on so solid a foundation, that no
critic, however keen he may be, will be able to shake it.

It can not be denied that our ideas on the nature of solutions—
of concentrated solutions in particular—and on the state of the dis-
solved substances have taken a new direction in the last few years
and are tending to-day to return to a theory of hydrates or, in
general, of solvates; that is, to admit the existence of combination
of the molecules of the solvent with the molecules of the dissolved
ions. But there is nothing in that which would conflict with the
theory of van’t Hoff; indeed, it is strong partisans of the latter who
have inaugurated the new movement.

Tn this respect, again, the theory of van’t Hoff is a limit theory;
it corresponds to the purely physical conception of the solution in
which the solvent has no other function than that of diluting, of
separating from one another, the molecules of the substance dissolved ;
reality differs more or less from this scheme. The deviations have
an insignificant effect only in the case of very dilute solutions and of
especially indifferent solvents; in default of these circumstances the
deviations cease to be negligible.

It often happens in the history of science that at a certain time
two theories seem absolutely opposed to each other; one of them
emerges from the struggle victorious. In the course of time, how-
ever, it is perceived that the contradiction was not by any means as
necessary as had been believed at first, but that each of the two theo-
ries represented an extreme and too simple solution of the problem,
and that the vanquished theory itself contained germs of truth, sus-
ceptible of development and adaptation.

As Walden remarked, one might have believed at Leeds 20 years
ago that a chemical theory of hydrates was irreconcilably opposed
to a physical theory of solutions; to-day Pickering can have the sat-
isfaction of seeing rejuvenated his idea of combinations with the
solvent; but far from appearing as a negation, this idea appears
rather as a useful extension of the views of van’t Hoff. The credit
for having propagated this new movement belongs to Ciamician,
who, as early as 1891, proposed admitting the formation of such
solvates to explain electrolytic dissociation.

Permit me finally to draw your attention to the influence that the
most recent study on the Brownian movement and on the nature of
colloids has exercised on the questions that we are discussing.
These brilliant researches have established the continuous passage
7182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

of coarse dispersions into true solutions in the strictest sense, and
have given for the first time a plausible demonstration of the real
existence of molecules, and thence of the kinetic nature of gaseous
and osmotic pressures.

But let us return to our subject. In 1890 van’t Hoff published a
very interesting extension of his theory. He showed that it can be
applied equally to the solid homogeneous mixtures of the nature of
isomorphous mixed crystals, and founded thus the theory of solid
solutions to the development of which the writer can congratulate
himself on having contributed.

In the further development of the theory of solutions by experi-
mental studies, van’t Hoff took no more part, confining himself to
making it public with the aid of recapitulations and explanatory arti-
cles and of conferences. He did not, however, abandon experimental
work, which he followed with untiring assiduity, though he reserved
this side of his activity for the other group of questions treated in
his “ Etudes de dynamique chimique,” for heterogeneous equilibri-
ums and condensed systems.

This domain had already been treated, particularly as to the phe-
nomena of dissociation, by a brilliant French school which began
with St. Claire Deville and ended with Le Chatelier, and another
Dutch school, headed by Bakhuis Roozeboom, starting with only
slightly different ideas, began to work in the same direction.

Van’t Hoff and his pupils busied themselves first of all with the
conditions of formation and of decomposition of double salts in
aqueous solutions by devoting their attention on the one hand to
compounds such as Astrakanite and Carnallite, which are minerals
found in nature, and on the other hand to the racemates, thus again
studying stereochemical questions. The results have been collected
in a little book entitled “ Vorlesungen tiber Bildung und Spaltung
der Doppelsalze,” published in 1897, one of the least known books of
our scientist, because of the nature of the subject, which, although of
great importance, is of such an abstruse character that it can be
treated only in a somewhat dry fashion.

This group of works covers the decade from 1886 to 1895, the
second period of van’t Hoff’s stay in Amsterdam.

We now come to the Berlin period of his activity, devoted entirely
to the application of principles and methods previously discovered,
to the investigation of the conditions of formation of oceanic de-
posits and particularly of the famous deposits of Stassfurt. In this
work, which was the first, and remains the greatest, attempt to apply
- physical chemistry to the problems of geology and to transform the
latter, so far as possible, into an experimental science, he had
Wilhelm Meyerhoffer as a constant collaborator for 10 years, until
his untimely death, in 1906, at the early age of 42 years.
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 783

He was no ordinary collaborator; when, in 1896, he became asso-
ciated with the master in the founding of the little private laboratory
of Hollandstrasse he had already written, among others, a little book
on the phase rule, which is still one of the best on this question, and
had already carried out very important experimental work on the
affinities of reciprocal pairs of salts, a subject which for problems
that he was treating was of the greatest importance. In theoretic
questions he was an absolutely independent and original thinker
and not always in accord with the master.

* * * The mother idea of the common work belongs in great
part to Meyerhoffer, as van’t Hoff has always openly admitted. In
his work on reciprocal salt pairs, Meyerhoffer had expressed in 1895
the opinion that “the formation of the saline deposits of Stassfurt,
Wielicza, and other places, inasmuch as they are of marine origin,
can not be explained in a satisfactory manner until one has submitted
to a systematic research the solubility and the equilibric connections
which occur among salts which are found in the water of the sea.”

Further, in 1889, in a rectoral discourse at the University of Ley-
den, van Bemmelen made allusion to the opportunity of applying
the methods in question to the solution of geologic problems. Can we
say on that account that van’t Hoff brought to this question no origi-
nal contribution? Nothing would be more absurd. In 1887, before
the work of Meyerhoffer and the allusion of van Bemmelen, he had
established the conditions of formation of different salts existing in
the layers of oceanic origin, such as the astrakanite, the leonite, and
the schénite, and the method of research which has been used to clear
up the question is no other than that which he introduced. Meyer-
hoffer himself was inspired by his earlier works and had carried out
in his laboratory his inaugural work.

The investigation lasted 10 years, and is set forth in 51 separate

. papers, which were all published between 1897 and 1906 in the Pro-
ceedings of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin. We should be car-
ried too far if we tried to give an idea of them, even a brief one. It
is known that the deposits at Stassfurt, which are considered as
having been preduced by the evaporation of an inland sea, are com-
posed essentially of chlorides, sulphates, and borates of sodium, potas-
sium, magnesium, and calcium, and of all their possible double salts.
It was a question of determining the order in which they were depos-
ited, the possible interrelations of minerals (what is called paragene-
sis), the limits of temperature and of concentration in which the dif-
ferent separations and the various types of paragenesis could take
place. In order to solve so complicated a problem, they worked by
preference, in determining the solubility at different temperatures,
first on pairs of salts, then on all the possible complex systems; to
784 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

establish the different temperatures of transformation they used
ordinary tensimetric and dilatometric methods.

The problem may be considered to-day completely solved, at least
so far as its theoretic side is concerned. Moreover, the results agree
on almost all points with those obtained by mineralogists and
those in practical work; some of the new minerals, one of which
bears the name of vanthoffite, at first unknown and prepared syn-
thetically, have been since found in nature as a result of the sugges-
tions given. The importance of these studies, even from the practical
point of view, has been recognized by practical men and by the
German government. A committee was in fact established, in 1908,
charged with making a detailed study of the deposits of Stassfurt,
with reference to their application, but based principally on the
work of van’t Hoff..* * *

We have come now to the end of this brief review of the life of
the master and of the different phases of his scientific work. But
our purpose would not be fully attained if we did not turn back
for a resurvey of the entire field to see his figure as a man and a
scientist as it was in reality.

As I have already said, he reproduced in his features the Dutch
type, he had a height slightly above the medium, and in his manner
of dressing and of speaking, as well as in familiar conversation,
he appeared as he was—modest; only the gentle but keen and pene-
trating eye betrayed at times the exceptional man that stood
before one.

As a man he was not one of those who weaken the splendor of
their genius by crudities and extravagances of character; his real
goodness, his serene gentleness, his modesty, even reaching almost
to ingenuousness, have brought him as many affectionate friends
as his work procured him admirers.

He had as many and as high academic and scientific honors as a*
man could wish; of ambitions of another kind he did not possess the
slightest trace; his life ran tranquilly in the bosom of his family,
consisting of his wife, whom he had married while she was very
young, two daughters, and two sons. He was a complete stranger: to
the spirit of domination and intrigue, and for this reason he never
had to suffer any of those jealousies and envies so frequent even in
the academic world. No superiority has ever been recognized so
tacitly and unresistingly as his, which he never made any one feel,
whoever it was.

He was extremely reserved when it was a question of expressing
opinions on things, and particularly on men; and it was only after a
long period of intimacy that one could hear him pronounce explicit
judgments, especially if they were not favorable.
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 785

His general culture was certainly very wide, particularly in the
scientific domain. He appreciated arts and letters and attached to
them great importance, even when taking the point of view of
pure science; that is what his inaugural address (as we have already
mentioned) teaches us, about the imagination in the exact sciencess
we learn in it also that one of his favorite subjects for reading was
the lives of great scientists, which he would devour in great quanti-
ties until he could cite more than 200 of them.

As to his philosophic and religious ideas, we know that as a young
man he was admirer and partisan of the positive philosophy of Aug.
Comte; but his opinions have never been, so far as I know, the object
of exterior manifestation; so much the more from several expressions
in a necrology of Roozeboom, in which he speaks, though in respect-
ful terms, of the religious fanaticism of the latter and of the desire
which he expressed of being cremated; so much the more, I say, can
one conclude from these expresions that he remained, to the end of
his life, faithful to his first ideas on these questions.

He had not the qualities of a brilliant and popular orator and, a
stranger to every sort of dilettanteism, he had never yielded to the
desire to appear attractive; but his lectures of a general and recapitn-
latory character are read none the less willingly and with profit be-
cause of the clearness and richness of their ideas, although they are
not always easy reading. In some necrologies—for example, in
those of Meyerhoffer and Roozeboom—he has given free course td
sentiment, and succeeds often in finding efficacious and moving
expressions.

Just as he was not an orator for large audiences, so he was not
made for elementary teaching; he said so himself, in a lecture, and
it was to rid himself of this obligation, for him a sacrifice, that he
decided to accept the situation which had been made for him in Ber-
lin. He gave here regularly a single course of one hour a week on
selected branches of physical chemistry, and from this course, which
was delivered to limited audiences, came his book, “ Lessons on theo-
retical and physical chemistry,” which had great success, thanks to
the original and completely personal manner in which the subject
was developed.

If the position of professor in the broad sense of the word was
often burdensome to him, he was always gratified with his réle of
master to the young students, already mature, who worked with him
in his researches.

As he never had large laboratories, he was never surrounded by
very many pupils; but some of them have succeeded in making
for themselves prominent places in science as well as in teaching.
We have already spoken above of the interesting personality of the

44863°—sm 1913——50
786 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

lamented Meyerhoffer. Among others one can not pass in silence
Ernest Cohen, formerly his assistant in Amsterdam and to-day pro-
fessor at Utrecht, the most faithful and best authorized interpreter
of the thought of the master; from his loving activity we expect the
work which shall make the figure of the latter live again in all its
details before us.t. Heinrich Goldschmidt and G. Bredig, now pro-
fessors at Christiania and at Zurich, each spent several years in his
laboratory in Amsterdam.

The writer of these lines can not help referring, in thought,
toward that laboratory at Wilmersdorf, near Berlin, in which he
had the pleasure of working during the years 1900-1901. It was a
little laboratory located in a rented house conveniently furnished
for the researches which were made in it (on the Stassfurt salts),
but not for anything else; beside van’t Hoff, Meyerhoffer, and an
appointed assistant there was not room for more than five or six
students. There never was, I believe, a more international and poly-
giot laboratory; one may say that, except the French, all nationali-
ties have been there. The meetings with the master were frequent
and familiarly cordial. Certainly the day of the announcement of
his death none of us who had been permitted there could help think-
ing, with a melancholy not without tenderness, of the days which
passed by in the peaceful work at Wilmersdorf.

But beyond these details it may be interesting to inquire into
his manner of procedure in intellectual work and his attitude in
regard to some of the great questions which agitate and divide the
scientific world.

His mind was first of all synthetic and coordinative: his work,
by choice, always consisted in studying a large number of facts in
order to make out their reciprocal relations and express them in
general laws. Certainly in him, as in the case with most inventive
minds, the result was already present when the demonstration was
not yet finished—another proof of the fact that progress, based on a
flight of the imagination rather than on a series of successive and
maturely considered steps, has an essential part in the development
of science. That was the favorite thesis of van’t Hoff.

But he was perfectly aware that the success of such a flight does
not remove from the exact scientist the obligation of returning and
uniting, by a passageway offering every security, the point attained
with the shore which had served as a point of departure.

And, indeed, one of the characteristics which strike us in his work
is that when he announced a theory he announced it already com-
plete. Let us consider his three principal works—stereochemistry,
the studies in chemical dynamics, and the theory of solutions; each

1 This expectation has meantime been fulfilled; see ‘‘ Jacobus Henricus van’t Hoff, Sein
Leben und Wirken, by Ernst Cohen, xv, 638 pp. Leipzig, 1912.
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 787

of the three fundamental publications which bear on these contained
all the essential parts of the respective theory not only in germ but
sufficiently developed and demonstrated.

This creator of theories, this man who gave science so many new
ideas, was nevertheless a stranger to all metaphysics, to every exag-
geration; he was not one of those who, into whatever domain they
enter, wish at any price to create a general system which embraces
all the universe, which shall comprise all important and unimportant
facts, existing and not existing. Though a generalizing and syn-
thetic mind, he was never abstract nor schematic. We see this also
in the lectures in which the theories are almost always set forth, not
in an abstract fashion, but resting upon concrete examples.

This tendency of his mind explains his attitude with regard to the
theory of phases, and this point is one of the most curious in the
scientific life of van’t Hoff. It is known that the phase rule is con-
tained in the great work of Willard Gibbs, published between 1874
and 1878 in the Proceedings of the Connecticut Academy; but it re-
mained unknown for about 10 years, until van der Waals mentioned
its importance in a private conversation with Bakhuis Roozeboom,
who had already commenced his researches on heterogeneous equi-
librium. Roozeboom for the first time adopted the phase rule for
the classification of heterogeneous equilibriums in 1887, three years
after the publication of “ Etudes de dynamique chimique.” Now, in
the part relating to heterogeneous equilibriums, to condensed sys-
tems, to double salts, etc., the studies of van’t Hoff have already pene-
trated from one end to the other of the understanding of the theory
of phases; they are the theory of phases in action, and he lacks only
the definite schemes, for Gibb’s phase rule is, at bottom, nothing else.

It is psychologically comprehensible that van’t Hoff had conceived
a certain aversion for this theory, an aversion which he never gave
up; he spoke of it reluctantly, and never used it in his treatises. It
was only in 1902 that he decided to present to the Chemical Society
of Berlin a recapitulatory address on this subject, an address in
which, besides a clear and objective statement of the theory and of
its applications, are found these phrases, which translate his thought
or rather his sentiment: “It is regrettable that, whatever may be
the importance of the phase rule, the appreciation of its value has
been somewhat exaggerated. Many things are attributed to it which
are not due to its application. The great importance of the phase
rule rests less in the value which it may have as a guide in research
than in the pedagogic value which it presents whenever it is a ques-
tion of treating and classifying the phenomena of equilibrium.”

Now, this does not seem to me quite exact, and I may say that that
is the only point in which I find that van’t Hoff is a little lacking in
justice and yields unconsciously to a weakness. That the theory of

a
788 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1913.

Gibbs has given rise to some exaggerations, that one may even m the
most complicated labyrinth of heterogeneous equilibrium discover
the right way without having recourse to the theory of phases, that
all the individual cases involved can be solved without one’s being
obliged to state the law—all that is indisputable, and van’t Hoff has
furnished a practical demonstration of it; but it is no less indisputa-
ble that there is a great utility in the fact that the particular types
and the rules relating to them may be united into one body without
one’s being obliged to find them again each time, the scheme being
capable of great usefulness not only for classification, but because it
furnishes a convenient guiding thread in research, especially to those
who have not the breadth of mind of a van’t Hoff.

Van’t Hoff was a faithful partisan of the atomic and molecular
theory. One could expect nothing else from the founder of stereo-
chemistry. Friend and companion of Ostwald in the struggles for
the modern physiochemical theories, he separated from him when
the latter declared war on the atomistic theory in the name of the
energetic, not only by doubting the real existence of atoms and
molecules, but by denying the possibility of ever demonstrating
this existence, and disputing even the advantage of the use of the
atomic theory as an instrument of work. When the campaign of
Ostwald, which a prompt defeat awaited, was in full swing, van’t
Hoff gave, in 1906, in Vienna, a lecture in which, without departing
from his calm and serene tone, he put people on guard against the
dangers of this movement and affirmed once more his conviction
that the atomic theory was still destined to render great service to
science.

Of the two courses which physical chemistry can pursue he fol-
lowed the chemical one. As a chemist he was always interested in
the substances themselves, the physical properties interesting him
only as characteristics of the substances, and the general laws them-
selves, as well as the physical and mathematical methods, interesting
him only as more perfect means toward the investigation of their
nature—a means permitting one to give of the infinite variety of
the latter a quantitative and more exact expression than could be
obtained with the vague concepts and inexact methods of traditional
chemistry. On the other hand, what interests the physical chemists
of the other wing, as well as the pure physicists, is above all, the
properties in themselves, the substances appearing to them only as
the inevitable bearers of these properties.

In any case it is certainly no injustice to even the most famous
physicochemists of his generation to say that he was head and
shoulders above them. If one wants to find men whose worth is
eomparable to his one must go further back to the heroic times when
WORK OF VAN’T HOFF—BRUNI. 789

the differentiation between chemists and physicists was not yet
marked; and to the mind are presented names like those of Bunsen,
Faraday, Gay-Lussac. But of what use are these comparisons? It
is certain that he belongs to the stars of science of first magnitude,
to those whose light does not grow pale.

Of the four great subjects which he has treated each one would
be sufficient for the glory of a great chemist; two of them (stereo-
chemistry and the theory of solutions) are among the greatest bodies
of theory of universal science, and one alone would be enough to
assure its founder a place among the greatest. Thus his glory
instead of becoming less can only increase, since it depends not on
the exceptional exterior quantities of the man but on the greatness
of the work accomplished.
INDEX.

A. Page,

Abalones of California, the Sopra sec ei tee! E enche a is SASS Shae eae wicks ee 429
Abbot, C. G.. ee _...... Xi, 14, 18, 32, 33, 92, 93, 106, 109, 131
aioe pee in fuses eo Bisse sti Nei Sc arenas sit he Se Se cherd ater 175

eR ABUT Ae Degas hos a as nye Sia MSNA Moe Je AEE ae SoA 10, 27, 40, 130, 138
Abyssinia, collecting trip in--...-....-..- CR ae balcsctitc a Date 4 a Deer ee ete 10
Beerons to Museum collections..0s.- .-csse2 sas scons wo le ee ne eee 27
USEPA ECU WAT ey ee ceo oe anki ociuccores Gem betes oo. 6 ee aoe 134
adams» Wl (disburse acent of the Institution): 0.2. 9202. ..2 ) 22s eee oe X, Xi
MCT HD iis Sa MMMTLON eo as a/c. s Sa Sie ciskne mre See e Seas Dah Se eee eee 21, 128
PREROMUOMM CH ops ete ie Ns wipes oes VA alld 2 Sails alee a eee ee ie 21, 22
mMerodynamical laboratory, Langley.............-.: 22 2o.20522 1, 7, 8, 14, 19, 136, 138
TEPOLb OMe ee BS re EAI Senior 115-119

MC RCPSNE RCH TIT TAT VS 275 ayatsi cin oie, wiors Sy = rete Slate ow oe clue nora ete, atch nl GE cece Sip eee S 19, 96
Em uPIOlocicaAl OXpPedltlONSs Wis... 46 esl. ee es on es soe ee 9, 10, 26, 129, 133
Agriculture, Secretary of (member of the Institution)...................-.....- x
Albany, dedication of State education building at..................---.---..- 23
Rereetrip teehee a hol SSA OS Wes wees caig See Soe aE Sao ee x, 106, 131
PR POEULMVOX PCOLION tooo 52s od So oe sem = amie be eras nine recto s « « e e 131
TES CONES 0) OE SH DES EN es fee eg ee are Seri SCI | aS Br 113
Pula MOUn tained eX PeCION 10s ae. ss clases ab wae = Ke Shae las 11, 39
Arncrican. bears, monortaphic study-of..... .¢2.)so... 25 eles eee ee ot 14
American Bird Banding Association, accomplishment during 1912 (Cleaves)... 469
American Historical Association, publications of. ..............- Es ee 112, 113
Treporviel.. i252 e eat eee 18

PEHerCane in Gigs, NANG DOOK Ole) ssO..c vo oe bs dace ode koe emia de «ee ee 29, 53, 56
Americanists, Nineteenth International Congress of.............-.---.-.------ 23
Pee STSEAT AINA Vie e Senet ie Se mye eo cla lnkcs ete wig Vimo inlet ah eee
Reais Y Rese tes tres Peer sy ee feck sh ns)a = he, he oe 27, 40, 132
BERL IEICE ELA MPO LCE net arse Sate Lic OW hehe Ct eae anh ial CA ote WLP Dk s Cec ae 109
ReTNIEGI EN) hve as co aa es So oe ae NaS. Rie pki cee Boi Re aos 113
eee EMM CRRD EES as a et Uoes SA Saal is = 2 yn od Oe selawle beeen ee eee. et Melee
ere a ee ye uals da LY aie HOG Gaines Spans 92, 93
Panunal report; Pmithsonise 22.202... 25.223 $2225 2 - Se 16) AOE
eachronolomen| ehudles/I® POL s.. cn o hoe oat Se nee oe ene 13
Siberia and Mongolia... .2:2scc.c8 2. t losis sees 12, 132

Anthropology and Archeology, Fourteenth International Congress of Prehistoric. 23
Mepert, 2. (the problems of heredity)... .. <2. << ...c.jc0-. 0082 +92-- 25-0252 eee | eee

ealpcionm, Wpene ere no eo see tae od eo cle 3s eho eek eS cee 28, 39
Applied Chemistry, Eighth International Congress of.........-.------------- 22
Archeological researches in the West Indies............------------"--+-----+- 45-48
Archeelogy, Avmorican school of, im Ching. ..-.-.-. 2252-22-22. 2 f= sees 15, 136

Third International Congress on...............--------242--- eee 23
Penchiven emi nommstlibiono sss. sono: o. S322 .2 - See. ee ees ee eee 20
PARR LEOU AULT ADs Serer etre ie SO BA Sy, 5 ah iats VE a tine aiaidinnae A aein ees als ea 109
192 INDEX.

Page.

Arty National: Gallery ofs, wn: ssse ces cison 8 9 -SeG ee eee ie ok ie eee 28, 41, 42, 128
ATUPORUICH. Foo. ook cis, 5 else ee eee EPRI ese 2, eer le eae 42
Assistant Secretaries of the Institution....................-------2---0--ses- > al
Astrophysical Observatory... 325) 2222 eee Oe oI eee eee eee 1; 6; 7, 14;52,33
Library sco S eo a sw ee aie Scars 2 eee ae 19, 99

PubLCAMONSS sce cee Lk Rees Se is eee 16, 18, 33, 91, 112

TOPOPbe so 2 6 cee oeism cio tie oie ie ee eee ee ee 87-94

rf: 8 ile Aa A Pe Pu se ea sic able clare he oan ba

Astrophysics, recent progress in (Abbot)... -)./.a2.220 = be ee 175

Atmosphere, influence of, on health and comfort................-.-.-2---2.---. 17
Atmosphere, the manufacture of nitrates from the (Scott)............-........ 359

Attorney General (member of the Institution)...................2...--..... 5 4
Audubon, John: James. ..\.<i. 2 seca scene Gases sees ee eee 108
every, RODEr StANLON: 400 -.cis¢ oP sa =< sm clas ee ee 6, 121, 127
ayaras oF Langley medal sie) ceo! se ect esctele le cele Se a 21,22
B.
ieabenek, William Hi 2 oe252 te. secon che uit ae eee pee 107
Bacon, Senator Augustus O. (Regent)......-.....-.....-- X, 2, 124, 125, 126, 182, 137
BRON Pron: /RODOEL ao% seer seus Sa © Se oR eo oie Sele See ae ee 134
Dakere ayy aot oso eek etki bes ot Looe a he ee xi
Pacer) POE MRAM 2 55 ay cinta atone 2a ane Ce ee eee xi, 18, 86
baldwin; dames Mo) 20a ts mo Sess eae ua ren a oa pn 112
Ballou, Prof. "Boward M2: 2 ok. Neh iN ibs fe ei pl AOR ep 57
Barker Wucene Coe cys cee kl ek a eid AMS a lS oes eee 113
Bares, Howard Gon .on ses eee eee hee cin A ee 109
partschewOr, shawl ..8 cho he essen el ek US wae es ie ee 40
PSABSIOF bcc Sete a < cthete ene Shean = eis icim dad eices wie eee aeaale SIS EE ee xi
Bears) a:monopraphic study of American. .....- 02 25is:.04:02--ee oeeeee 14
Heptham MBenieye (ss Sass. SAS Geeta ee ae el AS ee 108
ICH IY eemsk aicis ore aera msice = aim wis he AOR cana SERS a eee 108
Bell, Alexander Graham (Regent)............----- X, 2, 21, 124, 125, 132, 135, 136, 137
Benedict, James... so nicha nap Se ose seek Cacled e pe am meee ee xi
Benjamin Marcus). in 15. cake sss seeieciatioe ¢ aohus sells te eee xi
CRG AN Ce cre ve we eateries pte herein aes oe ike See oe ee 40, 106
Beret, "Alphonse s.)- 3s so shine aioe seed ince ssc debe eee eee ae 109
Berry, E. W. (notes on the geological history of the walnuts and hickories).. - - . 319
Biological collections in the National Museum. ...................-....-2.2- 39, 41
expeditions an Agric... oJ. sc cece see ete een Beene 9, 10, 26, 129, 133
survey of the Panama Canal Zone.:...-..-2.----522-5- pecan 12, 13, 16, 129
Bird Banding Association, American, accomplishment during 1912 (Cleaves)... 469
Birds, the ‘value-oi, to man (Buckland)... (2. J3.. -2<.22 see see ee 439
Blackwelder, Eliot (the geologic history of China and its influence on the
Chinese people)3- jeans Jaane Hee 1 ea alias h Oke aes 385
Bliss, Cornelius N......... 2S te bile syaitie ainea SRS Ne tie ee 134
Bloch, Eugene (recent developments in electromagnetism)... ............-.- 223
Bloch Adolphe c/o. a. Se ea a tins Sr ee hee ee ee 109
BON, PAN oc Lo ace to sc esis alee Ses Tei RIN OI pin eae xi, 53, 54, 58
Boerschmianin, Birnst:o).62ie2 <c.0i/'s'. es Ses Aehsegs aki oe oe oe 108
Bond, A. R., J. B. Walker and (creating a subterranean river and supplying a
metropolis with mountain water)... Gee se - - is ee 709
Book stacks, NEW: ses 5-6... See mp aeee ogee ee ce 19, 96

Borel, Wile oc ss ge lay at wc ete bal eee ee eng Paka ee 109
INDEX. 793

: Page.
Maan ce TSI RCT OTIS DIE cnn) 0 (GED Lyle OY gL Sh la 2S AE NR 10, 11, 40, 130
Oma SACODUN i fete ie ie wade! ie 0 Wy ea bts Ss iW UMe ge bye veih Me Beall Sop 112
BIEN VN) SUUBE 1208 Soe | ai ge eta oe ee Love CEN CAT Ree HP 112
ELON ary Venere ane yac,2 hs SUEY Ede UES ety ck Aa ate, a 109
"BYSPPPET) Zine fe) Ophea A NN a ego es POR PO Rae SO ee eae GAGS 108
Potaaeatar re OMMGAS Leas tS. Se Mos) Sea os dks AR Oh BON PLN 22, 185
ieemencolummbian) expedition. 23.9 46050 5 48 eee re Ae ee ee 130
Beisn Past Airica, collecting trip-In<sso1¢2022. 055 oe 4s ee. oe he. te 10, 39
prieshe North DOMeO 5.53. 2... 2<cee.-. - BRIN ACPD TG 1g NL rew ed inet) Sg ae 132
LUT os 1 (Ee a ee er SC cee Pee gee Ou Sasi EMP eal lA A Bye cB cae ee GD
Brockett, Paul (assistant librarian of the Institution)........................ x
MIRE EDRs racer race Maisie oe haa et cic desk Sy Re 109
em SSEIRB BAC ean em Sania Sepae date Mares La aed Sacuie'.'. ce n xi
rutin. (the work of J: H. -van’t Hoff)... 2.2.25. ..05 22-20 oee costa eaen ase 767
Bryan, William Jennings, Secretary of State (member of Institution)... ..... x
Buckland, Jamesi(the valueiof birds to man)......./....'.-.. 2-252. .22220 8 439
LEGS? AUT ri 8 tok Ae ee ee an SRR Laks 28
ipirexn ons tandards, United: States... cs < cies oe ccled oni Siw we ee 117
Burleson, Albert Sidney, Postmaster General (member of Institution). ....... x
Beet eB ry Mery enc iay sie oi oiascts ts cis. iste ta myatartnca ee NGL x hoe he ea cee 55
Peet erae Heat ee ET OUT 2 0tcftolg a oct sre Selo ah eo) ofS os Ws ws eat OO 15, 136, 137
BaP N SO EUS ce ricerca ae ew syd Se nS S| tan a seclg eae 58
C:
AEM MATE EM CR OUNITOT cose ooo SC cited nig naa Nak ecyjersis aaa 92, 93
RUSmEREr RE dca MONLONe = sos) ature aiee Ne. Lie eee SLLEN ee Ua ee 112
Cambrian geology and paleontology, studies in....................2...2.2... 8,16
AMA HEL SAMOS scala sons nadie ae. eels ae) bears A eG a aS 134
Canadian Rockies, geological studies in..........--...-..--..-.---.- eee 8
Saris ete LEE Wer Nm el 9s (Shon sic sie os oe aXe wd chins 5) doh yd Aen anys, ae 134
Corre rePerEMOt s MALO MONA ies le pcos eee cle Me Sin oy gnc Se eR eran Sie 136, 137
Catalogue of publications. BOS ope AE een SUES ase eR Mr ee EC eres SE 2 19
Catterall, Ralph C. H.. Bees eset Re er, SEIS Le eM OU ae Se ET
Chamberlain, Dr. Nitseadee eee Ee ROMS 55 4eG 2  ae 8 neers aks an Dara teem Neer je | 54
Braeetlor Othe PastiCUtlON) sa... 25 di < noe since new oe o-oo tee es nes x,2
Chemistry, Eighth International Congress of Applied....................... 22
Srrchelerk Ontne! ImsutUtlON. 22.0... scencecoos de sees sews bel ol a eeeek x

Bee aoe rihoiUnited States (Chanecllor)......-...) m2
China, American school of archeology in.....-...-...5...2.2-22-2----0e0 +20. 15; 186

Mente GMS ROEM eye tetra ae roe aS Sal aiele ts Melee be oaths eee SNS 132

the geologic history of, and its influence upon the Chinese people
UESTEVGH se) (2) 9) Sel A ck a eI ee 385
Wawate, Onarlesihr 10. (RCPCNL)acccascs ee tse cae oven ances. stl oeeugee X, cpg ee
Clark, A. Howard (editor of the Institution)....................---.---- X, x1, 18, 114
IST, VeCISTTTen 8 Gy OF Tags cae ae eases anne me oa eg ae eee Race Peer 105, 106
Sei amne tem tetoe SM sr ene Oe Ns. US 2 Nolo, £8 Sidah aia std Sheth xi, 22

Cleaves, Howard H. (What the American Bird Banding Association has accom-
pibeibeciMtreIN EOL) eee ren Seer Seyret a hala cite aya tns oe eee Ree

licen ie baer ees ices ete te Sch) Bay Ae) giles ee adits 109

(the economic and social réle of fashion)........ —.......-. 755
Sombachion fame losn(Billis\e seo aul srs 16% oes's Sis. do nels ale oad tee Wales 639
Commerce, Secretary of (member of Institution)............-....---..--- ine x

Committee on printing and) publication... 2.2 2... i. e.e. ede eek eee eee 18, 114
794 INDEX.

Page.
Gonpresses:and celebrations. .2 .....c.2- 1-/-tiose tee ase ie oe 22-24, 43
Contributions to knowledge, Smithsonian..........................---.--.-- 16,104
Pook Os WoaGs sivas cose se wa.c ceases Semen ne es Se tee eer = aan 111
Costantin, J. (the development of orchid cultivation and its bearing on theories
OL EVGOMITION ) oi 02.5213 accin co's a ulc inte Osc olatareumnatela ariel ak ea ae. ea 345
Gotirell® DryPe Gisccsscsc sce e cow ees cae See COE eee Tee ane eee 4
(problems in smoke, fume, and dust abatement)........-.... 653
Boummont, Jules. 2355.20.22. e cece cs cose ureee Bene See Sees Sees . 4) ee
Wow: Be SV a2 laws aes are ice Os hie Soe a ee ee ee Pe nA ep xi
(the formation of leatmolady.)'2.:05 ie ee ee ee ee 333
Cox visage Joslin: . 6.05 GA. 2. oe Se i aeeiaah ae eet eee ee 113
Ora wAOT sid ssc sovs cs aise os bees bee ee oes RE 6 Oe eee xi, 98
Gullom; Hon. Shelby M.-% lsc o2 4.2.0. Ses SA eS eee 2, 125
@rrrelly, Charles TY. coc 8 Sis. nt See an Oe ae en ee 137
Curtis, Hd ward Saccs2set cel fee ee as Ue Ae a core ee 133
Gurtiss; Glenn Ja ss2 csi ts Solas be Care earner Sie eee ee eee 21, 22, 135, 138
Gushman, Joseph Ao. 5620265. he ds osce tee eee eee ee see lll
Caine W. avard 22.22 2 eke eee S Saw he eee i een 134
Dz.
MTD ESOW SEs aciionc Sire fos eos See sw et eee eee geen ee xi, 98, 105
Dalzell, Representative John (Regent)........-.--..-.------- X, 2, 124, 125, 182, 136
Daniels, Josephus, Secretary of the Navy (member of Institution)..........-- x
Daughters of the American Revolution, report of National Society of.......... 18, 114
Bay ATGOUE Wie o's, seins oe whic waren store's emyn hen eee eee ne 109
and E. 8. Shepherd (water and volcanic activity)..........-.-- 278
Way, Mdward ©. .....-cssecsrees = saan lS SStiedine aainee ee eens ouee ee ee 14
Demography, Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and..........--..-- 23
de Morgan, Jacques (feudalism in Persia; its origin, development, and present
GCOHALEIOM esa e cess Gaicic hin ee sees ho Re ee Oe 579
Densutore, Mass Frances ..52 5.2 ic.c8.. 2022 sccneeteccsmuisa-4 oe oa- eee
Deslandres: Mr. Ment). 25. diseccccs oe aes See ec oaee Rene ee eee Loe 24
Devaux, Henri (oil films on water and mercury)...-....----------------+--- 261
Dickson, H. N. (the redistribution of mankind).............-..:...11...-2.2 0) ai
Distribution of publications: ..02.. 122.2 ok agen 12 ee 19
Podge, Cleveland -Hi-*:'. <2.) Saga. s ic. MSR ee ea ee ee 134 —
Dorsey, Harry W. (chief clerk of the Institution). -......15-25-= 505 sS2s2 ee x
POLO CBS a esses saa cs age = etnies e, walt es ed, Ses Ee a a lil
Mirighere, Carl. ct. cic! ie ee bees 2s = Unni eS I A 109
TPIT ACO DIE Ses Se rae cece le ee ae chee Ss oe cee 2 ne ae 57
E.
(Bartitand sun as maonets (Hale): .<.2 2. 2220.23.22. -cseeese as ee eee 145
Barth’s magnetism, the (Bauer)... 22.4.0. 9 72 ee ee ee 195
Biios of the Insitutions: 5.222 2ee 2 ees: sass Se ee x, xi, 18, 114
Edwards, Charles L. (the abalones of California).................-.-.--- er
Hawards; Hy Wie fi wkeseses. eee aan eta. ce a ee 118
Htiel’ Gustave: 6520s sods secant eames eee ee ee ee 21, 22, 135, 138
Electromagnetism, recent developments in (Bloch)..............-.....---.-- 223
Blectron, dynamics of the. . //2esedey ss See ee a ae ee 223
Pili te CharlespWees cores cae eee eee Cee tetd eee 137
Ellis, Carleton (flameless combustion) «5250. 222- 2) 22 29ekee eee 639

End of the world, modern ideas on the (Jaumann)...................--------- 213
INDEX. 195

Page.

Energy, wireless transmission of (Thomson)................................. 243

PMV ane etic Manis) “one. o cose ke UNE We ey bo one as 307

Hsiabliahment: the Smithsonian. 2.0/2.2). 2) soe en sac es BS sitet Rt he if

Hihnology, Bureau of American =). 22... 02 Ash bouts he a ee 1, 6, 7, 28-30, 44-62

Collections. 45 dicts hat ae te ed 52 2) ae ee 60, 61

Inbrary een sere a 2 ek eee ee ee eee 19, 60, 99

publications 16, 17, 18, 19, 29, 30, 57-59, 111, 112

102] 010) ieee So OU ADEN we SPB AA Sse aceisis sah Oe oct 44-62

SpA che rales nN as Sed Sneak eRe xt

Evans, A. J. (the Minoan and Mycenaean element in Hellenic life). .......... 617

Piscine Vy MbseTTI Din ces aha ue octenty een 2 on Sie Tat io Td oe RC adh Ri 28, 128

OMT pila W eS ein eect cia cies al ume a aeie Yad ala I, SomGae k Sep ae pea xi

RpOtaulo many tHeOMeR= - csc). <2, scan Gcetse nan c2 at ecce a ere ee tee 345

Brcomenpes, bureaus.OL Transmittal ls... 2. See. soa de kee ee ee 74,75

PUA er LTANAMISSION Oke ee Sree tS) tno oe ee A A 72.73

Pxectitve commumtice of the Institution.,......2.5.-./. 0.2. 2. <2. .0: eee x

MRpAnsON OF OLLOVer Water, LIMIt Of. 5.6 02 22.2 see sk se eb eee eee 262

Explorations, researches and...............-.--. Spee oe ey ae 7-15, 40, 130, 44-57

F,

Fairbanks, Charles W. (regent)........... Sei el Se ae eS

Fashion, the economic and social ‘réle of (Giemene Ae Ljs one ea eee Pea eee 755

Banyan niOy Ese mca ssm0 <= == SEO BEEBE AH Ores tel ee ne Cee mys Net ema 113

erect LABONIE OI Ni Mia's ake ciara Cie oiaie'n Sin win eRe Re a hones Deen e eee eee 57, 112

Hernia: hoepresentative Scott (regent). -...-..- 202.22 sl sl eee cece ens By 2edee
Feudalism in Persia; its origin, development, and present condition (de Mor-

E22 ong sonpt acting JOB SCR an SBR ag Seat a eer) Sa Rae ah rie mE 579
Fewkes, J. Walter........... S - e E ei. o Bat ee (oN ry ILL
Fiddler crabs, habits of (Pearse). Beep cect er see cay Lek Se Se er 415
Field, Dr. Herbert [SIS u 507 (6 [Se eee 2 Ae Se mea ae AIRE ce = 22
ini oeee COS EVES LGUs THU 105 CO RAE Pa eee ee ee P| 5-7, 121-125
FOTES] Dn Sa 12 015 S10) URS a eR eee Eh 2 112
Pinelias Martine. 252-e8 5.2.22. Reet a2, idicva oe Se neo See 107, 108
fpletireresa COMO MS kon ((HIMIS ot Coe et tesa hele Oo cece a he. cclais 2 wed wwe a eee
Beaneete SOM er ee Soc oscpre te ele ofeic Oe cio leieiesise Jsic soe: akon ae ns be see LEH
Ford, James (the fundamentals of housing reform). ......-. BE tea ty oh 5'5/|
Foreign depositories of United States governmental documenta. RPA eee it: 69-71
Ge SMN IEC HMM DUIAINS Lessa cies ecin na init s die eno he ale ce cidews cient Beare teen ee 8, 16
GIA LEN DES ge Se on 12133; 91, LOG Pa
LEAD GLUED Ola eiy dO JAE ae ge ne a a ge rc xi, 54
PivGcren@ Mables Mush acta acide oe Sec aw Slate sid n= ioe 6 word os ayo bate ROM OO RON
rote Wearrecon Gar pata, Wrens vescice esse an bos le Son ee. Oe Ae 56, 58
LATA) 5 OL TES ASS 28g 0206 WI) 710) OP eee elt Si 10, 27, 39, 129, 130
ruthinpaarn, Cron. Arbo .2 2S se. eden kG os acl +S 22 Po lc Ee Beene aaa 23

Gr
RNIN ees meee ee ae tee Re tert eT ad ee Sg es ce 109
Garrison, Lindley Miller, Secretary of War (member of Institution)........... K
SEIS LES LES uncieette Se JES BI Bie 2 se ne ea sem are et 134
Seria Teme mee Pee Dayar A aS eS 2s Oe adic. ooh aepba dee eee 57, 61
oare mao Din ere ae MPa ue Ub hee 8 a en geo xi
Geological collections in the National Museum.................-.------------ 4]
history of the walnuts and hickories, notes on the (Berry).....-..-. 319
SERIES GEE TSE Sc ae DU i ng a eR et 9

DVEN PaNITINCOU NS LALOR oe er sole a se oe Sec un henca el. cence cee 4)
796 INDEX.

Page.

Geologic history of China and its influence on the Chinese oe (Black-
weldercs ss. ctcse BPE PRa Retin Sime ME a Seraph  in'D)
Geology Sat eleantaines: eoadieee IML is 7 SUR So aie 8, 16
Geology, Twelfth International Congress on...............--.----2-2---2-+-ee 23
George Washincton Memorial Building: rar ro. a. ee. So ee ee 24-26
ATOTSOH, PATINA D's oasis tetaieisie is sae as el cree gn Slee ee og 112
Gidley, James Walliams.) 320522205 2. Bas oO eee oe ee 106
Guibert Chester Gs 3.3). ae. gs ee te ee ee xi
Giltitian Rev; Joseph Ae. 8 iss ks Se ee ee Soe ot ee 6 2 ee 61
Gril Da Lancey.: secs Seo sk So ee ae Pe OE Se Da ee xi, 59
Gill SD rs Theodore Nise te ee ee Ne ea a 98
Guman, Dr Daniel Cortss.sis20 2 snes 295 Gs eas aoe ae aoe ea aes Eee 3
Gilmore; Gharles W./2.. os. 2.-. 6200s sy Se hes ee
BepBet, 0 To, oe dae 105, 106
Goldsmith, J. S.. Mee ge lawns Lins BOTS ae Sawyer xi
Conia, bards Bee seid et TU 38
Gracie, Alexander (iwanty years’ Peele rota ‘consteuction) NE Se eGoy |. tel
Gray, George, (regent)... Deca aes) Sale Ge eels Loo bles x, 2; 132, 136, 137, 139
eer erence a) hee ae CR ce ay one eee Le.
Porrliiiconant OM coven ot xi, 103
Gurley Joseph Gees 22.0225 Foo sse2. oh we ks: Ye Oe bes ose et eee eee

Habel, Simeon (bequest). -222) 2-82 2-2 2.82 2s econ ween onion imme nnine ee
Dele ReS petri hh gd RE Oe ea eee a emi GeSoane SSeS od 24
Hageslor: Missiose eo) shaolin eo. oe ee ee ce ee oe es oe ae eee eee
Halbert, H.S.. NIA SRS os See R kaa ease Ae ld eee oe eee ee 58
Hale, Dr. Gearget... ok Gs Sips te a EM SP i Oh 24.

The cena aud nin aa sree een ee Oe ee 145
Hamilton, James (bequest)... Seipibne bie grote SenOe oon Ba ein ee elie
onder ea ee 134
Handman Alaska S@res),. 62.20.6024. 6.2 p25 bons ei. bas A eee ee ee
istrriman® Mrs s HH SSR Ue oS ie os SD Wess Les eo tea te cee eee
DSR gua oy) 6 bh ig gl GEER RRL ee Pee eee een ESAS ces clss ease
Risrrineton (Si tP sero becteic oe steer eso Sep s)ae fo na te ae
Hasse); Hermann Edward -0:22 5 6 25-)-.)-5/55 22 22 so -enae as Se Seles oe Se
Hay Oliver Pott Sh. sass 03 Seed olen 2 2 PN sb ee ils eo
Ree Se Re 2 107
Hedley, Charles. . Ne ciel th he a) aa ale Ge ww eiloik! 2 Seley en ee IOC ee
Hele-Shaw, H. 8S.. tas wb a Ry wearer
Hellenic life, the Minoan and Mycenaean Blemnenta in Warnes : 617
Heller, Edmund. . siepate Srcteis.ss s 9, 10, 105, 107
Henderson, John B., Bn cS ar. We ebeete eee re “2, 32, ‘35, “40, 84, 125, 132, 133, 137, 139
Henderson, Junius. ....--. BAS eee & . 56, 57, 58, 112
Henry, Joseph (first Seeresry, i te Institution. a ha Re oe Pe 23, 24
nn endear ae Ba tA Te ae NO 2 a ee a
Hess, Frank L., and Eva.. Combe ee twee Sete cone eae Ree eae eee ee ee ea
Hewett, ideale ve paid 0 WSR oe SUES SSS AG PA ae pt Sa
Hewitt, J. N. B.. YS es 22. Xi, 61,52, 6z
Hickories and walnuts, n notes on. the geological histone of the (Bercy). ee ms ||
Higginson, Col. H. L.. cd SoS ae SEES oboe eee ane ee ROS eee ee
Hill, Dr. Leonard. . Beare yess ate tl GAN, ile
Historical Studies, International Congress cf. ite 1. Ee
INDEX. 797

Page.
Hjort, Dr. Johan.. rae CE ER i EOL eee 24
Hodge, F. W. (ethnologist in charge): Se Spee eee team i i, 18, 23, 44, 57, 62,111
report of......... Utes eer: A cae RS ane age Nat | 44-62
Hodgkins, Thomas G.. Se Spee (railed ne Ven 31 ts Ae ee ane Oe
Hodgkins fund, medenrchies onder. : sets ui se ey ogee
Hoerns, M. (the earliest forms of human habitation: and their TlntiGn to the gen-
praudevolopnient of civilization). 2o12 9. So6 a. fo Oo. nae ae odbc cee OT
Hollister, Ned.. minjetn wilvle! wlal'slnlinin tele nlafetat= Sd O8 Dace Go ooo SE - 11, 40, 106
Holmes, Sgallern EL Gena ae epee ican Up ferent OY a 23, 55, 112, 136
“SLULSI AML pte eC AR nape gee Ra Ee RECESS fete vee UPON ee Se eR MRI aE 60
BAER NY ALU claro cain creel Wiel nae We aie salsa ue mee se ees ae ce ee ix
iHanrinp. retorm, fundamentalsiof (Ford) 202 ~ - <2... se doe foche dome oe oe 741
Houston, David Franklin, Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution). x
LOI TITRE SEER OTS Ce aes ES Se oe ne pL ee Pan Re rea Ee mes eT xi
Peek AWATCS Sf Sata ee Weel Sl ves ebees Se se0 xi, 12, 13, 23, 57, 106, 112, 132
The most ancient skeletal remains of man.................... 491
Human habitation, the earliest forms of, and their relation to the general devel-
Gomentorcivaliaign(LHOCrROS). 6500. 225 boc occ cose dees yeu eee 571
Hummingbirds, experiments in feeding (Sherman)........................... 459
EREPRETOM A NE iets cheaters yeni siete uns tas Ute Neen Ne aa 109
Pieter MAME WOLUN: sc 2c laces aad cc's Se ooo se Sates ese leew oe 109
PeecHTnBO Rm CHarles) Uetoes. iS 5 \scae ds ok cet See POONER IES AE eee Ome 137
Hygiene and Demography, Fifteenth International Congress on..............- 23
1
Peeperial suunsin MURSUM = 7 252.2). 218.0 SEs) We es 24
indians. American, researches €aMong. .......-.-2-5- 2. 1.82.2... sues ee 48-57
handbook of American......... web ec ele ai clonal Set te ns
Industrial collections in the N ational Musoain. pera an aid. ash Strs e ps See ee a 38
Interior, Secretary of the (member of the Institution)...............22.22..... x
International catalogue of scientific literature, United States Bureau of....... xii,
1, 7, 18, 33, 34, 101-103
International Exchanges. ........... Sean lieve Oat ree a viel 6183053
TEPOUU = a sesieie ate, ce sicicisinisicta a= a) ole nr elcizsa ee Re Se een Gey
BAER Ouse eae ec aels a elte SNe Mca’ i ee, eae ee xi
a:
Seana RECS IEON oS ois ius Sh tinin de De tiL ak sek ae nade cama weenie ames 113
CTS TRS TCI LADUE Lio) dl 1s eID a ag aes REL ee REE a 23
Jaumann, Gustav (modern ideas on the end of the world)................-..... 213
RR ITU Tenge LECTIN) Ge SIRS ae gh aera pag 134
LU degadace Se tceGe eel eee! COLIN iG kailangan barepin aR ueS Se So 108
DOR CGrea nC OMONGMh emma heat ha hc) 0 ick Lc oon Shi Pee 115
Perelman witty O) san ebenn sn ™ SW uee eee ee... ob oa nce Sey ee ee eae 108
Peres man rl Dapsatane eer. game No See ee ae 21, 22
K.
Rc cMMIN OTTER IMMUNO sake Seite 2 es aks se eelan So pat ue ee 5
Reraene nor mira iee ieee tis ee er Co ea lS tale 109
Kanokopi, K. (Shintoism and its sienificance)...../....-..22.../-....222.2.- 607
Rapiovae enol Mee meaeh me kk ead le: Be ee 24
Gel rn ete eee ere wee ts ee ee ei nee 100

Keller, H. G., and J. J. Macleod (the application of the physiology of color
WARIOME Sey POCORN Pete uae Sk oe ee ee 728
798 INDEX,

Page,
Goleoy, Prof. Francis’ W 5... -2222-(..0-2 2 poste ge toe eee eee 136, 137
PEON MOA] iP Bie oe = aeons go oe ios ala nr sito ie Sr RO ARE Be eR NS 48) 134
oi observers; researches of the...355 2-5. <2. So eee ed ee eee 170
Weves Charles: Bing fei ohhns Be SNe aoe ne te ep eh ited ache aaa ee 108
Mayes Piranieis |S COU c= yee alee aide i tee oe 28, 39
Kane) ahplats sch decd 2 Sa Fes OL AR eee ern 2a ee 134
Ritne: Allen Marshall... ..-52.00. .22 Nos eke Sea ee oA ee 112
Memon tom: Bs eo son Sa SAS, ah i ics ar aan teens © ha ae 109
MornhancserAeidtey To <2 8ccc.ul Lbs OBS eee Ae ERS eo cee 14
Moeher Driv bits: tec Ao ape ceiien tee Ma. eee yor AUS) ot hc yada oe 56
L.
Labor, Secretary of (member of the Institution).........-.........-.-...--.- x
IGMROUKe AL ont on Foci cee eee es eee eee peor er ee eee ee 109
wa Plesche,Prancig’ 22. 2532-2 s . Sn nt as Ee ke ee xi, 52, 53
Teslemiand. «Che sno oe ccs sea mae Scie la ee eret rasa eer er eee 108
Lane, Franklin Knight, Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution)... x
Tancley, DES. Bein. en 2os on.n eae eae cee = ae ease eerie 7, 21, 22, 32
Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory. .......-- Stow ils Uh ieee 1, 7, 8, 14, 19, 136, 138
TEPOTON Esco. ee ie ere ee ee 115-119
Ban levemnod al ce acne Mes. oak See ee Beene 2182 128 @p, 188
Mancley memoir.on mechanical flight. .:...--. 2-2) 25-- 222s ee
iangley memorial tabletec 2-2: taasq. ees ae te ieee ania ee 3
aes Outen Wee bbs) tote) Ree ee ee re ES Me EEE SS )s ces ments So. LZ
hauten-“BenmnhOld:s. 35206 bac stee seten ood akties ae eee 109
Eeaimold, the formation of (Coville). .....0....- 22 ho 8 So ee 333
Wega, Milas. oe sala ees ie ais Scie ereenel no eo cieke as BSE Ae earls tee ee xi, 60
Biecerms Lies eineris occ nl woo er Ae oe = Seyi ee alone) = ee ee eee 109
Beerendre Ane ets se nec eerie ont eI ee ee 108
| DF 292) 6(6 62 a ee er ee ae Se a Mee hy BET P32! Lo ae 108, 109
Welaridiy Walden: 3. bets. See. SOS eee 2 Ne a ee Ine alee eee 112, 113
ibaswiban aeremenelG Wo Socc cist ci). feck ses ote eee oo see = eee eee xi, 105
Hibrarian*assistant, of the Institution=.......2522:..- 2. -22 2-22 eee x
Pibiary of the (nshtution moe k gece eek ie aie ee eee eh ee 19, 20
TOPOL ON oe abs Sie se eine eee oe er ‘eee
Meat wave lene as Ofe fen ce)-lsnc ot. Sa emoe er oie ne la 175
iindleys Hanlowasesicse = se oee,2 - ae c/n a eee em 22. koe eee 112
iRodce, Henry Cabot (recent) =... = sis) atigee oe ein ae X, 2, 125, 132, 137, 139
Poncitude determination at sea! -i- 2-4 eee ee eee 201
isyman, Dr. heodore..../. 22-06 - sees 2 ee eee ea a ee 11, 27, 39, 130
M.
McAdoo, William G., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institution)... x
McCormick Brederick 40°. snr. pnt ein eine = Rees cee ee ete ee 136, 137
McBermott, 2. Alex. 2226 22S He Sole ee eo acl ee 108
Melzitosh, Jamesi ie Ws.52 ok ee eats wean Ssinwc =< Sens hate ee ee 16%
McReynolds, James Clark, Attorney General (member of the Institution). .... x
MacCurdy, DrGeorge Grant: ooo2 soe ae ot ten ee eee 23
Macleod, J. J. R., H. G. Keller and (the application of the physiology of color
Vision: to- modern art).005.S ess Ha Ee eo oe ee eee eee Tos
Macnamara, N.. C2222... 52 5 hod wi teenie = - eee oles ele ee ee ee 108
Magnetism, the earth’s (Bauer).........----- Ee Seer MN er es Se 195
Macneton, theese to. Oi. ees ce cate rate ee eee renee es eee 233

Macnets, the earth and sun‘as\(Hale) 2)... J ociereis casa tee ee 145
INDEX.

Maonews, EGnry Ss WOE ON .).22:..5cu eee. La ey
1c ULC TS] SR 6 ics ae a PRO Pe ie eee eet
Mankind, the redistribution of (Dickson)....................
Man, the most ancient skeletal remains of (Hrdlitka)........-
oy TENG lL BS a ga Cea Pe a ep
Marconi, Gee) 52 ssee sae Se apna ete Rena Sear ees reds Praca ee

Marine poustruction. 20 years’ papers in (Goes.

138

Page.
SN oe Ph ei An ye 24
EPR tate ee hg 105
Sete nner, Fone» 553
BEM REA ane et 491
Le ee ek Esa 107
107
687

Marshall, Thomas R., Vice President of the United States (member oe the Insti-

“TESTE oh RTO a aie Ne a OR EN Soot eee na wh ECTS Vara |

Marsh, ©. Dwight. -
Martin, Mrs. Ada Be

PR ONire wesearchoaof = SINS Rete a ae aS RP AE, Bt De Sone eae

LD SRGTI.. Wey ABEND 2 ae eee aot eee

Maynard, TCI Vd de Nd RY nN ICAI a SE :
Mead, William PROMI yak elnn nic hae. Sone er
VUSTRTIEICS EN cntets eM. Tea oe ea a a a

Mearns, Dr. Edgar.A .. aS SaaS
Mechanical flight, ae ae memoir on.
Members of the Institution...

Merriam, Dr. C. eee haa Mie noc eda ae Oy Pee
Merrill; G. P. (head curator, National Museum)........-.........-..-
RVUERLC RECN Sj 2 Pen cis ae wet Ee oroj ate nin cS eoiog we aisles’ ss Saree eeiniete Smee
RGF Be ENRON ES. taps dn icivs ox acim aind eee camintice de geinte see lanlan

Memongrlons George Von Lj oo. ls ss oath ete ae es ee oe bbe doee
RUPSHOIRGTEM ETNA Sa c~ te ce So esas oo ws axes ameceecldese

IIL Sys i ie Shs ne SRL Ree Sh
Perr ee ye
MeN ibeRET RE TOL AGL Us, AU © a Sint Ls crates om eb hheiatnmec Me osime tame Sela eee

EG Or Oe so sicc i212 32

Minoan and Mycenaean Bleweat an Hellenic cit, “be (iva yi 22 oe Sa
Miscellaneous collections, Smithsonian. . Kite stearetieioacc ate eee aoe
Mixter, ee ee
Mongolia, anthropological studies in Siberia and...........--.-.-.--
UGH SAMOS ee Sia oars sos Sele e aa)auiae mit aliens soa deka ibe Soy Ue ae
ICTR S07 RC 0°01 ee en en ST
MLC Vay UNAMUS Nr sais! ic cite aa aul ala wince Gateiecinde enieulae oajcie cd wis eine Cansei
MTOR EESCEEIONT (let aeeee es eys lan Cera t el eT So1scc Ges 52s cleat ek ea
NOUMSEECE SEER Les Sonn eS cep Sa anya vic ae. oe Se Aden eins Raaw ee awe Ree
RECO AL CRP perc tia es a a ho a OE) oa ee 2 aap i eae a
WU LECH OU Naver Bor See Cher vis) sioft win ca se We meiae Se wieue aye Mave eaten eae

N.

Naples zoological station, Smithsonian table at...
START UAtG UOTE She ee a ee ee ee ea
National eee of Sciences, semicentennial meeting ae

Reticle arr Na
National Herbarium, publications of... /........ 2.2... .02----5e0--5

see oy,
106

mah a Ee ek 60
Peas te ean

_ 98, 106, 108, 111
xi
137
clutter an ce ae eee 135
- 10, 39, 106, 129

16
x
14
xi, 19, 23, 105
eines 8
. 15, 136, 137
BEA rene Hits)!

x i, 50, 51, 57, 60, 61, 111
ciara eon Se aL OO
xi, 106, 110, 111
24
eremlod!
Soca eee
16, 104-107
27, 40, 131
Sees ee |e
= Ki 4g
Sea wo ele
56
113
See 58
56
113

14

108

Sse 24
_ 28, 41, 42,128
Li joe occ eo ply,

National Museum). 2 5-05 -.-c'.. 2 Xi, 1,2, 6,7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 20, 26-28, 36-43, 128

(ee as xR fen ASS

- 19, 28, 43, 97-99

pepe Se es see 16, 17, 18, 19, 28, 42, 110, 111

DOD Otsu persone oaey es ayereysee apeiaie) «foci ep ateie Stole Rialola re a tare sie fats mess
SEUSS Se oe ice eco oe ee A gp SE oN

use of natliforuin.

ee ee ke ee he ag

.. 36-43
xi
133
28, 42
800 INDEX.

Page.
Navy, ie ha of the ae of the Institution). . . spiel aerae ie a eg x
Necrology. . w lain 0. 'nie id wiv Lila wha elnigiaie tale 4E)e) = esa aehale mie-alera orig se eet oo en

Nelson, E. We. gS ,lom SG (28 we cee apee panes MER EI e ee eee
Meariann. Koliccs...st.-.) CeeeIRye ely aint pen 57
Newberry Hon. (0 oe ces cea bsee em bn cian ae ee ee ee Sl

INGtObe: MnarO. 32 season ind CN ET
Nitrates, the anuiactore a fon the pimoeshece (Genres ed eee 359
Nocturnaliradiation, observations’on=). 62: 2.0.56 secne.5 6-28 2. eee 13
Nomeuclature;:Z00logical < . -e nso see cate voc antes bee sees See eee Oe
Nordmann, Charles 22). 25.0.2 eda caine sseetaeet easeee eS eo sale 109
ETNA Pg Goes, ieee ele intel aie miad ew iajak au lls tel ceuie Se oe ene oe 134
O:
Oberholser (aarry-C. 2. ote-2)Meeeeed cao beaten cee a 105
TUTE MMR TIEC Bd aren Shere pavaie ci oI diss als, hihetnin oh am ial ane are Remy ort YS 109
Oiicers or the Tnsttwhou 2 o-oo ec tee ee haloes Soke ee ee ee x
Gil alms on water-and mercury. (Devas)... ....<--2000- -. cae ee 261
Orchid cultivation, the development of, and its bearing on evolutionary thee-
mies (COstamiany ue ee he ee ead alee ar ait eee ee Mie ee woes 845
EE
Packages sent and received by exchanges. .......-...--..-.22.--2-2-2---. be 63
Pahlow. hid wan Wiss Ses e ds cee ee ee ee eee ie nie Sees ee ee 113
Panama Canal Zone, biological survey of the ...............-.......-. 12, 18, 16, 124
Panama, coolocicall survey 08-32. size ss et ace 5. 1h ee I ee 9
Pastor WWallyis ceo: cet eel trends cok Set ek Vee 2S Ens ee ere 109
Peabody Dr Wharles. <i. losoosie ec eee eats Se ena 23
Peanse,-A\:S.\(habits of fiddler-crabs) <2). sco. 2.22 22 ae ee eee 415
Pepper, Representative Irvin 8. (regent)..-...-...---....------206--2-05- x, 2, 125
perkins sGeorve Wo: 226i i sls setce tet e tks Doge cea echeh ees ese ee 134
Perkine iG... ¢: Sis cette Muda: Stereo eeleia eulelee Sasa = setter Nle meen er eae ene 134
Perret clrank Ave 2.2 eck seh shee Us eke ie One OBER ee Bee ee AAA 109
Persia, feudalism in; its origin, development, and present condition (de Morgan) 579
Perimpor latin tis cae suse eens ANOS a See LIS) Lon eee 113
Peruy anthropological atudies in. 2 2.¢.: 2222.8 22Jse 222 Ssh ada eee 13
PHT Pow PN see ce ees PS i eae NE dee ale ee ee 107
Phippalenry sett ie ies sees ks Sekt sk ae. Rina Soe ee 134
‘Photoelectric ellects tess eee nS USL be OL eS Sel ae ee 239
Physiology of color vision, the application of, in modern art (Kellerand Macleod) 723
Biper (Oy Verse ero es eee eke ok ee ORS Se Sl Seek 2 oe ee DEE
Pinnets, ‘reaction’ of, /on the sun (Purseuwx): i502. 2.2222 222 ee eee 159
PUaSKe thw seas cwicws as oh ters awiwe o sieleia aleera inte ralaic) ac ale ayaa ole Soe eee ae 108
Pomearé, Hoenrd 2.25 cscs sec cae cartels wae os oars el oe ee 109
Poors George W (bequest). 2.0 hacia. nmr saree se ec ae ae eee 4, 5, 126, 127
Postmaster General (member of the Institution)..................-----...---- x
SL 0-1 Tah a ge Mv ng il 1 ce a og ah wi Bein eee hey ee 108
Brain, Diet. Cols Die ore oe a eee cc le coi cae ee 108
President of the United States (member of the Institution)..............-- x, 24,116
Ermine allotments for...) -c cscremesae plete e ee nlc oon ree eee 18
Printing and publication; committee on! 22222 2 5- =. «2 =. eee 18, 114
Publications of the Institution and its branches..........----.---- 15-19, 28, 33, 42,
57-60, 91, 104, 107-110, 111, 112
TOPOTL ON ee. o hace See ee 104-114
Puisdux, Po... et cheb ok he ca. eee a ee ae ae 109
INDEX. 801

R. Page.
Rabot, Charles (the whale fisheries of the world)................._-.-.---.---- 481
Era gactiione ime asunOmMents Of SOLA? 2. sicli o Meee uk WES een cede mew Sima este 182
1 Seri Baye 2] BE pl SP a a PRN ta YOON MO PSR gees Mie y Ty at tn 9, 16, 129
Rainey African expedition. ....... SET Ae ics MP aAOAS MMI Aes ey PN 9, 10, 16, 129
LS STSTTIES SoU ST ee cpa kL et en ee eRe rn) UE 107, 109
Rathbun, Richard (assistant secretary in charge of National Museum) -....... XK. Mae
17, 26, 43, 111
FO POUG Ose eras aoa ea ate ET Se eye et ae Se 36-43
J RESTON, “UN Bes SSeS gan i ae RE TRS ea ENT Mn nT SRN CORD cee ae 10
Ravenel, W. de ©. (administrative assistant, National Museum) ........------ xi
Reaction of the planets onthe sum (Piiseux).....-1 2. 2252. 3. ce! 159
TESOL CRON ors Pa RT IR acl ag ee IR EPS ree an eee] ERA Se oo ee
Redfield, William Cox, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution). --. x
Tes STE S07) TY Dre baa) Oe ar Maga ut a x, 1, 2) 7,8) 21,26, 30, uke
POROCCR GING SHO las eek ee Sa ane Vee hee etree 125, 139
FEO OI Rep te eee roe GAs aN. Me 2 Ne eee eee eee 121-128
RetdaMrss Winttelawess)<s.-2.-..--0.5--- ee ae Sen eS Ske Re Ne BRD, Ses 134
Ieveremvsevo)., dD ed Bee ets Ree a ed lf eR c/n a amen ce ne eee en 24
Peer MCHGOL GORA OMe ences. facia ke hee ee SORES pe acer eo 3, 4, 126
Puese anne anc exp lOTAONSGYies eo oS 8 oc. hee hoe dlec we eos suis 7-15, 44-57, 40, 130
Resolutions mmemory of James §. Sherman..........- 2.2.0.2. 5542s seen 34
Rhees, William Jones (bequest).........-..-.--- Sn seh ye ate Le eee arene ss ae 6, 121
Richards, Joseph W....- SAS vie Ae ee RARER ENE eae Lem toyed ote 2 107
Panera ineodoravWalliam s 206250048. Soe eo ee aw aoa 107
"Ei LET COVEN lel Dal Ore SN ee ee eer ane SU naene een Rees el LSND 98
uemnerneENOD CGI e et Che tse Clos Uk tg nes, ago yoy ot snr peau aens xi, 98
Ripple marks (Epry)-.....-.-.-- SUR. Spleen ee Pee NETTIE ape SoC TE 307
FRUDIDIC LESS SAVVIS eS ee GP A ee ee eel 56, 57, 58, 112
EORERO MAM AIMON Awe is cates Met idee eyo elie chem NSS) Lea oo ae UN ele Se 113
EPIPIUBO EBC HAMM hoe aoe sat tts LEE ON ead io LG ey i Be a ns ee
Rock Creek, new bridge over. ....... SPinie 52S 716 gn epee ee eR aa ed aaa £8 7, 32, 85, 86
LEDS E ELM G GO Fae BS a2 0 (0 ee a 9, 10, 16, 26, 129, 133
iootaon. With ces oes...) sb. e Bue See SAR Se Se Se st ae es ae gee 134
ENS MIRE eee sors ee eee re ete a OM APIO yay he aaNet es i
SPE SLOVENES OSB REE de aC a ea ee Egan Ces eee Se 135
EO IPMBI RW Gul bere eae ae teres ey te ene Se ete nei dae a )st., yk Oyen ema 58, 61
ELC) d Sie LEAS ogg 8 ae) RS a eee ne eS See Se ee Ld
TRS SNM, TERUG ane BAS NACE ACERT a oe ey ar GEIS eh Rene aO peu opine SAAS, SSE 40
Ss.
SENENOURG Ly AWM pL ines sae cate cae Nas gad eo ee eae a Ee ae i
Sapiiebichwanrduenn sees ec os en ee Se etic: Ay oe a ea a ee 109
SCIRINHE, dBOOO dB 5 BS seul ere aera ee eg eee eek a aa SuPer be rte Oh eet ae AL 135
St NGOI CIENTS TOROS Sos Skeeter ee ee ered ee a Ree Ley a a ee ee eee 20
Siclowsfrers, JD ye WA Nowihe- aay oes aes a St aeee ae ARI Aer ce RU RE Lon bad a a 24
MOSCATCHES Oise se ees seo ick ye AL et ee Re 174
Scud clones Nee xeepmnc ree eens ie Bane CRY ago TA Me an Ae eS Lye ee xi
Heckemey-ob the smathsonian- Institution. 22. 6-222 56 oe ees eee tee eee oop ab
8, 23, 35, 41, 98, 105, 106, 107, 116, 127, 132, 137, 138
Sei acura escort cee Se el cr idee al oe corte ee eter ae ee 135
Oe TE eer Sa ae MeN met RS nes Cady Hels delat miei aise 109
STASI ee Psi TW GNOUYSTOFE, 9 Mtegla) a 2 Sa ee 1 HO RU CAMP AEA 113

44863°—sm 1913——51
802 INDEX.

Page
Shepherd, E. S., A. L. Day and (water and volcanic activity)................ 275
Sherman, Althea R. (experiments in feeding humming birds)................. 459
HONING D, GAMES oc. ose lke Selec’ oes tee RS ee eto ete 2, 34, 125
Shintoism and its significance (Kanokogi)..................-.-...... eee 607
SHUUMINCOn, "Gi Wie a. ous aca acaias seein ee eee Baie ote nde 2eles oe ee xi
Siberia and Mongolia, anthropological studies in...........-.....-...-..-..- 12, 132
MEberanex nection, Wayman cee nach «cine stems wee aaa een. eee 11, 39, 130
Skeletal remains of man, the most ancient (Hrdliéka)........................ 491
BS PIU G YT: AMUN Sescas ote fe fae ane yas, ms te BR ae eta) See Re ee ees ee C2 ieee 60
BENTO ca ca re ca ee el Al may ke ace een ee xi
SSMMUE DE Grom MMVOL isc! arcia = sinparate Se sincnis Siate op Mumia cree eee es 109
Smibhson (DeGuest)= ool ace cec ose ede cine a selenite aes ae i ee ee 5, 121
Smithsonian Institution, establishment... 23.2 ce = +2 see see ee eee i
CxeCculiVe COMMIMEC. 2.2. 6 a sen ee ee ee x
MMANCES ./.75 Sl cos cae teeth): sa eee ae eee 5-7, 121-125
table at Naples Zoological Station................... 14
Smoke, fume, and dust abatement, problems in (Cottrell).................... 653
Solarconstant Of radiation (ois coe ae ania eign aerate pe 87, 88
Spwerhiy sATtHUT eG s.0 s/o. sors senate te mnce sete See eee 40, 132
SON ERENT CAS 72 0 ley fe old ee RARE PEGI sen OF. co) 107
Svicwinored beat O a1" Uke ene eps aes) eS hanes ee ere mS nee are nal. MIA Sa. 135
Sie avo ka gag 254 Uh a AB Fg Ala EE eh ies Bs SNe eet Le - 108, 111
Siar Gistances OF the. - 220255. feces toch beet aebeeese alc eee 183
Sismopangled banner. 2.2525 soe eos d sss doc oces oo eee 28,39
State, Secretary of (member of the Institution). ...........-..........-...-- x
BROCE, WER seenie oe mera mre Ciontete dra Cie ne ale ye Atlan e/ ee apn tia Sie n/a rm 111
Stejneger, Leonhard (head curator, National Museum)..................-- xi, 19, 22
Shenouse, sVVAlbCl sss case cis cee ae een oe ceed ee re ~59
Stevenson, Matilda, Coxe.. 2222 0.205 2 nS e oe he ee ee xi, 49, 58
Stiles mn Ward wells, 2 nccco fc s0 anaes omnes pelle ee a as
Sillwell Marvaret -Binsham’..). 04. 22.i S252. oases So a 56
Stone, Senator William Ji. (regent) ° 2... ..--o 222525 eee eee ee
Sirsacht. Willard Da ac hee. erie = ox He anes ete Sn =the eee ae 137
Sitatton, KJ. My, researches Ob: 0-03 22.222 scc52- cise. Sees tees See We
SSETAUUIS ESTOQUE © 08 0 oi ces soc apna ots e Saks e eiare.e aoa stele mimes a eg 135
ii hak O56) aS teres een Cre een Ere Serco GS Des 135
Sree ater rares gl Des) Deke iar ee Cea Set eee mo sos okay ASS: 27, 40, 132
Streeter’s exploration i IDBOMECOA. Jess sek cleo as 26 het oe eee ee eee Ort

Subterranean river, creating a, Sao supplying a metropolis Fh mountain
WAGE ( Walker aGG DONG) 2 = )thee =p eile Se cteceinrc = eee oan eee 709
San, earth and, as mapnete|(Hale)i sooo. f2 f25 hse 5 ee en ee ee 145
Sun, reaction of the planets upom the (Puiseux)_~7. .2-..--..+.1--. -2 eee 159
Sin spots and climates... 2222... ..o4es" SOUL ois Ube Se Ae ae eee 33
a the nature solu seers. oo ke oe ee ee ee 178
Sun, the variabilsty ofthe sla5 22 ozs ieee eee te ae eee 88, 90
Swathon, WOH Bieccccac ol ccc Sak cc tee ee Re. Si i eee x1, 48, 49, 58

AM:

Tract, AW LUT: Ele. Metta ry Bo ie ec te le a Sees Nee 2 ed fas he ae dete ea aoe 23
Raw lore Wranke 2s 2S 2 ee nd tet NODE Suis 25d vet See 109
Renmiperley,, His W."W.icecs 222 ae bse os. ek eee cinelos a eee rr 113
Tenney, Dr. Charles D........-. wip 21S) s wie Die ales a wpe Neh acca ae 137

Thompson, D’Arcy Wentworth........ wi aug Bo as Bia BS pA ee) a el ne 108
INDEX. 803

Page,

PO AZOH, cA Mine ee Met a Cie NR ae ea ERR etter tS epee nde Sa 108

Transmission of energy, wireless (Thomson)..................20.2.----------- 248

Treasury, Secretary of the (member of the Institution).......................-- 24

True, Frederick W. (Assistant Secretary in charge of library and exchanges). . .. x

xi, 18, 24, 75, 100, 105, 106

PEPORMOLS Fle ss Sees he OS ae EN A de 63-75

COLE GI, TINGS 2073 SS a gaa A eI eo cl gO gee tame ae Y tralia 113
U.

Usher, Roland G......-... sores Shel ts iba Seca ta teat nN aa (oe Mow tas these ee a 112
V.

atue:ol birds to, man.(Buekland) 12.22. 2505. 22nd Pec nece see 439

Waal hy kes nbanls 6 Sinks wieccises ciewiiorac oe seis el eA Lee SOS Feo 113

Pade aOft y.utine. Work: OF (BYUNL).. = 85502015 soared inna ee ee ee 767

Maa ONNG NOM MeN S OE oS soak elk ot en Noes sows ee ee 88, 90

Peumeieaien lr Mem EAIEO oy. a 8 ca, bn ssn dee Seat eee ee ee ecks ie ee 40

Di rele InONG EMORY = of sees Soe sea Sarees See Pe ae 5 ee 110

Vice President of the United States (member of the Institution)................. x

Voleanic activity, water and (Day and Shepherd).........................-- 275

Melcamic.eruptionsjand climate...) 002 .8t UE oe 33, 90, 91
W.

Walcott, Dr. Charles D. (Secretary of the Institution) .... x, xi, 8, 23, 24, 35, 41, 98, 105
106, 107, 116, 127, 132, 137, 138

RCT 2 RD Se A ae nee LIER SP roicea eM reat) ian Resse yee ek 2) 107
Walker, J. B., and A. R. Bond (creating a subterranean river and supplying a
metropolis with INGUNCARN WALCBIE. oc acciege nce Akt oe eters ae eee 709
Walnuts and hickories, notes on the geological antes of the aes Beeps ree: 319
War, Secretary of (member of the Institution). . =k Soe eee ae Ue x
YO BUSDTS TENG) GANS Ne 2 cea Se ee ee ene a ee BIO SO 109
Water and volcanic activity (Day and Shepherd).................2...22..... 275
“ENTE WETTV pCC Yo 0 RA a ao eee capi |! 175
Micaticribinean wUmMIted lates sa % 52 bodies os ok ss tie ca et ee oe Says
i Sera ret One Lusi Gyre ete se OL Me Sh 2 eo ee a 113
Mies indies: archeolocical explorations in’... ......225.2.62% 22 os. goes 45-48
Nialauisheries of the world:(Rabot) 2.326.220.2202. 0 ccss2 keno eke tose 481
Whicher, Prof. George M ................ Rerat erasidinc Sane eae ae 23
Wihieendrew ©) (recent) asec k site en Moke ee Be as 5 2,.1255026
tiem avian eerste a Mino. cls OL Pe Uk wd Vay ee Oa xi
White, Edward Douglass, Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the
Institution) ..... Ee ame ete oh «aoa si Ahecrain. Les ateye eee TR X, 2, 125,132,137
"VVIDEUE ESI BVGIT) gi 50 et Se EN Ne eg Re LP TORE Come ONL pr, |p 137
Pee eae TT Bier yee yee Oe oi. ore ice ba ale ee ee 112
OLE TG! OURS? Seat aly Vans Se eee ee a Pe a gra one ce PEP 113
Peer EPO NATO Leese sia Nios i SO ee OE a Sy ei 137
Rupmerrtmis ley vemertsr cine eh 8 2! OL Seed be es ce axaek ous Seg 57, 112
Waleamel eeblaray ane cerr ne oO ge a ee ee ee 15, 136, 137
Wilson, William Bauchop, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution)... ... x
Wilson, Woodrow, President of the United States (member of the Institution). x, 24
VLU ipa CG eso ge, E012 GNA es SE ie a fe RE BO 56
AGHALSTS IVD Yeo! (Bay 1 sac EA tna NRE Ne 108
Wireless:transmission of energy (Thomson)................0..-.225.2-22.02- 243
804 INDEX.

Page.
Woodward Dri Hi S 32. sco s pee ae ace seins Meee ee 24
Wooton Ovens. cee ances sis <- cae Sse he Re > nee sae eee lil
World, modern ideas on the end of the (Jaumann)................---.-+------- pas
Wright, Fred... Eugene. .:..s6 i523 S44 len Hs Spain sist Gate Ae te, ,. save Motes 57, 112
RVIRESEDE, MOINO es So Saye a ..c"s lee ist mcuenere sia ee ein are ee 21
Wright, Wilbur.......--...-. wb sig S sgt awe ee aa wale bl Aenea 5 Spain chats AA ern ee ee 21
Me
NVeRemOr  Woaliteay ae See coe stg mccepa'sts dye! sea ee rayne fe ete nie ate eee ae 123
Z.
VOD COS gs) INOS A SA ne a RE Pe a a ie MPP CAs Se | 109
OVI Lee ee coe MOORE, Vets Vieni et nee Ts.) || 128
Zoological Congress, Ninth International...................5-...2-.-te04. 2282 22
Zoovorical nomenclature 2235 fa oe She 2 ee eee | Te ae eee 17,110
Zoological Park, National - 2222.0. --.20.0- 222,24 oe. - i= -2 2 EI eae eae
birGstini ese See) ee Oo ee 79, 81
pita to yo. oy AN POUT ES se aa a 76, 81, 82
mammals ans i tedas as Reh bee ose eee 77,78
RE POrb Onis hese ess ae SENS Ae ae eas eee 76-86
reptiles ims) 2 4.2252... eee ee eee 81
bait Of ec. cules) ak Ee ee xi
VIRREORSTLOL 2b 24 8h 0). Sule. le Dain dy ee 31,83
Zoological station, Smithsonian table at Naples.............-..-------.------ 1

O
' eis

a)
Mie

th

i

*

i"
,

Ne Ee ea ee
r te. agg Rae!
en p a gf SRB
ae a Se
au ¥.
» sci

ts
‘ea @ S26. 8
a4 i! Waa @ Ls.

rt r ss att
at ga ve |

2 > ee - gam e tS % ©
ar eae. Sa, | aN vg Gite aes

_ Le al hag
Bh, Pom som

Lae 4 sis Bey t “a Bek ; if ad
ie ik ae Ne a
ere gt " i a et cL BS
( a Be = nt i ; a =". a aie
ye : % an a, Se, Ponies
Te ARE

edt es Ce
a aa xs 4 3 7

Z a

i i it hy a
a DE aa 4.6. 3.9.3
Be iy 5 =
7 : ( 7 ot i "s ca By
sak ee a a ho if me it E ei
-  aaet f, it ae Ls a ue at ce i m
" ¥ ig le Me ~~ b.: 4 nd

3 ‘ ¢ 5
a - ig an% als’ Se Oe 5
i gd Soe ‘ \ ‘> Ss “= ye r a= D
ae Vga wa Fags Ve tide SF
he : feu © aes at : . ~ a
yi : Seay Sane ia foe Teens dig ay <
3 ‘ i ne ea = . er * - ° s $ ‘i
vagy | ge: Seen gee vk > tae : ee aay go Rae.
ge ee gs ae SMe I Oe, SE
ee ee FR
ee. Bit v = ay P fei
a as F €; ao
iM 1h;
=e

| cae eet aa x

a ele. a.
Le ae nie Lo
ie a a e

© ie “ee Hie

: ‘we ? ot 50:

YRS wertie ne
con

Batak rr,

sete
Rig Phe 4

oe
"ene

