ot e Bd Pe kee
“it J eee TF a # ey J. a

iC be ee B
| 3 : xo a © © fo ¥ eI
sfeteeete com

Bs
Manat is

i xx

a.

psi ep viet 1 gic fe ye fe fs fe
a. me © Le te Te - ‘
ie Xe Se ae de de fe fa 2

DORR Tnee
Sa ae JY ae hy os L Phy Se i i @ 8 &
ey ‘ “ee ‘Gs oO "7 we Zz ee ca Ne de et
soe ie ae te Se ae Ci ‘e te dy oe ye gy eg
ar fo ae Ae We. fe We ie ik ae ae fe ie oe ee de eae
ee Ge dv qe te ae Se te de fe We ie de ie pe le ie i ie |

es

o i Oy Ge 9h ee Me Be aw ve ae fe fe de te qe

) ie Ge ae de te 8s ie ae ge ge Ye ge ae vom ee te
as ae We We Ge oe ew ae. Xe * J a (oO 2, ae

» as ae Ew se ae Be ae te ee ae He,

as oe ee wy ie i Se ae ie

ie ie ae ry as th Ge ye @ ye @ we fe ie je ie @ oe
» Ge ae le ee Oi ee oe 5S ae Sh Ae aN ha "aK ae is as
ae He Be Ge Gs. ia te ke ae ie is ee we Gee Tek
4 ae Re 82 Be he as iy Ge oe Rw Je. a ie ae dee Je eg
Qs Re We Re ie ie Be We Re ie Ye fe qe ds f Je B Aw Y
» oe Qe Re Re Ee ae tw ie te de qe ae fe. Aw Je ee

ie Os Be Be fe ke yw te Gu Qe qe qe Ye Je ae Ae
2 Be Be Oc Be ke Pe Re ke: ge tw hv qe qe qe fe de qe pe.
We Wi Re as Oe ae Be he Ke de Je qe je ge ye qe Je ye ¥
We We Os Aw ae Re Ae Qe te ge fe qe Re ye b fe pe de le
Be Be Gs Ge Be a ay fe ge qe qs a ge qe qe qe ge ye de

) Re Be Ue Ro Qe Be Qe ge ge o. Ye af de de te * je de fy
as as Lia ae ae ye ae ae y ae Lia ‘fe ‘pt qe de. ka 8 et Ue if i

a Ro eS ET

oes soem = = — -
neta a NN EEE a eT TS SSS _ = = - Soe Se ne ee Se EEE
SS oouauauOnunuQuQuaoaaeESSESESSaSaEaeaEaoaEoOoOoOooqqqqqqaEeaESaaaSSaSaSeSSSSaSSSaaaaaeaSSsSSS Sepeeresacgeekserasacequanpeansctansasesasesacustenesenicese aaengnestoe nasa agryenene ne saoenayt a emeqpese eine meet oemeon oecmscoaemeseeeaee eens

Te Ta ee ae en nnmentename ae
eng ne nn Se Ee ae ERA NE eo NR I NN

SE an ne OE CE ET A NR AR EE
a OL OO ee

a

eT COOFOFTOllOlFOO

| ag} ie
) ay H
i) ii

Deo cee ee ee ner

\

HH

f ii

Hit |
i

H '

|

ate
:
Ht

eS

ke

ena reeled saeentinp nati

i
i

. eH ||} us) HT f i tf
aN fos Syne TES |
¢ iy ‘ 5 un Hits ath

NPM eM) TH HIATT

ANerm Ne)

es) AH

ad ih Qi) Hi | i j i
: A Hit TTT

Pa ams Wa ves 2 a
fuse ee ————
BF FF

Sf, fo a*

eo EEE

aay
es

Ua
azn a

ia J “;

u a a 1
: sell Z

Mis

nr

Hii i i
(i ala
ora

Ph ee ne ve hy

oa :

hd Da
,

7
Sed

ts, ve if a
mer A inka ak ae

: | a: Ye;

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4354

Showing the Operations, Expendiiures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1958

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1959

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25 D.C. Price $3.75 cents
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SmirHsonian Lysrirution,
Washington, December 31, 1958.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1958. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary.

II
CONTENTS

Nhistrototiclalse= =o 202 ee BNE OA tel Neha iedl POR EPO 2 Lr Bie ASR.
Generalistatementy 92 5. ee = oe eee ok 2 aT ENS y mee wim isos Es mec eet caer
Bem SEA IIS MIN Cla Gee ees oe ee be ey Mat Mate Gin eIL rem WC eee ee ma
PCW DOUTO OM ROPE tsk es aa Nh Nal Chemise i Mele ps Shs Ble ge
IESITTN ATA COG epee er ee eee URE Me Pe eek a eM eee co ey cre ae Cee

Bio-Sciences Information Exchange___....-._----_--- eye a et ke. dyes

Summary of the year’s activities of the Institution____________________-

Reports of branches of the Institution:
United States: National, Museum_.2.2...-25 2222222 2242 0l6 kas
Bureau of American Ethnology...__-___._._____- eenperer | meee Pune ray
INSTROD INV EICAlb ODSERVALORV2= a2 5s ao a eo Sadie ek oe ee
National Collection of Hine Arts: 2.42". 24-2220 ceeceeee eee ee
reer GallerysoleATion 223 sooo Pt ny egg ek pS a
National Airs Miuseum === 925 2 Soe so ce ARE ROE eM Sco rapes Cae oi
INawionalsZoolopical: Parki. . a. oe oe ee Oe es
GanalcZone BiologicalvAres: 2.24 20s Bae oe Pe ee
Inéernational Fixchange Service... .-L50- 4. S22 jose e ou ee
Nationale Galleryol ATs si 2 si jjoe\ ee ee ee ee we Ie

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents______._____-

GENERAL APPENDIX

fhe stn-sreneray, by Barrington Daniels 222.0222 22 ee
Sun, seaand air by-hoger Revelles 22) 82.) oe ee
Rocketry, by Donald Cox and Michael Stoiko________________- Te ne
Fresh water for arid lands, by David 8. Jenkins____________ epee hee SG
The abundance of the chemical elements, by Hans E. Suess_____________
Earthquakes and related sources of evidence on the earth’s internal

SISUCHUTE Ay Wes Dullen 2 foes 2 eee eee Mise kU a pes SECU
The Darwin-Wallace centenary, by Sir Gavin de Beer__________________
Does natural selection continue to operate in modern mankind? by

Theodosius Dobzhansky and Gordon Allen_____________ bg ere Aa ds UAE ee
Mhetecology of man, by Paul B. Sears-..--_-2--.... 2-2 pee ey oft, satay ees
Bhemseasouter by Warl W. Kenyon. 5. 2220 Us yk
Screwworm eradication: Concepts and research leading to the sterile-male

methods yaluerhs loniplings. 262. oo cee ee ee
Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Pee by

vical cl oil sais lara Ges el, Pt a es te es Oe

a)
~)
oR
©

NTN OOo eH <

237
251
261
285
307

319
333

359
375
399
409

419
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Page
Tools makythy man, by Kenneth Oakley 2252222222 22-2 elo awe ee 431

The backwash of the frontier: The impact of the Indian on American
culture; by Ac Irving Hallowell: 2-0. SoS See eee ee eee 447
The restored Shanidar skull, by Te D: Stewarts. %=-- 2-2-2 252- 4 sees 473
Acculturation in the Guajira, by Raymond #. Crist__.-___------------- 481
The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito, by Neil M. Judd___-.___-_-_---_-_- 501

A century of American Indian exhibits in the Smithsonian Institution,
by Johmi@. Biwerat: i.e exe ae epee ie weir on een Set on ee eee ee 513
The childhood pattern of genius, by Harold G. MeCurdy.__-------_----_- 527

The New England porringer: An index of custom, by Anthony N. B.
Galvan 28. soe sce Bes See Sa aees Poe anise See ae ee ae ee 543

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Plated] sent ote eet ee eee ot eee nee eee ae oe 6
Plates| 2022222 ose es tie Oe See ee eer ee ee eres 70
Plates: 6,\/.c2 22-5055 shoo Se Se Se oe ee ee ee 110
MPT NOR ee ee ae ea ae ee Rn Oe 134
Pigtes!9: TOUS eee Soe ee ee eae ee 166
SE Vey Ges ei aT ea se Pe ee mt we Ae at ne 198
Rocketry (Cox and Stoiko)? Plate ds 22 224. 2 2s eae ee 278
Fresh water for arid lands (Jenkins): Plates 1-5_._..._____-_--_------____- 294
Abundance of chemical elements (Suess): Plates 1-4-___--__-----_--____- 310
Heology ot man (Sears): Plates 1-102. 2422225 ee eee 390
Seaotter (Kenyon): Plates 1-622 tee Secs ees ae ee ee eee 406
Screw-worm eradication (Knipling): Plates 1-6..-.-------------------- 414
Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition (Schmitt): Plates 1-10_______- 422
Backwash ofthe trontier (Hallowell) Blaten=e2. 22-2 2222 eee 447
Plates; 2—82) 36 3s 454
Shanidar! skull:(Stewart): Plates 1-l3-_ 5.2 [ods a ee 478
Acculturation in the Guajira (Crist): Plates 1-82-25. 22 22 eee 486
Braced-up cliff at Pueblo Bonito (Judd): Plates 1-6___--.-------------- 502
American Indian exhibits (Ewers): Plates 1-8_...__.------------------- 518

New England porringer (Garvan): Plates 1-822. -~_- =o 550
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1958

Presiding Officer ew oficio.—DwicutT D. Eisennower, President of the United
States.
Chancellor —EarLt WarrEN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
DwiacHT D. ErsenHower, President of the United States.
Ricuarp M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
Eart WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
JoHN Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
Rosert B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Nem H. McEtroy, Secretary of Defense.
WILLIAM P. Rocers, Attorney General.
ARTHUR BE). SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Frep A. SEATON, Secretary of the Interior.
Ezra Tart Benson, Secretary of Agriculture.
SIncLaIrn WEEKS, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES P. MITCHELL, Secretary of Labor.
Maxton B. Forsom, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
Hart WarReEN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Ricuarp M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
CiLinton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
H. ALEXANDER SMITH, Member of the Senate.
Overton Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JoHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
JoHN NIcHOLAS Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
ArtHur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
Cary P. HASKINS, citizen of Washingion,. D.C.
JEROME C. HuUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Ezcecutive Committee.—Rosert V. FLEMING, chairman, CLARENCE CANNON, CARYL
P. HASKINS.
Secretary.—LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—J. L. Keppy, A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mrs. LouIsE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer—T. EF. CLARK.
Ohief, editorial and publications division—PAvuL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—RutTH E. BLANCHARD.
Buildings Manager.—L. L. OLIVER.
Chief, personnel division.—J. B. NEWMAN.
Chief, supply division.—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic laboratory.—¥. B. KrstneEr.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. Remington Kellogg.
Administrative Assistant.—Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd.
Registrar—Helena M. Weiss.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—A. Remington Kellogg, acting.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: F. M. Setzler, head curator.
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., Ralph
S. Solecki, associate curators.
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, acting curator; R. A. Eider, Jr.,
assistant curator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.
DEPARTMENT oF ZooLocy : Herbert Friedmann, acting head curator.
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W.
Setzer, associate curators.
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Crabill,
W. D. Field, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer,
T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate
curator.
DEPARTMENT OF BoTANY (NATIONAL HERBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. 8. Cowan, E. C. Leonard,
Velva E. Rudd, HE. H. Walker, associate curators.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, curator.
Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; P. S. Conger, M. BH.
Hale, Jr., associate curators; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; R. 8. Clarke,
Jr., P. E. Desauteis, E. P. Henderson, associate curators.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper,
curator; R. 8. Boardman, P. M. Kier, associate curators.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
P. P. Vaughn, associate curators.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.—F. A. Taylor.
Assistant Director.—J. C. Ewers.
Administrative assistant.—W. E. Boyle.
Chief exhibits specialist —J. KH. Anglim.
Zoological exhibits specialist—_W. L. Brown.
Exhibits specialists —B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Lawless, Jr.
SECRETARY’S REPORT VII

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.

Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, curator.

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: E. S. Ferguson, curator;
BH. A. Battison, associate curator; R. M. Vogel, assistant curator.

Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, associate
curator.

Division of Agriculture and Wood Products: W. N. Watkins, curator; E. C.
Kendall, associate curator.

Division of Electricity: W. J. King, Jr., acting curator.

Division of Medical Sciences: G. B. Griffenhagen, curator; J. B. Blake,
associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.

Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, acting curator.

Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, acting curator.

Division of Graphic Aris: Jacob Kainen, curator; A. J. Wedderburn, Jr.,
associate curator; F. O. Griffith, ITI, assistant curator.

Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, curator.

DEPARTMENT OF CiviL History: A. N. B. Garvan, head curator; Mrs. Margaret
C. Clark, assistant curator.

Division of Political History: W. BH. Washburn, acting curator; Mrs. Mar
garet B. Klapthor, associate curator; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W.
Murray, assistant curators.

Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watkins, curator; G. C. Lindsay, asso-
ciate curator; Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator.

Division of Philately and Postal History: F. J. McCall, acting curator.

Division of Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator; Mrs. Elvira
Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.

Division of Military History: E. M. Howell, acting curator; C. R. Goins, Jr.,
assistant curator.

Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—¥.. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist.—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Ethnologist —W. C. Sturtevant.

River Basin Surveys.—F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; A. L. Stephenson, Chief,
Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—F. L. Whipple.
Associate Directors.—J. A. Hynek, T. E. Sterne.
Assistant Director.—J. 8S. Rinehart.
Astrophysicists.—R. J. Davis, E. L. Fireman, L. G. Jacchia, Max Krook, F. B.
Riggs, Jr., C. A. Whitney.
Mathematician. —R. E. Briggs.
TABLE MOUNTAIN, CALIF., FIELD STATION.—A. G. Froiland, physicist.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—W. H. Klein, acting.
Plant physiologists.—V. B. Elstad, Leonard Price, Mrs. Alice P. Withrow.
Hlectronic engineer.—J. H. Harrison.
Instrument maker.—D. G. Talbert.
VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.-T. M. Beggs.
SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. Wenley.

Assistant Director.—J. A. Pope.

Associate in Near Eastern art—Richard Httinghausen.
Associate in technical research.—R. J. Gettens.
Associate curators.—J. F. Cahill, H. P. Stern.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
Leonard Carmichael, Chairman.
Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., U.S. Air Force.
Rear Adm. R. E. Dixon, U.S. Navy.
Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle.
Grover Loening.
Director.—P. S. Hopkins.
Head curator and historian.—P. BH. Garber.
Associate curators.—L. S. Casey, W. M. Male.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—T. H. Reed.
Associate Director.—J. L. Grimmer.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Resident Naturalist.—_M. H. Moynihan.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief—J. A. Collins.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
HARL WaxREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
JOHN Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
Rospert B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
EF. LamMot BELInN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PAavuL MELLON.
Rusu H. Kress.
President.—CHESTER DALE.
Vice President.—F. LAMONT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—JOHN WALKER.
Administrator —ERNEST R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel. HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—PeErry B. Cott.
SECRETARY'S REPORT ADs¢

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
John E. Graf
Unitep States NatTionAL MusEuM
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood.
N. M. Judd, Archeology.
H. W. Krieger, Hthnology.

Paul Bartsch, Mollusks.

J. Bruce Bredin.

M. A. Carriker, Insects.

C. J. Drake, Insects.

Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes.

D. C. Graham.

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine
Invertebrates.

A. B. Howell, Mammals.

Laurence Irving, Birds.

W. L. Jellison, Insects.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses.
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams.

R. 8S. Bassler, Paleontology.

R. W. Brown, Paleobotany.

Preston Cloud, Invertebrate
Paleontology.

C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate
Paleontology.

Betty J. Meggers, Archeology.
W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology.
W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.

Zoology

Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.

J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.

C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.

W. L. Schmitt.

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.

C. R. Shoemaker, Marine Invertebrates.

R. E. Snodgrass, Insects.

T. &. Snyder, Insects.

Alexander Wetmore, Birds.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod
Crustacea.

Botany

¥. A. McClure, Grasses.
J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.

Geology
J. B. Knight, Invertebrate Paleon-
tology.
J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paleon-
tology.

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Arts and Manufactures
F. L. Lewton, Textiles.

Elmer C. Herber.
F. W. MacKay, Numismatics.

History

Carroll Quigley, Political History.
| P. A. Straub, Numismatics.

Bureau of American Ethnology

J. P. Harrington.
Sister M. Inez Hilger.

M. W. Stirling.
A. J. Waring, Jr.

x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Astrophysical Observatory

Cc. G. Abbot.
Freer Gallery of Art
Oleg Grabar. Max Loebhr.
Grace Dunham Guest. Katherine N. Rhoades.
National Air Museum
Frederick C. Crawford. | John J. Ide.

National Zoological Park

W. M. Mann. | E. P. Walker.

Canal Zone Biological Area
C. C. Soper. | James Zetek.
SECTION 200

DEPARTMENT OF
ARMED FORCES
HISTORY

MILITARY
HISTORY
NAVAL
HISTORY
AIR FORCE
HISTORY

PARTMENT OF
IL HISTORY

POLITICAL i

HISTORY

CULTURAL
HISTORY

PHILATELY &
POSTAL HISTORY,

UMISMATICS

SERVICE
DIVISIONS

}
PHOTOGRAPHI EDITORIAL &

ASTROPHYSICAL CANAL ZONE

OBSERVATORY BIOLOGICAL
CAMBRIDGE, MASS. AREA

UPPER
ATMOSPHERE METEORITICS
SATELLITE RADIATION &
TRACKING ORGANISMS
PROGRAM WASHINGTON, DC.

INTERNATIONAL
EXCHANGE
SERVICE

SMITHSONIAN
MUSEUM
SERVICE

BIO- SCIENCES
INFORMATION
EXCHANGE

492520 O - 59 (Face p. X)
a :

— ee eh Sceaommy ga

72 MUS2UM

ROTE 4

 &

JRAUTAM

PRO TWIT RAGE

MMITHSONIAN INA TTEOR

TAMDITAM
RONagLIG>

eTaAS at

on ne a

SMLISVART
ROUTES
t 2a1vpze

¥IOI00S

e AG. a

28 ROTHSMTSATR,
tise YSOSOVOAK THAT”

Ya ke .

be - Gs
ei, lo
et ee ae

: ik gree

we
SECTION 200

EXHIBIT A

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION /
ORGANIZATION CHART

OFFICE

OF THE
SECRETARY
‘uation En NATIONAL
NATION. envi BUREAU OF UNITED STATES NATIONAL NATIONAL ASTROPHYSICAL INTERNATIONAL
H H ri tated CA AMERICAN NATIONAL AIR ZOOLOGICAL RVATORY EXCHANGE
I[UNDER SEPARATE }! GALLERY OF ART FINE ARTS ETHNOLOGY MUSEUM MUSEUM PARK |DGE, MASS. SERVICE
1[eaaRo" or rmverees);

aan

MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY
DEPARTMENT 0 DEPARTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF fee na DEPARTMENT OF a i
ANTHROPOLOGY ZOOLOGY BOTANY GEOLOGY Peay CIVIL HISTORY pee SeRvici
PHYSICAL POLITICAL
cuttul
ETHNOLOSY| HIST
REPTILES & =a
0 AMPHIBIANS} 0 Pre nae| OSTAL HISTO

INSECTS ELECT RICIT'

Hid
i

SERVICE
DIVISIONS
APPROVED DECEMBER 9, 1957
romare Creches MOTOGRAPWI]

492520 O ~ 59 (Face p. X)

‘aa: © AT am, Rae,

a

30 MUI2UM
— ROTS IA JARUTAM

at
PAH ARTY RES

creaanen T°
‘ommercena CM

RR ED reg © ern
'YQOIOR HT De rie |

pie! A anpievle | Fe
7), 4 0 4
23Ke \

Sth cation

wat
my. |

nee I

par Si
a we

er asrsain

Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1958

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:
GrenTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ-

ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The 112th year of the Smithsonian Institution, whose activities are
recorded in this report, has demonstrated anew that James Smithson’s
scientifically and philosophically oriented mind conceived an effective
enterprise when he specified that the establishment he founded and
endowed should devote itself to “the increase and diffusion of know}l-
edge among men.” ‘These two related objectives still guide and
inspire the varied and constructive activities of his Institution. /n-
crease of knowledge well describes the scientific and scholarly research
that is effectively carried on by Smithsonian staff members. Déffusion
of knowledge aptly summarizes the development of public museum
displays, the presentation of lectures, the conduct of a great official
correspondence about science and related matters, and the issuing
of scientific and popular publications by the Institution.

During the year here reported upon 10,365,872 individuals visited
the Smithsonian, if all its branches are considered. This is a truly
amazing and significant fact, for probably no other museum group
anywhere, comparable at all to the Smithsonian Institution, has ever
been visited by so many people in a single year. It is interesting to
note, however, that a growth in the recognition of the importance of
national museums seems to characterize not only America but also
many of the other nations of the world at the present time. As the
United States becomes more certain of its established place in the
world, its citizens seem to become increasingly interested in the unique
type of knowledge about American natural resources and American
civilian, military, and technological history that can be acquired at
their Smithsonian. Our records show that the Institution now has

if
yy) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

nearly 51 million cataloged objects in its collections. In number of
items, therefore, as well as of visitors, the Smithsonian Institution is
certainly one of the largest museum complexes, if not the largest, on
the face of the globe.

The fact that the Smithsonian possesses such great collections and
also attracts such armies of visitors makes it very important that the
public displays of its museums be prepared and presented in the most
interesting and instructive manner for the benefit of all who come
through its doors. It is a pleasure, therefore, to report that real
progress was made during the year in the renovation of exhibits in
the older buildings of the Smithsonian. Detailed planning has also
been carried on in preparation for the construction of the great ex-
hibits that must be ready for immediate installation when the struc-
ture of the Institution’s new Museum of History and Technology
building is completed in 1961.

Since the Institution’s program of modernizing exhibitions began
about 5 years ago, more than a dozen new exhibit halls have been
opened in our older buildings—the First Ladies Hall, two halls por-
traying North American Indians and Eskimos, the Hall of Latin
American Archeology, Birds of the World, North American Mammal
Hall, Everyday Life in Early America, the Hall of Power Machinery,
the Hall of Health, the Printing Arts Hall, the Hall of Gems and
Minerals, and the Halls of Naval and Military History. These new
halls represent notable accomplishments and have attracted wide and
favorable notice, not only from the general public but also from
museum technicians and specialists in visual education here and
abroad.

This current improvement of Smithsonian museum units is thus
really part of a new worldwide regard for the educational function
of museums. This growth is attested by the reports of the Inter-
national Museums Office in Paris. Hardly a nation can be named
that is not now engaged in new developments of buildings or displays
in its national museums. It is interesting that such projects are
being carried out on a large scale in Russia and its satellite states as
well as in western nations.

This new emphasis upon the preservation for posterity and the
effective display of objects that represent the resources and the phys-
ical development of each nation may well have been fostered by
mankind’s recognition of the destruction of its heritage that was
brought about by two world wars. In this sense every great museum
stands as a tribute to mankind’s faith in the continuity of human
achievement. Each such institution attests a recognition that the
future is best when it 1s solidly grounded upon a knowledge of past
achievements.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 3

The objective of the new museum development at the Smithsonian
is to display examples of the mineral and biological resources of our
nation and of the world and to epitomize the human achievements
that have made our country great and strong.

More than 60 years ago a notable museum scholar, George Brown
Goode, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, defined
a museum as “an institution for the preservation of those objects which
best illustrate the phenomena of nature and the works of man, and
the utilization of these for the increase of knowledge and for the
culture and enlightenment of the people.” This fundamental con-
ception has not changed with the years. But methods and techniques
for meeting this objective do change. Dr. Goode further stated,
“The museum of the past must be set aside, reconstructed, transformed
from a cemetery of bric-a-brac into a nursery of living thoughts.
The museum of the future must stand side by side with the library
and the laboratory ... as one of the principal agencies for the en-
lightenment of the people.” What could better describe what has
been going on in the Smithsonian’s museums during recent years?
Those who have these renovations in charge are trying to give the
Smithsonian educational exhibitions that are appropriate and ade-
quate to the mental outlook of a 20th-century America.

In the Smithsonian’s new Museum of History and Technology
building, now under construction, there will be displayed from our
vast collections the truly breathtaking story of the rise and inter-
related growth of the civilian, military, and technological aspects of
American life. In this building the relationship of pure and applied
science will be presented in an effective way, patterned to some extent
upon the manner in which this relationship is so well displayed in a
number of great Kuropean museums. In the new Smithsonian build-
ing, however, the strands that have been woven together in the mak-
ing of our modern American civilization will be shown in a way that
it is hoped will be unique and particularly appropriate to the special
genius of our country.

The existing exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution and the new
exhibits now being planned can be thought of as significant not only
in the knowledge but also in the motivation that they may instill in
many of the millions of high-school visitors who come to the Smith-
sonian each year. In a free society, boys and girls are not drafted
and forced to study mathematics or physics or any other subject that
may be required by the state. Our society depends upon the slower,
but certainly in the long run the sounder, technique of first arousing
the students’ interest and then providing them with needed edu-
cational opportunities. Certainly great museums, such as those
directed by the Smithsonian, are able in an important way to inspire
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

and provide educational motivation for not a few of its millions of
visitors each year. Because of the present importance of interesting
enough talented students in scientific studies to assure that our country
will remain scientifically and technologically strong, it is especially
fortunate that at just this time the work of the Smithsonian is be-
coming so effective in displaying the essential relationship between
pure and applied science and in demonstrating how research has led
to progress in many fields in recent years.

It should be recorded also that forward steps were made during the
year in planning new wings for the Natural History Building, as
authorized by Congress last year.

As the detailed statements of the various bureau directors of the
Smithsonian presented in this report demonstrate, the Institution
is by no means exclusively concerned with museum displays. This
year’s record of publications indicates that the Institution is now, as
in past years, playing a vital role in the communication of scientific
information to the laboratories and research centers of the nation and
the world. This year also the Smithsonian has issued some popular
works based upon its collections for the information of a broader
public.

One of the most dramatic aspects of the work of the Institution
during the time covered by this report is that of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Funds have been provided for some of
the work of this bureau by grants from foundations and from the
committee in charge of the International Geophysical Year. As a
result of the use of these special funds, it has been possible to estab-
lish Smithsonian Institution observing centers for artificial satellites
in the following locations: Argentina, Australia, Florida, Hawaii,
Japan, India, Iran, Curacao, New Mexico, Peru, South Africa, and
Spain. The observations at these centers have also been made more
adequate by the installation in each of them of a newly devised type
of astronomical camera or recording telescope that has unique fea-
tures. Information obtained from these stations is communicated to
the headquarters of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at
Cambridge, Massachusetts. At this center calculations are made that
have allowed the Institution to describe the orbits of all the major
artificial satellites and to make accurate predictions concerning the
characteristics of their motions.

As noted below in special sections, this report year has indeed been
one of progress in many aspects of the work of the Institution.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

There was no change during the current year in the membership
of the Board of Regents. The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal
year was as follows: Chief Justice of the United States Earl War-
ren, Chancellor; Vice President Richard M. Nixon; members from
the Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, H. Alex-
ander Smith; members from the House of Representatives: Overton
Brooks, Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys; citizen members: John
Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford
H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

The informal dinner meeting of the Board, preceding the annual
meeting, was held on the evening of January 16, 1958, in the main
hall of the Smithsonian Building. Here various exhibits were dis-
played showing phases of present-day projects. Dr. G. Arthur
Cooper spoke on brachiopods as a key to the past, Dr. Anthony N.
B. Garvan talked about colonial silver, Dr. Ralph S. Solecki spoke
on “The Discovery of the First Neanderthals in Mesopotamia,” and
Archibald G. Wenley compared the Far Eastern collections in the
Freer Gallery of Art with those abroad.

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January
17, 1958. The Secretary presented his published annual report on
the activities of the Institution together with the 1957 annual report
of the United States National Museum. Dr. Robert V. Fleming,
chairman of the executive and permanent committees of the Board,
gave the financial report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri-
vate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee of
the Board of Regents, page 223.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for its regular operations for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, totaling $6,102,319 were obligated
as follows:
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Management (tli 2 202 Od YO eT NS A $82, 411
United States! Nationals Museumiers earth eee ee ee ee ee 2, 491, 164
Bureau, of American |Wthnolo gy ote 2 a0) es ee 2 eee 61, 197
AStLOPHYSICAliy ODSCEV ALOT 2 oa sees oe earl ised Re eee to ee 384, 237
National Collection ot Wine cA terete. = ete anaes anes eet eee 51, 346
INS GLOM ETAT MESO UT Sent Se EEE REO Le wee MUR nee ene evens ee ee 139, 646
Canal Zone Biological sAreagy. 2 A932 Mee 35, 128
InternwationalyDxchange | Nervices io. cs73 ei le ee ee ee 17, 386
Buildings, Management. Service.0 2s 2 ee eee 1, 888, 183
Other ‘genleral'tser vices veh ok Wel ie Uae AE eee sone nea ae lod oe 765, 995
Additional costs due to increase in pay scales, Act of January 20, 1958

(B.D 85-462 ace bis es Rao eB ae 8 ones eS ha es 125, 626

In addition, the sum of $800,000 was appropriated for the prepa—
ration of plans and specifications for the additions to the Natural His-
tory Building.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park_._.__ $840, 650
From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the
RIVERS ASIN IS UE VCS ie ae ee kn nee CE 175, 624
VISITORS

Again this year an all-time high was reached in the number of
visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall. The
total was 5,423,771, about 582,000 more than the previous year. April
1958 was the month of largest attendance, with 864,451; August 1957
second, with 765,129; July 1957 third, with 763,817. Largest attend-
ance for a single day was 69,349 on April 27, 1958. On the same day—
the first Sunday of the Churchill exhibition of paintings, 42,524 came
to the Natural History Building alone. Table 1 gives a summary of

TABLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended

June 30, 1958
Smithsonian] Arts and Natural Aircraft Freer
Year and month Building | Industries | History Building Building Total
Building Building

1957
ive acc e e ak ae 123, 261 364, 045 150, 915 109, 751 15, 845 763, 817
AUSTISES 22 os eee ee ewes 120, 842 370, 605 157, 392 99, 085 17, 205 765, 129
Septembers2: =e eee 47, 693 139, 838 76, 694 55, 156 7, 687 327, 068
OCtODeR eae n cea eee 37, 482 116, 432 78, 094 27, 893 5, 902 265, 803
November: os )s32 257 a 41,319 104, 186 80, 824 34, 724 5, 971 266, 824
December’ &+ a cetn a. os ees 28, 066 69, 904 56, 043 25, 075 3, 813 182, 901

1958
arian y eters cere ae 26, 645 57, 466 61, 422 21, 269 4, 853 171, 655
Mabriiarye - se sues hal ee 19, 599 51, 369 46, 272 15, 737 3, 517 136, 494
Vian Ch Serene sae aap me setae 86, 522 140, 041 102, 677 37, 494 6, 209 322, 943
J) \jo}pile Se eee te Dearie UP 2 106, 623 392, 292 236, 565 115, 032 14, 539 864, 451
Miayis. Sensi lsotio ROS. £233 119, 713 330, 738 210, 515 89, 134 12, 107 762, 207
JUNO ome FIT So ao 108, 843 251, 939 144, 359 75, 312 14, 026 594, 479

He) 4) Ea ee 815, 808 | 2,388,855 } 1, 401, 772 705, 662 111, 674 5, 423, 771

Secretary's Report, 1958

uoljonNIJsUOD JopuN MOU AZopouysa

NT pue A1OVSIFT jo uInosnyy MOU § UPIUOSY IWS oy} fo Sullopual 8 JONIYOIV

PLATE 1

a
hh " mt ay oF a
: a

SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

the attendance records for the five buildings. These figures, when
added to the 913,482 visitors recorded at the National Gallery of Art
and the 4,028,620 estimated at the National Zoological Park, make a
total number of visitors at the Institution of 10,365,876.

LECTURES

The annual James Arthur Lecture on the Sun, customarily held
in the spring, was postponed this year until fall. The 25th Arthur
Lecture, therefore, will be recorded in next year’s report.

Dr. Rodney S. Young, curator of the Mediterranean Section of
the University Museum at Philadelphia and professor of classical
archeology at the University of Pennsylvania, delivered a lecture
on “Recent Discoveries at Gordion” in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building on the evening of February 27, 1958. ‘This lecture
was sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Archeo-
logical Institute of America.

Several lectures were also sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art
and the National Gallery of Art. These are listed later in the reports
of these bureaus.

BIO-SCIENCES INFORMATION EXCHANGE

The current interest in and growing support of research in the
bio-sciences have resulted in a considerable growth in the activities
of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange. This agency, which
operates within the Smithsonian Institution under funds made avail-
able to the Institution by other agencies, remains the most compre-
hensive clearinghouse for current research in the life sciences.
Through its extensive and detailed system of indexing it acts as a
rapid means of communication among research workers.

The active research projects registered with the Exchange now
number more than 17,000. For each project the investigator has
prepared a brief summary of his current problem. These summaries
are made available upon request and without charge to staff members
of research institutions. The Exchange also functions to prevent
unknowing duplication of research support by the national govern-
mental and nongovernmental granting agencies. In carrying out
this responsibility a vast amount of data on the support of research
in the life sciences has been accumulated. Information of this type
is continually used by granting agencies in planning their current
and future activities.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES

National Museum.—Accessions to the national collections during
the year brought the total catalog entries in all departments to nearly
492520—59-—_2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

51,000,000. Some of the outstanding items received included: In
anthropology, casts of the newly discovered Neanderthal skeleton
from Iraq, a selection of ethnological objects from Palau and others
from the Orient and Ethiopia, and a large series of artifacts deriv-
ing from excavations of the River Basin Surveys; in zoology, a collec-
tion of mammals from Panama, birds from Ghana, Rhodesia, and
Yukon Territory, a cast of the recently discovered living coelacanth,
the Carl J. Drake collection of over 100,000 Hemiptera, the Tippmann
collection of nearly 98,000 wood-boring beetles, the Buys collection
of over 12,000 leafhoppers, the Osburn collection of about 3,500
Bryozoa, and a large lot of mollusks collected on the Smithsonian-
Bredin Pacific Expedition; in botany, a collection of nearly 11,000
lichens from eastern and southern United States and 15,000 phan-
erogams from Brazil; in geology, 10 new meteorites and many rare
and fine minerals and gems, 21,000 fossil crinoids, and 330 specimens
of middle Eocene vertebrates from southeastern Wyoming; in armed
forces history, several rare firearms and a group of naval ordnance
materials recovered from a 1595 wreck off Bermuda; in science and
technology, a foot-power milking machine, 1,400 important wood
samples in the form of walking sticks, severa] interesting electronic
items, an 1844 steam pump, and the “transparent woman” exhibited
in the new Halli of Health; in arts and manufactures, a model of the
Hargreave spinning jenny and ceramic and glass items from the
Aaron Straus collection; and in civil history, a valuable collection
of Lincoln memorabilia, the inaugural dress of Dolley Madison, fur-
nishings and fittings of the StohIman Confectionery Shop of George-
town, D.C. (dating from about 1900), and 5,801,500 United States
obsolete revenue stamps transferred from the Internal Revenue
Service.

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Iraq, Japan and Oki-
nawa, Africa, Panama, Europe, and many parts of the United States.

Under the exhibits-modernization program three new halls were
opened to the public during the year—the Hall of Health, the Hall
of North American Indians and Eskimos, and the Hall of Military
History.

Bureau of American Hthnology.—Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
was made Director of the Bureau on January 1, 1958, filling the posi-
tion made vacant by the retirement of Dr. M. W. Stirling. The
staff members continued their research and publication activities:
Dr. Roberts continued as Director of the River Basin Surveys, Dr.
Collins continued his Eskimo and Arctic studies, Dr. Sturtevant
carried on ethnologic fieldwork in South Carolina, New York, and
Florida, and Mr. Miller renewed his excavations at Russell Cave,
Alabama.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

Astrophysical Observatory.—The work of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory continued along four principal lines—solar
astrophysics, upper atmosphere, meteors, and the satellite tracking
program. The last-named operation was, of course, fully activated
following the Russian launching of the first artificial earth satellite
on October 4, 1957. The division of radiation and organisms con-
tinued its researches on photomechanisms in plants.

National Collection of Fine Arts.—The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion accepted for the Gallery 1 bronze, 2 oil paintings, 1 watercolor
on ivory, and the Gothic library and 18th-century French Renais-
sance drawingroom from “Miramar,” Newport, R.I. The Gallery
held 18 special exhibitions during the year, and the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 96 exhibitions in 264 mu-
seums and galleries.

Freer Gallery of Art—Purchase for the Freer Gallery collections
included Chinese bronzes, ivory, jade, painting, and pottery; Jap-
anese painting, wood sculpture, and pottery; Egyptian glass; Persian
metalwork, pottery, and manuscript; and Mesopotamian pottery.
The Gallery continued its program of illustrated lectures in the audi-
torium by distinguished scholars in eastern art, the 1957-58 series
numbering 6.

National Air Musewm.—Good progress was made toward locating
a site for a new building for the museum. During the year 193
specimens in 52 separate accessions were added to the aeronautical
collections, including a “Falcon” GAR-1 guided missile, a Verville-
Sperry “Messenger” airplane of 1920, the Herrick “Vertoplane” of
1937, a bronze statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell, and a “Van-
guard” rocket-powered satellite vehicle.

National Zoological Park.—The Zoo accessioned 1,411 individual
animals during the year. The net count at the close of the year was
2,316. Noteworthy among the additions were a pair of trumpeter
swans, three Tasmanian devils, a pair of great black-casqued horn-
bills, and a linsang from Malaya. A snow leopard was born in
captivity, an extremely rare event. Visitors totaled more than 4
million.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—Of the approximately 570 visitors
to the island during the year, 43 were scientists, students, and ob-
servers using the station for special researches, particularly in wild-
life observation, plant and insect studies, and photography.

International Exchange Service—As the official United States
agency for the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary
publications between this country and other nations, the International
Exchange Service handled during the year 1,094,798 packages of
such publications, weighing 743,329 pounds.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

National Gallery of Art-—The Gallery during the year received
1,730 accessions by gift, loan, or deposit. Ten special exhibitions
were held, and 18 traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald
Collection were circulated elsewhere. Exhibitions from the “Index
of American Design” were given 26 bookings in 9 States. Nearly
44,000 persons attended the general tours conducted by Gallery per-
sonnel, and over 8,000 attended tours and lectures by special appoint-
ment. The Sunday afternoon lectures drew a total attendance of
about 13,000 persons. The Sunday evening concerts in the east
garden court were continued.

Library.—The library received a total of 53,274 publications during
the year; 128 new exchanges were arranged. Outstanding among
the gifts were a large collection of philatelic items and nearly 2,700
books and reprints on Diptera. At the close of the year the holdings
of the library and all its branches aggregated 974,893 volumes, in-
cluding 586,722 in the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Con-
gress but excluding unbound periodicals and reprints and separates
from serial publications.

Publications.—Kighty-one new publications appeared under Smith-
sonian imprint during the year. (See Report on Publications, p. 215,
for full list.) Outstanding among these were: “Araucanian Child
Life and Its Cultural Background,” by Sister M. Inez Hilger; “The
Medical and Veterinary Importance of Cockroaches,” by Louis M.
Roth and Edwin R. Willis; “Geology of Barro Colorado Island,
Canal Zone,” by W. P. Woodring; “The History of Entomology in
World War II,” by Emory C. Cushing; “Life Histories of North
American Blackbirds, Orioles, Tanagers, and Allies,” by Arthur
Cleveland Bent; “Studies in Foraminifera,” by Alfred R. Loeblich,
Jr., and collaborators; “The Bromeliaceae of Colombia,” by Lyman
B. Smith; “Archeological Investigations at the Mouth of the Ama-
zon,” by Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans; “Orbital Data and
Preliminary Analyses of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta,” by
various authors; and Ars Orientalis, volume 2. Three popular pub-
lications were issued. In all, 530,662 copies of printed matter were
distributed.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

John E. Graf, Assistant Secretary, retired on December 31, 1957,
after more than 26 years with the Institution, first as Associate Direc-
tor of the United States National Museum and since 1945 as Assistant
Secretary of the Institution.

On February 4, 1958, Dr. Remington Kellogg was appointed As-
sistant Secretary of the Institution. Dr. Kellogg has been a member
of the Smithsonian staff since 1928—since 1948 as Director of the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 11

United States National Museum. He is continuing his directorship
of the Museum.

Frank A. Taylor was made Director of the Museum of History and
Technology on April 16, 1958, having served from 1932 to 1948 as
curator of the division of engineering, from 1948 to 1955 as head
curator of the department of arts and industries, and then as Assist-
ant Director of the United States National Museum.

Dr. Matthew W. Stirling retired as Director of the Bureau of
American Ethnology on December 31, 1958. He had headed the
Bureau since 1928, prior to which he had served the Institution in the
National Museum’s department of anthropology. Dr. Frank H. H.
Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau and since 1946 director
of the River Basin Surveys, was appointed the new Director to suc-
ceed Dr. Stirling.

Dr. Theodore H. Reed was made Director of the National Zoolog-
ical Park effective March 12, 1958. He was first appointed to the
staff in July 1955 as chief veterinarian, a position he held until No-
vember 1956, when he became Acting Director upon the retirement
of Dr. William M. Mann. Also on March 12, J. Lear Grimmer, As-
sistant Director of the Park, was made Associate Director.

Philip S. Hopkins, professor of aviation and head of the depart-
ment of aviation at Norwich University, Northfield, Vt., was ap-
pointed Director of the National Air Museum effective October 28,
1957. At the same time Paul E. Garber, head curator of the Air
Museum, was given the title head curator and historian to reflect an
extension of his duties.

Jeremiah A. Collins was appointed Chief of the International Ex-
change Service on March 10, 1958, succeeding Dan G. Williams, Jr.,
who transferred to the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.

On August 12, 1957, Dr. Martin H. Moynihan was appointed Resi-
dent Naturalist of the Canal Zone Biological Area.

Miss Ruth E. Blanchard, former chief of the catalog section, was
made chief librarian of the Institution on September 23, 1957, filling
the position made vacant by the retirement of Mrs. Leila F. Clark
on August 31.
Report on the United States National
Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958 :

COLLECTIONS

Because of the reorganization of the Museum effected at the be-
ginning of the year (as described on p. 48), it was necessary to re-
assign some of the specimens among the now eight departments of
the Museum. This accounts for lower totals in some instances.
Specimens were added to the national collections and distributed
among the departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,373; zoology,
525,458; botany, 57,795; geology, 43,275; armed forces history, 1,283;
arts and manufactures, 230; civil history, 5,858,683; and science and
technology, 3,457. Most of the specimens were received as gifts from
individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agen-
cies. The Annual Report of the Director of the Museum, published
as a separate document, contains a detailed list of the year’s acces-
sions, of which the more important are summarized below. Catalog
entries in all departments now total 50,963,147.

Anthropology.—One of the most unique accessions received in the
department of anthropology is a set of casts of the restorable parts
of a Neanderthal skeleton from northern Iraq. The skeleton casts
of this newly discovered fossil man represent the work of two men in
the department: Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, recently appointed associate
curator in the division of archeology, who made the discovery in his
excavation of Shanidar Cave in northern Iraq; and the curator of
physical anthropology, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, who went to Baghdad,
restored the original skull and long bones, and made plaster replicas.
These casts, the first to reach this country, were donated to the na-
tional collections by the Directorate General of Antiquities, Iraq.

The division of ethnology received a special selection of objects
from Palau in the Caroline Islands through Dr. Delmas Nucker, High
Commissioner, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. This accession
includes a model abai or men’s house, wooden bowls, tortoise-shell
money, and native implements. From the Aaron and Lillie Straus

12
SECRETARY'S REPORT 1}

Foundation, Inc., of Baltimore, the ethnological collections were en-
riched by 148 objects consisting of glass snuff bottles, carved minerals,
and ivory netsukes from China and Japan. The division received as
a gift from Mrs. Elizabeth George a collection from Ethiopia of six
large contemporary oil paintings depicting scenes of battle and of
daily life, an Abyssinian manuscript Bible, silver buttons, and other
objects illustrating Ethiopian craftsmanship in embossing, etching,
and silver-wire filigree.

Of outstanding interest among the year’s accessions in archeology
were two prehistoric specimens from Peru—one, a wooden doll
dressed in native textiles, from the Central Coast, and the other, a
gold mummy mask of the Chimu Period (ca. A.D. 1100), presented
by Mrs. Virginia Morris Pollak. A large series of pottery, stone,
bone, and other artifacts from the Black Widow site, and a smaller
series from the Buffalo Pasture site in Stanley County, S. Dak., repre-
sent the results of River Basin Surveys excavations at two sites that
will be destroyed by the lake created by the Oahe Dam a few miles
north of Pierre. ‘These two collections throw important light on the
native village Indian culture of the Upper Missouri region in the
16th and 17th centuries. Mention should also be made of a large,
well-documented collection of archeological material from 23 States
and the District of Columbia presented by Richard Gates Slattery.

Zoology.—The most important collection of mammals received dur-
ing the year comes from Panama, where Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., asso-
ciate curator, collected over 1,300 specimens in cooperation with the
Gorgas Memoria] Laboratory. Valuable cetaceans were received
from three different sources: An embalmed pigmy sperm whale
(Hogia) from the Marine Institute of the University of Georgia, the
skull of an Alaskan beaked whale (Ziphius) from Dr. Robert Rausch,
and the complete skeleton of another kind of beaked whale (Mesop-
lodon) from Florida salvaged by John L. Paradiso, museum aide.

Among birds received during the year the following lots are the
most important: 193 specimens from Ghana, collected and presented
by D. W. Lamm, form the Museum’s first sizable collection from that
part of western Africa; 200 skeletons of Rhodesian birds, received
from the Smithsonian Institution, through Dr. A. Wetmore, has
added importantly to our skeletal material; 358 birds from Yukon
Territory, received by transfer from the Arctic Health Research Cen-
ter, through Dr. Laurence Irving, enhances the usefulness of the divi-
sion’s Arctic American material.

Important type specimens received in the division of reptiles and
amphibians include 6 paratypes of Cuban frogs, in exchange from
the Museum of Comparative Zoology; 2 paratypes of lizards from
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

New Guinea and Borneo obtained as an exchange from the Chicago
Natural History Museum; 17 paratypes of Mexican reptiles and am-
phibians from the University of Illinois Museum of Natural History ;
a valuable lot of 128 reptiles and amphibians from Formosa collected
by Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, and the Museum’s first ex-
ample of a leatherback turtle from Cuba, presented by the Museo
Ignacio Agramonte.

Among fishes received is a cast of the recently discovered living
representative Latimeria chalumnae of the otherwise wholly fossil
coelacanths purchased from the Muséum National d’Histoire Natu-
relle, Paris. ‘This interesting specimen was placed on exhibition.
A collection of 15,897 fresh-water fishes from West Virginia was
presented by Dr. F. J. Schwartz; another lot of 3,398 fishes, mostly
seahorses, was received from Dr. Kirk Strawn; and 1,185 Australian
fishes were received in exchange from Prof. L. R. Rivas of the Uni-
versity of Miami—an important addition to the Museum’s Australian
collections, since it included numerous species not previously rep-
resented here. The New York Zoological Society presented 73 holo-
types and 62 paratypes of tropical fishes, through Dr. William Beebe.

Insect material constitutes the bulk of the year’s accessions numeri-
cally. The largest single lot is the famous Carl J. Drake collection
of Hemiptera, worldwide in scope and comprising over 100,000 speci-
mens and containing more than 1,000 types. The valuable and im-
portant Tippmann collection of wood-boring beetles, Cerambycidae,
comprising 97,830 specimens, was purchased with assistance of a grant
from the National Science Foundation. This material, with 611 holo-
types, 1,415 paratypes, and cotypes, is a useful supplement to the
specimens already in the collections since it originates largely from
regions not heretofore represented. Other important accessions of
insects are the John L. Buys collection of 12,128 leafhoppers
(Homoptera), presented by Mrs. Buys, and the David Dunavan col-
lection of 4,386 North American beetles, presented by Mrs. Dunavan.

The Raymond C. Osburn collection of 3,572 bryozoans, including
145 type lots, together with extensive manuscript notes and microfilm
of Dr. Osburn’s library catalog and bibliography, was presented by
Mrs. Osburn to the division of marine invertebrates. This accession
is an important enrichment of the Museum’s facilities in this area of
research. Other notable accessions include 4,956 miscellaneous in-
vertebrates from the Palau Islands received from the George Vander-
bilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Research, through Dr. F. M.
Bayer; 10,991 specimens from waters off Surinam, transferred from
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 2,850 crustaceans, largely cope-
pods, chiefly from Africa, containing 2 holotypes and 388 paratypes,
presented by Dr. A. G. Humes; 685 crustaceans, including the holo-

SECRETARY'S REPORT 15

type and 16 paratypes of one species, given by Dr. James HE. Lynch;
2,341 polychaete worms and crustaceans from Lake Pontchartrain,
La., a gift from Dr. Rezneat M. Darnell.

The largest important accession acquired by the division of mollusks
is the collection totaling 14,350 specimens made mainly by the curator,
Dr. Harald A. Rehder, on the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the
Society, Tuamotu, and Cook Islands. Other notable accessions are
1,600 specimens of marine mollusks from the Palau Islands received
from the George Vanderbilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Re-
search through Dr. F. M. Bayer; 3,550 marine shells collected by Dr.
Cadet Hand on Kapingamarangi Atoll, Caroline Islands, under the
auspices of the Pacific Science Board; and 2,034 specimens from the
Samoan Islands, Palaus, and New Guinea, received from the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service transferred to the Museum 113 cephalopods from the Gulf
of Mexico through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and 311 land and fresh-
water mollusks of South America were received in exchange from the
Chicago Museum of Natural History.

Botany —The largest gift to the department of botany consists of
10,847 lichens, constituting the personal herbarium of Dr. Mason E.
Hale, Jr., associate curator of the division of cryptogams; most of the
material is from the eastern and southern United States. Another
notable gift received from Dr. José Cuatrecasas, resident investigator
of the department, comprised 1,165 specimens of his own collections
from Colombia, mostly a comprehensive collection of the Hepaticae
(liverworts). These are being studied by Prof. Margaret Fulford, a
principal specialist on the Hepaticae. Other gifts include 162 speci-
mens from William O. Douglas, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, representing his personal collection of Himalayan plants, and
1,735 plants of the Philippine Islands collected by Dr. José Vera
Santos and presented by the University of the Philippines. To be
mentioned especially are the 117 samples of diatoms from the Ant-
arctic collected by the British Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Ex-
pedition and presented by the University of Adelaide in Australia.

Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerogams, collected 15,133
specimens in southern Brazil. Other botanists and institutions in
Brazil have been collaborating with Dr. Smith in his study of the
Brazilian flora and have contributed specimens as follows: 422 from
Father Raulino Reitz, 378 from the Instituto Agronémico do Norte,
Belém, 163 from Dr. Amaro Macedo, and 90 from Sr. G. Hatschbach.
Dr. Egbert H. Walker, associate curator of phanerogams, obtained
291 plant specimens on his field trip to Okinawa in connection with
his current studies of the flora of the Ryukyu Islands. In helpful as-
sistance to Dr. Walker’s work, Kagoshima University, Kyushu, Japan,
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

sent in exchange 578 specimens collected by Prof. S. Hatusima, and
Dr. J. T. Conover, University of Texas, presented his personal col-
lection of ferns of Okinawa, numbering 668 specimens.

Other important exchanges include: 2,675 Cuban plants, mostly
from the now historic collections of Brother Leén and Brother Cle-
mente, received from the Colegio de la Salle, Havana; 2,697 specimens
from Arctic Alaska, received from Stanford University; 1,132 from
Canada and Alaska from the Botany and Plant Pathology Labora-
tory, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; 300 from the
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria; 1,157 from the Univer-
sity of Michigan; 912, mostly bryophytes of Europe and Africa, from
the Institute of Systematic Botany, University of Uppsala; 421 from
the collections of Dr. Bassett, Maguire and his associates in the “Gua-
yana Highlands” of Venezuela, received from the New York Botanical
Garden; and 574 plants of New Guinea, received from the Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra,
Australia.

Two noteworthy lots were acquired by purchase: 631 plants from
the Transvaal, Africa, from the collection of Dr. H. J. Schlieben; and
281 Colombian plants of the A. E. Lawrance collection.

Geology—Among the fine and rare minerals received in the divi-
sion of mineralogy and petrology are native silver, Honduras, from
the New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Co.; amethyst, Korea,
from John B. Jago; and pyrolusite, Ghana, from Marcel D. Acrouet.
Newly described mineral species received as gifts include ajoite, Ari-
zona, from Miss Mary Mrose, and santafeite, Grants, N. Mex., from
the New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources,

Outstanding minerals obtained through exchange are: A very large
scheelite crystal from Arizona; a fine helvite crystal from Sweden; a
crystal of columbite from Virginia; an exceptionally large ilvaite
crystal from Idaho; wulfenite from Arizona; and aragonite from
California.

Noteworthy additions to the gem collection were purchased through
the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea collection. These include
a garnet from Idaho weighing 25.7 carats; a figure of the Chinese
god of longevity carved in tigereye; a nephrite jade vase; and a fine
series of small Montana sapphires of various colors. <A large and
ornate jade was received as a gift from Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather
Post May.

Outstanding additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and
exchange include these items: Native gold, Washington; azurite and
cerussite, Australia; becquerelite, kasolite, soddyite and schoepite,
Belgian Congo; spodumene, Brazil; huebnerite, Colorado; magnesite
and strontianite, Austria; wulfenite, Arizona; uraninite, Colorado;
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

and a specimen of the Kimble County, Tex., meteorite was added as
an exchange.

Several outstanding specimens were purchased through the Can-
field fund as additions to the Canfield collection. Among these are
sylvanite, Colorado; chrysocolla and quartz, Arizona; scheelite,
Korea; apophyllite and amblygonite, Brazil.

Received in exchange are nine meteorites new to the collection:
Vengerovo, Krymka, Orlovka, Chebankol, Nikolskoe, Petropavlovsk,
and Hressk from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; Richland,
Navarro County, Tex., and Fayetteville, Washington County, Ark.

Significant among new material received in the division of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany are: 10 specimens of rare Missis-
sippian goniatites from Chris E. A. Alter; 103 of Lower Cretaceous
Foraminifera from Trinidad, B.W.I., presented by Dr. Hans M.
Bolli; approximately 10,000 of invertebrate fossils from Silurian
formations on the Island of Gotland, from Dr. A. J. Boucot; about
100 of Tertiary echinoids and other Cuban fossils from the Cuba
California Oil Co., Havana, through P. B. McGrath; 2 type speci-
mens of Ordovician starfish from Dr. Howard R. Cramer; 2 type
specimens of Cretaceous crabs from North Dakota given by Dr. F. D.
Holland, Jr.; 2,000 Pliocene mollusks from St. Petersburg, Fla., from
Charles Locklin; and the type specimen of an enormous spiriferoid
brachiopod, Dimegelasma, from the Mississippian of Nevada from
Dr. Joseph Lintz, Jr.

Funds from the income of the Walcott bequest permitted the pur-
chase from Mrs. Raymond R. Hibbard of 300 rhomboporoid Bryozoa
from the Middle Devonian Hamilton group of New York State and
38 Pliocene brachiopods from Sicily, from Guiseppe Bonafede.

The crinoid collection of Harrell L. Strimple, Bartlesville, Okla.,
was purchased under the Springer fund. This yielded about 21,000
specimens and represents more than 20 years of collecting by Mr.
Strimple, who has made a specialty of Upper Paleozoic crinoids.

Notable among the exchanges are 306 Paleozoic and Mesozoic in-
vertebrate fossils, from the University of Bristol, through Dr. W. F.
Whittard.

The significant accession for the year in the division of vertebrate
paleontology came as a gift through the income of the Walcott fund
bequest, which permitted Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator, and Franklin
Pearce, exhibits specialist, to collect 330 specimens from Middle
Kocene beds of southwestern Wyoming. These include skull and
jaws of the primate Wotharctus tenebrosus and skeletons of the 4-toed
horse Orohippus, the primitive tapir Helaletes, skulls of assorted
rodents, and the large titanothere Palaeosyops. Another gift from
the Walcott fund consists of portions of four tritylodont (mammal-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

like reptile) skeletons and a protosuchian crocodile collected by Dr.
David Dunkle, curator, and Dr. G. S. Lewis of the U.S. Geological
Survey from Triassic rocks in the Navajo Reservation, Arizona.

An exchange with the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle,
Paris, brought examples of six genera of ray-finned fishes, new to
the collection, from the Triassic of Madagascar and casts of impor-
tant types in the French museum. An important skull of Hryops from
the Permian (Dunkard formation) of southwestern Pennsylvania
was donated by William E. Moran.

Armed Forces history—Among the material accessioned in the
division of military history, the notable items are: A rare Committee
of Safety rampart rifle made at the Rappahannock Forge and a
model 1869 pistol with Allin conversion, one of three known speci-
mens, from the Department of the Army, and the famous Frankfort
Arsenal cartridge collection from Col. Berkeley R. Lewis.

Of much importance is a collection of naval ordnance materials
recovered from the wreck of an unidentified ship which sank on the
reefs of Bermuda about 1595. This rare material of the sixteenth
century included expanding bar shot of lead and wrought iron, spiked
shot that carried tow soaked with tar, which when lighted by the
explosion of the charge in the gun formed an incendiary shot; solid
iron shot of various sizes, musket balls, and the breechblock of an
iron swivel gun.

A built-up model of a warship of the late seventeenth century was
received as a loan from Edwin A. Link. It is believed that the model
itself dates to that period, and it forms a rare and desirable addition
to the exhibition series. Received from the Department of the Navy,
also as a loan, through the Naval Historical Foundation, was a fife
rail which stood by the foremast of the sloop-of-war Hartford, flag-
ship of Admiral Farragut during the actions at Mobile Bay and on
the Mississippi River in the Civil War.

Science and technology—An unusual specimen acquired by the
division of agriculture and wood products is a Mehring foot-power
cow milker donated by Earl J. Waybright. This type of milking
machine was made and sold from the 1890’s into the 1920’s and pro-
vided an inexpensive device that lightened and speeded up the task
of milking for the man with a small herd.

The outstanding accession to the section of wood products is a
group of 1,400 interesting woods of the world, in cane form, known
as the Rudolph Block collection of walking sticks. Mr. Block was
long known as a writer of fiction and articles under his pen name of
Bruno Lessing, and in his travels he gathered woods from the im-
portant worldwide forest regions. These canes represent the gems of
the wood world and were presented by the Yale University School
of Forestry.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

Most of the accessions received in the division of electricity are
in the field of electronics. Deserving particular mention are the
experimental electron tubes of Drs. Langmuir and Hull donated by
the General Electric Research Laboratory. Union College gave ex-
amples of early electronic equipment. Bowdoin College sent the
core of an electromagnet made by Joseph Henry, while Williams Col-
lege presented a very early cathode-ray tube. Maj. J. Vanderhoef
(USMC, ret.) contributed an unusual example of a Vibroflex
key and a number of Japanese electron tubes. Through the Hazel-
tine Research Corp., Dr. Alan Hazeltine donated the original experi-
mental model of the neutrodyne circuit.

The division of mechanical and civil engineering received for its
horological collection two notable clocks: one, an elaborate astronom-
ical clock of 1764, made in South Tyrol, and the other, a 17th-century
Dutch pendulum clock built by Johannes Tegelbergh of The Hague,
_ presented by Mr. and Mrs. Dillard B. Laseter.

The machinery collections obtained from the Worthington Corpo-
ration Henry R. Worthington’s first double-acting, direct-acting
steam pump, built in 1844. <A fine highly finished quadruple-expan-
sion marine steam engine, built in 1906 by the Dodge Brothers, was
received from the University of Michigan. The Boeing Airplane
Co. sectioned for display purposes a small gas turbine, which was
transferred to the Museum by the Department of the Navy.

The most significant accession acquired in the division of medical
sciences is the transparent manikin of a woman which shows by
electronic devices, light, and sound the location of the major organs
of the human body and explains their functions. This exhibit was
obtained from the Deutsches Gesundheits Museum. A collection of
gas-oxygen machines, inhalers, and hypodermic syringes was donated
by W. Harry Archer, D.D.S., an authority on Horace Wells, pri-
mary discoverer of anesthesia. Another outstanding acquisition is
a group of unusually rare ceramic drug jars donated by the Bristol-
Myers Co. The collection included a 13th-century Rhages (Persia)
albarello and a 13th-century Rakka (Mesopotamia) albarello, as well
as a 15th-century Hispano-Moresque majolica drug container and
an early 16th-century Faenza (Italy) dragonspout ewer.

The division of physical sciences acquired specimens to fill the
gaps in its collection of scientific instruments. Among these is a set
of apparatus for demonstrating the mechanical powers presented by
Middlebury College, a fine vacuum pump from Bowdoin College, an
18th-century chemical furnace from Williams College, the famous
set of tuning forks from the United States Military Academy, and a
fine Oertling assay balance from Wheaton College.

Outstanding accessions in the division of transportation are rare
builders’ half-models, including an Eastern Shore of Maryland fish-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ing launch, dated about 1913, donated by James B. Richardson, and
the model of a motor garvey from southern New Jersey, donated by
the builder, W. R. Main. Other specimens of note are a working
scale model of an Italian coal-fired locomotive with tender, flatcar,
extra assemblies, and spare parts, donated by Richard D. Boutros,
and the Bayly gig, which has been on loan by the heirs of the Bayly
and Orem families for a number of years.

Arts and manufactures —A significant acquisition in the division
of textiles is a reconstructed model of John Hargreave’s spinning
jenny. This model, which demonstrates Hargreave’s original con-
ception, was built in the Exhibits Laboratory by Robert Sampson
from the specifications in Hargreave’s patent of 1770. An interest-
ing collection of handwoven fabrics made in the South during the
Civil War was presented by Mrs. N. C. Browder. A beautiful and
rare cashmere shawl with a turquoise center was presented by Miss
Sabra O. Burgess, and four silk shawls were given by Miss M. Agnes
Neill.

The division of ceramics and glass acquired a rare pressed-glass
ornamented pane believed to be the earliest marked piece of Wheeling
lacy glass manufactured by J. & C. Ritchie, Wheeling, W. Va. This
specimen was purchased with funds provided by W. Daniel Quattle-
baum of California. Fifty ceramic and glass items from the collec-
tion of the late Aaron Straus, Baltimore philanthropist, were given
by the Straus Foundation.

The important accessions in the division of graphic arts are a gift
by Capt. Emerson E. Morris of 10 etchings by Pierre van der Borcht
(1545-1608) ; a color lithograph, “Go and Catche a Falling Starre”
by June Wayne, presented by the Society of Washington Print-
makers; and 12 pictorial photographs by Clarence John Laughlin of
New Orleans, one of this country’s outstanding photographic artists,
received as a gift from the Eickemeyer endowment fund. <A box-
type camera by one of America’s earliest daguerreotype photogra-
phers, Henry Fitz, Jr., was received as a gift from Mrs. Willard H.
Howell. A camera of the pioneer western photographer James Fen-
nemore was presented by Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona.

Civil history—The most significant acquisition in the division of
political history is the collection of Lincoln memorabilia presented
by his great-grandson, Lincoln Isham. Mary Todd Lincoln’s silver
tea and coffee service, President Lincoln’s watch, his silver cutlery,
and presentation revolver are some of the items in the collection.
Additional important pieces of White House china were received. A
salad plate and three oyster plates from the state service used during
the administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes were given by
Col. Theodore Barnes, and a dinner plate from the state service of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

President Benjamin Harrison was presented by Mrs. Samuel
Schwartz. The First Ladies collection was enhanced by the loan of
the inaugural dress of Dolley Madison from the William Rockhill
Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City.

The division of cultural history acquired the furnishings and fit-
tings of the Stohlman Confectionery Shop originally installed in
Georgetown, D.C., in 1900. This remarkable accession with its ice-
cream parlor, its ornate cabinetwork, candy jars, fancy ice-cream
molds, and countless other minutiae will serve to document a pic-
turesque phase of late Victorian urban life. A complete set of orig-
inal furnishings from a 19th-century parlor in a Thomaston, Maine,
house was donated by the Misses Helen R. and Elizabeth W. New-
combe. The carpet, mirror, sofas, and side chairs will make it pos-
sible to reproduce authentically the parlor of a rural Victorian
gentleman.

Among the outstanding accessions received in the division of
numismatics are 22 die proofs of vignettes used for Canadian cur-
rency, donated by the British American Bank Note Co., Ottawa;
664 Chinese cash pieces transferred by the Library of Congress; 1
Continental $60 note, issued September 1778, donated by Consul J.
Warner; 4 Byzantine gold solidi and 2 modern Greek gold coins,
given by M. Tambakis. Senator Harry Byrd donated three $1,000
bonds and five $500 bonds issued by the Confederate States of Amer-
ica in 1861 and 1863. A rare copper plate made by Charles Toppan
& Co. and used about 1835 by the New Haven County Bank for the
printing of $10, $20, $50, and $100 notes was presented by the New
Haven Bank, Conn., through Comptroller W. F’. Hasse, Jr. Showing
his continued interest in the growth of the national coin collections,
Paul A. Straub donated a group of rare Holy Roman Empire gold
coins struck in Hungary and Carinthia, and an unusual Prussian
taler struck in 1719 in the name of Frederick Wilhelm I.

The division of philately and postal history received an excep-
tionally large accession through the transfer of 5,801,500 United
States obsolete revenue stamps from the Internal Revenue Service.
Former Postmaster James A. Farley converted a loan of 8,835 speci-
mens to a gift. A rarity, the United States 24-cent airmail stamp
with inverted center, was donated by the Raymond H. Weill Co. Sid-
ney N. Shure of Chicago presented the first issue of Israel complete
in sheets. An airmail collection of Albania and Bulgaria, a stamp
collection of Czechoslovakia in 17 volumes, and a 5-volume collec-
tion of Rocket Mail were presented by Tom Lowenstein. An official
presentation booklet of stamps of the United Nations for use in the
European Office (Swiss overprints) was donated by John M. Harlan,
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. |
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

Documentary research revealed the existence of an 18th-century
courthouse on the south bank of Potomac Creek across from Mar]-
borough Town, Va. To verify the 1743 land survey and to locate
and determine the type of structure, F. M. Setzler, head curator, de-
partment of anthropology, directed archeological excavations on the
Williams site south of Stony Point. During the week of August
19-28, 1957, in collaboration with C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator
of cultural history, and Prof. Oscar Darter of Mary Washington
College, Fredericksburg, Va., he exposed the brick foundation of a
T-shaped building, which in genera! outline and size resembled the
1780 type of courthouses, such as those now extant in Hanover, King
William, and Charles City Counties, Va. This project is one phase
of a research program begun in 1956 at Marlborough Town.

During the period October 7 to November 22, 1957, Head Curator
Setzler excavated the Welcome Mound along the Ohio River in West
Virginia. The excavation of this large prehistoric Indian mound
was made possible through the generous cooperation of the Colum-
bia-Southern Chemical Corporation, on whose property the mound
was located. The company furnished laborers, bulldozer, an en-
gineer, and laboratory facilities. The mound measured 110 feet in
diameter and 20 feet in height. Even though the quantity of arti-
facts was limited, the quality exceeded objects from other mounds
of this cultural horizon. On the basis of potsherds and projectile
points, Welcome Mound is classified as a middle Adena site represent-
ing a period of approximately 500 B.C. The most important artifact
recovered was a carved effigy tubular smoking pipe in the form of a
shoveler duck’s head and neck, found at the right knee of one of the
adult skeletons. Two others were buried at the base of the mound.
In the mouth cavity of one of these skeletons the canine tooth of a
mountain lion was found. Based on evidence from other Adena
mounds, this tooth could indicate that the body had been interred
wearing a mountain-lion facial mask. In connection with this archeo-
logical research program, Mr. Setzler visited the Ohio State Museum,
Columbus, and the University of Kentucky Museum, Lexington, from
April 28 to May 4, 1958, to examine and study the collections of
archeological material excavated from other Adena mounds in those
States. He also examined collections from other prehistoric cultural
levels looking toward the future medernization of the Museum’s ex-
hibition halls pertaining to American archeology.

From October 9, 1957, to January 14, 1958, Dr. T. Dale Stewart,
curator of physical anthropology, was in Baghdad, Iraq, restoring,
studying, and making casts of the Neanderthal skeleton that had been
discovered in Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq, by Dr. Ralph S. Solecki
SECRETARY’S REPORT 23

in 1957 prior to his joining the Museum’s staff as an associate curator
in Old World archeology. Dr. Stewart, invited by the Iraqian Gov-
ernment to repair and restore the skuli and postcranial skeleton, not
only found it more complex than anticipated but also discovered that
owing to an injury of the brachial plexus the right shoulder and arm
of the 45,000-year-old Neanderthaler had been paralyzed. This
paralysis caused the right humerus to atrophy. The distal end and
forearm were missing. After completing this difficult task of restor-
ing a badly broken skull, Dr. Stewart made a mold and plaster casts.
He was permitted by the Iraqian Government to bring one of the
casts to the Smithsonian Institution, the first to reach this country.
On his return trip to Washington he visited with physical anthropolo-
gists in Turkey, Rome, France, and England, all of whom were
pleased to examine the cast of the Shanidar skull.

In connection with his long-range research program of compara-
tive studies of Micronesian material culture, Dr. S. H. Riesenberg,
acting curator of ethnology, spent two weeks examining and studying
the Micronesian collections at the Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass.;
Dartmouth Museum, Hanover, N. H.; and Fairbanks Museum, St.
Johnsbury, Vt. The Peabody Museum collections include some of
the objects collected by the first Europeans to explore these islands.
While in Chicago during Christmas week he made a similar survey
of Micronesian artifacts at the Chicago Natural History Museum.
This trip enabled him to interview several specialists in African eth-
nology in respect to the appointment of an associate curator for his
division.

While attending meetings of the American Anthropological As-
sociation in Chicago during Christmas week, Dr. Clifford Evans, as-
sociate curator in archeology, examined the archeological collections
excavated at Cuenca in the highlands of Ecuador by Dr. Donald
Collier and found pottery types similar to those excavated on the
Rio Babahoyo along the coast of Ecuador. From May 11 through
17 Dr. Evans visited Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., the
American Museum of Natural History, and the Museum of the
American Indian, New York City, to compare the pottery he and Dr.
Meggers excavated on the Rio Napo in Ecuador, and from sites on
the middle Amazon excavated by Peter P. Hilbert, with that from
sites in eastern Peru. This constitutes one phase of a long-range
program of archeological research in South America.

Dr. M. T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthropology,
spent two days at Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pa.,
conferring with Drs. H. Schraer and P. Baker of the Bone Density
Research and Evaluation Center in connection with the data he

492520—59——_3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

accumulated at Hacienda Vicos, Callejon de Huaylas, North Central
Sierra, Peru.

The Museum’s new associate curator in Old World archeology, Dr.
Ralph Solecki, attended an interdisciplinary symposium at the Uni-
versity of Chicago’s Oriental Institute from May 8 to 11. This
meeting emphasized the contributions that can be made by zoologists,
agronomists, geologists, and other specialists in solving problems
arising from the excavation of Neolithic and Paleolithic archeologi-
cal sites. The Shanidar Cave, in Iraq, excavated by Dr. Solecki, pro-
duced evidence of a very stable animal population over a period of
100,000 years. He reported that the evidence from Shanidar Cave
showed that the earliest animal and plant domestication probably
took place within the past 12,000 years.

Assistant Curator of Ethnology R. A. Elder, Jr., spent a day in
February and one in April selecting and transporting an unusual col-
lection of Asiatic and Far Eastern objects from Baltimore, Md., do-
nated to the national collections by the Aaron and Lillie Straus
Foundation, Inc.

C. V. Morton, acting curator of cryptogams, again participated
in the American Fern Society field trip, and from August 21 to 25
collected ferns from Stanford University north along the Redwood
highway to Eureka, Calif. He also attended the meetings of the
American Institute of Biological Sciences at Stanford University.

From October 8 to December 28, 1957, Dr. Egbert H. Walker,
associate curator of phanerogams, traveled to Japan, Okinawa,
Taiwan, Thailand, Viet Nam, and the Philippines. He participated
in the Ninth Pacific Science Congress in Bangkok, and enroute ex-
amined, studied, and collected plants in Japan, Okinawa, and Taiwan,
in preparation of a manuscript on the flora of Okinawa and the
southern Ryukyus.

Dr. Mason E. Hale, associate curator of cryptogams, spent several
days in October examining collections of West Indian lichens at
Harvard University, Wellesley College, Yale University, and the
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Dr. Hale also col-
lected lichens in Virginia, North Carolina, and the coastal plain of
Florida. While in Florida during April he participated in the an-
nual meeting of the Association of Southeastern Biologists at
Tallahassee.

In August 1957 and again in May 1958, Dr. Richard S. Cowan,
associate curator of phanerogams, spent several days at the New
York Botanical Garden checking manuscripts with plant collections
and completing his portion of the Index Nomina Genericorum.

In September 1957, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, acting head curator of
zoology, attended the annual meeting of the American Ornitholo-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

gists’ Union at Cape May, N.J. In November he studied and de-
scribed the African viduine weaverbirds at Yale University and
the American Museum of Natural History in order to complete his
manuscript on this group.

On June 4, 1958, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mam-
mals, returned from an extended field trip in North Africa. The
first 2 weeks of May he spent excavating burrows of rodents in the
vicinity of Wadi Natroun, Faiyum Province, and near the village of
Abu Rawash. From May 17 to 24 he collected mammals in the
vicinity of St. Catherine’s Monastery in southern Sinai. The last
week was spent in the Delta and eastern desert region.

From January 15 to March 15, 1958, Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr.,
associate curator of mammals, continued his mammal survey of
Panama, which yielded over 700 specimens of mammals. Several
species new to Panama were collected, and evidence was obtained to
show that there is more mingling of South and Central American
faunas in the isthmus than was heretofore suspected. In November
1957 Dr. Handley studied the greater and lesser pigmy sperm whales
at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard and at the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History. In September 1957 he spent 2
weeks with museum aides J. L. Paradiso and B. R. Feinstein collect-
ing smal] mammals along the Clinch Mountain range in southwestern
Virginia. In March 1958 Mr. Paradiso roughed out and shipped to
the Museum from Vero Beach, Fla., the skeleton of a beaked whale.

From July 5 to August 4, 1957, Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator
of insects, visited Europe principally to pack and ship a large col-
lection of insects assembled by Eng. F. Tippmann in Vienna,
Austria. In England he conferred with the entomologists at the
British Museum. In January 1958 Dr. Clarke spent 2 days at St.
Lawrence University, Canton, N.Y., where he acquired the John
Buys collection of leafhoppers (Cicadellidae), which contains speci-
mens from Formosa and new forms from Honduras heretofore not
represented in the Museum. On May 5, 1958, he returned from an
extensive collecting trip on the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Ex-
pedition. He accompanied the leader of the expedition, Dr. Waldo
L. Schmitt, former head curator of zoology, and now research associ-
ate. ‘This expedition was made possible through the continued gen-
erosity of Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Greenville, Del. For 6
weeks the scientists were enabled to collect zoological specimens among
the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles.

Two and a half weeks were spent by Dr. R. E. Crabill, Jr., associate
curator of insects, studying type specimens at Harvard and collect-
ing myriapods and spiders in Massachusetts, Vermont, and the Lake
Placid section of New York.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Dr. L. P. Schultz, curator of fishes, spent 2 weeks in November
1957 repacking and shipping the Col. John K. Howard collection of
fishes at the University of Miami, Fla. Enroute Dr. Schultz visited
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service laboratories and university lab-
oratories in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
From April 7 to 11, 1958, Dr. Schultz attended a symposium in
New Orleans, La., on the attacks made by sharks.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate, represented the Smith-
sonian Institution at the Pan African Ornithological Congress, held
at Livingstone, Northern Rhodesia, from July 15 to 20, 1957. Over
200 persons were in attendance, including delegates from several coun-
tries of western Europe and from the United States, in addition to
those engaged in investigations in this field in the various countries
of Africa. The occasion was especially important as it was the first
meeting of the kind on that continent. Enroute to the Congress
there was opportunity to cross through the Wankie Game Reserve
and afterward to spend 6 days observing the birds and mammals of
the Kruger National Park. Following this Dr. Wetmore visited
scientific institutions and laboratories in Johannesburg, Pretoria,
Durban, and Capetown, Union of South Africa, and had 3 days for
observations near Dakar in Senegal. He returned to Washington
via Lisbon on August 13.

In January 1958 he returned to Panama to continue field investi-
gations of the birdlife of the Isthmus. Through the kindness of
H. V. T. Mais, agent for the Chiriqui Land Co. in Panama, and
G. D. Munch, manager of the Bocas del Toro Division of that com-
pany, arrangement had been made for quarters in Almirante, Prov-
ince of Bocas del Toro, an area not previously visited. This is an im-
portant region for study because of species of birds found farther
north along the Caribbean that here enter Panama and reach their
southern limits in this section. Field equipment was shipped on
January 13 by Cessna-180 4-passenger plane since the airport serving
Almirante at the town of Bocas del Toro was closed temporarily to
larger aircraft. There is no true dry season in this section of Pan-
ama, and rains came almost daily. While the higher areas of level
land had been cleared for cultivation, forest remained over extensive
sections of swamp, and on the hills bordering small stream valleys,
as well as on the large islands in Almirante Bay.

Fieldwork continued here 2 months, with a trip each week up the
line of railroad into the banana plantations that extend from the
Changuinola River to Guabito on the Costa Rican border. Travel
elsewhere from Almirante was mainly by dugout canoe powered by an
outboard motor, with occasional trips with friends in other craft. T.
W. Dunn was especially helpful through his knowledge of Almirante
SECRETARY’S REPORT 27

Bay gained through fishing excursions. And in the Changuinola
area Roy Roig gave important aid. A nesting colony of red-billed
tropicbirds on Swan Cay in the Caribbean outside the entrance of the
pass Boca del Drago, and another of Audubon’s shearwaters on Tiger
Rock off Chiriqui Point at the end of the Valiente Peninsula, were of
particular interest since these are the only locations known for these
birds in the western Caribbean. ‘Through the help of Mr. Munch in
providing a larger launch, collections were made for 2 days on the
island Escudo de Veraguas 10 miles off the base of the Valiente
Peninsula. A wren, a manakin, and a spiny rat obtained here are
forms previously unknown to science, marked particularly by much
larger size, compared to their relatives on the mainland.

On return to the Canal Zone on March 10 Dr. Wetmore was occupied
the following 2 weeks with further collecting in the savanna areas of
Coclé and in the Province of Panama, including 3 days at La Jagua,
east of Pacora, where the first cattle egrets to be collected in Panama
were taken. ‘This heron has been seen here for 2 years past and ap-
pears now to be fully established. Work for the season ended with
return by air to Washington on March 29.

During September 1957 and again in May 1958 Dr. G. A. Cooper,
head curator of geology, accompanied by R. E. Grant, research as-
sistant, carried forward his long-range research program of solving
the stratigraphic sequence in the Glass Mountains, especially Leonard
Mountain near Marathon in west Texas. Last fall they were for-
tunate in establishing a direct paleontological sequence as well as ob-
taining evidence to show that the big limestones in the Leonard
formation join the basal formation to become a single limestone east
of Sullivan Peak. In May they traced this particular key bed across
the mountain. An effort was made to collect special material for in-
clusion in the modernization of an invertebrate paleontological ex-
hibit hall. In November 1957 Dr. Cooper delivered his presidential
address before the Paleontological Society in Atlantic City, N.J. He
spent several days in Boston the latter part of March examining and
studying Silurian, Devonian, and Recent brachiopods at Harvard
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

From July 12 to August 9 Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator of vertebrate
paleontology, and exhibits specialist F. L. Pearce prospected for and
collected vertebrate fossils in the eastern, central, and western por-
tions of the Bridger Basin around Green River and Lyman, Wyo.
Good results were obtained between Smiths Fork and Blacks Fork.
A rare skull and skeletal material of the Eocene horse Orohippus
were recovered. Dr. Gazin spent a week after August 9 at the Los
Angeles County Museum studying the Eocene collections recently
transferred from the California Institute of Technology. Early in
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

November 1957 he attended the annual meeting of the Society of
Vertebrate Paleontology in Philadelphia, Pa., and the Geological
Society of America meetings in Atlantic City, N.J. During the
first week of December Dr. Gazin studied Eocene and Oligocene col-
lections at Princeton, N.J., and the American Museum of Natural
History. In February 1958 he studied middle Eocene mammalian
collections from the Green River beds of northeastern Utah at the
Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, Pa.

During September 1957 E. P. Henderson, associate curator of
mineralogy and petrology, accompanied by photographer Jack Scott,
made an extensive trip in order to study the morphology and surface
features of meteorites and to photograph large collections. They
spent some time going west and also on their return east at the
Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus, Ohio, witnessing the cut-
ting operation of the Grant, N. Mex., meteorite. Meteoritic iron
requires much more time to cut than one anticipates. These cut sec-
tions will enable the specialist to study the thermal penetration.
Henderson and Scott examined and photographed the meteorites at
the University of Kansas, Iowa State College and the State Univer-
sity of Iowa, Chicago Natural History Museum, and Wooster and
Marietta Colleges in Ohio. These studies are especially important
now that manmade satellites are being placed in outer space. Mr.
Henderson spent 2 days in May examining the meteorite collection
in the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. He also acquired
new material for the Museum’s collections.

Dr. D. H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology,
spent 2 days in October 1957 studying various Mesozoic teleostean
fishes in the Bayet collection of the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh.
In March 1958 he devoted 2 days to the study of a restricted group of
elopoid fishes from the Cope collection at the American Museum of
Natural History.

In the company of two paleontologists of the U.S. Geological
Survey, Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, spent 6 days in the fall of 1957 collect-
ing bryozoans, brachiopods, and corals from all the stratigraphic
zones of middle Devonian rocks along the falls of the Ohio River. Dr.
Boardman attended the annual meeting of the Geological Society of
America in Atlantic City, and in March 1958 he purchased some well-
documented rhomboporoid Bryozoa collected from the middle Devo-
nian Hamilton rocks of the Buffalo, N.Y., area.

Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology
and paleobotany, spent several days in October 1957 examining and
studying Paleozoic echinoid collections at Yale University and Har-
vard University. Here he discovered several type specimens never
SECRETARY’S REPORT 29

before recorded and four specimens which represent a new genus.
Dr. Kier also attended the meetings of the Geological Society of
America in Atlantic City.

In October 1957 Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of verte-
brate paleontology, spent 3 days collecting tetrapods and the skulls
of the rare nectridian Diploceraspis from the upper Mississippian
formation near Greer, W. Va., and the Dunkard series, lower Per-
mian formation of northern West Virginia and southwestern Pennsy]-
vania. In November 1957 and again in February 1958 he spent
several days at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard
University and the American Museum of Natural History examining
and studying fossil amphibians, reptiles, and Permian vertebrates.
From March 15 to May 17, 1958, Dr. Vaughn, accompanied by ex-
hibits worker John E. Ott of the division of vertebrate paleontology
and ranger naturalist R. Donald Widman of the National Park
Service, carried forward an extensive paleontological research pro-
gram in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, and Colorado. Their prin-
cipal objective was collecting fishes, amphibians, and reptiles in the
Permian beds. Several hundred pounds of fossils reached the Mu-
seum as a result of their explorations.

The administrative reorganization of July 1, 1957, created two
units under the United States National Museum, namely the Museum
of Natural History and the Museum of History and Technology. The
staff comprising the latter unit found it necessary to visit many of
the museums, universities, and private collectors in order to exam-
ine, study, purchase, and accept a variety of objects for the new
museum. Every effort was made by the many recently employed
specialists to acquire outstanding examples to illustrate their subject-
matter fields. At the same time every opportunity was taken to per-
fect their program of exhibition. Only the more important phases of
this fieldwork and travel program are here noted:

The Director of the Museum of History and Technology, Frank A.
Taylor, made three important trips in connection with the acquisition
of objects and the use of modern display methods as well as television
facilities for the new museum under construction.

In keeping with the previous program of examining new exhibits
and acquiring important apparatus to illustrate the development of
the physical sciences, Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of science
and technology, completed extensive field trips. From September
15 to October 21 he visited various museums in Denver, Colo.; San
Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, Nevada City, Calif.;
Ames and Jowa City, Iowa; Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.;
and Marietta, Ohio; and participated in a seminar on the history of
science at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. In December
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

1957 he spent 2 days examining old chemical apparatus in the depart-
ment of chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, with a view to ac-
quiring the objects for the exhibits in the Museum of History and
Technology. He also examined some of the rare physics apparatus
at West Point and Columbia University. In January 1958 he ex-
amined historic astronomical apparatus at Case Institute in Cleve-
land. Since the College of William and Mary at Williamsburg was
one of the first in this country to offer instruction in science, Dr. Mult-
hauf spent 2 days there with Professor Pittman and President A. D.
Chandler examining some of the old apparatus used in the teaching
of physics. In April he visited Johns Hopkins University with a
view to acquiring a balance and gas heating device associated with
Ira Remsen. In the department of mineralogy and geology he ex-
plored the possibility of obtaining an early polarizing microscope.

As consultant to the department of engineering for locating 19th-
century chemical and physical laboratory apparatus to illustrate these
disciplines in the new Museum of History and Technology, Dr. Derek
J. Price again made numerous trips to museums, colleges, univers!-
ties, and laboratories. In September 1957 Dr. Price supervised the
transfer of three machines pertaining to Henry Fitz, telescope maker,
in 1850. These machines, together with his tools, speculum blanks,
and many smaller items, should enable the Smithsonian to reconstruct
in the Museum of History and Technology a vivid workshop of
Henry Fitz. In the department of chemistry at Williams College
he was pleased to find a rare cylindrical charcoal-burning chemical
furnace made about 1830. This furnace is similar to those used
centuries before. In the various colleges and universities visited
Dr. Price made several detailed inventories of chemical and physi-
cal apparatus which he regarded as worthy of consideration
for planned exhibits in the Museum of History and Technology.

The curator of the division of mechanical and civil engineering,
Eugene S. Ferguson, attended the annual meeting of the American
Society of Too] Engineers, May 5-7, 1958.

From March 24 to April 2 Howard I. Chapelle, curator of trans-
portation, visited museums, collectors, and model-ship builders in
Mystic and Essex, Conn.; Providence, R.I.; Nantucket Island; and
Salem, Quincy, and Boston, Mass. This trip will prove valuable
in connection with the future exhibits of watercraft in the Museum
of History and Technology.

William N. Watkins, curator of agriculture and wood products,
spent the last week of September and early October studying wood
collections and logging dioramas at the College of Forestry, Syracuse
University, and the Adirondack Museum at Blue Mountain Lake,
N.Y. On February 24, 1958, Mr. Watkins conferred with Prof.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

E.S. Harrar at Duke University School of Forestry, Durham, N.C.,
and studied microscopically many wood sections.

Numerous trips were made by the acting curator of electricity,
W. J. King, in an attempt to acquire original examples and models
of early electrical equipment for the Museum of History and Tech-
nology. In July he visited Great Barrington, Mass., to collect data
on George Stanley and his 1886 installation of an AC power system.
At Pittsfield he conferred with a descendant of S. F. B. Morse, the
inventor of the telegraph. At Philadelphia he examined the
Franklin Institute’s stored collection of early electrical apparatus.
In the fall and winter Mr. King spent some time in Philadelphia,
New York City, and Schenectady, as well as at Princeton and Brown
Universities. In May 1958 he spent several days in New York and
New Jersey, especially at the R.C.A. plants and offices conferring
with General Sarnoff and other members of his staff. Much time
and study were devoted to identification of original electrical ap-
paratus and going over notebooks of famous inventors such as
Langmuir, Elihu Thomson, Morse, and Stanley.

On October 2, 1957, George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medical
sciences, accepted for the Smithsonian Institution a collection of
rare antique drug jars donated by the Bristol-Myers Co. in New York
City. On January 10, while returning from New York, Mr. Griffen-
hagen examined an early pharmaceutical tablet press which will be
donated to the division by Wyeth Laboratories. From March 24 to
27, 1958, he examined pharmaceutical and medical exhibits in Chicago
and participated in the dedication of an 1890 drugstore restoration
at the Wisconsin State Historical Society in Madison, Wis. In
April he attended meetings of the American Institute of the History
of Pharmacy and American Pharmaceutical Association Section on
Historical Pharmacy in Los Angeles, Calif.

During the past year, E. A. Battison, associate curator of mechan-
ical and civil engineering, made several trips throughout the New
England States, as well as New York and Pennsylvania, examining,
collecting, and studying numerous private collections of clocks and
watches ranging from the early handmade wooden clocks to the most
recent electric watch. In addition to this special field, Mr. Battison
examined and collected early machine tools, iron planer lathes, and
locks.

On May 12 and 13 Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of trans-
portation, acquired a valuable collection of early marine engines,
propellers, models, harpoon heads, tools, and boat drawings assembled
by Otis A. Palmer, East Moriches, Long Island, N.Y.

From February 23 to March 1, E. C. Kendall, associate curator
of agriculture and wood products, visited Hadley, Mass., Coopers-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

town, N.Y., and Kinzers, Pa., to examine and collect early examples
of various types of farm machinery.

At the invitation of Dr. J. Stainman, a practicing optometrist,
Associate Curator of Medical Sciences Dr. John B. Blake obtained a
large collection of refracting instruments for the Smithsonian In-
stitution on August 26,1957. In September Dr. Blake spent several
days in Boston and Salem, Mass., and New York City inspecting
and studying collections relating to all phases of medical history.
On October 10, 1957, he acquired a 35-year-old General Electric port-
able X-ray machine in Baltimore, Md. On December 4 and 5 he
examined, with a view to acquiring for the Museum of History and
Technology, old dental instruments from the School of Dentistry
at the University of Pennsylvania. In New York City and Long
Island he obtained two cases of anesthesia material from the Wood
Museum and Dr. W. H. Archer of Pittsburgh, Pa. From March
16 to 22, 1958, he visited the Cleveland Health Museum and the Dit-
trich Museum of Natural History examining a large collection of
medical instruments; and then proceeded to Chicago where he studied
collections at the International College of Surgeons Hall of Fame,
the Chicago Historical Society, and other museums.

Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator of mechanical and civil en-
gineering, spent considerable time throughout the year visiting the
engineering schools in numerous universities and important engineer-
ing plants inventorying and selecting examples of 19th- and early
20th-century material for the planned exhibits in the new Museum
of History and Technology.

From October 25 to November 4, 1957, the head curator of arts
and manufactures, Dr. P. W. Bishop, was in the vicinity of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., Chicago, Ill., and Dearborn, Mich., endeavoring to de-
termine the type of engine used by Drake in his 1858-59 oil drilling.
In Chicago, Dr. Bishop received excellent cooperation from the Re-
search Plant of Universal Oil Products in planning exhibit models
showing various types of catalytic cracking units. In September
he spent a day at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
another at Lakeville, Conn.

The curator of graphic arts, Jacob Kainen, spent September 9 to
13 in Cleveland looking toward the acquisition of early silk-screen
stencil printing. He also continued his research on J. B. Jackson,
going over references and prints by this artist.

During December 11 to 14, 1957, Miss Grace L. Rogers, acting
curator of textiles, studied various phases of the textile collection
of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the exhibit at Amateur
Needlework of Today, Inc., in New York City. She also conferred
with the donor of an old Jacquard loom now being assembled. After
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

several conferences Miss Rogers has received the cooperation of sev-
eral wool, cotton, silk, and manmade-fiber institutes and associations
in supplying material for the new textile exhibits planned for the
Museum of History and Technology. In the latter part of March
1958 Miss Rogers studied exhibit techniques and storage facilities
at Winterthur Museum, Wilmington, Del. From May 4 to 7, 1958,
she had the unique experience of examining a 8-story woolen mill just
outside Excelsior Springs, north of Kansas City, Mo. This mill,
known as the Watkins Woolen Mill, was closed in 1886, yet remained
completely undisturbed up to the day of Miss Rogers’ visit when
the property was auctioned. She therefore had an opportunity to
examine a middle 19th-century woolen mill even to the extent of
seeing the original machines standing in the same position as they
were in 1886, and in many instances the original leather belts were
still attached to the main drive shafts.

In September 1957 and again in March 1958 Paul V. Gardner,
acting curator of ceramics and glass, visited museums and collector-
dealers in New York City. He examined numerous collections of
porcelain, glass, and enamels which will assist in identification of
objects in his division; studied various methods of exhibition; and
visited with philanthropical collectors who may present objects from
their collections to the Smithsonian Institution. From May 21 to 27
Mr. Gardner examined European porcelain and china-trade items
at the Worcester Art Museum. He also visited collectors in Canton,
Norwood, Newbury, Middleton, Sturbridge, and Boston, Mass.

The head curator of civil history, Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, spent
January 29, 1958, examining the well-documented Edward Andrews
collection of Shaker material objects in New Haven, Conn. In Feb-
ruary he visited Girard College in Philadelphia where he was given
an opportunity to examine the Girard memorabilia. This collection
represents an exceptional group of late Colonial and early Repub-
lican examples of the history of taste. It depicts Girard’s nostalgia
for France, pride in American achievements, and his hobbies of music
and numismatics. In April Dr. Garvan was in New York City
examining collections and consulting with experts on several phases
of the new exhibits under his jurisdiction.

On June 3 and 4, 1958, the acting curator of political history,
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, together with assistant curators Charles
G. Dorman and Mrs. Anne W. Murray and museum aide James Chan-
ning, visited the Chester County Historical Society, West Chester,
Pa., Brandywine Battlefield State Park, Winterthur Museum, and the
Hagley Museum in Delaware. This provided the staff with excep-
tional opportunities to examine collections, study preservation tech-
niques, and observe methods used in preparing exhibits.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural history, in col-
Jaboration with the head curator of anthropology, F. M. Setzler, and
Prof. Oscar Darter of Mary Washington College in Fredericks-
burg, made considerable progress on the excavation of an 18th-cen-
tury courthouse and 17th-century documentary research related to
Marlborough Town, Va. The archeological excavations revealed the
foundations of a T-shaped structure comparable to those well-preserved
18th-century courthouses at Hanover, King William, and Charles
City Counties, Va. In September Mr. Watkins spent several days
searching documents at the Virginia State Library, Richmond, in
connection with the 1956 excavations at Marlborough Town, and a
mass of data concerning John Mercer and his mansion and estate
at Marlborough. On November 30, 1957, he discovered a 1744-49
ledger of John Mercer at the Bucks County Historical Society,
Doylestown, Pa. This important document provides very pertinent
information for the interpretation of the Marlborough site. In Oc-
tober Mr. Watkins spent several days visiting various museums in
connection with his long-range research program in the documenta-
tion of 17th-century pottery. He spent December 4, 1957, at Winter-
thur, Wilmington, Del., examining room interiors for consideration
in plans of exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology.

Throughout the year Francis J. McCall, assistant curator of phi-
lately and postal history, made numerous trips to eastern sections of
the country attending national and local philatelic meetings, display-
ing selected postal material from the national collections, and describ-
ing present and future programs in the division of philately.

The curator of numismatics, Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli, traveled ex-
tensively in order to acquaint professional and amateur coin collectors
with the program, plans, and needs of his division. During the latter
part of August and again in December he conferred with Mrs. Rae V.
Biester, superintendent of the United States Mint in Philadelphia.
During September he interviewed various State bank commissioners
in Connecticut. At Yale University he examined the famous Garvan
collection of gold coins and conferred with the deputy keeper of coins
of the British Museum. In October he attended several numismatic
meetings and studied various aspects of ancient coining techniques at
the Fogg Art Museum in Boston. From May 20 to 24, 1958, Dr.
Stefanelli visited Ottawa where he interviewed officials at the British
American Bank Note Co., the Bank of Canada, Canadian Archives,
and the Canadian Mint. In the Canadian Archives he examined a
rare 1792 Indian Peace Medal. At the mint he examined coins, medals,
and special decorations. As a result of his visit, the division will
receive a special set of mint coins. In June he visited the headquarters
of the Georgia State Bank in Atlanta, as well as Dahloneya, site of the
old United States branch mint,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 35

The associate curator of political history, Mrs. Margaret B. Klap-
thor, visited James Goodin of Reiglesville, Pa., where she inspected
authentic costumes of President Madison’s family, especially the re-
cently discovered dress, shoes, gloves, and turban of Dolley Madison.
In New York City she accepted delivery of Lincoln relics offered to
the museum by Lincoln Isham.

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political history, visited
Albany Institute of History; the home of Gen. Philip Schuyler in
Albany; Fort Crailo in Rensselaer, N.Y.; Bennington Historical Mu-
seum; Shelburne Museum near Burlington, Vt.; and other historic
houses in New England. In February 1948 he carried forward
research at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

From September 23 to 27, 1957, the associate curator of cultural
history, G. Carroll Lindsay, examined archives in Richmond, Isle of
Wight, and Southampton courthouses in order to document the panel-
ing now on exhibition in the Virginia Room. He established owner-
ship of the property from the time of the original patent in the 17th
century. He spent March 30 to April 4, 1958, in Alton, IIl., selecting
objects from a large collection of decorative art objects of the Victorian
period (1850-1915) which had been willed to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution by the late Miss Daisy Templin and donated by her living
brother, Roger Pryor Templin. On June 10 Mr. Lindsay acquired at
the Parke-Bernet Galleries a life-size cigar-store Indian princess
through the generosity of Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post May.

Miss Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator of cultural history, spent
October 25 to November 4, 1957, in Boston, Salem, Worcester, New-
buryport, Mass., and New York City studying period rooms and deco-
rative arts related to American and English interior decorations in
the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries.

The head curator of armed forces history, Mendel L. Peterson,
spent 8 days in September 1957 probing the Pamunkey River, 25
miles northeast of Richmond, to locate a shipwreck believed to have
been sunk during General McClellan’s drive on Richmond in 1862.
Together with a professional diver, Mr. Peterson found the wreck
in 15 feet of muddy water. By the use of anchor chains, to prevent
injury to themselves, they were able to examine and partially identify
the vessel. Thus far no documentation concerning the sinking of
such a vessel has been discovered in Civil War archives. The hull
measured at least 200 feet in length; it was burned before sinking;
the bow section had broken away from the hull probably through an
explosion of gunpowder or boiler. A few days in February and
again in March Mr. Peterson studied archival records at the New
York Public Library and consulted with Edwin A. Link on plans
for a continuation of their program of underwater salvage of historic
vessels.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

In September 1957 E. M. Howell, acting curator of military history,
spent 8 days in Chicago and Milwaukee studying collections of arms
and armor at various museums. In March 1958 he visited the Metro-
politan Museum of Art and New York Historical Society examining
collections of powderhorns, Colt revolvers, Revolutionary War Brit-
ish insignia, and colonial-type armor.

Through an exchange the Museum acquired an 1866 model Gatling
gun, which was examined and reported upon by Craddock R. Goins,
Jr., assistant curator of military history. Late in January 1958
Mr. Goins made an extensive trip to the major firearms manufactur-
ing firms in the vicinity of Bridgeport, New Haven, and Hartford,
Conn., and Springfield and Chicopee Falls, Mass.

John E. Anglim, supervisory exhibits specialist, spent 2 days in
Williamsburg, Va., inspecting a variety of exhibition cases, panel,
grid, and light systems. He also studied the interiors of the re-
stored buildings for ideas that might be included in the hall of
18th- and 19th-century furnishings of the Museum of History and
Technology.

In preparation of designing an exhibit to portray hand and photo-
mechanical printing processes, Miss Judith Borgogni, exhibits
worker, visited the New York Public Library in February 1958. To-
gether with exhibits worker Robert B. Widder, she critically exam-
ined the display methods used in the University of Pennsylvania
Museum and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.

Consultant John C. Widener and exhibits worker Thomas G. Baker
spent several days in February 1958 visiting chemical and plastics
manufacturing companies in order to determine the most feasible
method for exhibiting the Museum’s large blue whale.

A detailed analysis of the arms and armor exhibition of the Metro-
politan Museum of Art was made by exhibits worker William B.
Eddy in March 1958. He also scrutinized a variety of exhibits at the
Museum of the City of New York and at the American Museum of
Natural History.

In connection with the planning of a hall of photographic history
in the Museum of History and Technology, Mrs. B. A. W. Karras,
exhibits worker, spent 4 days in April 1958 reviewing the highly
specialized exhibit at George Eastman House, Rochester, N. Y. Even
though technical exhibits comparable to those at Eastman House
will be presented, they must be geared simply and graphically to the
average visitor both as a source of study and for pure enjoyment.

During February 1958 exhibits specialist Benjamin Lawless, Jr.,
and exhibits worker Robert B. Widder made extensive examinations
of museum displays, new buildings under construction, and archi-
tectural offices in New York City.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 37

From March 12 to 15, 1958, Ronald Tavares, exhibits worker,
visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art; the Museum of the City of
New York; the Peabody Museum of Salem; and the Boston Fine
Arts Museum of Massachusetts. He was especially interested in
those exhibits illustrating the development and history of water-
craft.

William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist, inspected the
tanning of a large elephant hide at Waynesboro, Va., on several days
during the month of October 1957.

From October 8 to 11, 1957, Watson M. Perrygo, zoological ex-
hibits worker, visited New York City and Philadelphia where he
investigated various plastic-manufacturing companies in order to
produce on a large scale museum accessories such as leaves, vines,
branches, grass, and other botanical objects. In November 1957 he
spent 3 days with George Young, chief of the exhibition department
at Kansas University Natural History Museum. Here he had an
opportunity to study methods of making plastic exhibition accessories
by hydraulic press.

John C. Lingebach, zoological exhibits worker, spent several days
in April 1958 collecting a variety of mammals for the exhibits now
under construction in the mammal hall. Most of Mr. Lingebach’s
collecting on this trip and again in May was in the vicinity of
Wardensville, Yellow Springs, North Mountain, and Capon Springs,
W. Va.

EXHIBITIONS

During the fifth year of the continuing program for the moderni-
zation of exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution, $605,000 was made
available by congressional appropriation for selected exhibition halls.
Construction bids were received in February 1958 for the halls de-
voted to fossil invertebrates and fossil cold-blooded vertebrates
(fishes, amphibians, and reptiles), in June 1958 for North American
archeology, and in June 1958 for the hall of agriculture to be located
in the east-south range of the Arts and Industries building. Con-
struction work for the textiles hall was commenced in September
1st:

The new hall of health was opened to the public on the evening of
November 2, 1957, in ceremonies featuring addresses by Dr. John D.
Porterfield, Deputy Surgeon General of the Public Health Service,
Dr. Fred L. Soper, Director of the Pan American Sanitary Bureau,
and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. “Through the Ages, Man’s Knowledge of His Body” is the
theme of this hall, which contrasts old ideas with present-day know]-
edge of human anatomy and physiology. Emphasis is placed on
health rather than disease, and modern exhibit techniques are utilized
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

to demonstrate the functioning of a the normal, healthy human body.
A transparent manikin of a woman shows by electronic devices, light,
and sound the location of the major organs of the human bedy and
explains their functions. Among other exhibits are those that illus-
trate the heart, teeth, endocrine glands, and the brain. Historical
displays include reproductions of votive offerings by primitive peo-
ples, ancient manuscripts, and pages from the earliest printed books
illustrating embryology, the skeleton, the heart and blood circulation,
the brain, and the digestive and respiratory systems.

During the year a pictorial exhibit on the history of surgery,
donated by the American Cyanamid Co., was renovated. The Na-
tional Library of Medicine has lent the following exhibits: Vaccina-
tion from Jenner to Salk; Nobel Prize Winners in Medicine; William
Harvey and the Circulation; and Women Physicians and Their
Hospitals.

On the evening of December 8, 1957, Secretary Carmichael dedi-
cated the hall of North American Indians and Eskimos, and in his
address paid tribute to the farsighted men and women who had dur-
ing the past 150 years saved from possible destruction the ethnological
objects displayed therein. Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd, administrative as-
sistant to the Director of the National Museum and herself of Seneca
Indian descent, was invited to cut the ribbon at the formal opening.
Traditional cultures of the Eskimos and of the Indians of the sub-
arctic region, the eastern woodlands, the great plains, the northwest-
ern plateau, and the north Pacific coast are displayed in this hall.
Historically significant objects including the great wampum belt,
symbolizing the union of midwestern tribes formed by the Shawnee
chief Tecumseh to halt the advance of white settlement, and Sitting
Bull’s rifle are featured in these display units. A completely fur-
nished tipi of sewn buffalo hides, some 17 feet in height, depicts the
home life of an Arapaho Indian family during the past century.
Other life-size exhibit units show Polar Eskimos hunting hair seals
and the Powhatan Indians trading with Capt. John Smith on the
James River in 1607.

The gems and minerals hall planned by curator George S. Switzer
was nearing completion at the close of the fiscal year. New exhibition
techniques have been utilized in the display of gems, uncut crystals,
and minerals with gratifying results, particularly with respect to
lighting and reduction of reflection. Installation of the exhibits pro-
ceeded so satisfactorily that formal opening of the hall was scheduled
for July 1958.

Four new habitat groups portraying the sea-bottom life of the
Upper Ordovician, Lower Devonian, Mississippian, and Upper Cre-
taceous are being prepared for the invertebrate hall by George
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

Marchand of Ann Arbor, Mich. The removal of adhering matrix
and the restoration and mounting of a number of fossil fishes and
amphibians for display in the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates were
completed. Retirement of a portion of the geology and meteorite
collections from hall 6 was undertaken to permit the continued dis-
play of the larger Pleistocene mammals.

A group of showy mineral specimens from Arizona and a large
mass of uranium ore from Colorado were lent for exhibition in the
United States Pavilion at the Brussel’s World Fair.

Plans for the modernization of the two halls to be devoted to North
American archeology were developed by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator
of archeology. In the first hall now scheduled for construction,
archeological horizons of the southwestern United States, the Pacific
coast, and Arctic America will be featured. Topical exhibits will
show native mines and quarries, Indian smoking devices, and trade
items found in Indian sites.

At the close of the fiscal year the contractors had almost finished
the construction of the walls and display units in the two halls to be
devoted to the mammals of the world. Preliminary models of the
habitat groups have been prepared for guidance of the exhibits staff,
accessories for some of the habitat groups are now ready for installa-
tion, and a number of mammals required for the display units have
been mounted. During the year the rooms formerly given over to
the display of local natural history, other than birds, were more
urgently needed for other purposes, and, consequently, these displays
were dismantled. When space becomes available, more informative
exhibits will be installed.

The formal opening of the hall of military history on the afternoon
of June 14, 1958, was presided over by Secretary Leonard Carmichael,
who introduced the Honorable Wilber M. Brucker, Secretary of the
Army, who in turn introduced Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, Vice Chief
of Staff, United States Army, and members of their staffs. Secre-
tary Brucker made reference to the Institution’s important role in
encouraging patriotism through the exhibits that interpret the
Army’s long and distinguished role in the history of our country.
At the close of these indoor ceremonies, Secretary Brucker was hon-
ored by a colorful retreat review by the First Battle Group, Third
Infantry Regiment, on the Mall. In the new hall the history and
development of the United States Army from the Colonial militia
to the modern Pentomic Army are traced through the display of fire-
arms, uniforms, weapons, and other items of military equipment.
Unique objects on display include George Washington’s sword carried
in battle throughout the Revolution and the uniform he wore when

492520594
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

he resigned his commission in 1783, De Kalb’s war saddle, an original
Von Steuben drill manual, Rochambeau’s sword, and the uniform
coat worn by General Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans.

The series of new exhibits illustrating the history and methods of
fine printmaking by various hand processes in the graphic arts hall of
the Smithsonian Institution Building was completed at the close of
the fiscal year. Monthly exhibitions of pictorial photography were
continued during the past year, and three special exhibits in graphic
arts were shown.

The east side of the inorganic chemistry gallery was rearranged to
accommodate the leather and saddlery display removed from the
south-central gallery.

Temporary exhibitions during the year included the Sixth Interna-
tional Exhibition of Ceramic Art, August 27 to September 27, 1957,
sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, and a display of over 700
pieces of ancient glass from the Ray Winfield Smith collection dating
from 1500 B.C. to A.D. 1200, shown December 28, 1957, to January
16, 1958.

Existing exhibits were improved during the year by restoration of
the Henry electromagnet and the Morse telegraph, the renovation of
the collection of antique astrolabes, sundials, and compasses, and the
renovation of the Howard tower clock. Ship models in the water-
craft hall were repaired and restored.

In the planning for the exhibition series in the Museum of History
and Technology, the following hall plans have been furnished to the
architect for the detailing of built-in fixtures: Physics and astronomy,
chemistry, heavy machinery, medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, elec-
tricity, watercraft, ceramics, glass, textiles, graphic arts, and
photography.

The south hall of the Arts and Industries Building was closed to
the public in July 1957; the former exhibits of textiles were dismantled
and the specimens placed in storage. The contractors commenced the
renovation of this hall in September 1957, and by the close of the fiscal
year some progress had been made in the installation of the new ex-
hibits. Three schematics illustrating various spinning principles
have been built and installed, and the renovation of five full-sized ma-
chines has been completed. For the gallery of this south hall, plans
for renovation were completed, and a contract for the necessary con-
struction was awarded in April 1958. In this gallery, methods of
printing fabrics, specimens of needlework, and the history of the sew-
ing machine will be featured.

Plans and designs for four halls in the Museum of History and
Technology which will emphasize different aspects of the civil history
of our Nation were completed. These halls have been designated as
SECRETARY’S REPORT 41

follows: Historic Americans; Everyday Life in the American Past;
Costumes; and First Ladies. Rearrangement and expansion of the
White House china collection were effected during the year.

The educational program of volunteer docent guide service con-
ducted with the cooperative assistance of the Junior League of
Washington, for the benefit of the school children of the Greater
Washington area, was continued with increasing success. The work
is under the general direction of Frank M. Setzler, head curator of
anthropology, working with Mrs. Peter Macdonald, chairman rep-
resenting the Junior League.

During the 6-month season 320 tours—an average of 53 a month—
were conducted, in which 8,790 elementary school children were es-
corted through the four exhibit halls included in the docent
program—the American Indian Hall, the Hall of Everyday Life in
Early America, the First Ladies Hall, and the Hall of Power Ma-
chinery. This was an almost threefold increase in this activity over
the previous year. In addition to Mrs. Macdonald and her cochair-
man, Mrs. George Wyeth, Jr., the following members of the Junior
League participated in the work of conducting the tours: Mrs.
George A. Armstrong, Mrs. John K. Barry, Miss Eleanor Bishop,
Mrs. G. Edwin Brown, Jr., Miss Joan Burke, Mrs. Paul Campbell,
Mrs. Dean Cowie, Mrs. Charles Donnelly, Mrs. Walter Edwards, Mrs.
C. Clarke Gearhart, Mrs. Walter A. Graves, Mrs. H. F. Gregory,
Mrs. R. David Herdman, Mrs. Edward M. Lamont, Mrs. John A.
Manfuso, Jr., Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert L. McCormick,
Mrs. William E. Minshall, Jr., Mrs. John Schoenfeld, Mrs. W. D.
Sloan, Jr., Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, Mrs.
Richard F. Wallis.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

At the close of the fiscal year, the temporary buildings on the site
for the new Museum of History and Technology were being torn
down to clear the land. The architects, McKim, Mead & White, sub-
mitted drawings for the entire building in the tentative stage, made
excellent progress on the working drawings, and completed the speci-
fications and drawings for the excavation and foundations. ‘The de-
sign of this museum building previously approved by the Board of
Regents of the Institution, with the advice of the Joint Congressional
Committee, was approved unanimously by the Commission of Fine
Arts. The National Capital Planning Commission approved the
location of the building on the site.

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, chairman of the Joint Committee
on Construction of a Building for the Museum of History and 'Tech-
nology for the Smithsonian Institution, submitted to the United
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

States Senate a report from the committee which reviews the legisla-
tive history of the building and the progress made in its design.
This report was printed as Senate No. 1437, 85th Congress, 2d session,
April 16, 1958.

Planning for this new building was directed by Frank A. Taylor,
Director of the Museum of History and Technology. Designs for
most of the exhibition halls requiring special architectural treatment
were completed by the Museum staff, and the architects prepared
the working drawings. John C. Ewers, administrative officer, di-
rected the Museum staff engaged in the planning of all interior areas.
Eugene Kingman, Director of the Josyln Art Museum, Omaha,
reviewed many of the plans for exhibition halls and contributed
constructive criticism.

Funds for the design and the preparation of working drawings
for the construction of additions to the Natural History Building
were appropriated by Congress. The architects, Mills, Petticord &
Mills, have submitted tentative drawings with a model of the building
when completed and have made excellent progress with the working
drawings. The Museum committee for the planning of the wings
under the chairmanship of Dr. T. Dale Stewart, together with the
curators of the natural history divisions, completed a detailed pro-
gram of requirements which materially advanced the preparation of
plans and estimates.

Throughout the year’s planning of the two building projects, the
Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administration
contributed valuable advice and assistance in advancing, coordinating,
and approving the plans. Leonard L. Hunter, Assistant Commis-
sioner for Design and Construction, gave helpful advice and pro-
fessional direction to the progress of the work through the various
technical stages and presented the building plans before the approv-
ing agencies. Many of his colleagues materially advanced these
projects. John E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service,
assigned as liaison to the Smithsonian Institution, contributed greatly
to all phases of the two projects, assembling data on requirements,
advising the Museum staff on the arrangement of their planned facili-
ties, and assisting the architects in arranging discussions and ob-
taining decisions on many questions of design and procedure.

Contracts were let for completion of the replacement of the roof
covering on the Natural History Building, the first phase of which
was completed in the fiscal year of 1957. The work will include
covering all skylights with metal and the installation of fluorescent
lighting above the laylight glass. Covering of the skylights will
permit uniform lighting in the three large halls and eliminate water
leakage, which is impossible to control fully in large areas of skylight
glass.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 43

The west shipping entrance of the Natural History Building was
remodeled to provide a stockroom for the supply division and a more
adequate mail room, utilizing space heretofore used to garage Smith-
sonian trucks. An additional shipping entrance door was provided
by remodeling a window between the two existing doors. Supply
division offices were moved into the former stockroom after that
space was renovated.

Meeting room 43 was completely renovated. The work included an
acoustic tile ceiling, additional lighting, relocation of the projection
equipment, a new projection screen, tile floor covering, and improved
ventilation.

All exterior windows of the Arts and Industries Building were
painted, and new glass to provide better illumination was installed in
the large windows of the exhibit halls.

New concrete sidewalks were laid along both sides of the west serv-
ice road, Arts and Industries Building. A new service road was
laid along the west side of this building, and the service road along
the east side was resurfaced. Completion of this project eliminated
service hazards.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Effective July 1, 1957, the United States National Museum con-
sists of two units, namely, the Museum of Natural History (with its
four departments of anthropology, zoology, botany, and geology) and
the Museum of History and Technology (with its four departments
of science and technology, arts and manufactures, civil history, and
Armed Forces history). Under this new organizational setup, the
old department of engineering and industries and the department of
history were abolished.

Frank A. Taylor was promoted to Director of the Museum of
History and Technology on April 16, 1958.

In the department of civil history, Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan
accepted an appointment as head curator on October 9, 1957. Paul
V. Gardner, on July 1, 1957, was transferred from the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts to the position of acting curator of ceramics and
glass; Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli was appointed assistant curator of
numismatics on September 23, 1957; and Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn
became acting curator of political history on February 3, 1958.

Vacancies in the department of science and technology were filled
by the appointment of Dr. John B. Blake as associate curator of
medical sciences on July 1, 1957; Robert M. Vogel as assistant curator
of mechanical and civil engineering on July 22, 1957; Howard I.
Chapelle as curator of transportation on September 3, 1957; and
Eugene 8. Ferguson as curator of mechanical and civil engineering
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

on January 30, 1958. Dr. Derek Price, consultant for exhibits of
physics and astronomy, completed his assignment on January 3, 1958.

In the department of geology, Dr. Richard S. Boardman transferred
from the U.S. Geological Survey to the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany on July 1, 1957; Dr. Peter P. Vaughn
accepted an appointment as associate curator of vertebrate paleon-
tology effective July 15, 1957; Paul E. Desautels was appointed as-
sociate curator of mineralogy and petrology on August 5, 1957; and
Roy 8S. Clarke, Jr., transferred as chemist to the division of min-
eralogy and petrology from the U.S. Geological Survey on October
21,1957. Dr. Porter M. Kier, appointed associate curator of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany on June 16, 1957, was inadvert-
ently omitted from the list of new appointments during the previous
fiscal year.

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki accepted an appointment of associate curator
of prehistoric Old World archeology on August 26, 1957, following
his return from archeological fieldwork on the Shanidar, Iraq,
project.

On March 27, 1958, Bela S. Bory was appointed supervisory ex-
hibits specialist and placed in charge of the production laboratory
of the Museum of History and Technology.

J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator of military history, retired
on June 30, 1957, after 42 years of service with the Institution.

Robert S. Woodbury, curator in charge of the sections of civil
and mechanical engineering, resigned July 9, 1957, to return to his
former position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Grace E. Glance, associate curator of entomology, retired July
31, 1957. Miss Glance transferred to the division of entomology
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1948 after having been
employed in the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine since
1925.

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator of philately and postal
history, by lateral transfer on November 18, 1957, became director
of the division of philately of the Post Office Department.

Herbert W. Krieger, curator of ethnology, retired November 30,
1957, after having served 33 years in the department of anthropology.
Mr. Krieger had participated in fieldwork sponsored by the Insti-
tution in southeast Alaska, Santo Domingo, Haiti, Cuba, the Bahama
Islands, and the Virgin Islands.

After having served more than 48 years as taxidermist on the
exhibits staff, Charles R. Aschemeier retired May 31,1958. He repre-
sented the Smithsonian Institution on the Collins-Garner Expedition
to the Fornan Vaz District of Belgian Congo, where fieldwork was
SECRETARY'S REPORT 45

continued for more than 2 years as a result of transportation difii-
culties during World War I.

Lee L. Buchanan, research associate in entomology, died in Wash-
ington, D.C., on February 15, 1958. Buchanan, an authority on
weevils, had served as assistant biologist in the Bureau of Biological
Survey from 1917 to 1929, and remained in the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine from 1929
to 1949 when he retired for health reasons. He was appointed a
specialist for the Casey Collection of Coleoptera on April 1, 1926.

Dr. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator since January 11, 1901,
and research associate in zoology since December 27, 1956, died in
Washington, D.C., on March 28, 1958. Dr. Richardson was a world
authority on the isopod crustaceans and published more than 80
papers, including the monograph of the isopods of North America
which appeared in 1905 and which is still a standard reference work
on the group.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineron Kexioas, Director.

Dr. Leonard CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeo-
logic remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES
(Prepared from data submitted by staff members.)

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology
from 1928 to 1947 and Director since 1947, retired on December 31,
1957. At that time he was appointed a research associate. During
the period from July 1 to December 31, 1957, Dr. Stirling devoted
most of his time to administrative duties and the preparation of a
manuscript pertaining to previous fieldwork in Panama and Ecuador.
Effective January 1, 1958, Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate
Director, was appointed Director. He also continued to be in charge
of the River Basin Surveys.

During the fiscal year Dr. Roberts devoted most of his time to the
management of the River Basin Surveys and subsequently to the
duties of the main Bureau office. In July and early August he made
an inspection trip to the Missouri Basin where he visited all the ex-
cavation parties of the River Basin Surveys and also several of those
from cooperating institutions. He was accompanied by Dr. Robert
LL. Stephenson, chief of the Missouri Basin Project, Dr. John M. Cor-
bett, National Park Service archeologist, and Paul L. Beaubien, re-
gional archeologist for Region Two of the Service. Late in April
Dr. Roberts went to the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., to assist
in preparing plans for the field season in the Missouri Basin. From
Lincoln, in company with several members of the Missouri Basin
Project staff, he went to Norman, Okla., to attend and participate in
the annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology. From
here the group proceeded to Russellville, Ark., where it inspected the

46
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

excavations being carried on by a River Basin Surveys party in the
Dardanelle Reservoir area. En route back to Lincoln a stop was
made at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville, and a number
of collections of archeological material in the museum there were ex-
amined. After spending several additional days at Lincoln studying
the operations of the office and laboratory, Dr. Roberts returned to
Washington and was in the office at the close of the year. During the
fall and winter months Dr. Roberts reviewed and suggested changes
in the manuscripts of several detailed, technical reports on the results
of excavations at sites in the Missouri Basin and other areas.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo studies
and other Arctic activities. He prepared an article on Eskimo art
for the Enciclopedia Universale Deli’Arte, a 14-volume work to be
published in Italian and English by the Istituto per la Collabora-
zione Culturale, Rome. His paper “Present Status of the Dorset
Problem,” which he presented at the 32d International Congress of
Americanists in Copenhagen, was published in the Proceedings of the
Congress.

In May Dr. Collins participated in an international conference on
Arctic anthropology held at the Danish National Museum in Copen-
hagen. Also attending were five anthropologists from the United
States, one from Canada, four each from Denmark and the
U.S.S.R., and two each from Norway, Sweden, and Finland. The
purpose of the meeting was to discuss plans for closer international
cooperation in Arctic anthropology. Following the conference Dr.
Collins visited a large Mesolithic site, Kongemosen, representing the
formative stage of the Ertebélle culture, and two other Mesolithic
sites at Eriksholm and Langtved, near Holbaek.

Dr. Collins continued to serve on the publications and research
committees of the Arctic Institute of North America, as well as on
the committee which plans the research program of the Arctic Re-
search Laboratory at Point Barrow, operated by the Office of Naval
Research. He also continued as chairman of the Directing Commit-
tee which plans and supervises the work of the Arctic Bibliography,
a comprehensive annotated and indexed bibliography of publications
in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions
of America and Eurasia. The work is being prepared by the Arctic
Institute of North America for the Department of Defense. Volume
8 of the Bibliography, which abstracts and indexes the contents of
5,623 publications in English, Russian, German, and the Scandinavian
and 17 other languages, was delivered to the Government Printing
Office in June. This makes a total of 49,087 publications that have
been abstracted thus far in Arctic Bibliography.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent the week of July 29-
August 4, 1957, in South Carolina working with the last living speaker
of any of the Siouan languages of the east—a Catawba man 85 years
old. The informant proved somewhat less than satisfactory, owing
to his age and rather poor recall of a language he has not spoken for
some years. However, a vocabulary file of a few hundred entries was
built up, and several short texts and songs were collected. In addition
to transcription in a phonetic orthography, all materials were re-
corded with a tape recorder, to form a permanent record of a different
nature than the Catawba linguistic materials collected by others be-
fore the advent of convenient mechanical recording devices with good
fidelity. The language has not yet been adequately analyzed, nor
has its precise relationship to other Siouan languages been established ;
the tape recording will be invaluable when these tasks are eventually
undertaken.

Dr. Sturtevant spent 7 weeks continuing his field research among
the New York State Seneca, during four separate trips. In September
he devoted 10 days to close observation of the work of a skilled
Seneca mask carver on the Allegany Reservation, making detailed
notes on his construction techniques and taking numerous photographs
to document the various steps in the process. For a few days of this
period Dr. Sturtevant received valuable assistance from Dr. William
H. Davenport of Yale University, a specialist on primitive art. It
became evident during this fieldwork that observation of construction
is an essential preliminary to the structural analysis of the forms of
these Seneca masks and will be of considerable assistance in the ethno-
esthetic study initiated during the previous fiscal year. During Jan-
uary and February, Dr. Sturtevant spent about 2 weeks on the
Cattaraugus Reservation attending the annual midwinter ceremony
of this Seneca group and discussing it with participants. The data
obtained form part of a continuing study of the religion of this com-
munity, which has previously received little attention from ethnolo-
gists, in contrast to most other Iroquois non-Christian communities.

In April 1958, Dr. Sturtevant visited Gainesville, Fla., for consul-
tations on Florida anthropology with Dr. John M. Goggin. From
there he traveled to Oklahoma via Montgomery, Ala. (where he ex-
amined the collections of the Alabama Department of Archives and
History), and the region around Philadelphia, Miss. (where he spent
three days surveying the possibilities for research among the Missis-
sippi Choctaw). In Oklahoma he examined the photograph and
specimen collections of the Oklahoma Historical Society, attended
the joint annual meetings of the Society for American Archeology
and the Central States Anthropological Society, and had brief con-
tacts with members of several Oklahoma tribes. Dr. Sturtevant also
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

attended the 11th Conference on Iroquois Research at Red House,
N.Y., in October 1957. At these latter two professional meetings he
delivered three papers. In December 1957 he attended the Ameri-
can Anthropological Association meetings in Chicago (where he also
examined an important collection of Seminole artifacts and a large
newly discovered collection of early photographs of the Seminole).

In May and June 1958, Dr. Sturtevant returned for three weeks
to the Allegany Reservation, where he concentrated on study of social
organization, particularly residence patterns. These data should
prove valuable for comparison with similar information, as yet un-
published, collected some 25 years ago on this reservation by Dr. Wil-
liam N. Fenton. Furthermore, the community studied is threatened
with removal to make way for flooding of a large part of the reserva-
tion by the proposed Kinzua dam. If the dam is built, present resi-
dence patterns can then be compared with residence after relocation
of the community. The nearly unanimous opposition of the Indians
to relocation makes research of this sort rather difficult.

Dr. Sturtevant’s office work included continuation of his research
on the Florida Seminole, on which a paper was published in Publica-
tion No. 5 of the Florida Anthropological Society, and work on a
paper on the historical ethnobotany of the cycad Zamia.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Carl F. Miller was continuing
the excavations by the Smithsonian Institution—National Geographic
Society Expedition at Russell Cave in Alabama. The work continued
until the end of August, and during that period a section of the cave
floor was excavated to a depth of 82 feet, where a water table was
encountered and it was necessary to stop the digging. During the
course of the work the skeletal remains of a very young infant were
found at a depth of approximately 4 feet. On the basis of a carbon—
14 date obtained during the previous season’s investigations at the
cave, it is estimated that the burial was approximately 5,000 years
old. There were no accompanying mortuary offerings, but the de-
posits where the remains were interred indicated that the Early
Woodland Period was represented. The partially flexed remains of
an adult male were found 814 feet below the floor level and it also
lacked any accompanying offerings. The burial probably was made
about 7,000 years ago. The material from the deposits indicates that
potterymaking began in that area at about 3500 B.C. Prior to that
time the people apparently had a completely hunting-fishing economy.
A large series of implements, discarded animal bones, and other ma-
terials was obtained from the lower deposits, and at a depth of 23
feet the remains of a hearth were uncovered. Charcoal from that
hearth was recently dated by Dr. H. R. Crane at the University of
Michigan as being 9,020+350 years old. The Russell Cave Expedi-
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

tion brought back to the Smithsonian Institution somewhat more than
a ton and a half of material for study and exhibit purposes.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys, in cooperation with the National Park
Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the
Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army, and
various State and local institutions, continued its program for salvage
archeology in areas to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the con-
struction of large dams. During the fiscal year 1957-58 the program
was financed by a transfer of $175,624 from the National Park Serv-
ice to the Smithsonian Institution. Of that amount $157,624 was
for use in the Missouri Basin and the remainder covered operations
in other areas. A carryover of $15,902 from the Missouri Basin
funds for the preceding fiscal year made the total available for the
Missouri Basin $173,526. The over-all total for the year was $191,526.
The amount of available money was somewhat larger than during
the previous fiscal year, and the increase was reflected in the work
accomplished.

Field investigation during the year consisted mainly of excavations,
although some surveys were carried on in several areas. On June 1,
1957, nine parties were in the field. Four were doing intensive dig-
ging in the Great Bend Reservoir area and four were making ex-
cavations in the Oahe Reservoir area, both projects being located
in South Dakota. A survey party covered portions of the Big Bend
area, which had not been visited during the previous summer’s work,
and carried on test operations in 14 sites. In September that party
moved to the Oahe Reservoir basin where it started similar oper-
ations. Most of the field parties had returned to their headquarters
by the end of September. Early in the spring a party conducted
excavations in the Dardanelle Reservoir area on the Arkansas River
in Arkansas. During the period February—June, a survey party
worked in three reservoir areas along the lower Chattahoochee River
in Alabama and Georgia, and in April—June another party excavated
in two sites in the Hartwell Reservoir area in South Carolina-
Georgia. At the end of the fiscal year nine parties were conducting
excavations along the Missouri River in South Dakota. Five were
working in the Great Bend Reservoir area and four in the Oahe
Reservoir Basin.

By June 80, 1958, reservoir areas where archeological surveys and
excavations had been made since the salvage program got under way
in 1946 totaled 254 in 29 States. The survey parties have located
and recorded 4,889 archeological sites, and of that number 997 have
been recommended for excavation or limited testing. In general
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5a:

the term “excavation” does not indicate the complete investigation
of a site, but usually means that only about 10 percent of it has been
uncovered. There are some cases, however, where the locality is of
sufficient significance to warrant extensive digging. Preliminary ap-
praisal reports have been issued for all the reservoir areas surveyed,
with the exception of the Big Bend in South Dakota and the group
of three in Chattahoochee Basin. The report for the Big Bend has
been completed, however, and will be processed early in the coming
fiscal year. One preliminary report covering the survey of the
Dardanelle Reservoir area in Arkansas was mimeographed and dis-
tributed during the year. Since the beginning of the Inter-Agency
Archeological Salvage Program, 184 appraisal reports have been
issued. The discrepancy between that number and the total of the
reservoir areas examined is due to the fact that in several cases in-
formation obtained from a number of reservoir projects located in
a single basin or subbasin have been combined in a single report.

By the end of the fiscal year 388 sites in 52 reservoir basins located
in 19 different States had been either partially or extensively dug.
Only a single site was excavated in some of the reservoir areas, while
in others a whole series was investigated. At least one example of
each type of site recommended by the preliminary surveys had been
excavated. In some cases it has been necessary to dig a number of
somewhat similar sites because the complexity of such remains makes
it essential to have considerable comparative material in order to
obtain full information about that particular phase of aboriginal cul-
ture. In brief it may be said that the cultural stages represented
cover the range from the early hunting peoples of about 10,000 years
ago to the frontier trading and Army posts of the latter part of
the 19th century. Reports of the results obtained from some of
the excavations have been published in Bulletins of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
and in various scientific journals. During the year River Basin
Surveys Paper No. 8, Bulletin 166 of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, was distributed. It was written by Dr. Douglas Osborne
and pertains to excavations in the McNary Reservoir Basin near
Umatilla, Oreg. Accompanying the archeological report are ap-
pendices on the skeletal material, trade goods, and composition of
the copper objects found during the excavations. River Basin Sur-
veys Papers 9-14, which will constitute Bulletin 169 of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, were in page proof at the end of the year,
and the volume should be ready for distribution early in the next
fiscal year. Three of the papers pertain to investigations in the
Missouri Basin, two to work done in the Jim Woodruff Reservoir
area, Georgia-Florida, and one to a site in the Alatoona Reservoir
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

area in Georgia. Twelve detailed technical reports on the results
of work done during previous years were completed during 1957-58
and are ready to submit to the editors for publication as soon as
funds sufficient to cover their cost are available.

As of June 30, 1958, the distribution of reservoir projects that have
been surveyed for archeological remains was as follows: Alabama, 3;
Arkansas, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 8; Idaho, 11;
Tilinois, 2; Iowa, 8; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 2; Minne-
sota, 1; Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1;
North Dakota, 18; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania,
2; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 10; Tennessee, 4; Texas, 19;
Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West Virginia, 2; Wyoming, 22. Exca-
vations have been made or were under way in reservoir basins in
Arkansas, 1; California, 5; Colorado, 1; Iowa, 1; Georgia, 5; Kan-
sas, 5; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4;
Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 4; South Carolina, 2; South Dakota, 4; Texas,
7; Virginia, 1; Washington, 4; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, 2. The
preceding figures include only the work of the River Basin Surveys
or that which was in direct cooperation between local institutions and
the Surveys. The investigations made by State and local institutions
working under agreements with the National Park Service have not
been included because complete information about them is not
available.

The River Basin Surveys, as in previous years, received helpful
cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Recla-
mation, and the Corps of Engineers, and various State and local insti-
tutions. The Corps of Engineers provided transportation and
guides for work in one of the reservoir areas and provided temporary
field headquarters for a party in another area. In several instances
mechanical equipment to assist in heavy excavations was made avail-
able by the construction agency. Field personnel of all the agencies
was particularly helpful to the various party leaders from the River
Basin Surveys and expedited their activities in numerous ways. The
National Park Service continued to serve as the liaison between the
various agencies, both in Washington and in the field. The Park
Service also prepared the estimates and justifications for the funds
needed to carry on the salvage program. In the several Park Service
regions the regional directors and members of their staffs cooperated
wholeheartedly in the program and greatly aided all phases of the
operations.

The main office in Washington continued general supervision of
the program. The field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln,
Nebr., was responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin and
also provided a base of operations for the party which worked at the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 53

Dardanelle Reservation in Arkansas. The materials collected by the
excavating parties in the Missouri River Basin, as well as the one in
Arkansas and those from the Toronto Reservoir area on the Verdigris
River in Kansas, which were obtained the previous year, were proc-
essed at the Lincoln laboratory. During the first two months of the
fiscal year, Dr. James H. Howard, who supervised the project at the
Kansas Reservoir, worked in the Lincoln office studying the speci-
mens which he had recovered and preparing his report.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin
Surveys at the Bureau of American Ethnology continued under the
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeolo-
gist, was detailed to the regular Bureau staff for the period from
July 1 to December 29, in order to continue excavations at Russell
Cave, Alabama, and to work up the material obtained from the cave.
On December 30 he returned to the River Basin Surveys staff and
from then until April 22 devoted his time to the completion of his
report on previous excavations at the James H. Kerr (Buggs Island)
Reservoir on the Roanoke River in southern Virginia. During the
winter months he spoke before several local societies, completed an
article on the Russell Cave work for the National Geographic Maga-
zine and gave a lecture on the cave before the National Geographic
Society in Washington. On April 22 he proceeded to South Carolina
where he conducted excavations in the Hartwell Reservoir area.
While engaged in those investigations he spoke before several local
Rotary and Lions Clubs, several groups of Boy Scouts, and a Naval
Research group at Clemson College. On May 23 he participated in
a conference held at the University of Georgia at Athens, at which
time representatives of the National Park Service, the University of
Georgia, and the River Basin Surveys discussed future work for the
Hartwell Reservoir area. Mr. Miller returned to Washington on
June 26 and on June 29 was again transferred to the Bureau of
American Ethnology to resume the activities at Russell Cave. The
latter work, which is a cooperative project between the Smithsonian
Institution and the National Geographic Society, was to continue
through the early months of the following fiscal year.

William M. Bass III, temporary physical anthropologist, was on
duty in Washington at the beginning of the year. He devoted the
month of July and the first week in August to a study of human
skeletal material from various sites in the Missouri Basin and pre-
pared reports on his findings. On August 9 he left Washington for
Pierre, S. Dak., and spent the ensuing 3 weeks assisting in the removal
of Indian burials at the Sully site in the Oahe Reservoir area. Mr.
Bass returned to Washington August 29 and resigned from the Sur-
veys in order to resume his studies toward an advanced degree. On
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

June 2 Mr. Bass again reported for duty in Washington and spent
3 weeks classifying human skeletal material from the James H. Kerr
Reservoir in southern Virginia. He then proceeded to Pierre, S. Dak.,
and took charge of a party conducting excavations in the burial area
at the Sully site. Mr. Bass was engaged in those activities at the close
of the year.

Harold A. Huscher, archeologist on the staff of the Missouri Basin
Project, was detailed to the Washington office beginning February
2, 1958, and on February 7 left for Georgia and Alabama, where he
carried on preliminary surveys in three reservoir areas in the lower
Chattahoochee River Basin. Mr. Huscher continued those activities
until June 23 when he went to Athens, Ga., to participate in the
conference at which Mr. Miller was also in attendance. Following
the conference Mr. Huscher returned to Washington, and at the close
of the fiscal year was preparing a summary report on the results of
his explorations along the Chattahoochee.

Alabama-Georgia—During the period February 10 to June 21
preliminary surveys were made in the areas to be flooded by the
Columbia Dam and Lock, the Walter F. George Dam and Lock, and
the Oliver Dam on the lower Chattahoochee River. The Columbia
Dam and Lock and the Walter F. George Dam and Lock are projects
of the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, while the Oliver
Dam is being constructed by the Georgia Power Co. The Columbia
Dam is to be located a short distance below the bridge across the
Chattahoochee River at Columbia, Ala. The Walter F. George Dam
is to be built at Fort Gaines, Ga., and the Oliver Dam is located a
short distance above Columbus, Ga. These three projects together
will flood out 120 contiguous miles of the Chattahoochee bottoms.
Since the area to be affected by the Walter F. George project will be
the first to be inundated, most of the period was spent in that area,
although some reconnaissance was made in both of the other basins.

During the course of the survey in the Walter F. George basin,
117 archeological sites were located and recorded on the Georgia side
of the river and 90 sites on the Alabama side. They range from sim-
ple village locations to areas containing the remains of several differ-
ent cultures, and from single to multiple mound groups. In addition
there are two historical sites of considerable importance. One is that
of the Spanish Fort of Apalachicola, dating from 1689 to 1691, and
the other the historic Creek town of Roanoke which was occupied by
the whites and then attacked and burned by the Indians in 1736. Be-
cause the exact dates of occupancy of the Fort are known, it should
provide an important check point in working out the chronology of the
area. Also, since the Roanoke village was burned it should be quite
productive archeologically. The aboriginal sites range from Early
SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

Woodland to relatively late Creek villages dating from the period
1675-1836. The latter present the possibility of a specific identi-
fication of sites from ethnohistorical evidence, as well as an unusual
opportunity to use the direct-historical approach in establishing a
regional chronology.

The manifestations in the Columbia Dam and Lock and Oliver
Dam basins are an integral part of the entire picture in the Lower
Chattahoochee Valley and must be studied in conjunction with those
in the Walter F. George section. Complete coverage of those two
projects was not possible in the time devoted to the reconnaissance,
but it was determined that there are at least 14 sites in the immediate
area of the Columbia Dam which will be affected by construction
activities. One is a major mound site probably dating about A.D.
1200, already half destroyed by the river, which calls for immediate
investigation. Three others are major village sites attributable to the
Weeden Island cultural pattern. In the Oliver Dam district there are
at least 15 known sites including mounds, early village locations, and
caves giving evidence of Indian occupation. The series encompasses
a period of at least 3,000 years.

The entire history of aboriginal development in that portion of the
Chattahoochee Valley is contained in the river bottoms and low ter-
races which will be flooded by the three reservoirs. Very little archeo-
logical work has been done there and an extensive program of excava-
tion is indicated. In addition, further surveys should be made in
districts not covered during the recent investigations.

Arkansas.—In the Dardanelle Reservoir Basin on the Arkansas
River in west-central Arkansas, excavations were made in five sites,
and two new sites were located and recorded during the period from
March 18 to May 7. All seven of the sites involved were in the lower
portion of the reservoir area. One rock shelter was almost com-
pletely excavated and four open sites were extensively tested. Little
was found at the excavated sites to indicate the type of dwelling or
structures erected by the people. However, a considerable collection
of artifact material was recovered which shows that the sites pri-
marily represent the Archaic Period and that their ceramics were
related to the Lower Mississippi Valley sequences. Only slight in-
fluences were noted from the Caddoan area to the west and southwest.
The two new sites found by the field party represent a mound-village
complex and a historic Cherokee location. Because of adverse
weather and unusually heavy rains during the period the party was in
the Dardanelle area, not so much work was accomplished as had been
contemplated, and it was recommended that similar excavations be
made during the following fiscal year in upper portions of the reser-
voir basin.

492520595
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The proposed survey of the Greer’s Ferry Reservoir area, which
was postponed the previous year because of high waters, was not
made during the current year by a River Basin Surveys party as con-
templated. Instead the University of Arkansas, working under an
agreement with the National Park Service, carried out the prelimi-
nary investigations at Greer’s Ferry. The situation there was some-
what comparable to that in the Dardanelle area in that weather con-
ditions hampered the work to a considerable degree. It was planned
that another party from the University would return to the Greer’s
Ferry area shortly after the beginning of the new fiscal year.

Iowa.—No fieldwork was carried on in Iowa during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1958. However, the detailed technical report “Archeo-
logical Salvage Investigations in the Coralville Reservoir, lowa” was
completed during the year and will be available for publication as
soon as funds for that purpose are available. The report consists of
100 typed pages, 12 plates, and 15 text figures.

Kansas.—The only activity on the part of the River Basin Surveys
during the fiscal year pertaining to Kansas was that of the comple-
tion of the detailed technical report on the excavation in eight sites
in the Toronto Reservoir Basin during the spring months of 1957. A
typed manuscript of 90 pages with 12 plates and 15 text figures is now
ready to submit to the editors.

Missouri Basin.—As in previous years, the Missouri Basin Project
continued to operate from the field headquarters and laboratory at
1517 “O” Street, Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served
as chief of the Project throughout the year. Activities included work
on all four phases of the salvage program: (1) Survey, (2) excava-
tion, (3) analysis, and (4) reporting. The first two phases received
major attention in the summer months, and the second two during the
fall and winter. In addition to the four regular phases of the pro-
gram, a special chronology program was initiated during the year.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the staff, in addition to the
chief, consisted of 4 permanent archeologists, 1 archeologist detailed
to the Project from the Washington office, 5 temporary field assist-
ants, 1 field assistant detailed to the project from the Washington
office, 1 temporary physical anthropologist on duty in the Washing-
ton office, 1 field and laboratory assistant, 1 administrative assistant,
1 museum aide, 1 clerk-stenographer, 1 file clerk (half time), 1
photographer, 1 clerk-typist, 2 temporary laboratory assistants, 1
temporary (part time) draftsman, and 79 temporary field crewmen.
At the end of the 1957 summer field season, all temporary field crew-
men were terminated, with the exception of one who was assigned
laboratory assistant’s duties in the Lincoln office. The physical an-
thropologist subsequently was on duty in the Missouri Basin for 8
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

weeks in August. The archeologist and field assistant detailed from
the Washington office returned to their regular assignments in Au-
gust. Two temporary field assistants were terminated in August.
Two other temporary field assistants were appointed as archeologists
on the permanent staff. One temporary field assistant was transferred
to duty outside the Missouri Basin in January. One illustrator was
added to the permanent staff in November. All other temporary
employees were terminated in December and January. Four museum
aides were added to the permanent staff during the year. One tempo-
rary archeologist and two temporary field assistants were added at the
beginning of the 1958 field season. At the end of the fiscal year there
were 6 archeologists in addition to the chief, 1 administrative assist-
ant, 1 clerk-stenographer, 1 file clerk (three-quarters time), 1 clerk-
typist, 1 photographer, 1 illustrator, and 4 museum aides on the
permanent staff. Temporary employees included 1 archeologist, 1
physical anthropologist, 2 field assistants, 3 cooks, and 90 crewmen.

During the year there were 19 Smithsonian Institution River Basin
Surveys field parties at work within the Missouri Basin, while
another, working outside the Basin, also operated from the Project
office in Lincoln. Of the 19 Missouri Basin parties, 5 were at work
in July, August, and September in the Big Bend Reservoir area in
South Dakota, and 5 additional parties were at work there in June.
Five parties worked in the Oahe Reservoir area in July, August, and
September, and four other parties were at work there in June. The
party outside the Missouri Basin was that in the Dardanelle Reser-
voir area in Arkansas.

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included 11
field parties from State institutions working under agreements with
the National Park Service and in cooperation with the salvage re-
search program of the Smithsonian Institution. Parties from the
Universities of South Dakota, Idaho, Wyoming, Kansas, and Mis-
sourl and from the North Dakota State Historical Society were in the
field during July to October. Parties from the Universities of South
Dakota, Idaho, Wyoming, and Missouri were conducting excavations
in June, as was a joint party from the North Dakota State Historical
Society and the University of North Dakota.

At the beginning of the year in the Big Bend Reservoir area,
G. Hubert Smith and a party of 10 were engaged in excavations on
the right bank of the Missouri River near the mouth of Medicine
Creek, in Lyman County, S. Dak., at site 39L.M241. This site was
believed to be that of Fort Defiance (or Bouis), a small, short-lived
trading post of the 1840’s. It was one of a number of such estab-
lishments organized from time to time in competition with the Ameri-
can Fur Co. (P. Chouteau, Jr., & Co., after 1834). It was hoped that
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

work there would provide information on such lesser establishments
of the fur and Indian trade, of which little was ever recorded at the
time they were in use. Excavations at 391.M241 proved that it was
not the site of Fort Defiance (or Bouis) but that it was of a later
period of permanent settlement, dating after 1880. Further search
for the Fort Defiance site proved fruitless. While somewhat scanty,
the data and specimens from 39L.M241 provide materials that should
be very useful for comparative studies relating to this later period of
white occupation. The Smith party completed 6 weeks of fieldwork
and returned to the Lincoln office early in August.

The second River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area at the beginning of the year was directed by Dr. Warren W.
Caldwell and consisted of a crew of nine. The group was at work on
the right bank of the Missouri River in Lyman County, S. Dak.,
some 7 miles above the Lower Brule Agency, excavating in the Black
Partizan site (39L.M218). The latter consists of the remains of a pre-
historic earth-lodge village of at least 2 component occupations and
perhaps 8. The party completely excavated 1 circular earth-lodge
ruin and a large portion of a second, cross-sectioned a defensive forti-
fication ditch, excavated 1 complete bastion of the stockade, and tested
a number of midden areas and cache pits. The circular houses were
situated well outside the fortification ditch and were of the late occu-
pation of about the end of the 17th century. The ditch and bastion
represent two earlier occupation periods, with the ditch being dug
during the earlier one, later filled in and, still later, redug. Tests
indicated a rectangular house inside the fortification ditch and, to-
gether with midden areas and cache pits in that area, provided both
simple-stamped and cord-roughened pottery that predates the mate-
rial recovered from the circular houses outside the stockade. Among
the finds made in the cache pits, one of particular interest was the
burial of two very large, adult dogs, together with a pup. After 12
weeks of excavation, the party disbanded and returned to the Lincoln
office on September 7. The Caldwell and Smith parties shared a
joint field camp near the mouth of Medicine Creek.

The third River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area at the beginning of the year was under the direction of
Robert W. Neuman and had a crew of 10. That party conducted
excavations in four sites in the vicinity of Old Fort Thompson, the
Indian Agency, on the left bank of the Missouri River in Buffalo
County, S. Dak. Two of them were prehistoric village sites on the low
terrace bottoms, and two were burial mounds situated on the higher
terrace of the Missouri River. The Pretty Bull site (39BF12) was
found to have had three separate occupations. The earliest and
deepest remains were recovered from two test excavations that un-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 59

covered two basin-shaped pits with burned, bright orange-colored
walls. One of these pits was associated with a few scattered post
molds. The recovered artifacts suggest a Middle Woodland occupa-
tion and include cord-marked pottery, crude triangular projectile
points, stone end scrapers, elk or deer bone and antler tools, small
shell disk beads, and concentrations of hematite. The middle occupa-
tion was apparent in a large strata trench, where six cache pits with
slightly convex bottoms and undercut walls were excavated. Fill
within the pits included an abundance of Monroe, Anderson, and
Foreman pottery that relates to an early, rectangular-house occupa-
tion. Bone and stone implements were also numerous, but no archi-
tectural features were found. The late occupation was represented
in the excavations by the remains of a large, circular earth lodge.
A central fire hearth, basin- and bell-shaped cache pits, and second-
ary fire hearths were excavated within the house. The ceramic col-
lections from the house fill consist of at least nine pottery types,
suggesting a long and varied occupation. The post-mold pattern of
the house was poorly defined in some places, but the general pattern
was unmistakable.

The second village location excavated by the Neuman party was
the Akichita site (89BF221). There, three midden areas were
sampled extensively, and an abundance of artifacts and refuse was
recovered, but no houses were located. One bell-shaped cache pit was
dug. Artifacts collected suggest close affiliation with the older
levels at the Dodd site (89ST30) near Pierre, S. Dak. It was felt at
the end of the season that additional work was needed there, particu-
larly an effort to determine the architectural pattern of the houses.
A third site excavated was the Olson Mound (89BF223). It was a
low, circular earth mound 1.5 feet high and 40 feet in diameter. No
pottery and very few bone or stone artifacts were recovered from the
fill. In the center, and on the base of the mound, there was a con-
centration of badly decomposed human bones, suggesting the second-
ary burial of an undetermined number of individuals. The cultural
affiliation of the complex has not yet been determined. ‘The final site
excavations by the Neuman party were at the Truman Mound site
(89BF224). The latter consisted of a group of four low, circular
mounds in a line along the terrace edge, each measuring about 2 feet
in height and 50 feet in diameter. Three of the mounds contained
primary and/or secondary burials. One mound contained a deep,
oval pit extending 6 feet below its top surface. A flexed burial, shell
pendants, pottery sherds, and bone and shell tools were recovered
from both the pit and the mound fill. Another of the mounds had a
rectangular design of small rocks on its top surface and contained
secondary burials. One skull displayed a large cut hole in the left
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

temporal region. This mound lacked pottery, but in all other re-
spects resembled the other three excavated mounds. The pottery
from this mound group, including one restored vessel, was simple
stamped, but had a typical Middle Wocdland conoidal vessel shape
and no decoration. This party disbanded and returned to the Lin-
coln headquarters on October 3, after 14 weeks of fieldwork.

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area was directed by William N. Irving and consisted of a crew
of eight. At the beginning of the year the party was at work on
the left bank of the Missouri River in the vicinity of Old Fort
Thompson in Buffalo County, S. Dak. Efforts were concentrated on
the Medicine Crow site (89BF2), and excavations were made in three
separate areas. In area A the men uncovered a circular earth lodge
and several cache pits of the late occupation of about the early 18th
century. In area C another circular earth lodge and several cache
pits were excavated, and the recovered material suggests an occupa-
tion date a few decades earlier than that of area A. One cache-pit
burial was recovered there. The main work of the season was in
area B, where a large series of extensive test excavations revealed
deeply buried evidence of at least three separate occupations, antedat-
ing the appearance of ceramics in the area. Some 25 projectile
points and a large collection of camp refuse were obtained. The
types of the artifacts and the stratigraphic situation, terminating in
a coarse sand at the bottom, suggest an early Archaic occupation of
perhaps as much as 5,000 or more years ago. One skull, recovered
from the site, compares physically with the “Minnesota Man” re-
mains, which generally are believed to be late Pleistocene in age.
This is the best early-period site thus far noted in the immediate
valley of the Missouri River. It has a strong potential for produc-
ing evidence for a good sequence of occupations from very early
preceramic times to late ceramic times. The geology of the terrace
formations there, and pollen analyses, promise good interpretative
possibilities. The party ended the season’s work on October 8, after
14 weeks of excavation. The Neuman and Irving parties shared a
joint camp at Old Fort Thompson.

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area at the beginning of the fiscal year was directed by Harold A.
Huscher. He was assisted by a crew of three. This was a mobile
party and constituted an extension of the previous summer’s survey
work in that area. During the season’s work the group conducted
extensive test excavations in 14 sites on both sides of the river in
Buffalo, Hyde, Hughes, Lyman, and Stanley Counties; made surface
collections from 14 other sites in Buffalo and Hyde Counties; and
located 16 previously unrecorded sites. Of the sites tested, 12 were
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

recommended for excavation and 2 were written off as meriting no
further attention. The 12 comprised either single- or multi-occupa-
tion sites, ranging in time from Middle Woodland through the early
ceramic periods of rectangular houses to and including the late
ceramic periods of circular earth lodges. One suggests a preceramic
horizon somewhat similar to that at the Medicine Crow site (39BF2).
Of the sites visited and not tested, nine were recommended for further
investigation, and five were written off. One of the latter five,
39HU215, was first thought to be an early 19th-century trading post,
but tests indicated that it was a late 19th-century homestead allot-
ment, probably of Dakota occupancy. On September 3 this party
terminated its work in the Big Bend area after 8 weeks in the field,
and moved to the Oahe Reservoir area to continue similar survey and
testing activities.

In the Oahe Reservoir area there were four River Basin Survey
parties in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year, and a fifth
party began work there early in September. Dr. Robert L. Stephen-
son with a crew of 23 was excavating, at the beginning of the year, in
the vicinity of Fort Sully on the left bank of the Missouri River in
Sully County, S. Dak. That party conducted intensive excavations
in the Sully site (89SL4), the remains of the largest of the pre-
historic earth-lodge villages known in the Missouri Basin. It also
completely excavated a small rock-cairn burial site (89SL38) nearby.
The latter consisted of a deep burial beneath a rock pile and produced
a skeleton in poor condition, with no associated artifacts. The Sully
site excavations included 13 circular earth lodges of the nearly 400
presumed to be present in the site, and 114 of the 4 ceremonial lodges.
The house floors ranged in depth, below the surface, from 2 to 4
feet; entrances were to the southwest; and two distinct architectural
patterns were observed. One was composed of closely set double rows
of small outer wall posts, the other was composed of widely spaced
single rows of large outer posts with leaner posts outside them. Ap-
parently there were two closely related, yet somewhat different, oc-
cupational patterns, and the artifact inventory tends to support this
distinction. The ceremonial lodges were 12-sided structures of 75- to
80-foot diameters and had long entrance passages. The other houses
all had very short entrances. The ceramic inventory suggests that
there may have been an earlier occupation featuring rectangular
houses, but no such houses were found in the areas excavated. Other
features excavated include burial areas where 63 burials were re-
covered, midden heaps, a large rectangular “plaza” area of unknown
usage, a large I-shaped depression of unknown usage, a strata trench
across the center of the site, and 91 cache pits. The major occupation
of the site appears to have been by the immediate ancestors of the
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Arikara during the period 1600-1750. The other occupation or occu-
pations were somewhat earlier. Among the unusual materials re-
covered were several catlinite pipes, an ornament of turquoise, a piece
of obsidian, and several ornaments made from marine shells. The
burials will provide a good series for study, and the field party was
particularly fortunate to have William M. Bass ITI, physical anthro-
pologist of the River Basin Surveys staff, present to assist in the
excavation of the burial areas. This party returned to the Lincoln
headquarters on September 14, after 13 weeks in the field.

The second River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area,
comprising a crew of seven, was directed by Charles H. McNutt. At
the beginning of the year they were camped with Dr. Stephenson’s
party near Fort Sully and were excavating in the nearby C. B. Smith
site (39SL29) on the left bank of the Missouri River in Sully County,
S. Dak. They uncovered major sections of 2 large circular earth lodges,
10 cache pits, and 17 other features, and tested 2 extensive midden
areas. ‘This proved to be a moderately large earth-lodge village site
of about the early 17th century. After the completion of work there,
the party moved to the nearby Sully School site (39SL7) and exca-
vated 2 houses, 12 cache pits, and 9 other features, tested one midden
area, and trenched a portion of the fortification ditch and palisade.
One of the houses had been a long, rectangular structure with an entry
ramp to the south, while the other was a large circular structure. The
two occupations thus indicated suggest that one belonged to a period
approximating that of the C. B. Smith site, while the other was con-
siderably earlier—perhaps between A.D. 1200 and 1400. The fortifi-
cation ditch and palisade apparently surrounded the later period
occupation. In addition to the excavations at those two sites, the
McNutt party investigated two lesser sites in the vicinity. One,
39SL9, was a small occupation area with a few surface remains. Test-
ing there gave no promise of significant returns for intensive digging
and no further work was attempted. The other, 39SL10, was a burial
site along the edge of the present river bank. Stream cutting had
destroyed all but the last vestiges of it, and there was little to salvage.
The party disbanded and returned to the Lincoln headquarters on
September 14, after 18 weeks of work.

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area
was directed by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, who was detailed to the River
Basin Surveys for the summer by the department of anthropology of
the U.S. National Museum. Dr. Wedel and a crew of nine worked
near the Old Fort Bennett area on the right bank of the Missouri River
in Stanley County, S. Dak. The party conducted intensive excavations
in site 839ST203, where it uncovered two large circular earth lodges
dating around the 17th century and two large long-rectangular houses
of a much earlier period, perhaps the 14th or 15th centuries. The
SECRETARY'S REPORT 63

floors of the circular houses were 114 to 214 feet below the surface,
while those of the rectangular structures were 31% to 4 feet. Other
features excavated in this site include a burial pit with the remains of
five individuals, and evidence of burning over the top of the corpses.
The party also excavated a circular house and a large portion of the
stockade line at the nearby site, 39ST50. This small fortified village
of the late 18th or early 19th century may possibly be the Truteau vil-
lage of the mid-1790’s. Glass bottles and considerable metal were
found in the site. Dr. Wedel’s party disbanded on August 19, after 8
weeks of excavation.

The fourth River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area
was directed by Donald D. Hartle. It consisted of a crew of seven and
shared a joint field camp with the Wedel party. This party dug test
excavations in three sites during the season. At 39ST11, two houses,
nine cache pits, and several other features were excavated. The houses
were small rectangular structures with single end posts, evenly spaced
side-wall posts, and entrance ramps. Of especial interest was the
small size and short-rectangular shape of these houses, distinguishing
them from the long-rectangular structures of more usual occurrence.
Architecture and artifact collections suggest affiliation with the
early sedentary Anderson Focus of the 14th or 15th centuries. An-
other interesting feature was the remains of three people who had died
within a corner of one of the houses. With them were a whole pottery
vessel and some fragments of basketry. In 39ST23, a dwelling house,
a ceremonial lodge, several cache pits, a palisade and fortification
ditch, and several other features were excavated. The pottery and
circular houses suggest an Arikara occupation of perhaps the 17th or
18th century. The ceremonial house contained an altar, and the wall
posts were set in a trench around the base of the wall. At 39ST45,
three houses, several cache pits, two palisade bastions, and several
other features were excavated. This site was occupied at two differ-
ent times at least, since one house was rectangular and two were circu-
lar. The rectangular house was short and small and represents an
occupation very closely related to that of site 39ST11. The circular
house occupation was not entirely clear, but appears to have been
representative of a culture pattern somewhat earlier than that of site
39ST23. The two palisade bastions were oval in pattern and ex-
tended laterally from a fortification palisade. This field party ended
its work on August 24, after 9 weeks in the field.

The River Basin Surveys’ mobile survey and testing crew of three,
under the direction of Harold A. Huscher, moved from the Big
Bend Reservoir area on September 3 and began a site survey and
testing operation in the Oahe Reservoir area between the mouth of
the Cheyenne River and Whitlocks Crossing on the right bank of the
Missouri River. Heavy vegetation growth and much rain during
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the season prevented the party from doing extensive site mapping or
reconnaissance in the area, but several of the larger sites were visited
and surface collections were made. A site map and exploratory tests
were made at 389AR8, which appears to be related to the Huff site
in North Dakota. Six other large sites were located and recorded
for the first time in this area. The party disbanded on September
16, after 2 weeks in the Oahe Reservoir area.

The 1958 field season in the Missouri Basin began in the Big Bend
Reservoir area on May 11 with a small party exploring in the vicinity
of the Medicine Crow site (89BF2). William N. Irving with a crew
of three and Mrs. Kathryn H. Clisby, pollen specialist from Oberlin
College, Ohio, collected samples of fossil pollen from various local-
ities in the area. Upon Mrs. Clisby’s departure, Irving and his crew
prepared a detailed map of the Medicine Crow site. On June 10
he increased his party to eight crewmen and added an assistant
trained in geology to work with him on stratigraphic terrace sequences
relating to the geology of the site and its immediate vicinity. They
located one new site containing a large mammalian fossil in a terrace
fill deposit and another site with columnar fire hearths exposed in
a cut bank of the river. Intensive excavations continued in area B
at the Medicine Crow site, and by the end of the year were progress-
ing through the upper 3 feet of the preceramic zones.

On May 19, the second River Basin Surveys field party began op-
erations in the Big Bend Reservoir area. This was a party of 10
under the direction of Robert W. Neuman excavating at two sites
near Old Fort Thompson on the left bank of the Missouri River.
Part of this crew continued work begun last season in the Akichita
site (89BF221) in an attempt to learn details of architectural fea-
tures. Extensive trenching had failed to find any traces of a house
structure by the end of the year, although much midden refuse added
significantly to the specimen inventory. The second section of the
crew continued work begun last season at the Truman Mound site
(89BF224). In that mound group, Mounds 5 and 6 were excavated
during June, thus completing work at the site. In both mounds sec-
ondary burials accompanied by shell, disk, and bone beads were found.
Beneath Mound 6, several projectile points, bone beads, and other
artifacts were found. This party planned to concentrate the re-
mainder of the field season on the several other mound sites in the
immediate vicinity.

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir
area in June consisted of a crew of seven led by James J. F. Deetz.
It began work on June 10 and spent the remainder of the month in
excavations in areas A and C of the Medicine Crow site (839BF2).
Midden areas were trenched, and one circular earth lodge was exca-
vated. This lodge was actually two closely superimposed structures.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

Work was continuing at this site at the end of the year. The field
parties of Irving, Neuman, and Deetz shared a joint field camp near
the Medicine Crow site.

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area in June was composed of a crew of 13 directed by Dr. War-
ren W. Caldwell. It began work on June 10 at the Black Partizan
site in an effort to complete excavations started last season. By the
end of the year a circular (or more exactly an octagonal) earth lodge
had been completely excavated and a midden area trenched.

The fifth River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir
area consisted of a crew of seven led by Bernard Golden. It began
work on June 10 at the Hickey Brothers site (89L.M4) and spent the
remainder of the year excavating midden deposits and one circular
depression that appeared to be an earth-lodge ruin. Artifact inven-
tory was small as of the end of the year. The Caldwell and Golden
parties shared a joint camp at the Black Partizan site.

In the Oahe Reservoir area, four River Basin Surveys parties were
in the field during the month of June and a fifth party was scheduled
to begin work early in the next fiscal year. The first party in the
area had a crew of 10 under the direction of Charles H. McNutt.
This group began on June 16, and spent the rest of the month con-
tinuing excavations begun last season at the Sully School site
(39SL7). There, a long expanse of the fortification stockade was
uncovered, and work was well under way toward excavation of cir-
cular earth-lodge structures.

The second River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area
in June consisted of a crew of 23 under the direction of Dr. Robert
L. Stephenson, with Lee G. Madison as assistant. They began work
on June 16 on the Sully site (39SL4) and by the end of the year had
exposed the floors and other features of three circular earth-lodge
structures. Artifact inventories were abundant in all 3, and an area
surrounding 38 sides of each of 2 of the houses was being exposed in
order to learn the nature of materials outside the houses.

The third River Basin Surveys party at work in the Oahe Reservoir
area by the end of the year was that of Richard P. Wheeler. It con-
sisted of a crew of eight and was working on the Fort Bennett site
(89ST12), on the right bank of the Missouri River near Old Fort
Bennett in Stanley County, S. Dak. That party began work on June
19, and by the end of the year had started the clearing of three circular
earth-lodge structures.

On the last day of the year, a fourth River Basin Surveys party
started work in the Oahe Reservoir area. It was comprised of a crew
of six, under the direction of William M. Bass ITI, and was to excavate
the extensive burial area at the Sully site (39SLA4).
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The McNutt, Stephenson, and Bass parties shared a joint field
camp in the vicinity of the Sully site. Such 2- and 3-party field
camps were proving to be efficient and economical, as many of the
activities and expenses of several parties could be combined. The
necessary field equipment, vehicles, number of cooks, and other ex-
penses were proportionately reduced. The consultative advantage of
having two or three archeologists in a single camp was proving to be
of great help in discussions pertaining to excavation methods and
general archeological interpretations.

Cooperating institutions in the Oahe Reservoir area at the beginning
of the fiscal year included a party from the University of South Dakota
directed by Dr. Wesley R. Hurt, Jr.; a party from the University of
Idaho under the direction of Dr. Alfred Bowers; and a party from
the State Historical Society of North Dakota, directed by Daniel J.
Scheans. At the end of the fiscal year cooperating institutions in the
Oahe Reservoir included a party from the University of South Dakota
directed by Eugene Fugle; a party from the University of Idaho di-
rected by Dr. Alfred Bowers; a party from the State Historical
Society of North Dakota and the University of North Dakota com-
bined, directed by Dr. James H. Howard. In other reservoirs in the
Missouri Basin cooperating institutions had parties in the field at the
beginning of the year as follows: The University of Wyoming, with
a party directed by Dr. William Mulloy in the Glendo Reservoir of
southeastern Wyoming; the University of Kansas, with a party di-
rected by Dr. Carlyle S. Smith in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir of north-
eastern Kansas; and the University of Missouri with a party directed
by Carl Chapman in the Pomme de Terre Reservoir of west-central
Missouri. At the end of the fiscal year cooperating institutions were :
The University of Wyoming with a party directed by Dr. William
Mulloy in the Glendo Reservoir area and the University of Missouri
with a party directed by Carl Chapman in the Pomme de Terre Reser-
voir area. All these parties were operating through agreements with
the National Park Service and were cooperating in the Smithsonian
Institution research program.

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field, they
were engaged in analyses of their materials and in laboratory and
library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical, scien-
tific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular nature.

During January the first steps were taken by the staff archeologists
of the Missouri Basin Project toward a long-range Missouri Basin
Chronology Program. This program is a new departure in the field
of salvage archeology and is directed toward a more precise under-
standing of the time sequences of the prehistoric cultures represented
in the sites being excavated in the Missouri Basin. One primary ob-
jective of the program is to be able to plan future salvage excavations
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

with increased efficiency. The program includes intensive research in
dendrochronology, radiocarbon-14 dating, pollen analysis, geologic-
climatic dating, typological analyses of artifact materials, historical
documentation, and the several subsidiary techniques applicable to
chronology. Ultimately the program should provide a specific time
scale into which each of the culture complexes represented in the
excavated sites can be fitted with pinpoint accuracy. In the second
half of the fiscal year the Missouri Basin Chronology Program made
several significant accomplishments. A large wall chart and map
were prepared, showing temporal position and geographic location of
all of the archeologically pertinent carbon-14 dates so far available.
A series of 11 radiocarbon-14 specimens were submitted to the Univer-
sity of Michigan for dating. The available dendrochronological ma-
terials on hand in the Missouri Basin were analyzed, and a determina-
tion was made of what further material is needed. Plans were also
made for procuring additional dendrochronological specimens upon
which a series of local master plots can be built. Pollen samples from
ancient bog areas were collected and submitted to Oberlin College for
analyses, and plans were made for further collecting of fossil pollens.
A man with geological training was temporarily added to the staff
to work out a terrace-system sequence along a portion of the Missouri
River, and a series of specimens was submitted to the University of
Michigan proportional counter laboratory for analyses. Representa-
tives from several State institutions are also cooperating in the
program.

The laboratory and office staff devoted its time to processing specimen
materials for study, photographing specimens, preparing specimen
records, and typing and filing of records and manuscript materials.
The accomplishments of the laboratory and office staff are listed in
the following tables.

TABLE 1.—Specimens processed July 1, 1957—June 80, 1958

Number Catalog Number of
Reservoir of sites numbers | specimens
assigned processed

Prrmboncen to. Ser tiny. Lance le Cs LT 34 8, 290 52, 718
SHG MENS. Set. t tut) inl ee tele tes ee 13 5, 417 38, 864
LIOPROD UCL 2 A eS ene a 29 901 1, 304
SILes; not, in TeservOrs-<- = 2 bose eS 5 23 212

81 14, 631 93, 098
Collections not assigned site numbers-_--_- 2 9 9

Bo) 2 = Oe pe ee eR 83 14, 640 93, 107
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

TAasLe 2.—Record materials processed July 1, 1957-June 30, 1958

Reflexcopies: Of! FECOTC Se: ei a eee i a eee 9, 240
Photographic negativessmadeus.- 22 ae eee ee 2, 946
Photographic (prints made 2) ee eee eee 11, 521
Photographie prints; mounted) and) filed 22.22 eee ' 5, 182
Transparencies mounted imeclass= 2 swe ee eee i, a,
Color) pictures taken in) the Vaboratoryoos. 2-2-2 2 se eee 368
Plateslayouts made tor manuscripts oe ee ee 92
Cartographic tracings and revisions. _- - 22 =— 0 = ee 220
Plates lettered st) 222 8 Sie ae Ue ee ee eee 37
Artifactsusketched ee. cee fae, ee ta ie ein is oe oe ee 58
Profilespdra wissen. dk Nt i oe ane, Fe 16

As of June 30, 1958, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged
917,370 specimens from 1,762 numbered sites and 52 collections not
assigned site numbers. During the current fiscal year, 8 pottery ves-
sels and 387 pottery vessel sections were restored, and 104 nonpottery
artifacts were repaired. Archeological specimens from 236 sites in 5
reservoirs were transferred to the United States National Museum, as
were selected specimens of dog, bird, and fish bones, and of shell.
Pottery specimens and stone projectile points were transferred to
Region Two of the National Park Service for use as display material
at Wind Cave National Monument in South Dakota. The Missouri
Basin Project received, by transfer from the Nebraska State His-
torical Society, through the courtesy of Marvin F. Kivett, sample
pottery specimens from four prototypical Nebraska sites. Cultural
units and sites of these type specimens are: Dismal River, the Lovett
site (25CH1); Lower Loup, the Burkett site (25NC1); Oneota, the
Leary site (25RH1) ; and Valley Woodland, the Schultz site (25VY1).
These specimens are now a part of the Missouri Basin Project com-
parative collection. The Missouri Basin Project also received by
transfer from the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History,
through the courtesy of Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, archeological collec-
tions from two sites in the Fort Randall Reservoir area, This was a
permanent transfer of excavated materials which increased materially
the research value of Missouri Basin Project collections.

During the Thanksgiving weekend, members of the staff partici-
pated in the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology, held in Lincoln.
On April 19, members of the staff presented papers at the annual
meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, also held in Lincoln.
On April 30 and May 1 and 2, members of the staff attended and par-
ticipated in the annual meeting of the Society for American Arche-
ology held in Norman, Okla.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field parties,
devoted most of his time to managing the office and laboratory in Lin-
coln and preparing plans for the 1958 summer field season. He spent
SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

some time working on a summary report of the Missouri Basin Sal-
vage Program for the calendar years 1952-56 and wrote several short
papers for presentation before scientific groups. He also worked on a
manuscript on the “Archeological Investigations in the Whitney Res-
ervoir, Texas,” and prepared text, pictures, and captions for a photo-
graphic booklet, “The Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program,
After Twelve Years.” During the second half of the year, he served
as chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. In August
he addressed the Pierre, S. Dak., Rotary Club on “Archeological Sal-
vage in South Dakota.” In October he addressed the Fidelia Lyceum
in Lincoln, Nebr., on “Prehistoric America in Missouri Basin.” In
January he attended and participated in the annual meeting of the
Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains, held in
Washington, D.C. On April 19 he attended the annual meeting of
the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, held in Lincoln, and presented a
paper on “The Missour: Basin Chronology Program.” On April 30
and May 1 and 2, at Norman, Okla., he attended the annual meeting
of the Society for American Archeology and participated as a dis-
cussant of a paper presented by Robert Bell, entitled “Caddoan
Relationships to the Plains.”

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, during the fall and winter
months devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials
recovered from sites he had excavated over the past year. He com-
pleted all plates, figures, and manuscript text for the final report
“Archeological Investigations in the Coralville Reservoir, Iowa.” He
also completed all plates, figures, and manuscript text for the final
report, “Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Hell’s Canyon
Area, Snake River, Oregon and Idaho.” He prepared a brief tech-
nical manuscript, “Firearms and Connotive Materials from Fort
Pierre II (89S5T217), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota,” and a brief
popular article, “The Smithsonian Institution in Arkansas.” The
latter was published in the June issue of The Ozark Mountaineer. Dr.
Caldwell also submitted a short note for publication in the Davidson
Journal of Anthropology entitled “Pacific Coast Clay Figurines: A
Contraview.” He submitted a book review of “Northwest Arche-
ology,” esearch Studies of the State College of Washington, vol. 24,
No. 1, that was published in American Antiquity, vol. 23, No. 2, 1957.
During the second half of the year he served as dendrochronology
chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program.

Donald D. Hartle, temporary archeologist, on the staff at the begin-
ning of the year, left the project on August 26 to resume his graduate
studies. Mr. Hartle was formerly a regular member of the staff at
Lincoln and is still working on reports of work done at that time. He
also is preparing a report on the results of his investigations during
the 1957 field season in the Oahe Reservoir area.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Harold A. Huscher, temporary archeologist, on the staff at the
beginning of the year, was transferred to the Washington office on Jan-
uary 27 to carry on the explorations in Alabama-Georgia previously
discussed. Between his return from the field on September 16 and
his departure for the Southeast, Mr. Huscher wrote a rough draft of
a manuscript covering his work in the Missouri Basin in the summers
of 1956 and 1957—“Appraisal of the Archeological Resources of the
Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota.” He also prepared the prelimi-
nary draft of a brief technical manuscript on earth-lodge village forti-
fications in the Missouri Basin, and presented it as an oral report at
the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology in Lincoln on November
28. He participated in the initial stages of the Missouri Basin
Chronology Program.

William M. Bass III, temporary physical anthropologist, left the
staff on August 28. He rejoined the staff in the same capacity on June
2 and remained in the Washington office until June 20, when he pro-
ceeded to the Lincoln office where he spent five days working on a com-
parative human skeleton. He left for the field in the Oahe Reservoir
area on June 28. |

William N. Irving, temporary archeologist, was appointed to the
permanent staff on May 18. When not in the field directing excava-
tions, he was in the Lincoln office analyzing materials he excavated
during the preceding summer and investigating the geological possi-
bilities of the Medicine Crow site (39BF2). He presented a prelimi-
nary report on the archeology of the Medicine Crow site at the 15th
Plains Conference for Archeology on November 28, and a report on
the chronology of the Medicine Crow site at the annual meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences on April 19. On May 1 he went to
Norman, Okla., and presented a paper on the chronological relation-
ships of the early part of the Medicine Crow site at the annual meet-
ing of the Society for American Archeology. During the second half
of the year he served as geology chairman of the Missouri Basin
Chronology Program.

James J. F. Deetz, temporary archeologist, joined the staff on June
2, and on June 10 left Lincoln for South Dakota to excavate a series
of sites in the Big Bend Reservoir area.

Alan H. Coogan, temporary field assistant, joined the staff on June
2,and on June 10 left Lincoln for the field to serve as assistant to Wil-
liam N. Irving in the geological-archeological work in the vicinity of
Old Fort Thompson in the Big Bend Reservoir area.

Bernard Golden, temporary archeologist, joined the staff on May 19
and on June 10 left Lincoln to begin excavations in an earth-lodge vil-
lage site in the Big Bend Reservoir area.

Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, when he was not in the field, de-
voted most of his time to analyses and the preparation of reports. He
Secretary's Report, 1958 PRAT Ere

1. Excavating a dwelling site of the period of permanent White settlement in the Big Bend
Reservoir area, South Dakota. River Basin Surveys.

2. Cutting trench through large burial mound at the Olson site, Big Bend Reservoir area,
South Dakota. River Basin Surveys.
Secretary's Report, 1955 PEATEs

1. Floor of large circular earth lodge dating about the 17th century. Holes around periphery
indicate location of wall poles; four larger holes in floor area show position of main supports.
Entrance passage at rear with the Missouri River in background. Oahe Reservoir area,
South Dakota. River Basin Surveys.

2. Excavating house floor and cache pits at the Sully site, Oahe Reservoir area, South
Dakota. River Basin Surveys.
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 4

Four stages in the carving of a Seneca mask. Allegany Reservation, New

September 1957.
Secretary’s Report, 1958

PLATE 5

*2S6[ ysnsny ‘Pul[oIeD YInog ‘asunsury eqMey
82) ay} Jo Jayxeads Surat ise] ‘anig 10jAe yy Jonuteg *7

"8961 [dy ‘ewes [[eq-yons ut posn
wunIp YUM ‘mej0YD Iddississtpy ‘uosweryt Ay

Bilal oI
SECRETARY’S REPORT Teal

served as carbon-14 chairman, during the second half of the year, in
the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. He completed the final
draft of a major technical manuscript covering part of his previous
summer’s work, entitled “Archeological Investigations in the C. B.
Smith Site (839SL29), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota.” He also com-
pleted the final draft of an unfinished manuscript begun by Harold A.
Huscher, entitled “Appraisal of the Archeological Resources in the
Big Bend Reservoir Area, South Dakota.” On November 28, he pre-
sented a paper, “Excavations at Two Sites in the Oahe Reservoir, Sully
County, South Dakota,” at the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology
in Lincoln. On April 18 he presented a paper entitled “La Roche
Ware and Relative Chronology” at the annual meeting of the Nebras-
ka Academy of Sciences in Lincoln. From April 80 to May 3 he at-
tended the annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology in
Norman, Okla. He was senior author, with Richard P. Wheeler, of
a brief article entitled “Bibliography of Primary Sources for Radio-
carbon Dates,” which was submitted in June for publication in the
Notes and News section of American Antiquity.

Robert W. Neuman, temporary archeologist, was appointed to the
permanent staff on July 29. During the time he was not directing
field activities he was busy completing the analyses of the data and
materials he had collected and preparing reports on his previous
seasons’ work. He completed the final draft of a major technical
manuscript entitled “Archeological Investigations in the Lovewell
Reservoir Area, Kansas.” On November 28, he presented a paper,
“Excavations in Four Sites in the Big Bend Reservoir Area, South
Dakota.” On April 19 he attended the annual meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln, and from April 30 to
May 3 attended the annual meeting of the Society for American
Archeology in Norman, Okla.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, during the periods he was not
in the field, devoted his time to completion of final drafts of two
major technical reports and one minor report. One major technical
report was “Archeological Investigations at the Site of Fort Ber-
thold II (82ML2), Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota”; the second
was “Archeological Investigations at the Site of Fort Pierre II
(39ST217), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota.” A brief report on
excavations at site 391.M241 was also completed. On November 29,
he served as chairman for a section of the Plains Conference for
Archeology, devoted to historic sites archeology, and summarized the
reports of the seven speakers. He submitted a book review of “New
Discoveries at Jamestown” by John L. Cotter and J. Paul Hudson,
which was published in the Autumn 1957 issue of Archeology. On
January 2, Mr. Smith was detailed, on a reimbursable basis, to the

492520596
(C2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

National Park Service to conduct archeological excavations at the
site of Fort McHenry in Baltimore, Md.

Richard P. Wheeler, archeologist, was at the Lincoln headquarters
throughout the year until June 20. During this period he spent his
time preparing technical reports on work completed in previous
years. He completed the final section of a draft of a lengthy, detailed
report on excavations conducted during 1949-51 in the Angostura
Reservoir area in South Dakota and the Boyson and Keyhole Reser-
voir areas in Wyoming. He also completed the draft of a technical
report on excavations in the Jamestown Reservoir area in North
Dakota. At the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology, in Lincoln,
he presented a preliminary statement on the Stutsman Focus, and a
paper, jointly with Harry E. Weakly, dealing with the cultural and
chronological sequences at Birdshead Cave, Wyo. A third paper pre-
sented at that meeting dealt with radiocarbon dates and prehistory in
the central and northern Plains. As previously mentioned, he col-
laborated with Charles H. McNutt in preparing a paper for submission
to American Antiquity. From April 30 to May 3 he attended the
annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology in Norman,
Okla.

Snake River Basin—No field explorations were carried on in the
Snake River Basin during the fiscal year. However, one report on
the investigations made there during the previous year was completed.
It is called “Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Hell’s Canyon
Area, Snake River, Oregon and Idaho.” The manuscript consists of
95 typed pages and has 8 plates and 6 text figures. The material and
information upon which the report is based were mainly from two
sites in the vicinity of Robinette, Oreg. Another report pertaining
to the excavations on the Idaho side of the river at Big Bar has not
yet been completed, but it is well under way.

South Carolina-Georgia.—Excavations were made at two sites in
the Hartwell Reservoir Basin during the period from April 22 to
June 21. One of them was located in South Carolina and the other
in Georgia. In addition, three other sites in the South Carolina area
were inspected and an extensive surface collection of artifacts was
made at one of them. Owing to the refusal of the owner to permit
digging, no attempt was made at the latter site to determine its depth
or the extent of its deposits.

One of the sites where digging was carried on is located in the
fork created by the juncture of the Tugaloo and Chauga Rivers. The
site originally consisted of one large mound flanked on either side
by alow mound. During the last 10 to 12 years the large mound was
intentionally reduced in height in order to facilitate cultivation of
the field where it is situated. Consequently its present height of
12 feet above the level of the bottom lands does not represent its
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

original height and its contour has also been modified. Four test areas
were dug in the vicinity of the present apex of the mound to deter-
mine if possible where the original apex had been, and also to discover
the physical makeup of the feature and the possible purpose for its
construction. One of the test areas exposed the outline of a rectangu-
lar structure with rounded corners and a subterranean floor. The
posts which had formed the walls had been placed at 2-foot intervals.
Because of lack of time the house remains were not completely ex-
cavated. Enough was done, however, to determine its general charac-
teristics. Two of the other test areas showed that the mound had
been erected in several stages over a period of years. In each case
the exterior mantle consisted of a hard-packed bluish-gray sandy clay
which varied from 8 to 6 inches in thickness. Each mantle in turn
had been spread over a layer of clean river sand averaging 1 foot
3 inches in thickness. There had been at least four such features,
and additional digging may reveal still earlier ones. Not much arti-
fact material was recovered, but such as was found indicates that
the latest culture represented probably was Cherokee with an earlier
underlying Etowah horizon. The site may well have been that of the
Cherokee village and mound known as Chauga.

On the Georgia side of the Tugaloo River approximately 2 miles
downriver from the Yonah Dam of the Georgia Power Co. is a village
and mound site which also has Cherokee affinities. This is the largest
site in the Hartwell Basin and lies on a sandy ridge 1,000 feet long
and 150 feet wide which parallels the river. There was a small
mound 150 feet from the northern limits of the ridge which upon
excavation proved to be quite unusual. The top layer or manile
consisted of a sandy humus. This covered a small mound of river
cobblestones of various weights and diameters which was approxi-
mately 2 feet in height and 18 feet in diameter. Directly underneath
the base of the rock mound was a series of seven heavy-packed ash
and calcined bone-filled basin-shaped hearths. Each of the hearths
was circular in outline and averaged slightly over 5 feet in diameter
and from 1 foot to 18 inches in depth. Because of the presence of the
fragmentary calcined bones it was thought that the basins served as
crematory areas over a long period of time. After the last or upper-
most hearth had served its purpose, the cobblestone mound was erected
over the crematory area, perhaps to indicate that it was a place of
particular significance or to protect the features lying beneath it.
Thus far such a manifestation is unique in southeast archeology and
it may indicate a local cult which has previously passed unnoticed
or has not been reported.

Adjacent to and south of the mound were the remains of three
houses representing different types of structure. The uppermost was
approximately square and the walls had been constructed by placing
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

individual posts in prepared post holes. Directly beneath those re-
mains was evidence for a large rectangular “town-house” type of
structure measuring 44 feet in length and 26 to 27 feet in width,
with the doorway opening toward the south. The individual post
form of construction had also been used in erecting that structure.
Immediately beneath it and resting upon sterile red clay were the
fragmentary remains of two small circular trench-type houses, the
earliest form of house found throughout the Southeast. Additional
work at this location would undoubtedly yield further evidence per-
taining to the sequence of house forms and might also give a clue
to their significance.

Two unusual ceremonial burials were found in a test area some 40
feet from the house remains. Tubular-shaped pits with saucer-shaped
bottoms had been dug in the clean sterile sand of the ridge. The pits
were approximately 2 feet in diameter and the walls of one had been
lined with small cobblestones, while those in the other were left in
their natural state. At the bottom of each pit, 5 feet 5 inches below
the surface, were the fragmentary remains of a human cranium.
Other bones may originally have been present, but they had long since
disintegrated. The rock-lined pit was filled with a dark humic soil
intermixed with some stones, while the other was filled with clean
river sand. These burials may represent a new trait for that section
of South Carolina, Georgia, and the Southeast. The specimens col-
lected during the course of the work suggest that it was of Cherokee
origin. The site has been identified, tentatively, as that of the Chero-
kee Lower Settlements town of Estatoee by some. Others think
further evidence is needed to demonstrate that such was the case,
since historically it supposedly was on the South Carolina side of
the river. Additional excavations are certainly warranted at that
location.

Cooperating institutions—In addition to the several State and
local institutions cooperating in the Missouri Basin, others partici-
pated in the Inter-Agency Salvage Program in a number of areas.
The University of Arizona carried on investigations in the Painted
Rocks Reservoir basin on the Gila River in Arizona. The Museum
of Northern Arizona continued its explorations in the Glen Canyon
Reservoir area on the Colorado River. The University of Utah also
cooperated in the Glen Canyon project, working the upper end of
the basin. The University of California made surveys and conducted
excavations in the Trinity Reservoir area on the Trinity River, the
Terminus Reservoir on the Kaweah River, in the Coyote Valley
Reservoir area on the Russian River, and in the Washoe Reservoir
basin on the Truckee River. The University of Southern California
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

worked in the Buena Vista watershed project and the Arroyo Grande
Creed watershed project in California. Idaho State College made
surveys along the Upper Snake, the Salmon, and Middle Fork Rivers
in Idaho. The University of Southern Illinois carried on surveys
and excavations in the Carlyle Dam area on the Kaskaskia River in
south-central Illinois. In New Mexico the School of American Re-
search excavated in the Abiquiu Reservoir area along the Chama
River and made surveys in the Navajo Reservoir area along the San
Juan River in northern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado. The
University of Oklahoma participated in three projects. One con-
sisted of a reexamination of the Fort Gibson Reservoir basin on the
Grand or Neosho River. Surveys and excavations were made there
a number of years ago before the dam was completed and the area
flooded. Because of a greatly lowered pool level last year it was
possible to return to the area and examine a number of sites which
had been under water for some time. The other two projects of the
University of Oklahoma were in the Sandy Creek Reservoir area
along the Blue River and Waurika Reservoir basin along Beaver
Creek, a tributary of the Red River. The University of Oregon sur-
veyed and excavated in two reservoir basins. One was the Immigrant
on Beaver Creek, a tributary of the Rogue River, and the other was
the John Day along the Columbia River. The University of Texas
continued its excavation project at the Ferrell’s Bridge Reservoir
along Cypress Creek, a tributary of the Red River in eastern Texas.
The State College of Washington continued excavations in the Ice
Harbor Reservoir area along the Lower Snake River in southeastern
Washington. In the New England area surveys were made on a per-
sonal contract basis by one member of the Department of Anthro-
pology at Harvard University and by a member of the faculty from
Temple University at Philadelphia. All these projects were carried
on under agreements with the National Park Service. In several
areas local. groups continued to assist on a voluntary basis. These
activities were mainly in Ohio, Indiana, and southern California.

ARCHIVES

The Bureau archives continued during the year under the custody
of Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker. From June 1 to6 Mrs, Blaker examined
pictorial and manuscript collections relating to the American Indian
in the University of Pennsylvania Museum in Philadelphia, and in
the American Museum of Natural History, the Museum of the Amer-
ican Indian, the New York Historical Society, the New York Public
Library, and the Frick Art Reference Library in New York. On
June 13 Miss Barbara Hemphill entered on duty as a summer interne,
detailed to the archives.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Photographic collections—Anthropologists, historians, publishers,
and interested members of the public continued in increasing numbers
to draw upon the extensive photographic collections of the Bureau as
a source of documentation and illustration. The year’s total of 534
orders and written and personal inquiries concerning photographs
represents a 20-percent increase over the previous year’s figure of
444, and is almost double the 1956 total of 294. The 1,231 prints
distributed is also an appreciable increase over the 1,019 of last year
and 978 in 1956. The preparation and distribution, during the past
2 years, of descriptive lists of specific portions of the photographic
collections have undoubtedly made more searchers aware of the photo-
graphic resources of the Bureau, the result being an increased num-
ber of purchase requests. Lists describing photographs relating to
86 tribes or subjects are now available; 21 such lists were prepared
during the past year.

There were 22 new photographic collections received during the
year, some of which are described below:

A very important collection relating to North American Indians was
received by transfer from the Library of Congress. It consists of some
7,200 photographs pertaining to over 120 tribal units of the United
States, Alaska, and Canada; the Southwest, the Northwest Coast, the
Plains, and the Great Lakes areas are particularly well covered. The
photographs were made by professional photographers from approx-
imately 1890 to 1920, and are of excellent photographic quality. Over
two-thirds of them are outdoor views; the remainder are portraits,
most of which are accompanied by the name of the individual. At
year’s end only a preliminary examination of the collection had been
made. The arrangement and cataloging of the photographs by tribe
and area will be a major project for the coming year.

An album of 60 photographs relating to the several Indian tribes re-
siding on the Muckleshoot Reservation, Wash., in the period 1902-36
was received as a transfer from the Indian Claims Commission,
through the courtesy of Arthur C. Ballard, who made and collected
the photographs. The collection, with detailed captions, includes
portraits of Indian informants and views of native activities and
equipment such as fishing gear, firemaking equipment, ceremonial ob-
jects, houses, and tools.

A collection of about 40 photographs of Plains Indians made by
commercial photographers of the late 19th century was received as a
gift from the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission,
through John Witthoft, chief curator. Another group of 26 such
photographs, including a number of Indian portraits by D. F. Barry,
was lent for copying through the courtesy of Mr. Witthoft.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Gh

A series of about 35 negatives relating to the Acoma, Laguna, and
Taos pueblos and to the Navaho and Paiute tribes, made by Vernon
Bailey during the first decade of the 20th century, was received as a
transfer from the Smithsonian library, where they had been deposited
as a gift from Mrs. Vernon Bailey in 1945.

Thirteen photographs of Chiricahua and Mescalero Apache Indians,
including recent portraits of some descendants of prominent Apache
personalities of the 19th century, were received from Mrs. Eve Ball, of
Hollywood, N. Mex. With the assistance of Apache informants, Mrs.
Ball also provided identifications and notes on several photographs in
the Bureau collections.

Copy prints of 24 portraits and views of activities at Carlisle Indian
School, collected by O. H. Bakeless, ca. 1892-1902, were forwarded by
Dr. Archibald Hanna as a gift from the Yale University Library,
through the courtesy of John Bakeless, who owns the original prints.

Eight copy photographs relating to Indians of Michigan in the
period 1865-ca. 1900, collected from various sources by the Michigan
Historical Commission, were received as a gift from the Commission,
through the courtesy of Dr. Philip P. Mason.

Mrs. Marion Vincent, of Sequim, Wash., lent for copying eight
photographs of elderly Clallam Indians taken at various dates in the
first half of the 20th century, including a portrait of old Doctor Hall,
the boatmaker.

Richard Pohrt, of Flint, Mich., forwarded as a gift eight photo-
graphs of Indians of California and adjacent western States, made by
commercial photographers about 1900.

Six photographs of Seminole Indians made in Collier County, Fla.,
ca. 1900-1928, were received from Dr. Charlton W. Tebeau, of Coral
Gables, Fla., through Dr. William C. Sturtevant.

Two snapshots of the tombstone of Joseph Pawnee No Pashee, first
governor of the Osage (d. 1883), located at Pawhuska, Okla., were
received as a gift from R. B. Schackleford, of Pawhuska.

Manuscript collections.—There is a continued increase in the utiliza-
tion of the manuscript collections by anthropologists and other stu-
dents. About 305 manuscripts were consulted by searchers, either in
person or by the purchase of 9,696 pages of reproductions. In addi-
tion, 68 mail inquiries concerning the manuscript collections were re-
ceived, and a considerable number were examined by the archivist in
preparing replies. As a result of this examination, new and more
complete descriptions of 61 manuscripts were drafted for the catalog,
annotations were added to numerous other catalog entries, and lists
describing certain related groups were prepared for distribution.

Thirteen lots of manuscript material were received in the archives.
The following have been cataloged and made available for reference:
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

4517. Beam, George L. (official photographer, Denver & Rio Grande Western
Railroad). Miscellaneous correspondence and news clippings. Ca.
1917-27. 1 portfolio.

4507. Corbusier, William Henry. “Record of William Henry Corbusier, Colonel,
U.S. Army, Retired.” April 10, 1924. 30 pp., typed. Relates to the
Apache Indians of Arizona.

4505. Gilfillan, J. A. Chippewa dictionary (original draft?), notes on place
names, ete.; miscellaneous lot of notes, unarranged. Ca. 1911? 1
portfolio.

4521. Harrington, John P. Miscellaneous short manuscripts, unpublished.
1940-52 and n.d. 1 box. (Titles listed in catalog.)

3323. Marye, William B. Materials relating to the sites of Indian bridges,
principally in Maryland and Virginia, and also in Delaware and North
Carolina. 1932 ca._1949 and 1956. 5 boxes.

4524. Marye, William B. “Indian Shell Heaps on Chesapeake Bay and its
Estuaries in Maryland; Some Incomplete Data Collected by William B.
Marye.” 1918 ca.—1956. 1 portfolio.

4514. Newcomb, C. F. “Sketch of Southern Portion of Queen Charlotte Islands,
B.C.” 1901. Manuscript map, approx. 33’’ x 58’’.

4518. Niblack, Albert P. Notes and correspondence relating to the ethnology
of the northwest coast of North America; miscellaneous papers, un-
arranged. Ca. 1884-89. 1 portfolio.

4525. Scott, Gen. Hugh L. Papers relating to Indian conditions, accumulated
while serving on the Board of Indian Commissioners, February 25, 1919-
July 25, 19383. 3 boxes. (Subject list in catalog.)

4504. Sturtevant, William C. ‘Notes on the History and Bibliography of Ca-
tawba Linguistic Studies.” July-August 1957. 18 pp., typed.

A summary description of the holdings of the Bureau archives was
prepared for the National Historical Publications Commission, U.S.
National Archives, for inclusion in the guide to depositories of manu-
scripts in the United States being prepared by the Commission.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The Bureau staff artist, E. G. Schumacher, continued work during
the year on a wide variety of artistic material for the Bureau of
American Ethnology and River Basin Surveys. An appreciable
amount of time was also devoted to various illustrative tasks needed
by different departments of the Smithsonian Institution.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The Bureau’s editorial work continued during the year under the
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued one
Annual Report and four Bulletins, as follows:

Seventy-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Hthnology, 1956-
1957. ii+28 pp.,2 pls. 1958.
Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos, 49-56. x-+356 pp., 75 pls., 5 figs.,
15 maps. 1957.
No. 49. The Ormond Beach Mound, east-central Florida, by Jesse D.
Jennings, Gordon R. Willey, and Marshall T. Newman.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

No. 50. Hair pipes in Plains Indian adornment, a study in Indian and
White ingenuity, by John C. Ewers.

No. 51. Observations on some nineteenth-century pottery vessels from the
Upper Missouri, by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 52. Revaluation of the Eastern Siouan problem, with particular em-
phasis on the Virginia branches—the Occaneechi, the Saponi, and the
Tutelo, by Carl F. Miller.

No. 53. An archeological reconnaissance in southeastern Mexico, by Mat-
thew W. Stirling.

No. 54. Valladolid Maya enumeration, by John P. Harrington.

No. 55. Letters to Jack Wilson, the Paiute Prophet, written between 1908 and
1911, edited and with an introduction by Grace M. Dangberg.

No. 56. Factionalism at Taos Pueblo, New Mexico, by William N. Fenton.

Bulletin 165. Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and Zufli Pueblos, by Frances
Densmore. xii+118 pp., 6 pls. 1957.

Bulletin 166. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 8. Excavations in the McNary
Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon, by Douglas Osborne. With ap-
pendixes by Marshall T. Newman, Arthur Woodward, W. J. Kroll, and B. H.
McCleod. x-+258 pp., 40 pls., 6 figs., 19 maps. 1957.

Bulletin 167. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon, by
Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans. xxviii+664 pp., 112 pls., 206 figs. 1957.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 148, vol. 7. Index to the Handbook of South American Indians.

Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods: Modern intertribal organizations on
the Northwest coast, by Philip Drucker.

Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 9-14:

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservior area, North
Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper.

No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas, by
Robert B. Cumming, Jr.

No. 11. The Spain site (391LL.M301), a winter village in Fort Randall Reser-
voir, South Dakota, by Carlyle 8S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr.

No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears.

No. 18. Historic sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area,
Florida-Georgia, by Mark F. Boyd.

No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Reser-
voir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen.

Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker, Robert
F¥. Heizer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas E. Gullberg,
Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold.

Bulletin 171. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A study in ecology and society, by
Robert F. Spencer.

Bulletin 172. The story of a Tlingit community: A problem in the relationship
between archeological, ethnological, and historical methods, by Frederica de
Laguna.

Bulletin 178. Anthropological Papers Nos. 57-62:

No. 57. Preceramiec and ceramic cultural patterns in Northwest Virginia,
by C. G. Holland.

No. 58. An introduction to Plains Apache archeology—the Dismal River
Aspect, by James H. Gunnerson.

No. 59. The use of the atlatl on Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, by M. W.
Stirling.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

No. 60. A Caroline Islands script, by Saul H. Riesenberg and Shigeru
Kaneshiro.

No. 61. Dakota winter counts as a source of Plains history, by James H.
Howard.

No. 62. Stone tipi rings in north-central Montana and the adjacent portion
of Alberta, Canada: Their historical, ethnological, and archeological as-
pects, by Thomas F. Kehoe.

Publications distributed totaled 28,131 as compared with 28,558
for the fiscal year 1957.

COLLECTIONS
Acc. No.

216667. Late 18th-century wine bottle.
219119. Miscellaneous archeological objects.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

216556. Archeological and human skeletal material from Nebraska, excavated
by River Basin Surveys archeologists in the summer of 1948.

217608, 218413. Archeological material excavated from Buffalo Pasture site in
Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County, S. Dak.

214120, 217212. (through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson) 21 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Oregon, Wyoming, and South Dakota.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist on the staff of the Bureau from
1900 to 1944 and a research associate since his retirement, died at
his home in Newton, Mass., on May 2, 1958. Dr. Swanton is best
known for his extensive work on the Indians of the Southeastern
United States and as chairman of the DeSoto Commission. He was
the author of 5 extensive articles in the Annual Report series of the
Bureau, 12 complete Bulletins, 2 Anthropological Papers, and 2 pa-
pers in the War Background Studies. He was coauthor of three Bul-
letins and edited Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary. His The Indians
of the Southeastern United States, Bulletin 187, and The Indzan
Tribes of North America, Bulletin 145, are outstanding contributions.
The report of the DeSoto Commission, of which he was the unnamed
author, is in continuing demand. Dr. Swanton was a member of the
National Academy of Sciences. He received the Viking Medal and
Award for Anthropology in 1948.

Dr. John P. Harrington and Dr. A. J. Waring continued as re-
search associates of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Dr. M. W.
Stirling, as research associate, used the facilities of the Bureau
laboratory and continued his study of collections made on field trips
to Panama and Ecuador in previous years.

There were 2,772 letters of inquiry about American Indians and
related problems received in the Director’s office during the year.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 81

Information was furnished by staff members in answer to many of
the queries, and to others, information leaflets or other printed items
were supplied.

Eleven bibliographies or information leaflets were prepared or
revised and duplicated for distribution to the public, as follows:
SIL-16, 2d rev., 6/58. Indian Crafts and Indian Lore. (Bibliography.) 3 pp.
SIL-50, rev., 8/57. Selected List of Portraits of Prominent Indians in the Col-

lections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 3 pp.

SIL-90, rev., 3/58. Dealers in Second-Hand Scientific and Government Publica-
tions. 2 pp.

SIL-100, 8/57. Anthropology as a Career. 18 pp. (Reading list, pp. 14-18.)

SIL-105, 8/57. Selected Bibliography on Cherokee Customs and History. 4 pp.

SIL-132, 12/57. Selected References on the Middle American Area. 5 pp.

SIL-133, 12/57. Bibliography on Indian Languages and Language Families.
6 pp.

Aeon 12/57. American Indian Languages. (Explanation.) 2 pp.

SIL-137, 12/57. The Cherokee Language. (Explanation with references.) 2 pp.

SIL-174, 6/58. Selected References on the Indians of the Southeastern United

States. 12 pp.

SIL-175, 6/58. Selected References on Present-day Conditions among United

States Indians. 9 pp.

In addition to the leaflets described above, many bibliographies and
information leaflets were compiled on topics of a general or specific
nature, linguistic problems or terms, picture information, etc., and
typescript copies sent out to hundreds of civic organizations such as
the Scouts, Campfire Girls, summer camps, church clubs, and women’s
clubs throughout the country, as well as to the general public. The
information files and bibliographic material were constantly reviewed
by staff members so that the most up-to-date material for term papers
could be sent in answer to hundreds of requests from high school and
college students. Manuscripts were frequently read and appraised by
staff members for colleagues and scientific organizations. Specimens
were identified for owners and data on them supplied.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank H. H. Roserrs, Jr., Director.

Dr. Lzonarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1958:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two research divisions:
the Division of Astrophysical Research, for the study of solar and
other sources of energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of
Radiation and Organisms, for investigations dealing with radiation
as it bears directly or indirectly upon biological problems. Shops—
for metalwork, woodwork, and optical electronic work—are main-
tained in Washington to prepare special equipment for both divisions,
and a shop for high precision mechanical work at Cambridge. <A field
station for solar observation is located at Table Mountain, Calif.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The most important event of the past year was the activation of the
Optical Satellite Tracking Program, within two hours of the launch-
ing of the first artificial earth satellite on October 4, 1957. The
resulting data have already produced vital new information about
the density and temperature of the upper atmosphere and the earth’s
equatorial bulge. The exploration of space by manned and unmanned
space vehicles continues to receive study, and specific plans have been
formulated for placing an astronomical telescope in a satellite orbit.

The Observatory has pursued its investigation of solar-system phe-
nomena, particularly of cosmic gas dynamics and celestial mechanics};
and studies of the origin, structure, and probable age of meteorites
have continued.

The close liaison between the Astrophysical Observatory and the
Harvard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, and other research centers in the Boston area continues to
bring mutual benefit. Its long-term goal, to make crucial astronomi-
cal observations and experiments above the atmosphere, is well on the
way to realization.

Solar astrophysics—At the Table Mountain Station, Alfred G.
Froiland has been measuring atmospheric ozone, to determine the
light absorption of ozone in a vertical path, both in the visible spectral
range and in the infrared, from a single spectrobologram; and also,
possibly, to measure the quantity and quality of haze. This study

82
SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

may reveal other related effects of energy absorption in the upper
atmosphere. By calculating theoretical spectra for early-type stars,
and calculating the blanketing effects in the solar atmosphere, Dr. Max
Krook has been investigating the propagation of disturbances through
a stellar atmosphere, and associated phenomena such as radio fre-
quency emission and the acceleration of charged particles. With Dr.
J. C. Pecker, of the Paris Observatory, he plans to apply a method
he has devised for solving equations in nongray atmospheres. Dr.
Krook continues his efforts to obtain exact numerical solutions of non-
linear kinetic equations for the case of shear flow with heat transfer,
and to determine a wide range of values of the Mach number, the
Knudsen number, and the temperature ratio. Such solutions will
bear on the validity of various approximation procedures for solving
Boltzmann equations. The formal mathematical analysis of these and
related problems was completed this year.

Dr. Charles Whitney continued the investigation of gas-dynamical
problems associated with the solar atmosphere and the atmospheres of
variable stars. He has formulated the equations appropriate to the
solar atmosphere; initial integrations have been performed on an
electronic computer, and the stability of the equation is being investi-
gated. From studying variable stars of small amplitude and their
pulsational instability, he hopes to determine the exact limits to the
domains of variable stars, and the properties of variables near these
limits. Spectrographic data on cepheid variables will furnish an
empirical foundation for subsequent investigations of the gas dy-
namics of variable stars. Dr. Whitney is also testing the theory that
the ionization zone is the seat of pulsational instability. During the
year he completed a detailed theoretical explanation of the period-
luminosity relationship, which has significance for problems of stellar
evolution and the size of the galaxy.

Dr. Alan S. Meltzer, before he left the Observatory in September
1957, carried out studies of solar line profiles and the variation of
Doppler half-widths of lines with varying atomic weights, to deter-
mine whether the broadening mechanism is kinetic temperature or
turbulence. The atomic-weight dependence of the Doppler broaden-
ing of these lines corresponds to a kinetic temperature of about 10,000°
K, a value substantially higher than that predicted by accepted
theories of the solar atmosphere.

Upper atmosphere.—Dr. Theodore E. Sterne has been studying the
inferential methods used in evaluating observational data, and the
probable degree of validity of the resulting conclusions—one of the
most important problems in astronomy today. He has developed
methods based on celestial mechanics for inferring the density of the
upper atmosphere from the motions of artificial earth satellites;
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

application of the formula indicates a value several times higher than
previous estimates. Such information will greatly improve our
understanding of solar-terrestrial relationships in general. Dr. Sterne
is also developing general literal analytical theories of the motions
of satellites of flattened planets. Since adequate numerical treat-
ments are costly and time-consuming, a comprehensive analytical
treatment is desirable to facilitate the inference of air densities, and
possibly of gravitational anomalies, from observations of satellites.

Balloon experiments relating to stellar scintillation are being carried
out by Dr. J. Allen Hynek and George J. Nielson, in cooperation with
Col. David G. Simons of the Aero Medical Field Laboratory, Hollo-
man Air Force Base, the Winzen Laboratories of Minneapolis, and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Instrumentation Laboratories.
This project hopes to determine how the scintillation spectrum varies
with atmospheric height and the altitude at which the scintillation
effect terminates; to test miniature instrumentation for future use;
and to initiate an airborne research program for the Astrophysical
Observatory.

A new technique that will extend astronomical observations to the
far ultraviolet region of the spectrum and to the X-ray region is being
developed by the Director and Robert J. Davis of the Observatory
staff. This involves the design of a telescope for use in space, and
the completion of related theoretical scientific and engineering studies.

The Director completed a theoretical study of the nature and thick-
ness of the lunar dust layer. He concludes that the layer of loose dust
is not appreciable and that it can consolidate into a porous matrix,
so that it will not be a major hindrance to our exploration of the moon.

Meteoritical studies.—Research on meteors has been emphasized at
the Astrophysical Observatory. The Director’s predictions as to the
small number of meteoritic bodies likely to strike vehicles in space have
been supported by the early data from the artificial earth satellites.
Continuing studies of the relation between meteors and comets are
expected to yield more information about the nature and origin of
comets. Under the supervision of Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, some 400
meteors photographed with Super-Schmidt cameras have been ana-
lyzed to determine the nature and distribution of meteoritic orbits.
From analysis of the atmospheric decelerations, light curves, and
photographic appearances, he concludes that meteors are highly frag-
mentable and often dissolve into a cluster of fragments. He finds no
evidence for meteors of asteroidal origin among the precise data from
the 400 reductions, and no hyperbolic meteors have been certainly
detected. All photographic meteors appear to be of cometary origin.
From a comparison of visual and photographic magnitudes of meteors,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

Dr. Jacchia concludes that visual estimates of meteor brightness are
strongly affected by the Purkinje effect when the meteors are fainter
than magnitude —1. Such an effect is bound to influence all statistics
and extrapolations based on visual meteor counts.

In a study of the width of meteor trails, the Director and Dr. G. S.
Hawkins found that the meteor columns had a finite diameter of
approximately 1.3 m larger than would be expected from diffusion;
the width is attributed to a continuous fragmentation process.

Under the direction of Dr. John S. Rinehart, the Observatory has
expanded its study of meteorites, as projected last year. Much has
already been achieved toward the attainment of the four chief goals:
Collecting and identifying micrometeorites in the upper atmosphere;
designing and constructing an X-ray fluorescent microanalyzer, under
the direction of Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., to use for the point-to-point
analysis of the metallic constituents of iron meteorites; measuring the
abundance of isotopes in meteorites, under the direction of Dr. Edward
L. Fireman; studying the surface features of meteorites for evidence
of ablation. Dr. Rinehart has concentrated on the study of micro-
meteorites and ablation. He and Paul Hodge designed a special col-
lector, for use in aircraft, which filters and recovers particulate matter
from the air. Some 30 high-altitude flights have now collected sev-
eral thousand particles which are almost certainly of extraterrestrial
origin. This program will expand during the next year.

Edward P. Henderson of the U. S. National Museum and Prof.
David Williams of the University of Florida have assisted in the
detailed study of ablation; the surface features of the Grant Meteorite
received particular attention.

Studies of high-speed impact, in which meteoritic material was fired
at bricklike materials, were initiated, and results of these tests are
now being analyzed.

Dr. Edward L. Fireman completed his investigation of the exposure
time of meteorites to cosmic rays, and the energy of cosmic rays in
space, by measuring the argon 39 in the Sikhote-Alin Meteorite. From
measurement of this and other radioactive isotopes, he can estimate
the probable age and original shape of various meteorites, and con-
cludes that the Carbo Meteorite reached the earth about 1,500 years
years ago, and was a nonspherical object in space.

John Wood is attempting to relate the various types of silicate
meteorites to a parent planet, and investigate the processes that take
place during the early stages of planetary evolution. Carlos Var-
savsky, as consultant to the Astrophysical Observatory, carried out
calculations that indicate a lunar origin for tektites; he showed that
the Whipple-Rinehart model for the ejection of tektites from the
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

moon could account for their observed distribution over the earth’s
surface.

A metallographic study of the structure of meteorites is being
made by Mrs. Lynne Farrell.

Satellite Tracking Program.—This program, under the direction
of Dr. J. Allen Hynek, began operating on a 24-hour basis immediately
after the launching of the first sputnik. By the end of the fiscal year,
the 12 stations for the optical tracking of artificial earth satellites
were completed. The Baker-Nunn cameras for the precision photo-
graphic program had been installed, and 20 observers and their fami-
lies had reached their posts. Pending the installation of the cameras,
an interim observational program was carried out, under the super-
vision of Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, in Hawaii, and Kenneth Morrison,
in Argentina. Since the cameras began operation they have produced
many successful observations of the satellites, serving as the basis for
scientific research and analysis.

The Moonwatch program, under the supervision of Leon Campbell,
Jr., was activated within a few hours of the first launching. As of the
end of the year, 230 registered teams working all over the world have
contributed valuable data on the various satellites. Since the begin-
ning of the program on October 4, 1957, they have sent more than
4,000 observations to the computations center at the Astrophysical
Observatory.

The reduction and analysis of the optical observations proceeded
under the supervision of Richard Adams. From calculations based on
the computational methods devised by Drs. L. E. Cunningham, T. E.
Sterne, L. G. Jacchia, C. A. Whitney, and D. Lautman, the Astro-
physical Obervatory has been able regularly to provide orbital predic-
tions of satellite passages, vital for the successful optical tracking of
the satellites, and subsequent evaluation of telemetered readings of
on-board instrumentation.

Scientific analyses of data obtained by the Satellite Tracking Pro-
gram were carried out by various members of the staff. From prelimi-
nary determinations of upper atmosphere parameters, basic new
knowledge was gained of the density and temperature of the upper
atmosphere above an altitude of 150 kilometers, which will apply to
the design of future satellites and of rocket-powered glide and skip
aircraft and to problems of reentry of objects in ballistic orbits. Other
new information obtained to date includes an improved value of the
coefficient “J” of gravitational flattening.

In partial fulfillment of its contractual obligations to the Inter-
national Geophysical Year, through the National Science Foundation,
the Observatory issued a series of special reports on the results
of satellite data analysis, at intervals of roughly two weeks. Under
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

the supervision of Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling, 13 reports issued between
October 15 and June 30 received wide distribution.

In conjunction with the satellite observations, a program has been
developed for obtaining observations of the earth’s albedo. For this
study A. Danjon has developed an ingenious differential photometer.
On the recommendations of Dr. J. Allen Hynek and Dr. George van
Biesbroeck, six stations have now been equipped with the instrument
and preliminary observations have already reached the Astrophysical
Observatory.

PUBLICATIONS

Volume 2 of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics was
completed, with the publication of numbers 5-18. Number 10 was of
particular importance in presenting a complete collection of the optical
observations of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta, during their
entire lifetimes.

During the currrent year the following publications by staff mem-
bers of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various journals:

ApamMs, R. M.; McCumser, N.; and BRiINKMAN, M. Processed observational data
for U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta. Smithsonian Contr.
Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 287-337, 1958.

AsHBROOK, J.; ScHm“Line, G. F.; and Srexnz, T. HE. Glossary of astronomical
terms for the description of satellite orbits. Smithsonian Contr. Astro-
phys., vol. 2, pp. 211-217, 1958.

CAMPBELL, L., Jr., and HyNeEK, J. A. Visual observations of Satellite 1957 Alpha
One made by Moonwatch stations. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2,
pp. 245-274, 1958.

Davis, R. J. 21-cm observations near galactic longitude 120°. Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 125, p. 391, 1957.

Davis, R. J.; WELLES, R. C.; and WuHrepte, F. L. On determining the orienta-
tion of a cylindrical artificial earth satellite. Astronautica Acta, vol. 38,
p. 231, 1957.

FIrEMAN, ©. L. Argon-389 in the Sikhote-Alin meteorite fall. Nature, vol. 181,
p. 16138, 1958.

The distribution of helium-3 in the Carbo meteorite. Nature, vol. 181,

p. 1725, 1958.

Nuclear processes in geology. In “Nuclear Science Series,” Nat. Res.
Council, Nat. Acad. Sci., June 1958.

FIREMAN, BH. L., and ZAHRINGER, J. Depth variation of tritium and argon-37
produced by high-energy protons iniron. Phys. Rev., vol. 107, p. 1695, 1957.

Jaccuia, L. G. On the “ecolor-index’’ of meteors. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 358,
1957.

On two parameters used in the physical theory of meteors. Smith-
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 181-187, 1958.

Basic orbital data for Satellite 1957 61. Smithsonian Contr. Astro-
phys., vol. 2, p. 285, 1958.

Successive revisions of orbital elements for Satellite 1957 Beta.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 339, 1958.

492520—59—_7

88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

RINEHART, J.S. Meteorites. Discovery, August 1957, p. 336.

Distribution of meteoritic debris about the Arizona meteorite crater.

Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 145-160, 1958.

Fracturing under impulsive loading. Bull. Univ. Missouri School of

Mines and Metallurgy, No. 95, 1958.

Optical tracking of earth satellites. Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc., ser. 2,
vol. 3, p. 290, 1958.

Rinewart, J. S., and Scuiiine, G. F. Additional orbit information for
U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 al and 81. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol.
2, p. 199, 1958.

Scuittine, G. F. Soviet orbit information for Satellites 1957 a2 and il.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 281, 1958.

ScHILiine, G. F., and Fercusson, EH. 8. Soviet orbit predictions and orbital in-
formation for Satellites 1957 al, a2, and Beta. Smithsonian Contr. Astro-
phys., vol. 2, p. 219, 1958.

Scumutine, G. F., and Sterne, T. E. Preliminary orbit information for
U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 al and a2. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol.
2, p. 191, 1958.

Stowey, J. W. A chart for finding a satellite’s distance and elevation. Smith-
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 348, 1958.

Srerne, T. E. A suggested analytical treatment of the orbit of a close satellite.
Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 33, 1957.

Analytical orbits of close satellites of oblate planets. Astron. Journ.,

vol. 62, p. 96, 1957.

Celestial mechanics of artificial satellites. Sky and Telescope, vol. 17,

p. 66, 1957.

The gravitational orbit of a satellite of an oblate planet. Astron.

Journ., vol. 63, p. 28, 1958.

Formula for inferring atmospheric density from the motion of an
artificial earth satellite. Science, vol. 127, p. 1245, 1958.

Sterne, T. E., and Dieter, N. The constancy of the “solar constant.” Astron.
Journ., vol. 62, p. 147, 1957.

Sterne, T. H.; Forkart, B. M.; and Scur1ine, G. F. An interim model at-
mosphere fitted to preliminary densities inferred from U.S.S.R. satellites.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 275, 1958.

Sterne, T. E., and Scuriine, G. F. Some preliminary values of upper at-
mosphere density from observations of U.S.S.R. satellites. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 207, 1958.

VARSAVSKY, C. M. Origin of tektites. Nature, vol. 181, p. 172, 1958.

Wurrrre, F. L. Exploring the upper atmosphere. Think, vol. 23, p. 5, 1957.

Comments on the sunward tail of Comet Arend-Roland. Sky and

Telescope, vol. 16, p. 426, 1957.

The meteoritic risk to space vehicles. Jn “Vistas in Astronautics,”

p. 115. Pergamon Press, 1957.

Orbit accuracy and ranges for ground-based optical tracking. In

“Vistas in Astronautics,” p. 258. Pergamon Press, 1957.

Optical tracking of artificial earth satellites. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc.,

vol. 103, p. 215, 1958.

Stand by for satellite take-off. Pop. Mechanics, vol. 108, p. 65, 1957.

Observations of Satellite I. Sci. American, vol. 197, p. 37, 1957.

WHIPPLE, F. L.; Boyp, L. G.; Hynex, J. A.; and ScHiitiine, G. F. (editors). Or-
bital data and preliminary analyses of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, No. 10, pp. 189-347, 1958.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

Wuirtney, C. A. Comments on the present status of the pulsation theory. Astron.
Journ., vol. 62, p. 149, 1958.

The Ca II emission of classical Cepheids. Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Liége,

ser. 4, vol. 20, 1958.

Granulation and oscillations of the solar atmosphere. ‘Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 365, 1958.

WHITNEY, C. A., and Cox, J. P. Stellar pulsation. IV. A semitheoretical period-
luminosity relation for classical Cepheids. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 127, p.
561, 1958.

WuHirney, C. A., and Stone, P. Numerical integration for nonadiabatic com-
pression waves in the solar atmosphere. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 149, 1957.

Wrient, F. W.; Jaccuia, L. G.; and Wurepte, F. L. Photographie (-Aquarid
meteors and evidence for the northern Aquarids. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p.
225, 1957.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Various members of the staff attended meetings and presented
papers before the American Astronomical Society, the American Phys-
ical Society, the American Geophysical Union, the National Tele-
metering Conference, the American Institute of Mining and Metallur-
gical Engineers Conference, and the American Meteorological Society.

Every member of the scientific staff has given lectures before schools,
colleges, civic groups, and military organizations, on the subjects of
satellites and space. Some have taken part in round-table discussions
on television and radio.

For the annual meeting of the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, the Observatory displayed a series of models illustrating the
Baker-Nunn camera, the Norrman time standard, and the satellite
tracking station buildings and layout.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek represented the Astrophysical Observatory at
the opening ceremonies of the satellite tracking station at Curacao.
He also took part in two symposia: Space Telescopes, at the Air Tech-
nical International Center, Wright-Patterson Air Station; High Al-
titudes, at Bethesda, Md.

Leon Campbell, Jr., represented the Director at the Eighth Annual
Congress of the International Astronautical Federation, in Barcelona,
Spain.

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling represented the Smithsonian Institution
at the Eleventh National Conference on the Administration of Re-
search, held in Washington, D.C. At a special meeting of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, May 1958, he reported the scientific results
obtained by the Optical Satellite Tracking Program.

Dr. John S. Rinehart participated in the Symposium on Properties
of Materials of the American Institute of Metallurgical, Mechanical,
and Petroleum Engineers in New York, and the Symposium on Min-
ing Research at the Missouri School of Mines. He also lectured at
the Summer Science Institute at Northeast Missouri State Teachers
College.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling, Dr. J. Allen Hynek, and the Director
participated in conferences of the Technical Panel on the Harth Satel-
lite Program of the National Academy of Sciences’ U.S. National
Committee for the International Geophysical Year, as well as meet-
ings of various working groups of the Special Committee on Space
Technology of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics.

Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, at the end of May, visited various Caribbean
islands to make an on-the-spot investigation of the demise of Satellite
1957 Beta, from reports of eyewitnesses.

The Director served as delegate to the Eleventh General Assembly
of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics in Toronto,
last September, and was a participant in the Conference on America’s
Human Resources to Meet the Scientific Challenge, sponsored in
February 1958 by the President’s Committee on Scientists and En-
gineers at New Haven, Conn. He was a contributor to the Second
Annual Air Force Office of Scientific Research Astronautics Sympo-
sium at Denver, Colo., in April 1958, presenting a paper “On the
Lunar Dust Layer.”

In national science and defense, the Director was called to testify,
on April 21, 1958, before the U.S. House of Representatives Select
Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration, on the needs for
the United States of America in space exploration. He served as
consultant to the U.S. Office of Naval Research and to the U.S. Air
Weather Service on problems related to the coming Age of Space.
He has been elected chairman of the Technical Panel on Rocketry
and is a member of the Technical Panel on the Earth Satellite Pro-
gram of the International Geophysical Year; chairman of the Panel
on the Atmosphere, Scientific Advisory Board to the Air Force; mem-
ber of the Committee on Cosmic and Terrestrial Relationships of the
American Geophysical Union; and member of the working group on
Space Surveillance, National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics.

The Director is editor of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astro-
physics and of a new international publication: Planetary and Space
Physics.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Research on photomechanisms in plants continued, with special
emphasis on those growth responses controlled by low levels of red
and blue radiant energy. Further investigations by Dr. William
H. Klein and Victor Elstad were made of the red, far-red mechanism
that controls photomorphogenic processes in seed germination, seed-
ling development, flowering, and other related responses. In these
responses, the red (620-680 mu) induces the growth response, which
can be nullified by subsequent exposure to the far-red (710-730 my).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

If bean seedlings are simultaneously exposed to monochromatic
red and far-red radiant energy, the growth response elicited is deter-
mined by the energy ratio of the two sources. The red response is
dominant, even up to ratios of 1 to 10, although at this ratio the
response is only 50 percent of that produced by red used alone.

The interaction of gibberellin, kinetin, and cobalt with the photo-
process has been studied and evaluated. The results indicate that
there is no direct interaction between red irradiance and the added
substances, although all these materials do exert a modifying influence
on the final growth response. These reactions were assayed by the
measurement of the opening of the stem hook of young Black Valen-
tine bean seedlings, which has been shown to be a quantitative deter-
mination of the growth response.

Dr. John B. Wolff and Leonard Price continued studies on the
effects of radiant energy on the biosynthesis of protochlorophyll in
leaves of higher plants grown in the dark. A single exposure to a
saturating irradiance of red or blue energy converts most of the
protochlorophyll present in the dark-grown leaf to chlorophyll a.
Subsequently, protochlorophyll is resynthesized in the dark from
precursors present in the leaf, but during the first 2 or 3 hours this
process is very slow. Later, the rate of synthesis gradually increases.
The experimental procedure followed was to expose the leaves briefly
to monochromatic energy, then incubate in the dark overnight, and
next test for their ability to resynthesize protochlorophyll. It was
found that red energy near 650 my» is more effective than an equal
quantity of blue energy near 445 my in stimulating the rate of proto-
chlorophyll resynthesis. These wavelengths were selected because
they are at the maxima of the action spectrum for the photochemical
conversion of protochlorophyll to chlorophyll a. If the red irradia-
tion is followed immediately by a treatment with far-red energy be-
tween 710 and 730 my, the stimulatory action due to red energy can
be largely nullified. The far-red energy by itself had little effect on
pigment synthesis.

In a study of the biochemical changes involved in the development
and maturation of the chloroplast of higher plants, some progress
has been made in the isolation of intact proplastids from dark-grown
leaves. In excised leaves which had been irradiated with red energy,
both the protein concentration and dry weight of the isolated plastid
fraction were found to have increased over those of etiolated leaves,
but the protein had increased more rapidly than the dry weight.
Studies are now in progress to determine the conditions for biosyn-
thesis of plastid components, with emphasis on the carbohydrate
energy sources required for such syntheses.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Dr. Alice P. Withrow and Dr. Walter Shropshire, Jr., measured
the growth of tomato plants given various regimes of light sequences
which involved supplementing a 17-hour period of high-intensity
fluorescent light with 7 hours of red and/or far-red radiant energy.
It was found that neither red nor infrared caused any increase in
height as compared to those that received a 7-hour dark period.
However, a far-red exposure given during the 7-hour period, either
continuously or in a sequence of 15 minutes on and 15 minutes off,
caused the stems to almost double in length. If, in the 7-hour period,
the far-red were followed by red, only a slight growth was noted. If
this procedure were in effect for 14 complete cycles on each of 15 con-
secutive days, totaling 210 cycles, more than 90 percent reversal of
the far-red growth potentiation was secured. Undoubtedly, the far-
red acts as a reversing agent of the red-inhibited stem growth initiated
during the 17-hour high-intensity period. Cycling the far-red with
red prevents the far-red action. It also was found that the chloro-
phyll content of the youngest mature leaves was reduced by 20 per-
cent if they were exposed to 7 hours of far-red. There was little
change if red or infrared were used during the 7-hour period.

It has previously been reported that far-red radiant energy in the
spectral region from 710 to 820 mp, when used as a supplement to
X-rays, significantly increases the frequency of chromosomal aberra-
tions. This year, Dr. Robert B. Withrow and Dr. Carl C. Moh ex-
tended the study to determine the region of far-red which gives the
maximum effectiveness in increasing the X-ray effect on chromosomal
breakage.

Root tips of broad bean (Vicia faba) were pretreated with a 3-hour
exposure of far-red radiant energy of a specific wavelength and then
irradiated with 100 roentgens of X-rays. Using an irradiance of
1500 pw/cm?, wavelengths at 730, 760, 780, 800, and 820 mu were
tested. It was found that roots irradiated at 760 mp yielded 67 per-
cent more chromosomal aberrations than the control (X-rays only),
and those with 780 mp, 54 percent, both increases statistically signifi-
cant. Pretreatment with radiant energy at 800 mp increased the ab-
errations by 20 percent, but 730 and 820 mp gave no increase. It may
be concluded that far-red radiant energy from 760 to 780 mp is most
effective in increasing the frequency of chromosomal aberrations in-
duced by X-rays. In the past year it also was found that red radiant
energy from 620 to 680 mp, when applied subsequent to or simul-
taneous with the far-red treatment, can nullify the far-red potentiat-
ing effect. On the other hand, blue energy was ineffective in re-
versing the potentiation induced by the far-red. This result implies
that the red versus far-red reversible system found at the chromosomal
level is analogous to that occurring in a wide variety of photo-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 93

morphogenic responses, such as seed germination, seedling develop-
ment, and flowering.

In studying the effect of blue light on growth, Dr. Walter Shrop-
shire, Jr., investigated the detailed action spectrum of the first
positive tip curvature of the oat coleoptile, using a grating mono-
chromator and irradiating the coleoptile at 10 my steps from 350 to
520 mp. From this action spectrum, it is concluded that the active
pigment initiating the growth response is yellow, probably carotenoid
in nature, with absorption maxima at 410-415, 440-445, and 470-475
mp. <A flavin photoreceptor appears unlikely, although a peak was
observed in the near-ultraviolet at 370 mp. The curvatures in the
ultraviolet may be due to screening across the plant tissue by an in-
active secondary pigment with an absorption at about 370 mp.

PUBLICATIONS

WitTHROW, R. B.; KieIn, W. H.; and Hustap, V. Action spectra of photo-
morphogenic induction and its photoinactivation. Plant Physiol., vol. 32, pp.
453-462, 1957.

WoLrr, JOHN B., and Pricr, Leonarp. Terminal steps of chlorophyll @ biosyn-
thesis in higher plants. Arch. Biochem. and Biophys., vol. 72, pp. 293-301,
1957.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Various staff members attended several national and international
meetings to present results of research in progress. Early in the year,
Dr. Robert B. Withrow and Dr. Alice P. Withrow attended the
Gordon Conferences at Meriden, N.H., where Dr. Robert B. Withrow
lectured on “Photocontrol of Growth by Red Light.” At the annual
meeting of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, Stanford,
Calif., the following papers were presented :

Stimulation of protochlorophyll synthesis in dark-grown bean leaves by irradia-
tion with low energy, by J. B. Wolff, L. Price, and R. B. Withrow.

Kinetics of the far-red inactivation of photomorphogenesis in the bean hook, by
W. H. Klein, R. B. Withrow, and V. Hlstad.

Interaction of red and far-red radiant energy in modifying X-ray-induced
chromatid aberrations in broad bean, by C. C. Moh and R. B. Withrow.

The mode of action of light and temperature, by R. B. Withrow.

Status of action spectrum and photoreceptor pigment in phototropism, by W.
Shropshire, Jr.

An International Symposium on Photoperiodism and Related Phe-
nomena in Plants and Animals, sponsored by the National Research
Council and the National Science Foundation, was organized under
the chairmanship of Dr. Robert B. Withrow and held at Gatlinburg,
Tenn. in October 1957. Papers entitled “Interaction of Growth Fac-
tors with the Photoprocess in Seedling Growth,” by W. H. Klein, and
“A Kinetic Analysis of Photoperiodism,” by R. B. Withrow, were
presented at the symposium.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Dr. Robert B. Withrow, Chief of the Division of Radiation and
Organisms, died on April 8, 1958, of a heart attack at the University
of Minnesota Hospital in Minneapolis, Minn. Dr. Withrow came to
the Smithsonian Institution as Chief of the Division of Radiation
and Organisms in 1948. Prior to this, he had held positions at the
University of Cincinnati, Purdue University, and the Argonne Na-
tional Laboratory and had served as consultant to the U.S. Army
Air Force for gravel culture and hydroponics installations. Dr.
Withrow was internationally recognized for his contributions to the
knowledge of light reactions in plants.

Respectfully submitted.

F. L. Wutertz, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Collection of Fine
Arts

Sirs: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1958.

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 35th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Wednes-
day, December 4, 1957. Members present were Paul Manship, chair-
man; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; Leonard Carmichael, sec-
retary ; Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Lioyd Goodrich, Walker
Hancock, Bartlett Hayes, Charles Sawyer, Stow Wengenroth, and
Archibald G. Wenley. Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Col-
lection of Fine Aris, was also present.

A resolution on the death of Mahonri M. Young, a member of the
Commission since 1933 to the time of his death November 2, 1957,
was submitted and unanimously adopted.

Dr. Finley, chairman of the executive committee, reported that
this committee had met on October 30, 1957. The executive commit-
tee, acting as a nominating committee, recommended the following
actions, which were accepted by the Commission for recommendation
to the Board of Regents:

Reappointment of Robert Woods Bliss and George Hewitt Myers
for the usual 4-year period.

Election to the Commission of Henry P. Mcllhenny, to fill the
vacancy caused by the resignation of John Nicholas Brown, and of
Ogden Pleissner, to fill that caused by the death of Mahonri M.
Young.

Reelection of officers: Paul Manship, chairman; Robert Woods
Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard Carmichael, secretary.

Election of the executive committee: David E. Finley, chairman;
Robert Woods Bliss, Archibald G. Wenley, and Gilmore D. Clarke,
with Leonard Carmichael and Paul Manship, ex officio.

Congressional bills and their effect upon the National Collection
of Fine Arts and priorities in the Smithsonian building program
were discussed.

95
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Discussion of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, its
activities and relations with other similar services, concluded with
a resolution commending the Chief of the Service, Mrs. John A. Pope,
and her assistants for their fine work, noting especially the steady im-
provement in the scope and quality of the Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice since its establishment 6 years ago.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects:

Bronze, John Quincy Adams Ward (1880-1910), by Charles H. Niehaus (1855-
1935). Gift of the National Sculpture Society, New York City.

Two oils, Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne (1881-1947), and Heavy Sea, by Paul
Dougherty, N.A. (1877-1947). Henry Ward Ranger Bequest.

Oil on wood, James Rumsey (1748-1792), by Benjamin West (1738-1820).
Received from George A. Rumsey as a gift from Kugene A. Rumsey and brothers.

Watercolor on ivory, William Bass, by undetermined artist. Gift of Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur P. Drury.

Wood paneling of Gothic library from ‘“Miramar,” Newport, R.I. Gift of Mrs.
Alexander Hamilton Rice.

Wood paneling of an 18th-century French Renaissance drawingroom from
“Miramar,” Newport, R.I. Gift of George D. Widener and Eleanor Widener
Dixon.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Two miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer
as follows:

112. William Parsons, 2d, of Gloucester, Massachusetts, by Washington
Blanchard (ac. 1831-43 in Boston), from A. C. Walling, Brookline, Mass.

113. Mordecai Manuel Noah (1785-1851), by John Wood Dodge (1807-1893),
from the Estate of Ettie W. Noah Wilson, Washington, D.C.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two oils, Scene with Ruins (Tomb of Metellus, thought at the time
of Richard Wilson to have been the Villa of Maecenas), said to have
been by Richard Wilson (1714-1782), and Frances, Countess of Clare-
mont, said to have been by Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792), lent
February 23, 1931, by the Estate of Henry Cleveland Perkins, were
withdrawn February 24, 1958, by Robert R. Wallach, heir.

LOANS RETURNED TO THE SMITHSONIAN

Oil, Self Portrait, by George P. A. Healy, lent March 138, 1957, to
the Corcoran Gallery of Art for an exhibition “Presidential Por-
traits” was returned September 6, 1957.

Two oils, President John Tyler, by George P. A. Healy, lent Janu-
ary 25, 1957, to the Bureau of the Budget, and Beach of Bass Rocks,
Gloucester, Mass., by Frank Knox Morton Rehn, lent April 26, 1957,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97

to the Federal Communications Commission, were returned October
25, 1957.

Oil, The Sea, by Edward Moran, lent April 23, 1953, to the De-
partment of State was returned November 6, 1957.

Four oils, Rustic Dance, in the manner of Jean Antoine Watteau,
lent June 11, 1953, to the United States Court of Military Appeals,
and Moonrise, by Ralph Albert Blakelock, September Afternoon, by
George Inness, and Lago Maggiore, by William Stanley Haseltine,
lent February 9, 1954, to the Department of State, were returned
November 22, 1957.

Oil, Dr. George Washington Carver, by Betsy Graves Reyneau,
lent October 4, 1955, to the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, was returned December 5, 1957.

Two oils, Captain John Ericsson, by Arvid Nyholm, lent May 16,
1957, to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
and Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by Ralph Albert Blake-
lock, lent February 9, 1954, to the Department of State, were returned
December 12, 1957.

An oil, Temple Mountain, by Chauncey Ryder, lent March 15, 1955,
and a plaster bas relief, Charles Evans Hughes, by Harry L. Raul,
lent January 24, 1956, to the Department of Justice, were returned
February 3, 1958.

Three oils, Niagara, by George Inness, The Torrent, by John Henry
Twachtman, and Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant, lent
March 14, 1957, to the Department of State were returned March
5, 1958.

Oil, Figure Group, by O. Lear, and wood engraving, Rockwell
Studio, by Macowin Tuttle, together with two paintings from the
Lending Collection lent October 4, 1955, to the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, were returned March 18, 1958.

Two oils, Male Wood Duck in a Forest Pool and Male Wood Duck,
by Abbott H. Thayer, lent June 20, 1956, and June 26, 1956, respec-
tively, to the Interstate Commerce Commission, were returned May 2,
1958.

Two oils, Major General Henry T. Allen and Major General Rob-
ert Lee Bullard, by Seymour M. Stone, lent May 23, 1952, to the
Department of Defense, were returned June 3, 1958.

Oil, Furbelows, by Albert Sterner, lent April 26, 1957, to the Fed-
eral Communications Commission, was recalled June 20, 1958.

Oil, Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel, lent February
6, 1957, to the United States Court of Military Appeals, was recalled
June 26, 1958,
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ART WORKS LENT

The following art works, oil paintings on canvas unless otherwise
noted, were lent for varying periods:

To Blair House, Washington, D.C.:
November 22, 1957_-________ Moonrise, by Ralph Albert Blakelock. (Re-

turned March 18, 1958.)

Lago Maggiore, by William Stanley Haseltine.
(Returned March 18, 1958.)

September Afternoon, by George Inness. (Re-
turned March 18, 1958.)

Rustic Dance, in the manner of Jean Antoine

Watteau.
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C.:
September 26, 1957_________ The Right Honorable Winston Churchill, by
Hal Denton.
October 25, 1957 ko 0222 we Soldat de Crimée, by Harriet Blackstone.

To Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., for an exhibition, “American Classics
of the 19th Century,” October 17 through December 1, 1957, afterward to be
circulated by the Museum Exhibitions Association through July 15, 1958:

September 25, 1957_______-- At Nature’s Mirror, by Ralph Albert Blakelock.
(Returned December 16, 1957.)
Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder.
High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer.
(Courtesy of The National Gallery of Art.)

To the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.:

Octohber/2ZS, 1957222 eee. Woodrow Wilson, by John C. Johansen. (Re-
turned November 12, 1957.)
To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington,
IDWORS
December 12/1957 =o. Mrs. John Brooks Henderson, by Jean Joseph
Benjamin-Constant.
A Neopolitan Lady, by Cesare Biseo (water-
color).
Landscape, by DeLancey Gill (watercolor).
Roosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile
Walters.
Unknown Lady, by Pierre Bouret (bronze bust).
Fox Terrier and Rat, by Hdward Kemeys (poly-
chromed plaster).
JaNUALYe2 odo aaa eee Figure of a Moor, by Ascenzi (watercolor).
The Mirror, by Robert Reid, N.A.
The Walk to Gethsemane, by Johannes A. Oertel.

To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.:

March!28 Ob Saat fame ies The Sea, by Hdward Moran.

To the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.:
April'4, LOSS si WU hel Lae) September Afternoon, by George Inness.
ApriE 29195 Sree eee Temple Mountain, by Chauncey F. Ryder.

May. 7, 1958222 toe es October Breezes, by Albert Pike Lucas.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

To the Meltzer Gallery, New York City (for color reproduction; prints to be
used overseas by United States Information Agency) :
November 4, 1957___-_--_-__ Man in White, by Cecilia Beaux. (Returned
February 25, 1958. )
To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C.:
September 18, 1957_------ Under Western Skies, by Carl Oscar Borg
(etching).
On the Rim, Grand Canyon, Arizona, by Carl
Oscar Borg (etching).
Back Door, by Charles W. Dahlgreen

(etching).

Western Pines, by Charles W. Dahlgreen
(etching).

U.S. Capitol Dome, by Frances Farrand Dodge
(etching).

Glacier National Park, View of Lake Josephine,
by Eugenie Fish Glaman (etching).
November 7%, 1957..--_____ Depths of the Woods, by Lillian M. Genth.
(Returned December 6, 1957.)
The Bathers, by Robert Reid, N.A.
Round Hill Road, by John Henry Twachtman.
November 27, 1957_-______ Circe, by Frederick Stuart Church.
A. Breton Sunday, by Hugene Vail.
Bell Foundry, Germany, by Walter Shirlaw.
Street Shrine, by Jerome Myers.
Song of the Sea, by William IF. Halsall.
To the United States Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D.C.:

JaAnUAry SO; T9582 - sso The Flume, Opalescent River, Adirondacks, by
Alexander Wyant.
JumeyZ26 195822 se Hyening After a Shower, by Carleton Wiggins.

To Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., to be hung in the Joseph Henry
House:

September 27, 1957________ Joseph Henry, by Christian Schussele.
To the House of Representatives, Honorable Richard B. Wigglesworth:
November 6, 1957 -._____ Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Mass., by

Frank Knox Morton Rehn, N.A.
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C.:
Hebruary, 6;,, 1958... Canal in Venice, San Trovaso Quarter, by
Robert F. Blum.
The Continentals, by Frank Blackwell Mayer.
To the District of Columbia Tax Court, Washington, D.C.;
December, 6) 1957-2 = Depths of the Woods, by Lillian M. Genth.
To the United States National Museum, Division of Military History, Wash-
ington, D.C.:
May, 26 195840 22. = te ee German armor, in part 17th century, in part
reproduction :
1 complete suit.
1 shield.
2 helmets; a burgonet, and a cabasset.
2 swords, one with scabbard.
2 halberds.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

To the office of Vice President of the United States:

December 30, 1957_------- Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by
Ralph A. Blakelock. (Returned March 13,
1958. )
Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne.
February 4, 1958_...__-__ In the Plateau Country, by William Henry

Holmes (watercolor).
Shin-Au-Av-Tu-Weap, God Land, Canyon of the
Colorado, Utah, by Thomas Moran (water-
color). (Returned June 138, 1958.)
To the Walter Reed Army Medical Hospital, Washington, D.C.:
DUNE? 2, NOH SSs ee Ee Chester Arthur, by Lot Flannery (plaster
bust). (Returned June 138, 1958.)
To The White House, Washington, D.C.:
alive Se oe Emergence, by Andrey Avinoff (watercolor).
A Neopolitan Lady, by Cesare’ Biseo
(watercolor).
A Yellowstone Geyser, by Richard N. Brooke
(wash drawing).
Landscape, by DeLancey Gill (watercolor).
In Monument Park, Colorado, by Walter Paris
(watercolor).
Landseape Sketch, by Walter Shirlaw (water-
eolor and pencil).
Roosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile
Walters.
(All returned October 3, 1957.)
September 12, 1957__---- Man in White, by Cecilia Beaux. (Recalled from
White House October 25, 1957, and lent to
United States Information Agency for repro-
duction. Returned to White House Febru-
ary 28, 1958.)

January 20, 1958_____--- Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty.
March) 5 1958222 ee Landscape Sketch, by J. Frank Currier
(watercolor).
Sketch on the Potomac, by Lorenzo James Hatch
(watercolor).

Spring Brook, Rock Creek Park, by Macowin
Tuttle (wood engraving).

Snowbound, by Macowin Tuttle (wood
engraving).

Captain John Ericsson, by Arvid Nyholm.

A Tree Study, by Ross Sterling Turner
(watercolor).

Aurora Australis, by Frank W. Stokes.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

On August 5, 1957, 29 paintings by Alice Pike Barney and 5 by other
artists were received from Dayton Art Institute to which they had
been lent. On December 6, 1957, a pastel portrait of Head of a Negro
Boy, received from Col. James Perrine Barney, was added to the
Lending Collection.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

A watercolor, Street in the Pueblo of Zuni, New Mexico, by De-
Lancey Gill, lent August 7, 1956, to the Bureau of the Budget, was re-
turned October 25, 1957.

Two oils by Edwin Scott, The Seine at Paris, lent May 24, 1956,
and Ships at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 1, lent February 18, 1953, to the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, were re-
turned January 28, 1958.

An oil, St. Germaine des Pres No. 1, by Edwin Scott, and a water-
color, Musketeer on Guard, by A. Arrunutegin, lent October 4, 1955,
to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, were returned
March 13, 1958.

The following paintings were lent for varying periods:

To The White House, Washington, D.C.:
September 12, 1957____-_- Venice, by J. Hopkinson Smith (watercolor).

Three Dogs, by John Morris.
To the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. :

September 20, 1957_____- Porte St. Martin et Enterrement, by Edwin Scott.
Ship at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 1, by Edwin
Scott.

(Both returned September 26, 1957.)
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C.:
September 26, 1957______ The Honorable Theodore Roosevelt, by Sidney L.
Smith (etching).
To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C.:

November 27, 1957______- Onteora, by Alice Pike Barney (pastel).
In Southern France, by Alice Pike Barney
(pastel).

Vielles Maisons (Paris), by Edwin Scott.
To Colonel James Perrine Barney, Princeton, N.J.:

December 9, 1957-------- Head of a Negro Boy, by Alice Pike Barney
(pastel).
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C.:
VANUATY on LODSasees eae Mirza Abul Fazl, by Alice Pike Barney (pastel).

To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C.:

dairy liay PAS ake yop Laura in Arabian Costume, by Alice Pike Barney
(pastel).
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.:
October 25, 19572222 eee Street in the Pueblo of Zuni, New Mexico, by
DeLancey Gill (watercolor).
DUNC ZO OGG ae a eee Musketeer on Guard, by A. Arrunutegin (water-
color).

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND
Additions to the principal during the year amounting to $1,275.01
have increased the total invested sums in this fund to $38,365.53.
THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

No. 186, Quince Street, by W. Emerton Heitland (1893- )
watercolor, purchased by the Council of the National Academy of
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Design April 4, 1955, was assigned by the Academy to Columbus
Gallery of Fine Arts, Columbus, Ohio.

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, and assigned
to American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the fol-
lowing two paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art

Commission at its meeting December 4, 1957.

No. 70. Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne (1881-1947), assigned to the James Lee
Memorial Academy of Arts (now the Memphis Academy of Arts), Memphis,
Tenn., in 1929, was accepted to become a permanent accession.

No. 110. Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty, N.A., (1877-1947), assigned to the
William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City, Mo., in 1933, was accepted
to become a permanent accession.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the Na-
tional Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned
as follows:

Title and Artist Assignment

188. Midnight Procession, by Paul W. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Tex.
Zimmerman (1921— ).

189. Tranquil Dignity, by Robert Bid- Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center,
ner (1980—_ ). Colorado Springs, Colo.

190. Cadiz at Dusk, by Dean Ellis Colgate University, Hamilton, N. Y.
(1922-  ).

191. Self Portrait, by Gerald Mofchum University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
(1926—_).

192. Houses Eastside (watercolor), by Oakland Art Museum, Oakland, Calif.
Hd Graves (1917—__).

193. Ebbtide (watercolor), by Lenard Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore,
Kester (1917-— ). Md.

194. Circus Friends (watercolor), by (Not yet assigned.)
A. Henry Nordhausen (1901-_ ).

195. That Lonesome Road (water- (Not yet assigned.)
eolor), by Roy M. Mason
(1886-—_ ).

196. Foundation (watercolor), by Carl Penn State University, University Park,
R. Kinscherf (1919-  ). Pa.

197. Portrait of an Old Man, by Sidney Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas,
EK. Dickinson (i890- ). Tex.

198. Between Shifts (watercolor), by Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield, Mass.
Peter Paul Dubaniewicz
(1913-  ).

199. Gay Head (watercolor), by Amy New Britain Institute Art Museum,
Jones (1899- _ ). New Britain, Conn.

200. Peace Memorial, Hiroshima (wa- Butler Institute of American Art,

tercolor),
(1905-_).

by Mario Cooper

Youngstown, Ohio.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Title and Artist

. Freeway (watercolor), by Rich-
mond I. Kelsey (1905-  ).

. Paisaje Espanol, # 2,
by Paul Sample (1896-_).

. Springtime in Paris,
by Irving Nurick (1900- ).

. Coastal Landscape,
by Edward Betts (1920- ).

5. Benares on the Ganges,
by Maurice Sterne, N. A.
(1877-1957).

. Sea and Wharf at Provincetown,
by Eric Isenburger (1902— ).

. Nets, by George Harding
(1882—).

. North Shore Shipyard,
by Cleade Enders (1925- ).

. Everyday is Washday (water-
eolor), by Frederic Whitaker
(1891-_).

. Philadelphia (watercolor), by
by Hugh Gumpel (1926— ).

. The Horseless Carriage
(watercolor), by John W.
McCoy, II (1910-__ ).

103

Assignment

California Palace of the Legion of
Honor, San Francisco, Calif.

Fort Worth Art Center, Fort Worth,
Tex.

Lyman Allyn Museum, New London,
Conn.

Butler Institute of American Art,
Youngstown, Ohio.

(Not yet assigned.)

(Not yet assigned.)

Crocker Art Gallery, Sacramento,
Calif.

Staten Island Institute of Arts and
Sciences, New York City.

(Not yet assigned.)

(Not yet assigned.) .

The Newark Museum, Newark, N.J.

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Ninety-six exhibitions were circulated and shown in 264 museums
and galleries during the past season, 95 in the United States and 1

abroad, as follows:

UNITED STATES

Paintings and Drawings

Title
American Primitive Paint-
ings.

Source

Dr. Otto Kallir of the Galerie St. Etienne, New
York; artists, galleries, museums, and private

collections.

California Painting___.._____

Municipal Art Center, Long Beach.

Canadian Abstract Paintings. National Gallery of Canada ; Embassy of Canada.

Paintings by Sir
Churchill.
Paintings by Jan Cox____--__

Winston Artist ; Hallmark Cards, Inc.; British Embassy.

Belgian Government; private collectors; Boston

Museum of Fine Arts.

Dutch Art 1945-1955 (includ-
ing sculpture).

Dr. W. Sandberg, Stedelijk Museum; EH. L. de
Wilde, Van Abbe Museum; A. M. Hammacher,

Kroller-Muller State Museum; Hmbassy of the
Netherlands.

A Frenchman in America,
Charles-Alexandre Lesueur.

492520—59——_8

Museum of Le Havre; American Hmbassy in
Paris.
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Paintings and Drawings—Continued

Title Source
Indian Paintings from Raja- Sri Gopi Krishna Kanoria; Arts Council of Great
sthan. Britain; W. G. Archer, Victoria and Albert
Museum.
Kokoschka’s Magic Flute_____ Minneapolis Institute of Arts; artist; Embassy
of Austria.

Mexican Work by Cock van Cock van Gent; Catherwood Foundation.
Gent.
A. J. Miller Watercolors_____-_ Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.
Second Pacific Coast Biennial. Santa Barbara Museum of Art; artists, dealers,
and private collectors.

Plant Portraitse-- sae University of Colorado Museum, Boulder.
Nealsislandsian. = =e a eee Cleveland Museum of Natural History.
Paintings by Tessai__________ Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai; National Museum of

Modern Art, Tokyo; Kioshi Kojin Temple in
Takarazuka; Rev. Bishop Kojo Sakamoto.
Watercolor Todays... 22. Toledo Museum of Art; dealers, artists.

Graphic Arts
The American City in the 19th Prints and Photographs Division of the Li-

Century. brary of Congress.
American Printmakers______- University of Illinois, Urbana; artists.
Recent American Prints_____ University of Illinois, Urbana; Lee Chesney;
artists.
George Bellows Prints and National Gallery of Art; Boston Public Li-
Drawings. brary; Library of Congress; Fogg Art
Museum of Harvard University.
A Century of City Views___ Royal Library of Stockholm; Embassy of
Sweden.
Karly Prints and Drawings of Robert B. Honeyman, Jr.; Los Angeles County
California. Museum.
Contemporary German Prints. National Gallery of Art.
Japanese Fish Prints______-- Dr. Yoshio Hiyama; Kokusai Bunka Shinko-

kai; Japanese Embassy; American Museum
of Natural History.

Japanese Woodblock Prints____ Un’ichi Hiratsuka; American Embassy in
Tokyo; artists.

Japanese Woodcuts I_________ United Nations Hducational, Scientific, and
Cultural O ization; Japanese National

Japanese Woodcuts II__-_____ y nae ; sagen rg Pon ;
Commission.

Theatrical Posters of the Gay Prints and Photographs Division of the Library

Nineties. of Congress.

Birds by Emerson Tuttle______ Yale University; Mrs. Tuttle.

Architecture

100 Years of American Archi- American Institute of Architects; Immaculate

tecture. Heart College in Los Angeles; architects.
A Half Century of Architec- School of Architecture, Georgia Institute of
tural Education. Technology.

Architectural Photography II__ American Institute of Architects; Architec-
tural Photographers Association; George
Hastman House.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

105

Architecture—Continued

Title

Contemporary Danish Archi-

tecture.

Contemporary Finnish Archi-

tecture.

German Architecture Today___ Bund

Source
Prof. Kay Fisker, Royal Academy of Copen-
hagen; Embassy of Denmark.
Finnish American Society; Association of
Finnish Architects; Embassy of Finland.
Deutscher Architekten ; German
Hmbassy.

Landscape Architecture Today_ California Redwood Association.
A Century of New England Norman C. Fietcher, architect; New England

Architecture.

Contemporary Portuguese Ar-

chitecture.

State and Regional Chapters of American
Institute of Architects.

Portuguese National Secretariat for Informa-
tion and the National Syndicate of Archi-
tects; Embassy of Portugal.

San Francisco Bay Region California Redwood Association; Northern
Architecture. California Chapter, American Institute of
Architects.

Wenetian Villas Tos i 22-2 Soprintendenza ai Monumenti Medievali e

Wenetian) Villas’ 1-22-52 2see { Moderni, Venice; Embassy of Italy.

American Craftsmen, 1957___

Contemporary American
Glass.

American Jewelry and Re-
lated Objects IT.

Recent Work by Harry Ber-
toia.

National Ceramic Exhibition,
Sixth Miami Annual.

Design in Holland (formerly
Dutch Arts and Crafts).

Huropean Glass Design ____-_

Two Finnish Craftsmen
(formerly Finnish Crafts).

Fulbright Designers_________

Italian Arts and Crafts______

Midwest Designer-Craftsmen_

Nylon Rug Designs__________

Religious Banners___________

Twelve Scandinavian De-
signers.

Swedish Textiles Today______

Good Design in Switzerland__

Design

Robert von Neumann, University of Illinois,
Urbana; artists.
Corning Museum of Glass.

Rochester Memorial Art Gallery,
N.Y.; artists; Hickok Company.
Knoll Associates; artist.

Rochester,

Ceramic League of Miami; Lowe Art Gallery
of the University of Miami; designers.

Department of Education, Art and Science in
The Hague; Netherlands Embassy.

Georg Jensen, Inc., New York; designers.

Waertsila-Arabia and other Finnish Manufac-
turers; Finnish-American Society, Helsinki;
Finnish Embassy ; artists.

Institute of International Education; Museum
of Contemporary Crafts in New York; Edgar
J. Kaufmann, Jr.; designers.

Compagnia Nazionale Artigiana, Rome; Italian
EXmbassy.

Art Institute of Chicago; artists.

Dorothy Liebes; duPont Company; designers.

Teachers and students of Immaculate Heart
College, Los Angeles.

Georg Jensen, Inc., New York; designers.

Royal Swedish Embassy; Foreign Office, the
Society of Industrial Design; four leading
manufacturers in Sweden; Mrs. Susanne
Wasson-Tucker ; designers.

Schweizer Werkbund; Embassy of Switzerland.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Books
Title Source
The, Austrian) Bookie 223s Austrian Embassy; publishers.
German Art Books_--~-~~--- Association of German Booksellers; German
Embassy.
Art Books from Italy_______. Cultural Division of the Italian Embassy;
publishers.
Sixty Swedish Books________ Dr. Uno Willers, Royal Library of Stockholm;

Embassy of Sweden.

A World of Children’s Books_._ Washington Post and Times Herald Book Fair;
Embassies.

Books for Young Scientists.._£‘'tiwwashington Post and Times Herald 1957
Children’s Book Fair; Drs. Kerlan and Black-
wood; publishers.

Oriental Art

Burmese Embroideries________ James H. W. Thompson; Embassy of Burma.
The Way of Chinese Landscape Dr. Fritz van Briessen.
Painting.

Chinese Ivories from the Col- Sir Victor Sasscon.
lection of Sir Victor Sassoon.

Japanese wVolls== 22s eee Japan Society, Inc.

Six Japanese Painters________ Dr. Chisaburoh Yamada; National Museum of
Modern Art in Tokyo; artists.

Paintings by Jamini Roy______ Jamini Roy.

ThaiPaintin we soso eee James H. W. Thompson.

Folk Art

Early American Woodcarving_ Index of American Design, National Gallery
OL ATE

Punchvandedudy22_- 2a Index of American Design, National Gallery
of Art.

Swiss Peasant Art.__...______ R. Hanhart, Director, Museum, St. Gall; Pro
Helvetia Foundation; Embassy of Switzer-
land.

Photography
The Anatomy of Nature_______ Andreas Feininger; American Museum of Nat-

ural History.
Photographs of Angkor Wat_.__ Loke Wan Tho; Right Honorable Malcolm
MacDonald, High Commissioner for India.
Imagevot Americas 22... a. 2 Library of Congress.
Japan I by Werner Bischof____ Magnum Photos, Inc.
Japan II by Werner Bischof__ Magnum Photos, Ine.

Perceptions) = 222 Sus ele ee Mrs. Dody Warren Weston and Donald Ross;
San Francisco Museum of Art; photog-
raphers.

Pup, Cub, and Kitten ~__ 22.2. American Museum of Natural History; Wil-
liam Vandivert.

Photographs of Sarawak______ Raffles Museum; Professor Gibson-Hill; Hedda
Morrison; USIS.

Glimpses of Switzerland_______ Pro Helvetia Foundation; Embassy of Switzer-

land.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

107

Photography—Continued

Title
The World of Edward Weston_

This is the American Harth___-

Young Germans Behind the

Camera.

Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian
Frontier.
Swedish Rock Carvings__--_--

Source

Beaumont and Nancy Newhall; National Park
Service; California Academy of Sciences;
Sierra Club.

Ansel Adams; Nancy Newhall; artists; George
Eastman House.

Dr. L. Fritz Gruber,
German Embassy.

“Photokina,” Cologne;

Anthropology

Karl Viktor, Prinz zu Wied; German Em-
bassy.

Dr. Per Nystrom, Governor of the Province of
Goteberg and Bohus; Embassy of Sweden.

Children’s Harhibitions

Argentine Children as Ilustra-
tors.

Art in Qpera I—Tosca___----

Art in Opera T—Carmen__--_

ASL See uMiyself 2)

Children’s Paintings from 45
Countries.

Phe Nour*Seasons2it— fit k=

Children’s from
Japan.

Children’s Paintings from Mo-
rocco.

Paintings

Editorial Guillermo Kraft Ltd., Buenos Aires;
Argentine Hmbassy.

Metropolitan Opera Guild.

Metropolitan Opera Guild.

Junior Arts and Activities; Galerie St. Etienne.

Embassy of Denmark; Friendship Among
Children and Youth Organizations.

Arts and Activities Magazine; Galerie St.
Etienne.
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and

Cultural Organization.

Division of Youth and Sports of Ministry of
Public Instruction, Rabat; Hmbassy of
Morocco.

Exhibitions Circulated Abroad

American Folk Art.

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail

and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 1,944.
Examination was made of 153 works of art submitted for identifi-
cation.

Effective July 1, 1957, the Pell Collection and other miscellaneous
ceramics were transferred to the United States National Museum
collections to form the division of ceramics and glass of the newly
established Museum of History and Technology, and the curator of
ceramics, formerly under the National Collection of Fine Arts, was
made acting curator of the division.

Special catalogs were published for the following 10 exhibitions:
Sculpture by Paul Manship, a Retrospective Exhibition, with an ap-
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

preciation by Mr. Beggs, illustrated; Recent American Prints; A
Century of City Views; Cock van Gent; 2d Pacific Coast Biennial;
Contemporary Portuguese Architecture; Fulbright Designers; In-
dian Paintings from Rajasthan; Swedish Textiles Today; and Nylon
Rug Designs. Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, chief of the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service, wrote special acknowledgments for
the last two and a foreword for Indian Paintings from Rajasthan;
acknowledgments for the Fulbright Designers were written by Mrs.
Jo Ann Sukel Lewis, research assistant.

Mr. Beggs gave a talk on Regionalism in American Art to the Art
League of Manatee County, Fla.; spoke on Paintings of the Passion
of Christ at the Rock Springs Congregational Church, Arlington,
Va.; and gave a talk on Private Collections Publicly Maintained to
the Arts Club of Washington. He served on the juries of two local
shows.

Mrs. Pope departed June 18 for Europe to see the exhibits of the
United States and other countries at the Brussels International Fair
and to visit England, Holland, France, Italy, Greece, and Switzerland
to study new exhibitions and make selections of some for circulation
here.

Rowland Lyon served as juror for eight local shows.

Thirty-three paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent col-
lections were cleaned and revarnished, 2 were relined, and 48 picture
frames were repaired and refinished. One plaster cast and one bronze
statue were cleaned and refinished. One painting by George Catlin
was relined to repair a 22-inch tear in the canvas, for the United States
National Museum.

The 18-foot ceiling decoration, “Dawn,” by Thomas W. Dewing, in
the Gellatly Collection, was renovated by Henri G. Courtais and in-
stalled in a specially constructed pavilion. In addition, Mr. Courtais
restored “Aurora Borealis,” by Frederick E. Church, “Madonna and
Child with Apple,” by an Old Flemish Master, and made minor re-
pairs to “Entombment,” by Rogier van der Weyden.

Glenn J. Martin cleaned and removed old repaint on 11 paintings
recently acquired.

Twenty oil portraits of World War IT leaders by John C. Johansen
and pastel drawings of the Civil War Veterans by Walter Beck have
been removed from the second floor gallery and are to be installed at
the south end of the foyer together with the miniature portraits in
specially lighted cases.

The oil portrait of President John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy, was
copied by C. Gregory Stapko in November 1957.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 109

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Thirteen special exhibitions were held during the year:

July 11 through July 31, 1957.—Recent Works by Cock van Gent, sponsored by
the Catherwood Foundation and circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service, consisting of 20 oils, 10 watercolors, and 20 drawings. A catalog
was privately printed.

August 27 through September 27, 1957.—The Sixth International Exhibition
of Ceramic Art under the auspices of the Kiln Club of Washington, D.C., con-
sisting of 223 pieces (140 by local artists, 49 by invited American artists, and 34
lent by various Washington embassies and legations as representative of national
artists of 10 countries). Craft demonstrations were given. A catalog was
privately printed.

October 20 through November 11, 1957.—The Twentieth Metropolitan State
Art Contest, held under the auspices of the D.C. Chapter, American Artists
Professional League, consisting of 278 paintings, sculpture, prints, ceramics,
and metalcrafts. A catalog was privately printed.

November 20 through December 15, 1957.—The Sixty-Fifth Annual Exhibition
of the Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 82 paintings and 13 sculptures.
A catalog was privately printed.

January 26 through February 16, 1958 —The Twenty-second HExhibition of the
Society of Washington Printmakers, consisting of 198 works in the graphic media.
A catalog was privately printed.

February 28 through March 16, 1958.—A Retrospective Exhibition of Sculptures
by Paul Manship, consisting of 117 items. An illustrated catalog was printed.

March 28 through April 13, 1958.—The Biennial Art Exhibition of the National
League of American Pen Women, consisting of 202 paintings, sculpture, prints,
ceramics, textiles, jewelry, and other craftswork. A catalog was privately
printed.

April 19 through May 11, 1958.—Swedish Textiles Today, sponsored by the
Ambassador of Sweden and Madame Boheman and circulated by the Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 113 textiles with additional
display items including glass, silver, chairs, and stools. A catalog was privately
printed.

April 26 through May 18, 1958—Exhibition of Paintings by Sir Winston
Churchill, consisting of 35 paintings being circulated by the Smithsonian Tray-
eling Exhibition Service and a portrait of Churchill by Lamar lent by the British
Embassy. President Eisenhower previewed this exhibition on April 24,1958. A
catalog was privately printed.

May 25 through June 13, 1958.—The 61st Annual National Exhibition of the
Washington Watercolor Club, consisting of 109 watercolors, etchings, and draw-
ings. A catalog was privately printed.

May 25 through June 18, 1958.—The Twenty-fifth Annual Exhibition of the
Miniature Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C., con-
sisting of 172 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

June 20 through July 13, 1958.—The Seventh Interservice Photography Contest,
consisting of 89 photographs by members of the Armed Forces.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Brags, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the 38th annual report on the Freer
Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1958.

THE COLLECTIONS

Fourteen objects were added to the collections by purchase as

follows:
BRONZE

57.22 Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (ca. 5th century B.C.). Ceremonial vessel
of the type fu; decorated with casting in relief in six main horizontal
zones; tiger-form handles. 0.446 x 0.266.

GLASS

57.19. Egyptian, 14th century (ca. A.D. 1860). Mosque lamp decorated with
colored enamels and traces of gilding; inscription names the Madrasa
of Sultan al-Nasir Hasan b. Muhammad (Cairo) for which it was made.
0.336 x 0.305 (Illustrated.)

IVORY

. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1279). Standing figure of a Buddha
with small Buddha on a lotus, and a dragon at the feet; inscription of
16 characters includes date, A.D. 1025. 0.457 x 0.130.

an
=
bo
Or

JADE

58.1 Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A.D. 1644-1912). Amber-colored agalmatolite
carved in the round to represent a phoenix among clouds and plants;
signed Chou Pin. 0.115 x 0.050 x 0.023.

MANUSCRIPT

57.16. Persian, Mongol period, Inju school (ca. A.D. 1380). First volume of
Tarjama-i Térikh-i Tabari; 198 folios, end missing; 29 miniatures in
eolors and gold. (The Freer Gallery has most of volume II: 30.21 and
47.19.) Average page: 0.422 x 0.287.

METALWORK

57.20. Persian, Sasanian period, 3d century A.D. Silver bowl, semispherical,
fluted interior with gilded central medallion framing a bearded male
bust in high relief. 0.210 x 0.062.

PAINTING

57.15. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1279). “Three Worthies of Wu-chung,”
attributed to Li Kung-lin (late 11th-early 12th century). Handscroll
in ink and colors on silk; 4 inscriptions and 33 seals on painting, 1
inscription and 2 seals on mount. 0.4438 x 1.490.

110
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 6

58.2

Recent additions to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 7

Eels)

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 111

57.17. Japanese, Ashikaga period (A.D. 1835-1568). Landscape with birds and
flowers by Kano Motonobu (1476-1559) ; handscroll in ink on paper;
one seal on painting. 0.280 x 4.830.

POTTERY

58.2 Chinese, Ming dynasty (A.D. 1868-1644). Large flask with unglazed
back; decorated in underglaze blue; early 15th century. 0.475 x 0.418 x
0.2138. (Illustrated.)

57.26. Japanese, Edo period (A.D. 1615-1868), Kutani ware. Large bottle-
shaped vase decorated with peonies and formal patterns in red, yellow,
and green overglaze enamels. 0.468 x 0.253.

57.238. Mesopotamian, Abbasid period, 9th century. Flat dish with interlacing
ribbon pattern and floral motifs in low linear relief; remains of gold
lustered lead glaze. 0.028 x 0.280.

57.24. Persian, Samanid period, 10th century. Deep bowl decorated in dark
brown, brick red, and white slip with floral patterns and kuwfic script.
0.112 x 0.393.

57.12. Persian, Seljuq period, 12th century, Rayy. Large dish decorated with a
young horseman on an arabesque ground; gold luster. 0.075 x 0.432.

WOOD SCULPTURE

57.18. Japanese, Kamakura period (A.D. 1186-1334). Figure of Bishamon-ten
with the usual attributes and standing on a crouching dwarf; painted
and gilded, metal halo, glass eyes. H. 0.572 x W. (base) 0.268. (Illus-
trated.)

Total number of accessions to date (including the above), 10,991.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Fifty Chinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired, or
remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition to this work on the collections,
Mr. Sugiura completed ¢‘ao for 18 Chinese books and repaired 11
books for the library.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 1,468. This unusually large
number is accounted for by the air-conditioning of the building which
was completed in the fall of 1957, reinstallation of exhibitions, and
redecoration of exhibition galleries. The changes were as follows:

American art:

Cop PeEI LILES eee ee er meee tye age PN Ors wd Soe TS Se ee 17
Etchings: Lu esd OO A OU 10 ORNS Yi Ored 53S 18
ah Oe TAS i n92 03 rye Oey vee ery ypu eert de Fy bois 1 py ayaa 18
(OTL a eiutah 1 eye ape Set OCD Ag A AR yee OO 0 tee EE NANG EEO 2 WEP 97
IAC UC Seeene hues ip sibNe, OU. Max eth Bee oe ME MU 32
NVESREReOlOnsst Ts SNE SOe ry el Leiba eee tet Se tn 28
Chinese art:
BLOnZ eet MEET HAIER: OM LL Se eae el tL 210
Col at ynetere Ad is arf ih) coe Bn ye ee spe ete cpr l yer pal 10
JoglG mere Meneame ee ae Se bee oe ce 116
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Chinese art—Continued

Metalwork: so 8a Be chs fone oe Ufa ety nies Oak 2 aa ee cen 24
D Srey b awe) OV sm please eta Aaa lel AYU OST a LL Tape pry ey A area a ON 90
Pottery 2 is Sis See Loh NS ar Se a ee Oe aL es yaya oe 158
Stone sculptures. 325 22. Bence ee eee eee 18
Christian art:
Crystalics 2. reese ot ene eee eee 2 2
Gl aisay a SS SO NE ee rb Ie) ater nye 2 Se ere Ree 2) Se 6
Golde cs ooete ae Ue os a See Se ee ee 18
Manuscripts ie 2 © 2c) 2 on 2 ey ee eee eek 18
SSMU TG LIN eee rs os ca cs en oe ee re 8
Stone'sculpture=.-.. 22228 See ee eee eee ee eee 2
Indian art:
SFB TON ZO ss Sepe Pe SM EUS pe 8 Se ee 2
Manuscripts:.o2 2. st 222s) wee ee eee eee. 2 a 12
Paintings eee ek ee en Se eee eee ee 30
Stone 'sculpturete 222 = aoe ee ee ee ce 8
Japanese art:
Bronze ot oS oR 2 See aed See ON Re BR ee ee 2
oaioquiers: 122 2a ths ie a a ke Ts eis oe at oS eee 21
Paintings.) 22st oe ee ea a aoe ee 174
Pottery =! 52-202 3. betes ee eee ee 69
Woodiisculptures2 22322) fee 3s os Soe ee Pee Lee hs eee eee 12
Korean art:
BPO ge eG tls Se Ne Tek i a he ee 2
BRovtery =. 2 oooh ce See See eee ee eee 36
Near Eastern art:
Bookbindings: 222 =.) = ee ee 10
Orystal.24 f o2ene she es ee ee 2
Glassoo sh oe c eb See ee eee ee eee 8
Manuseriptss20) 2 sie hey Oi ase eS eee ee oe ee 16
Metalworkis02. yess ee aA ee ee ee eee 40
Paintings i). 3 eb e) noes ese Ce ie ee Se 86
Pottery. cin220 3b os be eee ee 40
Stone ‘sculpture... oo Do eeu 2 eee ee eo 2
Tibetan art:
Paintingsooc4 22 Sete es ee eee eee Cee aoc ee ee 4
LIBRARY

The prime requirement of the library is service from and through
books. It is well known that what has once been published is often
forgotten and the rediscovery in the library may be a more difficult
process than the first discovery. All the modern refinements of cata-
loging and the invention of the fabulous fact-finding push-button ma-
chines are directed toward making rediscovery easy, but in the last
analysis the ultimate dependence is still upon human brains and skills.

The expanding program of work and the many new projects being
initiated find some of the subjects inadequately covered by the litera-
ture in the Gallery library. Other libraries owning the required ma-
terial have been most generous in furnishing it through interlibrary
loan.
SECRETARY'S REPORT as}

The 878 publications acquired during the year included purchases,
gifts, and those sent in exchange for Freer publications. Unfortu-
nately, the prices of books and periodicals continue to increase, and a
good many institutions and societies that formerly sent their journals
freely, in exchange or gratis, now find it necessary to charge for them
in order to assure continuity of publication.

Outstanding among the purchases last year were: Japan Biographi-
cal Encyclopedia & Who’s Who, compiled by the Japan Biographical
Research Department, 1958, which is the first good Japanese biogra-
phy in English since Papinot did his Historical and Geographical
Dictionary in 1909; Gunsho ruishé [Shin ko], a collectanea of miscel-
laneous writing, compiled by Kawamata Kydichi, Tokyo, 1931-37, 24
volumes with 3 supplements and index in 105 volumes; Awez-ch“i-lai,
a makimono painting illustrating T‘ao Ch‘ien’s “Homecoming Ode.”
This is a copy of a part of the Freer painting 79.119, which is attrib-
uted to Li Kung-lin. Professor Sirén’s notes and comments on the
paintings are attached to the scroll. The Yunkang, the Buddhist
Caves . . . , which began publication in 1951, was completed with 16
volumes in 36 folio volumes.

The year’s record of cataloging included a total of 1,879 entries of
which 714 analytics were made, 451 titles of books and pamphlets were
cataloged, and 48 titles were recataloged and reclassified. Once more
the specialized nature of the library and its unique importance for the
study of Oriental art are emphasized by the fact that less than 8 per-
cent of the necessary cards were available as printed cards at the
Library of Congress. This shows the original and difficult catalog-
ing required in a specialized library.

PUBLICATIONS

One publication was issued by the Freer Gallery as follows:

Ars Orientalis. The Arts of Islam and the East, vol. II. The Charles Lang
Freer Centennial Volume. 637 pp., 224 pls., and text ills. (Smithsonian
Publication 4298. Published jointly with the Department of Fine Arts,
University of Michigan. Three members of the staff contributed to this
issue. )

Papers by staff members appeared in this and in outside publica-
tions as follows:

Cahill, James F. Review of “The Arts of the T‘ang Dynasty.” Catalog of an
exhibition held at the Los Angeles County Museum, 1957. In The Journal
of Asian Studies, vol. 17, No. 1, pp. 142-143, November 1957.

Httinghausen, Richard. Bibliographie der Islamischen Einbandkunst, 1871-
1956, von Emil Gratz], K. A. C. Creswell, und Richard Ettinghausen. In
Ars Orientalis, vol. II, pp. 519-540, 1957.

Bibliography of the writings of K. A. C. Creswell. In Ars Orientalis,

vol. II, pp. 509-512, 1957.

Bibliograph of the writings of Mehdi Bahrami. In Ars Orientalis,

vol. II, pp. 625-627, 1957.

114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Ettinghausen, Richard. EHarly realism in Islamic art. In Studi Orientalistici
in onore de Giorgio Levi Delia Vida, vol. I, pp. 250-278, 1957, Rome.

An exhibition of Islamic art at the Ohio State Museum, July-August,

1956. 26 pp., 19 figs., 1956 [ie., 1957]. Ohio State University, Columbus.

Persian ascension miniatures of the fourteenth century. In Acca-

demia Nazionale dei Lincei, XII Convegno “Volta,” promosso dalla classe

di scienze morali, storiche e jiloicgiche. Tema: Oriente e Occidente nel

medioevo, pp. 860-383, 1957, Roma.

The “Wade Cup” in The Cleveland Museum of Art, its origin and deco-

rations. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II, pp. 827-366, 1957.

~ Review of “Fatih Albumuna Bir Bakis. Sur Album du Conquérant,”

par M. 8. ipsiroSlu et S. Hyiiboglu. (1955, Istanbul Universitesi Hdebiyat

Fakiiltesi Yayinlari: Maarif Basimevi, 15+153 pp.). In Ars Orientalis, vol.

II, pp. 565-567, 1957.

Review of “Jews and Arabs: Their Contacts through the Ages,” by

S. D. Goitein. (New York, Schocken Books, 1955.) In Ars Orientalis,

vol. II, pp. 591-594, 1957.

Review of “The Mosques of Hgypt from 21 H. (641) to 1365 H.

(1946) ...” Published under the auspices of the Ministry of Waqfs, Giza

(Orman), The Survey of Egypt, 1949, 2 vols. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II,

pp. 544-545, 1957.

Review of “Vorderasiatische Eniipfteppiche aus alter Zeit,’ von Wil-

helm von Bode und Ernst Kiihnel. (Braunschweig, Klinkhardt, und Bier-

mann, 1955.) In Oriens, vol. 10, pp. 362-363, 1957.

Review of “Indian Painting for the British, 1770-1880,” an essay
by Mildred and W. G. Archer. (London, Oxford University Press, 1955.)
In The Middle Hast Journal, p. 336, summer 1957.

Gettens, Rutherford J. The composition of some ancient Persian and other
Near Eastern silver objects, by Rutherford J. Gettens and Claude L.
Waring. In Ars Orientalis, vol. Il, pp. 88-90, 1957.

———, A monument of Byzantine wall painting—the method of construc-
tion. In Studies in Conservation, vol. III, No. 8, pp. 107-118, April 1958.

Physical properties of pigments. In Handbook of Chemistry and

Physics, 39th ed., pp. 1491-1494, 1957/1958. Chemical Rubber Publ. Co.,

Cleveland, Ohio.

Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution. In The Identification of

Non-Artifactual Archaeological Materials, National Academy of Sciences

Publ. 565, pp. 832-84, 1957.

Review of “Cairene Rugs and Others Technically Related, 15th-17th
Century.” In Studies in Conservation, vol. III, No. 3, p. 148, April 1958.

Pope, John Alexander. Review of “Blue and White Porcelain: A Study of
Form,” by Cornelius Osgood. In Journal of ihe American Oriental So-
ciety, vol. 77, No. 3, pp. 243-248, July—Sept. 1957.

Stern, Harold P. Translation into English of the listing of azaleas of the Jap-
anese Satsuki Society. In The Azalea Book, by Frederic P. Lee, pp. 223-
232, 1958. D. Van Nostrand Co., New York.

Masterpieces of Korean art. Catalog of the Korean exhibition travel-

ing in the United States, 1958.

Catalogue of the Hauge Collection, for the exhibition at China House,
New York, April 1958.

Usilton, Bertha M. Yesterday’s history makes today’s research. In D. 0.
Libraries, vol. 28, pp. 2-4, October 1957.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 115

Wenley, A.G. “A Breath of Spring,” by Tsou Fu-lei. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II,
pp. 459-470, 1957.

A radiocarbon dating of a Yiinnanese image of AvalokiteSvara. In

Ars Orientalis, vol. II, p. 508, 1957.

REPRODUCTIONS

The photographic laboratory made 8,432 items during the year
as follows: 5,391 prints, 861 negatives, 1,716 color transparencies, and
248 black-and-white slides. Total negatives on hand, 11,563; 3,000
old slides were removed, and present inventory for lantern slides totals
7,005; 354 reproductions in the round of Freer Gallery objects were
sold. Slide loans were as follows: 765 black-and-white, 1,354 color.

BUILDING

The roof and exterior of the building appear to be in good con-
dition; minor repairs were made and leaks in the skylights fixed
from time to time. The daylights in each of the Gallery ceilings and
the east and west corridors were replaced.

The work of making exhibition cases for the galleries and new
bookcases continued in the cabinet shop, and miscellaneous odd jobs
related to storage, exhibition, restoration, crating, and maintenance
of office and Gallery equipment were carried on as usual. Much time
was given to various jobs arising as air-conditioning of the building
was completed, such as a thorough cleaning of the attic and rein-
stallation of the exhibition galleries.

All plants, trees, and shrubs appear to be doing well. The trumpet-
vine and trellis at either end of the south side were removed and the
azalea bed was transplanted and rearranged. One Mahonia beali was
planted in the southwest corner. One Cotoneaster salicifolia was re-
placed. The four plots of grass were removed and resodded completely
with zoysia grass. The grass, as well as all the plantings around the
fountain, has made an excellent showing. Lantanas have been planted
for the present season and are doing well.

HERZFELD ARCHIVE

On October 29, 1957, a gift of one notebook and three booklets of
Arabic inscriptions to be added to the Herzfeld Archive was received
from Prof. Dr. Adolf Grohmann.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 111,674. The highest monthly attendance was in April,
14,539, and the lowest was in February, 3,517.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

There were 2,253 visitors to the office for the following purposes:

Hor;general informa tion®==— =e eee 911
Totsubmit objects: forexamination= se.) eee 434
Tovstudy in library 2202 0s Ss ee ee ee a ee ee ee 439
To see wstafi Members 22 22255 a ee ee ee eee 180
To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries_________________ 117
Toysee building, and jinstallations==Ss2—2 2 eee 26
TOVEXAMINELOL DOLLO Ws SIGeg =e ee eee 23
‘To_ sketch in‘ galleries s= = 22 tife 2 ee ee ee 10
To see objects in storage:
AMEOPICAN QT Gs es eRe ee Sd ee ee 2 Oe 26
Armenian, Byzantine, iGreek MSS; etel=2 23. eee 2
Christianvart (Washing tonuMiSS:)ieses- 2 oe eee 45
Far Hastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, etc_-____________________ 23
Kar Hastern= metalwork: 222 23252 2 ee eee 82
Rar bastern: paintings: == 2-22 se eee 97
Mar’ Wastern pottery. 22. eee es ee eee 61

Near Eastern glass, bookbindings, ete-__-.__________.___________ 8
Near, Hastern metalwork: <= 223s se eee 5
Near Hasternopaintin gs! ee Bee ee 20
Near Hastern spotterys 22222 = eee ee ee eee 8

AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1957
October 8. Dr. John Alexander Pope, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery
of Art. ‘Ceramic Finds in the Far East.’”’ Attendance,
222.
November 5. Dr. John D. Cooney, Curator of Egyptology, Brooklyn
Museum. “Adventures in Collecting.” Attendance, 108.
1958
January 7. Harold P. Stern, Associate in Japanese Art, Freer Gallery of
Art. ‘‘The Korean Imperial Treasures.’ Attendance, 165.
February 11. Dr. Jane Mahler, Associate Professor of Fine Arts, Columbia
University. ‘‘The Glory of Medieval Burma.” Attend-
ance, 173.
March 11. Dr. Charles K. Wilkinson, Curator, Ancient Near Eastern
Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art. ‘‘Achaemenian Art:
The Art of a Persian Empire.” Attendance, 175.
April 15. W. G. Archer, Keeper, Indian Section, Victoria and Albert
Museum, London. “The Loves of Krishna.” Attend-
ance, 166.

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

1957
August 13. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting
of 4-H Club representatives. Attendance, 220.
November 19. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting

of the Commodity Stabilization Service, Sugar Division.
Attendance, 311.

November 20. The United States Department of Agriculture held an all-day
meeting of the Federal Extension Service. Attendance,
255.
SECRETARY’S REPORT HW bE

1958
January 27. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting
of the Rural Electrification Agency, Southern Region,
Telephone Program. Attendance, 125.
January 28. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting
of the Secretary’s Offices, Farmers Union Meeting. At-
tendance, 151.

Four other meetings were held in the Freer Gallery of Art building
as follows:

1957
September 23. Board of Governors of the Washington Society of the Archaeo-
logical Institute of America met in the library. Attend-
ance, 7.
December 14. Far Eastern Ceramic Group met in the library. Attendance,
25.
1958
May 14. Board of Governors of the Washington Society of the Archaeo-

logical Institute of America met in the library. At-
tendance, 6.

June 4, Through the Department of Commerce, National Bureau of
Standards, it was arranged to have the Freer Gallery of
Art open the evening of June 4, 8:30 to 10:30 P.M., to
members of the Sugar Refinery Congress. Docent service
was given by Harold P. Stern and James F. Cahill. At-
tendance, 46.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and ex-
clusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below),
were made on 4,049 objects as follows: For private individuals,
2,538; for dealers, 1,067; for other museums, 444. In all, 863 photo-
graphs were examined, and 471 Oriental language inscriptions were
translated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 19
groups totaling 453 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent
service by staff members.

Three groups totaling 41 persons were given docent service by
staff members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 84 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here
under the auspices of the State Department to study museum ad-
ministration and practices in this country.

In the technical laboratory 130 objects from the Freer Collections
and 69 from outside sources were examined. The following projects
were begun:
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

1. For a period of four weeks in March-April, Mr. Gettens worked as research
collaborator in the chemistry department of Brookhaven National Laboratory,
Upton, L.I., N.¥Y., where he carried out analytical studies, mainly spectro-
graphic, on ancient glass and ancient bronze. Some 30 specimens from
inscribed ceremonial bronzes in the Freer Collection were analyzed
spectrochemically.

2. Chemical quantitative analysis by wet methods was started on samples of
the same series of inscribed ceremonial bronzes.

3. Systematic collection of data was begun on the technology of ancient copper
and bronze in the Far Hast.

The following projects were continued :

1. X-ray diffraction analysis of corrosion products on ancient metals.

2. Identification, by X-ray diffraction methods, of the jade objects in the
Freer Collection.

3. Studies on the salt efflorescence on earthenware bodies. Carried on exchange
of specimens and information with Museum of Natural History, Brussels.

During the year, 8 written reports were made and 387 verbal reports
given on objects examined in the technical laboratory.

In August 1957 Mr. Wenley left for 214 months to attend the Inter-
national Congress of Orientalists in Munich where he delivered a paper
on inscriptions on bronze vessels found at Lo-yang in 1929. During
his trip to Europe he also studied museums and private collections in
the following places: Briefly in France and Switzerland, 9 days in
Munich, 5 days in Stockholm, 7 days in London, 3 days each in
Brussels, The Hague, and Athens, and 16 days in Italy.

By invitation of the Government of Pakistan and the University
of the Panjab in Lahore, Dr. Ettinghausen left in December to attend
the International Islamic Colloquium. As the initial speaker he de-
livered a paper entitled “Comments on the Nature of Islamic Art
and Its Symbols.” His 4-month trip took him to the following places
where he delivered lectures and studied museums and private collec-
tions in connection with his research in Near Eastern art: 4 weeks
in Pakistan, 4 weeks in India, 10 days in Iran, 8 days in Israel, 214
weeks in Germany and England respectively, and 2 days in Ireland.

On March 27, 1957, Mr. Stern left on a 9-month trip to the Far East
to prepare the catalog for editing and supervise photographing of the
objects and arrangements for packing and shipping of the Korean
Government Loan Exhibition. While in the Far East he delivered
lectures and studied museums and private collections in the following
places: 5 weeks in Seoul, 5 months in Japan, 2 weeks in Hong Kong,
1 week in Formosa, 1 week in Honolulu, and 1 week in San Francisco
and Seattle.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) :
1957
July 15.

July 11.

July 16.

July 18.

July 23.

August 8.

August 14.

August 23.
September 16.
September 30.
October 12.

October 16.

October 24.

November 21.
November 22.
December 11.

December 30.

December 31.

1958
January 5.

January 7.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 119

Dr. Cahill, at the State Teachers College, New Paltz, N.Y.,
‘“‘Chinese and Japanese Art.”’ Attendance, 32.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Washington, Seattle,
“Historical Travel in Iran, Afghanistan, and India.” At-
tendance, 250.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Washington, Seattle,
“Miniature Albums of the Mughal Emperors of India.”
Attendance, 220.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Seattle Art Museum, “Master-
pieces of Near Eastern Pottery.”’ Attendance, 150.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, B.C., ‘‘Historical Travel in Iran, Afghanistan,
and India.’’ Attendance, 85.

Mr. Stern, at the American Cultural Center, Kyoto, Japan,
“Some Japanese Objects in the Freer Gallery of Art.”
Attendance, 55.

Mr. Stern, at the Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan, in Japanese,
on ‘‘Japanese Art in the Freer Gallery of Art.’’ Attendance,
50.

Mr. Stern, in Osaka, Japan, in Japanese, on “Japanese Art in
the Freer Gallery of Art.’? Attendance, 20.

Mr. Stern in Nara, Japan, in Japanese, on “Japanese Art in
the Freer Gallery of Art.’”’ Attendance, 25.

Dr. Cahill, at All Souls Unitarian Church, Washington, D.C.,
on ‘“‘Chinese Painting.’? Attendance, 25.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Phillips Gallery, Washington, D.C.,
“Tran, the Country and Its Art.’’ Attendance, 41.

Mr. Stern, in Tokyo, Japan, at the National Museum, in
Japanese, ‘Japanese Art in the Freer Gallery of Art.”
Attendance, 50.

Dr. Pope, in New York, to the Chinese Art Society, “Pottery
Hunting in the Far East.”” Attendance, 70.

Dr. Cahill, in New York, at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, ‘“‘Album Painting in Japan.” Attendance, 45.

Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, at the Baltimore Museum of Art,
‘Asiatic Collections of Chinese Art.’”? Attendance, 135.
Dr. Pope, at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.,
“Asiatic Collections of Chinese Art.’? Attendance, 100.
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore,
Pakistan, delivered official message of greetings of the
Smithsonian Institution to the Vice Chancellor of the

University. Attendance, 1,500.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore,
delivered opening speech, “‘Comments on the Nature of
Islamic Art and its Symbols.”” Attendance, 650.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore,
presided at a meeting of the International Islamic Collo-
quium. Attendance, 30.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore,
before a meeting of the International Islamic Colloquium,
“Miniature Albums of the Mughal Emperors.” Attend-
ance, 30,

492520—59——_9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

1958
January 11.

January 12.

January 15.

January 16.

January 16.

January 17.

January 20.

January 21.

January 24.

January 26.

February 1.

February 7.

February 13.

February 19.

February 20.

February 21

March 5.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Peshawar, Pakistan, a brief address to
the Board of Historical Research.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at Peshawar University, Pakistan, ‘‘Mug-
hal Miniatures.’”’ Attendance, 150.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan,
Department of Arabic Studies, ‘‘Mughal Miniatures.”’ At-
tendance, 40.

Mr. Wenley addressed the annual dinner of the Smithsonian
Board of Regents, ‘‘Far Eastern Collections in the Freer
Gallery of Art Compared with Those Abroad.”’ Attend-
ance, 26.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan,
“Pottery from Muslim Countries.” Attendance, 55.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan,
Department of Islamic Civilization, “The Paintings of
Behzad.” Attendance, 75.

Mr. Gettens, at the Sidwell Friends School, Washington,
D.C., “Source of Paint Material of the Ancients.” Attend-
ance, 20.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the United States Information Service,
Chittagong, East Pakistan, ‘‘Muslim Art and Painting.”
Attendance, 150.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Calcutta, India, at the home of Chester
R. Chartrand, Public Affairs Officer of the Consulate Gen-
eral, ‘‘Mughal Paintings.’”’ Attendance, 25.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Calcutta, India, at the home of Robert
B. Jaffie, Cultural Affairs Officer, ‘‘Mughal Paintings.”
Attendance, 15.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Banaras, India, under the auspices of the
Department of Indology and the Bharat Kala Bhawan
(Museum of Indian Art) of the Banaras Hindu University,
“Mughal Paintings in the Freer Gallery of Art.’ Attend-
ance, 40.

Mr. Gettens, in New York at the Brooklyn Museum, ‘Optical
Aids in the Examination of Paintings.” Attendance, 25.
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the National Gallery of Modern Art,
New Delhi, India, ‘‘Mughal Miniatures in the Freer Gallery

of Art.” Attendance, 40.

Dr. Ettinghausen at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute, Bom-
bay, India, ‘‘The Near Eastern Collection of the Freer
Gallery of Art.”’ Attendance, 50.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute,
Bombay, India, ‘‘Mughal Miniatures in the Freer Gallery
of Art.’”? Attendance, 110.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute,
Bombay, India, ‘‘Near Eastern Potteries in the Freer
Gallery of Art.” Attendance, 45.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Tehran, Iran, to the Theological Faculty
of the University of Tehran, ‘‘Persian Elements in Mughal
Painting.”’” Attendance, 400.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 121

1958

March 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Hebrew University, Jerusalem,
Israel, ‘‘Characteristic Features of Mughal Paintings.”
Attendance, 45.

April 1. Dr. Pope, in New York City, to members of the American
Oriental Society, ‘‘Chinese Remains in Sarawak.” Attend-
ance, 75.

April 3. Mr. Stern, at China House, New York, ‘Japanese Painting
as Represented by the Hauge Collection.”” Attendance, 40.

May 1. Mrs. Usilton, in Charleston, 8.C., to the Librarians’ Section

of the American Association of Museums, ‘‘What’s New
in Museum Libraries.’”? Attendance, 30.

May 2. Mr. Gettens, in Charleston, 8.C., to the Art Technical!
Section of the American Association of Museums, ‘‘Examin-
ing Tables.”’ Attendance, 50.

May 2. Miss Elisabeth West, in Charleston, 8.C., to the Art Tech-
nical Section of the American Association of Museums,
‘‘Cross-Sections of Layered structures in Polyester Resin.”’
Attendance, 50.

May 14. Mr. Gettens, to the Abracadabra Club, Bethesda, Md.,
“Adventure in Color.’”’ Attendance, 20.

Mrs. Usilton attended the two sessions of the Regional Catalogers
and Classifiers meeting of the American Libraries Association at the
Folger Library, Washington, D.C. Members of the staff traveled
outside Washington on official business as follows:

1957

July 1- Mr. Stern in the Far East.

December 23.

July 1-3. Mr. Gettens, in Boston, visited the Museum of Fine Arts,
where he examined 10 Far Eastern objects; and the
Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, where he examined
1 Far Eastern object; and in Cambridge, Mass., visited
the Fogg Art Museum where he examined 1 Far Eastern
object.

August 26- Mr. Wenley attended meetings of the International Con-

November 12. gress of Orientalists in Munich, Germany.

September 13. Miss Elisabeth West, in Baltimore, visited the Walters
Art Gallery where she examined 96 pieces of jade and
sampled 17.

September 30- Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, visited various dealers

October 4. and museums and examined 155 Near Hastern objects.

October 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, visited the Baltimore

Museum of Art, where he examined 3 pieces of Turkish
pottery, 4 pieces of Persian pottery, and 1 piece of
Hispano-Moresque pottery.

October 24-26. Dr. Pope, in New York, visited various dealers and museums
and examined 80 Japanese prints and 35 miscellaneous
Far Eastern objects.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

1957
November 1-19.

November 6-9.

November 7-12.

November 17-20.

November 19.

November 20-24.

November 25-
December 9.

December 11.

December 16-17.

ir. Gettens, in Chicago, visited the Art Institute of

Chicago; in Denver, Colo., visited the Chappelle House,
the Schlier Gallery, and the Denver Art Museum; in
Boulder, Colo., examined Mayan pottery sherds belong-
ing to Miss Anna Shepard; in Salt Lake City, Utah,
visited the Utah Musuem of Fine Arts; in San Francisco,
saw the collection of Neil E. Compton; also visited the
E. B. Crocker Art Gallery in Sacramento, Calif., Sutters
Museum, Sutters Fort, Calif.; the Portland Art Museum,
Portland, Oreg.; the Seattle Art Museum, Seattle, Wash.;
and the Minneapolis Institute of Art, Minneapolis,
Minn. Examined 106 objects in addition to general
collections.

Mr. Gettens and Dr. Cahill, as delegates, attended meetings
of the UNESCO Conference in San Francisco.

Dr. Cahill, in San Francisco, examined 30 Chinese and
Japanese objects belonging to S. Tsuchiya, a dealer. In
Kansas City, Mo., examined 50 Chinese paintings at
the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art; in Cleve-
land, Ohio, examined 25 Chinese and 5 Japanese paintings
at the Cleveland Museum of Art.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Boston and Cambridge, Mass., ex-
amined 20 Arabic and Persian MSS. in the Houghton
Library, 60 Persian and Indian miniatures in the Fogg
Art Museum, and 1 Coptic woodcarving with bone inlay
at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Boston, attended the annual meeting
of the Trustees of “‘The American Research Center in
Egypt” at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.

Dr. Cahill, in New York, examined 8 Far Eastern paintings
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; 30 Indian and Far
Eastern paintings belonging to a private collector; and
119 paintings in the hands of five dealers; he also attended
an exibition of modern Chinese paintings at the Mi
Chou Gallery.

Dr. Pope, in London, England, attended the Exhibition,
“Arts of the Ming Dynasty,” sponsored by the Arts
Council of Great Britain and the Oriental Ceramic
Society; also saw collections belonging to the follow-
ing: Mrs. Alfred Clark, Percival David Foundation, the
British Museum, J. M. Addis, Gerald Reitlinger, F.
Brodie Lodge, G. Gompertz, R. F. A. Riesco, Sir Harry
Garner, and R. H. R. Palmer.

Dr. Ettinghausen left on a trip taking him to Lahore,
Pakistan, to attend the International Islamic Colloquium.

Mr. Wenley attended the meeting of the Freer Fund
Committee at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Mich.
1958
January 2.

February 5.

February 6.

March 3-4

March 24—
April 18.

March 27-
April 4.

March 31-
April 4.

March 29-
April 3.

April 17-18.

April 28-30.

April 28-29.

May 17.

June 16-21.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 123

Miss Elisabeth West and Mr. Gettens, in Baltimore, ex-
amined 2 European oil paintings and 1 Etruscan bronze
pitcher at the Walters Art Gallery; they then attended
the exhibition of Near Eastern Bookbindings at the
Baltimore Museum of Art.

Mr. Stern attended the opening of the Korean Exhibition
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,

Mr. Gettens, in New York, called at Brookhaven National
Laboratory. Upton, LI. to discuss technical matters
with members of their staff

Mr. Wenley and Dr. Pope, in Cleveland, Ohio, attended the
official opening of the new wing of the Cleveland Museum
of Art.

Mr. Gettens visited the Brookhaven National Laboratory,
Upton. L. 1.. where he acted as research collaborator
in the department of chemistry with Dr. E. V. Sayre,
working on spectrochemical analvsis of specimens of
glass from the Ray Winfield Smith Collection, as well as
on specimens from early Chinese bronzes in the Freer
Collection.

Mr. Stern, in New York. attended the official opening of
the Hauge Collection at China House and examined 22
objects of Far Eastern art at dealers

Mr. Wenley, in New York, attended meetings of the
American Oriental Society, including meetings of the
Executive Committee. where he presented the annual
report of the Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship
Committee Also attended meetings of the Association
of Asian Studies. Examined 31 various Far Eastern
objects belonging to five different dealers.

Dr. Pope in New York, attended meetings of the American
Oriental Society.

Mr. Wenley, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended the opening
of an exhibition of Mexican Art from Pre-Columbian to
Modern Times.

Mrs. Lnor O West, in New York, attended meetings of
Museum Store Managers at the Metropolitan Museum
of Art and the Brooklyn Museum.

Mr. Wenley. in Winterthur. Del., attended meetings of the
Association of Art Museum Directors.

Mr. Wenley and Dr. Pope, in Boston, attended the meeting
of the Council of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group, and the
general meeting of the society; Dr. Pope presided at
both meetings. Later, they went to the home of Paul
Bernat, where they examined approximately 90 Far
Eastern objects.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, visited the Metropolitan
Museum of Art. where he examined 8 Near Eastern
carpet fragments; the American Numismatic Society,
where he examined 40 Mesopotamian copper coins; and
four dealers, where he examined 227 miscellaneous Near
Eastern objects.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Members of the staff held honorary posts, received recognition, and
undertook additional duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley:

Dr. Pope:

Dr. Ettinghausen:

Mr. Gettens:

Appointed member of the Visiting Committee, Dumbarton
Oaks Research Library and Collection, Washington, D. C.,
for 1 year from July 1, 1957.

Research Professor of Oriental Art, Department of Fine
Arts, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., for 1
year from July 1, 1957.

President, Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

Served on Special Advisory Committee of the Cultural
Development Committee to formulate plans for a Festival
of the Arts and Music to be held in Washington, D.C., in
1959 or 1960.

Appointed Chairman of the Time of Year Selection Sub-
committee.

Elected Trustee, Japan-American Society.

Member, Visiting Committee, Board of Overseers of Harvard
College to the Department of Far Eastern Civilizations.
Member, Editorial Board, Archives of the Chinese Art Society

of America.

President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group

Member, House Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.

Member, Committee on Asia, American Council of Learned
Societies.

Chairman of Committee to organize and supervise the Annual
Birthday Reception and Dinner of Cosmos Club.

Appeared on television program out of Philadelphia, WCAU,
on November 19, 1957, University Museum Show, ‘What
in the World.”

Member, Editorial Board, The Art Bulletin.

Trustee, American Research Center in Egypt.

Honorary member of the Board of Historical Research,
Peshawar, Pakistan.

Member, Board of Governors, Washington Society of Archae-
ological Institute of America, Washington Branch.

Appointment extended, Research Professor of Islamic Art,
Department of Fine Arts, University of Michigan.

“Exhibition of Iranian Photographs,’ at the Middle East
Institute, Washington, D.C. Voice of America recorded
an interview in Persian with Dr. Ettinghausen who made
comments about the exhibition.

Gave a short address at Wildenstein Galleries, New York, at
the opening of an exhibition of Hossein Behzad’s illustra-
tions to Omar Khayyam’s Rubaiyat.

Chairman, Art Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

Chairman, American Committee for International Institute
for the Conservation of Museum Objects.

Ordinary Member, Council of the International Institute for
the Conservation of Museum Objects, National Gallery,
London, England.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 125

Mr. Stern: As representative of the United States Government and
American museums, cataloged selected objects of the
Korean Government Exhibition, and acted as liaison in
arranging for packing and shipping to the United States.
Represented the Freer Gallery of Art in the 60th Anniversary
Celebration of the Kyoto National Museum, Kyoto, Japan.
Organized and supervised the installation of the Loan Exhibi-
tion from the collections of Mr. and Mrs. Osborne Hauge
and Mr. Victor Hauge, at the China House, New York,
April 1-30, 1958.
Read and commented on the doctoral dissertation of Won-
Yong Kim, ‘Studies on Silla Pottery,” for the Department
of Fine Arts, New York University, New York.
Dr. Cahill: Gave a course of illustrated lectures on Chinese and Japanese
art at American University, Washington, D.C., February—
June, 1958. Attendance, 17 each lecture.
Mrs. Usilton: Critic of the schedules for 700’s (Fine Arts) of the Dewey
Decimal Classification, 16th edition.
Contributor to IJC Abstracts.

In 1957 the Freer Gallery for the first time took part in the
Wellesley-Vassar Washington Summer Intern Program under which
a group of specially qualified students get actual experience working
as volunteers in various Government offices. Miss Ellen McCance, a
fine-arts major from Vassar College, worked under the immediate
supervision of the librarian of the Freer Gallery. During the 8-week
period she helped on a variety of projects, thus gaining a well-rounded
idea of the general functions of the organization and the diiferent
phases of Gallery activity, and at the same time making a useful
contribution to the work of the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentey, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Sim: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1958:

Of outstanding importance to the National Air Museum during the
year was the progress made in the matter of a site for a new building.
On June 26, 1958, the United States Senate passed S. 1985, a bill in-
troduced by Senator Clinton P. Anderson, authorizing the prepara-
tion of plans for the construction of a suitable building for a National
Air Museum to be located on the site bounded by Fourth and Seventh
Streets, SW., Independence Avenue, and Jefferson Drive. At the
close of the year the bill had gone to the House of Representatives
and had been referred to the Committee on Public Works. The
passage of this bill by the Senate marks a long step toward the
realization of many years’ efforts in the matter of adequate housing
for the National Air Museum.

Many important accessions were received. Notable among these
were the General William Mitchell statue and a Vanguard rocket.
These are on exhibition in the Arts and Industries Building.

Progress was made in the improvement and preparation of storage
and restoration facilities. These facilities take on increasing impor-
tance as the planning of the exhibit for the new building progresses.

A new and improved exhibit in the Aircraft Building is in the
planning stage. In addition to providing a much-needed change in
this old exhibition space, it will serve as useful experience in plan-
ning the aeronautical exhibits for the new building.

The Museum’s information service continued as a growing and
active function during the year. ‘Technical, historical, and biographi-
cal information pertaining to the development of aviation was fur-
nished by the staff for Government agencies, universities, research
workers, authors, teachers, students, and the inquiring public. The
reference files, photographic files, and library of the Museum con-
tinued to expand in volume and usefulness with the acquisition of
additional data and materials from many sources.

Two Honorary Fellows of the National Air Museum, Capt. John J.
Ide, USNR, and Frederick Crawford, were appointed during the
year. A Director of the National Air Museum, Philip S. Hopkins,
was appointed and assumed his duties in February 1958. An associate
curator, Louis S. Casey, was also added to the staff.

126
SECRETARY’S REPORT PAT

ADVISORY BOARD

One meeting of the Advisory Board was held, on October 11, 1957.
The Secretary introduced the new member of the Board, Rear Adm.
R. E. Dixon, USN, who succeeded Rear Adm. James S. Russell, whose
appointment terminated July 12, 1957. The other members, Dr.
Leonard Carmichael, chairman; Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr.,
representing the Chief of Staff, Department of the Air Force; and
the Presidentially appointed citizen members, Lt. Gen. James H.
Doolittle, USAF (Ret.), and Grover Loening, continued their service
on the Board.

At this meeting the Board recommended the appointment of the
Director and Honorary Fellows above named, and also recommended
the appointment of Paul E. Garber as head curator and historian of
the National Air Museum.

The Board reaffirmed its approval of the Mall site for the National
Air Museum Building.

SPECIAL EVENTS

Several notable presentation ceremonies took place during the year.
The outstanding one was the unveiling and acceptance of the Gen.
William Mitchell statue, sculptured by Bruce Moore, and the gift of
the late George H. Stephenson. The statue was unveiled on Decem-
ber 17, 1957, by William Mitchell, Jr., in the presence of members
of the Mitchell family, the Stephenson family, and some 200 distin-
guished guests.

Other special ceremonies during the year included the presentation
of a “Falcon” guided missile by the Honorable Barry Goldwater,
United States Senator from Arizona, on behalf of the Hughes Air-
eraft Co., on April 15, 1958; an Air Mail Medal of Honor, presented
by Deputy Postmaster General Edson G. Sessions on May 14, 1958;
and a “Vanguard” rocket and satellite, presented by Rear Adm. Raw-
son Bennett of the United States Navy, on May 26, 1958.

At these presentation ceremonies, Dr. Carmichael accepted the gifts
for the Musuem with appropriate remarks.

The National Air Museum was well represented on numerous oc-
casions throughout the year by the head curator and historian, Paul
KE. Garber. Mr. Garber’s activities included the following:

The Early Birds, an organization of those who flew solo during
the first 13 years of powered heavier-than-air flight (prior to Decem-
ber 17, 1916) held their annual reunion in Washington July 27-29,
1957. They enjoyed a tour of the aeronautical exhibits conducted by
Mr. Garber, who is secretary of this organization. Their interest
was increased not only because of their personal association with the
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

beginnings of aviation but also because this Museum has been desig-
nated by them as depository for their archives and historic specimens.

The Institute of Aeronautical Sciences held a joint meeting with the
Navy at San Diego, August 1 to 16, where, at the Institute Building,
a display of aircraft, scale models, photographs, and paintings illus-
trated the growth of naval aviation from its origin in 1911 to the
present. In the opinion of many persons who attended, this was the
most complete historical display of this type ever assembled. The
organizers acknowledged the important assistance extended by this
Museum which provided most of the scale models. During this meet-
ing Mr. Garber lectured on “Glenn Curtiss, Founder of Naval Avia-
tion,” illustrating his talk with slides, a number of which were rare
views of the aircraft developed by this famous air pioneer.

On May 13, the District of Columbia Chapter of the Institute of
Aeronautical Sciences heard a lecture by the head curator on “The
History of Aeronautics.” This was a condensation of a four-part
series delivered by him at monthly meetings of the Institute chapter
formed of students in aeronautical engineering at the Catholic Uni-
versity in Washington.

The association of Air Mail Pioneers, composed of those who op-
erated the governmental postal aviation system from its beginning in
1918 until 1927 when the routes were converted into commercial air-
lines, held the annual meeting of the Eastern Division in Washington,
October 10-11. The Museum cooperated with preparation of a special
display of airmail relics, scale models and photographs of airmail
planes, and related material. A conducted tour of the collections
and a talk on Max Miller, the first postal aviator in the departmental
service, were given by Mr. Garber, who was recently president of the
District of Columbia chapter of this organization. On May 15, 1958,
this chapter headed the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of
the first continuously scheduled public service airmail route. The
head curator assisted with arrangements for a flight over the original
Washington-to-New York route in an airplane of 1918 piloted by Leon
Smith, one of the original group of airmail pilots; and with the prep-
aration of a bronze plaque which was unveiled on the anniversary date
to mark the field from which the inaugural flight had started. Another
feature of this airmail anniversary was a ceremony at the National
Aviation Club when an example of the Air Mail Flyers’ Medal of
Honor was added to the Museum collections. Authorized by act of
Congress in 1931, it has been awarded only 10 times, “for distinguished
service as an airmail pilot.”

Cooperating with the Armed Forces, Mr. Garber lectured on the
history of aeronautics to the Non-Commissioned Officers’ School at
the Air Force Base in Orlando, Fla., and gave talks on various phases

SS
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

of aviation to the Air Force Flying Club at Andrews Air Force Base
in Maryland, the Army Flying Club at Fort Myer, Va., and to several
units of reserve officers and the Civil Air Patrol. At the request of
the Navy Department, the talk on Glenn Curtiss was repeated before
the combined Naval Reserve companies of the Washington area. Con-
ducted tours of the aeronautical exhibits were provided for a group
of naval enlisted men selected for their proficiency in aviation, and
for units of the Reserve Officers Training Corps. <A talk on Brig.
Gen. William Mitchell and a description of his statue in the Museum
was given at the Air Force Historical Association meeting at Bolling
Air Force Base, September 6. A similar talk was made on January
8 at a meeting of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, of which the General
had been a member. On February 19 the Washington chapter repre-
sented the fraternity in laying a wreath at the base of that statue, and
on April 25 the American Legion paid similar tribute.

The head curator served as chief judge at the National Model Air-
plane Contest held in Cleveland, March 27, where he spoke on the
recent progress by the Museum in acquiring significant material; and
during the same month he was judge at a model contest conducted
by the Washington Junior Chamber of Commerce.

Tours of the aeronautical collections were conducted for groups of
young aviation enthusiasts at the request of Congressmen Peter Mack
of Illinois, and Robert W. Kean of New Jersey. In all, Mr. Garber
gave during the year 24 lectures, conducted 6 tours, and made 7 trips
in connection with these educational services and for inspection of
material offered to the Museum.

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

Some improvements were made during the year in the exhibits in
the Aircraft Building and the Arts and Industries Building. With
the unveiling of the William Mitchell statue, this became a permanent
part of the exhibit in the Aeronautical Hall of the Arts and Industries
Building. With the statue is a case containing Mitchell memorabilia,
and directly adjacent is the restored and reconditioned SPAD-XVI,
General Mitchell’s airplane. Twenty dioramas lent by the U.S. Air
Force, depicting the development of military aeronautics from the
Civil War to the present time, were installed in this hall and provide a
colorful and instructive exhibit. A revolving globe, with flight path
and model airplanes illustrating the first “Around the World Flight,”
was added to the Collier Trophy case. The “Falcon” guided missile
exhibit was added to the Aircraft Building.

Improvements were made to several exhibition cases by adding
overhead lighting and powered displays. These improvements in-
volved the Pulitzer, Lowe, Mitchell, and Collier cases.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Minor repairs were made to a number of aircraft and models on
exhibition.
REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION

Tt has been a year of activity at the Suitland storage facility in re-
spect to improving equipment and facilities and in preservation,
restoration, and warehousing. The proper warehousing of stored air-
craft, engines, and parts was completed. Five aircraft were cleaned,
preserved, and restored, awaiting exhibition. Twenty engines were
cleaned, preserved, and stored. Four aircraft were preserved for
outdoor storage.

Water and electrical connections were installed for Building 10, and
a concrete ramp was placed in front of the building. The heating of
Bay C of this building was improved and the insulation of Bays A
and B was begun. Other improvements in progress include roof re-
pairs, the installation of a paint booth and equipment, a wash pit for
aircraft and engines, and an engine hoist. The storage of miscel-
laneous reference material in Building 2 was improved by boxing and
warehousing.

Considerable long-range planning was done in preparation for the
major job of restoration and preparation of aircraft for exhibition in
the proposed new building.

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

The National Air Museum had occasion to serve many Government
agencies during the year. Among these were the Department of Jus-
tice in connection with patent litigation; the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare with relation to rocket information; the
Voice of America in connection with material for its programs; the
Department of State with reference to early aviation history informa-
tion; the Department of the Air Force; the Department of the Navy;
the Department of Agriculture; the Civil Aeronautics Administration
of the Department of Commerce; and the Post Office Department.

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES

As previously indicated, furnishing information to the public is
a very active function of the Museum and requires an increasing
amount of staff time. The requests for information vary from “pic-
tures of airplanes” for school children to highly technical information
required by scientists and research workers. The requests come by
telephone, mail, and personal visitation. The following examples
will illustrate the diverse nature of this information service:

The Chance Vought Aircraft Co. and the Douglas Aircraft Co.
were furnished photographs for their publications.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 131

The Museum has rendered assistance, by way of photographs, tech-
nical and historical information to such publishers as Brown Broth-
ers, H. S. Stuttman, Charles Scribner’s Sons, Baltimore Sunday Star,
Washington Evening Star, Flying Magazine, Toledo Blade, Our Navy
Magazine, The Airman, Air Force Magazine, and Model Airplane
News.

Many authors of books and articles on aviation were provided with
help through our information services. Among these were Maj. Kim-
brough Brown, Douglas Ingles, Henry R. Palmer, Jr., W. D. Johnston,
Frank O’Hasson, George Lonog, John W. Underwood, Harold More-
house, Roy Wagner, Lawrence H. Conover, and C. R. Faust.

The Wilbur Wright Junior High School of Milwaukee, Wis., re-
ceived aid in selecting photographs for display and in planning a
memorial exhibit. Assistance was rendered American University in
connection with its First Annual Aviation Education Institute.

The Museum also aided the U.S. Information Service with material
for exhibition in Athens, Greece, and Paris, France. The Comité de
Wilbur Wright of Le Mans, France, was provided with appropriate
photographs for display at their commemoration celebration of the
first flights of Wilbur Wright in France.

Many individual teachers and students were furnished information
in connection with their school aviation programs.

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Valuable additions to the reference files, photographic files, and
library of the Museum were received during the year. These records
and documents are most valuable to the Museum staff in preparing
labels, providing information services, and authenticating data.

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations is sin-
cerely appreciated :

AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION, Washington, D.C. (through Joseph Geuting,
Jr.) : The Aircraft Yearbook for 1957-58.

Arr Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, 1365th PHotTogrAPHIC Group, M.A.T.S., Orlando,
Fla.: A motion-picture film and tape recording of the ceremony when the
statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell was unveiled, Dec. 17, 1957.

ALDRIN, Cou. E. E., New York, N.Y.: Photostatie copies of two letters received
by him from Dr. Robert H. Goddard, pertaining to rocket experiments in 1920—
Pale

ALLWARD, Maurice, Middlesex, England: A copy of his recent book, ‘““Milestones in
Science.”

Bartow, Froyp H., Shoreham, Vt.: Scrapbook containing photographs and clip-
pings of his early career in aviation (loan). A folder illustrating airplanes
at the Dominguez Field aviation meet in California, 1910.

Briscor, Miss YOLANDO, Brooklyn, N.Y.: A contemporary poster pertaining to
the “Spirit of St. Louis.”
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Bumpurey, Cecit, Kent, Ohio: A photograph of Charles Lindbergh taken at St.
Louis during his transcontinental flight in 1927.

Cater, JoHN W., North Hollywood, Calif.: Copy of his recent book, “Experi-
mental Light Aircraft and Midget Racers.”

CAMPBELL, Mrs. MARgoriz, Washington, D.C.: Copy of the book which she co-
authored with Glenn O. Blough, “Making and Using Classroom Science Ma-
terials in the Elementary School”

Cart Byorr & ASSOCIATES, Washington, D.C. (through H. G. Leader): Two
reels of motion pictures illustrating the presentation ceremony when the
Hughes “Falcon” missile was given to the Museum, Apr. 15, 1958.

Casey, Louis 8., Washington, D.C.: A collection of books on aeronautics.

Cato, Josep L., Turlock, Calif.: Photographs and drawings of aircraft pro-
duced by the L. W. F. Company of College Point, L.I., N.Y., 1917-22, where
he was a designer.

Crvin AERONAUTICS ADMINISTRATION, WasShington, D.C.: A collection of books
on aeronautics.

CLaupy, CarL H. (deceased), Washington, D.C.; 2 boxes of original glass nega-
tives of the photographs taken by him at Fort Myer, Va., during flights there
by Orville Wright in 1908 and 1909; framed photographs; and negatives of
photographs taken at Arlington, Va., showing experiments with kites by Alex-
ander Graham Bell.

CLemons, Mrs. ANNA B., Elmira, N.Y.: A collection of photographs illustrating
aircraft developed by Glenn H. Curtiss.

CraM, Miss Evoise (deceased), Bethesda, Md., and Mrs. MarGarET CRAM SIE-
MEN, Hemet, Calif. (daughters of the late Ralph Cram): Illustrations, clip-
pings, and texts collected by Mr. Cram during his extensive career as an avi-
ation enthusiast and journalist, including many of his own writings.

CRAWFoRD, JAMES J., Strasburg, Va.: A copy of the book “Up,” by Mrs. George
Gray, 1931, describing flights by her husband and herself during the period
1912-16 and later flights by her husband and other famous flyers.

DecKaRD, RIcHARD, Washington, D.C.: A copy of the booklet describing the
Waco-F airplane, and data pertaining to the German V-1, De Havilland
“Moth,” and other aircraft.

Doan, Con. Cart, USAF (Ret.), Greenwich, Conn.: A photograph of the original
members of the Lafayette Escadrille, famous group of American flyers in
World War I, with whom he served.

HAcKETr, WARREN B., Mount Hermon, Calif.: Copy of the book “The Balloon
Section of the American Expeditionary Forces,” 1919.

HaRMEL, Fark, Washington, D.C.: A collection of photographs of members of
the “Caterpillar Club,” composed of those whose lives have been saved by
parachutes; texts pertaining to them and to A. L. Welsh, pioneer pilot of
Wright Brothers’ airplanes, who was killed in an airplane crash at College
Park, Md., 1912.

HILLeR HeLicoprers, Inc. (representative), Washington, D.C.: A 16-mm. mo-
tion-picture film showing types of helicopters.

Hoiitoway, Wi1LiraM §., Honolulu, T.H.: Copy of the book “Aviation in Hawaii,”
by W. P. Yates.

HupBELL, CHARLES H., Cleveland, Ohio: A contemporary 3-view dimensioned
seale drawing of the De Havilland-4 airplane, 1918.

HurcHinson, J. D., Denver, Colo.: A collection of magazines, photographs, and
material pertaining to aircraft and flight operations of the 1920’s and 1930’s
collected during the donor’s service as a military and commercial pilot.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

Lers, Mrs. WALTER L., Turlock, Calif.: Scrapbooks containing photographs and
clippings pertaining to the career of her late husband as a pilot from 1912
until his recent death; including references to his flight instruction of Gen.
William Mitchell in 1917 and his establishing, with F. A. Brossy, of an 8414-
hour nonrefueled duration record in 1931 (loan).

Loneo, Rosert R., Wichita, Kans.: Copies of “The Ford Story,” by William T.
Larkins, and “Operation Grasshopper,” by Dario Politella.

Move. AERONAUTICAL PrEss, Lrp., Watford, England : 23 copies of “Aero Modeller”
magazine.

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: 3-view dimensioned scale draw-
ings of aircraft: Curtiss F8C-1 and F9C, the Wright “Apache,” and the PN-9.

Por, Mrs. Morcan, Washington, D.C.: 4 photographs of the Wright family:
Bishop Milton Wright and Wilber, Orville, and Katherine Wright as children.

Ransom, ArrHur K., Freehold, N.J.: Copy of “The Curtiss Standard JN4-D
Military Tractor Handbook.”

Rowe, Grorrrey, Ontario, Canada: Posters prepared in World War II illustrating
aircraft of that period, and used for training personnel to recognize friend
from foe.

SEMPLE, Mrs. CECELLA, Shirley, L.I., N.Y.: 12 contemporary photographs of the
Wright EX airplane “Vin Fiz’ in which Calbraith Perry Rodgers made the
first transcontinental flight, 1911.

SHort, V. R., Clinton, Conn.: A collection of photographs of helicopters illus-
trating progress in design during the past 50 years.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D.C. (River Basin Surveys, Missouri
Basin Project, through Robert L. Stephenson): A collection of aeronautical
photographs, taken by Nathaniel L. Dewell, pertaining principally to the
airmail service operated by the U.S. Post Office Department during the 1920’s.

SULLIVAN, R. O. D., JR., Washington, D.C.: A collection of photographs illus-
trating the aircraft and operations of the Aeromarine and Pan American air-
lines during the 1920’s, when the donor’s father was one of the pilots with
those organizations.

THorRSEN, ArTHOUR, Encino, Calif.: A copy of the booklet “The Story of Art Smith,”
a pioneer pilot who in 1911 taught himself to fly in a homemade airplane, and
continued in aviation until his death in 1926 while flying the mail.

UNDERWOOD & UNDERWOOD, New York, N.Y.: Photographs of Amelia Harhart
(loan).

UNION TITLE INSURANCE Co., San Diego, Calif.: A collection of photographs, per-
taining mainly to aviation activities in the San Diego area, particularly those
of Glenn Curtiss and his associates, and Charles Lindbergh and the Ryan Co.,
for the period 1911-32.

Unirep Arrcrart Corp., East Hartford, Conn. (through Charles Stewart and
Harvey Lippincott): Texts pertaining to aeronautical history and develop-
ment, including several describing Pratt and Whitney engines.

VERVILLE, ALFRED, Washington, D.C.: A scrapbook of photographs associated
with the lender’s career as an aircraft designer from 1913 to the middle 1930’s,
including many pertaining to Glenn Curtiss (loan).

VILLARD, HEeNRy, Washington, D.C.: Scrapbooks and contemporary pamphlets
pertaining to airships, airplanes, and air meets from the early 1900’s to the
latter 1920’s, most of the material related to the lender’s personal association
with air history.

WHEELER, Mrs. HupparD, Washington, D.C.: Three photographs of the “Spirit
of St. Louis” made during Lindbergh’s landing at the Virgin Islands, January
31, 1928.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

WILLIAMS, Mas. Arrorp (deceased), Elizabeth City, N.C.: A 3-view dimensioned
scale drawing of the Grumman “Gulfhawk-II” airplane, which he flew during
the period 1986-48 and presented to the Museum.

Youncer, Dr. JoHN E., University Park, Md.: Texts pertaining to pressurization
of airplane cabins, particularly of the Lockheed XC-35, which was the subject
for the Robert J. Collier Trophy award for 1937. The donor was acclaimed
for his important developments in this field.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National Aeronautical collections received and re-
corded during the fiscal year 1958 total 193 specimens in 52 separate

accessions from 46 sources.
Those from Government departments are entered as transfers;

others were received as gifts except as noted.

AEROPRODUCTS OPERATIONS, ALLISON Division, GENERAL Motors Corp., Dayton,
Ohio: An airplane propeller, 6-bladed, dual rotating, as used on the Allison
T-40 turboprop-engined “Tradewind” Convair flying boat, and “Skyshark”
Douglas Navy fighter of 1955. (N.A.M. 966.)

AIR Forcr, DEPARTMENT OF THE, AIR Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air
Base, Ohio: A series of 18 dioramas, illustrating the history of the U.S. Air
Force and associated units from 1907 to 1957 (loan). (N.A.M. 957.) PrErR-
SONNEL AND TRAINING RESEARCH CENTER, AIR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
CoMMAND, Randolph Air Force Base, Tex.: A complete “line” of equipment
used by the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II for the psychological
testing of flight personnel to determine mental reaction, muscular control, co-
ordination, and other factors associated with the operation of aircraft.
(N.A.M. 980.)

ALL-WOMAN TRANSCONTINENTAL AIR RACE, INc., Mrs. Kay Brick, VICE CHAIR-
MAN, Norwoop, N.J.: Four display panels, with photographs of the winners
of this annual race, popularly known as “The Powder Puff Derby,” for the
years 1947-1957. (N.A.M. 995.)

BARGER, CADET Mag. Rosert M., C.A.P., Peoria, Il].: The Performance Data
plate from the Douglas C-124 Globemaster which was the first U.S. Air
Force plane to fly over the South Pole. The donor was aboard on this air-
drop mission, October 26, 1956. (N.A.M. 960.)

Brecu, Mrs. OtivE ANN, Wichita, Kans.: A sculptured portrait in bronze of
the late Walter Beech, 1891-1950, cofounder of Beech Aircraft Corp., made
from life, by Bruce Moore; and a bronze medal, sculptured by Carl Paul
Jennewein, commemorating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Beech Air-
craft Corp. (N.A.M. 956.)

BrecH AIRcRAFT Corp., Wichita, Kans.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the
Beechcraft-17, stagger-wing 5-place cabin biplane of 1932. (N.A.M. 974.)

Beti AIRCRAFT CorP., Buffalo, N. Y.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Bell
X-1 first supersonic airplane, 1947, illustrating the award for 1947 of the
Robert J. Collier Trophy. (N.A.M. 952.) <A scale model, 1:32 size, of
the Bell “Rascal” G.A.M.-63, an air-to-surface guided missile in current use
by the U.S. Air Force. (N.A.M. 975.)

Boccess, R., Alexandria, Va.: Breeches and puttees of the donor’s U.S. Army
officer’s type uniform worn during World War I, and a 37-mm. cartridge
used with a German aircraft gun of that war. (N.A.M. 981.)
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 8

Statue of Gen. William Mitchell, unveiled December 17, 1957.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

Bucxs Country Sorentiric Society, Morrisville, Pa. (through H. L. Robinson,
Pres.) : A Bristol “Hercules” 14-cylinder, sleeve-valve, 2-row radial, air-cooled
aircraft engine, of 1,600 hp., made about 1941 by the Bristol Aeroplane Co.
of England. (N.A.M. 949.)

Cressna ArrorArr Co., Wichita, Kans.: Four scale models, 1:36 size, of aircraft
made by the donor: The ‘‘Airmaster” 4-place high-wing single-engine mono-
plane of 1938; the “310” 5-place low-wing twin-engined monoplane of 1954; the
YH-41 2-place helicopter of 1954; and the “172” 4-place high-wing single-
engined monoplane of 1955. (N.A.M. 996.)

CLEVELAND, OHIO, Diviston or ArRPorRTs (through Claude King, Commissioner
of Airports): An airport light, of the large ground-flooding type, used at
Cleveland Airport in the early 1920’s when that city became a stop on the
first transcontinental air mail and passenger route. (N.A.M. 961.)

Cuing, Capt. JosePH, Coronado, Calif.: A U.S. naval aviator’s uniform coat,
worn by the donor in Worid War I. He was a member of the U.S. Navy
First Aeronautic Detachment, which was the first American offensive unit
to arrive in France, landing there June 7, 1917, and flying the first American
patrol, from Le Croisic, November 13, 1917. (N.A.M. 979.)

Convair, A DIVISION OF GENERAL DyNAMiIcs CorP., San Diego, Calif.: A scale
model, 1: 16 size, of the F-102A “Delta Dagger” supersonic jet-powered inter-
ceptor, in current use by the U.S. Air Force. (N.A.M. 948.) Five scale
models, 1:16 and 1:48 size, of aircraft prominent in Convair history: The
Consolidated PT-1 “Trusty,” standard Army Air Corps trainer of 1924; the
Vultee SNV “Valiant” Navy and Army Air Force basic trainer of 1939; the
Consolidated PBY-5 “Catalina’’ Navy patrol plane of World War II; the
Consolidated B-24 “Liberator” Army Air Force bomber of World War II;
and the Convair B-58 “Hustler” supersonic 4-jet delta-winged bomber which
is one of the most recent additions to the U.S. Air Force. (N.A.M. 983.)

CURTISS-WRIGHT CorpP., Wood-Ridge, N.J.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the
Curtiss “Triad” of 1911, one of the earliest water-borne aircraft. This model
was made with precise detail by Frederick Howard of Denver, Colo. The
Department of the Navy, through Alfred Verville and A, O. Van Wyen, assisted
with research and helpful contacts. It is presented to the Museum in tribute
to Glenn H. Curtiss as founder of one of the units from which the donor
corporation was formed. (N.A.M. 993.)

Dovueias AIRCRAFT Co., INc., Santa Monica, Calif.: A world globe, on which is
marked the route of the first flight around the world and to which are attached
scale models of the Douglas U.S. Army Air Service airplanes which accom-
plished that flight in 1924. This exhibit illustrates the award for that year
of the Robert J. Collier Trophy. (N.A.M. 954.) A scale model, 1:72 size, of
the Douglas DC-8 Jetliner, 590-mile-per-hour transport, which is scheduled to
enter service on commercial airlines in 1959, and scale models of four Douglas-
made guided missiles: the Nike-Ajax, 20-foot-long surface-to-air weapon for
defense against enemy aircraft; the Nike-Hercules which is heavier and more
than twice the diameter of the Ajax, and equipped to carry a nuclear warhead
for similar defense; the Sparrow which was developed by the Navy and Sperry
Gyroscope Co., and made by Douglas under license for use in air-to-air combat;
and the Honest John designed for Army tactical use to provide close fire support
for ground operations, surface-to-surface. (N.A.M. 997.)

Ecker, HerMAN A., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: Two aircraft engines, a Roberts
6-cylinder vertical in-line 2-cycle water-cooled engine, developing 75 hp.
at 1100 r. p. m.; used by the donor in his flying boat of 1912; and a Velie

492520—59——10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

M-5 5-cylinder radial air-cooled engine of 55 hp., produced in 1928 for light
airplanes. (N.A.M. 955.) :

Evans, RicHaArD, Lathrop, Mo.: Aviation goggles without lenses, reported to
have belonged to Miss Amelia Harhart, 1929. (N.A.M. 967.)

FLEMING, Mrs. MARGARET Eppy, La Jolla, Calif.: A collection of kites and related
material used by William A. Eddy of Bayonne, N.J., who was outstanding
in the design, construction and use of kites for aerial photography, meteoro-
logical research, military signaling and other practical purposes during the
latter period of the nineteenth century. He was assisted in his experiments
by a grant from the Hodgkins Fund of the Smithsonian Institution. (N.A.M.
982.)

Gatry, Mrs. Harorp, Suva, Fiji: A collection of notebooks, papers, and other
records used and acquired by Harold Gatty during his flight around the
world with Wiley Post in the Lockheed Vega airplane “Winnie Mae,” June
23-July 1, 1931, when Mr. Gatty was navigator. (N.A.M. 973.)

GopparpD, Mrs. Estuer, Worcester, Mass.: A portrait of the late Dr. Robert H.
Goddard, 1882-1945, ‘Father of Rocketry,” painted in oils by Mrs. Emily
Burling Waite Manchester. (N.A.M. 970.)

HAMILTON, Epwarp G., Old Westbury, L.I., N.Y.: The donor’s original Flight
Log for the years 1922-1926, including the period in 1924 when he was test
flying Stout Air Pullman planes, in 1925 when he was pilot for the inaugural
run of the Ford Airlines, and in 1926 when he flew the first contract airmail
between Detroit, Cleveland, and Chicago. (N.A.M. 958.)

Herrick, Scotr H., AND CORNELL, Mrs. SUZANNE HERRICK, New York, N.Y.:
The Herrick “Vertoplane”’ of 1937, and devices associated with the aero-
nautical experiments of the late Girard P. Herrick. This aircraft is an early
example of the types generally classed as convertoplanes which combine
the flight performance of airplanes with the vertical-lift, sustentation, and
descent characteristics of rotorcraft. In July 1937 this piloted aircraft ac-
complished what is believed to be the first midair conversion from fixed-wing
to rotary-wing flight. ‘The associated devices received with this aircraft
include wind-tunnel models, control mechanisms, test models of rotors, and
instruments. The donors are the children of Mr. Herrick. The assistance of
Mrs. G. P. Herrick, Ralph McLarren, and John Glennon in obtaining this
material is gratefully acknowledged. (N.A.M. 994.)

HueHeEs AircrRAFT Co., Culver City, Calif.: A “Falcon” GAR-1 guided missile,
mounted on a display panel having transparency illustrations of air-combat
methods, and a sound recording describing this missile, which is in current
use by U. S. Air Force interceptor planes, for air-to-air combat. The formal
presentation of this display was by Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona,
the Missile Manufacturing Division of the donor being in that State.
(N.A.M. 984.)

KAaAuir, Orro, New York, N.Y.: Six glider models made by Robert Kronfeld,
famous Austrian designer and pilot of high-performance sailplanes. He was
first to make a continuous glide for 100 kilometers, first to soar across the
Alps, and made notable intercity glides. These beautifully made models,
given to the donor who was a close friend, include the “Wien,” in which
Kronfeld established world records for motorless flight of 93.15 miles distance
and 7.084 feet altitude in 1929. He was killed while test piloting an English
military airplane, 1948. (N.A.M. 989.)

Lear, Inc., Grand Rapids, Mich.: The Lear F-5 Electropilot equipment, devel-
oped by the donors to provide automatic flight control for high-performance
aircraft. Subject of the Robert J. Collier Trophy Award for 1949. (N.A.M.
950.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

LocKHEED ArRcRAFT Corp., Burbank, Calif. (through Washington, D.C., repre-
sentative) : Secale models, 1:48 size, of a Lockheed Q-5 drone, which is an
unmanned radio-guided aircraft in current use by the U.S. Air Force as a
supersonie missile target; and a Lockheed X-7 research vehicle used as a
flying test bed for ramjet engines. (N.A.M. 978.)

Martin Co., THE, Baltimore, Md.: Two scale models of Martin pilotless air-
eraft in current use: The Air Force “Matador” TM-61B guided missile,
and the Navy “Vanguard” earth satellite vehicle. (N.A.M. 977.)

McCautry, Ernest G., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: Two 2-bladed metal propellers
for airplanes; production examples invented by the donor. One is of solid
steel and adjustable pitch with an airfoil of thin section to reduce weight
and of concave-convex shape to improve rigidity. Following a test by the
Army Air Corps in 1933 when this make of propeller improved the takeoff,
climb, and speed of a training plane, it was adopted by both the Army and
Navy, for use with trainers, and continued in use for 10 years. The other
propeller received, with the trade name MET-L-PROP, was developed in 1947
for use with light airplanes. It is of aluminum alloy, fixed pitch, forged
in one piece including the hub section. (N.A.M. 990.)

NaFE, Dr. JOHN ELLIOTT, Columbia University, Palisades, N. Y.: The cap and
gown worn by the late Robert Hutchings Goddard, “Father of Rocketry,”
when receiving his doctorate of physics at Clark University, 1912 (loan).
(N.A.M. 998.)

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FoR AERONAUTICS, Langley Field, Va.: A Nike-
Cajun sounding rocket, the N.A.C.A. jet-supported platform which utilizes
a teetering rotor, the N.A.C.A. jet-supported platform which utilizes a jet
of compressed air, and an N.A.C.A. wing flow balance. (N.A.M. 963.)

NAVY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: An enlarged photograph of
a De Havilland-4B airplane, one of the U.S. Air Force Service types flown
by Brig. Gen. William Mitchell in 1921. Enlargement made from an Air
Force negative for exhibition with General Mitchell’s statue. (N.A.M.
968). A full-size exterior duplicate of the “Vanguard” rocket-powered satel-
lite vehicle which on March 17, 1958, carried America’s second satellite into
orbit around the earth. This achievement by the U.S. Navy, with the vehicle
manufactured by The Martin Company, followed about six weeks after the
U.S. Army’s “Jupiter” had carried America’s first satellite, the “Explorer,”
into orbit, and over 5 months after Russia had made the initial success.
This “Vanguard” was formally received for the National Air Museum by Dr.
Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, from Rear Adm.
Rawson Bennett, Chief of Naval Research. The ceremony was held in the
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building of the U.S. National Museum
where the top of the “Vanguard,” exhibited in launching position, reaches
72 feet in height. Near the floor beside the vehicle is shown a reproduction
of the 6-inch-diameter, 314-pound satellite which has been continuously
circling the earth since launched, and will probably continue to orbit for years
tocome. (N.A.M. 992.)

NEVIN, Rosert §., Denver, Colo.: A 1:16-size scale model of the Wright Com-
pany type “H” airplane of 1915; a 2-place, twin-pusher biplane, developed
as a weight carrier with a useful load of 1,000 pounds and speed of 56 mph.
Model constructed by Mr. Nevin (purchase). (N.A.M. 947.)

NEwsurRGH Free AcapeMy, Newburgh, N.Y.: A LeRhone rotary engine, air
cooled; a type used in World War I. Its nine cylinders radiate from the
central crankcase and revolve like the spokes of a wheel. (N.A.M. 987.)
1388 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

PARKER, WILLIAM D., Bartlesville, Okla.: An aircraft altimeter, of the Paulin
type, with level-flight indicator; used about 1930. (N.A.M. 953.)

PEASE, WARD, Winnetka, Ill.: A model airplane of the flying-stick, twin-pusher
rubberband-powered canard-monoplane type, made and flown by the donor in
1916. A sport competition of the Illinois Model Aero Club was won by this
model on May 24, 1916, when its longest flight was 4.423 feet. (N.A.M. 972.)

PFEIFFER, Rev. RoBerT F., Richmond, Ind.: A communion service made from
aircraft parts by American “GI’s” stationed at the First Strategic Air
Depot, Honington, England, in 1943. All material used had been in combat.
The set consists of 200 cups of .50-caliber machinegun shells and silver plated ;
bread plates made from the tops of B-17 pistons; a cross formed from parts
of a damaged B-17; and candlesticks made from antiaircraft shells. The
donor was the Chaplain at that Depot. (N.A.M. 988.)

Posr OFFICE DEPARTMENT, Washington, D.C.: The Air Mail Flyers’ Medal of
Honor, authorized by Congress February 14, 1931, for presentation by the
President of the United States to pilots who perform distinguished service in
connection with airmail operations. Ten pilots have received it. The placing
of this medal in the National Aeronautical collections was one of the cere-
monies of the fortieth anniversary of the first continuously scheduled public
service airmail route, established May 15, 1918, between Washington, Phila-
delphia, and New York. At the anniversary ceremony, Dr. Leonard Car-
michael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, received the medal for
the Museum from Deputy Postmaster General Edson G. Sessions. (N.A.M.
991.)

RICKENBACKER, Capt. Epwarp V., Eastern Air Lines, New York, N.Y.: A Verville-
Sperry ‘Messenger’ airplane of 1920, designed by Alfred Verville, and manu-
factured by the Lawrence Sperry Aircraft Co. by order of Brig. Gen. William
Mitchell who realized that a “motorcycle of the air’ was required for military
liaison services; and a Pitcairn ‘“Mailwing” of 1928, developed by Pitcairn
Aviation, Inc., for their use in operating Contract Air Mail Route No. 19
between New York and Atlanta, later absorbed by Eastern Air Lines. ‘“Mail-
wings” were used also on other airmail routes of the 1920’s and early 1930’s.
This example was Eastern Air Lines’ first airplane, and was obtained in later
years by a group of his employees who presented it to Capt. Rickenbacker as
amarkofesteem. (N.A.M. 959.)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C. (from Department of Arts and
Manufactures, U.S.N.M.): A transparent conical nose section as made for
a Lockheed “Hudson” bomber of 1941, illustrating the use of the acrylic resin
“Plexiglas,” manufactured by Rohm & Haas Co. of Philadelphia. (N.A.M.
986.) (From the library): A seale model, 1:12 size, of an aircraft-control
device originated by James Means of Boston about 1910. (N.A.M. 951.)

STEPHENSON, GEORGE H. (deceased), Philadelphia, Pa.: A bronze statue of Brig.
Gen. William Mitchell standing in his World War I uniform; sculptured 14%
times natural size by Bruce Moore. (N.A.M. 969.)

Toppine, Inc., Akron, Ohio (through William Topping, president) : Three scale
models cf guided missiles in current use by U.S. Armed Forces: a Boeing
“Bomare”’ IM-99 Air Force ground-to-air pilotless interceptor; a Martin
Lacrosse Army surface-to-surface demolition weapon; and a Martin “Bull
Pup” Navy air-to-surface weapon, launched by attack planes against major
ship and ground targets. (N.A.M. 976.)

Unirep AIRCRAFT CoRP., PRATT & WHiITNEY ArRcraFr Divisron, East Hartford,
Conn.: A Pratt & Whitney R-2800 Double Wasp aircraft engine, type CB-16,
No. X-88, of 18 cylinders, 2-row radial, air cooled, rated 2,400 hp. at takeoff.

(N.A.M. 971.)
SECRETARY'S REPORT 139

WALDEN, Dr. Henry W., New York, N.Y.: Scale models, 1:16 size, of the Walden—
III and the Walden-IX, early American monoplanes, designed, built, and
flown 1909-i1 by the donor, who also made these models; and a scale model,
1:8 size, of a guided missile, radio-controlled air-to-ground free-drop bomb
invented by himin1915. (N.A.M. 965.)

Weeks, E. D., Des Moines, Iowa: Parts of a Wright Type “G” flying boat,
originally constructed by the Wright Co. of Dayton, Ohio, 1914. Flown and
later modified by Ernest Hall. The parts include struts, wires, braces, and
the seat. (N.A.M. 964.)

WuHitr, Gen. THOMAS D., Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.: A
framed letter from General White to Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, in reference to the use of the “Falcon” guided
missile as “the first operational air-to-air guided missile... an effective deter-
rent to enemy air attack.” (N.A.M. 985.)

YounceEr, Dr. JOHN H., University Park, Md.: The “Spirit of St. Louis’ gold
medal, awarded to Professor Younger by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, June 18, 1941, “for meritorious service in the advancement of
aeronautics ... particularly in the conception, analysis, and supervision of
the development of the fundamental design principles, requirements and
criteria which first assured the success of the pressure-cabin type of high-
altitude airplane.” (N.A.M. 962.)

Respectfully submitted.
Puiuie 8. Horxsins, Director.

Dr. Lrtonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958.

EXHIBITS

A complete animal exhibit is one in which the animals are kept in
secure surroundings that satisfy the requirements of the animal, is
esthetically pleasing to the public, and contributes to an increased
knowledge of the animals and their behavior. This is the goal of the
National Zoological Park.

During the year the collection has been balanced and adjusted.
Progress is bemg made toward exhibiting more North American
fauna, while not neglecting the display of exotic species.

The year’s most important zoological event at the Park and perhaps
in any zoo in the United States was the conception and birth on May 18,
1958, of a snow-leopard kitten. Never before has there been a birth of
this rare and beautiful leopard in the Western Hemisphere, and the
records indicate that only five kindlings are known in the worldwide
history of zoos. So far as can be ascertained, there have been only two
kittens successfully reared. The kitten, a female, was abandoned by its
mother after 24 hours and has been hand-reared by Zoo personnel.
The first six weeks of its life were extremely critical, requiring almost
constant attention. After a great deal of uncertainty and suspense, it
is now apparently healthily established and vigorously growing.

A new program was instituted for training the elephants. A pro-
fessional elephant man, Roger MacDonald, was hired as a keeper, and
he has been teaching the two 10-year-old Indian elephants, Ashoka
and Shanti, and the two little elephants, Nancy, an African, and Dixie,
an Asiatic, to obey commands. The ends of the tusks of Ashoka, the
male Indian, were growing so close together that it was beginning to
be difficult for him to raise his trunk or feed himself. Rather than
saw off the tusks, Mr. MacDonald fashioned a set of braces which are
correcting the defect.

The Siberian crane, Grus leucogeranus, celebrated its 52d birthday
in the Park shortly before the close of the fiscal year. As far as is
known, this constitutes a longevity record for cranes in captivity. The
rare female Mongolian wild horse has also achieved a longevity record
for its species of 32 years.

140
SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

GIFTS

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior
has continued to cooperate in the procurement of desirable species of
North American birds and animals. Outstanding among accessions
this year are a pair of trumpter swans on deposit here. These beauti-
ful North American birds had almost vanished a few years ago, but by
careful management on the part of the Department of the Interior they
have been saved from extinction. These two were collected by Winston
E. Banko in the Red Rock Lakes National Waterfowl Refuge in west-
ern Montana. Other stations of the Fish and Wildlife Service have
sent the Zoo four woodcock, a bald eagle, an osprey, and numerous
species of wild ducks.

Through the Animal and Bird Protection Board of Hobart, Tas-
mania, three Tasmanian devils were obtained. They had not been
shown in this collection for many years.

The Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp, Belgium, sent the Zoo
a fine pair of great black-casqued hornbills. These were formally
presented by Baron Leopold Dhanis of the Belgian Embassy on
January 16, 1958.

Jack Marks, director of the Portland, Oreg., Zoo, in cooperation
with the U.S. Navy, Operation Deepfreeze, brought back a number
of Adelie penguins. Some of them went to the zoos in Portland,
Oreg., San Diego, Calif., and New York, N. Y., and 12 were brought
to the National Zoological Park and Johns Hopkins University.
These birds are being studied by specialists in aspergillosis, the
fungus disease that attacks penguins and other birds. The U.S.
Navy also obtained for the Zoo a group of albatrosses of two species,
Diomedea nigripes and D. immutabilis, but unfortunately the birds
did not survive, the longest that any one lived being three months.

The U.S. Army, 6th Infantry Division, stationed in Berlin, Ger-
many, sent the Zoo a European brown bear that had been given them
as a mascot by the citizens of Berlin on Armed Forces Day, 1957.
The new recruit was so successful in his placement as mascot that
he was soon promoted to private first class. Later he did what many
soldiers have wanted to do—bit the first sergeant. He was imme-
diately demoted to private, and in consequence thereof a short time
later he went AWOL, causing great consternation in the regiment
and in the city of Berlin. Despite his seemingly erratic Army career,
he has been discharged honorably from the United States Army and
is now enjoying his civilian life at the National Zoological Park.
“Teddy” was formally presented by the Honorable Dewey Short,
Assistant Secretary of the Army; representing the West German
Republic was Brig. Gen. Wolf Dietrich Von Steinmetz; and Dr.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Leonard Carmichael accepted for the Smithsonian Institution and
the National Zoological Park. The bear’s cage is appropriately
decorated with the seal of the Sixth Infantry and the seal of Berlin.
The Zoo is fortunate in having among its friends members of the
Armed Forces who, when stationed abroad, are always on the lookout
for rare and interesting animals. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the Navy
Medical Research Unit in Taipei, Taiwan, sent a number of speci-
mens including an eared pangolin, which, although it seemed to be
doing well, lived only four months. Lt. Col. Robert Traub, stationed
in Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, sent a linsang (Prionodon linsang), a
species never before exhibited in this collection, as well as a number
of particularly interesting reptiles. Other animals collected by these
men are included in the following list of gifts of special interest:

Animal Shop, Norfolk, Va., canebrake
rattlesnake, copperhead, water moc-
casin.

Badgley, Eugene, District Heights,
Md., albino weasel.

Cahill, Carl B., Washington, D.C., 3
masked lovebirds.

Child, Mrs. William S., Falls Church,
Va., tovi parakeet.

Dawkins, H. C., Entebbe, Uganda,
black-and-white casqued hornbill.

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md.,
black racer, brown water snake,
common king snake, red-bellied
water snake, 2 rainbow snakes, 3
water moccasins, 2 _ blue-tailed
skinks, brown skink.

duPont, Irénée, Wilmington, Del., 2
Cuban tree boas.

Hafer, F. L., Arlington, Va., collec-
tion of tropical fish.

Hecht Co., through §S. Haken, dis-
play manager, Washington, D.C.,
11 ring-necked doves, 10 fan-tailed
pigeons, peacock, golden pheasant.

Hoogstral, Dr. Harry, U.S. Naval
Medical Research Unit #8, Cairo,
Egypt, 2 hedgehogs, 18 jerboas, 25
gerbils.

Hubbell, Mrs. Robert L., Falls Church,
Va., Mexican double yellow-headed
parrot.

Kilham, Dr. Lawrence, Bethesda, Md.,
2 hand-reared flickers.

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Taipei, Taiwan,
8 Chinese vipers, 10 rat snakes,

racer, pangolin, 3 monkeys, 6 squir-
rels, Formosan masked civet, 6
Formosan cobras, sea snake, 3 Habu
snakes, 3 Russell’s vipers, 6 kraits,
Formosan rat snake, Swinhoe’s
pheasant, 2 quail, Formosan red-
billed pie, 2 Formosan flying squir-
rels, 11 palm vipers, 11 Europholis.

Magens, Dr. Hans, Okinawa, 8 Habu
snakes, 2 Asian moccasins.

McGuire, L. S., Falls Church, Va.,
cockatiel.

National Capital Parks, Great Falls,
Md., copperhead, queen snake, pilot
black snake, water snake, wood
turtle, red-bellied water turtle.

New York Zoological Park, New York,
N.Y., 4 baby king cobras, born in
their collection.

Nye, Alva, McLean, Va., golden eagle.

Owen, Roger L., Mount Rainier, Md.,
red-fronted parrot.

Phelps, C. F., Game and Inland Fish-
eries, Richmond, Va., 3 wild tur-
keys.

Safeway Warehouse, Washington,
D.C., emperor boa, tropical king
snake.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Richmond, Va., Cuban
flamingo.

Thorington, David W., Richmond,
Va., mMargay cat.

Townsend, Dr. W. C., Washington,
D.C., 2 boa constrictors, green tree
boa, rainbow boa.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaya, linsang, twin-barred
tree snake, 2 Pope’s vipers, pit vi-
per, Malayan racer, blue Malayan
coral snake, 2 regal pythons, grass-
green whipsnake, 4 giant geckos, 4
forest lizards, 2 skinks.

Urlass, H. M., Bangkok, Thailand,
leopard.

Welch, Mrs. A. L., Washington, D.C.,
collection of tropical fish.

Williams, Mrs. Fred A., Washington,
D.C., red and blue macaw.

Xanten, William Jr., Washington,
D.C., chicken snake, 2 Florida king
snakes, corn snake, 4 garter snakes,
ribbon snake, 2 Florida water
snakes, green water snake, scarlet
king snake, 4 skinks, eastern dia-
mond-backed rattlesnake, 2 Florida
water terrapins, musk turtle.

PURCHASES

Included among animals acquired from dealers this year were three
species of African sunbirds, a bataleur eagle, a pair of Argus pheas-
ants, a Cape monitor, a large Indian monitor, a young Brazilian tapir,
eight quokkas (Setonix brachyurus) from the Perth (Australia)
Zoological Gardens, a white-headed piping guan, 2 nocturnal curas-
sows, 2 gray hornbills, 2 little black woodpeckers, 2 female red deer,
2 forest falcons, a chimango, and an olingo.

EXCHANGES

Animals were obtained by exchanges made with the following

ZOOS:

Calgary Zoological Park, Calgary, Al-
berta, Swainson’s hawk, 2 Steller’s
jays, 4 evening grosbeaks.

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio,
eland, 2 jaguars, a Queen of Ba-
varia conure.

Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Fla., 2
vulturine guineafowl, 2 tree ducks,
ocellated turkey.

Edmonton Zoological Society, Edmon-

ton, Alberta, 4 snowy owls, 2 wol-
verines.

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., western
rattlesnakes, copperheads, and oth-
er reptiles.

San Diego Zoological Society, San
Diego, Calif., Uta lizards.

Woodland Park Zoo, Seattle, Wash.,
2 band-tailed pigeons, 2 magpies, 2
Steller’s jays.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

The snow leopard, previously referred to, is the outstanding birth
of the year. A gibbon hybrid, offspring of another hybrid, was born
on January 6, 1958, and is being raised at home by Keeper Herbert R.
Stroman. Vicky Jean, the black-faced chimpanzee born on June 20,
1957, has become one of the Zoo’s most popular exhibits. She now
spends most of each day in her cage but is still taken home at night
by Bernard Gallagher, the keeper who raised her.

Because of their curious life history, the hatching of Surinam toads
in captivity is always of interest. One of the Zoo’s females laid eggs,
the male carefully embedded them in her back, and 30 little toads
eventually hatched.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

A new incubator and brooding pens have been installed in the bird
house. Intensive efforts are being made to incubate eggs laid at the
Zoo.

One of the signs that an animal is doing well in captivity is its
ability to reproduce its kind and, as the following list shows, the num-
ber of mammals, birds, and reptiles born in the National Zoological
Park during the year is gratifying:

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
A‘comys cahirinus.- 22-2222. 52st Egyptian spiny mouse___-_------ 5
Ammotragus lervia_ 224) J. 22 ees Agudad 520i ae Je Us) os eee 4
Anoa depressicornis___.------------- Anioaw. 9233.2 bs oe 1
Aslan naludinosuss 228 ane oe eee Wiater'icivetss te =i ats eae 1

Bibosqaurie £2 a2 Ui Orr 2 he ete Gaurs_ 2S th ee ee
ee ie Highland cattle___________- 2
Set On ere orem Gan a ena ae British, Park. cattle: =... 225-93 2e ee
Cebus space Soa as Se eo eee Capuehin monkey _ = 222222 s2 422" 1
Cercopithecus'cephus-2 22 2 oh ges 42 A Mustached guenon____-_______-- 1
Cercopithecus neglectus__._..._-------- DeBrazza’s guenon |= = -— 2 -aveLe 1
Cervus canadensie__2_ == ai. 22 ‘American’ elk 2i2 4. iscLe eee 1
Gerpustelanhiuss cos eee eee Red deerc.4.._.2- =e 1
Census nippona totes aoe eee Sika‘ deer. 22. ones Ieee 2
Choloepus didactylus 2.22.22 = 222-2 Two-toed sloth:.2=.£.5. 2 +e2eeae a
porate Oy ee fallow deer... {22..2.29242 1
Teil re tgiet ks Ca er nate Col White fallow deer... - -2=- 22-24 274
Equus burchelli boehmi___..---------- Grant's zebra.c. os ee i
el esiCOTCOLON: fos et eee tne Mela Pumaens Ce Soe 2 ae eee 3
Meesimardusian © es td eee ee Black leopard: 222... 2.222 ee 2
CUISHLNCTG eR ote ce Oe tera e ene © sete Snow: leopard: = 2222-2 Sse 2
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus X H. Hybrid gibbon_______.__-_------ 1

lar.
Hypsiprymnodon moschatus__._------ Rat kangaroo.. =... 225 ee 2
Hystrixgaleata stk Pe AMR Aes African porcupine... 2-222 -5ee— 2
daculis Jaculis! le oP IR Jerboa 2322. Suu oe eee 4
Lama glamas 29a Do TAs oe lama oes Lo eee 5
TGIMG: DACOR Ls olla SUG Oe EES 8 Alpaca 3.2/5 (0), 18) ADA eee 1
Macropus giganteus. 5252... boo Great gray kangaroo___---------- 1
Macaca :sinicaut se 8 oe 212 hes hn ee aes Bonnet ‘macaques. <2 ..5- 22823 1
Macaca syluanus: =. <2: soo sees e nk Barbary, apes... 225255 2
INGSUG MOntchs ons oS ele Coatimundi oi 2 23.3205 eee 4
Odocoilenus'virgenianus. = 9 2 fee Virginia deer: 222022 3 oe 1
Taurotragusionye sist FO ACT bse ae Blandsit 2 OF oul 2! eee 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden- Hybrid bear (2d generation) -_-_-_-- 2
dor ffi.
Ussusihornibilie: 0 Sess Wee oe 2 Grizzly, bear. <- +...» 22 eee 2
BIRDS

Branta canadensigs2 ee et et Canada roose. 2.22 25). eee 4
Columba linia 265. 32 A I As Homing pigeoni! 2.222 2222 eaeee 5
Cyonus cpgrinest. 25. 2 lee ee Whooping swan: -2.Ui 12 :64_ehees 2

Dendronessa galericulata.....-.------ Mandarin duck... 55-0-4.! =-Uiee® 18
SECRETARY’S REPORT 145

BIRDS—Continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Gallusigallusis22- soe teen eae ee Redtiunglefowlezessseeesseee es] 5
Melopsititacus undulatus_.------------ Grass, parakeets 3 e286 2c cece e5e 12
Minite: OTYZWOTE soe oe oe ae ae Java fin@he 2 2.0.3 oo a eeeien eran oes 5
avo Cristaluss so eee aes a Sasa wee Peafowluire Cee eee ee enerer 4

REPTILES
Ancistrodon contortriz....--...------ Copperhesde ees soe low ee 13
Chamaeleon bitaentatus hoehneli__----- Atriean‘chameleoni.— oo. soso ce 14
Chetjdralserpentina..- 22526. toc snapping tures eo e222 e20C 5 Sees 8
Chrysemya Mica soo teaee Paintediturties oF 2a coos. 20
Bpzcrates anguitfer sos Sete soc oel Cubanitree boas sce eee oe 3
Bumeces fascvatus. 80> oe Bluc-tailedtekinko fe o82 cool 4
Mabuya multifasciata.__....-.-------- SRAM Wits sh i ke 8
Watricseptemvilttata 2 222s QOneentsnake@sc see oe eee 6
PAO DOs oe SPSL Le tke es SULA LOAGS EJ we 30
Pseudemys scripia ic te eee Det Red-lined turtles evs eae oe 53
isceloporus undulatus. = 22-22 Stak Pineuliz ard eee eee ne 9
Perrapene CATOUNG--2 = ae eee Box turiless ses ee eee ee 8
FISH

Tanichthys albonubes._-2-.--------.- White Cloud Mountain fish_____-_- 5

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,411. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.
A determined effort was made this year to accept as gifts, purchases,
or exchanges only those animals that fit into the long-range exhibition
plans of the National Zoological Park.

The collection has fewer individuals listed this year because many
species were felt to have an excessive number of individuals and have
been adjusted to a more reasonable number in relation to the over-all
collection, thus providing a more balanced exhibition. Several minor
species which are best displayed in large numbers do not have an
individual count, merely being listed as ‘‘many.”’

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Orders Families | Species or |Individuals
subspecies

Mammalsste. = sab 5. So ee 13 50 214 634
Bind swemeres as seen See ee ee 20 67 304 889
RG pies Mee: 2 SB 25 ee one 4 23 155 555
/ Moai lou oy Se 2 ial 23 124
Widhiee sete we ee Ses Se 5 11 23 75
Arthropods= 26 oe eee sete 4 5 5 39
MOMUSKS! 229) 28 Aue aoe ee 1 1 1 Many

146

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1958

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Scientific name Common name Number

Tachyglossidae:

Tachyglossus aculeatus.__..-------- Echidna, or spiny anteater__.____- 1

MARSUPIALIA

Didelphiidae:

Didelphasi marsupials viginiand.. 1 OPOSSUM = 24-08 eee 1
Dasyuridae:

Sarcophtlus harristt_ 2... pp Pasmanian devil 2 225 soe 3
Phalangeridae:

TP ricnosurus VU peCuld 222-22 =a Vulpine oposstm=. 22224) 2 52) 1

Petaunus) norjolcenstae . = ss Lesser flying phalanger___._______ 3
Phascolomidae:

WAStonhinUsualyronsa oo]. ee Hairy-nosed wombat__...__..___- 2

Woombavus hinsuius 2 oe ee eee Mainland wombat___..--..------ 1
Macropodidae:

WEGCTONUS Ai US eee Red/Kangaro0=22-=2 22-2 ee eee il

Macropus qiganieus. =~ = 5. == Gray kangaroo... 222. eo eee 2

Hypsiprymnodon moschatus - - ~~ ---- Ratgkanearoo:) 2222s oe. ee 8

INSECTIVORA

Hrinaceidae:

ETAT OCCUSSCULODUCUS C= = 2a eee ee European hedgehog___.-_-_-_-_-- 1
Soricidae:

Blarina-Drevicaudd= sa. 226 2e =e ase Short-tailed shrew___.__----_-__- 1

PRIMATES

Lemuridae:

emiursmong0es se = eee ee ee Mongooz.lemur. 2 oe ee eee 1
Lorisidae:

Nycticebus\educang-iSetOiis outs). Slow: loriss 32220 _ D992. SUUL 30 ams 2

Galago crassicaudatus_ 22 season)" 22. Thick-tailed galago._....-.------ 4

Galagovsencgalensig= eas ase eee Bushbaby or night-ape________-_- 2
Cebidae:

AGUS UTI CLUS ame ee Night-monkey =s-~=22=2"=====" 5

Cacajao rubicuniuss = 522 a te to 8 Redsuakarl 2 - 225.2 eee 1

Cebus migrivitiatusien'. 2-2-2 2 be Brown capuchin monkey--_-___-_- 3

CebusGlotironsece same White-throated capuchin.________ 3

SA2INE it BCLUN CUR ee ea ee Squirreli monkey=2--- 22222 ee 5

Atelesifuscicepss00UStus = =o = = seo Colombian black spider monkey___ 2

Aleles geoffroyt geoffroyt or griscesens_ Spider monkey_----_-_---_--_-_-- 2

Ateles geoffroyit vellerosus___-------- Spiderimonkey=2=2=+ 222222222228 2

Lagothriz pygmaca.__-22i-_-_=-_-.-= Woolly monkey o22225s2s2=2e2 2
Callithricidae:

Leontoceous Tosaliga. = anes Golden lion tamarin_-__-.__-_--- 1

AQUIRUS NLGTICOLLIS a eee ene Black-and-red tamarin___..-___-_- 4
Cercopithecidae:

Whacaca Sn1CG 2 2. Se ee Toque or bonnet monkey___-_---- 3

Macaca memesining== 2 eee Pig-tailed monkey =-225_- === 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

MAMMALS—Continued

PRIMATES—continued

Scientific name
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Macaca philippinensis___----------
Miacacasmulattasss2.5. Soe poe 20%
Macacaslastotis22 22 ie Wein ak woe
Macacarcyclopiss uu 08 29s Haseomny y
Macacatspectosa 22 N08 (esr SIVHIEE
Macacarsylwanuses-2— = 200 Devote
Macaca-mauruss 22224 2S.
Allenopithecus nigroviridis_._.------
Cercocebus albijenae 20) £2 28 toneye _
Cercocebus. aterrimiusus suns) Su Bk
Cercocebus aterrimus opdenboschit_ _ -
Cercocebus galeritus agilis._._.___--
Cercocebus galeritus chrysogaster ___ --
Cercocebus torquatus torquatus__.__--
Cercocebus fuliginosus___-_-----_--
Mandrillus-sphing2. 255. 2s ve
Paprocomatusas Nol) Pe Sie rue
I2aBIO CUMOCEDUGUUS. J as5 == oe
Papio hamadryas. -22 1222222522
Theropuhecus gelada-- 22 J
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus__-
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus__ -_--
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C. a.
pygerythrus.
Cercopithecus cephus vias = titties
Cercopithecus Q1ang. 22-2522 2= ee
Cercopithecus diana roloway_-------
Cercopithecus UV hoestt preussi____-- ~~
Cercopithecus neglectus__.-_-_-_----
Cercopithecus nictitans.____.-..----
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista.---
Presbytis-phayret... J UCne_ 2a noose
Pongidae:
‘Hylobates-hoolock 2 Seely Pero
EA LODGECS UCT as one A
iglobatesymoloch. 222222222
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus_--
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus X
Glan:
Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus_______--
Pongo pygmaeus abelit_..-_____-__-

Common name

Philippine macaquést “wees el
Rhesus monkey... 22 eas
Chinese macaque... 25
Formosan. monkey 2! 2. 2s. lel
Red-faced macaque.___-_-______-
Barbary ape@-ss i SUES IY
Moor macaque suit Seas) ae
Allen’s;monkey 222.2202 thes
Gray-cheeked mangabey__-._____-
Black-crested mangabey_________.
Crested-mangabey_..__..-.L 2222.
Agilec«mangabey.20 Weick Bute ay
Golden-bellied mangabey________-
Red-crowned mangabey--_-_-__--_--
Sooty mangabey__________- Bets
Mandrill bs 5 52 i arts Sua Ga

Hamadryas baboon_.-___-___-_--
Gelada baboont= 22.2 2.2. aoe
Vervet-cuenons 2-4 ous er eee
Green-guenon.. SU 2s hia
Hybrid, green guenon X _ vervet
guenon.
Moustached monkey__.__--_-_-_--
Diana monkey= --2-2. - eos
Roloway: monkey <:t00s2 U5 Aidenee
Preussi’s: guenon=_.2. <4. 2.5 22884
DeBrazza’s guenon...--. 222 22-2
White-nosed guenon___________--
Lesser white-nosed guenon_______-
Spectacled langurJ_--_ 2.2.2 - 222

Hoolock +2222. 5S U3 ae
White-handed gibbon__________-_-
Wau-waw gibbon. .._. __ 2223 00022
Hybrid -gibbon.... =f. 08o3 oa.
Ey brid gibbon. 222.225.2822 22 -

HPOTRISULI EUS Meno arte ea Bs ihe Chimpanzee: -..-.=. ew
Gorilla-gortlia. tule. booi-n ys Gorillas oo ee See aoe
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Sylvilagusjfloridanus 22 2 32-2 ee Cottontalirabbit=ae=s=22522. 25
Oryctolagus cuniculusi 2S. - 2-2 Domestic or European rabbit- ___-

147

NOW KR REN RK RE PNK REP NWHEH NON ORKR We We

Be Oe eR

aa aor

nN Re bh
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

MAMMALS—Continued
RODENTIA
Scientific name Common name

Sciuridae:

Sciurus carolinensis. 22222-44220 22 Gray squirrel, albino_________-

SCtirus Nigeren. 2 Se eae eee Fox squirrel. . - sata tee ee

Ratuiaimndicae ] 6 ste ee eee Giant Indian squirrel________-

Callosciurus erythraeus_....-------- Formosan tree squirrel ___-___-

Callosciurus caniceps_ 2. = 2. ee Asiatic forest squirrel. ______--

Marmota mona 2. 2. 3.4242 = san Ground-hog.__... 5 e.25=-428

Cynomys ludovicianus__---.------- Prairie-dog. 2-2-2522 c ieee ee

Tamas siriatus.) ese ase ees Eastern chipmunk, albino-__-__-

Petaurista Qrandise2ss2 22 ee ee Formosan flying squirrel_______

Glaucomys volans volans__.--------- Eastern flying squirrel_-______-
Cricetidae:

Nyctomys sumichrastt.........-.-- Vesper Tat: ot eases

WWMesocricetusiaunatus == see ee Hamster ..5 2 jo 32st Se ee

Meriones unguiculatus___-.-------- Mongolian gerbil... ..2. 2-2-4
Muridae:

Acomys caherinus. 2.2252) Egyptian spiny mouse__-_____-

Phlocomys cumingit 22-2 be eenk Slender-tailed cloud rat______-
Gliridae:

Graphiurus MUrinus_ Ue = 22 aoe African dormouse__.-.__------
Dipodidae:

GCULUS FOCUS See oe eee ae Jerboa 625 -c2 oti. < 2 eee

Allactaga tetradactyla__._..._...----- Four-toed jerboa......-.-----
Hystricidae:

Aconthion brachyuras 2-0-2222 e- Malay porcupine_-___.__-_---

ET ay strtse GaleGha ie ) hae oor sfl es ee African porcupine... .-—2=-s0ue
Erethizontidae:

Coendou prehensilis__......------- Prehensile-tailed porcupine - - --
Caviidae:

Catiaporcellus 2 322 cena Jeter Guinea-pig—. 3. 6s52..4 2 lees
Dasyproctidae:

Cuntculus paca: eee ee ee Pacaeiis 53 542 ties Se

Dasyprocia: punctate. 22225252225, | Speckled agouti. - =. 25-22 42550
Chinchillidae:

agidtum Uiscaccid a2 = a ee Peruvian viscaccia______-__----

Chinchilla chinchilla_........-=.--- Chinchilla so. 22 2 342 See
Capromyidae:

Myocastor coypus. 8 2 fda Seetek Coypue 355-2 bee eee

EDENTATA

Myrmecophagidae:

Myrmecophaga tridactyla.__.___..._-- Giant anteaters J... 22 =45-02e=
Brady podidae:

Choloepus didactylus_.....--------- Two-toedsloth...-___-..82..-2
Dasypodidae:

Dasypus novemcinctus.------------ Nine-banded armadillo__-__---_-

i)
Oo ROOT et et

iS)

bo om bo
SECRETARY’S REPORT

149

MAMMALS—Continued
CARNIVORA
Scientific name Common name Number
Canidae:
Canis: antarclicusis= = ao see Soe Dingorss cers ose sr Cars acre ee ee 1
Canisilapusmusiiuss=- 282 2a qimber wolts 22). see eee 4
Canisnigenrujusiscss. sees eS Pvecivelitree 2 geen Nak eee 1
rel este U ee ee Ae re ne TREC Oxee serene Sew uth | Sees 2
Wall pespiiuiass © hate see cey Se tie Blabinumy fox sess 3 tino eae: 3
EN VECUSHZET GEN mare ae eye na RN Hennec forte. eee ee oi eae 2
Urocyon cinereoargenteus___._------ LE oN (op. lla Raa ede a Beate Nl 1
Nyctereutes procyonoides___.___._-~- Raccoonrdog:4 3 teen glue oe ak 6
IPEOLRLOS VENQLICUS= =2 = 2S BuUshrdop cerca kent ee ee aire 2
MEVCAOMN DICIUS Hoe eo © ah RW tat Meee African, or Cape, hunting dog_-__-_- 2
Oipeyon megaiolisss 3 2 Se as Bis-eared fox et 2s 4
Ursidae:
UnemanclosiOnivGlusen eens == Sane ee Spectacled bears 2.200 1
SELEMERCLOS LRGUCLONUS === = ee Himalayan black bears 22-2 2" 2
Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus - - — _ - Japanese black bear =_- 2-22 2202 1
Selenarctos thibetanus ussurtcus___- ~~ Koreanvblack bears) 24 220i 2eles 2
ELORCLOSHAMENTCONUS sae ne eee American black bear__.._.______- 2
Wi S1iS4S peo see ae eee ere Lee) Alaskan brown bear_......-_--_-- 1
Wrsrsvanclose = eae ener ee ese European brown bear____-______- 4
Ursus arctos occidentalis_____..----- Iranian brown bears222202 2222.22 2
LER AS WEY a aie eee leet ee eee pe MAA al Alaskan Peninsula bear__.________ 2
WSUSURONTIUIUTS 2 eee sch ee eee ee Grizzly Weare. seen te a. 2
Wreiaestienstan seme tee Sitka brown bears*=2o8 3. 526 euew 2
Thalorectos-maritimius:— = 22228 20 JL) Polartbear-= sot ates nest ree? 1
Thalarcios marittmus X Ursus mid- Hybrid bear_____..-.___________- 4
dendor ffi.
Helarctos malayanus___.-_.-------- Malay sunt bear src= 222 2h seen: 3
Procyonidae:
PSASSUTISCUSVOSIINUS en es oe Ringtail, or cacomistle___________- 1
EVOCUOMMOLOM cos oma nents eh RES | FUACCOONSS 2 bes ee ais 5
IVGSUG USING nee wok aN ne See Red‘ coatimindio. 2822 255--ccs225 2
INGSUCMONICH. eae a eee Oe ee Coatimundi so) ssc le cae 8
EOLOSNIVOU UR noise nis as Sor ee oy a ae a Kinkajos 222 See bee ko. 3
iDassaricyon gauvt.- 22 ssc2seee oso! Olim eG seeu be es Sean een Se 2
Mustelidae:
WVICUStClany REN CLG aa ee ee en Eastern weaseli (fio. 2125 S352 95 2
Mustela eversmannt_.-__-. - 2 2s Peret.albinos2 6525250 425255255 1
ET OROGTUGT ea) hans es romance Pay ras ves oh Fees saad Need 3
Galrclis ettata. © 82 2 a oats Ns See Grison 2822-20 fo eh a ye 1
Gulonluscus: «22584 #8 rn Aiea tee cette e Wolverings= 3. 225202 Sises Daa seas 1
Mephais mephitts=- 222 252. BS a2 2 Common skunk. 2252552222255 i
Spilogale gracilis phenax___.-__--_-- California spotted skunk_________- 1
WAUVORCINENEG aes sae ae Ss aD African small-clawed otter_______- Sy teas
Pteronura brasiliensis._._.......-.--- South American flat-tailed otter -- 1
Viverridae:
Genetta genelta neumanii______.---- Genetics. .222ecss forsee 4
Veverra.tangalunga. 2 2282882 Juss Ground civet 22232) 2a eek 1
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

MAMMALS—Continued
CARNIVORA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Viverridae—Continued
Prionodonnsangi2.- 25202 soso eee hinsangyt 22 2 et ee 1
Paguma larvata taivana_----------- Formosan masked civet or kitsume. 2
Arciictis DIntUnONGi = soe a Binturong! 220 fs soto sas eee 1
Herpestes 2chnewumone2--- = 2 a African gray mongoose_---+--=.=- 2
Atzlan: naludinosuss..— 2-2 Water civet-— -..2L. ...=-4¢ See 4
Ichneumita albicauda...-----=----== White-tailed civet.......-..-22422 1
Cryptoproctidae:
Crinte DTOCLEW ENOL. =- 3 ee se ee Rogsas v- o22_ 0938 2 seo eee 1
Hyaenida:
Crocuta crocuta germinans__-------- Spotted hyenas-===25-- 42 5222e—= 2
Hygena hyaenGs 2 ----22 5 a2 2 Striped hyena. 22-2 -5.55-e5eee= 2
Felidae:
DUNT CONAGENSI B= ean ee GYRO + oo ae le ee 1
WyRe PUpUus soa S2c 8 = Soho ses Bobestice.2 46-4... see 2
Relis chaues is 225 sete oe wee aan Jungle.cat. .<. -- s- seo eee 2
Melisiservuahi 22 ses ee ee eee Serval. cats. ..¢2.55 4: Soseeee 1
Relis pajaross252 sc osh a8) aeee ae Pampasicat-. 2. =. 2523. 255s il
Relaspardalts- 2-23 sae aa a> Ocelot... 5... 3-23-22 -5ee eee 3
HiGliswied tt tigrinGas a a eee Margay cat..-22-22--- 522s Sepeee 3
HelisicoOncolor.. ose So a a eee Pumas o3 25 2242s ee ose uf
: Leopard... 3. = 2525. nee 4
TOTTI ASSIS ee leopard) 2222223525 aoe 2
Melisiwle0s = 2 Seon tae sees eae Jion J2ss222s2-2--22 eee 6
MelistiGrissssen = foe on ne eae Bengal tiger: 2¢.2- 5) 520.2 eee 3
MeWStONCl a) ees a ee Jaguar. uc2+ 36555629522 eee eee 2
PeliBuncia 2250222 eee eee Snow leopard. =-.2-_.--2=4228 = 3
Acinonys jubota. =< --2. soso see Cheetah .=22.0-. 32534225 -eoeee 2
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus calvjorntanus-.-.---=- == Sea-lion.o2--=-262 5255. ee 2
Olaria flavestens=o2 2 =. =a eos oss Patagonian sea-lion___----------- 2
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
OnyclerOpusiOjefas = 22.2225 ee ana Aardvark. 22 sc2<5 2552 eee 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Lonodonta.afrieana.—- 22.222 222 African elephant_...=2-2-2L 2223 1
Elephas: Moaximus2ss sco ELSI LoS Indian elephant. = 2---.-. 22222 3
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Equus przewalskitss 2 sso a 2 ssa Mongolian wild horse------------ 1
Rquus kang) 2282.2 eee ee Asiatic wild ass, or kiang_.------- 1
Guus asinus 52 = As eee oe Burro, or donkey. 225 eS eee 1
Equus burchelli boehmi____--------- Grant’s zebra... -_-ss2255-55-eee= 5
BQuus Grevyoee. sae ea ae eee a Grevy7s: zebra. 3_ = eee 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT

MAMMALS—Continued

PERISSODACTYLA—continued

151

Scientific name Common name Number
Tapiridae:
Mapirius terrestjie = = a Brazilian tapir ews. ese 2
Rhinocerotidae:
Rehenocerosuntcornis..... - - == «Ha 5k Great Indian one-horned rhinoc- 1
eros.
Ceratotherium simum-_------------- White or square-mouthed rhinoc- 2
eros.
Dreerosibtcornts.- 5 22 2 sles sescsK African thinoceros.22 525-225-2225 2 1
ARTIODACTYLA
Suidae:
SUAISCLOl OMe oom Soin 2 See Se European wild boar. 22.2-...-.2- 1
Tayassuidae:
Pecaritajacu angulatus..-..---.._- Collared) peccaty=5: -2- <2 == se 2
Hippopotamidae:
Hippopotamus amphibius-_-_------- Elippopotamus. 922-2002 2 ee 4
Choeropsis liberiensts._....-2.2-2-- Pygmy hippopotamus___-___-___- 3
Camelidae:
EGU QUA Oe tae Beats ees (blamia Sie ee es 9
Lama glama guanicoe__.----------- Gusnaconse SOs. ss hee whe 3
DECIRORDUCOS HW ee Rem ee es Alpacas 22 ot ea teow a ape ee & 4
Camels 0actrtanuss. 222255 25S 5s see Bactrian came) £22 5-- 45k 2
Cervidae:
Deine ed ee fae fallow deer. -2= 32 2. t ie 10
PN pk NS PA corer Sarat | White fallow: deere 22.5042 -53.24) ) 13
PAS CNGLUS Use ae. BL My oa ea aha Aisi Gera on 2 Sat sete oe St ay ts 5
Centuscelaphussse ae a ase bse Redrdeers 22 a2 ee nt or eek 5
Conus canadensi§. 22-24 oss see AMO Can Clk 22s poe St 4
Cervus nivpOn= sos secs 22 eo usss a= Dike deere sas eset 5
Elaphurus davidianus__....--.----- Pere David’sideer= 225252222 2kee 2
Odocoileus virginianus_...--------- Virginia: deers wea ee eee @
Odocoileus virginianus costaricensis_. Costa Rican deer_______________- I
Giraffidae:
Okapia johnstont.2 2222222 22-555--— Oke Seb ota 2 Sh 2
Giraffa camelopardalis___.-.------- Nubian! giratie~ 452 5.255 ees 4
Antilocapridae:
Antilocapra americana__.---------- Pronghorn antelope___-_-__-__---- 1
Bovidae:
TGUT OU AGUSNOTUT — oe cies oop HESS oo AULA BOGAN 4 Os es ee eo a
Anoaldepressicornis2—s 252 5 ook SAGA See RI ee le ay ee 3
Bos tauriusy eset seal Saye onl 2 West Highland, or Kyloe, cattle_.. 3
TS OSUETICECUS aan ek an acai es Sah aes 2 Aebies2 se2b se Looe ages 1
Poephagus grunniens._ 2222 -23de04 BE) cite INE: OL es tl ee Se re 3
EPO OSA GOL USS teen te EE 2 eh Gah es 6G i a ee 5
SUNCETUSYCOT CT Se rom wat SS St SS African buffalo. 292 3-2a32 ees Sook 1
BASOWGISON Se A OSes ds American: DISONS 45a 3
(Bison Gonaste ee eee es oa European bison, or wisent______-- 2
Cephalophus nigrifrons___...------ Black-fronted duiker___.._______- 1
Saige tataricae 25288 fee Saiga antelope! . -4--4--- 25-525. - 1

492520—59——_11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

MAMMALS—Continued

ARTIODACTYLA—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Bovidae—Continued
Hemitragus jemlahicus__--.-------- Pahrosisou.<= 2-23 Se See 2
Pseudors NAVGUre ee eee Blue, or Bharal, sheep--~-------~-- 1
Ammotragus lervia.--------------- Aoudad =. 22.J2. 55. eae 6
Ovis:musimoncc! 2252520 oe cee Mouflon!..2.2_¢._0 eee 2
BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
SMUNTOICOMElLUS = a one oe eee Ostrich... -_<2==23.-2 eee 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
TRegamMeriCONnG. = a eee ae Rhea. 22235222548 ee 1
CASUARIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius unappendiculatus-_------- One-wattled cassowary._--------- 1
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae..-------- Emus 2422525 25-25 535 4
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Aptenodytes patagonica_----------- King penguin. 2-22 See 4
Pygoscelts adeliae-2=525-= === eee Adelie:penguin- = =2s=s-2+2secs=—— a
Spheniscus humboldti__..---------- Humboldt’s penguin==>—==see5e2 2
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Tinamus MGjOT === 32222-5555 225-5 Chestnut-headed tinamou-------- 1
PELICANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus onocrotalus-.---- 5-2-2 Rose-colored pelican_.----------- 2
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus__-------- White pelican... =). 22 22aeeme 6
Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis..._.. Brown pelican_.---------------- 1
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus_.._. Farallon cormorant-------------- 1
CICONIIFORMES
Balaenicipitidae:
‘Balaentctpes ret 922 ss ee Shoebillja22 -22.-5 3320 eae 1
Ardeidae:
Notophoyx novaehollandiae - - - - ~---- White-faced heron. =>.2-2--222e8 1
Florida caerulea. ce Blueiheron:« 2225532223220" ee 2
Deucophoys thulal i=. Jeass eR es Snowy egret. 2-22-5230 Se eee 3
Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli_------- Black- crowned night heron__----- 24
Tigrisoma lineatum---------- iAP Tiger bittern: =< + sj2s222 22 Stee 5
SECRETARY'S REPORT

BIRDS—Continued
CICONIIFORMES—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Cochleariidae:
Cochlearius cochlearius...---------- Boat-billed heron. 2. .=12-\:seueen 2
Ciconiidae:
Dassouraieptscopus...-- -2--b ji -508 Woolly-necked stork._-_.-_..---. 1
Leptoptilus crumeniferus-_---------- Maerabourstorksss 2.2 sseceu- 2255 1
Leptoptilus javanicus_------------- Lesser.adjutant....-_---s< ses 2% 2
Threskiornithidae:
Mycteria americana...-------=---- WiOOGiMDIBE sent at eee et oe 1
Threskiornis melanocephala__.------ Black-headed ibis__..-....------. 1
AGOIG OF GIGA. 2 ote otek Roseate spoonbill...-...-.--.---- 2
IE UAOCLMUSIQU Gee ae ee ae Wihiteibis= 0222 ob. aos 3
Fudocumus ruber... 2-24-52 .-22 bh =5 Carlet ois’ — eek Re oo lee se aa 3
Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus antiquorum_-------- Old: World flamingo. = 32525 425. 1
Phoenicopterus ruber. .------------ Cuban: flamingOuoe. sooo 22225 2
Phoenicopterus chilensis__.._.------- Chilean: flamingo. =--.. 222222822 2
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Chauna torquata. = 2-2-2223 Crested screamer: 3.222 5525225: 4
Anatidae:
UTIUSICUGNUG foe ee WMOODET SWate ot a oS Sees Late 2
Cygnus columbianus.._ ===. ---2- Whistling Swanss 202s co oe sss 4
Cyaonus Gucci Galois ae ee Arumpeterswaneoses 2-252 22k 2
Plectropterus gambensis_--.-------- Spur-winged goose____-_---------- 1
Cereopsis novaehollandiae__-_------- Cape Barren goose_____.--------- 1
Anseranus semipalmata_.------- eos Australian pied goose. = — 242 2.25 2 1
Chenonis Gainer aoe a Black swanses 22sec. 5222 7222 3.4 3
ChencGerulescens ose a= ee Ble! C0088. so 6- one aoe nee ee 6
Chem hyperborea. = Sano pe a Se Lesser snow goose.._------------ 2
CRERIOUONUCOW2 oo ge aoe Pewee SNnOwsPOOses= ce were ee 7
UCR Ss Se ee ae ee ee ROSS’ S:PO086s= ooo. aso s eee 4
PARSER CLDIF ONS sean Soe Bee oe White-fronted goose__-_-__------ 2
PRU AVES INOtCE 22 we oe ee Indian bar-headed goose._..-----. 6
WeAWacle CANAQICO 22 ee ee eM peror: GoOoses 22222 255 ee 2
Psranld CONQdCN SIS oa ce ee Ie @anaaa g00se. ae 2 bese eS 13
Branta canadensis canadensis X Chen Hybrid, Canada goose X blue 2
caerulescens. goose.
Branta canadensis occidentalis __-_--- White-cheeked goose___---------- 7
Branta canadensis minima_ -------- Cackiing POOseLs2s5-2-25--2-n22- 6
Branta canadensis leucopareia------ Lesser Canada goose------------- i,
Chloephaga leucoptera_...---------- Wpland coosee= === 22 oe ee 1
Dendrocygna autumnalis_.--.------ Black-bellied tree duck___-------- 8
Sarkidiornis melanota....--------- Combiduck 22.2 525552 502-2 eee 1
Dadornatadornna= <2. 2 one a aes European shell duck_------------ 1
Anas platyrhynchos_._...--------- Mallard duck. 222.22 5 eee ne 14
Anas platyrhynchos oo 225228 3 Mallard duck, albino__.__.--..-.- 1
Anas platyrhynchos domestica_-_-_---- IReking GUCK)--oeseeeee aoe caso 5
Anas platyrhynchos X A. acuta_---- Hybrid, mallard duck X American 1

pintail duck.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

BIRDS—Continued

ANSERIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Anatidae—Continued
Anas poecilorhyncha_..------------ Indian spotted-bill duck__________ 1
AROS RUDI DCS ae aes eee Blacktduck s..2S422_._ 23 = 2
ANGE CCUG one LA Pintail:duek....-.2) SOS, Sees 1
IMGrecd GMNEntCanGss=a soe Baldpate= << 2252 kd See 9
Ain sponse. cceee eat lel tue See Wood-duck.<.--t2s2 i See 5
Aix sponsa X Aythya americana._.- Hybrid, wood duck X red-headed 1
duck.
Dendronessa galericulata___-------- Mandarin duck22 -20 2) Sis beste 29
Netta:nufing aa SE ee ae Red-crested pochard__---- 259 2 1
Aythya valisinerigs2- === 20-22 JL Canvasback duck_ 2.2252 25.2822 9
Aythya: AMerican du» === = se au Soke Red-headed duck <2 2U 0s sSeMoues 10
AMR Y A MOT Gre eee ee eee Greater scaup duck. --24 eae 4
Anihya-afiniss ane Tree ak Lesser scaup'dtick=24+ 22 an siimae is
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
Sarcorampnus papa. =225-22--—--=- King vulture.22. a22225-25-- =e 1
(COROT TOS GOH eee een eesanee Black. vulture,-22522-52 eee 3
Catharics auraaes anes so eee eee Purkey vulture2)- 222 eee 3
Sagittariidae:
Sagittarius serpentarius_____._____-- secretary bird: 2-- = == 2
Accipitridae:
Odontriorchis cayanensis__-._------ Cayenne kitel. 2 2. eee 1
Milvus migrans parasitus___--.---- African yellow-billed kite_________ 2
HanasturindUsh ses se ee eee Brahminy, Kites se] 225252 1
(Buiteo POCCHLOCRTOUS= Senet een = Buzzard eagie_2= =. = 1
BineOjamaicensis== = ae Red-tailed hawk. 22 22 eee 5
ERULCO SUWALTSONLU Se = = ee ee Swainson’s hawk... "2-222 see 2
Leucopternis melanops...-.-------- Black-faced hhawks2 2-2-2 seee== 1
iBusarellusinigricollts. eee ee eae Black-throated buzzard. __.__---- 1
Morphnus guianensis__........---- Guianan crested eagle__________-- 1
arma horpyja ns. ae ene Harpy ‘eagle: 2: --_ eee 1
Pithecophagus jefferyt_..._._.-.-_-- Monkey-eating eagle__________--- 1
Aquila chrysaetos canadensis____--~-- Goldeneagle: 2022 eee 1
Haliaeetus leucocephalus_._-_-.----- Bald eagle): act ee ee ih
GaSe pVelib=s wae sae eee eee ee Ruppell’s"vulture=. 2-2 -se see eee 2
Iseudogyps GjTicQnus = ose. eee White-backed vulture____________ 1
Terathopius ecaudatus.__...__-_----- Bataleurieagle-2 5.222 22. 22eee eee 1
Falconidae:
Micrastur semitorquatus____..-_---- Forest: falcon 2-2 > 2 2222s eenee 2
Mileago-clhamanqos 226-22 ee Chimango2*222. Sook eee 2
EZOLYCOTWS LOT CLES ate ate pe South American caracara_____---- 3
Polyborous Clentwalfenane eae es a a Audubon’s caracara-_..-- = sees 1
Fi GUCOMeLICOMUS® Do eee eee Prairietfaleon: 222212. 22eee eee 1
Falco peregrinus anatum___-------- Duckhawk-- 255 oooh eee eee 1
PGLCO SPOTVETtUS = on oe eee eee Sparrow hawk 2222-2. eee 5
SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

BIRDS—Continued

GALLIFORMES
Sctentific name Common name Number
Megapodiidae:
wmlectura lathamt=22 520-6435 5-- <5 Brushturkey=- <2 2. <= shee 1
Cracidae:
Nothocraz urumutum...----------- Nocturnal curassow-_...._.......- 2
Crasciglbertte meas a= a2 32 een saSsst = Blue-cered curassow.....-.-..--- 2
yar glotuhosan S223 2 8 an Watitled-curassow,.._ .....-......-.= 2
Pipileicumaneénsis____......-.,--==: White-headed piping guan________ 1
@Gravmanamensies. 2852 S52 aose2s Panama curassow2=-—--.-...--.- 1
Phasianidae:
PALE CLOnIS: GRGECW nF se se Chukariquaib=s 5 632.2525. e358 2
Colenusivirginianus..... 2 =. <.-- Bobwhiterquatlle a2 22552 sess. e 1
Perdet Der dee Ose Ree ek Hungarian partridge_..-_-_..---- 2
Golurnityapontca. ==. = 2 Japanese king quail__._________- i
Gennaeus leucomelanus..-----.---- Nepal pheassntas 22.223 2
Gennaeus swinhott_...------------- Swinhoe’s pheasant._..--_.------ 2
Gallvargalivis ees sos oat esc eee Redijunglelowlissk. 72-4 2 6
Phasianus colchicus torquatus_--_---- ee eee = ett ;
SUnMALCUS TECVESts 22a o se Reeves’s pheasant....--2--...... 2
Chrysolophus amherstiae_..-------- Lady Amherst pheasant_.__.___-- 3
Chrysolopnus pictues == —-— 22-2 -- « Golden’ pheasante- cose] - see eee 9
PARGUSTONIUS QnOUS= == 2 oe aaa es oe Argus pheasanto =.= - => = 50-228 3
ZOU ONCTUSLGLUS ee tee = ae a nL tT eae Eas pt apples cage ck epee aE >
Tie Bluespesfowll2. = 2asessecte 2 feo 3
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum__...--------- Vulturine guineafowl___._.____-- 1
Meleagrididae:
Agriockarts ocellatds. 2 — 2-1 28 Ocellated turkey .2...522: s5ueu22 il
Meleagris gallopavo... ...2-2-4<<=.% Wild turkeys. 's=- 22 2eceheee Site 2
GRUIFORMES
Gruidae:
Gris leucogeranus._ 22>. 22) Aa eeee Sibenianwerines-- = see a eee 1
ANUNTODGIAES UTJO~ 2.225 2 oe oe Demoiselle crane- 22. .-2- i162 1
Psophiidae:
Pseophia crepuane..22-> == sara a ‘Lrumpeter 222 2.2 Jae Bas 2
Rallidae:
Rallus timicala- > 2st asahh casein Virginia rails Scie, eon 1
Laterallus leucopyrrhus_..-.------- Black-and-white crake________-_- 1
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans_._---- Florida gallinule__... s922u12 38s. 1
Porphyrio poliocephalus___--------- South Pacific swamp hen_-_--_--_- 1
Fulica americang..o928 2208 veLsie American coot_... £s222u0a0% oun 2
Eurypygidae:
Huropyga, heliass2teiue 2 agcealbes Sun. bittern,-.._.- 22s sae ae 2
Cariamidae:

Cariama.cristatasscer atic fet enits Cariama, or seriama_.-_--..--_-- 1
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

BIRDS—Continued

CHARADRIIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Jacanidae:
Jacana spinosa hypomelaena______-- Blacks jacana’ _—- 22 1
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus__..--------- Oystercatcher. 2.) ee 3
Charadriidae:
Belonopterus cayennensis__.--.------ South American lapwing---___-_- 2
Charadrius wocierus. 2 2222522 on ee Folidéer = coe i sat. 1
Recurvirostridae:
Himantopus himantopus mexicanus.__ Black-necked stilt.__._________- 1
Burhinidae:
IBurhinis Orsirtaus setae Soo ee ene South American thick-knee______ 2
Stercorariidae:
Catharacta maccormacki_.__-------- MacCormack’s skua_ 22) eee 4
Laridae:
OPUS CElGWOrensig oe 22 Sate Ring-billed gullc= 22222 ae eee 2
Tarde Comimnicanis 2s oo Kelp guild ee 2
arusvati cull sees on eee Laughing: gull--2.) ss ntieins eee 1
Larus novaehollandiae__-...------- Silver gull® 2222222 sss eee 12
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Columba lnvia= 22-2 AG ee Homing pigeons = 2725012 Sees 16
Columba fasciata=2s222222s222 52022 Band-tailed pigeon -—- - 2-22. 2
Columba nigrirostris-25.=2. 22S L S22 Black-billed pigeon_---_-.------ i
Penatdura Macroura== 28. 2 se Mourning dovesl-s 222225 eee 3
Zenaida asiatica.$2/22 UU UU a Bao White-winged dove____-____---- 2
iSene MLO DeltG GeCO0Cl Oe =e a ans ee Ring-necked dove_.----------_- 16
Streptopelia tranquebarica________-_- Blue-headed ring dove_-____--_- 2
Geopelia cuneata. 2 = DiamMonaddovies c= =e eee 1
Gallicolumba luzonica____.-_-------- Bleeding-heart dove_--_--------- 2
Gouradictoria sews ee ee Crowned pigeon 222241. see 2
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
INESLOTATLOLG.UULES Hs ature ee Kes. parrot. ..25-22202 ae 2
Domucellagarrulasss 22. 2 eae Red lory.z._.. <= 2SOL ws Rae 1
Calyptorhynchus magnificus___—----- Banksian cockatoo_2--=-— = 222888 2
Callocephalon jfimbriatum__..__--~-- Gang-gang cockatoo_____-_------ 4
Kakdtoe: alban lee atic) a: i taal White cockatoouoless2av1L ese) 2
Kakatoeducrops-> = elena absent Solomon Islands cockatoo_____-_--- 1
(Kakatoe galerttat 222503 207 5 ipsa Sulphur-crested cockatoo___----.- 6
Kakatoe sanguineus__.--.-_-------- Bare-eyed cockatoo______-.------ 5
Kakatoe moluccensis..-...._.....- Great red-crested cockatoo_-__-_-_- 2
Kakatoe leadbeatert___...- 205.0232 Leadbeater’s cockatoo____-_--_--- 8
Nymphicus hollandicus_.--..------ Cockatiels... .__..3- 222 2 senee 5
AGG GnQuragung. ie take eee ete Yellow-and-blue macaw__-------- 3
‘Ara. chloropterd= 32-5! ae eee es Red-and-blue macawe-2==-- eae 3
ATO ROCEO! = 208 TO eee Oe Red-blue-and-yellow macaw_- - ---- 3
ATGtINOGICONICUIOLTS = = eee Petz’s parakeet_-2 22-2 e sae 1
ATGUNGE DeTINGL see ee Rusty-cheeked parrot....-.------ 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT 157

BIRDS—Continued

PSITTACIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
iBrotogeris gugularien =.=. - <2. 2222 Tovi parakeet.--2 2. 3 eee 1
ATOZ OUGICESLU te eat ves Blue-fronted parrot__.__._2 2222 1
Amazona auropalliata___...___--_- Yellow-naped parrot____..._____- 3
Amma vOnaN Nacht). Joe a LS Minschsspeirot< 22-05 Ue ee 1
Amazona leucocephala____...------ Cuban parrotss: 2225: 6222 ee 1
Amazone bodiny 0 oe ee OP Pe Red-fronted parrot_____________-_ 1
Amazona ochrocephala____..__----- Yellow-headed parrot__-___.______ 1
VAG ZONG ONGITIee ies 8 Pee a a Double yellow-headed parrot_____- 3
iesttlacula eupatyta ls ae) eee Red-shouldered parakeet__._____- 1
Pesttlacula jasciata, 22 228 5 eee Moustache parakeet__._..._____- 1
Polytelss swainsont..-.........-.=. Barraband’s parakeet._.._....-_- 2
Agapornis rosetcollis.........-..1% Rosy-faced lovebird__._.____..--- 1
PAgapornts jischert2. 0 2). 8-3 Yellow-collared lovebird_________- 1
Agapornis personata__.._....-.----- Masked lovebird oi 22228228 6
Flatycercus elegans 2222202 5202 Pennant’s parakeet_._.......-.-- 3
Platycercus exemius.. =.= << Rosella parakeet: _.. 2.2) eno 1
Melopsittacus undulatus______.----- Grass parakeet. J) 022) ule Many
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
OUOCO DETSa =o = Oa ee eared Ly! Purple turaco:. -s2eus oe eens eee 1
Pauraco corjthate- 2. esis ee South African turaco____________- 1
Orin perairecanus ge eae Se = Plantain-eater 3022 8s] tee 2
Cuculidae:
Eudynamys scolopacea__......----- We@el oS. eno) 2 eh iuiabinn a nase Cirsk 4 1
Geococcyx californianus__......---- Roadrunner..2 oe kes eka 1
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto alba pratincola___._..-..------ Barn owls... 2230 bees Fee 2
Strigidae:
Otus\ G8t0) 22 2 SUL ae Screech owl... 26 wekhehas soe 1
ubo Urrgenianus 20 ee Great horned owl_...........--- 5
Bubo virginianus elutus__.--------- Colombian great horned owl_-_-- 1
WMCLN DO RCULDU seco. Se a is See ee Malay fishing owl... .-..- ue. 1
INUCLEO RycCled a a. I Snowy Owl. a sees Soa 4
ME ULOOTLG VOLG= =o 252. ees eels Barrediowl 22.6 ns uae a he 10
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Priotelus temnurus. J22 2-222. se @uban Grovanies 2 ste toa if
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
WDOQCELOS GGUS en Ne aes pS oe acres Kookaburra. soa. soe 3
Momotidae:
WMomolusilessontes == ee tess sss oe Motmotes soc eee eee 2
Coraciidae:

Coracias benghalensis__......------ Indianr roller: 5258 5 eee esee 2
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

BIRDS—Continued

CORACIIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Upupidae:
UpuUpG 6pONss sae eee ne Hoopoe...,2.-25..-8i12552 ees 2
Bucerotidae:
Tockus binosiris. OSes fees Pee Grey hornbill.. 222222229 See 2
AlCenOs UN U OSs = ee eee Malayan hornbill2_—_2 232 Sas i
VAICEROSY DLEC OLS ea eae ee ea Wreathed hornbill_._..._...___-_- 1
Anthracoceros malabaricus___.------ Pied hornbill_...- 5.2 52 4 ee 1
Bycanistes subcylindricus......--.-- Black-and-white casqued hornbill_ 2
Ceratogyumne trata wa - 2 ob a te Black-casqued hornbill___._..__- 2
BUcenoseeydTnoconageee = ete eee Philippine hornbill- 2223322 1
Bucoreus abyssimicuses 22 Lees ae Abyssinian ground hornbill_____- 1
PICIFORMES
Capitonidae:
Megalaima zeylonica________------ Streaked barbet==2= ==) eee 2
Cyanops astaticas= 2222 == a ee eee Asiatic red-fronted barbet______-- 1
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus albivittatus_____---- White-lined toucanet_________..~- 1
Plier OglossUs LOT QUQluS essa == oe oe Ringed aracari toucanet_____.__-- 1
Ramphastos culminatus_..-..------ White-breasted toucan_________-- il
Ramphastos carinatus_2-. = - 22 = Sulphur-breasted toucan___.____-- 2
Ramphastos swainsoni.__---------- Swainson’s toucan.__-_ 12252 ssa 1
AM DRASLOSItOCO 4a ete eee ‘Rocco MOUCan Eno sas ae ee ee 1
Picidae:
Colantesauralisee ess] =e ae Yellow-shafted flicker__._._._...__--
Melanerpes cruentatus__.__..------ Little black woodpecker__.__.__-- 2
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
ep vCol a TL D1C0l Oa ee ee Orange cock-of-the rock._____-__- 1
Rupicola sanguinolenta____..------ Scarlet cock-of-the rock_.___-.--- 1
Tyrannidae:
Prtangus sulphuraius-_- = 228 ceess Kiskadee flycatcher___._____ 4322 1
Alaudidae:
Alauda anensisazos. Sha 2 eaktieoia Skylark... .2ah23.;223 eee 2
Corvidae:
Cyanoncitig-cristata. <4 2-88 aoe Bluejay.....2-2..22. 2. ee 2
Cyanocitia_stellert.— 3. <2: Sate Steller’s jay ....-.-_. Mac* See 4
PCG LCA MAS ONICh a= oe a eee Marpieu 3. ses 2 9
RACauit all ta ae eee Yellow-billed magpie__________-_- 1
C7SSGsChiNenets a= er meee ee Chinese cissa.222_- 2... .. See 1
Urocissa cacrulegaeea nase ns: SSE Formosan red-billed pie_________-_ 2
Dendrocitiajormosdensee ae) Asiatic tree pie__.-=2.-.=- 222525 2
Corvus coraz principalis=—-—- === = - Ravens 25-2505... 1
Corvus: alba 522-2 eee eee African white-necked crow___.---- 2,
Corvus brachyrhynchos_------------ C1OWa- sashes oo eee 1
Comnusinsolens 252 = eee Indianccrow — -.<<22i5552- 22 oe 2
Cracticidae:

Gymnorhina hypoleuca__----------- White-backed piping crow_------- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

BIRDS—Continued

PASSERIFORMES—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Ptilonorhynchidae:
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus _--------- Satin bowerbird.i222525 sara 2
Timaliidae:
Pomatorhinus horsfieldit_..-.------ Indian scimitar babbler_.__._.__-
Pomatorhinus erythrogenys--------- Rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler___ 1
Heterophasia capistrata_..--------- Black-headed sibia_-.-..-..-..-._- it
Sittidae:
ulavcasianeds ea Uc eee Ut Boeke Chestnut-bellied nuthatch________ 2
STUGLCANOLINENsts. 2-2. =. 2 2 See White-breasted nuthatch________- 2
Pycnonotidae:
EAICNOROUUSICO) Cl ae een eee ee oe Red-vented bulbul___.-_---__--_-- 1
Pycnonotus leucogenys-_------------ White-cheeked bulbul__..._--__-- 1
Turdidae:
Tr Gest OV Otte ss oe Se Bonaparte’s thrush —. 2654 S3ubu i
Murdushmegnavon.Uuseeess sae soa ae Albino ro binga ses eae ee eee 1
Thamnolaca cinnemomeiventris __- ~~ - Cliff Chatzcos- sess as See 2
Sturnidae:
Acriaovhenes irisivs-2 22222-0225 5-2 Jungle mynahsss= S552 Ue 1
Lamprocclius purpureus_-.-------- Burchell’s glossy starling._-___---_ 3
iSpreoisupervus- sau h Ba Su lan.: Tricolored or superb starling_---_-_ 1
sturnus malabarica. 22020 Sell Ure Gray-headed mynah_______-__-_- 1
EZGStO%eT OSEUS a re oe te See ee Rose-colored pastor....--..------ 1
STUNMUS VUIGATIS oo aseee Se es Starhncess yaw ae See Ea il
Gracula religiosa tndica._-/.---2--- besser hill’mynalise 255024 2ie sc 1
Gracula religiosa robusta. __-------- Nias wattled mynah___..___-__-- 1
Graculaneligrosa. 22s. 28 Ein Hillsmynabs 2 22. a a & e 3
Nectariniidae:
Nectarinta johnstont.....-.-----2-- Dark malachite sunbird._.__.___- |
Ploceidae:
WPloceus OdYGa = cco sn LEONE Oe Baya weaver...i222. 0st Be 9
Ploceuswitellinusses 22 ae eee Vitelline masked weaver____---__- 3
Oneleq quclease =. 225-88 es Red-billed weaver_._....-------- 1
Busplectesvortee sss se se sees Red bishop weaver..-.---------- 2
EX DUCCLESEG,1 7, aes en eee Yellow-crowned bishop weaver__-_ 6
Diatropura procne.—.- =-==.--=-—-- Grantawhydahs2 2 42 225s 5e-5— S22 5
Steganura paradisaea____---------- Paradise whydahs22 2245252555 3
Ploceipasser mahali___...--------- Mahalitweavers=*222 secs se sera = 1
Manta 0Ty 2WOTd eae eee cee ee Javaiinciaes ss eee sce eee ce 18
FAUNG OL OSCIOLG. ee eee Cut-throat weaver finch__-__----- 5
OTOH ALT CLESTUCL) Lee eee ene oe oe White-headed nun__.------------ 9
Estrilda angolensis_..._....-..----- Cordon‘blew finch= 2222 eis eoe il
Bstriudn coerulescens== 22 === 225 Poh lavender finch! = - 2. 2 2es3s sss 2
PSU etna ween. See Se Red-eared waxbill.. -222- 2222822 1
Esiridactroglodytes=. 22 22x22 2 0Ny Common *waxbillz> +-232s2ee2ee"2 4
Zosterops palpevrosa 22s Sh Wihite-evyex= 2224 92S ye eee 2
TEINS COOL OOO = ee Straw berty, inches. = =a a 9
Poephila gutiata castanotis___ .__-_- Hevraytini chs. 222 2 ae ee 26

Black-headed Gouldian finch__-____ 2

RIAD Re ee ae FE oes ass
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

BIRDS—Continued

PASSERIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Icteridae:
Xanthornus decumanus_-_---------- Crested oropendola_~_-_------____ 1
Psomocolax oryzivora....---------- Riceigrackle.=_.<..2cos_-2- oer 1
Tanganusiarmentt. <2 2240 ar tn we le Colombian red-eyed cowbird__-_--__ 1
Molothrus bonariensis__----------- Silky; cowbird s22c Uae Sue 1
Qutscalusiquiscula 2 2ike Shas esse Purple grackle= 22 32ue.. sree 1
ViCterusiGGlo ula et ee ee Se eee Baltimore oriole 2222-2225 222 1
Tclerus giaudi ss Sess ae ier Giraud’s orloles< 2252222253 28282 1
ictenus icteruss ee ee ee ee Troupial= iso e20 ae eee il
Agelaius icterocephalus___--------- Yellow-headed marshbird________- 1
Thraupidae:
Calospiza ruficanillas® )-o-2-2-4i22 Brown-headed tanager.______-__- 1
Thraupis leucoptera_.....---.------ White-edged tanager.._..._________ 1
Traunis (CONG == Sates Sie nee tess Blue:tanager.....2.=.. suse eee 1
Ramphocelus dimidiatus___-------- Crimson ‘tanager__o2424a2 542 ae Sa ae |
Ramphocelus passerinii__---------- Passerini’s tanager._...__...._--.-- 2
GrssomisilevertaNnGa seo eee eee Black-and-white tanager______--_ Z
Fringillidae:
Salalor MALUNUSs Essense ee Buff-throated saltator_.-_-----__-- 1
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis__------ Black-eared cardinal_......_._--- 2
Paroaria, cucullalaee == 2p ece= Brazilian cardinal_<. 22.2222 sae if
Spe Gmericanas Sess ys.  se Sas. Dickcissel sparrows-_----------.-- 7
Hesperiphona vespertina__--------- Evening grosbeak______--_--_--- 3
Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis_-_ -_-- House finch. .-221...22-32222 1
Sporophila gutturalis__..---------- Yellow-billed finch_..._._...----- 8
Carduelis\carductise. == 52 eh a Oe Huropean goldfinch--si2--2444eas 4
Carduelis carduelis X Serinus European goldfinch X canary_---- 1
canarius.
NETINUSLCONATANG so ae ee ee Canary 3222 2osds. 2220S eee 2
picalts luteola. 52 eee ee Saffron finch.- ...---- 22352323 ees ‘a
Melospiza melodia—= {2b a2e 5 ae Song sparrow. ...-- 2-642 eee 1
REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae:
Grocodylus niloticus. .=—.-_-.-=24-- African crocodile= 22-22-22 s=se=—— 1
Oxteolaemus teiraspias 2. 2 2 Broad-nosed crocodile__-_____-_--- 3
Crocodylus cataphractus___.-------- Narrow-nosed crocodile -__------ 1
Crocodylus porous: == 26 22 one Salt-water crocodile___._________-_- 1
Crocodylustacuisas= sean eae American crocodile. ._...._._._-- 2
Alligator mississipiensis_--.------- Alligators 2322205. 3 2 15
Allzgatonisinests sae eee ee Chinese alligator. 22 = 2220 eee 2
Caimanisclerops=sa2 ee ee eee Caiman? 2st} =i. 25 5
Toemistomalechiegelt= =e esa 2-—- ee Gavial-(alse) 2 eee 1
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
Gecko emttht2i <2 Se o peee ek ee Giant gecko. 22232222 1
Scientific na
Chamaeleonidae:

Chamaeleo mellert_......---..+---
Chamaeleo dilepis......-----------

Iguanidae:

houanencquands ss 2. Se Les Se
Anos carolinensts...- === ee 22s S
Anolis cristatelluseteus 2 s2-leblece
Phrynosoma cornutum__.----------
Sceloporus undulatus. .....-.------
ISQUROMALUS ODESUS Eee Set Stee
Ctenosaura acanthura__..-.--------
Ciyclura-stejnegerta.—22_- 22426 ULE

Scincidae:
Mabuya multifasciata

SC CRNTOILUCLUOSE = ae ee ee
Boerntavwhitet. = oe Sa
Bumeces fasciatus. -— 25. Jeaeee alee
ISCUNCUS*OPCINANS2 2 _ 232 BEG tee

Trachysaurus rugosus
Gerrhosauridae:

Gerrhosaurus major - -

Teiidae:

Tupinambis nigropunctatus_._._-----

Tupinambis teguixin—
Anguidae:

Gerrhonotus multicarinatus__..---~.-
Ophisaurus ventralis___......------

Helodermatidae:

Heloderma suspectum____----------

Heloderma horridum_-

Varanidae:

Varanus salvator.s2 202 232030 Selves
Var anuswariusan Bese et Geis
Varanus albigularis..........-----

Zonuridae:

Zonurus giganteus_...._------------

Boidae:

Constrictor c. constrictor.._._.._-----

Constrictor constrictor

Punectes, Muriwnus so oe Se
Finicrates, COncniid 2... == 2s
EBpicrates anguisjer. 8 242). tie
og enydris enydriss. . 2b. e528
Boa enyaris, cookis__ . 4 gute 2s
Erys thebatcus. = 22 sedan es
Pighon. regvus. a Se aes

SECRETARY’S REPORT

REPTILES—Continued

SAURIA—continued

161

me Common name Number
Meller’s chameleon______________ 3

Flap-necked chameleon___________ 12

Common iguang.2222 2. 220 she ean 2

American anoles sous. ose Many

Little crested anole______________ 1

‘Texas horneditlizards jen --Veaeul es: 10

Bence lizard: 2 Bsa Ucn SiGe ene: 3

Chuckwallasstucq cu lelun oie wie ie 1

Spiny-tailed lizard_.............. 1

Mona Island iguana. 0. sol esesee: 1

ayieciayag gh hele! Za Malayani skinkie ois 8n orl eaer utn YG
Mourningyekinks 9. boule 2

Wihite/siskimkaae as Wate BAe rns i

Greater five-lined skink__________ 5

Sand: skink2 33.2 sua bel ails ate 8

Tip dente tas Lard any Stump-tailed lizard....__._._._-- i
SP rains. Platedelizard 2 oe ie Sn Uf
Black teguliviuierieodeg oo sek 1

a RR OO Yellow: teguvsiuss wraa m2 het 1
Altigatorlizarde..2 ieee sn ae 1

Glassilizard== 2483225 Wiahah en! 2

Gilasmonsterss oe ee eras 3

Beaded lizard (black phase) ------- 1

Sia, type tao ldd od Pipeiio Mexican beaded lizard___________ 2
Indian monitor lizard__.______-__ 1

Australian lace monitor.._____._- 2

Cape:- monitors c 2b ALE 1

Spiny lizard. ooo be ee ae 1

SERPENTES

Bossconstrictors 2442 24 42 ese 2

imperator _---- Empero?t boa.822-se-ae2uleheeeee 1
Anacondae 2. ose se eee 2

Rainbowsboa= i... - 2 ee eae 4

Cuban’ tree boa... === 8822422 8

Tree, DOAse ic sees le nose eee ees il

@ook/s’tree: boas) see ee ee 1

Sharp-tailed sand boa___-__--_--- 1

Ball python 5

meee ee ee ew ee ee ee ee ee
162

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

REPTILES—Continued

SERPENTES—continued

Scientific name
Boidae—Continued
Python, sebaes 2.8 seks nae S eee
Python mnoluris eae ae eee
Python retveulatus =) as Sen oe
Colubridae:
Lampropeltis getulus getulus__------
Lampropeltis getulus holbrookt--- ---
Lampropeltis getulus californiae _-- --
Lampropeltis getulus floridana- --.--
Lampropeltis getulus splendida__----
Lampropeltis doliata ssp___--------
Lampropeltis doliata triangulum____-
Lampropeltis rhombomaculata__---- --
Lampropeltis doliata polyzonua_ -----
Thamnophis sirtalis ordinata_-_-_----~-
Thamnophis sirtalis proxima___ ----
Natrin sipedon=2ti = =e a2 8s ee
Natrisinhombijend= css en eee eee
INatuscitacispilotas eee. eee
Natrixz cyclopion floridana_---------
iNatnavenythrogasten= =) ose none
NaiumrEniCiiventr1 saa aa aa ae
Coluber constrictor constrictor_-~-----
Drymarchon corais couperi_--------

Elpahe obsoleta obsoleta___---------

Elaphe obsoleta confinis__..--------
Elaphe guttata emoryi_._.-_--------
Elaphe quadrivitiata_____2.-..--=--
Hlaphertaenvurass aes ee oe
Blaphe carinatasacns sees) Fee
Abastor erythrogrammus___---------
Boaedon lineatum=aas aaa eee ae
Diadophis punctatus edwardsti-___---
Opheodrys majori. = 2-2 ees ae
ISLORCHUGOCKOYt se ee eee
Dryonhisprasinus.__ =_ 2 425 eee
AU QSEINALCOS LS eee ee

IS DELOLE SALLIE S Sree es ee

Dispholiidus typuss- 05 2PU sles Sot

Simocephalus capensis.__...-------

Chrysopelea peltas=. 2 2 = aw
Elapidae:

Common name Number
African python_2..\22 226_esaseee 1
Indian rock python. 3355_ susan 2
Regal-python: ¢-.2 1252. 225 Seer 2

King snakes....5. 224s Sse
Speckled king snake____________-
California king snake_____-____-_-
Florida, king snakelsie)\5_2 fea
Sonoran. king snakeiuess_s 2252282
Scearletiking snakes 222205 3222458
Milk.snakes = #2222 -2 uals ee

Tropical king snakesss)3) see enae
Garter snake. =. _ c2sssel nee

Water snakess22. 22252522 ae
Diamond-backed water snake_____
Brown water snake___.______-_--
Green water snake__.__.__.______-

Indigotsnake= _. -S22555 ese
Pilot black snake, albino________-
Pilot‘black snakesss4b25_2 224243"
Southern pilot black snake____--_-
Corn'snake:_ 2224.2 Sse eee

Asiaticwratisnake: 2. =.2-2 2eeeeee
Lesser Indian rat snake_________-
Rainbow spakes.22 52-2 222-2 eee
African house snake, or musaga- -~.
Ring-necked snake___._-__--.----
Formosan green snake__-___------
DeKay’s snake:.-.322 42 --=24854
Grass-green whip snake____------

Dhaman, or greater Indian rat

Black and yeliow rat snake______-
Boomslang.22 fet s.022 ae
Hilejsnakes ssi soo oS eee
Twin-barred tree snake___-___-_--

PPD KF ON KF RF wWN HE RK DPR OR Re Re RH RH b&b dD
SECRETARY'S REPORT 163

REPTILES—Continued

SERPENTES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Viperidae:
Vepera russellst = ss! here eee sete Russells viper: = eis: cates eek se t
Crotalidae:
Ancistrodon contoririz laticinctus___._  Broad-banded copperhead __-_____- 5
Ancistrodon piscivorus......------- Water moccasin or cottonmouth___ 4
Ancistrodon piscivorus leucostoma_.. Western water moccasin__________ 1
AN CIStrOdOT ACULUSH as aor eae See Asian snorkel viper______-_______ 3
Dremeresurus wWaglert. =f 2% 2 ees PIG Viper 20a ee ee ak scapes Se 1
Trimeresurus gramineus__--------- Palnttviper = 2 82525 eset ety ete 11
Trimeresurus popeorum___--------- Pope's: pie Viper. oa = 32 hte 1
deemeresurus cleganso=--25-—---555 Mamushi, or Asiatic viper________ 2
Trimeresurus flavoviridis__...__-_-- Habu, or Asiatic viper. _.-.._._.- 4
Trimeresurus okinavensis._.____-_--- Habu, or Asiatic viper__-~_.2_._.- i
Crotalus adamanteus___..--.------- Kastern diamond-back rattlesnake. 1
Cronus denote se Aten ae ate Western diamond-back rattlesnake. 18
Crotalus horridus: 02-5) 45925 45225 Timber rattlesnake_..2....-252-- 1
CHELONIA
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina. + 2-222 Snapping cuntle ss os) vos ce 12
Macroclemys temminckit____..-.--- Alligator snapping turtle_________ §
Kinosternidae:
Sternotherus odoratus_...__.------- Mis GUTGles, 22s SS ee 3
Kinosternon subrubrum____.--_------ EVO VG kat 0 betel (= aero ae peemiN Ole e Rle A al 5
Kinosternum cruentatum__._.------ South American mud turtle______- 4
Iimydidae:
Clegemius Quugids =. oe. ee ee Spovted turtles. 2 =. 22 -s2. 26-56 1
Clemmiysansculpla.-22o- os eas = Wood. turtle: 22 Sos. Sia eS oe 7
Clemmys marmorata marmorata___-- Paciic;pond |, turtle. 202 oss 22 2 ee 1
Cuona amboinensis.......-..-.-- Kura: kura box turtle. 2-252... 1
POUR ORVICUIGVUS: nae ae eee European pond turtle.__._._.___- 3
PSYC UT ORR = en Se ee Kretitis! turtlet 2215 vayaeleg since cies 3
MYA UrO Macquarie. 2 soo ae Murray turtle <2 52228 ees es 8
Merrapene carolina eck nse et st Box turtle tigen ope oe eke Many
Terrapene carolina triunguis_______- Three-toed box turtle_____._.____ 3
Terrapene ornata ornata___.-_-_--_- Western box turtle...4...< dst... 2
Terrapene camlina bauri__.-------- Florida, box turtle. -%, 2224. 4.3 2
Malaclemys terrapin__..-...-.------ Diamondback turtle 2222-22522 _- 4
Graptemys geographica___.._--_---- Ma ptiurtlesa a eee aa ees ee 3
Graptemys barbourt......._...---~- Barbour’s:-turtle 2 22 22.2.2. s2abh 7
Graptemys pseudogeographica_____- - False map:turtle. - - + vsennoieces «8 4
Chiaysemys. picta. ent Aes Painted ‘turtle... Stradi 4 33 31
Psuedemys scripta callirostris______- South American red-lined turtle... 8
Pseudemys scripta troostiit__________ Cumberland turtle___+:2s2ss222=2 3
Pseudemys scripta elegans_________- Mobile: turtle... .zeistasseBee 3 12
Pseudemys scripta.ssp__...-..... =< Yellow-bellied turtle-_..___._._-_- 24
Pseudemys floridana__....-_-.-_--- = Florida water turtle.__..____2_2-- 15
Pseudemys rubriventris_._......----- Red-bellied turtle...._....._----- 9

Pseudemys ornatas: 492. satiniale Central American turtle____.__--- 2
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

REPTILES—Continued
CHELONIA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number

Emydidae—Continued

Pseudemys decussata_.-.-.-.------ Cuban water turtle._.__.________ 1

Balaguer UGS ae ee ee ee Indian fresh-water turtle__-_.____- 1
Testudinae:

Gopherus:agassrzt.. 22 USS ee Desert tortoise. 2). Usous_ MONAT ess 1

Testudo-pardalise 221 eS SI Se Leopard’ tortoise:': 22. sees 1

Testudo-elephantina.. 222222222022 Giant Aldabra turtle__.._._.____- 2

Testudo ephipptum.=<.— =~ =-—- 25272 Dunean Island turtle. _i 2-2 L--- 3

Testudo tabulata~ = 3.2 + SEE South American turtle-__________ 4

Testudo wicing_. EY AO Galapagos turtle. _2.2- 2 Le 2022 2
Trionychidae:

Trionys feroz spintfera._ 2-22-28 Eastern soft-shelled turtle_.______ 3

ET CONYCH CT OL ae oe os oe Florida soft-shelled turtle________- 2

UTOnYG WLUNGUISa 24 ae eae African soft-shelled turtle________- 2
Pelomedusidae:

Pelomedusa galeata Vote tee. 12s African water turtle. .._-._-__--- 2

Peluisvos NiGniCan Sa ee eee ee African black mud turtle________- 2

IPOGOCKENMLG UNIS eee ee Amazon spotted turtle_-_.-------- 12
Chelidae:

Chelodina longicollis__._._.--------- Australian side-necked turtle___--_ 3°

Hydromedusa tectifera..-.-.--.----- Small side-necked turtle.______-_- 2

WVfesuclemmys. Qv00Gs === one eee Cee South American gibba turtle_____. &

Phrynops geoffroyana___----------- Geoffroy’s side-necked turtle_---- 1

Phrynops geoffroyana hilarit__.----- Large side-necked turtle.___-__--- 12

(Platemys pIatyucepnglas seas == — = Hlat-headed turtles toe.) 22 eee 11

IBOLT OCHEMYS MOSUL =e South American side-necked turtle. 2

AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA

Amphiumidae:

Amphiuma meanss22 2a ees Congo eel. - 2222-2 =i es eee 6
Ambystomidae:

Ambystoma tigrinum.__.----------- Tigerssalamander- 222 25 Se eee 1
Salamandridae:

Diemictylus pyrrhogaster___.------- Red-bellied or Japanese newt_-_-_-- 14

Notopthalmus viridescens___--------- Red-spotted or common newt----- 11

SALIENTIA

Bufonidae:

Bufo americanus... 50 sul stews American toad 2200/55 .520 eee 2

Bufovblombergit2c 25 ashe we ee ue Foresttoad..._--... cbse 2 eeHe 2

Buformariius S28 Shas sees Tae see Giant: toadiiwscolenste eas sues 4

Bufo paracnemis.__. stud basbindies Rococo foad 2b 22) stele sheen 1

Bufo peltocephalus._----2--------- Cuban toad. 2:s251e ste: sae 7
Pipidae:

Pind- pipe... 2 Salsa ahs Surinam: toad... 22uid=2) ase 29
Leptodactylidae:

Ceratophrys calcarata___----------- Colombian horned frog_-.-------- 2

Ceratophrys Ornalasee a) oe Argentine horned frog__-_--------- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

AMPHIBIANS—Continued

SALIENTIA—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Hylidae:
LEE ORAS GRD ye Green, tree frog... 22525255 Sees 1
nla versicolone ane ae ee Gray treefrog. 5.2 ee 3
Microhylidae:
Microhyla carolinensis__.---------- Narrow-mouthed toad______.-_-- 1
Ranidae:
Ranmanaaspersas. = 2 eS. oes African bull frog 2 eso ae 10
anaicatesbeiangs 222 eS American} bull frog 2. eos eee 1
EONONCLOMIUGNS = sae ee ae Greenifrogvies 2 eo wb oe 2 SS 20
EN OLDEDIENS: 22a eS GOR tee vs Leopard frogs: sat. rei Many
Rhacophoridae:
Hylambates maculatus__..--------- African flash tree frog____.__------ 4
Dendrobatidae:
Dendrobates auratus_._.-.--------- Black poison-arrow frog__.-_-_--- 1
Dendrobates tinctorius._.._-------- Green poison-arrow frog_______--- 1
Dendrobates typographus-_-_--------- Yellow poison-arrow frog_______-- 2
ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Cenobitidae:
Coenobita clypeatus__._...------ andilermit crab. sulevewut svt lekls 35
ARANEAE
Theraphosidae:
Eurypelma hentzii__.--------- PRAT ANGUIR 3.2 25 Se eee ees te es 1
Theridiidae:
Latrodectus mactans__--------- Black-widow,spider_2o2 2225.3: 2o- 1
SCORPIONIDA
Vejovidae:
Vejovis spinigerus_._..-------- Stripe-tailed scorpion.._......------- 1
ORTHOPTERA
Blattidae:
Periplaneta australasiae_..----- Australian cockroach. ---..--.---- Many
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Limnaeidae:
Helisoma trivolvis_...._..------ IRond/snnilg2teoe A Saehit ee lel Many
FISHES
OSTARIOPHYSI
Characidae:
Metynnis rooseveltit__._.._------- Metynniss 7s > est ee 2
Gymnotidae:

Sternarchella schottt__._.._-.--- Atri Gs knit efisty =e ee ee 2
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

FISHES—Continued

OSTARIOPHYSI—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Cyprinidae:
Brachydanto rerto__ ee Zebra danio-fish _.._. -_------ aseaees 14
Barbus everett = 2. 55-28 Clown: barb... 2.3... See eee 1
Tanichthys albonubes..-...---- White Cloud Mountain fish__._______- 6
Electrophoridae:
Electrophorus electricus__.-.---- Electric eel... 2220 25.2. ee 1
Cobitidae:
Acanthophthalmus semicinctus_... Kuhliiloach............2--.----2 2 1
Doradidae:
Acanthodoras spinosissimus___-- Talking catfish -...-.... ._ 2 hee 1
Callichthyidae:
Plecostomus plecostomus___----- Armored catfish _. .- »3inl eos SS eae 2
Corydoras hastatus o.oo ae Corydoras... - 22. =. ....-- S35 eee 2
Corydoras paleatus se saree et Corydoras scavenger catfish__.._.___-_- 1
CYPRINODONTES
Poeciliidae:
Gambusia punctata____-------- ‘Blue gambusia- 20-2222. sea eee 2
Mollienisia latipinna_--..----- Blackmolly22-2.22-20222s00see2 ee 3
Debistes reticulatus 225-2222 Guppy sit -. 22225252 2. es 10
Lebistes reticulatus.....-.----- Flag-tailed guppy____._..=.._- “22a 10
Xtiphophorus maculatus_—_----- Platys:or moonfish.__ 2.22. 50s 23ee i
LABYRINTHICI
Anabantidae:
Trichogaster trichopterus___-_-- -- Blue gourami- _...- 3... 2s Sees 1
Anabas testudineus_.__...----- Climbing perch. :2.s.2:..222. ees +
PERCOMORPHI
Cichlidae:
Haplochromis multicolor____---- Egyptian mouthbreeder-_-_...._..----- 1
Tilapia sparrmant_- 2224282 Js Peacock cichlid._- = - 24 ss ee eae 3
Pterophyllum eimeket__-.------ Angelfish: 222... 222222, 25 25552335 5
PLECTOGNATHI
Lepidosirenidae:
Protopterus annectens__---.---- African: lungfish. - 223555222. 522 =. oe 1
Lepidosiren paradoxa__-------- South American lungfish_-_._---_----- 1
GIRAFFES

During the past 20 years, the National Zoological Park has been
very successful in breeding giraffes and gaur. A summary of both
species 1s presented here, in order that it may be made a part of the
permanent record.

The first giraffes to come to the Zoo were a pair of Nubian giraffes
obtained from the Game Department of the Sudan by Dr. William M.
Mann on the Smithsonian Institution-Chrysler Expedition to East
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 9

Linsang—first one to be exhibited in the Western Hemisphere. Sent to the National
Zoological Park by Lt. Col. Robert Traub, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya.

Snow leopard kitten, 6 weeks old. This is the first of this species born in the Western
Hemisphere. Photographs by Randolph Routt, courtesy of the Washington Evening Star.
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 10

a:

ZB

Indian elephant, 14-year-old male, cep his dental braces devised by Keeper Roger
McDonald to prevent the tips of the tusks from growing together. Photograph by
Francis Routt, courtesy of the Washington Evening Star.

2

Trumpeter swans, on deposit from the Fish and Wildlife Service. Largest of the swan
family, these birds have been saved from extinction in the United States by the careful

protection of the Fish and Wildlife Service. Photograph by Wellner Streets, courtesy of
the Washington Daily News
SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

Africa in 1926. Known as Hi-Boy and Dot, they both succumbed to
a kidney infection, one after a year, the other 3 months later.

There were no more giraffes in the collection until 1937, when the
Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society Expedition to
the Netherlands East Indies stopped in the Sudan on the way home
and acquired four young ones, a pair of dark-spotted and a pair of
light-spotted Nubian giraffes. The dark ones became known as Kitty
and Bob. Bob died in 1956, but Kitty is still alive in the Zoo. The
other pair were named Nicky (after a 10-year-old journalist who had
campaigned for “giraffes for the National Zoo”) and Nageoma, for
National Geographic Magazine. Nicky died in December 1945, and
Nageoma in July 1946.

The breeding record follows:

Nicky and Nageoma

March 4, 1945, female, Helen. Named for granddaughter of Dr. Gilbert Gros-

venor, President, National Geographic Society. Still in Zoo.
Bob and Kitty

January 4, 1945, female, stillborn.

August 22, 1946, female, Twiga. Stillin the Zoo.

October 2, 1948, male, Bedello (named after Walter Bedell Smith, who was
the first visitor to see him). Sent to the Zoo in Fort Worth, Tex., April 18,
1952.

September 25, 1950, female. Sent to Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney, Australia,
January 3, 1952.

December 29, 1952, female, Harriet. Sent to Honolulu Zoo, Hawaii, May 27,
1953.

February 23, 1955, female, Amelia. Gestation period 450 days. Sent to Cats-
kill Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., October 6, 1955.

January 12, 1957, male, Doe. Gestation period 454 days. Still in the Zoo.

Bob and Helen

February 3, 1951, female. Died February 9, 1951.

June 17, 1952, male, Harry. Died December 13, 1952.

Mareh 29, 1954, female, Astrid. Gestation period 450 days. Sent to Catskill
Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., July 29, 1954.

September 16, 1956, male, Thomas. Gestation period 459 days. Died March
28, 1957.

Bob and Twiga

December 22, 1951, male, stillborn.

April 28, 1954, male, Frank. Gestation period 446 days. Sent to Catskill
Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y¥., July 29, 1954.

April 25, 1956, female, Marta. Gestation period 451 days. Sent to Catskill
Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., August 20, 1956; now at “Africa U.S.A.” Boca
Raton, Fla.

A pair of reticulated giraffes about 3 years old were purchased
June 21, 1939. The female died April 24, 1942; the male, Rufus, died
November 13, 1956. They left no offspring.

492520—59—_12
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

GAUR

A pair of gaur were obtained in 1937 from Mysore, India, by the
Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society Expedition to
the East Indies. Their breeding record follows:

March 14, 1940, male. Sent to Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, Philadelphia,

Pa., April 25, 1944.

September 38, 1941, male. Died May 381, 1942.

October 20, 1942, female. Died June 16, 1944.

December 23, 1943, male. Died February 19, 1946.

December 28, 1945, female. Died May 7, 1946.

February 10, 1946, male. Died May 4, 1947.

May 10, 1947, female.*

July 18, 1948, male.”

February 2, 1950, female. Exchanged May 25, 1955.

November 1, 1952, female, offspring of young pair.

August 12,1953, male. Exchanged May 25, 1955.

August 22, 1954, female. Sent to St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis, Mo., April 26, 1956.

June 13, 1955, male. Sent to St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis, Mo., April 26, 1956.

February 12, 1956, male. Still in the Zoo.

March 5, 1957, female. Offspring of young pair. Died March 7, 1957.

March 18, 1958, male. Offspring of young pair. Still in the Zoo.

The high mortality rate is due, in almost every case, to the excitable
temperament of these animals. The old male died on May 26, 1957,
apparently of senility. The old female is still living, but she has not
accepted the young male.

FINANCES

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro-
priated annually under the District of Columbia appropriation act.
The appropriation for the fiscal year 1958 totaled $833,000, which in-
cluded a supplemental appropriation of $49,000. This was an in-
crease of $113,000 over fiscal year 1957. The increase consisted of
$49,000 for the conversion of keeper positions; $36,300, contributions
to the Civil Service Retirement Fund; $22,595 to establish seven new
positions, and $5,105 to cover costs of reallocations. Of the $833,000
appropriated, $619,165 was for salaries, leaving a balance of $213,835
for the operation of the Zoo. Included in this balance were major
operational expenditures amounting to $177,513, consisting of $65,000
for animal food; $20,300 for fuel for heating; $29,325 for materials,
building construction and repair; $34,218 for Civil Service Retire-
ment Fund; $12,750 for purchase of animals; $8,900 for electricity ;
$5,000 for veterinarian equipment and supplies; and $2,000 for Fed-
eral Employees Group Life Insurance. The balance of $35,872 in
operation funds was expended for other items including freight, tele-

1 Kept at N. Z. P. for breeding ; referred to hereafter as young pair.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 169

phone, telegraph, and postal services, sundry supplies, uniforms, gaso-
line, road repair, equipment replacement, and purchase of new equip-
ment.

PERSONNEL

After serving as Acting Director for 17 months, Dr. Theodore H.
Reed was named Director on March 12, 1958. At the same time, J.
Lear Grimmer, who had been Assistant Director, was named Asso-
ciate Director.

James F. Wright, V.M.D., a graduate of the University of Penn-
sylvania, was appointed to fill the position of veterinarian. He comes
to the Zoo with experience in private veterinary practice as well as
service with the Department of Agriculture’s Plum Island Animal
Disease Laboratory, in Long Island, N.Y. He has a makeshift hos-
pital in the Park, which it is hoped may some day be replaced with a
more modern structure. His report for the year may be found on
pages 171-174.

As of the beginning of the fiscal year, the animal keepers were con-
verted from the GS classification to Wage Board. They are now on
a pay level comparable with other skilled trades, such as carpenters
and plumbers. It is believed that the present starting wage will at-
tract good men and that the salary will induce them to stay in the Zoo.

There are 144 authorized positions at the Zoo, divided as follows:
Administrative office 13, an increase of one property and supply
clerk; animal department 53 (48 keepers, cook, exterminator, 2 labor-
ers, and an increase of 1 storekeeper) ; police 23, an increase of 2;
mechanical department 50, an increase of 2 laborers and 1 store-
keeper; grounds department 5.

There has been a reorganization in the animal department. Ralph
Norris is now head keeper and Malcolm Davis, who has had 30 years
experience in the Zoo, is now associate head keeper. William Widman
is senior keeper in the bird division, Charles Thomas in the division of
large mammals, Bert Barker in the division of small mammals, and
Mario DePrato in the reptile division. In the police department three
men were promoted to the rank of Sergeant: Donald B. Bell, Earl A.
King, and Aubrey L. Canter. In the mechanical shop, William G.
Modena was made assistant superintendent of maintenance and
construction.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons all
over the world who write for information regarding animals. From
every part of this country citizens write to the Zoo as a national insti-
tution. Telephone calls come in constantly, asking for identification of
animals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the office as
well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking information.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Because of the ever-increasing demand for information concerning
the care of animals in captivity, a series of 11 mimeographed leaflets
has been written covering the care and feeding of the various animal
families, ranging from invertebrates to primates. The leaflets are
used to supplement correspondence and telephone inquiries on pet
care and have proved successful in providing better service to the
public.

The Associate Director gave five 4-hour sessions of training to six
senior Boy and Girl Scouts. These youngsters are now qualified to
guide troops of younger Scouts when they visit the Zoo.

The Director spoke before 6 civic clubs, 2 school groups, and 5 church
groups; he also appeared on a television program and was interviewed
cnaradio program. He wascoauthor, with Dr. Samuel W. Thompson,
of “Toxoplasmosis in a Swamp Wallaby,” published in the Journal of
the American Veterinary Medical Association, December 15, 1957.

Malcolm Davis, associate head keeper, spoke before four civic clubs
on “Penguins and Antarctica” and also showed slides to a school group.
He has contributed articles and book reviews to All-Pets Magazine,
the Audubon Magazine, the American Racing Pigeon News, the
Aviculturist’s Gazette, the Sentinel, and the Journal of Mammalogy.
A group of rocky islands off Budd Coast, Antarctica, has been named
Davis Islets in recognition of a biological survey made there by Mr.
Davis in 1948 when he went to the South Pole with the U.S. Navy
Expedition.

Mario DePrato made a collecting trip in the Dismal Swamp, Va.,
bringing back a number of interesting reptiles for the Zoo. William A.
Xanten, Jr., a keeper in the reptile house, contributed a number of
snakes and turtles obtained while he was on vacation in Florida.

William Widman, senior keeper in the birdhouse, spent 2 weeks in
the Philadelphia Zoological Park, studying methods practiced there;
and Bernard Gallagher, keeper in the small-mammals division, spent
a week of official time in the Detroit Zoo, working and observing.

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but
exceptions were made for groups of physically handicapped children
who visited the Zoo. One group was from the District of Columbia
Health School, whose children were brought by the Kiwanis Club,
and another from the Silver Spring Intermediate School. Six chil-
dren from the Pre-School! for the Blind, Alexandria, Va., were brought
by the Lions Club and were allowed to feel small animals and harmless
reptiles. ‘The District of Columbia Society for Crippled Children
brought a group of 30. In all cases police and keepers were assigned
to assist in showing the young students the exhibits.

Conducted tours were also given to a group of 211 biology students
and 6 faculty members of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Lynch-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 71

burg, Va., and to 40 boys and girls who were winners in the annual
Westinghouse Science Talent Search.

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as
such, every effort is made to study the animals and to improve their
health, housing, and diet in any way possible.

VETERINARIAN’S REPORT

One of the most important activities of the veterinary department
has been the application of the projectile type of syringe as an ad-
junct to therapy. The original work on this equipment was done
at the University of Georgia and the Georgia Fish and Game Com-
mission. They produced a temporary paralysis in wild deer, using
nicotine alkaloid either alone or in combination with thiopental so-
dium. An attempt was made to adapt this method to the zoological
collection, but met with very little success except in deer. The ap-
paratus is used with little disturbance to animals in their captive
habitat. Its most effective use is in the administration of antibiotics,
antiserums, ataraxics (sedatives, narcotics, tranquilizers), and vac-
cines. With this type of therapy it is not necessary to rope, man-
handle, trap, cage, or exhaust either animals or keepers to provide
parenteral medication. It is successfully used both inside and outside
of buildings and in small lots and large paddocks. As the operator
seldom needs other help, considerable saving in man-hours and an-
imals results. The following species have been successfully treated
with this projectile type of syringe: elk, zebra, yak, tiger, pygmy
hippopotamus, British Park bull, Saiga antelope, camel, elephant,
kangaroo, bear, deer, Nile hippopotamus, and giraffe. The full de-
tails of these treatments are contained in a paper to be published
later.

A severe case of necrotic stomatitis developed in the Zoo’s bull elk
during the winter, which prevented him from eating the usual rations.
Special diet and the use of the projectile syringe are credited with
effecting a cure. He is now in excellent health.

The youngest female giraffe was successfully treated with the pro-
jectile syringe method for bowel impaction and inappetence of 7 days’
duration. Lacking this new equipment, it is doubtful that this an-
imal could have been treated at all.

During the year a major dietary change was instituted by the
Associate Director and was enthusiastically supported by the entire
animal department. The diets for the carnivores and omnivores were
patterned after those developed by the Philadelphia Zoological Park
and in use successfully by that organization since 1935. It is too
early to draw definite conclusions, but it is felt that these changes
have already benefited the animal colonies by increased reproduction
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

and improved general condition. The technical aspects of the above
diets have been published by the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.

A new herbivorous diet was developed by the animal department
staff with gratifying results.

The feed for the reptile division is still being obtained from various
governmental institutions in the area. Bacteriological isolations
from several large snakes lost during the past year indicated that
feed rodents may be carriers of reptilian pathogens. Specifically,
several isolations of Paracolobactrum arizonae were made from me-
dium-sized boas and pythons whose only source of infection could
have been feed rats. This particular organism is nonpathogenic to
rodents, but it will produce lesions in cold-blooded animals such as
lizards and snakes. At the present time the pathogenicity of this
particular organism is being investigated. At this writing isolations
of this organism have been made from a regal python, an African
python, a western diamondback rattlesnake, and the drain of the
cage inhabited by the first two snakes. This problem happens to
be the most interesting of several in the reptile division. Others are
the high percentage of granulomatous lesions found in the organs
of reptiles and the persistent remissions and exacerbations of the
necrotizing lesions commonly known as “mouth rot.”

In January 1958, the king cobra succumbed after less than a year
and a half in the collection. At the time of death this individual
had attained a length of 11 feet 914 inches and a weight of 144%
pounds. The snake had been off its feed for almost 3 months, and
no amount of coaxing could entice it to eat. Bacteriological cultures
were negative for pathogens, but microscopic sections revealed gran-
ulomatous lesions in many internal organs. Grossly these lesions
showed as white-spotted areas, especially noticeable in the liver. The
small intestine contained many cestodes which seemed to be causing
the snake no apparent distress.

One Salmonella typhimurium was isolated from a 9-foot regal
python with ulcerative and necrotic enteritis. It was interesting to
note that this individual was taken from the same cage inhabited by
those snakes from which two of the aforementioned arizonae isolations
were made. From at least one snake in this same cage an isolation of
Mycobacterium thamnopheos has been made. Within a period of less
than 2 months 2 regal pythons, 1 African python, 2 anacondas, and
2 emperor boas were lost from this cage.

In November 1957, 8 quokkas (Setonix brachyurus) were received
from Perth, Australia, all of which seemed to be in good condition.
However, a week after their arrival, one quokka was found dead
(fighting). From this necropsy these animals were found to be har-
boring large numbers of Austrostrongylus minutus and smaller num-
SECRETARY'S REPORT WS

bers of Dipetalonema annulipapillata. Other than these parasites, no
gross lesions were recognized in this individual. The remaining ani-
mals were given antibiotics and oral anthelmintics (piperazine). A
short time later a second quokka died from an intestinal intussuscep-
tion. It was then noticed that most of the remaining animals were
exhibiting exfoliative type of skin lesions, scrapings from which were
negative. Necropsy findings on another animal dying at this time
were grossly negative, except for the previously mentioned para-
sitism.

Between February and late May there began a progressive posterior
paralysis of the remaining five quokkas. The skin trouble had vir-
tually disappeared and the appetites remained good although some-
times variable. In addition to the vitamin and mineral supplements
which these animals had been receiving for several months, injectable
forms of vitamin E were administered. During this time all recom-
mended diets had been offered and eaten. Despite the treatments and
nutritional changes the paralysis progressed. Two of the animals
were euthanized and the remaining ones died. Necropsies were done
at the National Institutes of Health and the Armed Forces Institute
of Pathology. As yet the preliminary reports from these agencies
have shed no light on this peculiar and perplexing syndrome.

Eight albatrosses were received in December 1957 from U.S. Naval
Installation at Midway Island. Four were black-footed and four
were Laysan albatrosses. All seemed to be adults in good condition,
but none would eat voluntarily. Forced feeding with trout and smelt
fortified with vitamin capsules was begun, but in 2 weeks a Laysan
died. None of the birds was self-feeding at this time and several
were noticeably weaker. First necropsy findings were essentially
negative except that very large numbers of Zetrabothrium cestodes
were found in the small intestine.

Before the end of January three Laysan and two black-footed birds
had been lost from terminal aspiration pneumonia, probably incurred
through regurgitation of their forced feedings. Weakness continued
to be prominent along with regurgitation of feedings. In February
two more black-footed birds died, one of which was found to have
shght pulmonary aspergillosis. The remaining bird was removed to
another building with its own water tank, where it was felt that the
atmosphere would be more humid. This individual died late in
March with lipid pneumonia, probably from the oil on the force-fed
fish.

After losing all eight birds it was evident that the necropsy find-
ings were secondary, but what the primary condition had been was
not known. Recently it was learned that several albatrosses were
being successfully kept at Pennsylvania State University by adding
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

salt (NaCl) to their diet. Apparently these birds secrete sodium
chloride in amounts that require heavy dietary supplementation. In
reviewing the Zoo’s cases it was noted that the symptoms were con-
sistent with salt depletion.

The Zoo’s pair of gorillas developed an intestinal malady caused
by a heavy infestation with Balantidiwm coli. Fortunately this con-
dition was quickly checked by daily oral administration of carbasone.

Of the 12 Adelie penguins received in February, 4 remain and
seem to be in good health. Deaths in this group were caused by
aspergillosis as in the past. The cooperative aspergillosis research
program with these birds conducted by Dr. William Sladen of Johns
Hopkins University and Dr. C. Herman of Fish and Wildlife Service
continued. A new antifungal drug was tried this year for the first
time with some degree of success.

The pangolin (Manis pentadactyla) received in February from
Formosa died in mid-June from grossly undetermined causes. Micro-
scopic findings have not been reported as yet.

Pigeons caught in the Park were sent to Major Thompson at the
Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Denver, Colo., for a toxoplasmosis
incidence survey, results of which indicate small probability of a res-
ervoir in these birds.

Mechanical injury to the tail of the male cheetah necessitated sur-
gical removal of the terminal 3 inches of the appendage. The com-
bination of ataraxics and short-acting barbiturates proved a desirable
anesthetic in this case, and long-acting antibiotics obtained a favor-
able outcome.

Bacteriological isolations, over 260 in all, were performed by Dr.
Francis R. Lucas of Centreville, Md. Dr. Lucas also assisted with
histopathological sections, blood analyses, and virus isolation
attempts.

Dr. Thomas Peery of the George Washington University has as-
sisted the Zoo with histopathological slides and pathological inter-
pretations. Identification of endoparasites was supplied by Mr.
McIntosh and Mrs. Chitwood of the Department of Agriculture.

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past 6 years:

Mortality, fiscal year 1958 Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years
Deaths) (2 Attrition UO hoa eee eee eee ee 672
Mammal sas 22s 22a 102 14 lO 54a ees a os ee 648
Birds = oes ene ase i81 34 1OSDE Ea eck oe ee 735
Reptiles= =. ee eee 142 77 OSG Heese ee 618
S| 19 Seek ee een tee 549
Total J. aveer le 425 125 OSS eee! oboe eee 550

1 Attrition is term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and handling after accession
at the Zoo, or before an animal can adapt to cage habitation within the collection.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 175

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individ-
uals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result the
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and in
turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it does
not need.

Special acknowledgment is due Howard Fyfe, United States Dis-
patch Agent in New York City, and Stephen EK. Lato, Dispatch Agent
in San Francisco. They are frequently called upon to clear shipments
of animals coming from abroad, often at great personal inconvenience.
The animals have been forwarded to Washington without the loss of a
single individual.

The food subsidies section, D.C. Department of Food Services, gave
3,400 pounds of wheat flour not salvageabie for human consumption.
The U.S. Soldiers Home gave 94 sacks of hard wheat flour and 30
sacks of soft wheat flour. ‘The poultry division of the Department of
Agriculture gave several thousand day-old chicks, which are good
food for many young animals. The National Institutes of Health co-
operated in many ways, helping with postmortems, giving valuable
advice, and donating surplus laboratory animals, some of which were
exhibited and some used as food. Laboratory animals that had served
their purpose were also donated by the Army Medical Center and the
Navy Medical Center.

In August 1957, owing to an outbreak of botulism among the North
American waterfowl, it became necessary to drain and clean the ponds.
Both the District of Columbia Fire Department and the District Sani-
tation Department cooperated in this task, lending the Zoo hoses and
other equipment.

Several times during the year the National Zoological Park has lent
various small native animals to National Capital Park naturalists for
exhibition at special programs. The Zoo has received aid and assist-
ance in exhibition, and several species, from this organization.

In December 1957 eight male deer were lent to the Christmas Pag-
eant of Peace, held annually on the Ellipse grounds in Washington.

VISITORS

Attendance at the Zoo this year reached a total of 4,028,620. In
general this figure is based on estimates rather than actual counts.
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Estimated number of visitors in fiscal year 1958

uri GUO Src) eee eee ae 5665;720) January, (L958) = aes sme 123, 900
BAPUR DAIS Ge eco Men WN ray ae le 425 700 Hepruary 2 2 eee eee 49, 225
Septemberso 22 en Se eases A03s4 00) Vilar clisys 102: oes tek eee eae 339, 500
Octoberac 22326 sees eas S2GsO50 Aprile: 20e oS Sve ae 583, 915
November 22 2322 Svs at 197 SOOWNay te. UL Se ied eee 447, 300
Decembersw teas se 164;\050)| dunes 42 222.2. 25 sct eee 399, 350

Motels) eee 4, 028, 620

Number of bus groups

Locality Number| Number Locality Number | Number

of groups} in groups of groupsjin groups

Alabama sa se 5" 31 1, 437 || Minnesota_______-_ 3 107
Arkansages 2 1 36 || Mississippi-_------- 9 363
Californigs oes 1 (Sie ie Montanaeeen aes 1 38
Connecticut___-_-__- 4 244 || Nebraska_______-- 2 188
Delawares-222.22. 11 472 || New Hampshire_-- 2 at
District of Colum- New Jersey _------ 16 1, 231
bigeators sau 68 2,867 || New York_._____— 55 8, 271
Bloridav 2). 3.2 ast 16 3, 665 || North Carolina____ 250 13, 341
Georgia eee sone 52 102035) Hi@hig 222th seas 30 1, 541
llinoissess e222. 5 224 || Pennsylvania__-_-_- 174 12, 306
indianaseee sea 9 374 || Rhode Island_---_- 1 108
Kansasess sae sees 1 25 || South Carolina____ 55 2, 567
Kentucky 2222253 2 10 477 || Tennessee... .---- 56 2, 759
ouisianags.2-2 2.22 2 LOW GWexdas (urns eee 2 833
Maine 222352. ae 9 49G o1| SU SANs ee oe es 3 35
Maryland == $22 222 380 31, 297 || West Virginia --__-_ 62 4, 554
Massachusetts_____ Lak 394 || Wisconsin- ~~ -_---- 1 442
Michigane ofl o2: 4 574 ee eee
otsls ss yee 1,337 | 99, 515

@anada eis t20 eo 1} O02 WhPerUiremeaee west see 1 51
(Cj shirt ee seen eee 1 18 || Puerto Rico_____-- 1 140
Menmarke 2.22.28" 4 44 || Sweden_________-- 2 19
Formosa) es) san. 1 5a Spain’ 4) Fs ole ee. 1 20
Japan rete sFo 1 37 || Foreign Exchange

Mexico 222222 2s 2 45 students__....-- 1 800
INOLWAY esos eee 14 341 ————
Rakistaness=ee ae 1 38 Rotale 2 Se 31 1, 650

About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
SECRETARY’S REPORT THT

Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by
States of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia,
Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from
other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1958 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Maryland) tis ie ee SOsoe Noises ee aos tes Se eee 0.7
District of Columbigs=22- == =2— 2175) (Souths Carolinas =222 22 — 5-22 iee2 0.7
Wirginta, 2 2a 8 oo ee JOT oy PMiichiga ni sat oets See Se 0.7
Pennsylvania esos ae 4507); Mennesse@) 222223 oe 0. 6
ING Wan OTs Kee ee ree ee 2 Gal OKA Gy ta een ews tek a ee ea 0.6
NorthiCarolimeas 22222 suse 2e222> PASTA CRAY OY if ea lah oe page Maa al pg ane 0.5
ING Wid CLSCY oan Ss er Le GheinGianny 22 fovea ee eee 0. 4
OT Fee errr ep a PAE 1257 |(Delawares coe nj) oe Dae eee 0. 4
WG VALI a 2a | ViinneSotay ea ee 0.3
SOT es eee ene Se ee eee LS af We SWaASCONSIN, = 22 seme ss SU ete 0.3
Massachusetts: 220225222222 223 OF Sn ientueky. ees 2 ee See ee 0.3
Californian == ee eee 0.8
Connecticutpas Se ew eae 0. 8 94. 0

The remaining 6 percent came from other States, Alaska, Bahamas,
Belgium, British Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England,
Germany, Guatemala, Hawaii, Honduras, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New
Brunswick, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Okinawa, Philippine
Islands, Saskatchewan, and the West Indies.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia,
and foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about
22 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign coun-
tries; and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent
not less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries.

Parking spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the
bus parking place is utilized, and 969 cars when it is not used.

GROUNDS, BUILDINGS, AND ENCLOSURES

During the year there were extensive replacements, remodeling, and
repairs to paddocks, cages, and water lines. Roofs were repaired
and roads and sidewalks patched.

Two zebra paddocks were enlarged, and the old cookhouse was
remodeled and refurbished to facilitate the new method of preparing
foods. A special experimental cage was constructed behind the bird
house for the secluded study of species of birds that do not adapt
themselves well to exhibition.

A stationary air compressor has been installed in the shop area.

The basement space under the big tortoises’ enclosure in the reptile
house was opened up and made into a storage room. An insect-rais-
ing room was constructed in the basement of the reptile house, and
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the animal department now has centralized and consolidated their
mealworm raising.

A new map of the National Zoological Park, showing the location
of all buildings and exhibits, was prepared, and copies of it, suitably
framed, have been placed at various locations throughout the Park.

Following the tragic death of a little girl who was mauled by a
lion in the Zoo on May 16, 1958, a study was begun to eliminate any
danger points in the buildings and grounds. Wire mesh has been
placed on some of the guard rails, and further precautions will be
taken when the report of an independent committee investigating
safety measures has been completed. The National Zoological Park
has always had a fine record of safety: since 1908, when records were
first kept of the number of annual visitors, approximately 115,000,000
people have visited the Zoo without one instance of serious injury.
The accident in May resulted in the first fatality.

The work of the gardener’s force has been mainly that of removing
dead trees, which are a menace to both animals and visitors, and
replacing them with young trees. The animal department is furnished
with forage which is very beneficial for animals. Heavy logs for the
big cats to climb, perches and sawed hollow logs for small mammals,
gnawing logs for rodents, and perches for birds are supplied on de-
mand, and tropical plants for indoor cages and the buildings are
supplied and cared for.

The accumulation of trash is still a major problem, although the
installation of larger trash receptacles and a number of “litter-bug”
signs posted at strategic spots have helped in keeping the Park
presentable.

With the increase in the number of visitors, the work of the police
in maintaining order and protecting the public and the animals is
constantly growing. New police officers have been authorized for next
year, and temporary men are appointed for the summer months, but
the force is still inadequate. The number of visitors who stopped at
police headquarters to ask for information or to receive first aid was
7,000.

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE

Owing to lack of appropriated funds, no major improvements were
undertaken during the fiscal year. The old buildings continue to
deteriorate, and even the newest exhibition building is now 21 years old
and needs painting and repairs. Ten enclosures, including the pools
for exhibition of aquatic mammals, have been abandoned for nearly
11 years. It is hoped that in the near future funds will be appropri-
ated for the following badly needed new construction and improve-
ments:
SECRETARY’S REPORT 179

Buildings.—A building to house antelopes and other hoofed animals
that require a heated building. The present structure, built in 1898 for
$3,500, is inadequate, dimly lighted, and poorly ventilated. ‘The build-
ing houses a miscellaneous collection of cats, kangaroos, gaur, anoas,
and others. The Zoo has made it a policy not to purchase or accept
antelopes because of the lack of housing for them.

A new administration building to replace the 153-year-old historic
landmark, which is still in use as an office building but is not well
adapted for the purpose. Termites destroyed the photographic file
last year, and most of the Zoo library has now been moved to the
second floor of the building to postpone the day when the invaders will
attack this valuable collection of scientific books. A thorough exami-
nation of the office was made by the District of Columbia Department
of Buildings and Grounds, which recommended that unless extensive
repairs are undertaken immediately, the building be condemned as
unsafe.

A hospital, which will also serve as a fireproof receiving station for
animals shipped in, for quarantining them when necessary, and with
facilities for caring for those in ill health. This building should also
contain an office and a laboratory for the veterinarian. There is no
structure within the National Zoological Park suitable for conversion
into an animal hospital. The building now in use is an ancient stone
house, formerly used as a hay barn and storage shed, which was
hastily cleaned out and sketchily furnished at the time the veterinarian
was appointed in 1955.

E'nclosures.—Enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and
nutrias, which cannot be adequately cared for or exhibited under exist-
ing conditions.

New paddocks for the exhibition of such animals as deer, sheep,
goats, and other hoofed animals, to provide for the exhibition of a
greater assortment of these attractive and valuable animals.

Installations.—Extensive remodeling of some of the buildings is
needed to bring them up to date with the latest techniques of zoological
exhibits and make them more pleasing esthetically for the visitors and
ecologically for the animals.

Respectfully submitted.

Tueropore H. Resp, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958.

SCIENTISTS, STUDENTS, AND OBSERVERS

Following is the list of 48 scientists, students, and observers who
visited the island last year and stayed for several days, in order to
conduct scientific research or observe the wildlife of the area:

Name
Alexander, Dr. T.,
University of Miami, Fla.
Anderson, Eugene,
Santa Monica, Calif.
Bartel, Mr. and Mrs. James,
Pomona, Calif.
Boyden, Dr. Alan,
Rutgers University, N.J.
Brooks, Dr. Robert,
Williams College,
Mass.
Brown, Mr. and Mrs. W. L.,
Toronto, Canada.
Bruno, Kent,
Ohio State University.
Buren, Dr. William F.,

Williamstown,

Public Health Service, El Paso, Tex.

Chickering, Dr. A. M.,
Cambridge, Mass.
Cox, George,
University of Illinois.

Enders, Dr. Robert K.,
Swarthmore College.
Fast, Arthur,
Arlington, Va.
Groner, Miss Dorothy,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Hartman, Dr. Frank,
Ohio State University.
Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.,
Washington, D.C.
Hughes-Schrader, Dr. Sally,
Columbia University.

180

Principal interest
Tropical research.

Bird observation.

Wildlife photography and
bird observation.

Studies in comparative
serology.

Bird observation.

Bird watching and bird
photography.
Assistant to Dr. Hartman.

Study of ants.
Study of spiders.

Preparatory visit to arrange research
on energy requirements of tropical
birds.

Study of mammals and vegetation of
the island.

Bird study and observation.

Wildlife photography and bird obser-
vation.

Muscle studies of birds and adrenal
gland.

Science writer.

Insect cytology.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 181

Name
Johnson, Dr. M.,
Rutgers University, N.J.
Keddy, Dr. and Mrs. J. L.,
Smithsonian Institution.
Kendeigh, S. Charles,
University of Illinois.

Kessler, Dietrich,
University of Wisconsin.
Klingener, David,
Swarthmore College.
Loomis, Mr. and Mrs. H. F.,
Miami, Fla.
Pearson, Dr. Paul,
Rutgers University, N.J.
Prescott, G. W.,
Michigan State University.
Snow, Dr. David,
New York Zoological Society.
Snyder, Miss Dorothy,
Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass
Stultz, Mr. and Mrs. O. M.,
El Monte, Calif.
Taabor, Dr. Henry J.,
San Francisco, Calif.
Usinger, Dr. R. L.,
University of California.

Walch, Miss Carolyn,
Johns Hopkins University.
Weber, Dr. Neal A.,
Swarthmore College.
Weil, Mrs. Gertrude W.,
University of California
Weil, John,
University of California

Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. Alexander,

Washington, D.C.
Woodring, Dr. W. P.,
Washington, D.C.

Wyse, Gordon B.,
Swarthmore College.

Principal interest

Research on apical meristems of tropi-
cal woody plants.

Inspection of facilities and wildlife
observation.

Preparatory visit to arrange research
on energy requirements of tropical
birds.

Wildlife observation.

Research on fungus-growing ants and
their fungi.
Collection of millipeds.

Studies in comparative serology.

Supplementary collections of plank-
ton from Gatun Lake.
Bird observation.

Bird observation.

Wildlife photography and bird obser-
vation.

Wildlife observation and collection of
plants and insects.

Main interest is ectoparasites, espe-
cially bedbugs and polyctenids on
birds and bats.

Wildlife observation.

Research on fungus-growing ants and
their fungi.
Wildlife observation.

Wildlife observation.
Bird observation.

The stratigraphic relations of fossil-
iferous beds of early Tertiary age in
the Gatun Lake area near Barro
Colorado Island.

Wildlife observation.

Research and observations were also conducted by some 75 other
individuals who spent one day and night on the island.

VISITORS

Approximately 570 visitors were permitted to visit the island for
the day. Most of them came on Tuesdays and Saturdays, when they
were conducted on guided tours through the jungle.
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

RAINFALL

During the dry season (January through April) of the calendar
year 1957, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell during 20 days (83 hours)
and amounted to 1.20 inches, as compared to 12.53 inches during 1956.
During the wet season of 1957 (May through December), rains of
0.01 inch or more fell on 176 days (647 hours) and amounted to 96.77
inches, as compared to 101.42 inches during 1956. Total rainfall for

TABLE 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

Year Total Station Year Total Station
inches average inches average
NO2b iS see SO Fs B53 7 fon ane ae ee 194720 ease 111. 10 108. 55
1OZ6e 22 ee eee 118. 22 lSs56) ||P 9452 eeeeee= 120. 29 109. 20
US Ay fees Se 116. 36 WAG Se ||) GS4. eee 111. 96 109. 30
WO2S55 Secon 101. 52 Va WAS AS) Meee) is) 120. 42 109. 84
O20 8 = soa 87. 84 OG: 565 194022245223 87. 38 108. 81
1OZO SE Ss aee ee (6S 57 OMe Shs | al 4: (poser a eee 77. 92 107. 49
LOS sae soe 123. 30 104169" |} 194822222 222 83. 16 106. 43
MOS Zits Bee aa LS 02 NOS a765l| 1949 bee ee 114, 86 106. 76
lQ33ee =e a 161. 73 O57 32a|| 195022222 ee 114. 51 107. 07
OSA we UU ke 122. 42 LOPOL8 || UO Slee ee 112. 72 107. 28
NOS b seen ee ae 143. 42 ORS a 9522 eae eee = 97. 68 106. 94
NWO3G8= 222i % 93. 88 LOSVOS | 1O53s2 see oe 104. 97 106. 87
NOS Tue Le 124.13 LOSS: || 9 54a 105. 68 106. 82
LOSS eeeee 117. 09 110. 62 | UG ates aes ee 114, 42 107. 09
1959S ssaae= 115. 47 LON94 ||) 195652 22-252— 114. 05 107. 30
MOA QBs Seo 86. 51 1O9N43 7 Loo vs2s eeeee 97. 97 106. 98
TOA eA Gee teen 91. 82 108. 41

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1956 and 1957 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches)

Total Years 1957 Aeccumu-
Month __| Station of excess OF lated
average | record | deficiency | excess or

1956 1957 deficiency
DONUT YES eS ae Pas ES §. 57 0.55 2.14 Se —1.58 —1. 58
Webrbary acess cee a et RS 2.11 0. 67 1.22 82 —0. 65 —2. 23
Mi On Ces ced sae oe ea ee eee 2.2, 0.02 1.15 82 —1.18 —3. 36
SADIE oe ae oe Oe es he Se ee 2.61 0.05 2.94 83 —2.89 —6.25
Mia yio 7 2 o5k ibs ea ee RA ee A 16. 55 6. 37 10. 87 33 —4. 50 —10. 75
JUNC Se Fase ee ae ree eee 6. 85 5.97 10. 95 33 —4. 98 —15. 73
UU Laser se er re en ne aw oa 19.55 | 10.86 11.78 33 —0. 92 —16. 65
JA etis tes eS oa SD EEO, Pe ee Sone tes SIE 9.48 | 21.90 12. 48 33 +9. 42 7. 23
Septem her-22222-- 222-4 ee ee 11.27 | 12.40 10. 04 33 +2. 36 —4, 87
LOX G0) 013) eens ee eee ee es 18.64 | 17.22 14. 00 33 +3. 22 —1.65
INovember 22222222 se eee eee es 12.37 | 17.96 18. 79 33 —0. 83 —2. 48
IDYeYols\ nel o}:) Pee eee ees Se ee ee 6. 81 4.09 10. 62 33 —6. 53 —9. 01
Viear ss tau cet tee Boe ee eae 114.05 | 97.97 10608) |'f.--2 4S) <2 ce ee —9. 01
ID TY{SCOSON as ccc aaa ok aoe ae 12.53 1.20 Tb east oboe Seccceeeses —6. 25

Wret (season: 2220-2. 2 =~ 522 ets Ea 101.52 | 96.77 OO.bSh isi eA Ae Ee es —2. 76

SECRETARY'S REPORT 183

the year was 97.97 inches. During 33 years of record the wettest year
was 1935 with 148.42 inches, and the driest year was 1930, with
only 76.57 inches. March was the driest month of 1957 (0.02 inch)
and August the wettest (21.90 inches). The maximum records for
short periods were: 5 minutes 1.30 inches; 10 minutes 1.65 inches;
1 hour 4.11 inches; 2 hours 4.81 inches; 24 hours 10.48 inches.

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS

Special attention was paid during the year to the improvement and
expansion of existing facilities.

The library on the island was greatly enlarged and altered and was
moved to the lower floor of the new building to make it more accessible
and provide space for improved arrangement of books. A great many
new books and journals have been received, more will be added, and
many old books and journals have been bound or rebound. A
temporary librarian was engaged to catalog the whole collection,
which should make it much more useful to visiting scientists and stu-
dents. Air-conditioning was installed in the new library room in
order to preserve the books and to provide greater comfort for persons
using the library facilities.

Two large aviaries and many smaller cages were built, and many
species of Panamanian birds are now being kept in captivity on the
island for experimental and observational purposes. New insect
cages and vivaria have been ordered. Eight hygrothermographs
were ordered making it possible to keep extensive records of tempera-
ture and humidity conditions in different parts of the island. An
Ampex 201 sound recorder, with accessories, and a Kodak K-100 turret
camera were bought. A portable canvas blind was constructed for use
in the field; and various minor items of trapping and laboratory
equipment, including mist nets, an ultraviolet lamp, new dissecting
kits, and thermometers were also purchased.

A new 30-hp. Mercury outboard motor was bought to provide a
means of rapid communication with the mainland in case of emergen-
cies and also to facilitate fieldwork in the more remote regions of
Gatun Lake and the Chagres River. A 4-hp. Dragonfly air-drive
outboard motor was purchased to facilitate research work along the
shoreline of the island and the adjacent mainland. Large tents, cots,
and gasoline stoves were also obtained and will be available to scien-
tists and students wishing to camp for a few days on the far side of
the island.

Many new items of office equipment, including two new typewriters,
lamps, desks, tables, and chairs were purchased for use in the Balboa
office at Diablo Heights and in the laboratory and library on the island.

492520—59 18
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

A reinforced 12,000-gallon concrete water tank was built back of the
old laboratory. This will assure a steady water supply for the ex-
panding needs of the station.

Barbour House was provided with new toilet and shower facilities,
additional dry-closet space, and a concrete septic tank. 'The old Zetek
House was divided into two sections, one of which is being used as
living quarters and the other as a storeroom and office. A new Cater-
pillar generator was installed on the island and has greatly improved
the electricity situation.

Other routine repair and maintenance activities included the re-
painting of the outside and inside of all the station buildings, small
repairs to the gasoline winch engine, rebuilding the dock on the island,
rebuilding the Frijoles dock site, and repairing the trackway from the
Frijoles railroad station to the dock.

The labor situation on the island has been greatly improved by the
hiring of three additional temporary laborers, and another office assist-
ant was engaged to take care of increased office work in Balboa and

on the island.
OTHER ACTIVITIES

A program was initiated to encourage promising young scientists
to come to the Canal Zone Biological Area to conduct special research
projects. The first of these temporary assistants was C. F. Bennett,
Jr., of the Department of Geography at the University of California at
Los Angeles, who is studying temperature and humidity gradients in
the forest during the rainy season.

The National Science Foundation has provided financial support
for two research projects to be conducted or supervised by the Resident
Naturalist. The first will be a 3-year study of the behavior and evolu-
tion of certain neotropical birds, and the second will be a 6-month
study of certain behavior patterns of sphingid and saturniid moths.
This program will be carried out by a research assistant, Dr. A. D.
Blest, of University College, London.

PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS

As it seems probable that there will be an increasing number of
scientists and students coming to the Canal Zone Biological Area in
future years, remaining for longer periods of time and bringing their
families with them, somewhat more comfortable and more private
living quarters are urgently required.

It is planned to remodel the second floor of the old laboratory build-
ing, to make available separate rooms and additional washing and
toilet facilities. Chapman House is in a very bad state of repair, hav-
ing been heavily infested with termites in previous years and should
SECRETARY’S REPORT 185

be remodeled or replaced to provide more private living quarters and
more work space.

Because the problem of storing materials on the island is becoming
acute, it is planned to build a separate storage shed.

Plans for relocating the island dock have been abandoned, as there
is no convenient alternative site available where the silting problem
would not be equally serious. It has been decided, therefore, to have
the old channel beside the present dock redredged, and arrangements
for this work have already been made.

It is also planned to replace the old winch as well as the launch U.S.
Moon, which is beginning to show signs of deterioration.

In connection with the research projects of the station staff, more
facilities for keeping animals in captivity and conducting experi-
mental work under suitable conditions will be constructed.

Several other projects supported by the National Science Founda-
tion, including a study of the energy requirements of tropical birds
by Dr. 8S. Charles Kendeigh and George Cox of the University of
Illinois and a life-history study of the coati by John H. Kaufmann of
the University of California, may also require more cages and constant-
temperature chambers.

The program of graduate assistantships will be continued, and every
effort will be made to provide all the facilities which future assistants
may need in their work.

The expansion of the library will continue.

It is also hoped to extend the field of research by the station staff
to some part of the mainland. The island itself is, of course, almost
completely covered by heavy mature forest. This is extremely valu-
able; but it would also be useful to be able to do intensive, long-term,
and undisturbed work in other areas of different ecology. An at-
tempt will be made to obtain access to some area of grassland, or
mixed grassland and brush, on the mainland near Gamboa. This will
provide ecologists and students of animal behavior with a much
greater range of opportunities.

FINANCES

Trust funds for maintenance of the island and its living facilities
are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, table subscrip-
tions, and donations.

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory
through the payment of table subscriptions:

Hastmaneicodalkw Co mse ee ees SE oa eee $1, 000. 00
NewavorkeZoologicals Societys. = =a seen saa ee se ee 300. 00
Smithsonian institutions. ses ee ea eee eee 300 .00

C. M. Goethe’s donations during the year are gratefully
acknowledged.
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excellent
cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama Canal
Company. Thanks are due especially to the Executive Secretary
Paul Runnestrand and his staff, the Customs and Immigration of-
ficials, and the Police Division. The technical advice and assistance
provided by P. Alton White, chief of the Dredging Division, and mem-
bers of his staff, by C. W. Soper of the Eastman Kodak Co., and by
Lt. K. E. McCall and other members of the Signal Corps Meteoro-
logical Team No. 2, were also invaluable.

Respectfully submitted.

Martin H. Mornrman,
Resident Naturalist.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the International Exchange
Service

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1958:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries,
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and
comprehensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was later
designated by the United States Government as the agency for the
transmission of official documents to selected depositories throughout
the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to con-
ventions, treaties, and other international agreements.

The number of packages of publications received for transmission
during the year was 1,094,798, a decrease of 110,241 packages under
the previous fiscal year. The weight of the packages received was
743,329 pounds, a decrease of 84,568 pounds. During the current
year 19 Government depository sets were assembled for transmission
abroad as compared to 21 sets assembled during the previous fiscal
year. The reduction in the number of Government sets assembled,
together with the use of corrugated cardboard boxes in place of wood
boxes for packing the Government sets for transmission, accounted
for 14,000 pounds of the decrease in weight. One Government de-
partment transmitted during the previous fiscal year 71,500 pounds
of publications that had accumulated durmg World War II and
transmitted only 258 pounds of backlog publications during the cur-
rent year.

The average weight of the individual package decreased to 10.86
ounces as compared to the 10.99-ounce average for the fiscal year of
1957.

187
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The publications received from foreign sources for addressees in
the United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad
are classified as shown in the following table:

Classification Packages Weight

Number | Number | Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad___--__---- 590; 300) | pene eeee ee 225,300 | seers
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents |-_--------- $5226 \|= sees Se 13, 385
United States departmental documents sent abrcad__.__.____-- 2215 460) eee eens 187,605" |22sceeee
Publications received in return for departmental documents__--|---------- i fe’ AA! at fare 2 16, 742
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_.-| 198,141 |.---.----- 199,968 |S Sees.
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications recelved from
abroad for distribution in the United States_.._._..........____]---------- 695386))|22aeeeaeos 100, 264
Hr) 2) aa a ae oly SPOS RP AP ae Tae me PPTL | lee Yee wea 1, 009, 967 84,831 | 612, 938 130, 391
Granditotalecs.22 22h oe. oe eS eee 1, 094, 798 743, 329

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bu-
reaus of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such
means is impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Dis-
tribution in the United States of the publications received through
the foreign exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but
by other means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped
to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,082, or 50 less than for the
previous year. Of these boxes 999 were for depositories of full sets
of United States Government documents, these publications being
furnished in exchange for the official publications of foreign govern-
ments which are received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The
weight of packages forwarded by mail and by means other than
freight was 271,560 pounds.

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for
transportation $31,800. With this amount it was possible to effect
the shipment of 818,887 pounds, which was 40,184 pounds less than
was shipped in the previous year. However, approximately 6,891
pounds of the full sets of United States Government documents ac-
cumulated during the year because the Library of Congress had re-
quested suspension of shipment to certain foreign depositories.

During the year, ocean freight rates per cubic foot continued at the
1957 level. However, on November 5, 1957, a number of carriers
filed a special rate for hauling books and periodicals to the Baltimore
piers amounting to about a 20 percent reduction.

With the exception of those to Taiwan, no shipments are being
made to China, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, and Communist-con-
trolled area of Viet-Nam, or Communist-controlled area of Laos.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 189

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 106 (63 full and 43 partial sets), listed
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the

footnotes.
DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisiédn Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WaLEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

VicTorRIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.”

Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.

BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

BraziL: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

BuieaRiaA: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.

BugMa: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

Canapa: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

ManitTosBa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

QueEsBEOo: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CrYLon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

Cuina: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan.

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.

Cusa: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: University Library, Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Kchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.

Eaypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.

FrRANcE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dahlem.

Parliamentary Library, Bonn.

GREAT BRITAIN :

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository

of the London County Council.)

Huneary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.’

Inpr4: National Library, Calcutta.

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.

Parliament Library, New Delhi.’

1 Changed from Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
2 Shipment suspended.
® Added during the year.
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

INDONESIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

IsraeL: State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem.

Iraty : Ministerio della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.

Japan : National Diet Library, Tokyo.‘

Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departmento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, México, D. F.

NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.

Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLaNnpD: Bibliothéque Nacionale, Warsaw.”

PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

Spain : Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.

SWEDEN : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

TuRKEY : National Library, Ankara.®

UNION OF SoutTH AFRICA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Union oF Soviet Socrarist Repusrics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow.

UnitTep NAtTions: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

YuaosiaviA : Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.‘

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN : Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Bouivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas GERAIS: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte.
BRiTIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA : Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BRITISH COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
EcuaApor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
EL SALVADOR:
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.
GUATEMALA : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.

* Reeeives two sets.
® Changed from Department of Printing and Mngraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul
SECRETARY’S REPORT 191

HONDURAS:

Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.®

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

BompBay: Secretary to the Government, Bombay.

BiH Ar: Revenue Department, Patna.

UtTrar PRADESH:

University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Lucknow.
WEST BENGAL: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.

Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA:

Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
LrBanon : American University of Beirut, Beirut.
Liperi4 : Department of State, Monrovia.
MA.ayA: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
NicaRAGuA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PaxkIsTAN : Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.
Panama: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panamdé.
Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asunci6n.
PHILIPPINES : House of Representatives, Manila.
ScotLanp: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.
Sram: National Library, Bangkok.
Srineapore: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
Supan : Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.
VATICAN CITY: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 80 copies of the Federal Register
and 91 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 3 copies of the Federal Register and of 2 copies
of the Congressional Record. The countries to which these journals
are being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA?
Biblioteca de la H. Legislatura de Mendoza, Mendoza.*’
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.®
Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-
cién Pablica, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
6 Changed from Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales.

"Congressional Record only.
§ Federal Register only.
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

AUSTRALIA :
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WaALtgEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
VictrorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.’
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
Brazi_: Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.”
BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CEYLON: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.”
CHINA:
Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.’
Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca PGblica Panamericana, Habana.®
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved, Prague.”
Heypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo."
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris."
Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.”
Service de la Documentation Etrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris."
GERMANY:
Amerika-Institut der Universitit Miinchen, Miinchen.’
Archiv, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.
Bibliothek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel, Kiel-
Wik.
Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden."
Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich." ®
Deutschen Institiut fur Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.’
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn."
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn."
Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg.
Guana: Chief Secretary’s Office, Accra.”
GREAT BRITAIN:
Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.
House of Commons Library, London."
N. P. P. Warehouse, H. M. Stationery Office, London.* * *
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.”
GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Houneary: National Library, Budapest.

® Three copies.
2% Two copies.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 193

INDIA :
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.®
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.’
Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.”
Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.’
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.’
Madras State Legislature, Madras."
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
Servants of Indian Society, Poona."
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
IsraEL: Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.
ITALy:
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.®
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.*
JAPAN:
Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Ministry of Finance, Tokyo.
JORDAN: Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.’
KoreEA: Secretary General, National Assembly, Seoul.
LuxEemMBoureG: Assembiée Commune de la C. BH. C. A., Luxembourg.
MExIco:
Direcci6n General Information, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES : Gobernador del Hstado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Baga CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Guitiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHuma: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Co.imMa : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
GuanasvaTo: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.®
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
MorELOs;: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NAyARIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo LEON: Biblioteca del Hstado Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Peridédico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.*
Puesua: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QuERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
S1InALoA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacdn.
Sonora : Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
VeRAckvuz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatTAn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatdn, Mérida.
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.®
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PanaMA: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.”
PHILIPPINES: House of Representatives, Manila.®
PoLanD: Kancelaria Rady, Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmova, Warsaw.
PoRTUGUESE TIMOR: Reparticio Central de Administracio Civil, Dili.
SWITzERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva?
International Labor Office, Geneva.’ *
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
UNION or SoutH AFRICA:
CaPrr or Goop Hope: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Union or Soviet Socratist REPUBLICS: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka Obschest-
vennykh Nauk, Moscow.
Urvuavayr: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly by mail.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

AustTrRIA: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

BEeLcium: Service des KHchanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Royale de Bel-
gique, Bruxelles.

CHINA: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

CzEcHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library,
Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen.

Eeyrr: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki.

France: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY (Eastern) : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

GERMANY (Western) : Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg.

HouneGary: National Library, Széchényi, Budapest.

INDIA: Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

INDONESIA: Minister of Education, Djakarta.

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 195

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
VUniversité Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortueaL: Secefio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

Rumania: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu-
charest.

SournH AuvsTraLiA: South Australian Government Hxchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
eas Publicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Madrid.

SwepEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwirzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Palais Fédéral, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TurKeEY: National Library, Ankara.

Union or SoutrH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town.

Union oF Soviet SocraList REPUBLICS: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.

Yue@ostavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Dan G. Williams, Jr., who was employed by the Smithsonian In-
stitution on February 25, 1946, and who was promoted to Chief, In-
ternational Exchange Service, on August 22, 1948, transferred to the
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Birmingham, Ala.,
on March 7, 1958. The undersigned was appointed Chief of the
Service on March 10, 1958.

Respectfully submitted.

J. A. Cotxins, Chief.

Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the twenty-first annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. This report is made pursuant to the
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, ex officic. The five general trustees
continuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, were
Chester Dale, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Paul
Mellon, and Rush H. Kress. On May 1, 1958, Chester Dale was
reelected by the Board of Trustees to serve as President of the Gallery
and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was reelected Vice President.

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1958, are as
follows:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treas- Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator.
urer. Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
John Walker, Director. Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting on May 1, 1958, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
Earl Warren, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael.
Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Robert B. Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
Anderson, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael.
Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman. Paul Mellon.
Duncan Phillips. John Walker.
Chester Dale.

196
SECRETARY’S REPORT 197

PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1958, full-time Government employees on the staff of
the National Gallery of Art numbered 317 as compared with 313
employees as of June 30, 1957. The United States Civil Service regu-
lations govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated
public funds.

Negotiations with the Civil Service Commission which had ex-
tended over several years finally resulted in raising the grade level
of the guard staff one full grade. In addition, 18 other positions
were reclassified upward, including the Curator of Education, the
Curator of the Index of American Design, and the Curator of Graphic
Arts.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, Congress in the regular
annual appropriation for the National Gallery of Art provided
$1,645,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and
upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto, as authorized by Joint Resolution of Congress approved March
24, 1937 (20 U.S.C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51). Congress also included in
a supplemental appropriation act $31,580 to cover pay increases au-
thorized by P.L. 85-462, approved June 20, 1958. The total appro-
priation for the fiscal year was $1,676,580. The following expenditures
and encumbrances were incurred:

LOTS ONE 1g SOT Vi COS oases ata ear ets a a, SOE eR Mele Ae See es $1, 360, 824. 00

Otherithan-personall services2.2=22— = ee ee ee 315, 756. 00

Ota ee aeeea saa ee eee Be eee ee ee sete 1, 676, 580. 00
ATTENDANCE

There were 913,481 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year
1958, as compared to 942,196 for the fiscal year 1957. The average
daily number of visitors was 2,516.

ACCESSIONS

There were 1,730 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts,
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year.

Girts

The following 6 paintings and 1,310 bronzes were given to the Na-
tional Gallery of Art by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in exchange
for 26 paintings and 6 pieces of sculpture:
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Artist Title

Van oyek. 0 227s aim bomen aie Dona Polyxena Spinola Guzman de Leganes.
Mubengs 262i Se aes Decius Mus Addressing the Legions.
mitian13 22. Steere ae ee Vincenzo Capello.
BlvGrecos2'22 64s Ge hy eh Christ Cleansing the Temple.
Andrea delasarton 2-2 ee. Charity.
PRigian sess ee ee ee St. John the Evangelist on Patmos.
Florentine School, XVI Cen- Lion (bronze).

tury.
Sienese School, XV Century... The Capitoline Wolf (bronze).
Francesco di Giorgio____.__-_- Winged Figure with Cornucopia (bronze).
NAV ea 0 ae eg ee I See Cardinal Richelieu (bronze).
Wi TOUS eee See oe ee eee 1,306 small bronzes.

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Garbisch gave “Mount Auburn Cemetery,
Cambridge,”’ by Thomas Chambers, in exchange for two portraits by
Erastus Field which they had previously given to the Gallery.

During the year the following gifts or bequests were also accepted
by the Board of Trustees:

PAINTINGS
Donor Artist Title
@hester: Dalene! 24 22212 ptuarts se ee Sir Robert Liston.
Eugene 8. Pleasonton----- Neaglew: suse uS Colonel Augustus James
Pleasonton.
Lewis Einstein_-......---- Veronese». 523222 32 Agostino Barberigo.
ClarencesY.Palitz-=---_ == Lucas Cranach the Nymphof Spring.
Elder.
Mrs. Mary E. Carnegie._.. Sargent----------- Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain.
Gen. Charles L. Linde- Courbet__--------- La Grotte de la Loue.
mann. :
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown---_------- Mr. Willson.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Badger-_---------- Captain Isaac Foster.
bisch.
Col--and ‘Mrs: 1; )W. -Gar-" Badger-2- 222322262 Mrs. Isaac Foster.
bisch.
Colvand (Mrs... W, Gar- Badgers-22- 22-2222 Dr. Isaac Foster, Jr.
bisch.
Colssand) Mrs, E,W. Gar- « Badger_=_ =~ 2-52 Dr. William Foster.
bisch,
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Chipman____-_---- Melons and Grapes.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown---__----- Aurora—Goddess of the
bisch. Morning.
Col. and. Mrs, (Hv W.Gar- Coe_-- 225i Henry W. Houston.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown___----.-. The Dog.
bisch.

DECORATIVE ARTS

George D. Widener and French-Eighteenth Paneled Room with Ap-
Mrs. Eleanor W. Dixon. Century. pointments.
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 11

ae

St. John the Evangelist on Patmos: Titian. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery

of Art.

e.

rinniasiraeedree 2

Christ Cleansing the Temple: El Greco. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery

of Art.
Secretary's Report, 1958 PLATE 12

Decius Mus Addressing the Legions: Peter Paul Rubens. Samuel H. Kress Collection,
National Gallery of Art.

La Grotte de la Loue: Gustave Courbet. Gift of Charles L. Lindemann to the National
Gallery of Art.
PLATE 13

"s Report, 1958

Secretary

«

‘yay Jo Aloypey) [euoneN
UOIDITJOD ssoly “FZ Jonureg ‘oweg jap

voipuy :Aqdeys

‘WV fo Ala]]eH) [euone Ny “u01}99]]0D
Jenwes yoAG UuBA >UPUIZNL) vjourdg vuaxA]Og vuoc]

“yay jo Aray[ey jeuonen

Jo]|eo)
sl 0Co) 8 Fek=) (eq) I"qd A say) “yarendys JIOq If) sUOYSIT = J19q

SNUBS “URTYT TL, H jedeg OZUDIUT A

PLATE 14

a
ro
°

oO.
o
”
ral
i
3
ae)
7)
&
o
o
n

SECRETARY’S REPORT 199

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

Donor Artist Title
Lessing J. Rosenwald_---_- Burgkniain 8222-2 The Battle of Padua.
Lessing J. Rosenwald_---- Master of Cologne Christ and the Woman of
Arms. Samaria,
Lessing J. Rosenwald_-_--- Anonymous German. Calvary.
(Eurchased from? Print )Homer:-------2-.- 30 wood engravings.
Purchase Fund).
€Burchased from Print, Homer:-=---...--- 2 lithographs.

Purchase Fund).
WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

The following works of art were received on loan by the Gallery:

From: Artist

Chester Dale, New York, N.Y.:
her SemeathGivennyn emacs e se. ase eee Monet.
IBItieRNIORKINp a eee See ao a ee ee Bellows.

Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N.Y.:
iBronzeyAndirony (Mars). 22-2 ese se eee Sansovino.
Bronzevandirons(Venus) 2-35 0-2eeee see hee Sansovino.
PA Gare @ aia cilesti c Kate tga ies eee ety ets Briosco.
Madonnajand Child2o2 2 ovat 02 8 ene French School, First Half

XIV Century.

Saint Mary Cleophas and Her Family_____--- Strigel.

Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Garbisch, New York, N.Y.:
Twenty-three early American paintings.
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D.C.:
Seven objects of Pre-Columbian art.
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D.C.:

SUnllploiiom mers Sete eee ne oe 2S Sey es Ses oS Manet.
Chatestus Noirs een se ae capo ee wie ac Cezanne.
Witseroi HlOWErS a ps see ee a OR Ge Cezanne.
MIBORS AIL O Ree ryan Wee Eye eel Lulu sien ba! Cezanne.
Stilleltifemee merase tae kee oo ewe Tek Le es Cezanne.
ORNL: | GOD is ee ph a na aR SUC ER IS OS ca ee ete ae Dufresne.
INSU Gl ee aye wn PO RE pg te ee Ss Renoir.
Manvinvingronasotae = 5 2a) ee aan e epee Renoir.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year:
To: Artist
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D.C.:
Twelve objects of Pre-Columbian art.
Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Garbisch, New York, N.Y.:
Twenty-four early American paintings.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Wrightsman, Palm Beach,
Fla.:
TOES CENT C211 Se SAP a Pissarro.
Sketch for the Staircase Ceiling in Wurzburg_- Tiepolo.
492520—59—_14.
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

To: Artist
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D.C.:
Stillbifes 0 eee Bia eee Manet.
Chateau Noirs ee oe ee ee ee Cezanne.
Vase of: Blowersoosk once ae ae eee ae Cezanne.
Phe: Salon. ese ee re eer Cezanne.
Sti bs oe ee Cezanne.
Stillelstfe sn 2 Se = Soe ee a ope as ee ae Dufresne.
ING TTC Bie en ores ree ee eee Serr tS Renoir.
Man: living on 9 Soface <-- 2-2-2 ss-2-e 22 ss 25 Renoir.

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year the Gallery lent the following works of art
for exhibition purposes:
Po: Artist
American Embassy, Paris:
America (tapestry) o=<:-2-2-=---== 17th Century Brussels.
The Flight into Egypt (drawing)--- Tiepolo.
Design for Fresco for a Ceiling Tiepolo.
(drawing).
American Embassy, Brussels:
Apollo and Daphne (tapestry) ~---- Gobelins, French School.
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens___ Ryder.

Pheawnite Girli=is2e swe Whistler.
Connecticut Historical Society, Hart-
ford, Conn. :
Girlainy Pink? Dress222o2=2ose———=—— Unknown.
Lady with Plumed Headdress___--~ Unknown.
Charles Adams Wheeler_---------- Unknown.
Mather and (Son22]-—-22- = Buddington.
Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N.Y.:
Mrs: Richard Yates-o2 225222 = Stuart.

New York State Historical Association,
Cooperstown, N.Y.:

Alice Slad exe si See eee eae Unknown.
Joseph Slade sesh Use Ss a eee Unknown.
International Exhibition, Brussels:
MisstiVian gAl ene ess 21S ae Attributed to P. Vanderlyn.
Blowers) and) Wruitui esses eee Unknown.
lax Scuiching, beers. 0) =) aaa aes Park.
Benjamin Reber’s Farm__—___~_~-- Hofman.
Thee trotterees ae ee ase ee Unknown.
Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore,
Md.:
Rightand. here eee Homer.
Woodlawn Plantation, Mt. Vernon, Vir-
ginia:

General Washington at Princeton_. Polk.
Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Com-
mission, Washington, D.C.:
Alexander Hamilton. ____----_--_~ Trumbull.
Virginia 350th Anniversary, Jamestown
Festival, Williamsburg, Va.:
Pocahontas 2222-322 eee ee British School.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 201

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year 1958:

“One Hundred Years of Architecture in America,” exhibition
celebrating the Centennial of the American Institute of Architects.
Continued from previous fiscal year, through July 14, 1957.

American Primitive Paintings from the Collection of Edgar
William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch—a selection of the outstand-
ing works from the first two exhibitions of this Collection at the
National Gallery of Art. July 24, 1957, through September 16, 1957.

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery
of Art. August 1, 1957, through September 15, 1957.

The Art of William Blake—commemorating the 200th anniversary
of the birth of the artist. October 19, 1957, through December 1,
1957.

Exhibition of Masterpieces of Korean Art, sponsored by the Gov-
ernment of the Republic of Korea. December 15, 1957, through
January 12, 1958.

Illuminated Manuscript Pages from the Rosenwald Collection, and
North Italian Engravings from the Rosenwald Collection and Gifts
from W. G. Russell Allen. December 21, 1957, through February
12, 1958.

The Fantastic, the Occult, and the Bizarre in Prints from the
Rosenwald Collection. March 15, 1958, through May 11, 1958.

Exhibition of Photographs by Alfred Stieglitz. March 16, 1958,
through April 27, 1958.

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery
of Art. May 16, 1958, to continue into the next fiscal year.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year 1958:

Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Arts, California Palace of the Legion of

Honor, San Francisco, Calif. :
“The Printmaker 1450-1950,” 26

OGIT tone ee oe eee ee ee September 1957.
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. :
“Jacques Callot,” 59 prints_._.______ September 17-October 20, 1957.

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, Washington, D.C.:
“Contemporary German Prints” (exhibition tour).
Extended from October 1957 through the spring of 1958.
American Federation of Arts, New York, N.Y.:
“The Life of Christ in Prints,” a circulating exhibition of 50 prints.
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Indiana University Art Gallery, Bloomington, Ind.:
“Baudelaire and the Graphic Arts,”

10 prints and drawings_______-___ October 25—November 17, 1957.
Whitechapel Art Gallery, London, England:
Sow. Hayter: 2) prints 222222222528 November 1957.

Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Blake, 10 prints and 1 drawing_--. November 1957, last 3 weeks.
Smith College Museum of Art, Northhampton, Mass. :
Special study exhibition of Renais-

sanceliart; 16 prints] == See November 18-December 20, 1957.
Currier Gallery of Art, Manchester, N.H.:
Christmas Exhibition, 20 prints____- November 27—December 29, 1957.

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Large retrospective Picasso Exhibi-

tion? “lb eprints 222 2=) ese ee December 1957.
University of Minnesota, Duluth Branch, Duluth, Minn.:
Christmas Exhibition, 1 print--__-~ December 1957.

Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego, San
Diego, Calif. :
“The Madonna in Art,” 3 prints_.__.. December 6-29, 1957.
Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia, 8.C.:
Picasso, “Sculptor’s Studio,” 46
DENS eee ees ee ee ee February 1-28, 1958.
Art Department, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind.:
Lenten Exhibition (Passion of
Christ), 3 sets of Diirer prints (63
ropmbeytsje shay CVU) pe February 26—April 5, 1958.
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
“Original Pieces of Sculpture by
Aristide Maillol,’ 2 prints, 2
drawings (to show with above ex-

hibition’) 22 ee eee April 15-May 15, 1958.
Barber-Scotia College, Concord, N.C. :
Festival of Fine Arts. 30 prints._.t_‘0 May 1-17, 1958.

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Sery-
ice, Washington, D. C.:
Exhibition, “George Bellows—Prints
and, Drawings; 19 prints=222222—— Extended from May 1958 through De-
cember 1958.
Museum of Art of Ogunquit, Ogunquit, Maine:
Mary Cassatt, 14 prints and draw-
INC Geeks eee Ree eee June 15, through first week in Sep-
tember 1958.

Index of American Design.—During the fiscal year 1958, 18 travel-
ing exhibitions (including 870 plates) with 26 bookings were circu-
lated in the following States:

Number of Number of

State exhibitions State exhibitions

California ==. 2 scene ese eee 1 Pennsylvania==_ = 9

Colorado 22a eee ee 1 Tennessee=2. 2. 42.244 eee 2

Connecticut== 2s ee 2 TOxXaG 2-22 eae a eee 2

ING Wed CLSCY. 22 ahs ie 1 Wtah= 23.) eee 7
ING WoXOLKs 2. 2s oe ee 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 203

Two traveling exhibitions (including 71 plates) with 14 bookings
in 11 States were circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service.

Four traveling exhibitions (including 110 plates) with 7 bookings in
Virginia were circulated by the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

One traveling exhibition (including 80 plates) was circulated by
the United States Information Agency in Germany.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The curatorial department accessioned 1,388 gifts to the Gallery
during the fiscal year 1958. Advice was given regarding 341 works
of art brought to the Gallery for expert opinion and nine visits to col-
lections were made by members of the staff in connection with offers
of gifts or for expert opinion. About 2,150 inquiries requiring re-
search were answered verbally and by letter.

Dr. Perry B. Cott, chief curator, was a guest of the Federal Re-
public of Germany for a 4-week tour of German museums with a
group of American museum officials. Dr. Cott gave the following
lectures during the year: “Some German Art Centers Revisited—
1957” before the Municipal Art Society of Baltimore, Md., and “Ob-
servations on Italian and Spanish Painting in the Samuel H. Kress
Collection” at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Tex. He also
spoke on “Business and the Arts” on the occasion of the opening of
the Samuel H. Kress Collection in the Brooks Memorial Art Gallery,
Memphis, Tenn. Dr. Erwin O. Christensen, curator of decorative
arts, gave seven lectures to USIA groups and two lectures to National
Education Association schoolteachers on the Index of American De-
sign. Miss Elizabeth Mongan, curator of graphic arts, spoke on
Blake at the Cosmopolitan Club in Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. Hereward
Lester Cooke, museum curator, spoke on the Gallery LecTour at the
annual meeting of the American Association of Museums in Charles-
ton, S.C. Dr. Katharine Shepard, assistant curator of graphic arts,
gave a talk on print techniques to a group of young women from the
Washington area. Miss Elizabeth Benson, assistant registrar, spoke
to a group of women from the Washington area on “Venice in
Painting.”

William P. Campbell, curator of painting, assisted in the judging
of art exhibitions sponsored by the National League of American Pen
Women and the Delmarva Chicken Festival, Denton, Md. Thomas
P. Baird, museum curator, assisted in the judging of exhibitions for
the Christmas Greens on Capitol Hill, the Arts Club of Washington,
St. John’s Church, Georgetown, Church of the Blessed Sacrament,
Chevy Chase, and an exhibition held in The Plains, Va.
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Miss Mongan served on the selection committee for the Exhibition
of French Drawings from American collections to be held at the Boy-
mans Museum, Rotterdam, and at the Orangerie in Paris. She also
served on the board of directors of the Print Council of America and
on its executive committee, and is on the American Jury of Selection
of the International Graphic Society, Inc. Dr. Shepard served as
secretary of the Washington Society of the Archaeological Institute
of America, and on the local committee of arrangements for the gen-
eral meeting of the Archaeological Institute of America. Mr. Baird
served on the committee for the annual meeting of the College Art
Association held in Washington, D.C.

The Richter Archives received and cataloged over 2,000 photo-
graphs on exchange from museums here and abroad, and 3,610 photo-
graphs were purchased for the Richter Archives.

RESTORATION

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular
and systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery,
and periodically removed dust and bloom as required. He relined 9
paintings and gave special treatment to 46 paintings and 8 pieces of
sculpture. Thirty-two paintings were X-rayed as an aid in research.
Experiments were continued with the application of 27H and other
synthetic varnishes developed by the National Gallery of Art Fel-
lowship at the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh,
Pa. Mr. Sullivan consulted with artists and engineers in New York
on a new type of fluorescent incandescent light. Subsequently, 10
units of these fixtures were installed in the restoration studio. Tech-
nical advice on condition and the care of paintings was given when
works of art were brought to the Gallery, and such technical infor-
mation as could be given when requested by the public. He inspect-
ed all Gallery paintings on loan in Government buildings in Wash-
ington, and also gave advice on and special treatment to works of art
belonging to other Government agencies, including the White House,
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Capitol, the Treasury, and the Smith-
sonian Institution.

PUBLICATIONS

Dr. Fern Rusk Shapley, assistant chief curator, wrote an article
for the magazine Art in America, Fall 1957, entitled “Old Masters.”
Dr. Christensen contributed the following articles for magazines:
“Opportunities for Research through the Index of American Design
and Related Washington Institutions” for the College Art Journal,
Fall of 1957; “Pennsylvania German Folk Arts” for Art in America,
Fall of 1957; and “A Study of Body Design” for Ford Times, Septem-
ber 1957. He also wrote “American Folk Sculpture” for A Concise
SECRETARY’S REPORT 205

Encyclopedia of American Antiques, vols. 1 and 2, 1958, published
by Hawthorne Books. John Pancoast, registrar, reviewed “Museum
Registration Methods” for the Museum News. Dr. Cooke wrote an
article on George Bellows for the America magazine. Members of the
curatorial staff assisted in the installation of the exhibitions and
publication of the catalogs for the Korean, Blake, and Stieglitz
exhibitions.

During the past fiscal year the Publications Fund published 2 new
11-by-14-inch color reproductions, 3 new color and 8 new black-and-
white postcards. Four additional large collotype reproductions of
paintings on exhibition were produced by outside publishers and
placed on sale by the fund.

The A. W. Mellon Lecture in the Fine Arts by Dr. Etienne Gilson,
entitled “Painting and Reality,” published in book form, was placed
on sale. The following additional books related to the collection or
with text by a staff member were made available: Pre-Columbian
Art, A Guide to Art Museums in the U. S.—East Coast, and Three
Hundred Years of American Painting. A revised second edition of
Looking at Italian Pictures in the National Gallery of Art was pub-
lished by the Fund.

Other new items made available during the year include the record-
ing of Richard Bales’s cantata, “The Union,” on sculpture reproduc-
tion, and playing cards reproducing two National Gallery paintings.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The program of the Educational Office was carried out under the
supervision of the curator in charge of educational work and his
staff who lectured and conducted guided tours in the Gallery on the
works of art in its collection.

The attendance for the general tours, Congressional tours, “Tours
of the Week,” and “Pictures of the Week” totaled 48,983, while that
of the auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately
12,914 during the fiscal year 1958.

Tours, lectures, and conferences were arranged by special appoint-
ment for 284 groups and individuals. The total number of people
served in this manner was 8,097, an increase over last year of 457
persons. These special appointments were made for such groups as
the various governmental agencies, educators (foreign and Ameri-
can), religious groups, heads of museums, radio and television repre-
sentatives, and convention groups.

The program of training volunteer docents continued during the
fiscal year. Seventy-four ladies were given special instruction under
the general supervision of the curator in charge of educational work.
By special arrangement with the school systems of the District.of
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Columbia and surrounding counties of Maryland and Virginia these
ladies assisted in conducting tours for 1,101 classes, with a total of
82,548 children, an increase over last year of 9,987.

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 20 lectures in the audi-
torium on Sunday afternoons. Twenty-four lectures were given by
guest speakers, and during March and April Sir Anthony Blunt de-
livered the Seventh Annual Series of six A. W. Mellon Lectures in
the Fine Arts on the theme “Poussin and French Classicism.”

The Educational Department has nine sets of traveling exhibitions
which are circulated to schools, libraries, universities, clubs, etc.,
throughout the United States, and were viewed by approximately
20,000 persons. Sixteen copies of the film “Your National Gallery of
Art” are on permanent loan in distribution centers throughout the
country, and a new film on the Gallery “Art in the Western World”
ig available for local viewers. The Educational Office continued the
slide-strip sale and during the year a total of 37 sets of strips con-
taining about 300 slides each were placed in Educational Institu-
tions. The sales of the filmstrip “The Art of the Florentine Golden
Age in the National Gallery of Art” totaled 64.

During the past year 235 persons borrowed a total of 7,239 slides
from the slide lending collection.

Members of the staff prepared leaflets on works of art in individual
galleries, and prepared mimeographed material for school tours; pre-
pared and recorded 20 radio broadcasts for use during intermission
periods of the National Gallery of Art concerts broadcast each Sun-
day evening, and for circulation through audio-visual centers through-
out the country.

A printed Calendar of Events announcing all the National Gallery
activities was prepared and distributed by the Educational Office to
a mailing list of approximately 5,700 names.

Dr. Stites visited museums, monuments, important houses and land-
marks, for the purpose of photographing for a new filmstrip on Amer-
ican painting. He held meetings with religious and cultural groups,
and judged art shows for embassies, Government agencies, and others.
He recorded talks for the Voice of America, gave the commencement
address at Montgomery Junior College, and attended cultural awards
dinner of the Scholastic Magazine. Dr. Evans judged art shows for
the Navy and for community activities groups, gave a slide lecture to
the National Convention of Penwomen and set up a teachers’ aids ex-
hibition for the Arlington County schools. Dr. Evans also made an
8-day survey tour of eastern audio-visual centers, for the National
Gallery’s extension program. Dr. Bouton wrote articles on various
artists for the Encyclopaedia Britannica and attended a meeting of
the Washington Committee of Educational Television. Mrs. Michel-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 207

son consulted with educators of the Fairfax County schools, judged
art shows at the Hecht Company and at the National Collection of
Fine Arts, where she also exhibited. She delivered a lecture at the
National Housing Center.

LIBRARY

The most important acquisitions to the Library this year were 621
books, pamphlets, periodicals, and subscriptions, and 3,610 photo-
graphs which were purchased from private funds. A total of 34
books and subscriptions were purchased from Government funds
made available for this purpose. Gifts to the library included 1,024
books and pamphlets; 836 books, pamphlets, and periodicals were
received on exchange from other institutions. More than 490 visits
were made by other than National Gallery staff to the Library for
study and research during this year, and approximately 1,600 tele-
phone requests for information were handled in the Library.

The Library is the depository for photographs of the works of art
in the collections of the National Gallery of Art. A stock of repro-
ductions is maintained for use in research by the curatorial and other
departments of the Gallery, for dissemination of knowledge to quali-
fied sources, for exchange with other institutions, and for sale at the
request of any interested individual. Approximately 5,400 photo-
graphs were received in the Library and processed for the Library’s
stock in this fiscal year of 1958. Approximately 1,100 requests were
handled of which 1,059 orders were actually filled, 8373 by mail and
686 over the counter. Sales to the general public amounted to
$1,156.33 covering approximately 1,500 photographs. There were 295
permits for reproduction of 778 subjects processed in the Library.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

The work of the Index continued as usual and in addition included,
this year, the processing for preservation of some 17,200 renderings.
Approximately 533 persons studied Index material for research pur-
poses, and to gather material for publication and design. The circu-
lation of traveling exhibitions of Index renderings continued during
the year (see exhibitions) ; and approximately 146 slides were lent
for lecture and study purposes.

The curator of the Index continued to take part in the orientation
program of the USIA personnel, and delivered seven lectures on the
purpose of the Index and on folk arts and crafts in the United States.

The curator of the Index is also curator of decorative arts, and in
that capacity undertook preparation of a guide on “Objects of Medi-
eval Art.” The work of labeling the Chinese porcelains was also
begun.
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

Throughout the fiscal year the Gallery building, its equipment, and
its grounds have been maintained at the established standards.

The conversion of the elevator in the west wing of the Gallery
building from manual control to automatic operation was completed
in January 1958. Accordingly, for the first time since the opening
of the Gallery in 1941, this elevator is regularly available to the gen-
eral public.

In the outer lobby of the Constitution Avenue entrance two new
marble benches were installed. It is believed that these are more in
keeping with the general appearance of the Gallery than the wood
benches they replaced.

In March 1958 the shipping door at the northeast moat was replaced
with an aluminum door more easily opened and closed than the door
which has served the Gallery since its inception.

In January 1958 the installation of LecTour, an electronic guide
system, was completed in 10 galleries. The device was made available
to the public the first Monday in February. From that time to the
end of the fiscal year 24,651 persons used this guide service.

For the Korean exhibition, the Gallery staff, working in conjunc-
tion with designers from the Smithsonian Institution, created an
unusual installation, using special designs in vertical cases, wall
cases, and special bases. The installation was unique in its field and
was unusually well received by the public.

The expansion of the Gallery’s horticultural program continued
during the year, and the current annual production of plants and
flowers for the garden courts, special exhibitions, etc., is valued at
$24,000, compared to less than $6,000 before the greenhouse and cold-
house were made available to the Gallery’s horticulturist late in 1954.
Additionally, it is now estimated that in the greenhouse and growing
beds for future use there are plant materials having a value in excess

of $40,000.
OTHER ACTIVITIES

Forty Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal year
in the East Garden Court. The National Gallery of Art Orchestra,
conducted by Richard Bales, played nine concerts in the Gallery,
two of which were made possible by the Music Performance Trust
Fund of the American Federation of Musicians. <A string orchestra
conducted by Mr. Bales furnished music during the opening of the
Korean Exhibition on December 14, 1957, and at the opening of the
Stieglitz Exhibition on March 15, 1958. A special concert was given
on June 15, 1958, in the Lecture Hall for representatives of radio
and television stations in the East. The National Gallery Orchestra
with the Church of the Reformation Choir presented Mr. Bales’s two
SECRETARY’S REPORT 209

cantatas “The Confederacy” and “The Union” in Constitution Hall
in October 1957. Early in 1958 Columbia Records released its record-
ing of “The Union.” During March 1958 Mr. Bales appeared as guest
conductor at the Eleventh Annual Folk Music Festival in Wilmington,
Ohio, in performance of one of his compositions. Five Sunday eve-
nings during May and June 1958 were devoted to the Gallery’s Fif-
teenth American Music Festival. All the concerts were broadcast
in their entirety by WGMS-AM and FM in Washington. The inter-
missions during Sunday evening concerts featured discussions by
members of the Educational Office staff and Mr. Bales.

During the fiscal year 3,104 copies of 12 press releases were issued
in connection with Gallery activities. One hundred twenty-eight
permits to copy paintings and 166 permits to photograph in the Gal-
lery were also issued.

The Photographic Laboratory of the Gallery produced 11,680
prints, 733 black-and-white slides, 733 color slides, 1,811 black-and-
white negatives, 70 color-separation negatives, 171 color transparen-
cies, 63 infrareds, 33 ultraviolets, and 103 enlargements.

During the fiscal year a program was undertaken to distribute sets
of 500 color slides (2’’ x 2’) to a number of educational institutions.
The first distribution was made in groups of 100 slides to 103 institu-
tions. Subsequent sets will be shipped in groups of 100 each until the
project is completed.

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of money were made during the fiscal year 1958 by the Old
Dominion Foundation, Avalon Foundation, George M. and Pamela
A. Humphrey Fund, Miss Anita Rattner, Howell Foreman, and
Mrs. Oma Jeane Rauh.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be for-
warded to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

Hontineron Cairns, Secretary.

Dr. Leonarp CaRMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Library

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958:

Of the 53,274 publications received in the library, 1,394 were books
and periodicals that could not be obtained in exchange. Extra funds
made available during the year for the purchase of books and peri-
odicals made it possible to fill in gaps in some fields. Back issues of
periodicals and some of the much-needed out-of-print reference ma-
terials are being acquired even though in many instances they are
difficult to locate.

The backbone of the library’s collection was enriched by the con-
tinual flow of journals and monographs from scientific, cultural, and
technical societies and organizations all over the world, which were
received in exchange for the Smithsonian publications. New ex-
changes arranged this year totaled 128 and are to be added to the vast
number already established. There were 788 special requests sent to
issuing organizations or societies for back issues of publications to fill
gaps in the library’s collections.

In addition, the library is greatly indebted to numerous organiza-
tions and individuals for special gifts. Outstanding among these
were the 6,659 pieces from the Melville collection on philately re-
leased by the Library of Congress. From Stack’s in New York
came 18 volumes on numismatics. From the library of the late Dr.
Raymond C. Shannon there were received 2,697 books and reprints
chiefly on Diptera. From Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr., came 22 parts of
Rabenhorst’s Kryptogamen Flora.

There were 11,442 publications sent to the Library of Congress, plus
5,176 books and periodicals, to be added to the Smithsonian Deposit.
The others not individually recorded in the library, were documents,
doctoral dissertations, and miscellaneous publications of no immedi-
ate concern to the Institution. To the National Library of Medicine
were sent 1,325 periodicals and dissertations, to the U.S. Book Ex-
change 3,334 publications, and to other agencies 502 items.

The circulation of books and periodicals in the reference and cir-
culation section totaled 11,447. Added to this, 9,526 new publications
were sent to sectional libraries for intramural circulation and filing.
Since no record is kept of the use of the library’s collections in the
sectional libraries, no accurate numerical estimate can be made of the

210
SECRETARY’S REPORT 211

actual use of books throughout the Institution. In all, 959 books
were lent to 100 other libraries. Two outstanding loans were for the
Theodore Roosevelt Centennial Exhibit at the Library of Congress.
In addition the library’s services were increased by 4,012 loans from
other libraries, chiefly the Library of Congress, Department of Agri-
culture, Geological Survey, and the National Library of Medicine.

The 11,394 reference queries answered shows only a portion of the
identifying, checking, searching, and locating required to supply the
right answers to the many complex questions that are asked daily by
the library’s users. Of the 8,583 persons who came to the library,
3,500 used the resources of the division of insects library. The lack
of adequate reading areas in the main library is not conducive to quiet
study and discourages users from availing themselves of the library’s
research facilities.

The catalog section classified and cataloged 4,463 books and pam-
phlets, entered 25,253 periodicals, and filed 26,768 cards. The staff
of the catalog section participated in the west-stacks moving project
in spite of the current work load which had to be met. Cards for all
cataloged material that was discarded had to be taken out. Also
there were 1,000 or more volumes pulled from the west stacks to be
cataloged and added to the permanent collection. A painstaking
search of the card catalog and the library shelves had to be made
before any of the duplicate material could be discarded. Steady prog-
ress is being made on the cataloging of material in the department
of science and technology.

The catalog section prepared 9,000 volumes for binding or rebind-
ing. Through a waiver from the Government Printing Office, the
work was done by a commercial binder under contract. The fresh
new buckram bindings not only preserve valuable research material
but also add to the appearance of the shelves. In addition, 536 vol-
umes requiring special handling by a skilled binder were repaired or
rebound in the library.

David Ray, a foreign-language specialist in the catalog section,
translated 190 letters from other languages, including Russian, and
provided reference assistance to staff members of the Institution on
translations of obscure words and phrases. In April a class in scien-
tific Russian, taught by Mr. Ray, was started for 25 members of the
curatorial staff of the Natural History Museum to aid them in acquir-
ing a reading knowledge of Russian scientific publications.

The special project, started a year ago, of weeding out and removing
the library’s collections in the Smithsonian and Arts and Industries
Buildings was almost completed at the end of the year. The dupli-
cate and special collections which had been stored in the west stacks
in the Smithsonian Building for the past 50 years have now all been
212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

cleared from this area. Some of this material was kept for the In-
stitution’s use, the rest disposed of to various sources including the
U.S. Book Exchange, the Library of Congress, and other Govern-
ment agencies. The Watts de Peyster collection of about 5,000
volumes, including a valuable collection of Napoleona, was deposited
with the library of Franklin and Marshall College at Lancaster, Pa.

The Bureau of American Ethnology library, after the discarding
of some 6,750 items plus about 5,000 reprints, was shifted into this
west-stack area. The east stacks and office library were both weeded
for duplicates and no-longer-needed material, and the entire collec-
tions from both areas were moved to other locations. The Astro-
physical Observatory library, which had been in the Smithsonian
Building, was shifted to the Arts and Industries Building. This
east-stack area, which housed some 60,000 volumes, was entirely
cleared of the library’s collections and has been made available for
other uses.

The library housed on the second floor of the Arts and Industries
Building has been undergoing a cleanup program since last summer.
Here again duplicates and no-longer-needed publications have been
pulled and discarded. A special crew hired for this project washed
all shelves with soap and water, and all books are being cleaned with
a vacuum cleaner. Altogether, 158,182 books, pamphlets, and period-
icals (bound and unbound) were disposed of as a part of this project.

The working collections in these two library-stack areas are now
easily accessible, and shelving space has been made available for cur-
rent accessions. Plans are in progress for the development of library
facilities for the Museum of History and Technology.

A similar project of weeding and discarding in the library at the
National Zoological Park was undertaken to provide space for its
working collection of books. In all, 750 volumes and pamphlets have
been disposed of, and progress is being made on cataloging this col-
lection.

Most important of the changes on the library’s staff during the
year was the retirement of Mrs. Leila F. Clark as librarian on August
31, 1957, after more than 29 years’ service. Serving first as assistant
librarian in charge of the National Museum library, she was ap-
pointed Smithsonian librarian on February 2, 1942. During her ad-
ministration the library contributed its efforts to the war activities,
providing reference and research materials to the Institution’s staff
as well as to other Government agencies. The consolidation of the
National Museum library with the Smithsonian library on November
2, 1951, resulted in better and more economical library service to the
whole Institution.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 213

On September 23, 1957, Miss Ruth Blanchard, who had been chief
of the catalog section, was appointed librarian. Another important
change was the retirement on September 30, 1957, of Mrs. Elisabeth
H. Gazin, chief of the reference and circulation section. Miss Janice
S. Brown was appointed March 17, 1958, to fill this position.

The librarian and the chief of the reference and circulation section
attended the Special Libraries Association convention in Chicago,
Tll., where they took advantage of the varied activities provided by
the Association’s museum division.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

ACCESSIONS
Total
Volumes | recorded
volumes,
1958
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress_-----_-_ 22 586, 722
Smithsonian main library (including former office and
MEISE UIEMOTATICS) Soe ele 2 Shes See ae eal 7, 890 316, 503
Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and
Or CRISIS) ash cy ere ae et me ete EAS kee 91 15, 036
Bureau of American Hthnology.2--.---.=..2-2.22.-2.- 366 37, 716
NatwonaleAIre Museum = 529s 2 ees 61 558
National Collection of Fine Arts! 222-2222 222222222 22= 61 14, 140
INationaleZoolopical) Bark = 92. 225222 soe eee eee oe 1 4, 218
ObA eee i ed soe we 8 et ee ee seek 8, 492 974, 893

Unbound volumes of periodicals and reprints and separates from serial publi-
cations, of which there are many thousands, have not been included in these
totals.

EXCHANGES
INiGWwACR Chan pestATranged =e ah eee se ee 6 be eS Pa ek 128
Specially requested publications received_-_-..------------------------ 788
CATALOGING
WOluMmeCSECATAlO DE Clments pe marta oe ae ee ee ea eee 4, 463
PC RCRIORICALOS MICs ere or Se ee a ee see oe 26, 768
PERIODICALS
EcriodicmlipanrisventercGs 2220 5.24200. enc eeu ct aten sock Sos ee ote 25, 253
5,154 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.
CIRCULATION
Heo uns OL books) and periodicals 2-22 52-2 ok ta oe ee ee 11, 447

Circulation in sectional libraries is not counted except in the division of insects.
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

BINDING AND REPAIR

Volumes: sent tothevbindery2 224 il se ee Ser eee 9, 000
Volumes; repaired*in ithe library) 422 — eee ee eee 536

Respectfully submitted.
Ruta E. Buancnarn, Librarian.

Dr. LEONARD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on Publications

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year
ended June 30, 1958:

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are issued partly
from federally appropriated funds (Smithsonian Reports and publi-
cations of the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private endow-
ment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publications of
the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications). The Insti-
tution also edits and publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint im-
print of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution.
The second volume in this series appeared during the year. In addi-
tion, the Smithsonian publishes a guide book, a picture pamphlet,
postcards and a postcard folder, a color-picture album, color slides, a
filmstrip on Smithsonian exhibits, a coloring book for children, and
popular publications on scientific and historical subjects related to its
important exhibits and collections for sale to visitors. Through its
publication program the Smithsonian endeavors to carry out its
founder’s expressed desire for the diffusion of knowledge.

During the year the Institution published 13 papers and title page
and contents of 2 volumes in the Miscellaneous Collections; 1 Annual
Report of the Board of Regents and separates of 18 articles in the
General Appendix of the Report; 1 Annual Report of the Secretary ;
4 special publications and reprints of 1 of the series of mathematical
tables and of 1 special publication.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 2
Bulletins, 17 Proceedings papers, and 8 papers in the series Contribu-
tions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology published 1 Annual Report
and 4 Bulletins.

The Astrophysical Observatory published 6 numbers in the series
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics.

The National Collection of Fine Arts published 1 catalog, and the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, under the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts, issued 1 catalog.

215
4925205915
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 publication, and a reprint of
1 pamphlet.

There were distributed 530,662 copies of publications and miscel-
laneous items. Publications: 14 Contributions of Knowledge, 30,752
Miscellaneous Collections, 8,709 Annual Reports and 19,418 pamphlet
copies of Report separates, 1,060 War Background Studies, 40,857
special publications, 152 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition,
54,317 publications of the National Museum, 28,131 publications of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, 21,635 publications of the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, 589 publications of the Freer Gallery
of Art, 12,897 publications of the Astrophysical Observatory, 5,012
reports of the American Historical Association, and 2,006 publica-
tions not issued by the Smithsonian Institution. Miscellaneous
items: 13 sets of North American Wildflowers and 1 Pitcher Plant
volume, 46,039 guide books, 16,933 picture pamphlets, 172,114 post-
cards and postcard folders, 16,796 color slides, 52,138 information
leaflets, 57 New Museum of History and Technology pamphlets.
There were also distributed 208 statuettes, 10 Viewmaster reels, and
10 filmstrips and 5 filmstrip records.

The 1958 allotment from Government funds of $158,500 for print-
ing and binding was entirely obligated at the close of the year.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

In this series, under the immediate editorship of Ruth B. MacManus,
there were issued title page and table of contents of volumes 131 and
134, 4 papers in volume 134, 8 papers in volume 135, and whole volume
133, as follows:

Volume 131

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4810.) [January] 1958.

Volume 1383

Araucanian child life and its cultural background, by Sister M. Inez Hilger.
439 pp., 90 pls., 10 figs. (Publ. 4297.) December 10, 1957. ($7.00.)

Volume 184

No. 9. The birds of Isla Coiba, by Alexander Wetmore. 105 pp., 4 pls., 15 figs.
(Publ. 4295.) July 8,1957. ($1.80.)

No. 10. The medical and veterinary importance of cockroaches, by Louis M. Roth
and Edwin R. Willis. i147 pp, 7 pls. (Publ. 4299.) December 19, 1957.
($1.25. )

No. 11. Anatomy and taxonomy of the mature naiads of the genus Plathemis
(Odonata: Libellulidae), by Harvey R. Levine. 28 pp., 25 figs. (Publ. 4301.)
September 25,1957. (30 cents.)

No. 12. Permian brachiopods from central Oregon, by G. Arthur Cooper. 79 pp.,
12 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 4302.) December 9, 1957. ($1.30)

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4311.) [February] 1958.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 217

Volume 185

No. 2. Morphology and taxonomy of the foraminiferal genus Pararotalia Le
Calvez, 1949, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen Tappan. 24 pp., 5 pls.,
5 figs. (Publ. 4804.) December 3, 1957. (45 cents.)

No. 3. Geology of Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, by W. P. Woodring. 389 pp.,
3 pls.,3 figs. (Publ. 4304.) February 11,1958. (65 cents.)

No. 4. A new theory on Columbus’s voyage through the Bahamas, by Edwin A.
Link and Marion C, Link. 45 pp., 5 pls., 2 charts. (Publ. 4306.) January
20,1958. (80 cents.)

No. 5. Mineralogical studies on Guatemalan jade, by William F. Foshag. 60 pp.,
4 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 4807.) December 3, 1957. (S80 cents.)

No. 6. A revised interpretation of the external reproductive organs of male in-
sects, by R. BE. Snodgrass. 60 pp., 15 figs. (Publ. 4809.) December 8, 1957.
(60 cents. )

No. 7. The anatomy of the Labrador duck, Camptorhynchus labradorius
(Gmelin), by Philip S. Humphrey and Robert 8. Butsch. 23 pp., 5 pls., 9 figs.
(Publ. 4334.) May 28,1958. ($1.00.)

No. 8. Miscellaneous notes on fossil birds, by Alexander Wetmore. 11 pp., 5 pls.
(Publ. 4835.) June 26, 1958. (380 cents.)

No. 10. Periodicities in ionospheric data, by C. G. Abbot. 5 pp., 1 fig. (Publ.
4338.) May 28,1958. (15 cents.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1956.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1956 was received from the printer December 6,
1957:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1956. ix-+580 pp., 105 pis., 64 figs. (Publ. 4272.)

The genera] appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 4273-
4290) :

The edge of the sun, by Donald H. Menzel.

The mystery of Mars, by H. P. Wilkins.

The story of cosmic rays, by W. F. G. Swann.

Atmospherie pollution in growing communities, by Francois N. Frenkiel.

Hurricanes, by R. C. Gentry and R. H. Simpson.

Plantlike features in thunder-eggs and geodes, by Roland W. Brown.

Exploration for the remains of giant ground sloths in Panama, by C. Lewis Gazin.

The Kitimat story, by Angela Croome.

Sewage treatment—how it is accomplished. by C. HE. Keefer.

Pioneer settlement in eastern Colombia, by Raymond HE. Crist and Ernesto Guhl.

The sources of animal behavior, by G. P. Wells.

Rivers in the sea, by F. G. Waiton Smith.

A narrative of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, 1956, by Waldo L.
Schmitt.

Man as a maker of new plants and new plant communities, by Edgar Anderson.

Project Coral Fish looks at Palau, by Frederick M. Bayer and Robert R. Harry-
Rofen.

Archeological work in Arctic Canada, by Henry B. Collins.
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The Cherokees of North Carolina: Living memorials of the past, by William H.
Gilbert, Jr.
Dried meat—early man’s travel ration, by Edward N. Wentworth.

Report for 1957.—The Report of the Secretary, which will form part
of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was issued
January 17,1958:

Report of the Secretary and financial report of the Executive Committee of the

Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1957. x+204 pp., 9 pls.
(Publ. 4308. )

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The history of entomology in World War II, by Emory C. Cushing, vi+-117 pp.,
9pls.,2 figs. (Publ. 4294.) [August] 1957. ($2.00.)

The story of transportation, by HE. John Long. 36 pp., illus. (Publ. 4312.)
[June] 1958. (50 cents.)

Adventures in science at the Smithsonian, by E. John Long and George Weiner.
44 pp.,illus. (Publ. 4341.) [May]1958. (25 cents.)

Coloring book of the Smithsonian Institution. 50 pp. (Pubi. 4342.) [June]
1958. (50 cents.)

REPRINTS

Smithsonian mathematical formulae and tables of elliptic functions, by Edwin
P. Adams and R. L. Hippisley. Third reprint. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
74, No. 1, Publ. 2672, 314 pp. [October] 1957. ($4.00.)

The Smithsonian Institution. 49 pp., 29 illus. (Spee. Publ. 4145) [October]
1957. (50 cents.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of John S. Lea, assistant chief
of the division. The following publications were issued:

REPORT
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1957. Pp. vi-+-1387, illus., January 17, 1958.
BULLETINS
211. Life histories of North American blackbirds, orioles, tanagers, and allies,
by Arthur Cleveland Bent. Pp. ix+549, 37 pls., February 27, 1958.
215. Studies in Foraminifera, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and collaborators.
Pp. vi+323, December 30, 1957.
PROCEEDINGS

Volume 105
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iv, 585-618, June 16, 1958.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 219

Volume 107

No. 3381. Some littoral barnacles from the Tuamotu, Marshall, and Caroline
Islands, by Dora Priaulx Henry. Pp. 25-38, 3 pls., October 21, 1957.

No. 3382. A new species of Calanopia (Copepoda: Calanoida) from the
Caribbean Sea, by Thomas B. Bowman. Pp. 39-45, 3 figs., September 4, 1957.

No. 3383. The frogfishes of the family Antennariidae, by Leonard P. Schultz.
Pp. 47-105, 8 figs., 14 pls., November 1, 1957.

No. 3384. New American cynipid wasps from oak galls, by Lewis H. Weld.
Pp. 107-122, 1 pl., October 23, 1957.

No. 3385. The foraminiferal genus Halyphysema and two new tropical Pacific
species, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. Pp. 123-126, 1 pl., January 9, 1958.

No. 3386. The leathopper tribe Alebrini (Homoptera, Cicadellidae), by David
A. Young, Jr. Pp. 127-277, 39 figs., December 4, 1957.

No. 3387. Two additional Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Mary-
land, by Remington Kellogg. Pp. 279-837, 30 pls., December 9, 1957.

No. 3388. Studies of seven siderites, by Edward P. Henderson and Stuart H.
Perry. Pp. 389-403, 6 figs., 22 pis., January 31, 1958.

No. 3389. New Neotropical wasps of the family Braconidae (Hymenoptera)
in the U.S. National Museum, by C. Ff. W. Muesebeck. Pp. 405-461, 4 figs.,
January 27, 1958.

No. 3390. North American copepods of the family Notodelphyidae, by Paul
L.Illg. Pp. 463-649, 19 figs., April 28, 1958.

Volume 108

No. 3391. Pycnaspis splendens, new genus, new species, a new ostracoderm
from the upper Ordovician of North America, by Tor Orvig. Pp. 1-23, 5 figs.,
3 pls., April 10, 1958.

No. 3392. Branchinecta cornigera, a new species of anostracan phyllopod
from the State of Washington, by James WH. Lynch. Pp. 25-37, 16 figs., April
15, 1958.

No. 3398. Type specimens of lice (order Anoplura) in the United States
National Museum, by Phyllis T. Johnson. Pp. 39-49, May 27, 1958.

No. 3394. A new North American bird-flea, by F. G. A. M. Smit. Pp. 51-57,
10 figs., May 15, 1958.

No. 3396. A redefinition of the butterfly genera Tatochila, Phulia, Piercolias,
and Baltia, with descriptions of related genera and subgenera, by William D.
Field. Pp. 103-131, 40 figs., June 9, 1958.

No. 3397. The systematie position of the bird genus Apalopteron, by H. G.
Deignan. Pp. 183-136, 1 pl., June 16, 1958.

CONTRIBUTICNS FROM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM
Volume 29

Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-vi, November 15, 1957.
Part 12. Notes on some Brazilian and other Leguminosae, by Arturo Burkhart.
Pp. 545-551, November 15, 1957.

Volume 30

Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-v, November 15, 1957.
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Volume 31

Title page and table of contents. Pp.i-v, February 4, 1958.
Part 3. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, III, by Emery C. Leonard. Pp. x-+323-
781, figs. 119-274, February 4, 1958.

Volume 82

Part 8. A revision of the genus Chaetocalyz, by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii+207-
245, 13 figs., February 6, 1958.

Volume 88

Whole volume. The Bromeliaceae of Colombia, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp. i-v-+-
311, 88 figs., December 24, 1957.

Volume 34

Part 1. Diagnostic characteristics of the fruits and florets of economic species
of North American Sporobolus, by Vera Lyola Colbry. Pp. iii+24, 2 figs., 4
pls., December 17, 1957.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate
direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following publications were
issued during the year:

ANNUAL REPORT

Seventy-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1956-1957.
ii+28 pp., 2 pls. 1958.

BULLETINS

Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos. 49-56. x+356 pp., 75 pis., 5 figs.,
15 maps. December 2, 1957.

No. 49. The Ormond Beach Mound, east-central Florida, by Jesse D. Jen-
nings, Gordon R. Willey, and Marshall T. Newman.

No. 50. Hair pipes in Plains Indian adornment, a study in Indian and White
ingenuity, by John C. Hwers.

No. 51. Observations on some nineteenth-century pottery vessels from the
Upper Missouri, by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 52. Revaluation of the Eastern Siouan problem, with particular em-
phasis on the Virginia branches—the Occaneechi, the Saponi, and the
Tutelc, by Carl EF. Miller.

No. 53. An archeological reconnaissance in southwestern Mexico, by Mat-
thew W. Stirling.

No. 54. Valiadolid Maya enumeration, by John P. Harrington.

No. 55. Letters to Jack Wilson, the Paiute Prophet, written between 1908
and 1911, edited by Grace M. Dangberg.

No. 56. Factionalism at Taos Pueblo, New Mexico, by William N. Fenton.

Bulletin 165. Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and Zui Pueblos, by Frances
Densmore. xii+i118 pp.,6pls. August 15, 1957.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 221

Bulletin 166. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 8. Excavations in the McNary
Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon, by Douglas Osborne. With appendixes
by Marshall T. Newman, Arthur Woodward, W. J. Kroll, and B. H. McCleod.
x+258 pp., 40 pls., 6 figs., 19 maps. December 31, 1957.

Bulletin 167. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon, by
Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans. xxviii+664 pp., 112 pls. 206 figs. Decem-
ber 31, 1957.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The editorial work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
continued under the immediate direction of Ernest E. Biebighauser.
The year’s publications are as follows:

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS
Volume 2

No. 5. Geomagnetism and the emission-line corona, 1950-1953, by Barbara Bell
and Harold Glazer. Pps. 51-107, 35 figs., November 27, 1957.

No. 6. A new catalog of ancient novae, by Hsi Tsé-tsung. Pp. 109-130. His-
torical records of meteor showers in China, Korea, and Japan, by Susumu
Imoto and Ichiro Hasegawa. Pp. 131-144. February 12, 1958.

No. 7. Distribution of meteoritic debris about the Arizona meteorite crater, by
John §. Rinehart. Pp. 145-160, 9 figs., January 28, 1958.

No. 8. Sunspots and geomagnetism, by Barbara Bell and Harold Glazer. Pp.
161-179, 12 figs, March 13, 1958.

No. 9. On two parameters used in the physical theory of meteors, by Luigi G.
Jacchia. Pp. 181-187, 3 figs., June 18, 1958.

No. 10. Orbital data and preliminary analyses of satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957
Beta, by various authors. Pp. iii-vii-+189-3847, May 23, 1958.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

A retrospective exhibition of sculpture by Paul Manship. With foreword, “An
Appreciation,” by Thomas M. Beggs. 31 pp.,illus. 1958.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions, 1958-1959. 32 pp. 1958.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Ars Orientalis, vol. 2. vii+639 pp., 224 pls, 123 fgs. (Publ. 4298.) 1957.
($31.00. )
REPRINT

The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pp., 8 pls., 3 figs.
(Publ. 4185.) 1958.

REPORTS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided in
222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the act of incorporation of the Association. The following reports

were issued during the year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1954. Vol. 2.
Writings on American History, 1952. 1958.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1956.
Vol. 1. Proceedings. 1957.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Sixtieth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was not received
until after the end of the period covered by this report.

Respectfully submitted.

Pau. H. Oruser,
Chief, Editorial and Publications Division.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1958
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PARENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay-
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the
amount of $550,000.

The gift of James Smithson was “lent to the United States Treas-
ury, at 6 per centum per annum interest” (20 USC 54), and by the
Act of March 12, 1894 (20 USC 55), the Secretary of the Treasury
was “authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as
the original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents
may, from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the
original bequest the sum of $1,000,000.”

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution
was authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was
reached on January 11, 1917, by the deposit of $2,000.

Under the above authority the amounts shown below are deposited
in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest :

Unrestricted

funds Income

PTMESESINILN SON 282 on eee Soe eS eee $727, 640 $43, 658. 40
ASSET a So a eae ee 14, 000 840. 00
TS hipaa | ee, Utena ae de cote Oris Aenean ee ibe ene 500 30. 00
TS tarsi igo BS eee ey ee ee eee 2, 500 150. 00
OG ZKINS) CSeNeral)) ee es Se ee ee ee Se ee 116, 000 6, 960. 00
TEC GSE i eres ee erin Wee Eee lee eee BL 590 35. 40
Sirsow de) fs a eed Sas. ee ee 1, 100 66. 00
G NOY orl) inBek gi este ee Dy SRS SR Se 7 a ee 862,330 51,739.80

223
224. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Restricted
funds Income
Hodgkins: (specitic) 2.5 oa ne ee ee ee ee $100,000 $6, 000. 00
IPOOre 2 ee ee ee eee eee eee 26,670 ~~ 1, 600.20
Reid: 22 26s. SiC es ee eee ae 11, 000 660. 00
i! Dc) of [Een ee aie eg ie Sea Epes BAe Be Ae ae ee 137, 670 8, 260. 20
—SS—SS—
Grand totali22-2! 2-3 SS 2 A ea eee 1, 000,000 60, 000. 00

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the
United States there has been accumulated from income and bequests
the sum of $3,556,079.86 which has been invested and is carried on
the books of the Institution as the Consolidated Fund, a policy ap-
proved by the Regents at their meeting on December 14, 1916.

CONSOLIDATED FUND

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution)

Fund

ESD DOCE Wien Las SDCCIONs eee Soe ee ee ee Ree a nes Sone eee
wAcvernvarh Obertiov elds y Cin a ean ae eee Renee eo ee ate tind anne aera
Gifts; royalties, .cainion;sale of securities. 2-5 225" 2 2 a ane eee
Hachenbergs Georges canG: @arolingns === soe so enna nee eens se neneenaene
SH amiullOn wAmMes ot cae en cee ee eee SIE eA 2 ane e eae aes H
Ionrypi@ Sr OlinG ss ae ee al ee a ee eae ee
rent VAG OSeD Han GWwElarriGG.a essen = ee ne eee ae = eee naa a
*Hodekins, ihomas:Gs (peneral)sesss-- ae ee ase eee en eee ane
IVORTOW. SD witht aire at rene a rae ee ae ee aa eee
Olmsted EiGlOnWA sos oe saa oe ee ee oe ae ee ene aee a aares
Porter elenrysirkes. eee: Ses eae Oe te ee ee eee eee
WRNESS- AV aILATM ONGS 2 oes as ce eee te re ee ee ee eee eee
© Sanford 4 GOOrPOneh sa sens oe = aaa ee ee ae ee Baa Sete
“Smithson, James) 2. 2-2 ee a as ee ere cae eae en taawans
Witherspoon. NOM SS) Ate cates ne ee ere ee een ene ne eer

Investment

1958

$19, 928. 57
52, 835. 57
369, 334. 71
5,379. 61
539. 96

1, 617. 74
65, 571. 48
40, 520. 10
103, 437. 53
1,071. 70
383, 089. 72
632. 85

1, 190. 73
1, 633. 01
172, 621. 20

1, 219, 405. 18

Income 1958

$1, 030. 98
2, 733. 44
19, 107.35
278, 32
27.93

83. 69

1, 724. 83
2, 096. 26
5, 351. 29
55. 45

19, 818. 91
32. 75

61. 59

84. 50

8, 930. 49

61, 417. 78

*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury.

CONSOLIDATED FUND

(Income restricted to specific use)

a ae eee

Fund

Abbott, William L., for investigations in biology.-........------------------
Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the sun and annual lecture
OM SAMO. aes oe NST Se SE eee ee enn ac cue ceeeeuec eet awasdescessscs=
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of
countries otherthan the/WUnitediStatessss---s--sa-caacncaese esses escesee=
Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memoria! to Secretary Baird-.__-.-..------.--
Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and pastels and for encourage-
mentiol Americaniartistic endeavOMsosnss naa sea n-ne aan nent eae ane ae

Investment

1958

$139, 695. 42

53, 496. 50

67, 016. 55
32, 206. 06

38, 365. 53

Income 1958

$7, 208. 60
2, 767. 63

3, 467. 04
1, 666. 18

1, 984. 85
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

CONSOLIDATED FUND—Continued

225

Fund

Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for Zoological Park_.--.__.--
Canfield Collection, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of minerals_
Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey collection and promotion of
researchesirelating ‘to Coleoptera=- 2+ +<<-5----2--25. 252 o-oo scans nn -
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea collec-
tiontofigems andimollusks.. 80322022 225. - 2 SSL ELE. MeL
Dykes, Charles, for support in financial research..........-----------.-------
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation and exhibtion of the photo-
graphic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr.---....--.-------------------
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice, for some scientific work of
the Institution, preferably in chemistry or medicine--_._--..---------------
Higbee, Harry, Memorial Fund, for general use of the Institution after the
Perlodiofitentyears fromidateiofigif{t (1957) == +--- osecnnscceneceeceee-----—--
Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of lighting
objects). 22-2 soo er ees sesh eli cosacuce ees ceeds esceecn ots
Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock Agrostological Library_--.---
Hrdiitka, AleS and Marie, to further researches in physical anthropology and
publication in connection therewith. .-............-<..-.=--...--=------..-
Hughes Bruce, to, found Hughes-alcove:- =. 2252.22 - a0 aca oa cc ccecenne
Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences__--.--------
Long, Annette and Edith C., for upkeep and preservation of Long collection
ofembroideries;laces;jand textiles. -.<...- 52a anna nn ccnecsencosennnn
Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection__---.------
Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first-class works of art for use and
benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_-...-----.--..--------------
Nelson, Edward W., for support of biological studies_-.--..-----------------
Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the collection of dolls placed in
the U.S. National Museum through the interest of Mr. and Mrs. Noyes-_--
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell collection-_--
*Poore, Lucy T. and George W., for general use of the Institution when
principalamounts|t0'$200 000 ssa aseeeens scene ne senasaaeectsasaseeseeeerens
Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. National Museum containing
OPUISEA CES et ee ee ee ee ee ae a naeaetaceacscsesecosaas
*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher Tunis_-
Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling collee-
LOMO MMINOL AIS: see ese ee a oe ea a ocean se aee ee cece eaeseeeeansocssseenae
GeblUnes solar Wh eSearCDaesasane aan atoclensccccescseece oese ceo e aa aeeascacaas
Rollins, Miriam and William, for investigations in physics and chemistry---
Smithsonianiemployees’ retirement-..--.—---. -2-. 5. <----5 ==. con cceccece nae
Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the Springer collection and library--
Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts......----
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for development of geological and
paleontological studies and publishing results of same-_--...-.--------------
Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publications in botany.--....--------------.-------
wWounger, Helen Walcott, meld lmitrusts----2sscs sees soe nen cans monn e nn oeaeee
Zerbee, Frances Brinckle, for endowment of aquaria__.-.--------------------

WE otalzs—t-xs 2-2 eee ee a ee ee ee ee ee ne

Investment
1958

$1, 337. 32
51, 160. 58

16, 766. 55

37, 668. 47
57, 595. 87

14, 539. 82

11, 891. 41

8, 791. 18
2,110. 71

54, 980. 81
25, 604. 12
116, 578. 66

726. 31
26, 237. 15

27, 018. 91
29, 747. 18

1, 285. 12
9, 915. 16

215, 574. 10

14, 227. 05
23, 965. 96

161, 436. 71
40, 635. 92
171, 753. 27
33, 113. 34
238, 987. 59
13, 374, 30

640, 318. 28
77, 429. 21
94, 180. 80

1, 268. 82

2, 336, 674. 68

Income 1958

$59. 19
2, 646, 75

867. 38

1, 948. 78
2, 979. 38

752. 23
615. 18
34. 89

454. 81
109. 22

2, 704. 49
1, 324. 60
6, 031. 11

37. 57
1, 357. 35

1,297. 81
1, 475. 56

66. 46
512. 97

10, 480. 28

736. 02
1, 232. 06

8, 351. 86
2, 102. 31
7, 969. 83
1, 743, 13
1, 240. 96

691, 92

119, 143. 20

*In addition to funds deposited in the U.S. Treasury.
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958
FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks
and securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endow-
ment fund for the operation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts
to $8,118,055.02.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes______________________ $2, 081, 735. 18
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer

CANS Ka ky gt 5) 0 eer lege a pain GP a EN Fh ll le epilator e rhs toe 2, 474, 344. 68

Total invested endowment other than Freer___________ 4, 556, 079. 86

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes________________ 8, 118, 055. 02

Total invested endowment for all purposes__.________ 12, 674, 134. 88

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the U.S. Revised Statutes, see. 5591__________ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value

at date acquired) :

OBO) 01 0 (<i eae desiree te Wiel SRR, Ne DER Sie a Red $1, 189, 444. 34
StOGhS soe ety ee ce el ee ened 28 reat 2, 328, 183. 81
Real estate and mortgages_________________ 5, 801. 00
WUninvested capitals = esses sean Seaee eee anne 32, 650. 71
—_—_———_————_ 3, 556, 079. 86
Total investments other than Free endowment___...____ 4, 556, 079. 86

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

1B ONS Os a ee ke Sree $4, 597, 684. 90
Stocks Wulhs OS be See are ones oh Fs Em Poa hak 3, 504, 511. 46
Oninvestedeicapitales aces kee 15, 858. 66

8, 118, 055. 02

‘Totalein Vestinents 22s ee ee 12, 674, 134. 88
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 297

ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury current
ACCOUNTS Se Sh eset $768, 885. 37
In banks and on hand_____--~- 311, 289. 87
1, 080, 175. 24
Less uninvested endowment funds_ 48, 509. 37
$1, 031, 665. 87
Mraveloand: other advances. === 2 4, 981. 00
Cash invested (U.S. Treasury notes) -_-_---___- 1, 380, 197. 74
$2, 366, 844. 61
Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds__________ $8, 102, 196. 36
Uninvested cash__________ 15, 858. 66
———_—_—_———— _ 8, 118, 055. 02
Investments—at book value—other
than Freer:
Stocks and bonds (Consoli-
dated Mund 22222202222 8, 422, 123. 26
Uninvested cash_______--~ 82, 650. 71
Special deposit in U.S.
Treasury at 6 percent in-
LeETeS Ge ae Se eee Ere 1, 000, 000. 00
Other stocks and bonds___-_ 95, 504. 89

Real estate and mortgages_ 5, 801. 00
—_____——— 4, 556, 079. 86
—______———_ 12, 674, 184. 88

Rota es Ble Se he ea ee ee 15, 040, 979. 49

UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENT

Unexpended funds:

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment______-__-_-__- $605, 688. 43
Income from other endowments:
ROSE CLOG ates Ss ER he ee A nd eee att $391, 551. 38
Generale zee eh ae sa ed PETES 2 Meee ie alee ones © 389, 166. 45
So 780, 717. 83
Gittsrand contributions. 2] os see ee Se eee 980, 438. 35
2, 366, 844. 61
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art_____________ $8, 118, 055. 02
Other:
Restrictedps=— 202 ee tae 2, 474, 344. 68

General ts. Feta aie ee do 2, 081, 735. 18
Sa 12, 674, 134. 88

Totals 22a see eee ee ee ee 15, 040, 979. 49
228

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL

YEAR 1958?
Restricted Funds Unre-
stricted Gifts and Total
Funds Grants
General Freer
Receipts:
Income from investments:
Wreer Hundet22 2250-2 sae ee eee S380 S15 2467.|2 sets 2 sone eee eee $389, 152. 67
Consolidated Rund222222- 2-3 $95; 451 pon eeee eens ene S61, O86:05i|=oe-e-e eee 157, 367. 61
oan’ to,U.S:Treasury:-2-----—-—-- SxoC0s 20M eek eeceesee= 61;.789580) 2252 see caee 60, 000. 00
Real estate and mortgages_-___-__-_ BOGS S45 eons ee woes eee re el ere nee ees 3, 068. 84
Special Funds—stocks and bonds_-| 5,050.15 |------------ Ry ROA LE? Dy eee 39, 285. 57
Pi blications sess ee eee 913.18 8, 928. 54 80, 427. 22 $1, 817. 58 92, 086. 52
Researchigrant;income:.--=--~<-so-|-eoeasasesea|aeeeaeesoeee BO, 2olsfelpsseseseonsee= 35, 231. 72
Special gifts and fees:
Giftsiandcoutributionsis---- =~ sss5\eoe =a a-- == 16;000.00)\|) (65;.929:-20);}2 = eee ee 81, 929. 29
Special! service fees--2= 22 =<. 2-22-22) ee eee 86. 68 6, 134. 87 59, 536. 57 65, 758. 12
Refundvofiadvancesssi2s-ss== oo | eee eee eae | eee een nee 105.489: 00) |Ga2s--2aeeeeee 10, 489. 00
Employees withholdings (net)_..__|_.--.-.-----|------------ (8}:793:90)|-=----<-ss-s=4 (3, 793. 90)
Others. eS eee sea ee 1005005 S22 =e = 9.197.470) o-oo cnn eee 9, 297. 47
Reinvestment (required by provision
Off2(GONOrS) Sessenae eee ee ee eee 19" 346 10 paca = cene |p oeteeceeacs secon aeene 19, 346. 10
Giftsiandiorants ee ee ee ee A ee ae) ee Sees eel | een Reemere 31, 427, 935.38 | 1, 427, 935. 38
FDoushtincomeieess ace see | eee eee ae 132,170.03 | 414, 167.89 | 351, 526.94 | 1, 489, 289.53 | 2,387, 154.39
Endowment Funds—
Sales of securities:
TO se) wed chp 18 (eee ee Se Pe Pee | te Raia a FA PS ee (Na he ee ae 1, 544, 434. 59
Lessfamounts purchased: @: 2 sa: |-s2 22 os oe | ee ee ee ee 1, 529, 467. 04
14, 966. 65
Consolidated sun see eee Se eee | ee ae ees | ee eee 424,317.14
Wessiamounts' purchased =--- <2 s|-- ea season | aaee man cece |peeeoes see ea seee eee nena 527, 177.03
(102, 859. 89)
Othenistocks:an dG bonds 22 ee [eee ne res | pene eens | aa ee ees | ee 21, 170. 53
bess amounts purchased == =| a2- = ae ee a See eae as ae ee eee ee | ee eee 18, 643. 61
2, 526. 92
TRotalireceipts ase eee ee oe ee eee | ene a ee a | Se ea eee | eee ee 2, 301, 788. 07
Disbursements:
PAVCLIMINISEEALLV OSA ATIGS asst pect eee een | ee eee S82 684576) 2. = 25-2 eee 81, 684. 76
Othersalariess2ses 22 es 125473220) 143 220 79). a eee See ae 155, 703. 08
Purchases for collections__._..___.__- 17 916) 27a ebb AOS 7G lel ae se ce aa ee = ee eee 193, 853. 78
Research and explorations and related
administrative expense:
PSE EV og (ot aa ss » a Boome ee oe [ees ceases) |e eee 33, 997. 33 3670, 847. 22 704, 844. 55
Uy) io) ee ea eT ee 10, 267. 34 11, 739. 68 $5436578))|2 2222-2 eee 30, 443. 80
Equipmentandsupplyseessesss see ee nee eee 11 ,\968.,47 ‘so 2Se 11, 968. 47
Otherzte a a eee eee 19653060 [easeaeeeee 926.36 }81, 411, 455.91 | 1, 414, 347.33
Publica tions sess ee 10, 810. 10 21, 309. 67 49! '656,'28) (ut el eee 81, 676. 05
Buildings, equipment, and grounds:
Buildings and installations_._.....|.-...--....- 10, 426. 31 O89 65) 2222 ee 11, 415. 96
Court and grounds maintenance_.-|_.-_.------- 2 0GISI St =o oe eee |e eee 2, 061. 18
Murniture.and fixturess os ses | pees | waee eee 159; 20) |s=c2s-2- = 159. 20
‘Rechnicalilaboratory=- 2-2 eee lane ee eeeee PO97862) |e oe oes |b eee 1, 097. 62
Contractual services:
Custodian and legal fees_._...__.-- 7,705.17 | 11, 232.90 958:'75 Nizaccccnecesees 19, 896. 82

See footnotes at end of table.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 229

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL
1958 *—Continued

Restricted Funds Unre-
stricted Gifts and Total
| Funds Grants
General Freer
Disbursements— Continued
Other supplies and expenses:
Meetings, special exhibits___-.__]------------ $5, 215.08 | $6,026.23 |_-----.- ms AST $11, 241.31
Mectures t= ooo ae sect oc ees seee 1 390)0G; [be oewane snes. oe one ae 1, 390. 06
Photographs and reproductions-__|-------.---- 5, 121. 51 CUS RNG (a5, Tae see aes 6, 037. 27
Dra ry ee eee eee ousi ese 3, 216. 39 O65. SIs ese ee 4, 182. 20
Stationery and office’supply.----|-2--2--=----|=-2£2—-5-.- 266:'62) eas ee eee 266. 62
Postage, telephone and telegraph_|---------.--|------------ 446540) ease te 446. 40
Stampymachines:is =<. ee eae eee aoe eee 1849880) |i oe ee 1, 849. 80
Total disbursements..._____-__ 61, 137.23 | 391,977.70 | 199, 148. 20 |$2, 082, 303.13 | 2, 734, 566. 26
Excess of disbursements over receipts
(SEOm OLE) haere sie ee ea ed Nd een i ee eee (432, 778. 19)
Gashebalancery Une: sgl Ob ieee a ee ee ane ee en eee ah A cata ps sepa eee 1, 904, 072. 19
1, 471, 204. 00
Investment of current funds in United
States Government bonds:
TENT Y EL SCs ee ele 2 oe eee ee » igo pag pie hnteei9 3 Sn, apes € 831, 138. 74
Holdtorredecried spree teats ree et eee SOEs Dy ee es Ce ee 440, 019. 98
(391, 118. 76)
Cashibalancensunes0; 19582s- sea aren ee ne nn ee ene aw eeenen nen e= 1, 080, 175. 24

1This statement does not include Government appropriations under administrative charge of the
Institution.

2 Includes receipts for IGY program.

§ Includes disbursements for IGY program.

Note: This figure reflects expenditures of grants for specific purposes received in 1957 for required expendi-
ture in 1958, largely under the IGY program,

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $8,926.14.

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks,
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United
States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by
the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the U.S. Treasury.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the
following:

Albion College, gift to defray expenses of Dr. Leonard P. Schultz in connection
with travel to Albion College.
American Institute of Biological Sciences, grant to defray expenses of Dr.

Leonard P. Shultz in connection with attendance at a symposium dealing

with basic research approaches to the development of shark repellents in
New Orleans,
230) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

American Institute of Biological Sciences, grant to defray expenses of Dr.
Herbert Friedmann in connection with attendance at the 15th Zoological
Congress in London.

American Pharmaceutical Association, grant to support historical research and
attendance at international scientific meetings by George Griffenhagen.

American Philosophical Society, grant for archeological investigations on the
coast of Ecuador.

American Philosophical Society, grant to defray expenses of Dr. T. Dale Stewart
in connection with travel to the Iraq Museum in Baghdad.

Atomie Energy Commission, additional grant for the study of specific biological
indicators of ionizing radiation and the mechanism of the action of such
radiation.

Atomic Energy Commission, additional grant for the purpose of conducting a
biochemical investigation of photomorphogenesis in green plants.

Bredin, Mrs. J. Bruce, additional gift for the Smithsonian-Bredin Expeditions
Fund.

Buchanan, Wiley T., gift to establish the Buchanan Fund for Purchase of His-
torical Objects.

Carter Oil Company, additional grant for a research project on echinoid spines.

Clark, Mrs. Leila F., gift to the Library.

Colp, Dr. Ralph, gift to the Northern Mexico Archeological Fund.

Cornell University, gift to defray expenses of Dr. G. A. Cooper in connection
with delivering the Gurley Lecture.

Creole Foundation, grant for the purpose of testing carbon samples for radio-
active carbon in order to obtain dates from archeological horizons in the
Orinoco Basin of Venezuela.

Department of the Air Force, grant for research directed toward the study of
the rate of accretion of interplanetary matter by the earth.

Department of the Air Force, grant for research entitled “Study of Atmos-
pheric Entry and Impact of High Velocity Meteorites.”

Guggenheim, John Simon, Memorial Foundation, grant to cover the costs of
making and printing two or more colored plates for inclusion in a manuscript en-
titled “The Parasitic Weaverbirds” by Herbert Friedmann.

Harvard University, gift for the Peabody Museum, Harvard University-Smith-
sonian Institution Kalahari Expedition.

Henry, Miss Caroline, bequest to establish the “Joseph Henry and Harriet A.
Henry Fund.”

Kevorkian, H., gift to Freer Gallery of Art.

Link, E. A., additional gift for historical research (marine archeology).

Link Foundation, grant for special publications dealing with aviation and Smith-
sonian Institution collections.

May, Mrs. M. Merriweather Post, gift to purchase wooden Indian Princess.

National Geographic Society, grant to cover the preparation of technical drawings
of fishes for illustration in the report on the collection of fishes made during the
Arnhem Land Expedition.

National Geographic Society, additional grant to complete the excavations and
related work at the archeological site in Jackson County, Alabama.

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of a research entitled “Studies
of Type Specimens of Ferns.”

National Science Foundation, additional grant for research on recent Foraminif-
era from Ifaluk Atoll.

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled “Mono-
graphic Studies of Tingidae and Presmidae (Hemiptera).”
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 231

National Science Foundation, additional grants for an optical tracking and scien-
tific analysis program for the U.S. Earth Satellite Program.

National Science Foundation, additional grants for research on “Taxonomy of
the Bamboos.”’

National Science Foundation, additional grants for research entitled “Taxonomic
Study of the Phanerogams of Colombia.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled “Meta-
bolic Aspects of the Digestion of Wax.”

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research entitled
“Monograph of Fresh-water Calanoid Copepods.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled “Recon-
struction of Migration Routes.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled “Lichens
of West Virginia.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled ‘Studies
of Cassiduloida (Hchinoidea).”

National Science Foundation, grant to assist in defraying travel expenses of Dr.
Martin H. Moynihan from Panama to Helsinki, Finland, and return, for the
purpose of attending the 12th International Ornithological Congress.

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research en-
titled “Photoregulation of Growth in Plants.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled ‘“Be-
havior of Neotropical Lepidoptera.”

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled ‘‘Com-
parative Analysis of Behavior in Tropical Birds.”

Naval Research, Office of, additional grant to perform psychological research
studies.

Naval Research, Office of, additional grant to perform aeronautical research
studies.

Naval Research, Office of, additional grant to assist work in progress on the
preparation of a synoptic catalog of the mosquitoes of the world.

Naval Research, Office of, grant to provide expert consultants to advise the Navy
Research Advisory Committee.

Nelson, R. Leiland, additional gift for biological studies.

Norris, Mrs. Ernest Eden, gift to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

United States Commissioner General, grant for preparation of an exhibition of
American Folk and Primitive Art for participation in the Brussels Universal
and International Exhibition of 1958.

University of Michigan, gift to Freer Gallery of Art.

University of Pennsylvania, gift to defray expenses of Dr. Henry B. Collins in
connection with travel to Denmark.

West Texas Geological Society, gift to defray expenses of Dr. G. A. Cooper in
connection with travel to West Texas.

For support of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange:

Atomic Energy Commission.
Department of the Air Force.
Department of the Army.
Department of the Navy.
National Science Foundation.
Public Health Service.
Veterans Administration.

492520—_59——_16
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Included in the above list of gifts and contributions are reimburs-
able contracts.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1958:

Salaries and xp CSC see ee ae eee ee eee ee $6, 102, 319. 00
INCL ON ALE ZOOLOLT Ca RE aT ieee ores a eee ee es 840, 650. 00
Nationale ZoolozicalyParkdGl958/59) os eee 16, 000. 00
Additions to the Natural History Building____.________________ 800, 000. 00

The appropriation made to the National Gallery of Art (which is
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution) was $1,676,580.00.

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agen-
cies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion as follows:

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, In-
terior Department, for archeological investigations in river basins
throughout the WnitedsS tates a. $175, 624. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of
the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island
in the Canal Zone.

AUDIT

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds follows:

WASHINGTON, D.C., August 25, 1958.
THE BoarpD OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington 25, D.C.

We have examined the statement of private funds of Smithsonian Institu-
tion as of June 30, 1958 and the related statement of private funds cash re-
ceipts and disbursements (but excluding the National Gallery of Art and other
Gepartments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under Fed-
eral appropriations) for the year then ended. Our examination was made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly in-
cluded such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other speci-
mens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts of the
Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial posi-
tion of Smithsonian Institution at June 30, 1958 arising from cash transactions
and revenues collected and expenses disbursed by it (and changes in proprietary
interest and fund balances where reflected in cash basis statements) during the
year then ended, on a basic consistent with that of the preceding year.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 233

We have reported as above on the appended financial statements (Exhibits A
and B). The accompanying schedules, though not considered necessary for a
fair presentation of the financial position and results of operation, are pre-
sented mainly for supplementary analysis purposes. While our examination
was made primarily for the purpose of formulating our opinion on the current
year’s basic financial statements, the additional data have been subjected to the
same audit procedures and, in our opinion, are stated fairly in all material
respects when considered in conjunction with the financial statements taken
as a whole.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & Co.

Respectfully submitted.
Rosert V. FLEMING
CLARENCE CANNON
Cary P. Haskins
Executive Committee.
r
7 ha Oe t
+
— ’ ’
ee 7 : q
. oa ee
ie | heey ars 7
4, >

a (nears. FOC, AP Dae ie 4 Lag eau bal

—s Wiki. he aioe eis. dont lleeag Aposain| Ab te ioe
‘ ie § . i ue aS

GENERAL APPENDIX

to the

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1958

235
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GENERAL Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by staff
members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to
the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1958.

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi-
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

236
The Sun’s Energy’

By FARRINGTON DANIELS

Department of Chemistry

University of Wisconsin

LIFE WITHOUT THE SUN is unthinkable. Modern civilization with
its ever-increasing demands for energy is completely dependent on
the solar energy of the past, in the form of fossil fuels, as well as on
the solar energy of the present. Many ancient peoples worshiped
the sun. Why have we gathered together here this week from the
four corners of the earth in the name of the sun? Not to worship the
sun, but to try, through science and technology, to obtain still more
useful energy from it. We rebel against the old adage that “there is
nothing new under the stun.”

AWAKENED INTEREST IN SOLAR ENERGY

But why this new and almost explosive interest in utilizing solar
energy? The sun has always been with us. I am delighted to see
this new appreciation of solar energy—but I am worried, also. For 7
years I have been actively urging scientists and engineers throughout
the world to turn more of their research activities toward greater,
direct utilization of this enormous, neglected source of energy—and
now the idea has caught on like a delayed-action fuse. Too many
people are beginning to expect too much too soon. There is no sudden
era of solar prosperity just around the corner. There is much to be
done yet by scientists, inventors and engineers, and philanthropists,
before it is time for investors to become excited. The producers of
conventional power through coal, petroleum, water power, and elec-
tricity have nothing to worry about. None of our present engines
and generators will be rendered obsolete by solar energy. Atomic
energy and solar energy, each in its own way, will merely supplement
the new additions to our power-producing machinery. Atomic energy
will come in large, multimillion-dollar central power stations near

1Published by permission of the Stanford Research Institute from Proceedings of the
World Symposium on Applied Solar Energy, 1955.

237
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

cities and towns. In fact, it is already here. The critical mass of
uranium, the elaborate controls and shielding and the disposal of
radioactive waste, all work against small atomic units. Emphasis
is being placed on 100,000-kilowatt atomic power units and larger,
with some consideration of 5,000-kilowatt units for special purposes.
Undoubtedly, the successes of atomic power have had an influence on
solar energy. ‘They have weaned us away from thinking only in
terms of conventional combustion fuels.

Unlike atomic energy, solar energy has no critical mass, no health
hazards (except sunburn), and no waste products to dispose of. Any-
one can go out in his yard and run a toy steam engine with free sun-
shine. There is no power limit. Laboratory research and even pilot-
plant operation for solar energy is comparatively inexpensive.

Solar-energy utilization will probably start with small units costing
not millions of dollars, but only thousands of dollars. They will find
their first practical uses in rural, nonindustrialized areas. I do not
mean to imply that the deserts of Arizona may not bloom with huge
solar powerplants—but they won’t be important this year.

Let me ask again why do we sense this upsurge of interest in the
utilization of solar energy now, and why has the direct use of the sun’s
energy been neglected so long? There are many reasons. Life has
been too easy with concentrated energy in the form of coal, petroleum,
natural gas, and waterpower. “Necessity is the mother of invention”
and the scientists and engineers most capable of developing devices
for making direct use of the sun have lived in industrialized countries
where there has been no necessity for developing solar energy. These
countries would not be industrialized unless they had plenty of fuel.
Dollarwise, competition with cheap fossil fuels has been unattractive,
and “social-conscious-wise” there has been no demand in the indus-
trialized countries that could not be met with conventional sources of
energy.

But these conditions are changing and there are several factors which
are contributing to our new interest in solar energy. We realize, as
never before, that our fossil fuels—coal, oil, and gas—will not last
forever. Several careful studies have been published in the last few
years which point out that the depletion of our reserves will come
sooner than we think. In the fuel-rich United States, the problem
may be one for our grandchildren, but some countries already are feel-
ing the pinch of a decrease in high-grade, easily minable coal. More-
over, the population of the world is increasing rapidly and the demands
for abundant energy are increasing still faster. Any estimates of the
life of fuel reserves based on consumption at past rates are utterly
unrealistic.
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 239

An occasional catastrophe has shown the helplessness of industrial-
ized cities when the electricity goes off. Every year it becomes more
difficult for them to exist without abundant power. The people
could not spread out to the farms and live at a subsistence level. The
farms are mechanized, too. I have recently had a survey conducted
by V. Stoikov who found that for every calorie obtained from food
in the United States, we put a little more than a calorie from fossil
fuel into producing the food.

Another important factor in our rising interest in the sun is the
realization of the great need for more mechanical power in the non-
industrialized areas of the world. Transportation and communica-
tion have improved so much that we are acutely aware, as never before,
of the need to give technical help to our friends on the other side of
the world and to the south of us.

I was privileged to attend a solar-energy symposium in 1954 in
New Delhi, as a guest of the Indian Government and UNESCO. The
Indian Government took us on a study tour of the semiarid regions.
We saw, among other things, four bullocks and two men working dili-
gently and skillfully for long hours irrigating farmland. Every min-
ute two bullocks pull up by rope 250 pounds of water from a depth of
50 feet. One of the men collapses the water bag made from hide and
the water flows over the land. The second operator drives the bullocks
and a second team of bullocks pulls up the next 250 pounds of water.
This work done by the four bullocks and two men is reckoned to be
equivalent to one-third of a horsepower. And the four bullocks cost
$600 and have a life of only about 6 years. Moreover, they have to eat
and they must consume a considerable portion of the crops that they
help to grow. The project seemed to be barely self-supporting—but
the water has to be raised. If the bullocks’ walkway were covered
with a solar heat collector which activated a crude engine working at
only 5-percent efficiency, a 1-horsepower pump could be operated.
Five-percent efficiency should not be impossible. The challenge to
replace these bullocks with solar engines seems more important to
me now than some of the theoretical researches in which I have
been engaged. (Of course, the bullocks are used for plowing and
transportation as well as for irrigation.) We also saw a camel walk-
ing around a well and pulling up water by a rotating mechanism.
We saw a man getting water with the help of a counterweight, and
a woman walking back and forth on a balanced beam to pull up
pails of water. Solar engines certainly cannot compete yet with coal,
oil, and electricity where these are abundant, but I believe that it
should be possible to compete right now with manpower and animal-
power, in areas where fuels are available only at high prices.

The economics of solar energy does not look very attractive as
yet in fuel-rich, highly industrialized areas, but it should be attractive
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

now in nonindustrialized areas. High efficiency of the conversion
of expensive fuel into work and low labor requirements have been
the technological goals in industrialized countries. But sunshine is
almost free and so efficiency of conversion is less important. Low
capital investment and small repair requirements are much more
important than engine efficiency and low labor costs.

The need for new sources of power was clearly brought out at the
Geneva Conference on Atoms for Peace in 1955. It seemed clear
that atomic power can be produced on a large scale, in the future,
for only a few tenths of a cent per kilowatt hour more than coal-
generated power. It seemed clear, too, that atomic power can be pro-
vided in small units very soon at a price considerably higher than that
of coal-generated electricity. The price is not interesting in the
United States, but it was interesting to some of the nonindustrialized
nations. It was pointed out that to build conventional powerplants
in remote, nonindustrialized areas requires large capital investments
such as the building of railroads and freight cars and engines, and
the installation of coal-mining machinery. Atomic power requires
much less of these capital costs and so a higher price can be paid for
atomic power. The same considerations apply to solar energy. Be-
cause the costs of fuel and transportation of fuel are negligible and
because heavy capital investments for combustion fuel accessories
are eliminated, it is possible to pay more for sun-generated electricity
than the industrialized countries are accustomed to pay for coal- and
oil-generated electricity.

The difference in labor costs between industrialized and nonindus-
trialized areas should be considered also in the development of solar
energy. Adjusting mirrors to face the sun at frequent intervals and
dusting them off could perhaps be done for less than a dollar a day
by a bullock driver, turned solar operator. Operators in industrial-
ized countries might cost more than ten times as much. Hand opere-
tion then may be cheaper and simpler than automatic operation in
nonindustrialized countries, and it can permit a large reduction in the
cost of the equipment. In places where electricity is not available,
housewives would probably be glad to turn a wheel by hand at fre-
quent intervals in order to preserve the family’s food in a simple
solar-operated refrigerator.

Still another factor in our awakened interest in solar energy is the
development of new materials. Large areas of solar collectors are
required for the utilization of solar energy, and large areas of any
material are expensive. Machinery, metals, glass, and concrete cost
thousands of dollars per acre. We live in an age of plastics; and
thin plastics are now available which cost only hundreds of dollars
per acre. Here is a new frontier where we may have a chance of
cutting costs and making solar devices more economical.
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 241

There is much more to solar-energy utilization than the develop-
ment of solar engines. House heating, house cooling, refrigeration,
cooking, distillation of salt water are all parts of the picture which is
being suggested now and elaborated throughout this volume. Even in
the development of solar power for operating machines the long-
range hope lies not so much in heat engines as in photochemistry and
photoelectricity. But first let us see how much solar energy we need
and how much we have.

ABUNDANCE OF SOLAR ENERGY

In considering any new development, it is well to consider first
whether it is theoretically possible, next whether it is technically
feasible, and finally whether it is economically sound and socially
useful. The symposium was organized to discuss these questions.
Answering the first question, the total energy of the sun falling on
the earth is far more than is needed to do the world’s work and it is an
ever-continuing source of energy. To carry on the energy-rich civi-
lization of the United States, this country used, in 1952, 164,000 kilo-
calories of fuel energy or 190 kilowatt-hours of heat per person per
day. The per capita consumption of fuel by all the people of the
world was 24,000 kilocalories per day. The total energy from the
sun striking the land area of the United States is of the order of
270 million kilocalories, or 313,000 kilowatt-hours, per person per
day. The theoretically available supply far exceeds the need, but
at present there is no direct utilization of it because it is in the form
of low-temperature heat which is difficult to convert into work, and
difficult to store and transport.

These figures are based on an arbitrary assumption that the solar
radiation amounts to about one small calorie per minute per square
centimeter. It is more than this in Arizona and much less than this
in some other parts of the country, particularly in the wintertime.
This unit is too small to visualize. Earlier, I suggested a new unit of
solar radiation—the “roof,” which is a “million calories per minute.”
Tt is the solar radiation received by 100 square meters of flat surface
at the rate of 1,000 kilocalories per minute, or 60,000 kilocalories per
hour or 500,000 kilocalories, or 580 kilowatt-hours of heat per 500-
minute day. This 100-square-meter area is 1,075 square feet, about
the flat area of the roof of a square house which is 10 meters or 33 feet
on a side. A “roof-day” of 500,000 kilocalories is approximately
equivalent to two million B.t.u., which is the amount of heat evolved
by burning 150 pounds (about a man’s weight) of coal or 15 gallons
(almost an automobile tankful) of gasoline. If all the solar radiation
were used with 100 percent efficiency, a “roof-day” of radiation would
evaporate about 860 liters or 230 gallons of water.
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

If the solar energy could be converted into electricity through a
heat engine and dynamo, or through a photovoltaic cell with an
efficiency of 10 percent, one “roof” of radiation would generate about
7 kilowatts while the sun is shining at the rate of a million calories
per minute. If this electrical work is produced throughout 8 hours
of sunshine, but averaged over the whole 24-hour day, the roof would
produce at the rate of 2.3 kilowatts. A 5-percent efficiency would lead
to 3.5 kilowatts during sunshine and 1.2 kilowatts for the day’s aver-
age. The limits of 5 and 10 percent for conversion of heat into useful
electricity give an optimistic but not an impossible range.

SOCIAL IMPLICATIONS

Solar-energy utilization holds out special hope for improving the
standard of living in areas which have not yet become industrialized.
In marginal agricultural areas human labor can be conserved and
work animals with their high food consumption reduced—if some ex-
pert is able to come up with a sufficiently practical and inexpensive
solar engine. Pumping of water for agriculture, for household use,
and for sanitation is the most obvious use of solar energy. ‘There is no
way to make the sun shine at night and the intermittency of solar
energy is a powerful deterrent to its use. Water pumping is not
handicapped by this intermittency. Electric lights for homes and
villages might come next in importance, but for this purpose some sys-
tem of power storage must be provided, possibly for only a few hours.
Village industries, weaving, wood turning, furniture making, and
machine work might be encouraged with solar engines of 1 to 100
horsepower. Solar refrigeration could conserve food and make
possible the use of additional protein materials with a resulting
improvement in nutrition.

Solar heating and cooking are definite possibilities if the units are
cheap enough.

I have a letter from Mexico telling me that the women of the
village spend much of their time walking to the hills 6 miles away to
collect firewood for their cooking and heating. The letter goes on to
say, “We have plenty of sunshine all around. Can’t you do something
to help us?” Maybe wecan. Let’stry! The challenge is not only to
save time and labor for the housewife, but to conserve the soil against
erosion caused by removing the grass and shrubs for firewood. In
some areas the cow and camel dung now used for cooking fuel
might be saved for use as fertilizer.

Possibly the solar distillation of salt water and the solar heating
and cooling of houses might open up new land areas to settlement and
thus tend to relieve some of the world’s population pressures.

In some undeveloped and uninhabited areas, a premium price could
undoubtedly be paid for electricity, for pumping of water, and for
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 243

distilled fresh water. In tackling the economic problems of solar
energy, let us not be tied to the economic patterns and practices of
the highly industrialized countries. There may be places where
people would be glad to pay not 5 mils per kilowatt-hour for elec-
tricity, but 5 cents, because the whole economy and standard of
living would be raised.

We must not become too enthusiastic, however. There are many
places in the world with long, dark Arctic winters, or with cloud-
shrouded climates where the sun cannot help. It is well to remember,
though, that in a given area the heritage of sunlight is the same on all
the land. The same amount of solar energy falls on an acre of land,
whether it is city real estate costing thousands of dollars, rich farm
land costing hundreds of dollars, grazing lands costing tens of dollars,
or wasteland costing almost nothing.

In looking around for large areas of unused land to be occupied with
solar collectors, we might consider the rights-of-way at the sides of our
railroads and highways—perhaps a “roof” equivalent for every 10 or
20 feet.

Solar energy is primarily for the countryside and not for the cities.
When people are piled deep in multiple family apartments and there
is no vacant land, demands for power per square meter of sunlight
cannot possibly be met. No wonder a report on solar energy by a
committee of scientists in London was rather pessimistic.

Arizona is indeed a favored place with optimum sunshine through-
out the year and plenty of great open spaces. It should be an excellent
proving ground for industrial solar energy. The Bell solar battery
has shown that we may expect rapid progress through fundamental
research, perhaps in apparently unrelated fields. Let’s all join in the
fun of pushing back the frontiers of solar-energy research and
engineering.

DEVICES AND DIFFICULTIES

I would like to give you an introduction to some of the opportunities
that may lie ahead, and some of the devices and difficulties with which
we are all concerned. I hope that many new ideas for the utilization
of solar energy will be brought forth which will lead to a chain reaction
of additional ideas all over the world. I trust, too, that there are
many experts who will evaluate these approaches to solar-energy uti-
lization technically and economically and criticize them relentlessly.
There are plenty of fertile fields for solar exploration to be worked,
and the few active workers should not ordinarily waste their efforts
in unpromising areas. Early criticism may serve to direct our limited
research resources into more useful channels.

Let me divide the future development of solar energy into short
range and long range. About half the solar energy is light and half
944 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

heat. The light half, of course, can be used as heat also. Thus all the
energy is available as heat. We can start at once developing heat uses.
The principles are well known. The difficulty is in economics. Some
say just wait for new technological developments and new materials.
The technological ceiling will certainly rise. Yes, but it rises only be-
cause a few pioneers like to bump their heads against the ceiling. Let’s
start now on large-scale experimentation and pilot plants using the
heat of the sun for heating, cooling, distillation, and for solar-heat
engines. Let’s accelerate our fundamental research in trying to use the
light of the sun. We are a long way behind in competing with agri-
culture, but agriculture in turn utilizes only a small fraction of the
solar energy which it could theoretically utilize. The greatest long-
range hope lies in photochemistry and photoelectricity.

Intensive research and development should be directed toward uti-
lizing solar heat to help the nonindustrialized countries now and
toward utilizing the solar light at some later time.

SOLAR ENGINES

Solar engines require a higher temperature than is ordinarily needed
for house heating, absorption refrigeration, or for distillation of salt
water. This higher temperature can be achieved through concentra-
tion of the light onto a small area with the help of parabolic or para-
bolic-cylindrical mirrors; or by heat traps with multiple glass plates
which allow sunlight to pass through, but which minimize the loss of
heat in the form of long infrared radiation from the heated receiver.
The focusing type of engine has the advantage of reducing the area
of the boiler and this, in turn, reduces the heat losses and the cost of
equipment. It is, however, nearly useless except in direct sunshine.
The flat plate collectors will continue some operation on cloudy days.
The focusing type may well be more suitable for sunny climates and
the flat plate collectors more suitable for regions in which the direct
sunlight is frequently cut off by clouds. In either case, the important
problem is to keep the capital cost low. Large areas of reflectors or
glass plates are expensive.

STORAGE OF POWER

Intermittency is one of the handicaps of solar energy. There is no
way by which the sun can be made to shine at night. There are
many ways in which mechanical or electrical power can be stored.
The question is the economic cost. An engine can pump water up to
an elevated reservoir, and as the water falls back to ground level it
can do work in a water turbine. The difficulty with this method is
the high cost of a reservoir which has appreciable capacity. One
kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to 4,100 cubic feet of water or
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 245

116,000 liters falling through a height of 10 feet. If a hydroelectric
plant or an abandoned mine or a large diving bell in a lake or ocean
is available the cost may not be so great. At Austin, Tex., a steam
powerplant pumps water back from a low reservoir to a high reservoir
when electricity is not much in demand and then the full hydroelectric
power is available for peak loads.

Standard electric power grids are well suited to help overcome the
intermittent nature of solar energy. When the sun is shining the coal
supply or the dammed-up water supply can be conserved. The de-
mand for air conditioning is creating new problems with the peak
loads of electrical power systems. The sun is usually shining
brightest when the air conditioning is needed most.

Power can be stored also in the form of high-temperature heat.
One kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to 860 kilocalories which
is equivalent to a 10-degree C. drop in the temperature of 86 liters
of water. Heat to run a steam engine for a while after sundown
might be stored in a large insulated hot-water tank or in fused mate-
rial such as urea with its melting point of 125 degrees C. and its
heat of fusion of 50 calories per gram. Huttig has proposed to
store heat for operating an engine in an iron sphere heated electri-
cally to a high temperature. The ratio of heat storage to radiating
surface is comparatively low. It must be remembered that 1 kilo-
watt-hour of heat gives only about 0.1 kilowatt-hour or less of
work in a small heat engine.

The electrolysis of water and storage of the hydrogen and oxy-
gen in underground gas tanks with water seals offer possibilities.
The gases may be combined to operate a high-temperature gas tur-
bine. One kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to the heat of com-
bustion of about 10 cubic feet of hydrogen. The stored hydrogen
and oxygen may be used directly to operate a hydrogen-oxygen
“fuel cell” with nickel electrodes in a fused salt bath at a high tem-
perature. Good laboratory progress is being made in obtaining
efliciencies up to 60 and 70 percent with fuel cells.

HOUSE HEATING

House heating is one of the theoretically simple uses of solar energy
because the temperature does not have to be high. Flat plate col-
lectors give satisfactory heat traps and focusing devices are not
necessary. However, large surfaces are necessary and architectural
difficulties arise. The storage of heat may be accomplished with
pebble beds, hot-water storage tanks, or chemicals which undergo
fusion or transition in crystal form. Competition of solar heating
against cheap coal, oil, and gas is difficult, but inasmuch as about
one-third of the fuel consumption in the United States goes for
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

space heating it is clear that there are important conservation as-
pects to solar house heating. In northern climates the capital cost
of large heat-storage capacities is so great that it seems wise to
use small auxiliary plants operating on conventionel fuel in addition
to the solar heating plant.

In those areas where fuel is expensive and wood and shrubbery
need to be conserved in order to minimize soil erosion, there is a
special need for solar house heating. In areas of greatest need there
is likely to be both a scarcity of fuel and an absence of electricity
What then is to be used in the solar heating plant for circulating
air or water through the heat storage bins? Circulation by natural
convection is usually not enough. Efforts should be made to de-
velop an inexpensive, solar-operated device for circulating air or
water.

When ample electricity is available the use of a heat pump offers
attractive possibilities with a reservoir of heat produced by solar
radiation.

REFRIGERATION AND HOUSE COOLING

Household refrigeration is one of the most urgent fields for the
utilization of solar energy. Nutritional deficiencies among people
living in tropical areas could be reduced by providing cheap re-
frigerators for preserving proteins and other foods. The potential
market all over the world for refrigerators and house cooling is tre-
mendous.

In the United States with its abundant supply of electricity, re-
frigeration developments have followed mechanical refrigeration
with moving parts powered by electric motors. The absorption and
desorption of ammonia in water and other similar types of refrig-
eration are probably simpler and more efficient. Intensive research
on small solar-operated cooling systems should include not only
absorption and desorption of gases in solutions, but also adsorp-
tion and desorption of gases on solid surfaces and dehydration sys-
tems in which the dissolved water is driven out of a solution with
solar heat and the dry high-boiling liquid is then ready to absorb
more water vapor.

DISTILLATION OF SEA WATER

A million calories per minute or 500,000 kilocalories per day of
solar energy striking an area of 100 square meters could theoreti-
cally support enough heat to vaporize about a milion grams of water,
which is a layer of water 1 centimeter or 0.4 inch deep. Practically,
of course, the efliciency would be low and solar distillation would
normally correspond to less than 0.2 inch cf rain. Multiple stills
are possible in which some of the heat of condensation of the water
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 247

is used to vaporize fresh water, but the cost of such stills is very
high. Premium prices can be paid in some areas for domestic and
household water and for drinking water for animals. Here the solar
distillation of salt water is particularly attractive. Egypt, Asia,
Australia, and parts of the United States have significant regions for
practical tests.

Solar-distilled water cannot easily compete with irrigation water
because the investment costs of the necessarily large areas of water-
containing vessels and glass or plastic are so high. New cheap,
weather-resistant plastics are needed which are impervious to water
vapor, but are wetted by liquid water and able to withstand years
of bright sunlight. Also needed is a solar-operated circulating fan
which will circulate air where electrical power is not available.

PHOTOCHEMISTRY

The long-range hope for the direct utilization of solar energy lies
in photochemistry and photoelectricity. The research goal in photo-
chemistry is to find a suitable reaction which can be produced by
sunlight with the absorption of energy, and then allowed to reverse
itself at will in the dark with the evolution of energy. Many endo-
thermic photochemical reactions reverse themselves so rapidly that
they merely convert light energy into heat and are not suitable for
storing energy. ‘There is a chance that some of the photoproducts
will give up electrons to a wire and thus produce an electric current.
Most photochemical reactions are spontaneous reactions in which the
light merely accelerates the reaction rate, and the reaction does not
reverse itself in the dark. Again, many of the promising endothermic
reactions respond only to ultraviolet light, which does not exist in
sunlight to an appreciable extent. The photochemical challenge is a
difficult one.

The fact that photosynthesis exists and carbon dioxide and water
combine photochemically in the presence of chlorophyll in the growing
plant gives encouragement to those who are trying to use the sun
photochemically. The end products of photosynthesis are carbohy-
drates and other organic materials which, on combustion, will give
back the carbon dioxide and water and release the stored energy. ‘The
first chemical step in photosynthesis is the release of hydrogen atoms.
In trying to copy and improve on nature, it may be easier to store
the solar energy in hydrogen rather than in carbohydrates and other
products produced by further reduction of the carbon dioxide.
Although hydrogen cannot be used for food, it can readily be used
for fuel.

Photosynthesis is a remarkable process which we are just beginning
to understand. In the laboratory under special conditions it can be

4925205917
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

made efficient. Thirty percent of the light energy absorbed (cor-
responding to 8 photons per molecule) can be stored and released at a
later time by combustion. In agriculture only a small fraction of
one percent of the annual solar energy is stored. There are many
reasons for this low efliciency. The half of the solar radiation which
is in the infrared is ineffective; the growing season lasts for only a
third of a year and the ground is entirely covered with green leaves
for only a part of this time; the carbon dioxide of the air is too low
in concentration; and, most important of all, the sunlight is much too
bright for maximum efficiency. As a result of all these handicaps
agriculture in the temperate zones of the world ordinarily grows
only about 2 tons of dry organic material per acre per year.

The mass culture of algae can probably produce about ten times
as much organic material, but a heavy capital investment is required
for water tanks, carbon dioxide enrichment, fertilizers, cooling equip-
ment, and harvesting machinery. Research to reduce these costs
should be encouraged. One of the best approaches is the develop-
ment of algae which will grow in hot water and thus eliminate the
need for artificial cooling.

The Bell Telephone Co.’s solar battery is one of the most hopeful
developments in photochemistry. It was the result of fundamental
research in solid-state physics—a field supposedly far removed from
that of solar energy. The single crystals of silicon which form the
battery are too expensive now, but intensive research should be en-
couraged in an attempt to find substitutes. Perhaps very cheap
electroplated films and vaporized films of semiconducting material
should be explored to see if they cannot be made pure enough and
similar enough in properties to those of a single crystal.

CONCLUSIONS

I would like to make two suggestions. We work in a heretofore
neglected field with no adequate means of publication. Let’s start
now an international “Journal of Solar Energy Research and En-
gineering.” Science develops exponentially when its scientists can
build on the work of others. Rapid publication of results is the life
blood of a vigorous science. No single scientific journal is now in
existence which is read alike by the many types of engineers and
scientists which make up this group. Lack of a proper medium for
publishing their research has been a deterrent to young scientists
on the threshold of a professional career and who might go into the
development of solar energy.

You have heard of the Geophysical Year sponsored by the United
Nations through ICSU which in turn appoints committees and solicits
support from national governments. Perhaps we can have a Solar
THE SUN’S ENERGY—DANIELS 249

Decade, if we want it. Shall we ask ICSU for an international com-
mittee on solar energy ?

What can industry do to accelerate the utilization of solar energy ?
Among the most obvious aids would be mass production of large para-
bolic mirrors of aluminum pressed out with dies, or of plastics with
vaporized metallic films. Small, low-pressure steam turbines or
steam engines, die-cast and produced in mass could help greatly to
relieve human labor in some of the nonindustrialized areas. One- to
ten- or fifty-horsepower engines of sufficiently low cost could find an
immediate and large foreign market with some domestic demand,
even if the engines are quite ineflicient. The development of thin
plastics is needed for collectors of solar energy and particularly for
the distillation of salt water. Special characteristics are needed such
as wetting by water and opaqueness in the far infrared, but the chief
demands are for low cost and ability to withstand years of exposure
to bright sunlight.

Storage batteries at less than one-tenth the cost of automobile bat-
teries are needed, but they do not need to be small and portable.
While laboratory research goes on for new ideas and new methods,
studies of mass production of new materials and new machines by
industry may well lead to rapid advances in the utilization of the
sun’s energy.

Solar-energy utilization is rapidly coming of age. Many people
have become interested and steady progress will be made. But don’t
expect miracles. We must go back to our Jaboratories and roll up
our sleeves with ideas newly stimulated and try to extract more value
from our sunshine. It is there for us, if we can be smart enough to
find it.

But I am confident that the scientists and engineers can and will
bring a new era of prosperity and peace to the whole world. The
“Atoms for Peace” conference of the United Nations in 1955 opened
up a great new hope for atomic power. Perhaps Arizona’s “Sun
for Man’s Use” conference will be just as important. The first
half of our century may go down in history as the period of great wars,
and it is not impossible that the second half of the century may come
to be known as the beginning of a peaceful, power-abundant era in
man’s evolution. We know now that through research there is a
chance that we can have mechanical power and electricity all over
the world; and a greater equalization of industria] productivity in
all countries may tend to lessen war tensions. I believe that by a
judicious combination of fossil fuels, atomic energy, and solar energy
the whole world can have within this century all the mechanical
power and material comforts that it wants. This development will
not solve all the world’s problems, because man does not live by kilo-
watts alone; but it will help.
CREME Tee OO hatteoby Br Pek vy ars

oa a = A
‘ “ke a oe 4 hi ea Ae yi yh ;

‘ i a. aie CL aan
Ape ee tf yey Pee od al ta $y Wy e ci 7 ar i 7 yy " : ia
tiyeh YT if it} MOD eee Bie TiN.

: y ChE MOLy mi oy i) PWR Ly 4 nh bax yy
¢ Piya 04 |e a is .) : : | ; at 7 )
ay ava sik. fie TH roi tie 6if} RD Oy B. a i
ATK Saye) i ROEM VE one a We)
Mh ab idaaley Fis Ye eee Py, isis ney

Re ROPES AP (Rie FE Ui era eye

Ve
Mil aj F f f
a ea a tian Presvewy he rr ins Fis Le eV Easy be 4hivi ene
Co ort) irl Ge eae ae ae ,
ei Mrs TRAE ITE h Sil anti HOD 2 Py, Dee oP
f 7 ‘ ‘.
Hersh f ity spegy yh het pete fl ves i ' ah
ie% ; ‘ rs
, } 22s BY } hay yr
nude : 37 ig Peis
iff yi \ ri
‘ piest-of i
Che Cie P ; y
i 4 r N, ‘ OTF os Wee ~ i 7 Of lis
t t
PS of i { ‘ wet Basis é |
4 it f A
4
1: ; ‘
cease Cyl Fibce p fe rT ip} a a ; i
Py Py
iy FAO yyy See dot t yee , f i i
ti. 7?
pies af (i tity iff :] t
fé
ig tay fj ra rte al f f 4 aah y :
Poe t : ‘ ! rp
rm
SPE it
' if
f ‘
ag J Ps r
yh ; ’ ’ We) ;
a lie H , be {
rré FE ;
i many ’ rat ‘
Kiet ' i -
' | Bay fi H THis iJ yt ee ig
t :
{¢ > 4
f t tay 7
j j it iu an) a va
fs fen ae
) A H :
+ { i } i : seve ) F
i a 7 7
he CEISEU 0 Bre oy Ne ig ; a!
Reh She it ag rq A PARES DEE LPG oie | Men eh:
iz it vet { ‘ +4 i
igh ‘yar fe ° ws ' ; i , A vot an ¥ J
| Bact ih SEW ati gE rch “oorint a
Sey 5 4 } f pe sf ;
er! i) PS SAM TCS ES fay od eee sine ‘sary
4m P| ats ed Sek Peat aN EES f {i 49 9 BABE:
al ; i ORNS Pielt sda
ag Cre Pirie, B14 ak ’
ct ee eta 1 5: brtoite Atty sit allieinpeld }
ei ts Aes neg i peure ae acd is Ps
BOLIC POEL th otRS a Bt, Rie ee? reels AA

ip 4g

ars

BS eter UY! steer elt reel | BU | otk, Papers $5 afi
; he Ai wt i) es Troe Thats irigelosine OF Li ih Hy * 6%

ay fst leissFy a ho eee nee tits Ring 1 gee
Ogi ley 3 fe were pits eyes ¥ “G43 0 tsar Pye Riz i) ririh Ma
HY ath ey De lateg, lft j , a mf } a
price Tiel tania a icnctn tani Tiss, Ld teat tan

Larne? safe Sie Tuten: Heh! aur -ceogen’ Glide
5.

. Nae Si teehee ey ae a!
ete NEE oy Patchett ted ae est LP eth Meese

lat ifive ied a

Sun, Sea, and Air’

By Rocer REVELLE

Director, Scripps Institution of Oceanography
University of California
La Jolla, Calif.

Tue Great saca of the Norse kings, the “Heimskringla,” begins
with the words “Earth’s round face, whereon mankind dwells.” The
Vikings, like other primitive peoples, thought of Earth as their home
and of themselves as its creatures. Today we know that Earth is the
only planet of our solar system on which human life could have
developed, for no other satellite of our sun has land masses sur-
rounded by an ocean of liquid water or an atmosphere containing
abundant free oxygen.

Our bodies are made up almost entirely of four elements drawn
from sea water and air: hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, and nitrogen.
The narrow temperature range in which we can survive is maintained
by the great heat capacity of the sea and the atmosphere. The waste
products that otherwise would suffocate us are continuously dispersed
by the easy motions of the atmosphere. We can exist as land animals
only because the sun’s deadly ultraviolet and X-rays are fended off
by the protective shield of the air, and because the great natural en-
gine of the sea and the atmosphere pumps water continuously from
the sea surface and pours it gently down upon the land.

Yet from our point of view, the earth is a careless mother. Large
areas of her surface are too hot or too cold, too dry, or too wet to sup-
port any large number of human beings. Moreover, she is unreliable.
Areas where there was once sufficient water for men to build civiliza-
tions are now so dry that only a few desperate nomads can live in them.
Elsewhere, a mile-thick blanket of ice has crept down and obliterated
once green farms and forests. Millions of our species suffer when a
slight change in the running of the sea-atmosphere engine causes
drought or flood. Sometimes the engine runs with unpleasant violence.
Then thunderstorms and hurricanes, tornadoes, and typhoons bring
destruction and death to many of us.

1 Reprinted by permission from Oceanus, vol. 5, Nos. 3 and 4, summer and autumn 1957.

251
Zoe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Because of our dependence on events taking place in the air, almost
everyone is an amateur meteorologist. Wherever two or more people
are gathered together the first topic of conversation is the weather, and
this was probably just as true in the time of Hammurabi or Amenhotep
asitistoday. Professional weathermen are a new development, how-
ever, and it has only been within the last few decades that we have
begun to gain an understanding of the great interrelated mechanisms
of the air and the oceans.

THE SUN

We know that the sun pours a flood of particles and visible and in-
visible light into the top of our atmosphere. The amount of visible
light appears to be nearly constant, but the intensity of ultraviolet and |
X-rays and the number of particles vary by at least a hundredfold.
The particles are chiefly electrons and protons. The average number
of hydrogen nuclei entering our atmosphere is surprisingly large, per-
haps a billion per square centimeter per second. During the geological
lifetime of the earth, if all this hydrogen were combined with oxygen
as water, it would correspond to a layer over the ocean about 20 meters
thick. The energy carried to the earth by these particles from the sun
during periods of sunspot activity may be as much as one-tenth of the
total energy of sunlight.

In addition to particles of ordinary hydrogen, there is new evidence
that most of the tritium or radioactive hydrogen on earth also comes
from the sun. It was formerly thought that all the tritium was pro-
duced by cosmic rays bombarding nitrogen and oxygen molecules in
the upper air, but recent calculations indicate that the amount present
ig nearly ten times too large to be produced in this way.

The marked variations in ultraviolet radiation and in the number of
particles coming from the sun cause large variations in the temperature
and in the electrical and magnetic behavior of the upper atmosphere,
because there is such a small amount of air at these high levels. Neither
the majority of particles nor the ultraviolet rays penetrate very deeply,
however, and it is not clear whether the variations in the amounts
coming from the sun have appreciable effects near the earth’s surface.
Visible light is the dominant form of solar energy entering the lower
atmosphere. Part of this light is reflected back to space, chiefly from
the surface of clouds, snow, and ice. Most of it is absorbed in the
atmosphere and the sea, from which it is ultimately re-radiated as
infrared radiation.

In this respect, the atmosphere behaves much like the glass in a
greenhouse. It easily transmits visible hight but is rather opaque
to the infrared or heat radiation coming from the ground and the
sea surface. Just as in a greenhouse, the air temperature must be
considerably warmer than it would be in the absence of materials
SUN, SEA, AND AIR—REVELLE 253

that absorb infrared, in order to allow a balance between incoming
and outgoing radiation. In the greenhouse the absorbing material
is the glass roof. The corresponding materials in the atmosphere
are three substances present in quite minor amounts: water vapor,
carbon dioxide, and ozone.

The temperatures in the upper air do not vary markedly with
latitude and consequently the amount of back radiation is roughly
the same all over the globe. But the amount of incoming sunlight
is greater in the Tropics than in high latitudes. As a consequence,
air and water warmed in the Tropics must move toward the Poles.
Part of the energy received from the sun is thus used to carry the
excess heat absorbed in low latitudes to high latitudes where it can
be re-radiated. The amount of heat transported across the parallels
of 30° is 10 to 20 percent of the total incoming radiation, but the
mechanical work involved is less than 1 percent.

HEAT ENGINES

The situation can be thought of as if the sea and the atmosphere
were interlinked heat engines of very low efficiency. These engines
do mechanical work against friction by carrying the working fluids,
sea water and air, from the “firebox” of the Tropics to the radiation-
cooled “condenser” of the polar regions. The circulation of the work-
ing fluids is manifest in the winds of the air and the currents of the
sea. In the atmosphere, it takes place through the coupling of rotary
current patterns of all possible shapes and sizes. These include the
trade-wind cells of oceanwide dimensions, the large-scale high- and
low-pressure areas of midlatitudes, the wavelike jet stream, hurri-
canes, tornadoes, tiny whirls and vortices. In the sea, major units
of the circulation include the Gulf Stream and the Kuroshio, the fast-
moving equatorial currents and the sluggish currents of the abyssal
depths. These circulation patterns are partly unstable, and show
themselves to those of us who live in midlatitudes as the radical
changes in weather with which we are all familiar. In low latitudes
over the ocean the instability produces the terrifying hurricanes of
the western Pacific and of our own east coast.

The behavior of the interlinked heat engines of the sea and the at-
mosphere is profoundly influenced by four facts: First is their
peculiar shape; they are essentially two thin sheets wrapped around
a sphere. Second, the sphere is rotating; the lower layers of air
are dragged along by the rotation, and the movements of both the
sea and the air are largely determined by the forces generated by
the rotation (at a height above our heads of several hundred miles
there is a transition to a zone where the sparse atoms of gas no longer
move around the earth’s axis). Third, the ocean is not a continuous
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

sheet like the atmosphere, but is broken up by the relatively dry areas
we call continents. Fourth, like an invisible pousse-café, the atmos-
phere is stratified in thin layers that do not mix readily with each
other, and each of these layers has to a considerable extent a separate
behavior of its own. The same is true of the ocean but with the
marked difference that while the temperatures of the different layers
of the atmosphere are alternatively lower and higher as we go up-
ward, the temperature of the ocean decreases continuously nearly
to the freezing point at great depths. It increases slightly near the
bottom because of the heat coming from the interior of the earth.

The energy needed to drive the sea-air circulation is only a small
portion of the incoming solar radiation, but it is still enormous on
a human scale. The winds of the earth have a total kinetic energy
estimated to equal 7 million atomic bombs, or more electric power
than all the powerplants in the United States could produce in a
hundred years. This energy must be replenished every 9 to 12 days
because of the loss by friction between the winds and the earth’s
surface.

Although there is a general agreement about the foregoing generali-
zations, our mental model of the sea-atmosphere system is so inade-
quate in many essentials that meteorologists are unable to predict
anything very useful for more than a few days in advance about the
circulation of the atmosphere.

CLIMATIC CHANGES

Even more fundamentally, we do not know the factors that deter-
mine the average conditions. Consequently, we are quite unable to
forecast changes in climate. Yet we know that such changes have
occurred in the relatively recent past. Only about 10,000 years ago
the earth emerged from a dark age of snow and ice; less than 5,000
years ago, Greenland offered a fair and pleasant habitation for human
beings. Within the last 50 years, the climate over eastern North
America and northern Europe has again become slightly warmer
and the Arctic wastes are perhaps again becoming accessible to human
beings, while elsewhere prolonged droughts are destroying the work
and hopes of decades. For the farmer, the strategist, and the states-
man, an accurate forecast of climatic change over the next 50 years
would be of immeasurable value. But such a forecast is completely
beyond our present ability. Ability to forecast depends on under-
standing, and this comes in two interrelated ways: by constructing
small models in our heads of the two great earth fluids, and by testing
and refining these models through observations. This second method
is one of the major objectives of the International Geophysical Year.
In particular, we are concerned with measurements in areas that have
SUN, SEA, AND AIR—REVELLE 255

never been adequately explored and of phenomena that have never
been adequately studied.

To increase our understanding of climatic change we can ask first,
what changes have occurred in the past and how did they happen?
Second, because a change in climate is essentially a change of average
air temperature, we need to examine the ways in which the heat con-
tent of the air can vary. The heat content must be that required
to give a balance between incoming and outgoing radiation; hence it
can vary if there is a change in the amount of incoming radiation
from the sun, in the proportion of sunlight reflected versus that ab-
sorbed, or in the amount of the infrared back radiation absorbed
by carbon dioxide, water vapor, and ozone. A 1-percent change in
the intensity of the incoming sunlight or in the amount of sunlight
reflected back to space would give about a 1° centigrade change in
the average air temperature.

The total solar radiation seems to be remarkably constant. The
most recent continuous observations are those made at the Lowell
Observatory since 1953. During this period of sunspot minimum
no solar variations in the blue region of the spectrum greater than
0.38 percent have occurred. lIonospheric observations show, however,
that ultraviolet components of the solar radiation are larger during
periods of sunspot maxima, and the visual spectrum observations
must therefore be continued throughout at least one sunspot cycle
before we can say definitely that solar radiation is virtually constant
over decades.

In contrast to the apparent constancy of the incoming radiation, the
reflectivity of the earth would appear to be easily changeable. Clouds,
snow, and ice reflect most of the sunlight that falls on them, whereas
the ocean surface, vegetation, and bare ground are highly absorbing
for visible light. At present about 50 percent of the earth’s surface is
normally covered with clouds, while large areas are capped with snow
and ice, particularly during winter. An average of 35 percent of the
incoming sunlight is reflected back to space without being absorbed.
The average air temperature would decrease by 1° centigrade if the
reflection increased to 36 percent through increased cloudiness or a
spreading of the snow- and ice-covered areas.

Dust in the upper air also scatters and reflects sunlight before it can
reach the ground and ocean surfaces. After the explosion of the vol-
eano Krakatoa in 1883, the incoming radiation from the sun and sky
decreased by 5 to 10 percent for three years. Changes in the water
vapor, ozone, or carbon dioxide content of the air alter the amount
and character of the infrared absorption. Calculations indicate that
a 25-percent change in the carbon dioxide content of the air would
change the average air temperature by 1° centigrade.
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The factors affecting the average air temperature are interrelated ;
there are in fact what electronic engineers call “feedback” relation-
ships among them. ‘These feedback linkages are both positive and
negative. For example, an increase of air temperature from whatever
cause would result in a melting of part of the snow and ice cover of
the earth and a corresponding reduction in the reflection. Conse-
quently, the amount of absorbed radiation would increase and the
temperature would rise still further. This is a positive feedback.
Similarly, an increase of average air temperature would increase the
evaporation from the oceans; hence the water-vapor content of the air
and absorption of infrared radiation. The temperature would not
increase without limit, however, because an increase in evaporation
must eventually result in an increase of cloudiness as the water vapor
condenses; hence an increase in the proportion of refiected sunlight.
This is a negative feedback. Such complex feedback linkages tend to
hunt or oscillate, with time constants determined by the speed of the
different processes involved.

Thus far we have been discussing comparatively small changes in
average air temperature over the earth. Such changes may be of
great significance—it is generally estimated by meteorologists that
a 4-degree drop in average air temperature would be sufficient to bring
on anew ice age. But with present meteorological observing facilities
they would be almost impossible to measure. What is observed are
local changes of much greater magnitude. These must be brought
about chiefly by variations in atmospheric and perhaps oceanic cir-
culation, specifically in the locations of north-south transport of heat
and matter.

For example, the January mean temperature at Spitsbergen in-
creased by 24 degrees from 1913 to 1937, whereas during almost the
same period there was a 3 to 5 degree drop in January mean tempera-
ture in the Great Basin of the western United States.

Because of the complex relationship between the amounts of inso-
lation and infrared absorption on the one hand and the circulation
patterns of north-south transport on the other, it is by no means cer-
tain whether an increase of insolation or absorption would bring on
a colder or a warmer climate.

PAST CHANGES

The circulation patterns are profoundly affected by the distribution
of continents and oceans, and therefore it is of great importance to
make comparative studies of past climatic changes in the Northern
and Southern Hemispheres, because of their markedly different pat-
terns of sea and land. Since changes in the intensity of the north-
south circulation should have different effects in high and low latitudes,
SUN, SEA, AND AIR—REVELLE 257

it is also necessary to attempt to determine the nature of simultaneous
climatic changes in different latitude zones.

The great ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland and the mountain
glaciers throughout the world are remarkable indicators of climatic
change. During periods of warming or reduced precipitation the gla-
ciers retreat ; when the atmosphere is cooled or snowfall increases, they
thicken and rapidly advance. Moreover, the layers of ice laid down
in successive years constitute an unrivaled record of events on earth
during past millennia.

Many aspects of glaciers will be studied during the IGY. Among
the most significant from the standpoint of the heat and water budget
of the earth will be the thickness of the ice. This will be measured by
the seismic techniques used in prospecting for oil. Bore holes and
cores will also be taken to study the frozen record of the past.

Ice caps now cover about 3 percent of the earth’s surface. A melt-
ing of 2 feet per year over these surfaces seems quite possible from
present data. This would result in a rise of sea level of about an inch
per year or roughly 10 feet in 100 years. Even such a rise as this
would bring serious consequences to many thickly populated coastal
areas.

The sediments of the deep sea floor, like the ice caps, contain a de-
tailed climatic record extending back over many thousands of years.
For example, variations in the numbers of limy shells of the tiny ani-
mals called Foraminifera reflect variations in the oceanic circulation
near the surface. The ratios of oxygen isotopes in these shells tell us
something about past ocean temperatures. At least part of the pres-
ent temperature differences we can measure between different layers
in deep sea sediments may be the result not of heat flow from the
earth’s interior but of warmer temperature of the deep ocean waters
a few hundreds or thousands of years ago. Studies of these sediments
and their significance for climatic change will be an important part of
the series of oceanographic expeditions to be conducted during the
International Geophysical Year.

The meteorologist and the oceanographer can seldom use that peer-
less tool of the laboratory scientist—controlled experiment. As sub-
stitutes for experiment they must attempt to make comparative inves-
tigations of the behavior of the earth fluids under different conditions.
For this reason a major part of the IGY meterological program will be
focused on comparisons between the Southern and the Northern
Hemispheres.

Because the earth is closer to the sun in January than in July,
the Southern Hemisphere receives about 6 percent more radiation in
summer than does the Northern. The geometry of the two hemi-
spheres is also quite different. In the north, the Polar Sea with its
thin, cracked skin of ice is surrounded by continents; in the south a
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

continent nearly twice the size of the United States, having an ice-
covered surface 2 miles above sea level, lies at the Pole and is sur-
rounded by the great southern ocean. This high central plateau,
sheathed in darkness for 6 months each year, is a focal point for
inward-circling storms and outward surges of cold air. The weather
conditions in the Antarctic are nearly incredible; for example, wind
velocities at Adelie Land have averaged 110 miles per hour for a day,
more than 60 miles per hour for a month, and about 40 miles per hour
for an entire year. The American IGY party now maintaining a
vigil at the South Pole has already recorded temperatures below
— 100° F. with 15- to 20-knot winds.

As is well known, the testing of large atomic weapons produces
considerable amounts of radioactive substances, some of which decay
rather slowly. A large part of the radioactive material produced by
atomic weapons tests is injected into upper strata of the air and can
be used by meteorologists as a tracer of atmospheric movements, for
example, to determine the rate at which the air at different levels is
carried from the Northern to the Southern Hemisphere and vice
versa, and the rate of mixing between the upper and the lower atmos-
phere. An important IGY objective will be worldwide measurements
of these artificially radioactive substances.

GAINS AND LOSSES

A slight excess or deficit in the input of solar energy over the output
of infrared radiation from the earth may cause large changes in
weather and, if long continued, in climate. At present we are unable
to determine whether such differences between income and outgo exist.

Here the earth satellite program shows great promise; one of the
first satellites will carry relatively simple equipment for measuring
the difference between the amounts of incoming and outgoing radia-
tion at all points over its path. Later satellite experiments will
include actual mapping of the earth’s cloud and snow cover, allowing
accurate and continuous measurements of the amount of sunlight
reflected from the earth, a quantity that can at present only be rather
crudely estimated.

A change in average air temperature represents, of course, a gain
or loss of heat from the air, but it need not represent a gain or loss
from the ocean-atmosphere-glacier system of the earth. On the other
hand, an excess of heat could be stored for long periods on the earth
without much change in the temperature of the lower air. There are
two great mechanisms for this one: one is the melting of ice caps, the
other is the heating of the deep waters of the ocean. The latter has by
far the larger capacity. The energy required to melt all the ice in
Antarctica is equivalent to about 214 years’ supply from the sun at the
present rate of 175,000 calories per square centimeter each year. This
SUN, SEA, AND AIR—-REVELLE 259

same amount of energy would raise the average temperature of the
ocean by only a little more than 1° C. (On the other hand, the melt-
ing of ice caps would be somewhat more obvious to everyone, since it
would result in a rise of sea level by at least 200 feet, and the conse-
quent destruction of most of the world’s largest cities!)

Because of the great heat capacity of the ocean, many meteorolo-
gists and oceanographers now believe that climatic changes lasting
over decades or centuries may be intimately related to changes in
the circulation of the deep sea. Effective techniques for studying this
circulation have become available only in the last few years, and it
is little understood. We know that cold water sinks to great depths
from the surface in high latitudes, moves slowly toward the Equator
and perhaps across it, and returns by an unknown path to the start-
ing point. The time required for the round trip is not known; it
may be measured in decades or millennia. Nor do we know whether
the circulation is steady or intermittent like the flushing of water in
a bowl.

One of the major enterprises of the International Geophysical
Year will be a series of great oceanographic expeditions, conducted
by 70 ships belonging to many countries. Their principal objective
will be to obtain a comprehensive picture of the temperature and
other properties of the deep sea waters, and to make direct and in-
direct measurements of their motions.

THE EARTH AND MAN

President Eisenhower has said that water is rapidly becoming our
most critical natural resource. During the last few years, serious
attempts have been made to develop inexpensive machines for convert-
ing sea water into fresh water. The fact is, of course, that nature
herself operates a most effective distillation system. Nearly one-third
of all the energy of sunlight falling on the sea surface is utilized in
converting sea water to fresh water by evaporation. The immense
quantity of solar power used in this way is several thousand times
all the power produced by our industrial society from hydroelectric
power and the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas.

The total quantity of water evaporated, if all of it fell on the
surface of the land and was uniformly distributed, would result in
an average rainfall of over 100 inches a year. Evidently the trouble
with the natural distillation process is not the quantity of fresh
water produced, but rather that nature’s pipelines are badly placed.
Too much water moves to some areas and not enough to others; more-
over, the valve system seems to be capriciously managed. Sometimes
the discharge is too great, bringing floods, while at other lines there is
only a trickle and droughts occur.

Can anything be done about this faulty distribution system ?
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The quantity of solar energy used in driving the engine of the sea
and the atmosphere is so great compared to any of the energy
sources under man’s control that it would seem impossible for us
to affect weather or climate materially by any human action. Yet,
a close look shows there may be some things we could do. Many of
the processes in the atmosphere are metastable: a slight action may
initiate a very large-scale process. We might learn how to regulate
climate if we could find the right lever to pull.

One may predict that with the coming of greater understanding,
promising methods for contro] of weather and climate will be found.
The average reflectivity of the ground surface over the large areas
might be reduced, for example, by rapid melting of the snow cover,
thus increasing the percentage of sunlight absorbed. On the other
hand, it might be possible to shut off some of the sun’s radiation
before it reaches the earth’s surface, for example, by injecting a small
amount of absorbing or reflecting substances into the upper atmos-
phere.

GREAT EXPERIMENT

During our lifetime we may be witnessing an example of one way
in which human actions can affect weather and climate. Since the
beginning of the industrial revolution, an amount of carbon dioxide
equal to about 12 percent of the total already present in the atmosphere
has been produced by the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas. The
ability of the ocean to absorb carbon dioxide is very great and prob-
ably most of the amount added to the atmosphere during the last
century has gone into the sea. During the next hundred years, how-
ever, the increasing use of fossil fuels in our worldwide industrial
civilization should result in the production of about 1,700 billion tons
of carbon dioxide—70 percent of the amount now in the atmosphere.
Because of the rapid increase in the production rate, the fraction of
the added carbon dioxide absorbed by the ocean will be lessened and
an increase of perhaps 20 percent in atmospheric carbon dioxide can
be expected. The effect of such an increase is not easy to predict,
but there is some theoretical reason to believe that it could result in
a warming of the lower atmosphere by several degrees. Thus, by
consuming within a few generations the fossil fuels laid down in
sedimentary rocks over many hundreds of millions of years, we are
conducting, more or less in spite of ourselves, a great geophysical
experiment. It is of vital importance to keep accurate records of
this experiment in order to increase our understanding of the mecha-
nisms controlling climate. With this in mind, careful measurements
will be made during the IGY of the carbon dioxide content of the
atmosphere, and studies will be initiated to refine our estimates of
the absorption of carbon dioxide in the sea.
Rocketry’

By Donatp Cox
and

MICHAEL STOIKO

[With 1 plate]
INTRODUCTION ?

Apvances in the social and physical sciences, as in other fields, are
usually brought about by a slow process of evolution—by the cumula-
tive effects of innumerable small contributions. The history of modern
technology, particularly rocketry, has been the story of such a process.
Recently, however, four historic events have occurred which, con-
sidered in themselves, are milestones in the history of modern tech-
nological development. But when these seemingly independent oc-
currences are considered together—related to rocketry—they have a
phenomenal catalytic effect on this normally slow process.

The first such event occurred on the evening of September 8, 1944,
the date the first German vengeance weapon, the V-2, fell on London.
The second event, which startled the world on the morning of August
6, 1945, was the nuclear destruction of Hiroshima. The third event
occurred just before noon on January 19, 1946. It was the first suc-
cessful radar contact with the moon. The fourth and most spectacular
recent event occurred on October 4, 1957. The “beep ... beep...
beeps” had announced to the world that man had established his first
artificial earth satellite.

These achievements some day will be recorded as the “four scien-
tific wonders of the age,” responsible for changing the course of
human evolution. Together, they symbolize the accelerating force
which is rapidly making the story of modern rocketry synonymous
with the conquest of outer space. The outgrowth of these four sym-
bols provides the foundations for this world force . . . space-power.

1Excerpts from the Preface and from Chapter 2 of Spacepower, and Chapter 3,
“Rocketry Today,” from the same book, by Donald Cox and Michael Stoiko, are reprinted
by permission of the publisher, The John C. Winston Co.

Epiror’s Note: Since the publication of this book, some of the missiles mentioned in
this survey have been dropped and many new missiles and facilities have appeared in the
arsenals of the various nations.

3Excerpts from Preface to Spacepower.

261
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

In order fully to grasp and understand the tremendous impact that
spacepower will have on all of us, we must look to astronautics, one
of the most important sciences of this new era. Our definition of
astronautics would encompass “The science of man’s movements
and/or his instruments in the universe.” As such, astronautics covers
many subdivisions, including anthropology, astronomy, astrophysics,
space law, space medicine, space sociology, and space flight. It is this
last area, “space flight,” that is the most dramatic when considered
in relation to the men, money, and material costs involved. Here
is the vortex around which the other subdivisions revolve and obtain
sustenance.

ROCKETRY YESTERDAY ®

The underlying developments which led to the present state-of-the-
art in rocketry are the results of a combined effort of many nations
and peoples. Three main periods can be distinguished in the develop-
ment process: the first period extends from antiquity to A.D. 1242
and Roger Bacon’s introduction of “De Mirabili Potestate Artis et
Naturae” (On the Marvelous Powers of Art and Nature) ; the second
period covers Sir Isaac Newton’s Laws of Motion through the time
of Sir William Congreve’s rockets (1670 to 1826) ; and the third period
includes the publication of Goddard’s “A Method of Reaching Ex-
treme Altitudes” through to the present (1919-58).

In the first period, man learned how to make gunpowder and how
to use the propulsive characteristics of this rapidly burning com-
pound. In the second period, we saw not only the beginnings of
science in rocketry, but we also witnessed the large-scale development
and utilization of war rockets. In the third period, with the impetus
of the Second World War, we saw the rocket develop from its pre-
viously limited role of an artillery rocket to that of a multipurpose
weapon and research tool.

In these three periods, many famous names in history and science
appear: in the first, Hero of Alexandria and Roger Bacon; in the
second, Sir Isaac Newton and Sir William Congreve; and in the third
appear such contributors as Konstantin E. Ziolkovsky and Nikolai
A. Rynin of Russia; Hermann Oberth, Max Valier, Eugen Sanger,
Wernher von Braun of Germany; Robert Esnault-Pelterie of France;
and Dr. Robert H. Goddard of the United States.

In the early part of the twentieth century modern rocket research
began with the work of Dr. Goddard, who, backed by a small grant
from the Smithsonian Institution, directed a group in research and
development of military rockets during World War I. The group

%Hxcerpts from Chapter 2 of Spacepower.
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 263

was successful, and a demonstration was held at the Aberdeen Proving
Grounds on November 6 and 7, 1918. The reports from these demon-
strations were so encouraging that the Government authorized limited
rocket research between World War I and World War II.

It was not generally known, however, in or out of the United States,
until 1919, that Dr. Goddard was engaged in rocket research and de-
velopment. At that time, Goddard delivered his now famous mono-
eraph to the Smithsonian Institution entitled “A Method of Reaching
Extreme Altitudes.” In the second part of this paper, in addition to
the report of his experimental work, Dr. Goddard showed that a
rocket with a gross weight of 22,000 pounds would be capable of
escaping from the earth and delivering a payload of magnesium
powder to the moon. He estimated that in impacting on the moon a
flash could be created which would be visible on the earth. It is inter-
esting to note that the Vanguard launching vehicle weighs 22,000
pounds and, secondly, that many people today are proposing that we
send nuclear or other type warheads to the moon to create an explosion
which would be visible on earth.

By 1926 Dr. Goddard’s research activities included almost every
aspect of rocket design and culminated in a feasibility demonstration
of the world’s first liquid-propellant rockets. Although the demon-
stration was successful, his accomplishments were ahead of their time
and not immediately recognized.

Dr. Goddard continued his research first in New England and then
later in the deserts of New Mexico. Many experimental rocket-
stabilization flights were conducted in New Mexico. On December
30, 1930, an 11-foot rocket reached a height of 2,000 feet and a velocity
of 500 miles per hour. Another flight, on March 28, 1935, achieved a
height of 4,800 feet and a velocity of 550 miles per hour. Subsequent
rocket firings achieved altitudes of 7,500 feet and speeds of 700 miles
per hour.

Some of Dr. Goddard’s contributions to rocketry, of which there
were many, were as follows:

1. Mathematical analysis of multistage rockets.

2. Feasibility of liquid propellants.

3. Centrifugal propellant pump.

4. The use of jet vane fins in the rocket exhaust.

5. Invention of the first practical gyroscope.

Goddard is truly the father of modern rocketry. In 1922, Hermann
Oberth wrote to Goddard, requesting a copy of “A Method of Reaching
Extreme Altitudes.” The following year, Oberth published his classic
book on space travel, “Die Rakete zu den Planetenriiumen” (‘The
Rocket to the Interplanetary Spaces). This book, written by a mathe-
matician, discussen in great detail the theoretical requirements for

5925205918
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

contiguous and interplanetary space travel. The book brought ad-
verse comments from the uninformed and praise from the disciples.
Subsequent publication supporting Oberth’s thesis was Dr. Walter
Hohmann’s book, “Die Erreichbarkeit der Himmelskérper” (The
Attainability of the Celestial Bodies). This book was a highly theo-
retical treatment of minimum energy departure trajectories from the
earth and return to the earth from the other planets. This was fol-
lowed by Max Valier’s “Der Vorstoss in den Weltraum” (A Dash into
Space). These classics were the forerunners of the many publications
which followed on the feasibility of space flight.

In 1929 Hermann Oberth published his most important work, “Die
Wege zur Raumschiffahrt” (The Roads to Space Travel). In this
book Oberth presented a most complete analysis of contiguous and
interplanetary space flight. He discussed in great detail the prob-
lems associated with the design of manned space vehicles and flights
in these zones. He also covered the possibility of artificial satellites.

As a direct result of Oberth’s publications, the German Society for
Space Travel (Verein fiir Raumschiffahrt) was formed.

The German Rocket Society for the advancement of space travel
was organized in 1929. After going through a period of natural
growth, Le., developing a unity of purpose and procuring test facil-
ities, the group was successful in developing a number of liquid rockets.
In 1933 the military, after witnessing a formal rocket demonstration
by the society, commissioned one of the society members, Wernher
von Braun, then aged 24, to develop an experimental military rocket.

In 12 short years (1933-45), the German military rocket research
program had gone through an amazing period of development.
Rocket research had progressed from the A-1 in 1933, weighing 330
pounds, which was never fired, to the famous A-4, commonly known
as the V-2, weighing 24,000 pounds. Approximately 1,120 V—2’s were
fired on England, with 1,050 actually falling on London, and 2,500
were fired against other targets in Europe. To make the total com-
plete, it should be mentioned that probably another thousand V—2’s
were fired for training purposes, and still hundreds more were brought
to the United States for research.

Advanced thinking and planning had also gone into the A-10, a
two-stage missile which would extend the range of the A-4 across the
Atlantic.

To carry out this accelerated military rocket program, the
Peenemiinde Research Institute had been established in 1937 on the
Baltic seacoast by the German Army. These facilities, which have
long since become as famous as the rocket produced there, were very
short lived. In the early months of 1945, the Peenemiinde facilities
were captured by Russian armies.
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 265

ROCKETRY TODAY *

The present state of science and of technological knowledge permits the
building of machines that can rise beyond the limits of the atmosphere of the
earth.

After further development these machines will be capable of attaining
such velocities that they—left undisturbed in the void of ether space—will not
fall back to earth; furthermore, they will even be able to leave the zone of
terrestrial attraction.

—Hermann Oberth.
Die Rakete zu den Planetenriumen—1923
(The Rocket to the Interplanetary Spaces).

Shortly before the capture of Peenemiinde, in the final phases of
World War IT, the United States, its Allies, and Russia realized that
the Germans were way ahead of every nation in guided-missile devel-
opment and application. Accordingly, they organized teams of
technical experts, both civilian and military, to search the German
research centers and factories for information pertaining to rocket
development. When the European war ended, these technical teams
proceeded to fulfill their assigned tasks. As a direct result of this
action, literally tons of captured documents and all types of rocket
hardware were confiscated by the participating nations.

One very important part of this program was the search for ex-
perienced rocket people. Of the thousands of technical personnel
who worked at Peenemiinde and other rocket-producing facilities,
it was reported that the Soviet central agency, whose sole function
was to recruit German rocket specialists after World War IT, rounded
up a total of 5,000 scientists, engineers, and technicians from the
Peenemiinde project. The United States took under its wings a few
big names but let the bulk of the Peenemiinde colony slip through its
fingers to Russia. In this manner, Russia acquired almost all of
Hitler’s best rocket brains, and within an incredibly short period had
them working around the clock 7 days a week on their rocket develop-
ments.

Thus, it was not until the capture of Peenemiinde and the roundup
of its scientists, documents, and missiles that a guided-missile program
was initiated by some of the major nations of the world. Since
then, however, the status of worldwide guided-missile programs indi-
cates that Argentina, the British Commonwealth, Italy, Japan,
France, Holland, Russia, Switzerland, Sweden, and the United States
are actively engaged in a missile technological race on a scale that
has seen no precedent or parallel in the course of human history.
This missile race is centered around four basic military categories
(see pl. 1) which include: (1) air-to-air (AAM); (2) air-to-surface

«Chapter 3 of Spacepower.
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

(ASM); (8) surface-to-air (SAM); and (4) surface-to-surface
(SSM) missiles.

Let us examine in detail “rocketry today” and the results of this
12-year missile armament marathon.

ARGENTINA

Argentina is the only known country in South America that has
entered the missile field. Its entry was with the AF3, a surface-
to-surface missile developed for use against tanks, trucks, and small
ships.

BRITISH COMMONWEALTH

The British Commonwealth’s contributions to rocketry have been
the subject of many highly controversial debates in the last few years.
The authors believe that the most accurate account of the British
achievements was recently expressed by Mr. Leonard Bertin, science
correspondent for The London Daily Telegram and Morning Post,
who, after touring major missile facilities in the British Isles and
visiting the long-range missile test site in Woomera, Australia, stated :
“With the limited resources it has available, England’s missile de-
velopment program is actually achieving a great deal.”

The first concrete evidence supporting Mr. Bertin’s opinion is the
recent missiles data and photographic releases by the Ministry of
Supply. This, coupled with announcement by The Society of
British Aircraft Constructors (SBAC) that 400 British companies
are actively engaged in missile and development work, substantiates
that the British Commonwealth is advancing steadily in missile de-
velopment. In addition, at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, scien-
tists are actively working on new concepts related to basic missile
research. The Farnborough facility is known to have a well-equipped
laboratory, including the TRIDAC guided-missile simulator, and
the Hawker Siddeley Co. has established one of the newer missile-
research facilities near Coventry.

Supporting these research and development centers are several test
facilities. The Ministry of Supply has added a 200,000-pound pro-
pulsion test complex (facility) to supplement the many currently
in existence at this center. Also scheduled for completion in 1958
is the Ministry of Defense’s large new missile firing range at South
Uist off the west coast of Scotland. To date, however, the only
operating range in England is the 250-acre Aberporth facility on
the Welsh coast. It is estimated that about 1,000 large test missiles
are launched at this facility yearly in addition to the many hundreds
of smaller vehicles such as target drones. Jodrell Bank, the world’s
largest radio telescope, is situated in England and plays a vital role
in tracking missiles and satellites.
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 267

The best-known Anglo-Australian rocket test facility is the Woo-
mera Range in Australia, the site at which the majority of Britain’s
missiles have been tested. The Woomera test site consists of a corridor
that cuts across 1,200 desolate miles of Australia, extending northwest
to the shores of the Indian Ocean. This test range can easily be in-
creased to 2,700 miles by extending it to Christmas Island in the Indian
Ocean.

Today, as during World War II, the major concern of the British is
defense, and missiles have been chosen as the best means, as borne
out by Defense Minister Duncan Sandys’ announcement in April
1957 that the English Electric P-1 is the last manned fighter; that
Avro Vulcan B2 and the Handley Page Victor B2 are the last of the
manned bombers; that all interception of enemy craft in defense of
England will eventually be made by a single operational air-to-air
missile, the Firestreak; that pending operational use of an intercon-
tinental ballistic missile (ICBM), the range of the V-bombers would
be increased by the use of an air-to-surface missile; and that because of
the destructive capabilities of nuclear weapons, target defense will
eventually be restricted to ICBM retaliation bases eliminating old-
time emphasis on populated area protection.

In support of this concept, England has developed or is in various
stages of developing missiles in the basic four categories: air-to-air,
air-to-surface, surface-to-air, and the ever-important, long-range, sur-
face-to-surface missile.

In the air-to-air category, three missiles are of importance—the
Fireflash, Firestreak, and the Red Dean. The performance of the
Fireflash, the first operational missile in this category, grew out of
World War II requirements of the Royal Air Force. The Fireflash is
currently in use on the Supermarine Swift MK7, the Hawker Hunter,
and the Avon Sabre fighters. The vehicle configuration is character-
istic of many British vehicles in that it has wrap-around, solid-pro-
pellant boost motors.

It is significant to note that the wrap-around booster technique seems
to be unique with the British. Normally, missile boosters are attached
in tandem; ie., the missile is placed on top of the booster. This
arrangement leads to a long, slim vehicle configuration. In the wrap-
around configuration, the booster, usually in three or four pairs, is
placed in parallel around the outside of the main rocket. This arrange-
ment in turn leads to a short stubby rocket. In either case the boosters
drop away after firing. It would be most diflicult at this time to state
that one technique is actually better than the other.

The second vehicle in this category, the Firestreak, is approxi-
mately 7 feet in length and somewhat larger than the Fireflash. It
is propelled by a solid-propellant motor, Its range is 8 miles, and
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

guidance is infrared, i.e., heat seeking. This missile is scheduled
for use on the English Electric P-1 and the Gloster Javelin fighters.
The Royal Navy will also use it with its DH Sea Vixens aircraft.
The Red Dean, the third in the series, was being developed by
Vickers-Armstrongs when it was rumored to have been canceled.

In the air-to-surface category only one missile is reported to be
under development. The missile is expected to be comparable in
size to the U.S. Air Force’s Rascal, and its application is reported
to be with the RAF’s Vulcan and Victor bombers.

In the surface-to-air category there are three missiles, the Blood-
hound, Thunderbird, and the Sea Slug. All are reported now in pro-
duction. The Bloodhound is expected to be Britain’s first operational
missile in this category. The second most publicized missile in this
family is the Thunderbird. Performance of this vehicle is said to
be on the same order as the U.S. Nike Hercules. The Royal Navy’s
entry in this family is the Sea Slug, designed especially for naval
defense. The missile configuration includes the wrap-around, solid-
propellant boosters as well as a solid-propellant sustainer motor. It
has medium-range interception capability and can reach any aircraft
flight altitude necessary for interception.

The surface-to-surface family boasts of only one vehicle, a 2,000-
mile intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM). This vehicle has
no known name at present. De Havilland in conjunction with Rolls
Royce has prime responsibility for developing this missile for the
RAF. The ICBM which was being developed by Vickers-Arm-
strongs was canceled for undisclosed reasons.

Among British Commonwealth missiles, Canada has made one at-
tempt to develop an air-to-air missile, the Velvet Glove, but a change
in government policy called for canceling it. Australia’s contribu-
tions to date are the Jindivik subsonic bomber and the huge Woomera
rocket test range.

It is apparent that the British have accomplished and are achiev-
ing a great deal in all phases of missile technology. In terms of
trained manpower, research, and test facilities, the British Empire’s
potential is excellent—a potential which should someday render
her one of the top three leaders in this field.

ITALY

Italy, one of the pioneers in jet propulsion, has been interested in
rocketry since the end of World War II. This interest has been dis-
played by individuals, government, and industry. However, lack
of funds and government direction has delayed positive action. In
spite of these handicaps, however, Italy has developed several mili-
tary rockets, two of which are the Airone and the Robotti. The
ROCKETRY—-COX AND STOIKO 269

Airone is a solid-propellant, surface-to-surface missile approximately
6 feet long and 3 inches in diameter. Range is reported to be over
6 miles. The Robotti is a surface-to-air missile propelled by a liquid
rocket engine using nitric acid and aniline. It is the opinion of many
rocket experts that Italy has excellent research potential and will
within the next few years become a leader in the missile production
field.
JAPAN

Japan, one of the more recent entries in the missile field, is described
as one of the most enthusiastic. This country’s missile activities in-
clude military rocketry, research rocketry, and space-flight studies.

The military rockets include the MM-1i and the TMA-O-AC. The
MM-1 is an air-to-air guided missile, and the TMA-O-AC is identi-
fied simply asa military rocket.

Japan’s research rocket program is the result of a decision of the
National Science Council of Japan to participate in the 1957-58 Inter-
national Geophysical Year (IGY). As part of this program, a de-
cision was made to use sounding rockets to supplement balloon obser-
vations. To develop these rockets in time for the IGY, a 4-year mis-
sile development program was initiated. This program called for a
series of five rockets—the Pencil, Baby, Kappa, Sigma, and Omega—
which would progressively lead to a very high (150-mile) IGY sound-
ing rocket. Japan announced in October 1957 that one of her rockets
had gained a 75-mile altitude.

FRANCE

In Europe, France has been one of the leaders in the missile field
since the end of World War II and has established an impressive
record with her relatively limited resources. Her missile develop-
ments have been geared to the type of war she feels she is most apt to
fight. In line with this philosophy, antiaircraft and wire-guided
antitank missile research has been emphasized.

Some of the better known antiaircraft missiles are the Navy’s
Maruca and Masalea, and the Army’s Sud—Est (SE) series and
LRBA-DEFA’s ramp-launched PARCA.

In the antitank category, the SS10 and the SSil programs are
outstanding. The first program, the SS10, includes the SFECMAS-
5200 and DEFA’s Entac missiles. These two missiles are almost
identical in range and velocity. Both are wire controlled and can
be launched againsié tanks either from the surface or from the air.
The second program, the SS11, includes the SFECMAS-5210 missile,
which is said to be a longer range version of the SFECMAS-5200.

Four other surface-to-surface missiles of importance include:
(1) Zborowski’s BTZ-411.01 bazooka-type, two-stage, solid-propellant
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

missile; (2) the infantryman’s Lutin, a radio-guided, rocket-boosted
ramjet; (3) the Ogre I, photo-reconnaissance, liquid-propellant-
boosted ramjet; and (4) the SE-4200, which is ramp launched by two
solid boosters and ramjet sustained. The missile is currently in
production.

There are five missiles in the air-to-air category: the M04, M20,
M051, M510, and M511. Of these five, the M04 is probably the best
known. The M04 can be used in either air-to-air or surface-to-air ap-
plications. It is approximately 15 feet long, 16 inches in diameter,
and weighs over 1,000 pounds. This missile utilizes a liquid-propellant
rocket engine, delivering 2,750 pounds of thrust for 14 seconds, and it
can fly over 1,000 miles per hour, carrying approximately 245 pounds
payload. The M04 was first successfully tested in 1952.

The M20 and M051 are Matra production missiles carried by the
Mystere A and B fighters. The M20 uses a liquid-propellant engine,
and the M051 utilizes a solid-propellant motor.

The last two missiles in this category are the M510 and M511. They
are comparable in length to the Matra M051. Although the perform-
ance of these missiles is classified, it has been reported that the M511
is scheduled for use with the Trident rocket-powered airplane.

French air-to-surface missiles are the least developed and consist of
only three missiles, the BB10, SNCASE 1522, and an ASM, which is
said to be similar to the U.S. Air Force’s Rascal.

French missile designers’ independent look at their missile require-
ments has resulted in some truly remarkable advances in the state of
the art. Their wire-guided antitank missiles and their antiaircraft
missiles are tops in their fields. The French method of guiding anti-
tank missiles by wire (similar to a kite) has been adopted by the United
States. Also, the adaptation of ramjets in small missiles by the
French has been revolutionary. France is rated as a third-ranking
military power in rocket development.

HOLLAND

A smaller nation contributing to rocketry today is Holland. Utiliz-
ing a French SFECMAS SS10 pulsejet motor, which develops 190
pounds thrust, the Aviolanda Co. developed a pilotless target air-
craft. ‘The plane is boost-launched by rockets, has a conventional
aircraft configuration, and is radio controlled.

SOVIET UNION

The Soviet Union, one of the two giants in the guided-missile
field today, achieved its missile mastery within a record-breaking
period from an incredibly primitive start. It is fairly obvious from
present results that the Russians, after taking over Peenemiinde
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO peril

and enlisting the aid of many of its former specialists, made ex-
ceptionally good use of both.

Although many, if not most, of her current missiles reflect the
design and thinking of the German influence, Russia today is com-
pletely on herown. The transition from almost complete dependence
on German know-how to complete independence took place essentially
within three 5-year periods.

The first period, from 1945 to 1950, was one in which the Rus-
sian missile industry depended a hundred percent on the experi-
ence of the German rocket specialists in all branches. This was
the Russian learning period. It is reported that from the beginning
the Russians followed a policy of picking clean the Nazi rocket
scientists’ brains. Soviet scientists and engineers observed every
move the Germans made and quizzed them endlessly on the Peene-
miinde experiments and general German rocket theory.

In the second period, from 1950-55, Russian specialists began to
phase out their German counterparts. And finally, in the third
period, i.e., since 1955, the Russian missile industry has been entirely
on its own and is making tremendous headway.

Today, the Russian arsenal not only includes special application
missiles, such as their satellite-launching and high-altitude research
vehicles, but also has missiles in all four major military categories:
air-to-air, air-to-surface, surface-to-air, and surface-to-surface. The
last category, surface-to-surface, includes the particularly important
submarine underwater-launched missile.

In the air-to-air category the Russians basically have two missiles,
the 3.2-inch rocket and M-100 series. The 3.2-inch rocket is the
standard missile in this category. It is said that the 3.2 is a carryover
from the German World War II R4M, which was a spin-stabilized,
short-range, solid-propellant missile.

The M-100 and M-100A are higher performing rockets from the
same family. The M-100A is approximately 8 feet long and 10
inches in diameter, and weighs between 100 and 200 pounds. It isa
production missile propelled by a solid-propellant motor with a range
of about 5 miles.

There are reported to be four missiles in the air-to-surface group:
the RS82, RS132, RS-URS-132, and the Comet III. The first three
of this grouping are unguided solid-propellant missiles, and the
Comet III, which is radar guided, has a range of approximately
100 miles.

The surface-to-air category lists three missiles: the M-1, T-7, and
the T-8. The first vehicle, the M-1, is 14.7 feet long, 22 inches in
diameter, and has a takeoff gross weight of 3,300 pounds. It is solid-
boost launched, sustained by a hydrogen peroxide and hydrazine
2Zi2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

liquid-propellant engine, and has a maximum operational ceiling of
about 50,000 feet. The performance of this missile is somewhat com-
parable to the U.S. Army’s Nike. Although the M-1 is now obsolete,
it initially was pressed into service several years ago as a defense
against the U.S. Air Force’s B-29 and B-36 bombers.

The second missile in this category, the T-7, is a more efficiently
performing missile based on the German World War II Wasserfall.
The T-7 is 25 feet long and 25 inches in diameter. It weighs 38 to
4 tons and has a maximum. altitude of 75,000 feet. Like the M-1,
it is boost-launched and sustained by a liquid-propellant engine. The
missile was designed to defend Russian targets against potential at-
tacks from B-47 and B-52 bombers. United States authorities have
confirmed that these missiles are currently in production and are
located at missile sites around most major target areas.

The last vehicle in the surface-to-air group is the T-8, which is
employed as a barrage flak weapon against low-altitude targets.

In the surface-to-surface type can be found the heart of the Russian
military and scientific missile strength. As such, this list includes
the medium-range ballistic missiles, intermediate-range missiles, inter-
continental ballistic missiles, as well as the satellite-launching and
lunar vehicles. Each of the missiles in this family is of extreme
importance, and therefore will be discussed in some detail in the order
mentioned above.

There are three missiles in the medium-range, surface-to-surface
category. These missiles are the T-1 (M-101), the S8, and the
T-7A. The T-1 is said to be an improved version of the German
V-2. It is estimated to be 50 feet long, 5.5 feet in diameter, and
powered by a liquid oxygen and kerosene rocket engine. The engine
thrust is rated at 77,000 pounds, and the range is given as 400 miles.
The 88 is said to be another modification of the German V-2, and is
somewhat similar to the T-1. This vehicle is specifically designed
to be launched from underground tubes. The last missile of the
medium-range, surface-to-surface type is the T-7A. This vehicle is
25 feet long, has a diameter of 2.5 feet, and a takeoff gross weight of
8,800 pounds. It is reported that the vehicle is currently in produc-
tion and js operational.

The Russians have four missiles in their arsenal in the inter-
mediate range, surface-to-surface classification. Two of these, the
T-2 (M-103) and T-4 (M-102), belong to the Army, and Comets
I and II are Soviet Navy missiles.

The Army’s T-2 is an improved version of the German two-stage
A-4/A-9, which was initially designed by the Germans to bomb
New York during World War II. The T-2 is approximately 125
feet in length, 15 feet in diameter, and has a range of 1,800 miles.
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO Date

The first-stage propulsion system is a liquid-propellant rocket engine
utilizing liquid oxygen and kerosene as propellants. The engine
thrust is rated at approximately 254,000 pounds. It should be noted
that the second stage of the T-2 is basically the T-1 (engine thrust
77,000 pounds).

The second of the Army’s intermediate-range vehicles is the T-4.
The T-4 is still another version of the German V-2, differing only by
the addition of wings. This vehicle is a production item and is com-
monly known as the winged T-1. It has the same engine as the T-1
and a reported maximum range of 1,000 miles. This missile is also
recognized as a test bed for the T-4A, hypersonic glide bomber.

In order to evaluate fully and accurately the Russian missile
capability, the Soviet naval missile arsenal must be taken into con-
sideration. It is most generally known that the Soviet Navy is well
equipped for missile warfare. Its submarine fleet is said to number
between 400 to 800 operational vessels with an additional 100 under
construction. In addition to the vast submarine fleet, the Soviet
Navy is being equipped with several types of missile ships; for ex-
ample, antiaircraft and short- and medium-range missile attack ships.
United States Naval Intelligence has admitted that the Soviet Navy
is second only to the United States Fleet in numbers and is growing
very fast.

Probably one of the most potentially dangerous weapons systems
that the Russians can deploy against the United States and the Free
World is their growing submarine fleet, coupled with their under-
water-launched ballistic missiles. Of the several techniques available
for launching missiles underwater, in all probability a modified ver-
sion of the deadly German V-2 submersible ballistic missile launcher
would be used. In the older German plan, three V—2 missiles in their
containers could be towed horizontally and underwater by one sub-
marine at approximately 15 miles per hour from German seaports to
any coastline, depending only on the cruise capacity of the submarine.
Once on location, and to ready the missile for launching, the ballast
end of the container was to be flooded, forcing the container into the
vertical position. When in the upright position, a built-in gyroscope
system would hold the container in the desired launch position by
counteracting any yaw or roll movements. The missile container
was to be outfitted with a control station and propellant tankage in
addition to the necessary servicing equipment. The weight of the
container and missile was about 70 tons, of which the missile and pro-
pellants represented about 35 tons. After the necessary prelaunch
servicing, the missile was to be remotely fired from the mother
submarine.

When the Russians took Peenemiinde, they acquired this fantastic
weapons system which was then ready for production!
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

It is no secret that the Russian Navy is today capable of towing
huge ballistic rockets in their submersible containers to any coastline
that it desires. With only part of its fleet of 800 submarines assigned
to such a mission, it could position offshore in close proximity to any
target within the United States. Furthermore, a mission of this type
does not require ICBM’s nor necessarily IRBM’s. Most target areas
could probably be reached with the Soviet Navy’s Comet I and
Comet II missiles reputed to have a range of 100 and 700 miles,
respectively.

Dr. Walter Dornberger, former Peenemiinde commandant, has
said be believes the Russian “emphasis on underwater vessels indicates
a plan to use submarines offensively, in American waters, quite possi-
bly as tow vessels for missile launchers.”

Completing the military arsenal are Russia’s ICBM and antipodal
bomber programs. The Russian ICBM designated as the T-3 (M-
104) is reported to be a two-stage vehicle approximately 100 to 160
feet in length, and 100 to 150 tons in weight. The first stage is said
to be powered by two T-2 motors (254,000 pounds of thrust each),
and the second stage by a single T-1 motor (77,000 pounds of thrust).
The hypersonic antipodal (skip-glide) bomber has been reported in
a number of journals as weighing 100 tons, with the boost stage en-
gines delivering between 800,000 and 1,000,000 pounds thrust and
having an attack capability at approximately 10,000 miles per hour.

The last family of vehicles in the surface-to-surface category and
certainly one of the most interesting is the scientific research vehicle.
Two vehicles of particular current interest are the satellite-launching
vehicle and the lunar vehicle.

Since the Russians launched their first earth satellite, they have
not as yet officially released information regarding the satellite-
launching vehicle. This silence on the part of the Russian scientists
and engineers has resulted in many irresponsible press releases from
responsible quarters in the United States regarding the Soviet capa-
bility. However, cooler heads have prevailed, and, today, there seems
to be a consensus regarding this vehicle’s configuration as well as the
over-all Russian missile capability.

It is most generally agreed that the Russian satellite-launching
vehicle is basically a modification of the T-3 intercontinental ballistic
missile, and that it was assembled adapting existing hardware such
as the T-1 and Wasserfall engines. The vehicle is described as being
approximately 100 feet long, 7 to 8 feet in diameter, and having a
takeoff gross weight of 150,000 pounds. It is a three-stage vehicle
using the same propellants in all stages, namely, liquid oxygen and
kerosene. The first-stage propulsion system is the 254,000-pound-
thrust T-2 engine; the second stage is the T-1, 77,000-pound-thrust
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 275

engine; and the third stage is said to be a 20,000-pound-thrust im-

proved Wasserfall engine.
SWITZERLAND

Another nation which has been actively engaged in missile pro-
duction is Switzerland. The Orelikon Co. has developed missiles in
all but one of the four major military categories.

The surface-to-air (antiaircraft) development of the “Series 50”
missiles started shortly after World War II. They weigh about 550
pounds each and have a range and ceiling of 12 miles. The more
recent “Series 54” has a takeoff gross weight of 772 pounds. It is
powered by a nitric acid-hydrocarbon fuel, liquid rocket engine de-
livering about 2,200 pounds thrust. The range and ceiling are 15.5
miles and 9.8 miles respectively. The “Series 56” and “Series 57”
are the latest versions under development.

In the air-to-surface category, Orelikon has produced two outstand-
ing FF, FF (forward-firing, folding-fin) missiles. These two missiles
have been developed expressly for the British Gloster Meteor and
Venom aircraft. The Cobra, another Orelikon missile, is a surface-
to-surface, wire-controlled, solid-propellant, antitank missile. The
weight of the Cobra is reported to be one-tenth the weight of the
U.S. Army’s Dart.

The most significant aspect of the Orelikon Co.’s operation is its
policy of selling missiles to any foreign power throughout the world.

SWEDEN

Sweden, another small nation engaged in missile activities, has one
of the better rounded programs. In addition to her missile activity,
she is actively engaged in research on high-energy fuels, ramjet pro-
pulsion, and advanced rocket designs. Specifically, Sweden’s missile
program has one missile in three of the four basic military categories.
These include the Jaktrobot, an air-to-air, in development; the
Sjorobot, a surface-to-surface naval missile soon to become oper-
ational ; and the Luftforsvarsrobot, a surface-to-air missile in develop-
ment for her Air Force since 1955. This missile is said to be capable
of interception at very high altitudes and at extreme ranges (120 to
150 miles).

UNITED STATES

The United States missile program after World War II was one
which emphasized the “broad look” into the state-of-the-art and not
quantity production of systems with questionable tactical value,
whereas the Soviets adopted postwar crash programs which utilized
German rocketry knowledge both for immediate production and as
a point of departure for building systems that could span continents.

It was intended that the policy of the United States should eventu-
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ally result in the development and production of a select few missiles
which would be the best available in their respective categories. It
was also intended that this period, like the Russian 5-year “brain
picking” period, should fill many of the basic research and engineering
gaps as well as build up a cadre of missile specialists throughout the
supporting industries.

This concept, coupled with the pressures of an uncertain interna-
tional picture, was indirectly responsible for fostering the much-dis-
cussed parallel programing of the missile efforts which is still in
existence today (Jupiter-Thor). Although the international pres-
sures during the immediate postwar period were not as acute (because
of the then nuclear superiority in the United States) as they are today,
they were, nevertheless, present.

These pressures even in the postwar period did not permit a normal,
step-by-step engineering approach. Instead they dictated the
simultaneous support of several approaches to the same problem in
the hope that one would pay off. It was recognized that each branch
of the military service had special tactical obligations possibly re-
quiring missiles in the same category, and, furthermore, that these
requirements would naturally lead to competition and probably dupli-
cation in some areas. Moreover, as the state-of-the-art developed, a
more critical evaluation of these projects was possible. These evalua-
tions resulted in canceling less promising projects (Navaho) and
placing greater emphasis on the more promising ones (Atlas and
Titan).

As to the soundness of this philosophy, there is agreement among
those close to the facts that this concept has permitted the investiga-
tion of a greater number of approaches to a particular missile problem ;
that this policy has also resulted in producing in a shorter period of
time greater quantities of technical information, which was readily
exchanged between projects, allowing one group to profit from the
experience of the other; and that in the final analysis it has developed
the potential for producing far better weapons systems in the future.

Perhaps the most significant event after World War II which gave
the greatest impetus to American rocketry was the shipment of stocks
of unused German V-2’s for upper-air research and operational train-
ing purposes. The highlight of this program came in 1946 when a
two-stage vehicle consisting of a WAC Corporal atop a V-2 reached
a record altitude of 244 miles and a speed of 5,000 miles per hour.

To supplement the depleted V—2 stockpiles in the latter part of 1940,
limited funds were appropriated for building bigger and better re-
search rockets. The Aerobee and the Martin Viking were developed
at this time. Viking 11 still holds the world’s altitude record for a
single-stage rocket (158.4 miles).
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 277

With the advent of war in Korea, missile development programs
were given new impetus. This acceleration was reflected in the missile
budget. In the fiscal year 1951 the missile budget was $21 million;
in 1952, it was increased to $169 million; and in 1958, it reached $800
million. The one-billion mark was surpassed in 1954; and, in late
1957, it went over the two-billion-dollars-a-year level and is still
increasing.

Thus, within the last 10 years, the United States missile industry has
grown from the precarious incubator stage to a healthy three-billion-
dollars-a-year business and is still expanding in all directions.

There are today in the United States approximately 1,000 industries
engaged in development, research, or production of rockets and
missiles. To some, rocketry represents 100 percent of their business;
furthermore, these industries employ about 50,000 engineers and tech-
nical specialists, as well as an estimated 100,000 cther employees on
the nontechnical level. The three branches of the Armed Forces have
also committed a significant percentage of their manpower (in addi-
tion to their utilization of more than half of the nation’s civilian
scientific manpower) to implement their respective missile defense
responsibilities.

Since the early V—2 experiments, the Nation has developed and
produced successful missiles in all four major military categories.
The giants in the surface-to-surface category are nearing an advanced
stage of development, and by the end of 1958 the United States
should have successfully launched several artificial earth satellites.

Without question, rocketry in the United States today is in a crucial
transitional period where momentary daily developments can alter
significantly the scientific, political, and military status of the Nation.
To appreciate its current missile position, let us examine in greater
detail some of the most important missiles in the basic tactical and
strategic categories, considering first the air-to-air family.

There are, as this is written, four major missiles in the air-to-air
category: the Mighty Mouse, Falcon, Sparrow I, and the Sidewinder.
Of these four, the Mighty Mouse is the oldest and best known. It has
been the most reliable and for years the most utilized of its category.
The Mighty Mouse is 48 inches long, 2.75 inches in diameter, and is
propelled by a solid rocket motor. The projectile is equipped with
a homing head and a proximity fuze. The power of the Air Force’s
Mighty Mouse is equivalent to a 70-mm. cannon shell which probably
is sufficient to bring down the largest aircraft.

One of the newer guided types of Air Force air-to-air missiles is
the Falcon. The Falcon is slightly less than 78 inches in length and
has a span of 20 inches. It is powered by a solid-propellant motor
with 6,000-pounds thrust, has a range of about 5 miles, and a top
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

velocity better than 1,200 miles per hour. The missile is radar
euided, and its kill rate is high. This missile has the lethal power
to stop any aircraft.

Two of the newer missiles in this category are the Navy’s Sparrow I
and the Sidewinder. The Sparrow, now operational in the fleet, is
powered by a solid motor and is radar guided. The accuracy of this
missile has been demonstrated against other aircraft and missiles.
There are currently two other versions of the Sparrow, the Sparrow
II and the Sparrow III. It has been reported that the Sparrow II
will replace the Canadian Velvet Glove.

The Sidewinder is another naval air operational missile. It is 9
feet long and 414 inches in diameter. The powerplant is a solid-
propellant motor. Guidance is infrared homing. The range is ap-
proximately 5 miles and currently the kill rate is said to be 7 out of
10. It is reported that the Navy intends to replace the Sparrow I
with the Sidewinder.

There are three other missiles in this category that should be men-
tioned. The first is the Ding-Dong, a liquid-propelled missile capable
of carrying atomic warheads. Little is known of this missile, but
it is said to be in the advanced stages of development. The second
is the Diamondback. The performance of this missile is not known.
Finally, the third is the Navy’s Zuni. The Zuni is an air-to-air or an
air-to-ground missile. It can be used in conjunction with high-per-
formance fighters and attack-type aircraft. It can be used against
other aircraft as well as against such ground targets as tanks, gun
implacements, etc.

In the air-to-surface category the Navy seems to be particularly
active, especially in antisubmarine applications. In the past decade
the Navy has had more than six missiles in this family, although it is
not known whether any are currently operational. The Tiny Tim is
the best known of this category. Since the Tiny Tim, there have been
the Petrel, Dove, Goose, and Duck.

More recently, the Navy has been evaluating the Bullpup, also an
air-to-ground missile. It is expected that this missile will soon join
the fleet. The missile is approximately 11 feet long and a foot in
diameter. It is powered by a solid-propellant motor. The Bulldog,
a larger improved version of the Bullpup, is also a solid-propellant
missile in this class.

Finally, one of the newer Navy air-to-surface missiles is the Corvus,
designed for use on carrier-based aircraft. Its current status is un-
known; however, it is known that the missile’s aerodynamic character-
istics have been evaluated through wind-tunnel tests.

As far as the Air Force is concerned, they have only one missile in
the air-to-surface class, the Rascal. The Rascal is approximately 35
=
n

*
O

8.

5

19

Smithsonian Report,

ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 279

feet long and 41% feet in diameter. It is powered by three 6,000-pound-
thrust engines, has a speed of approximately 1,000 miles per hour and
a range of 100 miles. There is no additional information available on
its current status.

There are currently six missiles in the antiaircraft category. They
are as follows: the Nike Ajax, the Nike Hercules, the Hawk, the
Terrier, the Tartar, and the Talos. The primary function of the
ground-to-air missile is the protection of major cities, vital industries,
and ships at sea from every type of enemy aircraft carrying modern
warheads or guided missiles. In addition, this weapons system must
be capable of stopping multiple threats from several directions and
altitudes simultaneously and at safe distances consistent with the
types of warheads employed.

The best known of our antiaircraft missiles are the Nike Ajax and
the Nike Hercules.

The Nike Ajax is approximately 20 feet long and a foot in diameter ;
speed is 1,500 miles per hour, range 10 to 30 miles, and ceiling about
50,000 feet. The vehicle is solid rocket boost launched and has a liquid
rocket sustainer. The Nike Ajax is now in service, being mass pro-
duced and delivered to antiaircraft batteries in and around major cities
and vital industrial areas throughout the United States. Each Nike
battery consists of 12 missile launchers, manned and operated by ap-
proximately 100 officers and enlisted men. Although the Nike is
designed to intercept moving and evasive targets and has an excep-
tional kill potential, it has been the subject of controversy. It has been
argued that the missile does not offer sufficient down-range protection
against high-flying modern aircraft carrying nuclear or H-bomb
warheads.

The second of the Nike series, the Nike Hercules, has been de-
veloped as a replacement for the Ajax and has been called the “double”
Ajax. The Hercules is 27 feet long and 2 feet in diameter. The
vehicle is solid-boost launched and solid rocket motor sustained; the
speed is 2,000 to 2,300 miles per hour, and range is reported as three
times the range of the Ajax, or about 70 miles. The missile is de-
scribed as being far more maneuverable and deadly than the Ajax
because of its atomic warhead. The Hercules is currently in the final
stages of development and initial stages of production. Replacement
of the Ajax by the Hercules should begin in the spring of 1958.

The Army’s Hawk was designed to supplement the Nike, i.e., fill
the gap between zero altitude and minimum Nike altitude capability.
The Hawk is 16 feet 4 inches long, and 14 inches in diameter. It is
propelled by a solid rocket motor. The speed has been described as
being highly supersonic with a range of 50 miles. The missile is in
the final stages of development, and, when it is made available, it

4925205919
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

most likely will first see service in the New York City and the Wash-
ington- Baltimore areas.

The Terrier, a Navy missile, is in operational use on the cruisers
U.S.S. Boston, U.S.S. Canberra, and the destroyer U.S.S. Gyatt. The
missile is 27 feet long and a foot in diameter; speed is 1,500 miles per
hour, range about 20 miles, and ceiling 60,000 feet. The missile is
boost launched and sustained by a solid rocket motor. By 1961,
Terrier I is expected to be operational on approximately 22 capital
ships. Terrier I, currently under development, is reported to be
twice the size of the Terrier I.

The Tartar, another Navy missile from this category, is a sub-
stantially more efficient single-stage vehicle that is expected to replace
Terrier I by 1961. The missile, currently in the early production
phases, will be used as secondary batteries on large ships or de-
stroyers, and on other smail vessels.

At the present time the arsenal of short-range, surface-to-surface
tactical missiles consists of four members: Honest John, Little John,
Dart, and LaCrosse. The function of these short-range, surface-to-
surface missiles is twofold. First, it must provide the infantryman
with an effective weapons system for defending himself against all
immediate fixed and mobile units; and, second, it must have the
capability of reaching behind the immediate contact area to destroy
selected targets.

Probably the best known of this family is the Honest John. The
Honest John is 27 feet long and 2.5 feet in diameter. The range
of this weapon has been quoted as 20 to 30 miles. The vehicle is
powered by a solid rocket motor and is an unguided, free-flight
artillery rocket capable of delivering nuclear warheads. It is cur-
rently assigned to the Army’s new pentomic divisions. The first tac-
tical unit armed with this rocket was the 101st Airborne Division.

The Little John is, as the name implies, a smaller solid rocket motor
missile with a shorter range. It was designed to supplement the
Honest John and provide all-weather artillery support.

The Dart is one of the newest missiles that has been developed. It
is 5 feet long, 8 inches in diameter, and has a 3-foot wing span. Speed
is over 600 miles per hour. The range is unknown, although in one
public demonstration the missile hit the target at a range of 2,100
yards. The Dart is powered by a single-stage smokeless solid rocket
motor and is wire guided. Since its range exceeds that of any known
tank armament, it can be fired safely from a fixed or mobile position.
The missile is in production but is not yet operational.

The LaCrosse is a solid rocket motor propelled, all-weather, ground-
support missile developed for the Army and the Marine Corps. It is
20 feet long, 20.5 inches in diameter, and has a range of 15 to 20
miles. The missile is truck mounted and extremely mobile. It is
currently in production.
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 281

With these four new missiles—Honest John, Little John, Dart,
and LaCrosse—supplementing weapons in this category that have
been battle proved in the last two wars, the American infantryman
is assured of the close support required.

In the medium-range, surface-to-surface category (enemy ground
targets up to 500 miles), there are the Corporal (the most popularly
known of this group), the Sergeant, and the Jupiter A (Redstone)
missiles.

The Corporal is approximately 45 feet long and 2.5 feet in diameter.
It weighs about 5 tons fully fueled, and the range is about 150 miles.
This vehicle is one of the Nation’s first guided missiles. It is radio
guided, flies a ballistic trajectory after cutoff, and can carry an
atomic warhead. The missile is currently in large-scale production
and in full use by the Armed Forces.

The Sergeant missile, an outgrowth of the Hermes RVA-10, is a
late addition to the Army’s tactical missile family. It is more than 22
feet long and 3 feet in diameter. With a launch weight of 25,000 to
35,000 pounds including the payload, the range of this missile is
estimated at 50 to 70 miles. ‘Thrust is estimated at 50,000 to 75,000
pounds. The propulsion system is said to be one of the largest solid-
propellant motors in development. When this vehicle becomes oper-
ational, it may replace the Corporal.

The last vehicle in this series is the Jupiter A, more commonly
known as Redstone. It is 69 feet long and 6 feet in diameter. The
range of the vehicle is given as 200 to 250 miles. The Jupiter A
resembles the V-2 in many respects and is described as the test bed
for the Jupiter C, in addition to its tactical function. The vehicle is
powered by a 75,000-pound-thrust, liquid-propellant engine. This
particular powerplant, although not as efficient as the more modern
engines, is nevertheless one of the more reliable. It is expected that
the Jupiter A will become operational shortly. When it does, the
utilization of this weapon will extend the Army’s striking capability
well beyond the Army group zone of action.

As of January 1, 1958, the United States had under development
five long-range ballistic missiles. Basically they are of two types:
the shorter-range 1,500-mile intermediate-range ballistic missile
(IRBM); and the extreme-range 500- to 5,500-mile intercontinental
ballistic missile (ICBM). Of the five missiles under development,
three are in the shorter intermediate range, and the other two are in
the intercontinental range.

Tn the IRBM class, the Thor is being developed by the Air Force,
the Jupiter by the Army, and the Polaris by the Navy.

The Thor, officially designated as the WS-315, is a single-stage
missile powered by a liquid rocket engine of 135,000-pounds thrust. It
is claimed that the development of the Thor will serve as a component
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

test bed for the Atlas and Titan ICBM’s. The Thor is currently
undergoing development testing. The first three firings of this mis-
sile ended in failures; however, the ultimate success of this weapon is
not questioned. When it is released for operational use, the Strategic
Air Command will be responsible for its tactical deployment.

The Jupiter, like the Thor, is a single-stage, intermediate-range bal-
listic missile. The similarities do not end here. Both vehicles use
the same engine, and it has been reported that they may also adapt the
same airframes. This vehicle is estimated to be 50 to 60 feet in length
and 8 feet in diameter. The Jupiter IRBM, like the Thor, has known
test failures. The first two failures of the Jupiter test vehicle were
attributed to sloshing fuel. The third test vehicle was a success and
flew its prescribed range of 1,500 miles. The Navy had initially spon-
sored the development of the Jupiter with the Army, but, because of
special shipboard problems, the Polaris was substituted for the Jupiter
by the Navy.

The Polaris is a two-stage, fleet ballistic missile vehicle capable of
being launched from surface ships or from underwater by special
submarines. The propulsion system is a solid rocket motor, said to be
the largest built to date. The motor is housed within a vehicle ap-
proximately 40 to 50 feet long and 100 inches in diameter. Range is
given as 800 to 1,500 miles, and the warhead is said to be nuclear.

It is the opinion of the authors that the sublaunch TIRBM will
achieve a role of greater strategic significance in the very near
future. Furthermore, it is believed that the use of the solid-pro-
pellant motor for this application will come of age and be accepted
by all services. (It is interesting to note that there is no evidence
to date that the Soviets have developed a large solid motor for ex-
treme-range missiles.)

The United States Air Force has the prime responsibility for
developing the ICBM. There are two missiles that are currently
under development in this category—the Atlas and the Titan.

The Atlas is approximately 100 feet in length and 12 feet in
diameter. The vehicle is boosted by two 185,000-pound-thrust,
liquid-propellant engines and sustained by a single 100,000-pound-
thrust, liquid-propellant engine. The Atlas is known as a “stage-
and-a-half missile,” ie., “parallel staged,” somewhat similar to the
British wrap-around technique. At launch all three engines are
utilized. The vehicle takeoff gross weight is over 200,000 pounds.
Its maximum range is 5,500 miles, apogee (maximum altitude) about
800 miles, and reentry velocity approximately 15,000 miles per hour.
The expected accuracy is 20 miles, using celestial guidance. The
current status or operational date of the missile is not known, but it
is expected to be some time after 1960. The first two firings of this
vehicle in June and September 1957 ended in misfire. The cause has
ROCKETRY—COX AND STOIKO 283

been traced to failure in the propellant feed system. Finally, on
December 17, 1957, the third Atlas test vehicle was successfully
launched and guided several hundred miles downrange to a pre-
scribed target area.

The Titan, currently a backup to the Atlas project, is a more
sophisticated approach to the ICBM design. The Titan is a two-
stage “tandem” vehicle with an estimated length of over 100 feet
and diameter of 10 feet. The vehicle weighs more than 200,000
pounds at takeoff. The propulsion system is believed to have 300,000
pounds of thrust in the first stage and 60,000 pounds of thrust in
the second. The missile is currently in the development phase—
and Air Force officials have said that they are pleased with the
progress.

The missile arsenal would be incomplete without mention of the
surface-to-surface, air-breathing, pilotless aircraft missiles.

Currently, there are four surface-to-surface pilotless aircraft.
There are the Navy’s Triton and Regulus II and the Air Force’s
Snark and Matador. The propulsion for these vehicles is either
turbojet or ramjet, and the ranges vary from the Matador’s me-
dium range of 600 miles to the Triton and Regulus with a range
from 1,000 to 1,500 miles. The Snark can claim a range of over
5,000 miles. All vehicles are capable of carrying nuclear warheads.
The prime difference between these vehicles is that the Navy vehicles
are launched from submarines whereas the Air Force vehicles are
launched conventionally.

The antiaircraft, air-breathing missiles are the well-known Navy
Talos and the Air Force Bomare. As is characteristic with all air-
breathing engines, there are operational limits in both speed and
altitude.

The Air Force’s Bomare, because of its long-range capabilities, is
known as an “area” antiaircraft defense missile, as opposed to the
Army’s Nike “point defense” missile. The Bomare is almost 47 feet
long and 3 feet in diameter. Speeds and altitudes have not been offi-
cially released; however, some of the earlier test vehicles achieved
velocities of over 1,500 miles and altitudes of over 60,000 feet. The
range is given as 200 to 300 miles. The vehicle is boosted by a liquid
rocket and sustained by two ramjet engines. The range of the missile
is greater than the other missiles of this category. On May 16, 1957,
the Bomare was awarded an initial production contract. It is ex-
pected that as soon as the Bomarc becomes available in quantity, it
will be operated by the Air Defense Command in the more strategic
areas.

We have summarized the state of missile development today among
nations. It must be noted that we have only touched on the highlights
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

and that most nations have missiles other than those mentioned, either
developed or being developed, including rocket-powered aircraft.

CRITERIA TO GAGE A NATION’S MISSILE POTENTIAL

A look at the missile arsenal in any nation is only one factor in the
evaluation of its missile potential. In addition to missile hardware, a
comprehensive evaluation should include the following equally perti-
nent factors:

1. A nation’s potential in the missile field should be measured by the
current caliber of its leaders and numbers of scientists, engineers, and
trained technicians, as well as by the capability of its educational
institutions to train and maintain the balance of technical and
nontechnical personnel required for the future.

2. A nation’s potential in the missile field should also be measured
by its natural resources, by the numbers of its supporting industries,
and by the quality of its basic research and test facilities.

3. And furthermore, a nation’s potential in the missile field should
be measured by the availability of operational missiles in any one of
the four basic military categories which fulfill that nation’s specific
strategic requirements.

EIGHT AXIOMS ON MISSILERY

In addition to the above criteria for gaging a nation’s missile po-
tential, we offer the following eight axioms on missilery as a means
for a realistic assessment of rocketry today:

1. The statement “behind in the missile race” without qualifications
is meaningless.

2. If leads in certain missile categories do exist, it is primarily
because of a concentrated effort in that area.

3. Rocketry is a matter of emphasis—not just on funding but
also on direction.

4. The know-how of building -missiles and rockets is not one
nation’s secret, nor is this know-how limited to a select few or-
ganizations or scientists. The physics of rocketry is well under-
stood by many both here and abroad.

5. At present it appears that no nation has made a major
missile technological breakthrough. This is especially true from
an aerodynamic and propulsion viewpoint.

6. The probability of a successful missile launching applies
“equally” to all nations.

7. The citizens of the United States and the leaders they have
elected over at least the last 15 years are responsible for the Nation’s
current position in rocketry.

8. An informed people will insure that American democracy will
courageously and successfully meet the challenge of the coming
Space Age.
Fresh Water for Arid Lands’

By Davip S. JENKINS

Director, Office of Saline Water
United States Department of the Interior

[With 5 plates]

From a status of barely casual interest, the increasing demand for
fresh water and the associated search for supplementary sources have
almost overnight come to preoccupy public interest and technical
thinking everywhere. Population growth, coupled with a startling
increase in unit water consumption, has imposed severe demands on
water resources [1] ?, to the extent that even the most amply provided
parts of the world have begun to feel alarm. Figure 1 shows the rise
in water use in the United States since 1900. Elsewhere similar in-
creases have occurred. There are indeed grounds for alarm, in view
of our investment in water-resource projects and our dependence on
them. For many years a considerable part of our construction ex-
penditures has been devoted to building the project works, and simul-
taneously questions of ownership and control of fresh-water sources
have given rise to regional and international contentions. Even in
many nonarid lands, our natural water supplies draw nearer to exhaus-
tion and we look hopefully toward the possibilities of going to the
oceans and to the brackish waters [2] about us for new supplies of
fresh water.

But in the arid regions, water is as gold. Men have long dreamed
of finding living space for additional people in the great areas of
desert and semiarid land in which the world abounds. But so long
as water cannot be obtained except at remote locations and in small
we shall be able to bring fresh water to them at low cost, they promise
quantities, the lands outside of these oases must remain barren. When
to become the productive base for a new growth of human activities.

The purpose of this symposium is to appraise this problem and to
pool our knowledge of its difficulties and prospects. The following
general sketch of saline water conversion and its application to the
needs of arid lands is necessarily based on the work with which I am

1General paper on saline water conversion, for the UNESCO Symposium on Salinity
Problems in Arid Lands, Tehran, Iran, Oct. 11-18, 1958, and published by permission of
UNESCO.

2 Numbers in brackets indicate references at end of text.

285
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

most familiar. That is the work carried on during the past 5 years
by the United States of America, and that initiated by the Organiza-
tion for European Economic Cooperation. From this work we know
that low-cost sea-water conversion is not yet here, but we also believe
that in time it will be at hand. Our hope for the future is that today’s
community of interest and strength of cooperation will continue,
showing the way to final solution of the problem.

Before entering upon specific discussion of the arid-lands problem,
I wish to review the course of the research work into saline-water con-
version that is being conducted under the Office of Saline Water of the
United States Department of the Interior [8], and elsewhere, and
mention some processes that have been studied.

250 r—

200 }

STEAM ELECTRIC POWER

ee)
| TOTAL USE\

100

BILLIONS OF GALLONS- DAILY AVERAGE

IRRIGATION (At Dispersion Point)

O § SHS “234
1900 Ig20 1940 1960
Fic. 1.—Growth of water use in the United States, since 1900. (After Picton.)

For many years scientists and technicians had been at work investi-
gating the possibilities of more efficient saline-water conversion than
could be accomplished by the time-honored distillation process. Note-
worthy stimulus was given to such efforts by the United States Govern-
ment in 1952, when it established in the Department of the Interior a
program to encourage private scientific interest and activity in de-
salting, together with a limited fund to support conversion research
and development work by its citizens. Three years later this authority
was enlarged, and provision was added for devoting part of the fund
to the support of process research in other nations.

The act [4] proved to be a powerful scientific and technical stimu-
lus. One of its effects was to reinforce technical activity abroad as
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 287

well as at home, bringing about a valuable international exchange of
information on saline-water conversion. The strength of this mutual
interest became apparent in the Washington Symposium [5] on the
subject held in November 1957, and is evidenced again by the present
gathering.

The Washington Symposium confirmed that although we may im-
prove present distillation processes, much exploratory research is
needed to develop wholly new approaches to desalting. It is my
firm conviction that nature has locked away from us temporarily
one of her most fascinating secrets. From principles of physical
chemistry and thermodynamics we know that theoretically we should
be able to get fresh water from the ocean for an over-all cost of about
10 cents a thousand gallons with reasonable allowances for inefficien-
cies. Already science has succeeded in reducing the cost to about
10 times that amount, with considerable promise of further reduc-
tion to about 5 times or 50 cents. This will make it possible to supply
water for a number of special new uses, particularly in areas of
low-cost labor and materials. But to unlock this secret of nature
so as to serve general irrigation uses will take a scientific development
comparable to that which uncovered nuclear fission and fusion. Its
accomplishment may well rival nuclear energy in its effect upon the
world economy.

How best can we solve this problem? Not knowing which approach
may turn out ultimately to be the best, we must pursue all possible
and logical leads. Many new approaches should be investigated,
and effort should be devoted to such fundamental studies as the mech-
anisms by which salt-water phreatophytes select nitrate and phos-
phate ions but reject sodium and chloride, as well as to the functions
of the kidneys in maintaining salt balance in the human, animal, or
fish systems. Fortunately, some research is being directed to ap-
proaches of this type.

In order to separate water from a salt-water solution, we must
expend energy [6]. The minimum theoretical thermodynamic energy
needed to separate water molecules from salt ions can be calculated
from the experiment shown in figure 2. At the same temperature and
pressure, more water molecules will change into the vapor phase
from the fresh water (left) than from the salt water (center). By
compressing the vapor above the salt water to the same pressure as
that above the fresh water, it can be made to condense to fresh water
(right). The energy required is just equal to the energy that binds
the water molecules to salt ions. For sea water this minimum re-
quirement is 2.8 kilowatt-hours per 1,000 U.S. gallons. Inventors’
claims involving energy requirements less than this minimum are
bound to be false.
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The actual energy needed to evaporate fresh water from salt water
is necessarily much greater than this theoretical requirement, which
assumes a barely perceptible rate of separation and complete effi-
ciency in conversion of energy. Murphy [7] has estimated that this
minimum energy requirement for a practical process may be about
four times the theoretical, or about 12 kilowatt-hours per thousand
gallons. Simple distillation, for example, requires 1,000 times as
much energy, but already distillation systems of today require energy
expenditures of only about 200 kilowatt-hours per thousand gallons.

oe

Fic. 2.—Theoretical energy needed to separate water molecules from salt ions.

Distillation, known and practiced for long ages, remains to date
the most advanced (and almost the only) method of applying this
energy to the work of salt-water separation. While simple in basic
principle, it is complex and costly in application, and involves the
use of large and expensive equipment. To discover other methods,
the Office of Saline Water upon its establishment undertook an ex-
tensive survey [8] of scientific and technical knowledge. Included
were various physical, chemical, and electrical actions, as well as
several modifications of the conventional distillation process designed
to increase the productivity and reduce the size and cost of the neces-
sary equipment.

Some 30 potential conversion processes and pertinent phenomena
were originally listed from this survey, but they were soon narrowed
down to 16, which in turn were ultimately reduced to 5 groups of
processes, namely: (1) thermal and mechanical distillation ; (2) solar
distillation; (3) membrane processes; (4) freezing; and (5) others,
the latter including such processes and phenomena as ion exchange,
solvent extraction, and biological action.

To date these studies [9], as well as parallel researches abroad,
have shown that several processes other than distillation are tech-
nically feasible on a laboratory scale; only one has reached actual
commercial use, however. This is the recently developed process of
electrodialysis, in which the ions composing the salt are forced out
of the saline water through pairs of positive and negative ion-selective
membranes by the force of an electric current. One other process—
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 289

separation of water from salt by freezing—is approaching the point
of commercial possibility, but it still requires much further develop-
ment. And, as part of the distillation group, small low-temperature
stills using the heat of the sun have been extensively developed ex-
perimentally on a small-scale basis in the United States and else-
where, particularly in several Mediterranean countries and Australia.

THERMAL AND MECHANICAL DISTILLATION

Improvement of conventional distillation processes, both to reduce
their high investment cost by increasing the rate of heat transfer and
to reduce the energy cost by diminishing the heat losses, engaged ex-
tensive study from the first. The earliest projects of the Office of
Saline Water included studies of very large vapor-compression systems
[10] and the possibility of reducing their costs, as well as large-scale
multiple-effect evaporation systems separately and in combination with
power-generation cycles.

Although there are several different types of distillation equip-
ments and cycles [11], all are presently subject to the same general
limitations—scale deposition and corrosion. Scale-forming constitu-
ents, principally calcium carbonate, calcium sulphate, and magnesium
hydroxide, are precipitated out of solution as evaporator tempera-
tures rise above 160° F. The scale fouls heat transfer surfaces
and impedes fluid circulation. In addition, brines become more cor-
rosive, necessitating use of expensive alloy as temperatures approach
or exceed the normal boiling point of water, 212° F.

Therefore, a series of research and development studies has been
in progress in the fields of heat transfer, scale prevention, and less
expensive corrosion-resistant materials of construction. Some of these
studies are sponsored by the Office of Saline Water and other Govern-
ment agencies, while others are carried out by independent manufac-
turers in the United States and elsewhere and by agencies of other
governments, such as the British Admiralty. In most instances, each
of the principal investigations, which are described below, are directed
toward a particular evaporator type. However, much of the knowl-
edge and techniques gained from one series of experiments, where
successful, will be adaptable to the general distillation field.

Formation of scale deposits in the equipment is a serious problem
in practically all distillation processes, and under certain conditions
in electrodialysis. A fundamental investigation of the basic factors
affecting scale deposition is being conducted at the University of
Michigan.

An attractive distillation process using long-tube vertical evapora-
tors of the kind employed in the salt industry has been proposed
by W. L. Badger of Ann Arbor, Mich. [12]. In this cycle sea water
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

is passed through a series of evaporators under reduced pressure and
temperature, utilizing either heat applied directly from a steam gen-
erator or that recovered from the exhaust of a steam turbine in con-
nection with electric power generators [13]. (Fig. 3.) The efficiency
and economy of the process require completely scale-free operation
which we believe can be achieved through pH control and/or internal
sludge-stabilization techniques. In addition, Badger proposed the
use of low-cost (ferrous) metals throughout the plant. In order to
bring these theories into practice, a pilot plant has been erected at a
seashore location in North Carolina for testing scale prevention, metals
corrosion, heat transfer rates, and other variables for the long-tube
vertical-evaporator distillation process (pl. 1, fig. 1). Badger esti-
mates the total cost of water from a large plant at about 40 cents per
thousand gallons.

FLOW SHEET OF SEA WATER DISTILLATION PLANT

Fic. 3.—Flow sheet of multistage, long-tube vertical distillation plant. (Layout is after
cycle of W. L. Badger.)

Improved evaporators in which greatly increased rates of heat trans-
fer are achieved give promise of reducing capital as well as operating
costs. In one such development [14], the heat transfer coefficient is
increased to 2,000-8,500 B.t.u. per hour per square foot per °F., as
compared to 500 or less in conventional equipment. In this process,
invented by Dr. Kenneth C. D. Hickman of Rochester, N.Y., the heat-
transfer area is in the shape of conical surfaces and is rotated, thereby
causing the feed water to spread over the surface in thin films, under
centrifugal force. Several experimental models have been built, from
household sizes (800 g.p.d.) to much larger plants (25,000 g.p.d.)
(pl. 1, fig. 1), and are being tested on brackish water as well as sea
water.

Another heat-transfer system is under development by Drs. B. F.
Dodge and A. M. Eshaya of Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Tests were run on laboratory equipment at the University [16] which
demonstrated that heat transfer coeflicients of 2,000 B.t.u. per hour per
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 291

square foot per °F. could be maintained in a system utilizing forced
circulation and drop-wise condensation in vapor-compression distilla-
tion processes. Similar and complementary research was conducted
by the British Admiralty [17] under the program of the Organiza-
tion for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC.) Several pri-
vate organizations in the United States and Europe are experiment-
ing with drop-wise promoters for various types of heat exchanger
surfaces.

The flash type of distillation process is now receiving increasing
commercial application. In this process, warm salt water enters an
evaporation chamber in which the pressure has been reduced below
the boiling point of the salt water, thereby inducing a portion of
liquid to vaporize (flash) into steam. As with most of the present
types of commercial evaporation equipments, the flash units have been
primarily developed for marine use. However, Westinghouse Corp.
of Pittsburgh, Pa., completed one of the largest distillation plants in
the world at Kuwait (pl. 1, fig. 2), making use of the multistage flash
process. That installation consists of four 4-stage flash evaporators
with a total capacity of 214 m.g.p.d. Other companies are also offer-
ing multistage flash evaporators, and other land installations are
presently being considered for this type of equipment. The Office of
Saline Water is developing improved multistage flash distillers for
potential combinations with nuclear-process [18] steam reactors, as
this type of evaporator will make use of very large amounts of steam
in civilian-type applications.

There are also locations where waste heat is currently available or
where ocean temperature differences are sufficient to induce flash evap-
oration [19]. Therefore, low-temperature flash evaporation was
recently studied by Griscom-Russell Co. [20] for Massillon, Ohio,
for the Office of Saline Water, as adapted to a single-stage flash
evaporator using the energy of a stream of warm waste water from
a power station of an industrial plant, or from natural sources. Esti-
mates showed that, given a temperature difference of 30° F. between
the warm and the cold water, plants of 100,000 and 10,000,000 gallons
output capacity would produce fresh water from sea water at over-all
costs of $1.28 and $0.71 per 1,000 gallons respectively, using the
Office of Saline Water standardized cost estimating procedure [21]
as modified for this process.

SOLAR DISTILLATION

Distillation by means of solar heat has the advantage of eliminating
the cost of the fuel energy otherwise required. However, the diffuse
nature of solar energy makes necessary the use of large areas for
collection. The major problem in solar distillation is reduction of
292 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

equipment costs. Research on solar stills having that and increasing
efficiencies as objectives has been carried out by the Office of Saline
Water [22, 23]. Both glass and plastic membranes have found ap-
plication as transparent covers for solar stills, and equipment costs
are being reduced.

A number of typical American still designs, some intended for re-
search use only, are shown in plate 2 and plate 3, figure 1. They
include stills of suspended-envelope type, canopy type, and flat tilted
type. Their output was found to be, rather uniformly, about 1 pound
of fresh water per square foot per average day of sunshine in a mod-
erately warm climate.

Small solar stills have had extensive practical development in
Algeria and Morocco [24] and Australia [25]. Manufacture of stills
with effective surface of 10 to 12 square feet is reported for one
maker in Algeria, while another has developed a much larger still,
to be made up of jointed units 10 by 40 feet each.

A design for a deep-basin still with an area of 5,000 square feet,
to be built directly on the ground, was prepared in 1957 by George
O. G. Lof of Denver, Colo. (pl. 3, fig. 2).

The Office of Saline Water has initiated a comprehensive develop-
ment program on solar stills through contract with Battelle Memorial
Institute of Columbus, Ohio. Prototypes of various existing and im-
proved designs are being installed for further development at a cen-
tral seashore test station near Port Orange, Fla. The first small pilot
plant of the L6f deep-basin still is now being constructed there. The
next two prototypes to be built will be of plastic films in place of the
glass. The new plastic has been developed by the Du Pont Co. of
Wilmington, Del. One will be based on the design shown in plate 2,
figure 2, using an air-supported transparent cover, and will also have
an area of about 2,500 square feet. Low-cost preformed concrete
bases under development are expected to reduce costs further and
greatly simplify field construction. The second Du Pont type of
about 500 square feet was originally designed to utilize a wire sup-
port for the plastics cover (pl. 4, fig. 1). However, within the last
few weeks Du Pont has prepared a folded or pleated film which
promises to remove the need for the wire support and further reduce
costs. Others to be installed and tested at the Port Orange research
center are the suspended envelope developed by Bjorksten Labora-
tories of Madison, Wis., and the tilted stills developed by Maria
Telkes of New York University, both under the direction of the Office
of Saline Water.

A need exists for two major types of solar-distillation equipment:
small stills, some of which may be portable; and large-capacity stills.
The small stills should have production capacities that range from
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 293

about 20 gallons to several hundred gallons per day of fresh water.
The large stills would cover many acres. They would be most useful
where other conversion methods are more costly or impracticable and
where solar intensities are high and land costs low. Both types have
attractive possibilities for areas where the stills can be constructed
with local materials and labor. Much developmental work is neces-
sary to reduce the unit cost on a per-square-foot basis.

It is anticipated that the solar distillation center in Florida will
result in engineering designs and specifications for practical small
units and will point the way for future solar distillation plants of
much larger capacity.

MEMBRANE PROCESSES

Desalinization processes utilizing membranes have been developed
during the past few years to the point where several are known to be
technically feasible and one appears to be economically feasible for
the treatment of brackish waters under certain conditions [26].

Specifically, the membrane processes showing promise for the puri-
fication of brackish waters consist of (1) electrodialysis where an
electromotive force is applied to a cell consisting of ion-selective
membranes; (2) “osmionic” where the concentration gradient be-
tween the solutions supplies the potential to drive ions through
ion-selective membranes; and (8) reverse osmosis where sufficient
pressure is applied to the solution to force water through an ion-
restraining membrane into the fresh-water side. The practicality of
using biological membranes through the use of algae is now being
investigated by the Office of Saline Water [27].

One of the limiting factors in the use of these processes has been
the membranes themselves. Consequently, during the past few years
considerable research has been conducted by organizations in several
countries aimed at improving the characteristics of those membranes.
As a result, greatly improved ion-selective membranes have been de-
veloped. Such membranes are now available commercially at a cost
per unit area of approximately one-fifth of what it was formerly.

If the cost of membranes and equipment can be further reduced,
some authorities believe that the use of ion-selective membranes for
the demineralization of sea water might become economically feasible.

Electrodialysis—An electrodialysis cell consists of alternate cation
and anion permeable membranes (pl. 4, fig. 2). Upon the applica-
tion of an electromotive force the positive ions, such as sodium, pass
through the cation permeable membranes, whereas the negative ions,
such as chloride, move in the opposite direction and pass through the
anion permeable membranes. Thus, the water passing between alter-
nate membrane pairs is depleted of salt, while that passing through
the intervening pairs is enriched.
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Electrodialysis as a conversion process has developed rapidly from
a laboratory phase to commercial operating units in about 6 years.
Developments have been carried out in the Netherlands [28], Great
Britain [29], South Africa [30], and the United States [31], and
more recently in Japan, Soviet Russia [32], and Israel.

One of the most advanced processes is that of Ionics, Inc., of
Cambridge, Mass., developed partly through the Office of Saline
Water. That process utilizes strong membranes having considerable
durability, and a long tortuous flow path. Following laboratory tests
that had highly favorable results, the process was incorporated in
pilot tests [83]. The equipment, which was mounted in a trailer
truck (pl. 4, fig. 2), was operated for some months on two naturally
occurring saline waters in Arizona and South Dakota having salini-
ties of 4,000 p.p.m. and 2,000 p.p.m. respectively. Operating difficul-
ties such as fouling by scale were corrected by acid feed, and the
process was in each location successfully carried to a residual 350
p-p.m. concentration. High cost of equipment and membranes at
present quoted prices accounts for about 80 percent of the cost of the
water. With future increased production, these costs should be
reduced.

More than 20 Ionics., Inc., production plants are in use having
capacities ranging from 500 gallons per day upward, with the largest
plant of 86,400 gallons per day in the Middle East at Bahrein. The
other well-advanced process is that of the Netherlands, TNO, also used
in modified form in South Africa, in which thinner, less durable, but
less expensive membranes are used in a continuous sheet-flow process.
The one South African plant is reported to have a capacity of
2,400,000 imperial gallons per day.

The Office of Saline Water is conducting membrane evaluation
and improved cell development at the laboratories of the Bureau of
Reclamation in Denver, Colo. Membranes being tested are from
American as well as other manufacturers. The electrodialysis units
are from Ionics, Inc., and the Netherlands, TNO. The Texas Electric
Service Co. of Fort Worth is developing improvements in the Ionics
process.

Osmionic—The second membrane process mentioned is known as
osmionic, a term which was coined because of the osmotic and ionic
forces involved in the process [34]. This is one of the new processes
developed under the Saline Water Conversion Program of the United
States and is somewhat similar to electrodialysis, except that it re-
quires no outside electrical current and no electrodes. The driving
force is obtained from the difference in concentration between a brine
and the water to be demineralized. The power supply therefore
might be obtained from salt deposits, brine wells, or by ponding saline
water and allowing the sun to concentrate the water.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Jenkins PLATE 1

ee
1. Pilot plants of W. L. Badger and Hickman distillation processes at Wrightsville

Beach, N.C.

TRIPLE-EFFECT EVAPORATORS

= a a

-TY e Ss hg
FLASH ree tere aTee Pg

2. Sea-water evaporators at Kuwait on the Persian Gulf. Westinghouse Electric Corp.

flash evaporators.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Jenkins PLATE 2

1. Bjorksten suspended envelope solar still.

y

%

‘“

2. Du Pont canopy solar still.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Jenkins PLATE 3

oe tet

1. Telkes’s flat tilted solar still.

© Picced cirectly on the grcunc eliminating steppers ong .

iassulotion .
© Avefnge dapth.ef meter.in evaporaier cpproximotely iSinches ©
© Lorgs continuous ofea bf grousd covered and wcrmed

Provision for rain wetey collection to supplement oredect

This desson provides for warming up alorge volume of ecit woler ao that confinuave operation cee Sight
distillation is possibie ct the equilibrivm tamperctures obteined at the eed ef te
oboot EB deyt. Etiminction of adpports ond insulction, wre ef 10* slepe. and type of
ay costs for equipmest) aed instattclion.  TAus the cost of fresh moter from soline woter Oy solar sistiliction is

oe reduced

2. Lof deep basin solar still (artist’s conception).
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Jenkins PLATE 4

SOS
>

1. Du Pont plastic wire supported still.

ELECTRIC
MEMBRANE

SALT WATER
NEGATIVE ' POSITIVE

2. Flectrodialysis experimental field test unit showing interior of trailer unit on left and
diagram of process on right.
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Jenkins

“BIUIOFIV) JO 91BIS IYI Ul UOISIOAUOD Joe M-j] eS Wolf JY IUIq Wysiur ey

Q3NIWH3L30 LON
O3NIWH31L30 LON
O3NIWY3130 LON
°
°
o00'oor'2
% OO00'OES'!
000'9 11")

000'or!
000'00)‘2
00006!
000's
o000‘oz
00008
000'os
000'os!

(o)

°
00's!

AlddNS 1¥907 NI
AONZ1D1430
B1LVWILIN

OagvH¥O109 -~¥3S NOLIVS
BAVCOW ~AZTIVA 3d0131NV
B3AIN SN3MO

AATIVA TVYLN39

Vi130 OLN3WV¥OVS

AVG OOSIONVHS NYS”

NVLITO0dON13W OS3IG NVS
MSAIN VLINVONUN VINVS
433y4D NYA NYS
NVLITOdO8NL3W S3139NV SOT
Y3AIN VYVID VINVS
MSAIN VYNINSA

ALNNOD VYUVSYVE VINVS
MBAIY Z3NA VINVS
YSAIY VINVW VLINVS
OdS!8O SINT NYS

NISVB Y3AIX SYNITVS
NISV8 Y3AIN O¥VeYd
AINAQD ZNYOD VINYS

VaHv

FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 295

In the simplest form of the apparatus, two cation and two anion
selective membranes form a 38-compartment cell (fig. 4). Each
chamber initially contains feed water, and the assembly or unit cell is
immersed in brine. The passage of ions from brine to the less concen-
trated water in the outer chambers through the appropriate mem-

LEGEND

tim
v4 = Cation permselective membrane
Zs

YY
N = Anion permselective membrane

SS

Z = Inert and impervious material

>

C-1 A-1 C

Fic. 4.—Schematic cross section of osmionic unit cell.

branes is necessarily electrostatically coupled with the simultaneous
transfer of ions from the center to the outer chambers.

feverse osmosis——Osmosis involves the passage of water through
a membrane from a dilute solution to a more concentrated one [35].
If enough pressure is applied to the more concentrated solution (more
than 350 p.s.i. for sea water) then the osmotic flow can be reversed
and pure water will be forced through the membrane. Results of
research sponsored by the Office of Saline Water have demonstrated

492520—59-——20

296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

that around 97 percent of the salts of sea water can be removed in one
pass through a membrane, such as cellulose acetate, but at slow rate.
Investigation aimed at increasing the durability and flow rate of
membranes is continuing.

FREEZING

Salt-water separation by freezing has been the subject of a number
of experimental researches [86, 37, 38, 39, 40]. The use of freezing
has certain inherent advantages such as a lesser tendency toward
scaling and corrosion because of the low temperatures involved and the
lower value of the heat of fusion as compared to the heat of vapori-
zation. There is also the advantage of low-temperature differentials.
However, the occlusion of brine with ice crystals has been a major
difficulty in development of a feasible process.

A promising approach to the utilization of freezing as a means
of saline-water conversion and elimination of the brine from the
crystals is a combination of freezing with evaporation being investi-
gated by the Carrier Corp. of Syracuse, N.Y. Experimental appa-
ratus and washing techniques have been developed so that now it is
possible to produce practically salt-free ice from sea water in a
continuous manner.

Figure 5 illustrates a version of the process. Chilled saline water
is admitted to a chamber under high vacuum. In this low pressure
about one-seventh of the water flashes to vapor, further chilling the
remainder which freezes to an ice-brine slurry. The slurry flows
through a separation column for counter-current washing. The vapor
formed in the freezing operation is compressed and condenses on the
ice. The melted ice becomes the fresh-water product. Part of the
product is used for washing the ice.

The experimental program on this process utilizing a small shop-
size pilot plant has not disclosed any technical problems that could
not be solved or that would render the process impracticable. Opera-
tion of the equipment is continuing and preliminary designs of a
larger pilot plant of about 15,000 gallons daily capacity are being
made. The next step is construction of that pilot plant incorporating
all components of the complete process.

In another approach to the use of freezing for demineralizing saline
water, an immiscible refrigerant such as isobutane is vaporized in
direct contact with the saline solution. The development of this prin-
ciple is under way at Cornell University [41], Ithaca, N.Y. Because
most equipment necessary for this process could be of compara-
tively simple design, it may be particularly adaptable to large-scale
installations.

Some rather basic research has been conducted in an attempt to
adapt the zone refining technique to convert saline water. A frozen
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 297

zone is passed along a column of salt water to concentrate the salt
impurities at one end. This has been done and fresh water actually
obtained but rates of production are very low; it remains to be deter-
mined if there is a basis for a practical method.

Research and development on demineralization by freezing ap-
pear worthy of great emphasis. Its inherent advantages indicate
that a freezing process when completely developed should be able to
compete economically with the most promising developments in the

distillation field.
COMPRESSOR f=
REFRIGERATION UNIT
Chilled

Refrigerant

Compressed
Vapor |

FREEZER

ICE AND
SEA WATER
SEPARATOR

j Fresh Water
i toHeat
fExchanger

Cold Brine t
_Heat Exchan

Ice & Brine 25 F—~>
}Sea Water
from Heat
Exchanger
35°F

HEAT EXCHANGER

°
er

FREEZE-EVAPORATION PROCESS

Fic. 5.—Layout of freeze evaporation, by Carrier Corporation.

OTHER PROCESSES

Lon exchange.—The phenomenon of ion exchange was investigated
about 1850 but it is only within the past 20 years that this principle
has been extensively developed commercially for treating water of
low salinity and for removal of hardness.

Salt ions can be removed from saline water by passing the water
through a mixed bed of ion-exchange material. That material soon
becomes saturated and must be regenerated by use of relatively
expensive acids and bases.

To overcome this excessive cost, a process suggested by Gilliland
[42] is being developed at the University of California [43], at
Berkeley, which employes ammonium bicarbonate as a regenerant.
When saline water is passed through such a bed, it is demineralized
and the effluent consists of water containing only ammonium bicar-
bonate. Heating the solution removes the chemical as carbon dioxide
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

and ammonia gases which are collected and used again to regenerate
the exchange resins in the bed. Thus, the costly chemicals used for
regeneration are replaced by heat. Solar heat may be applicable.

More information, such as the type of construction materials re-
quired, durability or life of the exchange resins, etc., is essential
before precise cost estimates can be made.

Solvent extraction—The extraction of water from saline solutions
by an organic solvent, to be recovered later from the extracted mixture
of water and solvent by temperature change, has been found sufli-
ciently promising for further research. One of the best solvents [44]
so far found is N-ethyl-n-butyl amine, which extracts about 80 per-
cent water at 30° C. and retains about 13 percent at the separation
temperature of 75° C. The process is under development at Texas
A. & M. College, and satisfactory laboratory equipment has now indi-
cated the need for pilot-plant development which is being initiated.

Biological action—Preliminary study of the desalting action of
biological membranes has very recently led to a research under the
United States program in which algae are to be grown in a basin of
sea water to take up salt and later removed to a second basin for
partial removal of the salt taken up [27]. Pure cultures of several
hundred algae have been grown in synthetic sea water and tests are
starting on determination of salt uptake.

Use of nuclear energy.—Owing to the high cost of nuclear gener-
ated electrical energy, it was originally felt that nuclear energy would
probably not play an early role in saline-water conversion. How-
ever, in 1957, the Office of Saline Water undertook a study of the
possible use of low-temperature nuclear heat directly in evaporation
processes. Following a preliminary investigation carried out by the
Office of Saline Water [18], the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission,
and the Fluor Corp. of Whittier, Calif., a design study is now being
made of two nuclear-heated plants employing improved flash distilla-
tion, one of 1 million gallons per day, the other of 20 million gallons
per day.

Substantial non-Federal research and development in desalting
has been conducted in the United States by private industrial organi-
zations. That work consists mainly of practical improvements in
multiple-effect, flash, and vapor-compression distillation, and devel-
opment of electrodialysis. The University of California [43] has
carried out a research and development program in several fields in-
cluding distillation, solar distillation, ion exchange, osmosis, and
several exploratory researches.

Saline-water conversion research and development outside the
United States in general parallels and supplements that in America.
In 1952 the OEKEC organized Working Party No. 8 to serve as an
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 299

ad hoc committee to plan and initiate a program of international co-
operative research in saline-water conversion. Working Party No. 8
completed its work in 1956, having attained its objectives of estab-
lishing research and development activities in four fields: the United
Kingdom conducted research in scale prevention and other methods
of improving distillation equipment; Algeria and Morocco are de-
veloping ion exchange and solar distillation; and the Netherlands
developed an electrodialysis process. The Department of the Interior
cooperated with the working party and assisted in the researches by
exchanging technical information and by consultation.

Other research and development outside the United States includes
that on electrodialysis in the Union of South Africa, Soviet Russia,
United Kingdom, Japan, and Israel; distillation in France, Israel,
England, Sweden, and the Netherlands West Indies; freezing in
France, Yugoslavia, Israel, and Italy; solar distillation in Spain,
Australia, Soviet Russia, Italy; and others. The possible use of wind
power for desalting is being investigated in Spain and Pakistan.

COST TRENDS

Saline-water conversion is complicated not only by process difficul-
ties, but also by the range of water requirements encountered. Saline
waters often vary widely in chemical composition, and the converted
water is subject to various demands of quality. Sea water is fairly
uniform in composition, with about 35,000 p.p.m. of salts. On the
other hand brackish inland waters are quite variable in total salts and
often call for special treatment to reduce or eliminate deleterious com-
pounds, objectionable for use by plants and animals, or for human con-
sumption or industrial purposes. Hardness may be a further factor,
and quantities will vary from small household demineralizers to large
central plants. Thus, desalting is at times a custom process rather than
merely routine salt-removal treatment.

In most instances the consumptive demand will be quite variable,
and storage will be necessary to permit uniform operation of the con-
version plant. Raw-water storage may at times be necessary to take
up fluctuations in supply. Depending on source and use conditions,
also, distribution from a central plant may be more efficient and
economical than operation of several plants in the same general region.
Lift and conveyance of desalted water from the seashore will constitute
a major cost.

Such variations in the requirements as to practical application of
saline-water conversion will obviously affect design and cost planning.
Process costs alone are therefore likely to be an inadequate guide to the
total cost of converted water. When supply to a population of some
size is at issue, moreover, reliability of services becomes a vital require-
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ment and likely to influence decisions on choice of process and planning
of the conversion plant. In view of these and other considerations, the
U.S. Congress recently authorized the construction of five demon-
stration plants, two of which shall have a capacity of at least 1 million
gallons per day. The five plants, to be built at both seashore and in-
terior sites, will provide invaluable information on the cost and value
of large-scale saline-water conversion.

Compared to other developments such as atomic energy, the amount
of research and practical development effort devoted to saline-water
conversion has been very small indeed. Nevertheless, considerable
commercial utilization has been made of the results, as shown on
pages 92 and 104, Department of the Interior Report on Saline Water
Conversion for 1957[3].

In the matter of cost of conversion, detailed treatment is being given
in the paper at this Symposium by Prof. Everett D. Howe of the
University of California. In more brief consideration of costs here,
we are reminded that early in the research program, it was found
that few engineers or industrial firms used similar factors for com-
puting costs. Some inventors and others omitted many of the factors
when estimating costs.

Asa practical matter, therefore, the Office of Saline Water concluded
that a standard cost-estimating procedure should be developed and
that has been done. Copies are available from the Office of Saline
Water, Department of the Interior, Washington 25, D.C. The method
is flexible enough to be used for any locality by adjustment of the cost
factors.

The following table contains estimates of cost per 1,000 gallons by
various saline-water conversion processes in the United States, with-
out credits for sale of power or other byproducts.

TABLE 1.—Cost estimates per 1,000 gallons

1957 designed or projected | 1960-70 anticipated
1952jexisting installations installations (if further research
is successful)

Sea water Brackish 35,000 5,000 35,000 5,000
35,000 5,000 p.p.m. p.p.m. p.p.m. p.p.m.
p.p.m p.p.m
Less Less
than— than—
Distillation (including solar) -_| $2. 00-$5.00 | $2. 00-$5.00 | $1. 00-$3.00 | $1. 00-$3. 00 $0. 50 $0. 50
Membrane processes.__------- (2) (2) 6.00 . 80 1.00 . 25
Freezing (Jou io men zesery (2) (2) (2) (2) . 50 . 50

Ofhers-o2csec.e 2) 2 eee (2) (2) (?) (?) -50 25

1 p.p.m.—parts per million.
3 Not developed.
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 301

It will be seen that distillation costs show some reduction from those
reported 6 years ago, and that further reductions are forecast for all
processes, although their acceptability for large-scale irrigation of
low-value crops in the United States is not yet predictable. The price
laid on the water could probably be borne by only high-value crops
under most favorable circumstances of season and market, and for
small homestead uses for vegetables and livestock. As processes are
developed, cost is reduced, and methods are adapted to specific local
materials and labor, the uses of converted sea and brackish waters are
expected to increase.

APPLICATIONS TO ARID LANDS

Our present interest being directed to the potential arid-land uses
of saline-water conversion, the following discussion deals with this
subject more specifically, with application to present conditions and
probable growth. The special importance of the arid-land areas of
the Middle East is readily seen in the light of their ancient history and
their prominence throughout the ages, under conditions very different
from those of today.

A primary uncertainty is presented by the wide variations in the
price and cost levels in various parts of the world. Labor and material
costs in different regions tend to differ in roughly the same ratio as
the over-all price levels of the regions. Therefore, adjustments are
necessary of costs and values, carried over into the applicable labor
costs and other operating expense when translating costs as computed
for United States conditions to those elsewhere, such as in the arid
belt of the Middle East. Where local materials and labor can be used
in a particular conversion process, cost of the product water for a con-
version plant would be reduced. But likewise its monetary value there
would be reduced as well. Water costs estimated for the future would
then be lessened in the ratio of the probable future price levels of
the two regions; such value adjustment might lessen anticipated con-
version costs, possibly to the point of making some developments eco-
nomically sound in the arid lands of the Middle East that would appear
uneconomical in the United States of America. For example, it has
been estimated that the 4-stage flash-distillation plant built at Kuwait
by the Westinghouse Corp., designed to utilize waste gas at no cost,
produces fresh water at about 75 cents a thousand gallons, but if
fuel at United States prices were used in that plant, cost would exceed
$2. In that case the plant would probably have been designed as a
9- or 10-stage plant so as to conserve fuel.

The general pattern of modern development of arid coastal lands
in the Middle East rests in part on a basis of industrial demand—this
term being taken to include shipping and other transportation and
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

communication requirements. Through the growth of industry and
agriculture there arises a basic growth and a wider range of activities,
thereby establishing a much broadened economy and culture. It is to
the industrial and domestic water supply that converted saline water
finds its first uses.

It is generally accepted that water is worth what it can produce.
However, the benefits that water can produce cannot always be meas-
ured in terms of money. Although the crop or the manufactured
product that water creates has a definite local monetary value, the
indirect benefits in terms of improved living standards and a more
abundant local and national economy, with resulting welfare and
contentment of peoples themselves, comprise a wealth that can never
be measured in dollars, rials, or rubles.

As far as is known, the use of desalted water for irrigation is prac-
ticed only to the extent of some subsistence and hydroponic farming.
However, progress to date certainly justifies limited anticipation of
some early agricultural uses without rigid equations of cash benefits to
costs and some looking to the future when economic feasibility may be
reached. For this purpose a preliminary study was made of irrigable
areas in Texas and California [45] at various elevations and distances
from the coast which need additional water and might be served
directly or by exchange from converted sea water. This was done for
California on a basin-by-basin basis as shown by plate 5. As one
example, in basin No. 9 in California it was found that some 150,000
acre-feet of new converted sea water could be used on irrigable soils
below 500 feet elevation, after first making full use of all available
fresh-water supplies in the entire basin. In the Jower Rio Grande
Basin in Texas some 1,650,000 acre-feet could be used on the same basis.

Similar information on areas bordering the eastern Mediterranean
which might be reached with converted sea water could be compiled.
Available topographic data indicate that there are more than 20
million acres of land at elevations below 200 meters and within 100
miles of the seacoast in the eastern Mediterranean countries of Greece,
Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, and Egypt. Additional extensive
areas of arable land undoubtedly border sources of brackish waters.
If use were made also of the valuable information on water deficiencies
and surpluses of southeast Asia being prepared for this committee
in the World Climatic Atlas by the Laboratory of Climatology of
Centerton, N.J., together with available data on arable soils in the
area, determination could be made of the location and extent of arable
lands within these vast areas which could become productive with con-
verted saline waters. It is urged that such studies be undertaken.

The foregoing has to do with irrigation only, but we should not be
unmindful that more than three-fourths of the people in the world
FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 303

live at elevations less than 1,500 feet above sea level. Thus, consid-
erable ultimate municipal and industrial use of converted saline water
in these areas seems assured.

Finally, a word as to the future. As I have pointed out, the need
for substantially new discoveries of phenomena or processes for saline-
water conversion is not always understood. It is believed possible that
a considerable amount of further basic research to discover phenomena
and processes not yet explored will prove justified. There are equal
possibilities for much additional progress in the development and
improvement of the specific processes discussed and partly explored to
date in the quest for low-cost saline-water conversion. ‘These possi-
bilities as well as those of basic research should be greatly furthered
by improved coordination of the efforts of the various countries con-
cerned with a view to building on the foundation laid by the
Washington Symposium and continued by this Symposium.

REFERENCES

1. Picton, W. L. Water use in the U.S. 1900-1975. U.S. Dept. Commerce
Business Service Bull. 136, 1956.

2. Preliminary survey of the saline water resources of the U.S. U.S.
Geol. Sury. Water Supply Pap. 1374, 1957.

3. Saline water conversion report for 1957. U.S. Dept. Interior, January 1958.

4. Saline Water Act. U.S. Congr. Publ. Law 448, 82d Congr., 2d Sess., July
3, 1952. Amended by Publ. Law 111, 84th Congr., Ist Sess., June 29, 1955.

5. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-

Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, 1958.

6. Tribus, Myron. Energy considerations in the preparation of fresh water
from the sea. Unpublished paper. [January 1949.]

7. Research on the minimum energy requirements for sea water conversion
processes. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Development
Progress Rep. No. 9.

8. Chapman, O. L.; Lineweaver, G. W.; and Jenkins, D.S. Demineralization of
saline waters. A compendium of existing and potential separation proc-
esses, phenomena, and energy sources. U.S. Dept. Interior, October 1952.

9. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Development Progress
Rep. Nos. 1 to 20. Office of Saline Water, U.S. Dept. Interior.

10. Heinz Engineering Company. Compression distillation with steam turbine
power. Rep. submitted to U.S. Dept. Interior, March 1955.

11. Cywin, Allen. Summary of industrial accomplishment and research in
saline water distillation. Proceedings, Symposium on saline water con-
version 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 29-34, 1958.

12. Badger, W. L. Production of potable water from sea water by various
combinations of thermocompression and wmultiple-effect evaporation.
Prepared for U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water, 1955.

13. Jenkins, D. S. Fresh water from salt. Sci. Amer., vol. 196, No. 8,
March 1957.

14. Research on and development of Badger-Hickman centrifugal distillation
techniques and equipments. Saline Water Conversion Program Research
and Development Progress Rep. No. 12.
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

24.

25.

30.

31.

32.

Research continuation on Badger-Hickman centrifugal distillation testing
on Unit No. 4. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Develop-
ment Progress Rep. No. 15.

Research on forced-circulation and drop-wise condensation techniques for
improving heat transfer rates for vapor compression evaporators. Saline
Water Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep.
No. 8.

Neville-Jiones, David. Research and development in distillation and scale
prevention in the United Kingdom. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline
Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568,
pp. 35-48, 1958.

Study of the applicability of combining nuclear reactors with saline water
distillation processes. ‘Saline Water Conversion Program Research and
Development Progress Rep. No. 19.

Jenkins, D. S. Developments in saline water conversion. Journ. American
Water Works Assoc., vol. 49, No. 8, August 1957.

Research on and analysis of single-effect low temperature flash evapora-
tion process. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Develop-
ment Progress Rep. No. 18.

. A standardized procedure for estimating costs of saline water conversion.

U.S. Dept. Interior, March 1956.

. Demineralization of saline water with solar energy. Saline Water

Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 4.

. Strobel, J. J. Summary of solar distillation processes. Proceedings,

Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res.
Coune. Publ. 568, pp. 117-122, 1958.

Gomella, Cyril. Solar distillation developments in the eastern Mediter-
ranean. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat.
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 131-1386, 1958.

Wilson, B. W. Solar distillation research and its application in Australia.
Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad.
Sei.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 123-130, 1958.

. Gillam, W. S. Ion-transport and ultrafiltration. Proceedings, Symposium

on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Coune. Publ.
568, pp. 218-223, 1958.

. Levin, G. V. Physiological mechanisms of sodium and chloride ion-trans-

port. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat.
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 212-217, 1958.

. Wegelin, E. Multi-compartment electrodialysis and its technical develop-

ment. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat.
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 259-264, 1958.

. Hookway, H. T. The development of membranes for electrodialytic proc-

esses. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat.
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counce. Publ. 568, pp. 259-264, 1958.

Volekman, O. B., and Moyers, W. H. Ion-selective membrane research and
electrodialysis engineering development in the Union of South Africa.
Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad.
Sci.-Nat. Res. Counce. Publ. 568, pp. 288-315, 1958.

Sieveka, BE. H. Summary of developments in electrodialysis equipment.
Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad.
Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 255-258, 1958.

Zaitsev, D. V. Demineralization of water. Moscow. 1948. Translated for
U.S. Department of the Interior, Office of Saline Water, 1958.
40.

41,

43.

45.

FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS—JENKINS 305

. Design, construction, field testing, and cost analysis of an experimental

electrodialysis demineralizer for brackish waters. Saline Water Conver-
sion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 11.

. The osmionic process. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and

Development Progress Rep. No. 14.

. Water and ion flow through imperfect osmotic membranes. Saline Water

Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 16.

. Woolrich, W. R. Refrigeration method progress in the conversion of saline

waters. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat.
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 319-828, 1958.

. Vacino, E., and Visitin, B. Acqua potabile mediante il congenamento dell’

acqua di mare. Ann. Chim. Appl., vol. 35, pp. 181-222, 1945.

. Thompson, T. G., and Nelson, K. H. Desalting sea water by freezing.

Refrigerating Eng., vol. 62, No. 7, pp. 4448 and 90, July 1954.

. Hendrickson, Harold M. Conventional freezing cycles and economics for

saline water conversion. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Con-
version 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 339-376, 1958.

Rose, Arthur. Basic ice crystal separation investigations. Proceedings,
Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res.
Counce. Publ. 568, pp. 324-3382, 1958.

Wiegandt, H. F. Saline water conversion by direct freezing. Proceedings,
Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res.
Counce. Publ. 568, pp. 877-3880, 1958.

. Gilliland, E. R. Fresh water for the future. Ind. and Eng. Chem., vol. 47,

No. 12, December 1955.
Howe, E. D. Sea water conversion program. Progress report for the State
of California Legislature. Univ. California, 1956.

. Hood, D. W. Desalination by liquid-liquid extraction. Texas A. & M.

Research Foundation. U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water “Open
File” Rep., July 1956.

Potential use of converted sea water for irrigation in parts of California and
Texas. U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water, Research and De-
velopment Progress Rep. No. 3, April 1954.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as

the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.
iy i { ‘val ay a

‘

roa)

‘hans

ba \
agra ss ¥,

PRLS aera, Gk ee

HRY i

The Abundance of the Chemical Elements’

By Hans E. Suess

Professor of Geochemistry
University of California
La Jolla, Calif.

[With 4 plates]

Everysopy KNows that gold is a very rare element and iron is very
abundant on the surface of the earth. Elements like magnesium,
silicon, oxygen, or aluminum represent the major constituents of the
earth’s crust and its rocks, whereas others like gallium, platinum,
thallium, and uranium are present only in rare minerals or in the form
of minor impurities. Just how much more abundant one element is
relative to another is a question dealt with in the field of geochemistry.

The first attempt to answer this question in a quantitative way was
made by F. W. Clarke and H. S. Washington during the last decades
of the 19th century. Numerous rock analyses were compared by these
authors and an average figure for the occurrence of each element in
terrestrial rocks was given. In 1889 Clarke said that he attempted to
represent the relative abundances of the elements obtained in this way
by a curve, taking their atomic weight for one set of ordinates. He
had hoped that some sort of periodicity might become evident, but no
such regularity appeared. During the following 50 years the work of
geochemists led to an understanding of the distribution of the elements
between various types of rocks, but it could not yet be explained why
some elements were more abundant than others.

Another basic question that could not be answered at the time that
Clarke and Washington began their studies was whether the earth was
unique in its chemical composition compared to other heavenly bodies.
Did other planets, the sun, and the stars have an entirely different
composition or was the composition of the earth’s crust representative
in a general way of the material of which the universe is composed ?
Three lines of new scientific evidence enable us now to interpret geo-
chemical data and answer all these questions in a satisfactory way.

1 Reprinted by permission from Foote Prints, vol. 29, No. 2, 1957, published by Foote
Mineral Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

307
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

These are: spectral analysis of the sun and stars, chemical analysis of
meteorites, and the isotopic composition of the elements.

THE COMPOSITION OF THE SUN AND STARS

Spectral analysis of the light of stars and distant nebulae is un-
doubtedly the most direct way to determine the relative abundances
of the elements in the universe asa whole. The intensity of the absorp-
tion lines, the so-called Frauenhofer lines, in the spectrum depends on
the concentration of the atoms causing the absorption. In general it
is not difficult to identify the element that causes an observed absorp-
tion line. In order to calculate the correlation of line intensity with
atomic concentration, a number of physical properties of the absorbing
atoms and the thermodynamic state of the absorbing stellar matter
have to be known in detail.

Unfortunately, the experimental determinations of these properties
are not yet complete and one has to rely in many cases on theoretical
calculations which often give only crude approximations. Further-
more, various other quantities such as optical depth of the layer in
which the absorption occurs, thermal velocity of the absorbing atoms,
their macroscopic turbulent motion, and other characteristics have to be
known before the exact functional dependence of line intensity and
atomic concentration can be calculated.

The first abundance data based on special analyses were obtained
by Miss Payn in 1925 and by Russel in 1929. Since then the work
of these authors has been improved and extended by many in-
vestigators, and it was found that the chemical composition of the
universe is indeed remarkably uniform, although the most recent
investigations indicate definite systematic variations in the composi-
tion of stars, depending on their age and their position in the galaxies.

The most important result of the astronomical investigations is
the discovery that hydrogen is by far the most abundant element in
the universe. Next to hydrogen in abundance is helium. In the sun
helium constitutes about one-fourth of the atoms. All the other ele-
ments make up only about 1 percent of the sun’s total mass. The
most prominent of these other elements are carbon, nitrogen, oxygen,
and neon. Among the metals sodium, magnesium, aluminum, cal-
cium, and iron are the most abundant ones.

COMPOSITION OF METEORITES

Another set of empirical abundance data can be derived from chemi-
cal analysis of meteorites. It is generally assumed that meteoritic
matter has undergone less chemical fractionation than any terrestrial
material found on the surface of the earth since the time it was
formed from solar material. The main type of fractionation recog-
nizable in meteorites is that of a separation of the elements into three
chemical phases: a metal phase, a sulfide phase, and a silicate phase.
ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—SUESS “309

Iron meteorites consist of metal and small amounts of sulfide only.
Other meteorites are composed entirely of silicate.

A large fraction of meteorites, primarily the so-called chondrites,
contain all three phases in remarkably constant proportions. It is
generally believed that the chondrites contain all the condensable,
nonvolatile components of solar matter in approximately primeval
proportion. In any case it seems unlikely that chemically similar
elements were separated from each other when the meteorites formed
from a gas cloud because of the incompleteness of the separation of
the three main phases.

Harold C. Urey compared the mean densities of meteorites with
those of the terrestrial planets and the moon and concluded that aver-
age chondrites and the moon probably contain the same ratio of metal
to silicate, whereas the earth and the terrestrial planets contain rela-
tively more metal. During the formation of the terrestrial planets
a fraction of the silicate originally present escaped condensation.
The much lower densities of the outer planets, Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, show that these planets have retained
most of the volatile substances, a large part of the hydrogen and
helium, the oxygen as water, nitrogen as ammonia, and carbon as
methane.

Clearly, chemical analysis of meteorites cannot tell us anything
about the solar abundances of the rare gases and of elements that
form such highly volatile compounds. The concentration of many
other elements in meteorites, however, shows a surprising agreement
with the results of astronomical data. The relative amounts of ele-
ments such as sodium, aluminum, silicon, potassium, or calcium are
found to be the same in the sun and in meteorites within the limits
of errors of the analytical methods. Some values for heavier ele-
ments, for example strontium and barium, are also in perfect
agreement.

True differences undoubtedly exist in the case of the lightest ele-
ments, particularly for lithium, beryllium, and boron. The concen-
trations of these elements on the surface of the sun are much smaller
than those expected from the data on meteorites. The abundance
of lithium relative to silicon on the sun is less than one-hundredth
of that in meteorites. Beryllium and boron may be almost completely
absent.

The deficiency of these elements on the sun is now understood as a
consequence of thermonuclear reactions in the sun’s interior. These
reactions use up these elements as well as the heavy hydrogen isotope,
deuterium. At the high temperatures of the sun’s interior these ele-
ments react with protons and form either helium or heavier nuclear
species. The nature of these reactions is now known in detail. It
is also known that the isotopes of carbon and nitrogen participate
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

in nuclear reactions which lead to the transmutation of hydrogen into
helium. The sun and the stars derive their energy from this
transmutation.

THE ISOTOPIC COMPOSITION OF THE ELEMENTS

The nuclei of the atoms are composed of neutrons and protons.
Nuclei containing the same number of protons are called isotopes;
they belong to the same chemical element and in general cannot be
separated from one another by natural chemical processes. Most
elements are composed of more than one isotope. The isotopic com-
position of all the elements is known with great accuracy.

For most elements, this composition is absolutely constant. It is
the same in all terrestrial material and in meteorites. Small varia-
tions have only been observed for light elements as a consequence of
minute differences in the chemical properties due to the difference in
mass. Variations also occur if one or more isotopes of an element
are produced by radioactive decay as in the case of lead. Otherwise
we have reason to assume that the isotopic composition of the ele-
ments is basically a universal quantity valid for our solar system and
for many stars.

If one plots the logarithm of the percentage of each isotope in a
given element against the mass number (the number of neutrons plus
protons) of the isotope, very peculiar figures are obtained, as shown
in figure 1, taking several elements as examples. It was impossible
for a long time to interpret these figures and to explain them in a
quantitative way. Many scientists have been fascinated by their
mysterious appearance in the same way that men have been fascinated
by the mysterious features of the constellations in the night sky for
the past thousands of years.

Certain rules have been recognized governing the isotopic com-
position of the elements, as for example the rule of Harkins which
states that isotopes with an odd mass number are on the average less
abundant than their even-mass-numbered neighbors. Another re-
markable observation can be expressed in the following way: the
geometry of the figures obtained by plotting the logarithms of the
isotope abundances of a given element against their mass number, as
shown in figure 2, is similar for neighboring elements with even
atomic number. The character of the figures changes in general only
gradually with atomic number.

However, in regions where the nuclei contain certain numbers
of neutrons, an abrupt change occurs. These numbers of neutrons,
the so-called magic numbers, signify nuclear shell closures. ‘The
prominent magic numbers are: 8, 20, 28, 50, 82, and 126. The irregu-
larities that occur beyond barium may be interpreted on this basis,
since we are dealing with isotopes of a “magic number” of 82.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Suess PEATE

Moonlight view of the 200-inch Hale telescope dome at Palomar. Astronomic observation is
an important source of data on cosmic abundances of the elements.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Suess PeAsiea2

wees 4. ee ee

1. The 200-inch Hale telescope pointing north.

2. Two spectra (a and b) of the constant-velocity star Arcturus taken about 6 months
apart clearly show the Doppler shift caused by the earth’s orbital velocity of 50 km./sec.
Pp PFE ) }
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Suess PLATE 3

2. The Foote deposits at Kings Mountain, N.C., are rich in lithium and also contain

substantial quantities of beryllium. In adjacent pegmatites, the heavier elements tin
and columbium (niobium) also occur.
S oud ul SULOLE {1 Jo YJinoj-9uo a qe Soy aiiysubs

q1adoid 24} fo uOTjDUN] & 9q 0} UMOUY MOU ale
sUIWIO}JIp se ‘s}USW eY} fO soouepunqe JejoOs ayy, “YSty sajtw Cg

un IY Oty mM *‘JUSUWI]9 JUBpUNnge }SOUI 94} SI UIs O1 ‘Te]onu STULOFe 3}

t
‘sisAjeue [eiqoods aq Pl sououtwoid ijos 3aT]

PLATE 4

ne)
mn
ao
ra
5
a
7]
~
i=
s
&
5
g
2
E
ny

311

ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—SUESS

LG CO SSTORR RS TRE TY

-OSI P2JOqUINU-SSPUI-UDAD 9JOUSP SaPIIQ, *sJUaUIaTa awWOs fo UOTIsOdwos sIdojosI Jo uoNeUasaid s1ydeiIg—] ‘or

tt

Ly

A

*sadojos! polaquinu-sseul-ppo ‘saienbs fsadoy

=
=

~S
=
x
os}
=
=
=

nt
lial

AGnnzh

eee

=}

I

ae
is)

c=)
=
nN

Oe)
o

ie)

seRanoen sz 2

=

21

492520—59
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

312

sjuiod ayy,

0sI

‘soul] Aq paj2euu0. ore ‘Ajaje1vdas ppo pue udad ‘JudUIETa Yea yo sadojosI JOT

‘sadojos! palaquinu-ssewi-ppo ‘saienbg

Ort iat

*sadoJOst poloquinu-ssBul-UaAd ‘sajoIIZ

021 oll
3d010S1 40 YISWNN SSYW

*satoads Ivajonu jo ssouepunqy—'Z ‘O17

NOITIIW T OL TWND3 NOIIIIS OL 3ALLVI3Y 3dOL0SI 40 JONVGNNEY

2S.
Te.

SoOMbewo — a

=
ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—SUESS 313

Furthermore, one can see that nuclear species containing just such a
number of neutrons are in general exceptionally abundant (fig. 3).

These facts indicate that the abundance of nuclear species is deter-
mined by nuclear properties. The individual abundances of nuclear
species should therefore form a coherent system of some kind; they

10 BILLION

1 BILLION

100 MILLION

110 MILLION

MS

1 MILLION

|
TMT EEE
SNAG
JAA EEE
POW AN EEE

NUMBER OF NUCLEI OF A GIVEN MASS NUMBER PER MILLION SILICON ATO!

\
CONN
ELLE FSN LG

ERGEN
CTT LETT ev LA
LUTTE ETT Terr

MASS NUNBEB"

Fic. 3.—Abundance of nuclei plotted against their mass number. The upper line refers to
nuclei with even, the lower line to those with odd, mass number.

~
Ss

should depend in a similar fashion on the number of protons and
the number of neutrons in a nucleus.

We know the relative abundance of nuclei containing the same
number of protons (isotopes) with great precision from mass-
spectroscopic measurements, and can expect that all the abundances
of the nuclear species should in some way be connected with these
data. This indeed can be shown to be the case.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

It is possible to modify within the limits of the error of the ana-
lytical data the values for the abundances of the elements in meteorites
in such a way that the abundances of the individual nuclear species
as a function of their mass number form regular smooth lines for
the odd-mass-numbered isotopes. A similar smooth line is obtained
with these modified abundance values, if one adds up at each mass
number the abundance values of even-mass-numbered species with
the same mass number (isobars). The isotopic composition of ad-
jacent elements with even atomic number (graphically represented
as in fig. 2) then fit together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle (see fig. 3).

Careful estimates, weighing the possible errors in the empirical
abundance data of the elements, were made by H. C. Urey and the
author. They led to an abundance distribution as shown in figure 3
and in table 1.

THE ORIGIN OF THE ELEMENTS

When in 1889 Clarke was looking for regularities in the relative
abundances of the elements, he expected to find some connection with
the periodic table. Spectral analysis of the stars and chemical anal-
ysis of the meteorites together with determinations of the isotopic
composition of the elements made it possible more than 40 years later
to discern certain types of regularities, but these regularities followed
different laws from those of the atomic structure and had nothing to
do with the periodic table. An entirely new aspect began to reveal
itself, promising to lead far deeper into the fundamental fields of
science than Clarke had expected.

We have seen that solar abundances of the elements reflect proper-
ties of the atomic nucleus. The matter surrounding us represents the
ashes of cosmic nuclear reactions. These reactions took place some
6 billion years ago at a time before our sun and the planets existed.
They led to the formation of many radioactive nuclear species which
subsequently decayed into the stable isotopes of the existing elements.
Only a few rare radioactive species such as the isotopes of uranium,
thorium, and potassium 40 are still present today like smoldering
sparks that survived from the time of the original nuclear fire.

For many years scientists have tried to explain the mechanism of
the nuclear reactions that led to the formation of nuclear species
and their abundance distribution. Our detailed knowledge of nuclear
abundances serves now as a firm basis for such considerations. Many
theories have been advanced, none of which could account for all
the empirical facts, even in a crude way. All the past theories had in
common the assumption that the matter surrounding us was created
by one and the same nuclear process. The existence of radioactive
nuclei and their abundance lead to the conclusion that this process
must have taken place some 5 to 7 billion years ago.
315

TaBLE 1.—Abundances of the elements in the primeval gas cloud from which the
earth and the meteorites formed

ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—SUESS

[The number of atoms of each element per million atoms of silicon is given in the table]

some Element Atoms Atomic Element Atoms
0.

1 | Hydrogen__-__- 30 billion. 44 | Ruthenium_-_-_} 1.49

2) | elimi ses = 4 billion. 45 | Rhodium__-__- 0.214

on oithiome sss 100, 46 | Palladium_-__.} 0.675

4 | Beryllium____- 20. ATo ||P Silver Sisson 222 0.26

jap bOrone sas saa 24, 48 | Cadmium_-_-_-_- 0.89.

Gain@arbonZ=2222— 10 million. 49 | Indium______- 0.11.

Gis Nitrogen 222/22 3 million. SOM in 22 ee ee 1.33.

SuimOxycena. 2222 30 million. 51 | Antimony__-_-]| 0.246

9 | Fluorine_____- 1,600. 52 i tellunume 2 4.67.
LOM Neons 26535 2_ 8.6 million. 53) Lodimes 222 bu 2 0.80.
tie) Sodimm=22.-.— 43,800. 54 | Xenon______- 4.0.
12 | Magnesium_-_-_| 912,000. 55) |) Cesium co. 0.456
13 | Aluminum__-_-_| 94,800. 50s | Barium 2: 253 3.66
14S Silicones 42a 1 million. 57 | Lanthanum_--_| 2.00
15 | Phosphorus._-| 10,000. 58° | (Cerium. S22 2.26
164); Sulphur... .-_ 375,000. 59 | Praseodymium-_} 0.40.
172 \ aC hiorine:—-- = — 8,850. 60 | Neodymium_-_-_| 1.44.
Se eArecone ss ss ee- 150,000 61 | Promethium___| 0.
19 | Potassium___-_| 3,160. 62 | Samarium_-_-_-_| 0.664.
20), Calcium ____- 49,000 63 | Europium.-_ __| 0.19.
21 | Scandium___-_- 28. 64 | Gadolinium_-__} 0.684.
22. | Titanium____- 2,440. 65+) Derbiumo_ 222 0.096.
23 | Vanadium__-_-.| 220. 66 | Dysprosium___] 0.556.
24 } Chromium_-_-__| 7,800. 67 | Holmium_---- 0.118.
25 | Manganese__-_| 6,850. 68, | Erbium 22. 2 0.316.
26) MUlrons 2.265. 600,000 69 | Thultum —_---- 0.032.
ZialeCobaltass.22— 1,800. 70 | Ytterbium____| 0.220.
28 | Nickel_.....-- 27,400. 71 | Lutetium_____ 0.050.
Zn aCOpper-— = 2 212: (25 \ eatin. 2 0.438.
SOR eZAN Clea a= 2 486 73 | Tantalum_-___- 0.065
SL iieGalligme .2 2.2 11.4 74 | Tungsten_.... 0.49.
32 | Germanium__-_| 50.5 75 | Rhenium_-_-__- O2135:
Bo WATSEnIC= ==. — 2 4 76) | Osmiume 222-2 1.00.
34 | Selenium __-__-_ 67.6 Gi, dridgum sate | 0.821.
35 | Bromine__-_-_-- 13.4. (8 || Platinunt 22 1.625.
36 | Krypton_____- DIRS: (OM) Goldszasesecke 0.145.
37 | Rubidium_-_-_-_] 6.5. 80° | Merecury..---- 0.017.
38 | Strontium__ _-| 18.9. Si Rhalliam ss... (ale
39.) Yttrium.) 8.9. 827 Meadors 5
40 | Zirconium__.-_| 54.5. 83 | Bismuth____-- 0.1
41) (Niobium 2222 1.0. 90) | Bhorium 2222. 0.02
42 | Molybdenum__}| 2.42. 92 | Uranium _-_-_-- 0.006

43 | Technetium___| 0.

The earlier theories of the origin of the elements can be divided
into two groups: equilibrium theories and nonequilibrium theories.
In the equilibrium theories it is assumed that the existing abundance
distribution corresponds approximately to the equilibrium concentra-
tions of the nuclear species at a certain temperature and pressure at
which they were “frozen in.” This assumption requires a correlation
of abundances with the total binding energies of the nuclei. Such
correlation seems indeed to exist, but only within certain relatively
narrow ranges of mass numbers. The thermodynamic parameters,
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

however, cannot be adjusted in such a way that the over-all abundance
distribution would correspond to that of a thermodynamic equi-
librium. It was therefore assumed that equilibrium considerations
cannot be regarded as a useful way of obtaining reasonable approxi-
mations.

In the nonequilibrium theories it is hopefully assumed that a
relatively simple type of kinetic process has led to the empirical
abundance distribution. Two such theories have been attracting wide
interest: the neutron buildup theory, proposed in 1948 by George
Gamow, and the polyneutron fission theory by Mayer and Teller.
According to the neutron buildup theory the heavier nuclei were
formed by the addition of neutrons to very light nuclei and by sub-
sequent beta decay into stable nuclear species.

Many features, in particular the smoothness of the abundance lines
(fig. 3) at higher mass numbers, show conclusively that such processes
have indeed taken place. However, this theory cannot explain the
abundance of the lighter elements, the excessive abundance of iron,
and the existence of the light isotopes of many heavier elements.
Similarly, the polyneutron fission theory predicts certain features
in the abundance distribution but fails to approximate the over-all
trend of the abundance data as a function of mass number. The
theory leads to abundances of the heavy elements which are many
thousand times too high.

These and many other attempts have finally convinced scientists that
it is impossible to explain the abundances of the elements and their
isotopes as a product of one particular type of nuclear reaction. A
group of scientists at the California Institute of Technology has found
a surprisingly simple way out of this dilemma by considering solar
and planetary matter as a mixture of the product of different types
of nuclear reactions, in particular such reactions as can plausibly be
assumed to occur in the interior of stars.

Occasionally astronomers observe the sudden appearance of a
bright new star, a so-called nova. The brightest of them, the super-
novae, occur in our galaxies about once every 500 years. The super-
novae, however, are bright enough to be observable in distant galaxies
almost every year. The energy produced in a supernova outburst
is equivalent to that of a hydrogen bomb of a size several times that
of the sun. The debris of the stellar explosion is thrown out into
space.

One interesting observation points to a true similarity between man-
made hydrogen bombs and supernova explosions. The astronomer
Baade observed that the light intensity of some supernovae decreases
in a regular way within 56 days to just one-half of its value. The
debris from explosions of hydrogen bombs was found to contain the
heavy isotope californium 254. This isotope has a natural fission
ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—SUESS 317

half-life of just 56 days. The possibility has been widely discussed
recently that the light emitted by the gas cloud resulting from the ex-
plosion of a supernova is essentially supplied by energy from the
breakup of californium 254 nuclei.

If this hypothesis is true, then the occurrence of such a transuranium
element as californium in supernovae proves that neutron buildup
of heavy elements takes place during the explosion, necessarily lead-
ing to the formation of all nuclear species predicted by the neutron
buildup theory.

There is a variety of other possibilities that can lead to the
explosion of a star. Helium, continuously produced from hydrogen
in most stars, can react at the high pressures of a stellar interior to
form carbon 12, oxygen 16, and heavier elements. When the buildup
of nuclei reaches iron, the star can become unstable and expel a large
fraction of its mass into outer space. The debris of such stars will
contain large amounts of iron. Other types of stellar explosions will
result in the formation of the light elements preferentially. Certain
types of stars have been observed to eject matter continuously. Vari-
ous mechanisms of nuclear synthesis proposed in earlier theories
may be realized in the interior of different types of stars. In this
way it becomes understandable that these theories were capable of
predicting the relative abundances of nucleids of a certain type and
of a certain mass range, but always failed to account for all the
empirical facts.

The question of whether one can accept the hypothesis that the
elements have formed in stars depends largely on quantitative consid-
erations of the absolute amounts that can be produced in such a
way during a reasonable time interval, and the amount necessary
to explain the observed composition of the stars of our galaxies.
One can estimate that at present only about one-half of the mass of
our galaxies is concentrated in stars. The other half is present in the
form of interstellar gas and dust.

It can be assumed that about 7 billion years ago our galaxies had
the form of a huge gas mass of pure hydrogen. Out of this gas mass,
large hydrogen stars condensed. In their interior hydrogen was con-
verted into helium and into heavier elements. The rate of such
processes in large stars is greater than in small ones, so that the large
stars become unstable relatively quickly. The matter they ejected
contained heavier elements. New generations of stars accumulated
continuously from interstellar matter. They contained increasing
amounts of heavier elements. Our sun, the solar system, and the
earth were formed about 4.5 billion years ago. New astronomical
evidence indicates that stars younger than our sun contain a larger
percentage of heavier elements.
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

To many scientists this picture seems now acceptable. Many details
are still unknown or questionable and will have to be evaluated in
close collaboration between astronomers, nuclear physicists, and geo-
chemists. In this connection the abundances of the elements lithium,
beryllium, and boron may become particularly interesting, because
these elements can only form under very special conditions. They are
easily destroyed at high stellar temperatures.

Our picture of the origin of the elements cannot be correlated in
its present stage with the fundamental question whether the universe
as a whole is eternal or has been created at a defined time. The
present attempts by F. Hoyle and others to recognize nuclear genesis
as part of a consistent cosmological model are not quite convincing.
We can expect fascinating developments of our knowledge in these
fields of science.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.
Earthquakes and Related Sources of
Evidence on the Earth’s Internal Structure

By K. E. BULLEN

Professor of Applied Mathematics
University of Sydney, Australia

EARTHQUAKE ENERGY

WHEN THE suBJECT of earthquakes is mentioned the nonseismologist
commonly thinks of death and destruction: every year there are a
number of earthquakes in various parts of the world which com-
mand newspaper headlines because of the great damage done. Per-
haps the greatest recent earthquake is the one that occurred in Assam
on August 15, 1950, causing utter devastation over some thousands of
square miles, and felt over an area in excess of a million square miles.

During the past 200 years or so there has been a steady accumula-
tion of systematic knowledge of earthquake occurrence and effects.
For example, it is now well known that earthquakes originate largely
in two main belts. Eighty percent of all earthquake energy comes
from a belt that passes around the Pacific Ocean and affects countries
with coastlines bordering on this ocean—for example, New Zealand,
New Guinea, Japan, the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, California,
Colombia, Ecuador, and Chile. A second belt passes through the
Mediterranean region eastward across Asia, and joins the first belt
in the Kast Indies. The energy released in the second belt amounts
to 15 percent of the total, leaving only 5 percent for the whole of the
rest of the world.

It is also known that 85 percent of the energy comes from centers
or “foci” within 50 miles or less of the surface, the remaining 15
percent coming from foci down to a depth of 450 miles. During the
present century, 1.e., over the whole period of accurate recording of
earthquakes, there has, in fact, been no earthquake with a focal depth
exceeding 450 miles. Moreover, all but one of the earthquakes which
originated near this extreme depth have been confined to the circum-
pacific belt. The exceptional earthquake originated at a depth of
nearly 400 miles below Spain in 1954.

319
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The total number of earthquakes is very great. On an average
there are 10 earthquakes each year which are regarded as national
disasters. Another hundred, classed as destructive earthquakes, do
considerable damage, while a thousand do at least some damage. Ten
thousand others are strong enough to cause alarm, and a hundred
thousand are felt by human beings every year. In addition to that,
a great many more earthquakes are instrumentally detected.

The energy released in an extreme earthquake is more than one
(American) billion times that in the smallest generally felt earth-
quake. In the extreme earthquake the energy is about the same as
that in a major hurricane; but whereas the latter energy takes some
hours or more to spend itself and covers a great area, the energy
in an earthquake issues in the space of a few seconds at most from a
confined region below the earth’s surface whose linear dimensions
do not ordinarily exceed a few miles. The energy in the extreme
earthquake is nearly a hundred thousand times that in a normal atom
bomb explosion, and perhaps ten to one hundred times that in a
typical hydrogen bomb explosion.

Seismologists, who study earthquakes by physical means, have long
realized that any real understanding of the forces that bring about
earthquakes must be preceded by a thorough detailed study of the
structure of the earth below the surface. And it happens that earth-
quakes themselves provide the principal means of unraveling this
structure. The greater part of seismologists’ efforts is, in fact, de-
voted to analyzing physical data on earthquakes with a view to
charting out the earth’s interior to the highest precision possible.

When an earthquake occurs, it sends waves down into the earth’s
interior, and the shapes and speeds of the waves are influenced by the
nether regions they traverse. The waves, on emerging again at the
surface, are recorded by seismographs in the thousand or so seis-
mological observatories that are spread over the globe in nearly all
countries. Every year there are many earthquakes large enough to
send sizable waves right through the earth’s interior, including the
center. In deciphering the “seismograms,” i.e., the records of the
waves taken at the surface, the seismologist is in effect X-raying the
earth, for seismic waves, mathematically speaking, are very similar to
light waves.

The immediate cause of the larger earthquakes is known to be the
release of elastic strain energy which has accumulated in sizable
volumes of material in the earth below the surface, sometimes over
a long period beforehand. There comes a stage when the material
is strained to breaking point, and the place where fracture starts be-
comes the focus of an earthquake. The point of the earth’s surface
above the focus is called the epicenter; it is usually in the vicinity
of the epicenter that the main damage is done. If the epicenter is
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN 321

at sea, then, depending on the characteristics of the fracture at the
focus, there may be formed great seismic sea waves, or tsunami, which
can cause havoc along low-lying shores of adjacent U- and V-shaped
bays. There is as yet no universally accepted explanation of the pri-
mary causes that give rise to this accumulation of strain energy
in the earth’s interior, although nearly all theories relate the develop-
ment of strain to the earth’s thermal history.

TYPES OF EARTHQUAKE WAVES

When a seismogram is scrutinized, it is found, on the first level of
examination, to show the presence of three broad classes of seismic
waves. The first identification of these waves was made by Oldham
in England in 1897, nearly 70 years after the relevant mathematical
wave theory had been formulated.

One of the three classes consists of waves that travel over the earth’s
surface and do not penetrate to great depths. On seismograms taken
at considerable epicentral distances, these waves appear as the largest
(except when the depth of focus is appreciable) ; this is because the
surface waves, which spread out in only two dimensions, diminish
more slowly with distance than the other waves which spread out
through the three dimensions of the earth’s interior. The surface
waves are dispersed as they travel (the speed of any one group of
surface waves depends on the wavelength) and the degree of dis-
persion for a given epicentral distance throws important light on
the structure of the outermost 25 miles or so of the earth. The
present article, however, will be mainly concerned with the other
classes of waves, called bodily waves, for these are the ones which
supply information on the earth’s deeper interior.

The two classes of bodily seismic waves are called the primary or
P waves, and the secondary or S waves, respectively. Both P and S
waves travel faster than the surface waves, and they contribute to
the earlier part of the record on the seismogram. The P waves are
longitudinal like waves in sound, while the S waves cause the particles
of the earth to move transversely to the direction of wave advance.
For points not too close to the focus and epicenter, earthquake energy
can for many purposes be regarded as traveling outward along seis-
mic rays, analogous to rays of light. For most of their length both
P and S rays are curved, with their concavity upward, although a
limited number of surfaces of discontinuity inside the earth exist at
which the rays are bent suddenly downward. Thus rays which start
off downward at the focus, but not too steeply, emerge at relatively
short distances from the epicenter, while the steeper rays emerge
at greater distances, even as far away as the antipodal point, or
anticenter.
a22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The P waves travel through solid parts of the earth about 1%
times as fast as S waves. In fluid regions, the S waves are not trans-
mitted. Thus the detection of S in addition to P waves in a part of
the earth is positive evidence of solidity (in a sense to be defined a
little later). Likewise, failure to detect S waves is negative evidence
of fluidity. Near the outer surface of the earth, P waves travel at
a speed of about 3 miles per second. The greatest speed, 814 miles
per second, is reached at a depth of 1,800 miles below the surface.

One of the great labors of seismologists over the first 40 years of
this century was to evolve, by successive approximation from crude
beginnings, seismic travel-time tables which give the travel times
along seismic rays in terms of the angular distances subtended by the
rays at the earth’s center. The accuracy of the Jeffreys-Bullen
tables, which are the ones used in compiling the International Seis-
mological Summary, is of the order of 1 or 2 seconds in travel times
of the order of 20 minutes, in the best instances. (Twenty minutes is
the time taken for a seismic P pulse to go straight through the earth
from one side to the other. )

REGIONS OF THE EARTH’S INTERIOR

From the travel-time tables, it is possible by a mathematical proc-
ess to estimate the speeds of P and S waves at points throughout a
large part of the earth’s interior. In the case of P waves, the speeds
are moderately well known throughout nearly the whole interior,
while for S waves this knowledge is available down to a depth of 1,800
miles. On the basis of the calculations, it has become possible to
divide the interior into a number of concentric regions. The bound-
aries between these regions are indicated by the levels at which the P
and § velocities, or their gradients with respect to depth, change
abruptly with increase of depth.

In continental regions, there is a fairly marked jump in the P and
S velocities some 25 miles below the surface. The first evidence for
this was obtained by the seismologist Mohorovitié in investigating
local features of a Balkan earthquake in 1909, though he thought
the change occurred rather deeper than 25 miles. Later work by
others showed the change of property to be worldwide, and the bound-
ary where the change occurs has come to be called the Mohorovicié
discontinuity. In oceanic regions, work to date indicates that the
depth of the discontinuity is of the order of only 5 miles below the
ocean floor. The region which lies above the discontinuity is some-
times called the earth’s crust, though it is well to realize that the
term has only a conventional meaning nowadays. For more than a
thousand miles below the crust, the earth is solid, with increasing ri-
gidity. Above the crust, the velocities of the P and S waves vary
rather erratically and can vary in the horizontal as well as the ver-
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN 323

tical direction. In contrast, the velocities below the crust depend
very largely on the depth alone, and the variation with depth is
much more steady.

An early triumph in seismology was the revelation that the earth
has a large core sharply separated from the part outside, called the
mantle. The existence of a central core had been suspected for the
last century, but was not established until Oldham supplied the nec-
essary evidence from seismology in 1906. In 1913, Gutenberg (then
in Gottingen, now of California) made a famous calculation which
gave the depth of the core boundary as 1,800 miles, a figure that Jef-
freys with the use of statistical theory showed in 1939 to be accu-
rate within 3 miles or so.

The discovery of the existence of the central core came about this
way. Consider P waves issuing from a large hypothetical earth-
quake with focus at the South Pole. Then it transpires that the
waves would be strongly recorded at all stations in the Southern Hem-
isphere, and, as well, in the Northern Hemisphere as far north as
latitude 15°, i.e., up to the latitude of Guatemala. But between the
latitudes of Guatemala (15° N.) and Winnipeg (52° N.), there would
be a “shadow zone” in which the regular P waves would be much
less prominent. Then at the latitude of Winnipeg, the P waves would
come in strongly again and be well recorded from there to the North
Pole. The whole of the United States would thus be inside the
shadow zone for the particular earthquake. Similar shadow zones
occur with all earthquakes large enough to be recorded on the opposite
side of the earth, the location of the shadow zone depending, of
course, on the location of the focus.

On examination it was seen that the only possible explanation of
the shadow is the presence of a central core. The regular P rays
which emerge at epicentral distances up to 105° lie entirely in the
mantle. Rays which emerge at 105° just graze the boundary of the
core. Slightly steeper P rays strike the boundary at an angle and
the shadow is produced through these rays being bent or “refracted”
sharply downward at the boundary, with the result that they do not
emerge at the surface until at distances beyond 142°. The phenom-
enon is similar to the refraction of light rays at the boundary which
separates a water surface from the air and which causes a straight
stick partly immersed in the water to be apparently bent at the
surface.

NoS waves have ever been detected in the earth’s central core. This
is part of the evidence that shows the central core, for most of its
volume, to be in a fluid or molten state. The complete evidence for
this conclusion includes measurements of tidal deformation of the
solid earth, and astronomical observations that enable movements of
the earth’s poles to be determined. These measurements, together
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

with seismic data on the earth’s mantle, make it possible, by a difficult
mathematical calculation, to set limits on the extent to which the
earth’s central core can deviate from the fiuid state. Recent important
calculations of the Japanese Takeuchi and the Russian Molodenski
indicate that the outer part (at least) of the central core is very close
to the fluid state.

On the other hand, both S and P waves are detected throughout the
whole of the mantle. This shows that, apart from the oceans and
isolated pockets of molten material near volcanoes, the earth is essen-
tially solid down to a depth of 1,800 miles.

It is well at this point that some indication should be given of the
terms “solid” and “fluid.” The elastic properties of an ordinary ma-
terial in a laboratory are specified by the values of two coefficients
which together describe how the material will be deformed under any
given applied stress. The two coefficients are commonly taken as the
“incompressibility,” which specifies the resistance of the material to
change of density under pressure, and the “rigidity,” which specifies
the resistance to distortion of shape. For ordinary materials, values
of the coefficients are determined by fairly direct laboratory measure-
ments. For materials of the earth’s deep interior the values are in-
ferred from observations of seismic waves themselves; seismology
shows that, in spite of the great pressures that occur, the stress-strain
relations for materials deep down in the earth have, to good approxi-
mation, the same mathematical form as for materials at ordinary
pressures.

Materials, both at the earth’s surface and in the deep interior, are
called solid when the coefficients which represent the incompressibility
and rigidity are both appreciable, and fluid when the rigidity is very
small compared with the incompressibility.

The seismic data show that the rigidity and the incompressibility
both increase steadily with depth throughout the mantle. Inside the
core, the rigidity falls to a small fraction of the mantle value while
the incompressibility maintains a high value.

It needs to be remarked that the discrimination here made between
solid and fluid relates only to the behavior under stresses of short du-
ration such as those involved in the transmission of seismic waves, 1.e.,
stresses that have periods of the order of a few seconds or so. A ma-
terial that is solid in the sense here defined might nevertheless be
subject to internal convection currents taking place over long periods
of time. Whether such convection currents or other long-sustained
forms of flow do take place in the earth’s mantle is a matter of current
controversy which the data of seismology cannot at present resolve.

So far, we have seen that seismic data enable us to make a broad
division of the earth into a solid mantle, including crust and subcrust,
and a central core which is largely fluid or molten.
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN 325

The behavior of P and S waves in the mantle reveals further that
there is some measure of inhomogeneity in the mantle below the crust.
In the outermost 700 miles of the subcrust the velocity gradients are
too great to be compatible with a uniform chemical and physical state.
The precise location of these changes is complicated by the fact that
the steep velocity gradients cause the travel-time curves to bend back
on themselves, and this makes for difficulty in identifying the cor-
responding pulses on seismograms. The evidence shows that these
changes of property may set in at a level as high as a hundred miles
below the surface, and that they are complete at a depth of 700 miles
or less. The changes may be due to variation in chemical composition
or to a physical change of state brought about by the considerable
pressure.

From a depth of 700 miles to within 100 miles or so of the core,
the P and S velocity gradients are very steady, and it is likely that
the chemical composition is nearly uniform in this part of the earth.
In the lowest 100 miles of the mantle the velocity gradients fall to
nearly zero and suggest some departure from uniformity.

Prior to 1936, the central core was thought to consist of nearly
homogeneous molten iron and nickel. Then in 1936, a Danish seis-
mologist, Miss I. Lehmann, looked more closely at records of two New
Zealand earthquakes in the “shadow zone.” It was already known
that the shadow zone is not a complete shadow—that there are rela-
tively small observations of P waves in the zone. Before 1936, these
observations had been attributed to various diffraction effects—to
deviations from the ray theory in waves refracted by the core bound-
ary. Similar diffraction effects are well known in the transmission
of light. Miss Lehmann proposed, as an alternative explanation, that
some of the waves observed in the shadow zone are really associated
with rays that have passed into an inner core, inside the central core,
the P velocity in the inner core being great enough to bend sharply
upward certain of the rays which penetrate into it.

Gutenberg and Richter showed that the travel-time data available
by 1938 fitted Miss Lehmann’s hypothesis, and in 1939 the existence
of the inner core came to be well established when Jeffreys showed
that the competing hypothesis of diffraction could not explain the
size of some of the observed waves in the shadow zone. Small though
the waves were, some of them were too large to be accounted for by
diffraction. Recently, Burke-Gaffney and I have been able, from a
study of several hydrogen-bomb explosions of 1954, to show the
separate existence both of Miss Lehmann’s waves, and of diffracted
waves, on the same seismograms; this adds a further link to the chain
of evidence for the existence of the central core.

Thus the earth is further divided into what, for want of a better
name, is called the outer core extending between depths of 1,800 and
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

nearly 3,200 miles, and the inner core occupying the remaining 800
miles to the earth’s center. As will be shown later it is probable that
the inner core is solid. In between these two parts of the central
core there may exist a transition region about 100 miles thick. Jeffreys
has found evidence of such a region, though not all seismologists as
yet support the finding. It is difficult at the present stage to draw
sharp conclusions on this part of the earth, and more evidence is
desirable.

The following table summarizes in broad terms the division of the
earth into regions according to the evidence from seismology.

TABLE 1.—Division of the earth into regions according to the evidence from seismology

Region Range of depth Description
A 0-10 miles (oceanic) _____ The earth’s ocean and “outer layers.’’
Tpke Tal 0-25 miles (continental) -_- Very variable in composition.

By Ge2t 28 25-700 miles+ Us! 2232 The upper mantle, in which there is
some variation of composition not yet
precisely located.

The lower mantle; D’ appears to be
|) Liaise aN OO—t 00 imilegias hee ae nearly uniform in composition; in
Oe Ss 2/01; F001 S00mmiles se Fat D’’ there is probably some accumula-

tion of somewhat denser material.

BAe See 1,800-3,100 miles_____--- The outer core. Fluid, and probably
uniform in composition.

12 pees eee 3,100-3,200 miles_______- Somewhat uncertain transition region
between outer and inner core.

(Ga kee bs Sea 3,200-3,960 miles____-_-- The inner core, probably solid.

DENSITY, PRESSURE, GRAVITY, AND ELASTICITY IN THE EARTH’S
DEEP INTERIOR

Toa good approximation, the velocities of seismic waves at any point
inside the earth depend on just three properties, namely the incom-
pressibility %, the rigidity », and the density p. The previous section
shows that values of the P and S velocities are known down to the base
of the layer E. (Inside EH, the S velocity is taken to be zero because
of the evidence for fluidity.) This knowledge supplies two equations
connecting the three items /, », and p. If only a third independent
source of information were available, it would be a matter of simple
algebra to calculate the values of all three of /, », and p down to a
depth of more than 3,000 miles, and so obtain good knowledge of the
variation of density and elasticity in the earth.

In practice, no such third source of information is directly avail-
able, and the problem has to be attacked indirectly. Use is made first
of the fact that in parts of the earth where the composition is uniform,
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN S20

the density changes due to increasing pressure are related to the in-
compressibility, so that seismic data can be further brought to bear
to determine density gradients in these parts of the earth. Second,
restrictions on the possible density variations are provided from
knowledge of the mass and moment of inertia of the earth. (The
moment of inertia, which contains information on the degree of central
condensation of matter in the earth, is found from the dynamics of
the earth-moon system in conjunction with measurements of the shape
of the earth.) Third, by matching P and S velocities in the outer part
cf the earth against the results of laboratory experiments on rocks,
an estimate can be made of the density just below the crust.

Calculations that I carried out some years ago on these lines gave
density values ranging from 3.3 gm/cm? just below the crust to about
514 gm/cm® at the bottom of the mantle. The value jumps suddenly
to 914 gm/cm® at the top of the outer core, and is between 11 and 12
gm/cm? at the bottom of the outer core. At the earth’s center, the
density probably lies between 1414 and 18 gm/cm*. The uncertainty
on the central value cannot be resolved until more is known about the
character of the transition region F.

This work also enabled a number of other properties of the deep in-
terior to be deduced. Atmospheric pressure at sea level is referred to
as 1 atmosphere (15 pounds weight per square inch). In a steam
locomotive the pressure may be about 30 atmospheres. At the bottom
of the Pacific Ocean, the pressure can reach 800 atmospheres. In
special high-pressure laboratories, values between 100,000 and 300,000
atmospheres have been reached. Inside the earth, however, the
pressures become still greater. At the bottom of the mantle, the im-
mense value of 114 million atmospheres is reached, while at the earth’s
center the figure lies between 314 and 4 million atmospheres.

Another section of the results relates to the acceleration g due to
gravity in the earth. It is remarkable that, down to a depth of 1,500
miles, g keeps within 2 percent of its surface value of 32 ft./sec’. ‘The
maximum value, 34 ft./sec’, is reached at the bottom of the mantle.
Inside the core the value of g steadily diminishes, becoming zero at the
center.

The calculations showed further that the rigidity steadily increases
with depth throughout the entire mantle until at the bottom the value
is about four times that for steel at atmospheric pressure. The value
then drops suddenly across the core boundary, and remains close to
zero throughout the outer core, in keeping with the evidence that the
outer core is fluid or molten.

But perhaps the most important fruits in this series of calculations
were the results for the incompressibility &. Whereas the outer core
boundary is characterized by sudden large changes in the values of

49252059 22
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the density and rigidity, the figures for % showed a change of only
5 percent, a change which, moreover, is inside the margin of uncer-
tainty on which the calculations rest. Further, the gradient of &
with respect to pressure was not detectably different on the two sides
of the boundary.

This led me to suggest that, for the materials of the earth’s deep
interior, % changes fairly smoothly with the increasing pressure
everywhere between a depth of 700 miles and the earth’s center, a
suggestion that has since received support from theoretical work on
the variation of & with pressure beyond 10 million atmospheres.

This hypothesis of the smooth variation of % in the earth’s central
core led me further to the inference that the inner core is solid in the
sense earlier defined, this being the natural interpretation of the jump
in the P velocity which Miss Lehmann found between the outer and
inner core. The seismic wave velocity equations show that either &
or the rigidity » must jump to account for the jump in the P velocity,
and the available evidence all points to the conclusion that the jump
isin p. The jump is from zero rigidity in the outer core to a rigidity
in the inner core two to four times that of steel.

It would be desirable to have the solidity of the inner core tested
by direct detection of S waves in the inner core. The difficulty here
is to excite S waves in the inner core from waves incident through
the outer core from above; the latter waves, because of the fluidity
of the outer core, must necessarily be P waves. A calculation that
IT have made on the expected amplitudes of S waves in the inner
core shows that they are at best on the border of observability with
present seismic resolving power, even with the mightiest earthquakes.
The problem is illustrated by the fact that when atom bombs have
been exploded underwater, and thus in a fluid region analogous to
the earth’s molten outer core, detectable S waves are only rarely ex-
cited in the mantle below the ocean even when P waves are quite well
observed.

These various details show that, while much remains to be done,
seismology has already given a good insight into the principal me-
chanical properties of the earth’s interior.

THE EARTH’S COMPOSITION

In now venturing a few remarks on the earth’s composition, I need
to say that this subject is much more conjectural than the subject
of the earth’s mechanical properties. The numerical results that
emerge from seismology lead, however, to a few interesting sugges-
tions on composition, even though much uncertainty remains.

Ideas on the composition of the mantle come from matching
numerical values of the density, the incompressibility, and their
gradients with respect to pressure, against results derived in high-
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN 329

pressure experiments on rocks made by Adams, Williamson, Bridg-
man, Birch, and others. This work indicates that the outer mantle
probably consists of ultrabasic rock, an olivine composition being
commonly assumed; other possibilities that have been considered are
that the rocks are eclogite or peridotite. Birch has suggested that
the lower mantle may consist of phases including silica, magnesia, and
iron oxide. It is possible that an appreciable quantity of free iron
also occurs in the mantle. It is not yet certain whether the changes
in the outer mantle are essentially progressive composition changes
or are due to change of crystal type or other physical transformation.
There is as yet no widely accepted explanation of the character of the
changes inside the lowest 100 miles of the mantle.

The question of the composition of the central core has lately be-
come interesting. Until a few years ago, it was widely accepted
that the whole core consists predominantly of iron and nickel. This
conclusion was based on observations of meteorite composition, and
on the known relatively high density in the core.

Then in 1941 two European geophysicists put forward the radically
different theory that the core consists of compressed hydrogen. Over-
whelming arguments against this theory were quickly stated, but the
theory led to an important calculation in 1946 which showed that, at
700,000 atmospheres (a pressure reached inside the earth’s lower
mantle), the density of hydrogen would suddenly jump from about
0.4 to 0.8 gm/cm’. This led to the idea, first advanced by W. H.
Ramsey of Great Britain, that perhaps at the huge pressure of 114
million atmospheres reached at the outer core boundary, the material
there existing might suddenly jump in density from 514 to 914
gm/cm?® as a direct consequence of the high pressure and not as a
change of composition from rock to iron. Such modification of the
rock (or other material) of the lower mantle would incidentally have
all the physical properties of a metal and be electrically conducting.
Thus theories which attribute the earth’s magnetism to currents in
the outer core would not be affected.

An interesting point is that, on the new theory, the density in the
earth’s interior would be largely determined by pressure alone, which
would not be the case if the mantle and core were of distinct chemical
composition. Hence, knowing the pressure-density relation for the
earth, it becomes possible on the new theory, given the mass of a
planet of identical composition, to compute its diameter. Starting
from the known masses of Venus and Mars, calculations made in this
way give in fact fair agreement with the observed diameters of the
two planets, and also with the observed ellipticity of figure of Mars.
In contrast, Jeffreys has shown that Venus, the Earth, and Mars must
have considerably different over-all compositions if the earth’s mantle
and core are chemically distinct. Hence the Ramsey theory is closely
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

linked with the question of a common composition of the three planets.
The planet Mercury in its present state has too high a mean density
to fit this common composition, but there is a possibility that the
present Mercury through its proximity to the sun and consequent
temperature may be appreciably denser than the primitive Mercury.

The question of the composition of the outer core continues to be
controversial, and as yet it has not been possible to devise a crucial
experimental or theoretical test to discriminate between the old and
the new theories.

Although the regions E and F of the earth may not be composed
predominantly of iron and nickel, several arguments all show that
these two metals must predominate in the inner core. The course of
the P velocity variations further suggests that there is some progres-
sive change of composition inside the inner core, perhaps due to the
presence of some additional denser materials.

EARTHQUAKES AND NUCLEAR EXPLOSIONS

Atom and hydrogen bombs resemble earthquakes in that they can
send seismic waves down into the earth’s interior. Although, as
pointed out earlier in this article, the available energy in them is less
than that in the waves produced by large natural earthquakes, there
is a great compensating advantage to seismic research in that the
source and location of artificial explosions can be known in advance.

In spite of the knowledge so far gained from natural earthquakes,
we are much troubled in our inferences from this data because of our
initial total ignorance of conditions at the source. On the other hand,
a nuclear explosion can in effect be regarded as a “controlled earth-
quake” in which the time and place of origin can be precisely known,
so that there is the possibility of inferring the internal structure of the
earth much more accurately. For this reason, seismologists have been
greatly interested in the possibility of using nuclear explosions to
help them in their studies. Chemical explosions have already been
employed with much success in unraveling the structure of the earth’s
crust. But larger sources are needed to send waves deep into the
interior.

The very first atom bomb, exploded in New Mexico in 1945, was
seismically recorded. A noteworthy feature of that explosion is that,
whereas the origin time recorded at the source was uncertain by 15
seconds, the origin time is known to within 2 seconds from seismic
records.

There was no mistake at the source in recording the Bikini under-
water explosion of July 1946. The origin time of that explosion was
officially released to two decimal places of a second! The resulting
seismic waves were recorded at eight observatories in the United
States at epicentral distances as great as 5,000 miles. Even though so
EARTHQUAKES—BULLEN 331

few observatories recorded the waves, the results are seismically valu-
able, and have supplied important corrections to the travel-time tables.

From 1947 until 1957 there was no general release of source data
on nuclear explosions in any country, although in some cases individual
seismologists have been given access to data. For example, Dr. B.
Gutenberg and Dr. D. S. Carder have been able to make important
inferences from records of a number of explosions carried out by the
United States. In Australia, a group of seismologists was given ad-
vance knowledge, and subsequently the relevant source data, on four
nuclear tests carried out in central Australia. This information has
been invaluable in leading to our first reliable knowledge of the
broad structure down to a depth of 30 miles or so in a part of Australia.

The United States hydrogen-bomb explosions of 1954 have proved to
be of great interest, and have been the subject of special studies by
T. N. Burke-Gaffney, Director of the Riverview Observatory (Syd-
ney), and myself.

About the middle of March 1954 news that a hydrogen bomb had
been exploded was made public. Following this, information from
Japanese fishermen indicated that the explosion had taken place near
Bikini Atoll slightly before dawn on March 1, local time. This news
made it feasible for a search to be made on a sufficiently limited stretch
of the Riverview seismograms, and it transpired that there was indeed
an isolated sharp movement near the expected time. The routine
summary of seismic wave onsets recorded at Brisbane, 600 miles from
Sydney, also reported a sharp movement in agreement with the River-
view reading.

This was enough to warrant an inspection of overseas seismological
bulletins as they came in. It soon became evident that seismic waves
from four of the 1954 hydrogen-bomb explosions had been distinctly
recorded in at least 12 countries. Strangely enough, several of the
observatories concerned had not realized that certain of their routine
readings related to these explosions.

When all the data were put together, we diagnosed what we felt to
be the pattern of the explosions, and made estimates of the origin
times. A recent release by the United States Atomic Energy Com-
mission shows that our estimates were correct within 0.0, 0.1, 0.4, and
0.7 second, respectively. The results have proved to have been of
importance to geophysics in shedding further light on the earth’s
inner core, and have supplied additional useful corrections to the
travel-time tables.

Further work on hydrogen-bomb explosions has been carried out by
Gutenberg, Carder, Burke-Gaffney, and Rothé.

Last September there was an interesting development following my
presidential address to the International Association of Seismology
and the Physics of the Earth’s Interior on the subject of “Seismology
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

in Our Atomic Age.” Three days later a cable from Dr. W. F. Libby
of the United States Atomic Energy Commission gave advance source
details of an underground explosion that was carried out in Nevada
on September 19. This advance news greatly excited the seismologists
gathered at Toronto who made hurried endeavors to have the seismic
waves from the explosion as well recorded as possible.

Actually, the waves that went into the ground from the explosion
turned out to be relatively small, and, generally speaking, were re-
corded only in Western United States at distances up to about 700
miles. There were, however, recordings by special field instruments
which had been set up for the purpose in Mexico at a distance of 1,400
miles, and by a very sensitive seismograph in Alaska, 2,300 miles away.
Doubt remains as to whether the more distant recordings would have
been identified as waves from a nuclear explosion if the source data
had not been released. From the seismic point of view, the explosion
was principally useful in supplying further information on crustal
structure in Western United States.

Seismologists hope that in due course it will be possible to utilize
nuclear explosions to sharpen many of their inferences on the earth’s
interior. At the same time, seismologists appreciate that all such
controlled experiments that are carried out at their instigation must
be subject to total scrutiny on the score of human welfare, genetical
and otherwise.

Earthquakes and atom bombs both have great potentialities as de-
structive agents. But both can, nevertheless, be turned to great
advantage in enabling us to understand the properties of our planet
earth.

REFERENCES

Bates, D. R. (Editor).

1957. The planet earth. London. (Includes discussions, written for the

lay reader, on various aspects of the earth’s interior.)
BULLEN, K. E.

1953. Introduction to the theory of seismology. 2d ed. Cambridge Uni-
versity Press. (Contains a mathematical discussion of seismic
waves in relation to the earth’s interior. )

1954. Seismology. London. (A briefer and less advaneed account of
seismic waves and the earth’s interior.)

JEFFREYS, Sir H.

1950. Earthquakes and mountains. London. (An account written for the
layman.)

1952. The earth. 3d ed. Cambridge University Press. (An advanced ac-
count of the problems of the earth’s interior.)
The Darwin- Wallace Centenary '

By Sir GAVIN DE BEER
Director, British Museum (Natural History)

FROM SPECIAL CREATION TO TRANSFORMISM

ONLY ONE HUNDRED YEARS have gone by since the concept of evolu-
tion was brought to the attention of thinking men in a manner which
has compelled its acceptance. The demonstration that the members
of the plant and animal kingdoms are as they are because they have
become what they are, and that change, not immutability, is the rule
of living things, is one of the most important contributions ever made
to knowledge, and its effects have been felt in every field of human
thought.

That plants and animals constitute natural kinds, or species, had
become clear by the end of the seventeenth century, when John Ray
defined them as groups of individuals that breed among themselves.
In general, species were accepted as being the result of special creation
in each case, and there was little incentive to inquire further.

In the eighteenth century doubts began to arise concerning the
immutability of species. Some philosophers arguing theoretically,
and a small number of naturalists who encountered difficulty in dis-
tinguishing between varieties of cultivated plants and of domestic
animals, which were recognized as the diversified products of species,
found difficulty in accepting the view that species were unchangeable.
Some naturalists, including Linnaeus himself in his later years,
adopted a compromise, allowing that species could have descended
with modification from genera, but that genera were immutable.

With the increase in detailed knowledge of the flora and fauna of
the world consequent upon the final stages of exploration, the problem
of the distinction between varieties and species became acute. With
boldness, and a breadth of vision amounting to genius, the French
naturalist Lamarck cut the knot by proclaiming that there was no
essential difference between species and varieties, that both species
anid varieties were subject to change, and that “transformism,” not

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 17, No. 66, April 1958.

333
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

immutability of species, was the basis of life. As it happened, there
were two reasons why Lamarck’s ideas were unacceptable. The first
was that he undertook no analysis to provide evidence for his notion
of evolution: it flashed across his mind, and he assumed its truth
without taking the trouble to prove it. Secondly, he attempted to give
an explanation of the causes of evolution which, unfortunately, raised
opposition to the acceptance of the concept of evolution itself. He
supposed that as a result of new needs experienced by the animal, its
“inner feelings” or subconscious activities produced new organs which
satisfied those needs. Not only was such a supposition unacceptable
for the solution of the preblem of the origin of species of animals,
but it was totally inapplicable to plants. On the other hand, Lamarck
elaborated a view which for a long time was accepted but which is
now known to be without foundation, namely that the effects of use
and disuse were transmitted by inheritance. There for a time the
matter rested.
THE FACT OF EVOLUTION

When Darwin started on the voyage of the Beagle in 1831, he had
no reason to doubt the immutability of species. The speculations of
his grandfather Erasmus counted for nothing with him, because they
were not supported by evidence. Those of Lamarck on the causes of
evolution had the additional demerit of bringing the subject into
disrepute by their fanciful nature. It must be added that in Lyell’s
“Principles of Geology,” to which Darwin owed so much because of
the general background of uniformitarianism in place of catastro-
phism that it advocated, the possibility of evolution was firmly rejected.

Three sets of observations started Darwin’s revolt against the im-
mutability of species. The first was occasioned by his studies of the
fauna of the Galapagos Islands, where he found that species of
finches differed slightly from island to island, while showing gen-
eral resemblances not only to each other but to the finches on the
adjacent mainland of South America. If these species had been
separately created, why should there have been such a prodigal expend-
iture of “creation” just there; why should geographical propinquity
have caused these “creations” to resemble each other so closely; why,
in spite of the similarity in physical conditions between the islands
of the Galdpagos Archipelago and the Cape Verde Islands, are their
faunas totally different, the former resembling that of South America
while the fauna of the latter resembles that of Africa ?

The second set of observations related to the fact that as he traveled
over South America he noticed that the species occupying a particular
niche in some regions were replaced in neighboring regions by other
species that were different, yet closely similar. Why are the rabbitlike
animals on the savannahs of La Plata built on the plan of the peculiar
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY— DE BEER 335

South American type of rodent and not on that of North America or
the Old World?

The third set of observations was concerned with the fact that in
the pampas he found fossil remains of large mammals covered with
armor like that of the armadillos now living on that continent. Why
were these extinct animals built on the same plan as those now living?

On the view that species were immutable and had not changed since
they were severally created, there was no rational answer to any of
these questions, which would have had to remain as unfathomable
mysteries. On the other hand, if species, like varieties, were subject
to modification during descent and to divergence into different lines
of descent, all these questions could be satisfactorily and simply an-
swered. The finches of the Gal&pagos resemble each other and those
of South America because they are descended from a common ancestor ;
they differ from one another because they are each adapted to modes
of life restricted to their own particular island, one, for instance, feed-
ing on seeds on the ground and another on insects in trees. The vol-
canic nature and physical conditions of the Galapagos Isiands re-
semble those of the Cape Verde Islands, and yet the Galapagos birds
all differ from the birds of the Cape Verde Islands: therefore it is
not the physical conditions of the islands that determine their differ-
ences. These differences arose because the Cape Verde Islands birds
share a common ancestor with the birds of Africa, whereas the Gala-
pagos birds share a common ancestor with those of South America.
The hares of South America are built on the South American rodent
plan because all South American rodents are descended from a com-
mon ancestor. The fossil Glyptcdon resembles the living armadillos
because they also share a common ancestor; this case is particularly
important because, if living species show affinity with extinct species,
there is no necessity to believe that extinct types of animals have left
no living descendants. They may have representatives alive today,
and this means that the whole wealth of the paleontological record
of fossils is available as material for the study of the problem of
evolution.

In possession of a working hypothesis that species have undergone
evolution and successive origination by descent, with modification,
from ancestral species shared in common with other species, Darwin
next proceeded to search the whole field of botanical and zoological
knowledge for evidence bearing on his hypothesis. He realized that
no general principle that explained the evolution of animals was ac-
ceptable unless it also applied to plants. The result was one of the
most remarkable attacks on a problem ever made by the inductive
method of searching for facts, whatever their import might be.

In the first place, in cultivated plants and domestic animals such
as the dahlia, the potato, the pigeon, and the rabbit, a large number
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

of varieties have in each case been produced from a single original
stock. Descent with modification and divergence into several lines
is therefore certainly possible within the species.

Comparative anatomy reveals the existence of similar plans of
structure in large groups of organisms. Plants may have vegetative
leaves, and in some cases these are modified into parts of flowers.
Vertebrate animals have forelimbs that may be used for walking, run-
ning, swimming, or flying, but in which the various parts of the skele-
ton correspond, bone for bone, from the upper arm to the last joints
of the fingers, whether the animal is a frog, a lizard, a turtle, a bird,
a rabbit, a seal, a bat, or a man. This is what is meant by saying
that such structures are homologous, and these correspondences are
inexplicable unless the animals are descended from a common ancestor.
Fundamental resemblance is therefore evidence of genetic affinity.

The study of comparative behavior proves that related forms show
gradations in their instincts, such as shamming death in insects and
nest building in birds. At the same time, related species inhabiting
different parts of the earth under very different conditions retain simi-
lar instincts. Examples are the habit of thrushes in England and in
South America of lining nests with mud, and that of wrens in England
and North America of the males building “cock nests.” Why should
this be, unless the different species of thrushes and wrens are descended
from common ancestors in each case?

Embryology reveals remarkable similarity in structure between
young embryos of animals which in the adult stage are as different as
fish, lizard, fowl, and man. This similarity even extends to such de-
tails as the manner in which the blood vessels run from the heart to
the dorsal aorta, a plan which is of obvious significance in the case
of the fish that breathes by means of gills, but not so obvious in that
of lizard, chick, or man, where gill pouches are formed in the embryo
but soon become transformed into different structures, and breathing
is carried out by other means. This similarity between embryos is ex-
plained by the affinity and descent from a common ancestor of the
groups to which they belong.

Embryology also provides evidence of vestiges of structures which
once performed important functions in the ancestors but now either
perform different functions or none at all. Examples of such organs
are the teeth of whalebone whales, the limbs of snakes, the wings of
ostriches and penguins, and the flowers of the feather-hyacinth. Since
Darwin’s time countless other examples have been discovered. The
most striking of these are the pineal gland which is a vestigial eye, and
vestiges of the egg tooth still found in marsupials, although it is 75
million years since their ancestors had to use an egg tooth to crack
the shell and hatch out of their eggs. Here again, descent from com-
mon ancestral forms explains all these cases.
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—bpdE BEER 337

Knowledge of the fossil record in Darwin’s time was so imperfect
that nothing was then available in the way of series illustrating the
course of evolution. Nevertheless, he noticed that in Tertiary strata
the lower the horizon the fewer fossils there were belonging to species
alive today. Paleontology therefore showed that new species had
appeared and old species become extinct, not all at the same time, but
in succession and gradually. Why should this be so unless new species
have come into existence from time to time by descent with modifica-
tion from other species ?

Plants and animals are classified according to their resemblance,
and they are placed in one or another of a not very large number of
groups, such as ferns, conifers, mollusks, or mammals. But within
each of these groups there is subdivision into other smaller groups,
mammals being so subdivided into rodents, carnivores, ungulates, and
primates for example. Within these again there is further subdivision,
and the important point to notice is that classification always places
species in groups that are contained within other larger groups. This
is such a commonplace that its significance is often overlooked. Why
do organisms have to be classified like this? Why are they not strewn
in single file up the ladder of the plant and animal kingdoms, or
fortuitously like pebbles on a beach, or arbitrarily like the stars in
imaginary constellations? The reason is that the arrangement of
groups within groups is a natural classification reflecting the course
of evolution. It is the result of descent from common ancestors and
an indication of affinity; the differences between the groups are due
to modification and divergence during such descent.

Darwin also investigated the problem of interspecific sterility and
saw that it was by no means absolute, because numerous examples can
be found of different species that produce hybrids, and in some cases
these hybrids are themselves fertile. From the point of view of breed-
ing, therefore, such species behave like varieties. Why, then, can
species not have originated as varieties, by descent and modification
from other species ?

From the evidence provided by all these sources Darwin built up
an irrefutable argument that species have changed and originated
from other species and that evolution has occurred. That he should
have been able to do so from such few data is a mark of genius, for
at the time when he worked out his conclusions, none of the cases had
been discovered which would now be used as the most striking examples
with which to illustrate the fact and the course of evolution. Chief
among these are the beautiful series of fossils which reveal the evolu-
tion of the ammonites or of the horses, step by step, and those which
represent the precursors of the various classes and groups of verte-
brates such as Archaeopteryx or Pithecanthropus.
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The main steps in Darwin’s proof of the fact of evolution were
established by 1842, when he committed them to paper in the form
of a Sketch which he expanded into an Essay in 1844, though neither
was published by him. Soon after this, another naturalist, Alfred
Russel Wallace, was led to explore similar lines of research. From
some simple observations on the distribution of organisms, both geo-
graphically over the world and geologically in the fossil record,
Wallace drew some equally simple conclusions that are of great im-
portance in the history of thought that led to the realization of
evolution. They show that, independently of Darwin and in com-
plete ignorance of his work, Wallace had hit upon the same solution
of the problem of the mutability of species.

Wallace’s observations were based on the facts, first, that large
systematic groups such as classes and orders are usually distributed
over the whole of the earth, whereas groups of low systematic value
such as families, genera, and species frequently have a very small
localized distribution. Second, “when a group is confined to one dis-
trict, and is rich in species, it is almost invariably the case that the
most closely allied species are found in the same locality or in closely
adjoining localities, and that therefore the natural sequence of the
species by aflinity is also geographical.” Third, in the fossil record
large groups extend through several geological formations, and “no
group or species has come into existence twice.”

The conclusion which Wallace drew from these observations was
that “Every species has come into existence coincident both in space
and time with a pre-existing closely allied species.” Thought out
about 1845, written at Sarawak in 1855, and published in the same
year, Wallace’s theory already allowed him to say that “the natural
series of affinities will also represent the order in which the several
species came into existence, each one having had for its immediate
antitype a closely allied species existing at the time of its origin. It
is evidently possible that two or three distinct species may have had
a common antitype, and that each of these may again have become
the antitype from which other closely allied species were created.”

With the help of this principle, in which it is only necessary to
substitute “ancestor” for “antitype” for the formulation of evolution
to be complete, Wallace showed that it was possible to give a simple
explanation of natural classification, of the geographical distribu-
tion of plants and animals, including those of the Gal4pagos Islands,
of the succession of forms in the fossil record, and of rudimentary
organs which would be inexplicable “if each species had been created
independently, and without any necessary relations with preexisting
Species.”
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—pDE BEER 339

So much of the credit for the establishment of the fact of evolution
has, rightly, been accorded to Darwin that it is only just that Wal-
lace’s contribution to this problem should be recognized and honored.

The evidence on which Darwin and Wallace based their demonstra-
tion that evolution was a fact is not only valid to this day, but has
been confirmed in all the branches of science concerned as well as
in many new fields. There was in their day not even an inkling of
the possibilities of research opened up by comparative physiology
and biochemistry, or of serology as a quantitative indicator of the
amount of divergence that has taken place between related forms.
Why should the chemical substance involved in the mechanism of
muscular contraction in most invertebrates be arginine, whereas it
is creatine in vertebrates and echinoderms, which on independent evi-
dence are regarded as related? Why should serum immunized
against man give precipitations of 64 percent when mixed with blood
of a gorilla, but 42 percent with that of an orangutan, 29 percent with
that of a baboon, and only 10 percent with that of an ox? Why
should syphilis attack the chimpanzee more seriously than the orang-
utan, and the latter more seriously than the baboon? Why should
the human ABO blood-group system also be found in the apes? The
answer to all these questions is that the organisms concerned have
undergone evolution from common ancestors, as a result of which
members of the various lines of descent share not only structural, men-
tal, and genetical characters, but also physiological and biochemical
mechanisms and immunological reactions.

THE MECHANISM OF NATURAL SELECTION

Although Darwin already knew in 1837 that evolution was an in-
escapable conclusion to be drawn from the evidence, he did not allow
himself to proceed any further with his discovery until he had found
an explanation of the fact of adaptation. In a general way, all plants
and animals are adapted to their environment, for otherwise they
could not live. A man drowns in the sea; a fish dies out of water.
But there are some structures which show a particularly intimate
relationship between the organism and its conditions of life. Mistletoe
is a parasite that requires a tree of certain species to live on, a par-
ticular insect to pollinate its flowers, and a thrush to eat its berries
and deposit its seeds on branches of the same species of tree. A wood-
pecker has two of its toes turned backward with which it grips the
bark of tree; it has stiff tail feathers with which it props itself against
the tree; it has a very stout beak with which it bores holes in the tree
trunk; and it has an abnormally long tongue with which it takes the
grubs at the bottom of the holes. Other plants than mistletoe and
other birds than woodpeckers do not have all these adaptations, and
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

therefore, if evolution has occurred, it is necessary to give an objective

explanation of how these adaptations arose.

Darwin knew that all members of a species are not identical but
show variation in size, strength, health, fertility, longevity, instincts,
habits, mental attributes, and countless other characters. He soon
perceived that such variation could be, and in fact was, turned to good
account by man in the course of artificial selection, which he has
practiced in the production of cultivated plants and domestic animals
since the New Stone Age. The key was selection, the practice of
breeding only from those parents that possess the desired qualities.
But how could selection have operated on wild plants and animals
in nature since the beginning of life on earth without man or a con-
scious being to direct it? The solution of this puzzle occurred to
Darwin accidentally when he read Malthus’s “Essay on the Principles
of Population” and realized that under the conditions of competition
in which plants and animals live, any variations would be preserved
which increased the organisms’ ability to leave fertile offspring, while
those variations which decreased it would be eliminated. In a state of
nature, selection works automatically, which is why Darwin called it
natural selection.

Darwin was then able to formulate a complete theory providing
a rational explanation of the causes as well as of the fact of evolution
in plants and animals. It is formally based on four propositions
which he already knew to be true, and three deductions which are
now also known to be true. They may be enumerated as follows:
1. Organisms produce a far greater number of reproductive cells than

ever give rise to mature individuals.

2. The numbers of individuals in species remain more or less constant.

3. Therefore there must be a high rate of mortality.

4. The individuals in a species are not all identical, but show variation
in all characters.

5. Therefore some variants will succeed better and others less well
in the competition for survival, and the parents of the next gener-
ation will be naturally selected from among those members of
the species that show variation in the direction of more effective
adaptation to the conditions of their environment.

6. Hereditary resemblance between parent and offspring is a fact.

7. Therefore subsequent generations will by gradual change maintain
and improve on the degree of adaptation realized by their
parents.

This is the formal theory of evolution by natural selection, first
announced jointly on July 1, 1958, by Darwin and Alfred Russel
Wallace, who had, again independently, come to the identical con-
clusion. It represents a step in knowledge comparable to Newton’s
discovery of the law of gravitation.
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—DE BEER 341

THE INTEGRATION OF MENDELIAN GENETICS WITH SELECTION

When Darwin wrote, nothing whatever was known about the laws
of heredity, and all that he had to go on was the vague notion that
offspring tended to strike an average between the characters of their
parents. This supposition went by the name of “blending inherit-
ance,” and it occasioned for Darwin the greatest difficulty with which
he had to contend in formulating his theory. In the first place, if
blending inheritance were true, it would mean that any new variation
which appeared, even if heritable, would be rapidly diluted by
“swamping,” and in about 10 generations would have been obliterated.
To compensate for this it would be necessary to suppose that new
variations were extremely frequent. Since whole brothers, sons of
the same father and mother, share an identical heredity, any differ-
ence between them would have to be due to new variation that had
arisen during their own early lives, and variation would have to
affect practically all members of a species. This problem of the
supply of variation was a difficulty which Darwin felt so acutely
that it even led him to look for a source of this supply in the supposed
hereditary effects of use and disuse.

This reliance on the effects of use and disuse as a source of varia-
tion, without any effect on his main argument, is the only part of
Darwin’s demonstration that has had to be abandoned, and he would
have welcomed the reasons for it. If only Darwin had realized it,
the solution to all these difficulties was at that very time being provided
by Gregor Mendel, but his results were unknown until 1900, eighteen
years after Darwin’s death.

The Mendelian theory of the gene was worked out by T. H. Morgan
and his colleagues with an unprecedented wealth of experimental
evidence from the breeding pen and from cytological studies on the
structure of the cell and its chromosomes. It has established, as
firmly as Newton’s laws of motion or the atomic theory, that hereditary
resemblances are determined by discrete particles, the genes, situ-
ated in the chromosomes of the cells, which are transmitted to offspring
in accordance with the mechanism of germ-cell formation and fer-
tilization, and conform to distributional patterns known as Mendelian
inheritance. The researches of C. D. Darlington and others on the
structure and behavior of the chromosomes have reached such a degree
of refinement and precision that each step in the mechanism of
Mendelian inheritance can actually be seen under the microscope.

The genes preserve their separate identity; they collaborate in the
production of the characters of the individual that possesses them,
but they never contaminate each other; they remain constant for long
periods, but from time to time they undergo a change, known as muta-
tion, which involves a change in the characters which they control;
after this they remain constant in their new condition until they mu-
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

tate again. It has been conclusively proved that the theory of the
gene applies to all plants and all animals investigated, and that the
mutation of genes is the only known way in which heritable variation
arises. 'The modifications resulting from good or bad food supply, or
from the climatic conditions in which plants and animals live, are not
inherited and are therefore without significance in evolution.

The history of the reception of Mendelian genetics after its dis-
covery has been peculiar. The earliest mutations discovered, often
called “sports,” were usually deleterious and showed marked and dis-
continuous steps instead of the gradual and continuous variation
which Darwinian selectionists looked for as the raw material of
evolution. Selectionists therefore rejected Mendelian genetics as the
source of variation. On the other hand, the Mendelian geneticists,
knowing that their mutations were the only source of heritable varia-
tion, thought that as they showed wide discontinuous steps and arose
suddenly, readymade and apparently without long-continued selec-
tion, selection was inoperative in evolution, and they rejected it.

With the progress of knowledge it gradually became obvious that
each of these two schools of research objected to the other for reasons
which were baseless. As more and more genes were identified and
their effects studied, it became clear that the wide and discontinuous
mutations first cbserved were the more easily detected extremes of a
range in which the majority exert only slight effects. For the same
reason, these mutations were deleterious because organisms are
delicately adjusted systems, more likely to be upset by large and
discontinuous changes than by small and gradual steps.

The Mendelian geneticists also had to learn two lessons. On the
one hand they discovered that although individual genes are associated
with particular characters, their control of those characters is also
affected by all the other genes, which constitute an organized gene
complex. As a result of previous mutations, gene complexes of
plants and animals in nature contain many genes, and these are sorted
out and recombined at fertilization in astronomically numerous pos-
sibilities of permutations. These recombinations have been shown to
bring about gradual and continuous changes in the characters under
the major control of individual genes. Sir Ronald Fisher demon-
strated the significance of this by showing that a mutant gene that now
exhibits the quality known as dominance has gradually become domi-
nant from a previous intermediate condition. This is what has hap-
pened to those mutations that confer a benefit on their possessors, and
in their case there has been a selection of gene complexes in favor of
those which accentuate the effects of a favorable mutant, so that these
effects are manifested even if the mutant gene is inherited from only
one parent, which is the definition of dominance. Conversely, with
genes that place a handicap on their possessors, there has been a selec-
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—prz BEER 343

tion of gene complexes in favor of those which suppress the effects of
such genes so that they are manifested only when the mutant gene is
inherited from both parents, which is the definition of recessiveness.
They may be suppressed even further, as when the effects of such a
gene are obliterated and the gene becomes what is known as a “modi-
fier,” without major control over characters. It has even been
demonstrated by E. B. Ford, under rigorous experimental conditions,
that one and the same mutant gene can be made to become dominant
in one strain and recessive in another, simply by selecting as parents
those individuals whose gene complexes accentuate or diminish the
effects of the gene.

The second lesson that Mendelian geneticists had to learn was that
although the effects of the mutations which they first observed ap-
peared to be clear-cut, they were already the results of past gene
complexes. For these mutations have occurred before, and the gene
complexes have become adjusted to them. The fact that a single gene
may now act as a switch controlling the production of one or another
character difference does not mean that this character difference orig-
inally arose at one stroke by one mutation of such a switch gene, be-
cause it has probably been built up gradually as a result of past selec-
tion in the gene complex.

It is therefore clear that mutations and recombinations of genes
provide the supply of variation on which selection acts to cause
evolution exactly in the way Darwin’s theory requires. Its require-
ments are exacting, for, as T. H. Huxley pointed out, some organisms
have evolved slowly and others have evolved fast; he saw that natural
selection was the only mechanism that could satisfy both those re-
quirements. It is able to do so because Mendelian inheritance is
capable of producing both diversity and stability. As Ford has
said, an immense range of types must be available for natural selection
to act upon, and this is provided by mutation and recombination of
genes. Yet when a favorable gene complex has been achieved it
must not be dissipated and broken down, and this is provided against
by the facts that the genes do not blend or contaminate one another,
and that they mutate only rarely.

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PARTICULATE INHERITANCE IN EVOLUTION

The particulate theory of inheritance which Mendelian genetics
has established involves a number of consequences of fundamental
importance for the problem of evolution. In the first place, the sub-
stitution of this quantitative and deterministic science for the vague
and baseless notion of “blending inheritance” completely disposes of
the difficulty under which Darwin labored to account for the neces-
sary supply of variation on which natural selection could act. The

492520—59 23
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

most characteristic feature of the Mendelian gene is that it never
blends, but retains its identity and properties intact for long periods
of time until it mutates, after which it remains intact in its new
condition until it eventually mutates again. This means that the
amount of variation, or variance, present in a population resulting
from previous mutations, is not only conserved through generation
after generation, but is actually increased as a result of the recom-
binations of the gene complexes in their innumerable possible per-
mutations. This power of increase is one of the most important
results of the biparental method of reproduction and is the reason
why organisms possessed of this mechanism have evolved further than
those that lack it.

This conservation of variance is to be considered in relation to the
rate at which mutation normally occurs. It has been calculated that
in organisms as diverse as a bacterium, a maize plant, a fruit fly,
and in man, any given gene mutates in one in about half a million
individuals. It is also clear that this rate is itself the result of
selection, and that although seemingly slow, it has been adequate to
provide the requisite basic heritable variation which the mechanism
of germ-cell formation and fertilization has multiplied, and on which
selection has worked to produce whatever evolution has taken place.
In other words, mutation not only need not, but must not be more
rapid than a slow rate. This rate is immeasurably slower than
what it would have to be if “blending inheritance” were a fact, and
Darwin’s difficulty in accounting for an adequate supply of variation
is lightened by that amount.

As the originating mechanism for basic heritable variation, muta-
tion has naturally been intensively studied. It has been found that
certain physical and chemical agents, including radioactivity, can ac-
celerate the rate at which mutation would naturally occur, but that
these induced mutations are similar to those which occur and recur
normally, and no correlation whatever exists between the mutagenic
agents and the quality or “direction” of the mutations. Mutations
take place with “blindness and molar indeterminacy,” as H. J. Muller
has expressed it. This isa finding of capital importance, for it shows
that there is no basis for attempts to explain the origin of heritable
variation by appealing to environmental factors to evoke appropriate
responses, or to the internal factors to make such responses. Nor is
there any basis for the view that the environment would evoke ap-
propriate heritable responses if its actions were continued for a sufli-
cient time, because, as J. B. S. Haldane showed, such responses as
might be significant in evolution would be detected within the period
of the experiment carried out.

In organisms that reproduce by simple division of the whole body,
such as bacteria, special conditions apply because reproduction in them
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—pE BEER 345

involves not only transmission of genetic material in the form of
genes, but also transmission of bodily characters, since the latter are
carried over wholesale from “parent” to offspring. Adaptation to
new environments can take place in bacteria. Furthermore, in bac-
teria, and perhaps also in higher organisms, it is possible for organic
molecules such as bacteriophage particles to enter organisms and be-
come incorporated in the genetic mechanisms so as to behave like
genes. These results are full of promise as a field of research into the
nature of genes, and perhaps of mutations, but they do not in any way
invalidate the principles of Mendelian genetics and inheritance.

Mutations are chemical changes in the gene molecule, and since
chemical stability is not absolute, the puzzle about mutations is not
so much that they occur as that they occur so infrequently. This ig-
norance of the causes which determine the directions in which muta-
tions take place, if such causes indeed exist, is, strange to relate, no
handicap to the understanding of the mechanism of evolution, because
it is emphatically selection, not mutation, that determines the direc-
tion of evolution. This all-important conclusion is based not only on
detailed experimental studies on the effects of selection in nature, but
also on the demonstration by Sir Ronald Fisher of a general principle.
The effects of selection in changing the frequency of genes in a popu-
lation have been calculated for various percentage benefits in survival
value conferred by such genes. It has been found by calculation that
at the observed natural average mutation rate of one in half a million,
no mutant gene has the slightest chance of maintaining itself against
even the faintest degree of adverse selection. Furthermore, if the di-
rection of evolution were determined by the direction of mutation, it
would be necessary to suppose that such mutations must be predomi-
nantly favorable. In fact, the vast majority of mutations have been
unfavorable, and natural selection has acted against them by convert-
ing the resulting mutant genes into recessives, or by suppressing them
into the condition of mere modifiers, or by exacting the more drastic
price of abolition consequent on the rapid death of the organisms
containing them. It is natural selection, not mutation, that has gov-
erned the direction as well as the amount of evolution, and it has been
estimated that if mutation were to stop now, there is already sufficient
variation in the plant and animal kingdoms for evolution to continue
for as long in the future as it has continued hitherto in the past.

The bearing of this demonstration on hypotheses that attempt to
explain evolution by postulating the existence of agencies capable of
directing mutation is plain. It means that all such theories as invoke
the effects of use and disuse, “inheritance of acquired characters,”
environmental stimuli, “organic selection,” “inner feelings,” inherited
memory,” momentum along particular directions, orthogenesis, nomo-
genesis, and others, which assume that mutation can be made to follow
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

adaptively desirable directions, are not only devoid of any known
mechanism by which the direction of mutation might be brought about,
and devoid of evidence for the existence of such mechanisms, but they
involve a cause “which demonstrably would not work even if it were
known to exist.” It is therefore not surprising that in spite of re-
peated attempts, many undertaken with impure and insufficiently
standardized genetic material, and others in which the results were
simply faked, no evidence has been provided that the effects of use
and disuse or adaptive response to environmental conditions are in-
herited or induce appropriate mutations. From the evidence provided
by genetics, natural selection is the only mechanism capable of ex-
plaining evolution.

NATURAL SELECTION, “IMPROBABILITY,” AND “CHANCE”

An argument sometimes used against the efficacy of natural selection
involves the claim that the initial stages in the evolution of complex
structures or functions could not have been favored by natural selection
until such structures or functions had reached a certain level of per-
fection. Like all other arguments of the non posswmus type, this one
melts away before the progress of knowledge. A case in point is that
of the electric organs of fish, developed out of muscles which are
capable of discharges strong enough to catch prey and defend the fish
against its enemies. These organs are clearly adaptive and confer
survival value on their possessors, but the question arises what func-
tions they could perform in the initial stages of their evolution, when it
must be supposed that their power was too weak to kill prey or to
deter predators. Darwin himself was well aware of this problem, and
he met the argument by pointing out that “it would be extremely bold
to maintain that no serviceable transitions are possible by which these
organs might have been gradually developed.” He has been proved to
be right, because of the discovery by H. W. Lissmann that weak
electric discharges given off by certain fish function in a manner
analogous to those of radar equipment, and serve to convey informa-
tion of the proximity of objects in the water. Electric organs can
therefore be adaptive even when they are too weak to kill prey or deter
predators.

Another case may be cited because it illustrates the manner in which
an adaptive result may be achieved without itself being a direct object
of selection. Color vision has been evolved independently in many
groups of animals. Among the light-sensitive elements in the eye,
some are specially sensitive in dim illumination; others confer acute-
ness of vision in bright light when they are individually innervated,
with the result that light stimuli are perceived separately by very
small areas of the retina. In each of the two functions of seeing in
relative darkness and seeing accurately in the light, increased efficiency
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY— DE BEER 347

confers survival value from the very start of the improvement. But
when both these functions have been achieved in the same eye a
mechanism is produced, as E. N. Willmer has indicated, in which the
visual elements are differentially sensitive to light of different wave-
lengths, and this is the basis of color vision. The emergence of color
vision as an unexpected “bonus” resulting from the perfection of two
other functions is a concrete example of the principle to which Lloyd
Morgan applied the term “emergent evolution.”

It has also been objected that natural selection is a difficult concept
to apply to the evolution of very complex adaptations involving co-
ordinated variations either in one and the same organism, or even in
two different organisms. It is not necessary to go far afield to find
examples of this, for in all animals with separate sexes and internal
fertilization there has been a separate yet harmonious evolution of the
reproductive organs in the two sexes. It has been supposed that such
situations argued so high a degree of “mathematical improbability”
that they could not be explained as a result of natural selection, which
was, very erroneously, called “chance.” To this objection there are
several answers.

In the first place, those who invoke mathematical improbability
against natural selection can be refuted out of their own mouths.
Muller has estimated that on the existing knowledge of the percentage
of mutations that are beneficial, and a reasoned estimate of the number
of mutations that would be necessary to convert an amoeba into a
horse, based on the average magnitude of the effects of mutations, the
number of mutations required on the basis of chance alone, if there
were no natural selection, would be of the order of one thousand raised
to the power of one million. This impossible and meaningless figure
serves to illustrate the power of natural selection in collecting favorable
mutations and minimizing waste of variation, for horses do exist and
they have evolved.

It is worth while to study the question of improbability more closely.
As Fisher has pointed out, improbability has a different aspect when
considered from time before or time after the event. The probability
that any man alive today will have sons, grandsons, and successive
descendants in the male line uninterruptedly for one hundred genera-
tions is infinitesimally small. Yet every man today is the living
proof that this contingency, so highly improbable as it may have
seemed one hundred generations ago, has nevertheless occurred.
Similarly, the effects of natural selection are the reverse of chance
when considered ex post facto; they are rigorously determined, and
what they have done is to channel random variations into adaptive
directions and thereby simulate the appearance of purposive change.
This is why natural selection has been paradoxically defined as “a
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

mechanism for generating an exceedingly high degree of
improbability.”

Mention of purpose introduces the notion of teleology or fulfill-
ment of design which has sometimes been invoked to explain the pro-
duction of complex adaptations. Teleology and providential guid-
ance are double-edged weapons with which to attack the problem of
evolution, because it can be shown that the more detailed the adapta-
tion, the more “improbable” it may appear as a product of “chance,”
the more likely its possessor is to be doomed to extinction through in-
ability to become adapted to changed conditions.

Structures may be developed which at first benefit individuals in
their competition to survive; but by continued selection such struc-
tures may become exaggerated and lead to the extinction of the spe-
cies. This seems to have been what happened to the huia bird, where
mated pairs constantly remained in company together, and the beaks
of the male and female reached an extraordinary disparity of size
in adaptation to their very special feeding, but failed to enable the
birds to obtain ordinary food when their special diet was unavailable.
Excess, even of adaptation, is harmful, and the fossil record shows
that the vast majority of lines of evolution have led to extinction.

From the undoubted fact that many of the products of the plant
and animal kingdom convey to man the aesthetic quality of beauty, it
has been supposed that beauty is an end in itself to which the criterion
of usefulness and survival value could not be applied, and therefore
that it could not be imagined as a product of evolution. To this argu-
ment Wallace opposed the demonstration that if the quality of beauty
were an exception to the principle of evolution by natural selection, it
would be necessary to find an explanation for the existence of so
much in plants and animals that is positively ugly.

Darwin showed it to be an invariable rule that “When a flower is
fertilised by the wind it never has a gaily-coloured corolla.” The
beauty of flowers has been gradually achieved because of the survival
value of cross fertilization (consequent upon the attraction of in-
sects to such flowers) conferred on plants possessing them. The beau-
tiful colors and structures of birds and some other animals have re-
sulted from the survival value conferred on successful competitors
in sexual selection.

This demonstration of what may be called the natural nature of
beauty has been developed still further by Ray Lankester in the course
of a soliloquy on alpine flowers: “All beauty of living things, it seems,
is due to Nature’s selection, and not only all beauty of color and form,
but that beauty of behavior and excellence of inner quality which
we call ‘goodness.’ The fittest, that which has survived and will sur-
vive in the struggle of organic growth, is (we see it in these flowers) , in
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—DE BEER 349

man’s estimation, the beautiful. Is it possible to doubt that just as we
approve and delightedly revel in the beauty created by ‘natural selec-
tion,’ so we give our admiration and reverence, without question, to
‘goodness,’ which also is the creation of Nature’s great unfolding?”

In many of the higher animals, parental care and self-sacrifice, in the
interest of other members of the family such as incubating or gravid
females and young, have been favored by natural selection and con-
ferred benefit on the species. From earliest human times, the survival
value of altruistic behavior has been enhanced because of the pro-
longation of childhood and the consolidation of the family that have
characterized the evolution of man. The size of the unit within which
altruistic behavior conferred survival value has grown progressively
larger, but fitfully, as history and anthropology have shown, from the
family to the clan, the tribe, and the nation. In this manner, ethical
standards of conduct and morality have arisen which can be seen to
develop in individuals and have been seen to evolve in societies. Be-
tween these units, competition on the subhuman level of natural selec-
tion has persisted. With the development of man’s higher mental
faculties, conscious choice and purposiveness became factors in evolu-
tion, and for this reason the subsequent evolution of man has been of
a nature different from that of other organisms because it was no
longer governed solely by natural selection.

NATURAL SELECTION IN ACTION

Natural selection can be seen to be at work here and now in direct-
ing evolution. Modern techniques of study of genetics in populations
in the field developed by T. Dobzhansky and E. B. Ford have shown
that the relative longevities of variants in different environments can
be directly measured, and that the effects of such differential mortality
have been to produce evolutionary change. An example of this type
of research is that of H. B. D. Kettlewell on “industrial melanism”
in moths. Up to 1850 the British peppered moth existed in its typical
gray form known as Biston betularia, which is remarkably well
adapted to resemble the lichens on the bark of trees. From that date
a dark melanic variety appeared, known as carbonaria, which is ex-
tremely conspicuous against the natural bark of trees. The melanic
variation is controlled by a single dominant Mendelian gene and is
slightly more vigorous than the normal gray type. Nevertheless, be-
cause of its conspicuous color the carbonaria variety was constantly
eliminated, and this variety persisted in the populations of the
peppered moth only because the same mutation kept on occurring
again and again. The industrial revolution brought about a marked
change in the environment, since the pollution of the air by increasing
quantities of carbon dust killed the lichens on the trees and rendered
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

their trunks and branches black. Under these conditions it is the
carbonaria variety which is favored and the betularia penalized.
This has been proved by direct observation of the feeding of birds,
and by measurement of the survival rates of the different forms in the
different environments. The dark carbonaria form survives 17 per-
cent less well in an unpolluted area and 10 percent better in a polluted
area. One hundred years ago the dark variety of the peppered moth
formed less than 1 percent of the population; today in industrial
areas 1t forms 99 percent, and selection has made it more intensively
black than when it first appeared.

The case of melanism in the peppered moth also introduces a prin-
ciple to which L. Cuénot drew attention and gave the name of “pre-
adaptation.” ‘The melanic form of the peppered moth happened to be
“preadapted” to conditions which were only subsequently realized, or
in other words, if the industrial revolution had not taken place, the
melanic variety would never have become adaptive at all, and would
have suffered the same fate as the countless other mutations resulting
in variations which, whether “preadapted” or not, have been elimi-
nated because they fell short of the requirements imposed by natural
selection.

The evolutionary change actually witnessed in the peppered moth
is directly attributable to selection, and it is matched by similar
studies on other forms. Experiments by A. J. Cain and P. M. Shep-
pard on the survival rate of snails with shells of different colors and
banding patterns, living on dark- or light-colored backgrounds, have
shown that selection does not act like an all-obliterating steamroller
going in one direction. As the seasons change, the adaptive value of
the color of a shell changes from disadvantageous to advantageous and
back again. This proves that the effects of selection vary from place
to place and from season to season, and that the balance between an
organism and its environment is delicate, changing, and dynamic.

The phenomenon of Batesian mimicry has also been proved not
only to be adaptive and to confer survival value, but to have been
achieved by selection. Ford has shown that the degree of perfection
with which the mimics copy their models is a function of the prev-
alence of the models. The percentage of imperfect mimics in the
populations of Papilio dardanus is only 4 at places like Entebbe,
where models are numerous. At Nairobi, on the other hand, where
the models are 70 times less numerous than at Entebbe, the imperfect
mimics are 8 times more numerous and constitute 32 percent of the
population. Less survival value is conferred by resemblance to a
model when the latter is too infrequent to teach predators to shun it,
and there is then less selection pressure on the mimic to resemble it.

While the overriding importance of the effects of selection is now
generally realized, it has been suggested that when populations are
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—DE BEER 301

split up into very small isolated colonies, changes in the relative fre-
quencies of different genes might result from the errors of random
sampling in the formation of the germ cells and their fertilization,
without involving selection. This concept, advanced by Sewall
Wright and known as “random genetic drift,” has been invoked as a
possible cause of nonselective, nonadaptive evolution. It has, how-
ever, been invalidated by the results of experimental studies in the
field such as those of Fisher and Ford on moths, which have shown that
selective factors are much more important than casual nonadaptive
factors in determining the relative frequency of genes and in bringing
about close adaptation to local environmental conditions. Even in
comparatively numerous populations, from one generation to the
next there are fluctuations in gene ratio larger than can be attributed
to random sampling and which are controlled by selection. Such
effects as may be due to random sampling in small populations can
only be of negligible significance in evolution.

Selection frequently works on a basis of compromise. Among the
natives of Africa there is a condition known as sickle-cell anemia, in
which the red blood corpuscles are deformed and shaped like the
blades of sickles. This is controlled by a Mendelian gene which, when
inherited from both parents (homozygous), produces an extreme effect
which frequently kills the subject by thrombosis. When inherited
from only one parent (heterozygous), the danger from thrombosis is
not so great. In areas where malaria is present, however, there is a
positive advantage in possessing the sickle-cell gene, because the
malaria parasite cannot enter the abnormal red blood corpuscles. In
accordance with the prevalence of malaria in the environment, there-
fore, a balance is automatically struck in the population between the
danger of dying from malaria if the individual has no sickle-cell gene,
and the danger of dying of thrombosis if the individual has two sickle-
cell genes. Survival value and ability to leave more offspring there-
fore accrue to the possessors of one sickle-cell gene up to a certain
frequency, and this example shows in what unexpected ways selection
is able to make the best even of a bad gene complex.

NATURAL SELECTION AND PALEONTOLOGY

The paleontological record provides the evidence of the course which
evolution has followed in the past. The fossil material is in places
now so rich that it can be used for quantitative studies in evolution.
First, the radioactive time clocks enable various levels of evolutionary
lineage to be dated and the time measured during which certain
changes have occurred. This provides quantitative evidence of evolu-
tion rates. From such data estimates can be obtained of the duration
times of genera and species. Statistical study of large samples of
fossil materials enables the variability of the different species to be
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

assessed. By methods such as these, G. G. Simpson has worked out
that the evolution from Hyracotherium to Equus occupied 60 million
years. This involved passage through 8 genera, the duration of each
being on the average 7.5 million years; 30 species of a duration time of
2 million years each; and 15 million generations each reaching ma-
turity in 4 years. These data can be compared with those obtained
from other groups of animals, from which they differ considerably.
The results show that evolution rate is not correlated with variability,
nor with generation time, and that it is selection that controls the
direction and intensity of evolution.

These results are all the more important because in the past some
paleontologists, unequipped with knowledge of modern genetics, have
imagined that, from tracing the course of evolution in the lineage of
fossils which they established, they were in a position to draw con-
clusions about the cause of such evolution. Some have thought that
they had found support for the inheritance of acquired characters, al-
though they knew nothing about inheritance; others imagined that as
the lineage of some fossils showed linear progression of certain char-
acters, they were justified in concluding that evolution involved an
innate directional component, an expression of “momentum” leading
to evolution in “straight lines,” which they called orthogenesis. They
failed to realize that if selection in a particular direction benefits an
organism, continued selection in the same direction will, up to a certain
point, benefit it further. Others again have concluded from their ma-
terials that a distinction in principle could be made out between “big”
evolution leading to large evolutionary changes, and “small” evolution
producing trifling results. None of these speculations can stand up
to the evidence that selection determines the course of evolution, its
speed or its slowness, the greatness or smallness of the effects produced,
and its direction, which if constant for any length of time simulates
orthogenesis.

It is of interest to consider how far it is possible to extrapolate the
results of modern genetics into the paleontological past. C. R. Diver
has shown that in snails the patterns of banding found today were
already in existence in Pleistocene times. It is necessary, however,
to beware of concluding that because characters are similar they must
be controlled by the same genes. Even in one and the same species
today, the gene complex can undergo permutations which reproduce
the same structures with different genes. An example is provided
by the gene “eyeless” in Drosophila which produces flies with very
small or no eyes; this is, of course, extremely harmful. Eyeless flies
can, however, be made to breed, and although the mortality is very
high, progeny can be reared which after a few generations have eyes
like normal flies. In such a stock the “eyeless” gene is nevertheless
present unaltered, as can be proved by mating these flies with normal
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY— DE BEER 353

flies, when the effects of the “eyeless” gene manifest themselves in all
their force, though in the second generation, because “eyeless” is reces-
sive. This result is therefore in perfect accordance with the principle
that Mendelian genes do not become contaminated. What has hap-
pened during the inbreeding of “eyeless” flies is that the reshufiling
of the other genes has produced a gene complex in which the harmful
effects of “eyeless” have been suppressed.

The gene complex is therefore a dynamic system, as S. C. Harland
concluded from his researches on cotton. Genes compete, 1e., are
selected in the gene complex, old genes being dropped and new genes
incorporated. During the course of evolution the effective member-
ship of the gene complex must have changed, and it is not legitimate
to conclude that because a character or a structure like the eye of
vertebrates was in existence 400 million years ago, it was then con-
trolled by the same genes as control it now. The evidence is entirely
opposed to such a static view. It is precisely because the gene com-
plexes change that characters, structures, and organisms have evolved.

THE NEW SYSTEMATICS AND THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES

The researches on industrial melanism in the peppered moth, band-
ing and color of snails, mimicry in butterflies, local adaptation in
moths, and sickle cell in man, which have here been briefly described,
are examples of new techniques of experimental study of evolution in
the field. They have grown out of what Julian Huxley has aptly
called “The New Systematics,” to which he has himself contributed
somuch. Systematics, the study of species and of the higher groups
of classification, began by the recognition of differences between
species, defined from type specimens preserved in museums. But with
the realization that species now or in the past are or were populations
of live plants and animals in nature, living under varying conditions
of equilibrium with each other and with the inorganic factors of the
environments—themselves showing geographical variation in space,
and undergoing variation in time, subject to mutation and recombi-
nation of their genes, constantly under the influence of selection—
species can no longer be considered as static milestones of evolution,
for they are themselves the dynamic systems by which the roads of
evolution are trodden. As genes mutate and are reshufiled, and geo-
graphical races invade new ecological niches, advance and retreat,
it is already possible on a map to mark out lines of gene flow, as R. C.
Stebbins has suggested from his researches on Californian newts. It
may become possible to plot the areas of gene complex alteration, as
can to a certain extent already be done for the origin of cultivated
plants such as wheat; but such maps will be continually changing, like
the species themselves.
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Nobody would have welcomed these developments of biological
science more than Darwin himself, as a glance at the last few pages
of “The Origin of Species” will show. It is therefore appropriate
to return to the problem with which this article began. As is now
certain, species are not immutable but have undergone change, and
many examples have been given above. Evolution can take place
up to a point without the production of new species, but if this process
continues the time must come when new species originate, and it is
legitimate to ask whether modern research has revealed any evidence
of this. The answer is that new species can be seen originating in
nature here and now, and new species have been artificially produced
in the laboratory.

Speciation takes place when, for various reasons, populations cease
to breed with neighboring populations and, under different conditions
of selection, accumulate heritable variations by mutation and recom-
bination of genes in different directions. As E. Mayr has shown,
some form of biological isolation between portions of populations is
a necessary condition for divergence leading to the formation of new
species and higher groups.

Among the kinds of isolation that are chiefly responsible for the
origination of species, geographical isolation is the most important;
it involves physical barriers such as oceans, mountain ranges, or
deserts which separate whole populations. Geographical races are
the chief raw materials from which new species are formed, and it
was the different finches on the different Galipagos Islands which
first suggested to Darwin that evolution had occurred. Here, to
various extents, geographical isolation has assisted the origination
of a number of species.

A ease in which geographical isolation may be expected to produce
its effects at almost any moment now is provided by the gulls. These
birds occupy a zone shaped like a ring around the North Pole and
form what B. Rensch has called a chain of races. Starting with the
British lesser black-backed gull, with its dark mantle and yellow legs,
this is found to grade into the Scandinavian lesser black-backed gull,
and, continuing in an easterly direction around the chain, this in
turn grades into the Siberian Vega gull with its lighter mantle and
dull flesh-colored legs. The Siberian gull grades into the American
herring gull, which in turn grades into the British herring gull, with
its light mantle and pinkish legs. Although the British lesser black-
backed gull may be regarded as belonging to the same species as all
the other gulls in the chain to the east of it, when it is compared
with the other end of the chain represented by the British herring
gull the twe may almost be regarded as separate species. Already
they differ not only in color but in habits, for the latter nests on
cliffs and is dispersive in winter, whereas the former breeds inland
DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—bDE BEER 355

on moors and is migratory in winter. If at any time the chain be-
comes severed by the erection of a sterility barrier at any point, either
through inability to breed or through a rupture of the chain by local
extinction of the gull population, the two British gulls will effectively
have originated new species.

Geographical isolation is important for the origin of species of
plants as well as of animals, but there is another form of isolation
which appears to be restricted to plants and involves the sudden erec-
tion of sterility barriers between individuals in the same population
as a result of changes in the chromosome mechanism. This is known
as genetic isolation. When Primula verticillata is crossed with Pri-
mula floribunda, hybrid offspring are produced, but they are sterile
because the chromosomes of one parent species are incompatible
with those of the other, and the intricate machinery involved in the
formation of germ cells is thrown out of gear. Occasionally, how-
ever, the hybrid plant undergoes doubling of its chromosomes, a
condition known as polyploidy, and when that has occurred the
hybrid is able to breed with hybrids similar to itself because all the
chromosomes have compatible partners, but it is sterile in respect
to both parent species. Furthermore, the hybrid is not only true
breeding but is different in structure and in habit from each of its
parent species. It therefore fulfills all the criteria of a species and
has been called Primula kewensis. Many other new species have
originated by intentional hybridization and accidental polyploidy in
this way. Some of these artificially produced species have been found
to be identical with, and to breed with, wild species, and this is the
proof that this method of species formation occurs in nature.

THE CENTENARY OF EVOLUTION BY NATURAL SELECTION

In conclusion, it may be said that during the hundred years that
have elapsed since Darwin and Wallace first published their theory,
the fact of organic evolution is now universally accepted and its
mechanism has been formally explained.

The alternative to evolution is so naive that it comes as a shock to
realize that as recently as one hundred years ago, ideas such as called
for the following questions could still be current: “Do they really
believe that at innumerable periods in the earth’s history certain
elemental atoms have been commanded suddenly to flash into living
tissues? Do they believe that at each supposed act of creation one
individual or many were produced? Were all the infinitely numerous
kinds of animals and plants created as eggs or seeds, or as full
grown? And in the case of mammals, were they created bearing
the false marks of nourishment from the mother’s womb?” Darwin
might well allow himself to ask these questions, for he and Wallace
had found the answer to them.
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

So soundly was the theory of evolution by natural selection
grounded that research does nothing but confirm the links in its
chain of evidence and the inferences to be drawn from them. Its
field has extended from the explanation of the production of plants
and animals to every aspect of the intellectual life of man, and it °
would be imprudent to doubt that its greatest triumph may yet lie in
the highest aspect of that life. Some persons have attempted to
discredit natural selection, on the grounds that being a destructive
agent it cannot produce anything new or make the fit fitter. Such
persons have only demonstrated that they have neither understood
the problem nor studied “The Origin of Species,” in which Darwin
carefully pointed out that “several writers have misapprehended or
objected to the term ‘Natural Selection.’ Some have even imagined
that natural selection induces variability, whereas it implies only the
preservation of such variations as arise and are beneficial to the
being under its conditions of life.” Variation produces novelties at
random, but selection determines which are preserved. Only a genius
could have discovered a key of such simplicity to so great a problem.
Only ignorance, neglect of truth, or prejudice could actuate those
who, in the present state of knowledge, without discovering new
facts in the laboratory or in the field, seek to impugn the scientific
evidence for evolution.

With such new formulations as may be required, the concept of
evolution by natural selection continues and will continue to provide
what Darwin hoped when he wrote in 1837 in his Notebook: “My
theory would give zest to recent and fossil comparative anatomy; it
would lead to the study of instincts, heredity and mind . . . toclosest
examination of hybridity—to what circumstances favour crossing
and what prevents it—and generation, causes of change in order
to know what we have come from and to what we tend. This and
direct examination of direct passages of structure of species, might
lead to laws of change, which would then be the main object of study,
to guide our speculations.”

With the same confidence as it accepts Copernicus’s demonstration
of the movement of the earth around the sun and Newton’s formula-
tion of the laws of this movement, science can now celebrate the
centenary of the first general principle to be discovered applicable to
the entire realm of living beings.
[1]

(2)
[3]

[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]

[9]
[10]
[11]
{12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
(21]

[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]

DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY—»dE BEER 357

BIBLIOGRAPHY

GENERAL WORKS

Darwin, CuHaRLeEs. Sketch written in 1842, and Essay written in 1844.
DakWIN, CHARLES, and WALLACE, ALFRED RusseEL. On the tendency of
species to form varieties; and on the perpetuation of varieties and of
species by natural means of selection, 1858. Reprinted in Evolution by
Natural Selection. Foreword by Sir Gavin de Beer. Cambridge. 1958.

Darwin, CHARLES. The origin of species (6th ed., 1872). Introduction by
Sir Gavin de Beer. Oxford University Press, London. 1956.

Journal of researches by Charles Darwin into the natural history and
geology of the countries visited during the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle.
London. 1845. Reprints, with introduction by Sir Gavin de Beer.
Cambridge. 1956.

Charles Darwin’s diary of the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle. Nora Barlow,
ed. Cambridge. 1934.

Charles Darwin and the voyage of the Beagle. Nora Barlow, ed. London.
1945.

Evolution. Essays on aspects of evolutionary biology. G. R. de Beer, ed.
Oxford. 1938.

Evolution (Symposia of the Society for Experimental Biology). Cambridge.
1958.

Evolution as a process. Julian Huxley, A. C. Hardy, and E. B. Ford, eds.
London. 1954.

The new systematics. Julian Huxley, ed. Oxford. 1940.

CarTER, G. S. A hundred years of evolution. London. 1957.

DE BEER, G. R. Embryos and ancestors. Oxford. 1958.

DoszHANSsky, T. Genetics and the origin of species. New York. 1937.

Daruineton, C.D. The facts of life. London. 19538.

FisHer, R. A. The genetical theory of natural selection. Oxford. 1930.

Forp, E. B. Mendelism and evolution. London. 1957.

HUXLey, JULIAN. Hvolution: the modern synthesis. London. 1942.

Idem. Evolution in action. London. 1958.

CuaRk, W. EH. LE Gros. History of the primates. London. 1956.

Mayr, E. Systematics and the origin of species. New York. 1942.

OAKLEY, K. P. Man the tool-maker. London. 1956.

OAKLEY, K. P., and Mu1r-Woop, H. M. The succession of life through geo-
logical time. London. 1956.

RenscH, B. Neuere Probleme der Abstammungslehre. Stuttgart. 1954.

Simpson, G. G. The major features of evolution. New York. 1953.

STespines, J. L. Variation and evolution in plants. New York. 1950.

WabDpiInGTon, C.H. Strategy of genes. London. 1957.
Does Natural Selection Continue to Operate

in Modern Mankind?’

By Tueoposius DoBZHANSKY

Professor of Zoology, Columbia University
and

GorDOoN ALLEN
New York State Psychiatric Institute

THE PROBLEM

Tue purvose of the present article is to examine the validity of the
assertion, frequently made in medical, biological, and sociological
writings, that natural selection has been relaxed or even done away
with altogether in modern mankind, particularly in advanced indus-
trial societies. With this assertion as a premise, dire predictions of
biological decadence of the human species have been uttered, espe-
cially in popular scientific literature. It is of course not our intention
in this article to grapple with this immense problem in its entirety,
and we mean neither to affirm nor to refute the predictions of de-
cadence. We feel, however, that the thinking in this field may gain
in clarity from a reexamination of the concepts of natural selection
and adaptation, particularly as they apply to man. Such a reexami-
nation is the more needed since these concepts have not remained stable
even in biology since they were advanced by Darwin. Particularly
rapid change has taken place in recent years in connection with the
development of population genetics.

Natural selection is regarded in modern biology as the directing
agent of organic evolution. The process of mutation yields the genetic
variants which are the raw materials of evolutionary change. Sexual
reproduction then gives rise to innumerable gene combinations or
genotypes. However, which mutants arise, and when, have nothing
to do with their possible usefulness or harmfulness to the species.
Natural selection, nevertheless, so maneuvers the genetic variability
that living species become fitted to their habitats and to their modes

1 Reprinted by permission from American Anthropologist, vol. 58, No. 4, August 1956.

492520—59—_24 359
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

of life. Organic evolution consists of a succession of threatened losses
and recapturings of the adaptedness of living matter to its environ-
ment. But the environment does not change the genotype of a living
species directly, as some evolutionists of the past have wrongly as-
sumed. The role of the environment consists rather in that it con-
stantly presents challenges to the species; to these challenges the
species may respond either by adaptive modification or by extinction.

Tt would be an exaggeration to say that the above view of the evolu-
tionary process is universally accepted. Few biological theories really
are. However, the importance of natural selection, at least as an
agent which guards against degenerative changes in populations, is
denied by scarcely anyone. We need not labor the point that the
evolution of the ancestors of the human species was brought about
by the operation of the same fundamental biological processes which
act elsewhere in the living world. A new situation has arisen with
the advent of the human phase. Species other than man become
adapted to their environment by changing their genes. In man, the
adaptation to the environment occurs in part through development
and modification of his learned tradition and culture. Man is able
to adapt by changing either his genes or hisculture, or both.

Another innovation has also occurred in the evolutionary pattern
of the human species. Owing to the protection conferred upon cer-
tain weaker genotypes by civilization, natural selection against these
genotypes has become weakened or removed. Individuals and popu-
lations which would die out under allegedly “natural” conditions
survive and procreate in civilized societies. A large share of the
blame for this interference with “normal” evolutionary processes is
laid at the door of modern medicine. Although man possesses meth-
ods of adaptation which are peculiar to his species, he is still subject
to general biological laws. Biological evolutionary processes operate
in the human species within the unique evolutionary pattern condi-
tioned by human intellectual powers; yet it would certainly be a
dangerous matter to abolish the controlling influence of the processes
of selection.

STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE AND SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST

According to Darwin’s own testimony, the theory of natural selec-
tion was suggested to him in 1838, when he “happened to read for
amusement” Malthus’s “Essay on the Principles of Population.” Any
living species is able to multiply in geometric progression, and hence
to increase in numbers until it outgrows its food supply. In reality
this happens quite rarely, and populations of most species are stable
within relatively narrow limits. The causes which bring about the
relative constancy of numbers are by no means well known even at
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 361

present (see Andrewartha and Birch, 1955, and Lack, 1954, for rele-
vant information).

Nineteenth-century authors said simply that excessive production
of progeny was balanced by wholesale destruction in the “struggle for
existence,” in which “famine, war, and pestilence” were the principal
factors. Actually, things are more complex. Thus, with many
species of birds, the number of eggs in a clutch is such that under
average environmental conditions the greatest number of young sur-
vives to maturity. Larger clutches produce fewer, not more, sur-
vivors, since the parents are unable to take proper care of their
brood. Among insects, starving females or females that develop
from underfed larvae deposit fewer eggs than do well-fed females.
Scarcity of food, destruction by predators, disease, unfavorable
weather conditions, and accidents of every kind are all involved. One
or more of these factors may occasionally be decisive in different
species or at different times and places in the same species. Struggle,
in the sense of actual combat, is a rare occurrence among members
of the same species, although it doubtless exists. To give just one
example: adults and larvae of ladybird beetles, which normally feed
as predators on other insects, resort to cannibalism when the food is
scarce.

Destruction of a large proportion of the progeny certainly does
not by itself guarantee that natural selection will take place. The
contrary may be the case. When death or survival and production
or nonproduction of offspring are due mainly to chance, large-scale
destruction actually hampers selection for anything except fecundity.
Selection as an evolutionary force is most effective where each in-
dividual’s success or failure in life is a consequence of his over-all
excellence or imperfection. In precisely this situation, most nearly
approached by higher animals, the number of young produced is
usually small and survival rates are high (Schmalhausen, 1949).

To put it simply, in order to be effective natural selection must be
selective. On the average, survivors must be better fitted to live
than nonsurvivors. The survivors must be stronger, or more intelli-
gent, or better able to get along on little food, or more resistant to
weather, or better able to escape from diseases, parasites, or preda-
tors. But not even all these virtues combined will improve the qual-
ity of the progeny unless the fitness of the survivors and the unfit-
ness of the nonsurvivors are due to their genes. This proviso is
obviously most important in human evolution. In man, individual
and group success is often due to better means rather than to better
genes.

Natural selection is, then, brought about by the survival of the
genetically fit, not of the genetically fittest. Spencer’s “survival of
the fittest” was an effective slogan in the struggle for acceptance of
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the evolution theory. But the rhetorical superlative misrepresents the
actual situation by overstating the ferocity of the struggle for exist-
ence. Nietzschean superman is biologically a dubious foundation on
which to build the future of the species. In nature, even under most
stringent conditions, the survivors are usually fairly numerous and
possess a variety of genetic equipment. Without going into the de-
tails of this matter, it can be stated that too severe a selection is likely
to be less effective than a moderate one, because severe selection tends
to deplete too soon the reserves of genetic variability.

REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS

The version of the theory of natural selection which invokes sur-
vival of the fittest in the competitive struggle for life was remark-
ably well suited to the intellectual climate of Darwin’s times. It has
often been pointed out (e.g., Barzun, 1941) that the popularity of
Darwinism had more to do with the social and political implications
which some people read into the theory than with its scientific va-
lidity. Those who believed that limitless progress will inevitably re-
sult from unrestricted competition of private enterprise were beguiled
to learn that their economic views found support in a universal law
of nature. With colonial empires in the expansion stage, it was a
comforting thought that the exploitation of the weak by the strong
was merely a part of “the stern discipline of nature which eliminates
the unfit.” An eminent anthropologist was able to advocate with-
holding education from most people, in order that competition might
occur under “natural” conditions. This “social Darwinism” continues
to exist even today, and it has recently been given a modern biologi-
cal dress by Darlington (1953).

With the development of genetics, and particularly of population
genetics, the theory of natural selection has been recast in a more
exact, though emotionally less impressive form. Consider a popula-
tion of a sexually reproducing and cross-fertilizing species, such as
man. A Mendelian population of this sort consists of individuals
which differ from one another in certain genes. The population has a
gene pool, in which different gene variants are represented with dif-
ferent frequencies. Now, in any one generation, the carriers of the
different genes are likely to make unequal average contributions
to the gene pool of the next generation. Therefore, the gene fre-
quencies in the gene pool will change from generation to generation.
Some genes will be perpetuated at rates greater than their alternative
genes. The former are, then, favored by selection, and the latter are
discriminated against. The genes which are selected for may
eventually be established in the population, while those selected
against may be lost.
NATURAL SELECTION—-DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 363

Selection consists in differential perpetuation of genetic variants
in the gene pool of a population. Selective success is reproductive
success. The Darwinian fitness, or adaptive value of a genotype, is
measured by the mean contribution of the carriers of this genotype,
relative to other genotypes, to the gene pool of the succeeding gen-
erations. The highly fit genotypes are these which transmit their
genes most efficiently; the less fit ones have a mediocre reproductive
efficiency; the unfit ones leave no surviving and fertile progeny.

Under this sober appraisal, the “fittest” is nothing more spectacular
than a parent of the largest family. He is no longer the mighty
conqueror who has subdued countless competitors in mortal combat.
He need not necessarily be even particularly hale and hearty ; strength
and toughness increase Darwinian fitness only insofar as they con-
tribute to reproductive success. Mules are at least as vigorous and
resistant to harsh conditions as their parents, horses and donkeys.
But the Darwinian fitness of mules is zero, because of their sterility.
Conversely, a hereditary disease which strikes after the close of the
reproductive period does not diminish the adaptive value of the geno-
type. Anexample of thisis Huntington’s chorea. This isa dominant
disease due to a single gene, the incapacitating effects of which do not
usuaily appear until its carrier has passed most or all of the reproduc-
tive period. There has even been a suspicion that the carriers of this
gene have on the average a greater number of children than their
normal siblings. The infirmities of old age are easily accounted for
by the theory of natural selection. What happens to the organism
after the reproductive age is of no concern to natural selection, or
only insofar as the condition in old age is correlated with some traits
which appear during the reproductive age. In a social organism
like man, natural selection may, however, control survival in later
years, because what happens to the older members of the family or
community also affects the welfare of its younger members. The
tendency of this control might be to shorten the interval between the
close of the reproductive period and death because, as Haldane has
pointed out, in some societies the oldsters prove a useless drain on the
resources of the group. But comparison of the postreproductive years
in man with those in other primates would probably show that the net
effect of selection has been to lengthen this period.

The question whether modern man is subject to natural selection
can now be answered. Hecertainly is. Natural selection would cease
only if all human genotypes produced numbers of surviving children
in exact proportion to the frequencies of these genotypes in the popu-
lation. This does not, and never did, occur in recorded history.
Quite apart from the hereditary diseases and malformations for which
no remedies are known and which decrease the reproductive fitness,
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the inhabitants of different parts of the world have different
reproductive rates.

The selective forces which now act on the human species are natural,
rather than artificial, selection. Itis of course conceivable that natural
selection may some day be replaced by artificial selection. Indeed,
“To replace natural selection by other processes that are more mer-
ciful and not less effective’ (Galton) was the original theme of
eugenics. To make this dream a reality, the contributions which
various genotypes made to the gene pool of the next generation would
have to be decided on the basis of genetic considerations either by
parents themselves or by some outside authority. An alternative
idea has been developed, especially by Osborn (1951); instead of
substituting artificial selection for natural selection, he suggests a
reorganization of social and economic institutions so that natural selec-
tion could be relied upon to favor intelligence and social adaptability.

The frequent allegation that the selective processes in the human
species are no longer “natural” is due to persistence of the obsolete
19th-century concept of “natural” selection. The error of this view
is made clear when we ask its proponents such questions as, why
should the “surviving fittest” be able to withstand cold and in-
clement weather without the benefit of fire and clothing? Is it not
ludicrous to expect selection to make us good at defending ourselves
against wild beasts when wild beasts are getting to be so rare that it
is a privilege to see one outside of a zoo? Is it necessary to eliminate
everyone who has poor teeth when our dentists stand ready to provide
us with artificial ones? Is it a great virtue to be able to endure pain
when anesthetics are available?

The words “fitness” and “adaptedness” are meaningless except in
relation to some environment. Natural selection involves interaction
between the genotype and the environment, and this interaction leads
to furtherance of congruity between the interacting entities. For
this reason, organic evolution has on the whole been adaptive. It
is, nevertheless, a function of an imperfect world. One of its limita-
tions is that it is opportunistic. Selection enhances the adaptedness of
genotypes only to the currently existing environments. Therefore,
the direction and the intensity of natural selection are as changeable
as the environment. Selection in modern man cannot maintain our
fitness for the conditions of the Old Stone Age, nor can it prepare us
for novel conditions of the distant future except by increasing our
general adaptability.

Man’s environments are decisively influenced by his cultural devel-
opments. For good or for ill, natural selection fits man to live in
the environments created by his own culture and technology. In
these environments, the ability to subsist on uncooked foods is prob-
ably now less important than it once was; the ability to resist certain
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 369

infections prevalent in crowded towns is probably more important
than it was. So is the ability to learn, to become educated, and to
live in reasonable accommodation with one’s neighbors. Natural
selection now works in what some may call unnatural conditions, but
it is still natural selection.

RELAXATION OF SELECTION

The hoary fallacy which is perpetuated by some modern writers
is that for a genetic variation to be selected it must be important
enough to decide between the life and death of the creature. In
reality, even a slight advantage or disadvantage which increases
the probability of one genotype leaving more offspring than another
will be effective in the long run. It has recently been found (Aird,
Bentall, Mehigan, and Roberts, 1954) that the proportion of people
with blood group O is slightly higher among patients suffering from
duodenal ulcer than it is in the general population. This does not
mean either that everybody with O blood gets a duodenal ulcer, or
that those with other blood groups are immune. But the possibility
that the frequencies of O bloods in human populations may be in-
_ fluenced by the greater susceptibility of O persons to duodenal ulcer
is a real one.

The fitness, the adaptive capacity of the carriers of a given geno-
type is continuously changing. Suppose that the contribution of one
genotype to the gene pool of the following generation is equal to unity.
The contribution of a different genotype may then be represented as
1—s. The values is the difference in reproductive success between the
two genotypes and is called the selection coefficient. Now, the magni-
tude of the selection coefficient depends upon the environment. Selec-
tion coefficients grow larger as selection becomes more stringent and
they diminish as selection is relaxed. When s is zero, the genotypes
are equal in fitness, and selection does not operate upon them.

There can be no doubt that modern technology, and especially
modern medicine, have greatly mitigated the disadvantages of many
genetic weaknesses and disabilities: In other words, in an environ-
ment which includes modern technology and medicine, selection coeffi-
cients operating against certain human genotypes are smaller than
in a primitive environment. But this amounts to saying that the
fitness of the carriers of these genotypes has increased. A person
afflicted with hereditary diabetes mellitus can live reasonably happily
and may even raise a family if his environment includes proper doses
of insulin administered at proper intervals. Genetically considered,
a disability that can be corrected by environmental means so that it
no longer causes an impairment of reproductive efficiency ceases to
be a disability when a suitable environment is provided.
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

This reasoning applies also to any relaxation of selection that may
result from sociological progress. There is supposed to exist a danger
of loss or “erosion” of genes for high intelligence, owing to the higher
reproductive rates of the social classes in which such genes are sup-
posedly rare. Cook (1951, p. 260) describes this danger in the fol-
lowing way:

As this process continues . .. the average level of intelligence and the pro-
portion of gifted individuals decline. Should the feeble-minded level be
reached, most of the plus-genes will have been eliminated. But before that
time growing inefliciency and incompetence would cause the collapse of modern
industrial society. The Dark Ages which spread over Europe with the fall of
Rome were a cultural blackout that lasted for a thousand years. The Dark
Ages which would be caused by continued gene erosion could last five to ten
times as long.

It would not be appropriate here to discuss how far this eschatology
is justified by available evidence. It should, however, be pointed out
that the fearsome process, if it actually occurs, means that in our
society high intelligence decreases the average biological fitness of its
possessors, while less intelligent people tend to be more fit. This
appalling circumstance would be due not to the cessation of natural
selection, but to the relative intensification of selection for personality
traits other than intelligence. It would be unfortunate only insofar
as the most favored genotypes gave rise to certain characteristics
which could be regarded as undesirable on other grounds. If the
humble and the meek inherit the earth, it will mean simply that
under social conditions which obtain in modern industrial civilizations
humility and meekness are favored by natural selection, while pride
and egotism are discriminated against.

It should be noted that relaxation of natural selection does not by
itself change the genetic composition of populations; it does so only
in conjunction with mutation. The process of mutation constantly
and irresistibly generates genetic variations, and most of the mutants
are deleterious to the organism. Increase of mutation rates would,
then, lower the fitness of the population even if the selection pressure
remained constant. But the relaxation of selection would necessarily
mean that the “bad” genes will have become rather less dreadful than
they were.

SELECTION AND ADAPTEDNESS

More than half a century ago, in the heat of polemics, Weissmann
wrote about the “omnipotence of natural selection.” This unfortu-
nate exaggeration is not wholly absent in the writings of some modern
authors. Natural selection is a remarkable enough phenomenon, since
it is the sole method known at present which begets adaptedness to
the environment in living matter. But it has its limitations. As
pointed out above, it is opportunistic and lacking in foresight. More-
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 367

over, any genotype which possesses a higher net reproductive efficiency
has a higher Darwinian fitness, and is, by definition, favored by
natural selection. Higher Darwinian fitness usually goes together
with superior adaptedness to the environment; however, the correla-
tion is not perfect.

A single example will suffice to illustrate the occasional miscarriages
of natural selection. Dunn (1953) found a recessive gene in the
house mouse which is lethal when homozygous. A population of mice
in which this gene occurs in a certain proportion of individuals pro-
duces, then, some inviable embryos. The gene is clearly deleterious.
But this gene possesses the curious property that a male which is
heterozygous for it and for its normal allele yields more spermatozoa
carrying the abnormal than the normal gene. This automatically
confers upon the abnormal gene an advantage in the population, and
causes it to spread until its lethal effect in homozygotes checks its
propensity to increase in frequency. Dunn has found that the lethal
is actually common in many “normal” mouse populations, outside of
genetic laboratories. Up to a point, therefore, natural selection
favors the spread of a lethal gene in mouse populations because this
gene happens to be able to subvert the male reproductive processes in
its own favor. The reproductive success of a genotype is, in this case,
opposed to adaptive success of the population.

This discrepancy between reproductive and adaptive success arises
because the former has but one dimension: the rate of perpetuation
of a gene from generation to generation relative to that of an alter-
native gene. Adaptation is multidimensional, and herein lie some
unresolved problems about natural selection, particularly as it occurs
in the human species. The pioneers of Darwinism were already aware
that, in a social animal, the qualities which promote success in an
individual are not necessarily those which are most useful to the
society in which the individual lives. <A gene for altruism (if such
existed) might be discriminated against by natural selection on the
individual level, but favored on the population level. The outcome
of selection would, therefore, be difficult to predict. One might specu-
late that it would depend on the population structure of the species.
A gene for altruism might be lost in large undivided populations, but
might become frequent in a species subdivided into numerous compet-
ing colonies or tribes. Moreover, adaptedness to a certain environ-
ment, however perfect, need not go together with adaptability to
changeable environments (flexibility, according to Thoday, 1953).
For example, it is to be expected that of all the genotypes which are
successful in times of abundant food supply, relatively few will be
adaptable to periodic starvation; genotypes which can resist a large
variety of infections are not necessarily the most successful ones in
disease-free environments.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

It can be granted that some genotypes which were being eliminated
under primitive conditions are enabled to survive and to perpetuate
themselves in civilized environments. As pointed out above, this
necessarily means that the Darwinian fitness of these genotypes under
civilized conditions has risen relative to what it was under primitive
ones. The possessors of such genotypes, if they take proper care of
themselves, may even be able to secure their share of the joy of living.
Does it follow, however, that these genotypes may now be considered
desirable in the human species? The answer may, unfortunately, be
in the negative. Muller (1950) has portrayed the state of mankind
which might result from failure to eliminate weakening mutant genes
in the following way:

This means that despite all the improved methods and facilities which will be
in use at that time the population will nevertheless be undergoing as much
genetic extinction as it did under the most primitive conditions. In corre-
spondence with this, the amount of genetically caused impairment suffered by
the average individual, even though he has all the techniques of civilization
working to mitigate it, must by that time have grown to be as great in the
presence of these techniques as it had been in paleolithic times without them.
But instead of people’s time and energy being mainly spent in the struggle with
external enemies of a primitive kind such as famine, climatic difficulties and
wild beasts, they would be devoted chiefly to the effort to live carefully, to spare
and to prop up their own feeblenesses, to soothe their inner disharmonies and,
in general, to doctor themselves as effectively as possible. For everyone would
be an invalid, with his own special familial twists.

The outlook seems grim. Natural selection under civilized condi-
tions may lead mankind to evolve toward a state of genetic overspeciali-
zation for living in gadget-ridden environments. It is certainly up
to man to decide whether this direction of his evolution is or is not
desirable. If it is not, man has, or soon will have, the knowledge
requisite to redirect the evolution of his species pretty much as he sees
fit. Perhaps we should not be too dogmatic about this choice of direc-
tion. We may be awfully soft compared to paleolithic men when
it comes to struggling, unaided by gadgets, with climatic difficulties
and wild beasts. Most of us feel most of the time that this is not a
very great loss. If our remote descendants grow to be even more effete
than we are, they may conceivably be compensated by acquiring geno-
types conducive to kindlier dispositions and greater intellectual capaci-
ties than those prevalent in mankind today.

SELECTION OF WHOLE GENOTYPES

The propensity of evolution to produce unfavorable changes in
plants and animals may at first sight appear astonishing. Consider
the absurd difficulty which the human female has in giving birth to her
young. Here isa process which is assuredly essential for the perpetua-
tion of the species. Natural selection could be expected to make it
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 369

pleasant, or at least painless. Instead, childbirth is attended with
intense pain, and often imperils the life of the mother, of the fetus,
or of both. Although the later stages of pregnancy and parturition
are to some extent incapacitating in all mammalian females, they are
much more so in the human species. This and the other flaws in our
biological organization Mechnikov called “the disharmonies of human
nature.” We cannot but suppose that these disharmonies have arisen
during the natural course of human evolution.

The situation will appear less incomprehensible if the mechanics
of natural selection are considered. Natural selection cannot develop
this or that organ apart from the rest of the body, nor can it foster
this or that gene apart from the rest of the genotype. What is selected
in the process of evolution is the genotype as a whole. It is the whole
organism which survives or dies, and successfully reproduces or re-
mains barren. The genotype is a mosaic of genes, but it is wrong to
think of the organism as though it were a mechanical sum of parts,
each determined by a single gene. In the process of individual devel-
opment all genes act in concert. The whole genotype, not just some
genes, decides what an individual will be like as a fetus, in childhood,
in adolescence, in maturity, and in old age. Moreover, the develop-
ment of different individuals takes place in different environments;
and the genotype may be required to adapt its carrier to any one of the
possible environments. Certain differences between individuals (such
as differences between some blood groups) are ascribable to single
genes, but even the expression of these differences may vary; what an
individual is like is always due to all the genes this individual carries.

The evolutionary success or failure of a species is determined by the
fitness of its entire genotype, and of its entire developmental pattern,
in those environments which the species inhabits. An observer may
discern, however, that some particular feature or aspect of the organi-
zation is most instrumental in bringing about success or failure. Thus
with man: his body is remarkable neither by its strength nor by its
endurance. The evolutionary success of our species has been due to
brain power, not to body power. Evidently, some genotypes which
enhance brain power have been selected in spite of their tendency to
decrease body power. Darwinian fitness is the resultant of all the
advantages and disadvantages which one genotype may have com-
pared to other genotypes. In man, the ability to learn and to invent
and use tools influenced this balance more significantly than did mus-
cular strength or resistance to inclement weather, although these were
not negligible.

It is certainly reasonable to suppose that genotypes which combined
the greatest brain power with the greatest body power would yield the
highest fitness. Why, then, is man not always as wise as Socrates, as
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

strong as a lion, and as hardy asa dog? If we had unrestricted power
to plan the evolution of the human genotype we would probably equip
it with all these qualities and some others besides. But natural selec-
tion does not work according to any plan. Selection is opportunistic;
whatever can survive does. Man’s evolution was not designed or
arranged beforehand. It took the course which it did because man’s
genotype, imperfect as it was, was good enough to survive, and in fact
good enough to make our species a tremendous biological success.

Specialization is a common feature of the evolutionary pattern in
many kinds of organisms at the expense of all-around perfection. The
former is evidently more easily achieved than the latter. This is true
not only of unplanned evolution which occurs in the state of nature
but also of evolution under domestication, which to some extent is
planned. Among cattle, there exist dairy breeds and beef breeds;
there exist also some unspecialized breeds, but no breed combines the
maximal performances of the best dairy and the best beef breeds. Why
this is so is hard to tell; it may be that a combination of the above
sort is a physiological impossibility, since the qualities which one
may wish to combine may be antagonistic. On the other hand, it may
be that a perfect breed of cattle is simply yet to be obtained.

Perhaps the most impressive example, other than man, of an
organism whose biological success appears to be due to an outstanding
development of just one ability, and a mediocre development of others,
is the man-of-war bird (Fregata). Those who have had the oppor-
tunity to observe these superb fliers procure their food from the tropical
seas can hardly imagine a more perfect flying machine. Yet, the
legs of these birds are so weak that they cannot rise into the air from
a flat surface, nor can they alight on water since their plumage be-
comes waterlogged. Man is certainly the best thinking machine which
protoplasm has produced. This confers upon him a biological adapted-
ness so great that he continues to prosper as a species despite his rela-
tively weak body, his several biological disharmonies, and his many
follies. He need not fear biological extinction so long as his genotype
as a whole enables him to live in some environments, either “natural”
or devised by his own ingenuity.

EVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES ACCENTUATED BY CIVILIZATION

Many traits that were essential for bare survival in a paleolithic
culture are unnecessary in New York City, but we have emphasized
that natural selection is not restricted to the struggle for survival.
For all organisms, reproduction is the essential step in selection, and
reproduction in man involves not only bearing children, but rearing
them to maturity. In modern civilization, furthermore, parental in-
fluence may often be decisive in determining the success of children
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 3/1

in their own marriage and reproduction. If so, the reproductive suc-
cess of an individual may be more adequately gaged by the number
of his grandchildren than by the number of his children. Also, if
parental influence is so important, the existing negative correlation
between intelligence and family size may be compensated in some cul-
tural groups by a positive correlation between intelligence and suc-
cessful preparation of one’s offspring for adult adjustment. This ex-
tension of parental functions appears to represent a trend in human
cultural evolution; in our own society, as class differentials in fertility
diminish, it may restore some of the biological value which intelli-
gence seems to have lost.

Under civilization, reproduction and successful child rearing have
come to depend more upon individual adjustment patterns and less
on survival or reproductive capacity. Individual and family adjust-
ment is the modern theater of the “struggle for existence.” In our
culture biological adaptedness, that is, optimal reproduction and child
rearing, seems to bear no direct relation to economic or educational
status, but probably depends in part upon personal and social ad-
justment patterns. Though physical and mental handicaps rarely
eliminate persons completely, they probably affect such adjustment.
Among the traits capable in this way of influencing reproduction, the
relative importance of physical health is presumably diminished and
that of mental health magnified in comparison with selection in prim-
itive man. In addition, some physiological defects would appear
to contribute to personal maladjustments more frequently in a mod-
ern than in a primitive culture. Likely examples of such defects
are color-blindness, left-handedness, and allergic diathesis. With re-
spect to genetic factors underlying these traits, present-day natural
selection may be reinforced both relatively and absolutely. Finally,
the capacity to compensate for gross physical or sensory handicaps
probably has more selective value now than it did under conditions of
existence which eliminated most cripples completely.

Further speculation is unwarranted here, but it seems safe to as-
sume that most sensory or mental characteristics that were developed
in our primate ancestors in response to the demands of an increas-
ingly complex, variable environment, are even more important to
civilized man. If so, they surely play some role in determining which
persons shall marry, which shall have stable families, and which
shall raise more children. When handicapped individuals defy these
determinants and become parents, their children pay the price in a
relatively severe selection by the adverse physical and social en-
vironment. Asa result of this stringent selection in such families, on
the average, survivors in the third generation are probably superior
to the grandparents genetically.
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Selection for many traits at once always makes slower progress
than selection for one or a few traits. Insofar as natural selection
formerly maintained genetic traits that have now become useless,
civilization has eliminated a probable source of interference that
impeded selection for cultural adaptability. Whether selection in the
latter respect is in an absolute sense stronger or weaker than formerly,
it is probably operating more efficiently.

Whatever emphasis is placed here on the positive aspects of natural
selection under civilization is not intended as a denial of all negative
aspects. Man’s increasing physical dependence on his cultural her-
itage, beginning with clothing and cooked food, can be taken as a
historical fact, and accelerated specialization in this direction is to
some extent inevitable. Conflicts in our present culture between re-
production and higher education, or between reproduction and self-
control, are almost completely new selective forces in human evolution.
It is not at all apparent how these conflicts would be resolved in the
natural course of cultural progress. On the other hand, artificial
attempts to counter such selection by “eugenic” support of culturally
desirable types would inevitably lead to another type of dangerous
specialization; the very need of these types for such support, insofar
as the need exists, proves their failure to adapt biologically to civil-
ization. Dependence of society upon complex reproductive controls
seems to be a higher order of specialization, whether better or worse,
than dependence of the individual on medical and technical aids.

From a long-term point of view, another effect of civilization may
be more important than changes in selection pressures per se. Indi-
vidual genetic variation is the basis for selection, and this has been
accentuated in modern man for several reasons. First, relaxation
of selection in any respect immediately increases the proportion of
minor and extreme abnormalities in the surviving population.
Second, new environments, as well as the increasing proportion of
deviant individuals, permit fuller expression of genetic differences
formerly masked in uniform phenotypes. An example of this is
perhaps to be seen in some childhood reading disorders, which would
make little or no difference in an illiterate population. Third, migra-
tion and intermarriage of formerly separate races or groups produce
a great new diversity of genotypes. Fourth, increased survival of
mutations results, to a small extent, in greater prevalence of genes
that raise the mutation rate.

Even if selection should be reversed for a brief period of time the
above sources of increased genetic variation will, in Schmalhausen’s
words, mobilize the variability of the species. Thus, civilization is
now preparing man for rapid evolution in whatever direction long-
term selection may determine. As Jong as populations remain large,
and as long as competition exists in any form, degenerative evolution-
NATURAL SELECTION—DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 373

ary trends are likely to be outweighed by adaptive changes, but the
direction of these changes is uncertain.

CONCLUSIONS AND SUMMARY

The idea explicit or implicit in many writings, that all would be
well with the human species if obstructions to natural selection were
removed, does not stand critical examination. Man, like any other
biological species, is constantly subject to natural selection. The
genotypes which possess the highest Darwinian fitness in the environ-
ments created by man’s inventive genius are, however, not the ones
which were most favored by selection in the past. Natural selection
cannot maintain the adaptedness of modern human populations to
environments which no longer exist, nor can it preadapt them to
environments of the future.

Natural selection is opportunistic; it does not always lead to im-
proved adaptedness. After all, extinction has been the fate of count-
less biological species which lived in the state of nature and which
were at all times subject to natural selection. It would be folly for
our species to risk the same fate for the juggernaut of blind biological
force. One of the causes of extinction is too narrow an adaptedness
to a circumscribed biological opportunity which proves only tempo-
rary. Man has reached a solitary pinnacle of evolutionary success
by having evolved a novel method of adapting to the environment,
that by means of culture. Having ventured on this biological experi-
ment, our species cannot any longer rely entirely on forces of natural
selection as they operate on the biological level. Man must carefully
survey the course that lies ahead and constantly study his genetic
progress. He can then prepare to take over the controls from nature
if it should become necessary to correct the deficiencies of natural
selection. Only thus can he insure for himself continued evolutionary
advance.

REFERENCES CITED

AtrD, IAN; BENTALL., H. H.; MEHIGAN, J. A.; and Roprerrs, J. A. FRASER.
1954. Blood groups in relation to peptic ulceration and carcinoma of colon,
rectum, breast, and bronchus. British Med. Journ., vol. 2, pp.
315-321.
ANDREWARTHA, H. G., and Brrcu, L. C.
1955. The distribution and abundance of animals. Chicago.
BARZUN, JACQUES.
1941. Darwin, Marx, Wagner: Critique of a heritage. Boston.
Cook, Roper C.
1951. Human fertility: the modern dilemma. New York.
DARLINGTON, C. D.
1953. The facts of life. New York.
Dunn, L. C.
1953. Variations in the segregation ratio as causes of variations in gene
frequency. Acta Gen. et Stat. Med., vol. 4, pp. 189-151.
374 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

LACK, D.
1954. The natural regulation of animal numbers. Oxford.

MULLER, H. J.
1950. Our load of mutations. Amer. Journ. Human Gen., vol. 2, pp. 111-176.

Oszorn, F.
1951. Preface to eugenics. 2d ed. New York.
SCHMALHAUSEN, I.
1949. Factors of evolution: the theory of stabilizing selection. Philadelphia.
THopay, J. M.
1953. Components of fitness. Symposia of the Society for Experimental
Biology, vol. 7, pp. 96-118.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.
The Ecology of Man’

By Pau B. Sears

Chairman, Conservation Program
Yale University

[With 10 plates]
MAN THE NEWCOMER
Tue Livinc LANDSCAPE AND A New TENANT

Man is a newcomer into our earth that is old. This being true,
prudence suggests that man ought not be too self-centered. Instead
of devoting himself completely to taking advantage of his surround-
ings, he might do well to spend some effort getting his bearings.
Unfortunately, as matters stand now, science is being appled to com-
petitive and exploitive ends in far greater measure than it is to
establishing perspective. Even the humane and laudable business of
prolonging life and increasing food supply through science seems to
be raising as many questions as it solves.

We hear much these days about man’s conquest of nature. Suppose
as a first step we examine the record. It is longer than we of the
Western World had thought, for our ideas of eternity have reached
into the future rather than the past, giving us a curiously bobtailed
notion of time. We may thank the astronomer, the geologist, the
evolutionist, and more recently the physicist for setting us straight.
Owing especially to measurements of radioactive change we now have
some fairly good approximations of the age of the earth and the an-
tiquity of various geological events.

What we know can be made graphic by taking a thick book of
some 3,000 pages and assigning to each page the value of 1 million
years, since the planet earth seems to be some 8 billion (3,000 mil-
lion) years old. We would scan the first half of this book before
we came to any very clear evidence of life. Then we would begin
to read the fragments that tell us of slow and painful development—

1 Condon Lecture, 1957, reprinted by permission of the Oregon State System of Higher
Education, Eugene, Oreg.

492520—59 25 375

376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

marine to terrestrial, nonvascular to vascular, invertebrate to verte-
brate, fish to mammal, marsupial to man. This is not all. We would
read how, as old forms died out and new ones came on, there arose,
both in plants and animals, not only more effective relations to en-
vironment, but more elaborate mechanisms whereby the parent as-
sured the safety of the young.

We would see too an increasing interdependence among living
things, and between them and their physical surroundings. The fos-
sil hunters of today are not content merely to describe single species.
They go beyond this to identify social groups of extinct plants and
animals. Yet in spite of this increasing fitness of living organisms
we read no evidence in the record that any form of life ever had
things completely its own way. All were subject to some great prin-
ciple of give and take, leading toward a balance or equilibrium.

And finally if we took account of sediments and earth forms, of
the chemistry and geometry of rocks, we would find clear evidence
that living organisms have played an increasing part in geological
processes as time has gone on. We should see how the exclusively
physical processes of erosion, deposition, and crustal readjustments
came to be supplemented by organic sedimentation, the stabilization
of land forms by vegetation, and the modification of the flow of
energy and interchange of materials by many activities of plants
and animals.

Since such interrelationships between life and environment are
the peculiar business of ecology, a few words on that branch of bio-
logical study are in order. In 1959 we shall celebrate the centennial
of a landmark in man’s intellectual progress—the publication of Dar-
win’s “Origin of Species by Natural Selection.” You will recall that
the problem to which Darwin had addressed himself many years
earlier was that of trying to account for the bewildering variety and
astonishing fitness of living organisms, both plants and animals.
Some measure of this task may be had if we recall that perhaps
300,000 species of plants and nearly a million of animals have been
identified.

Darwin had at hand two powerful intellectual tools, one borrowed
from geology, the other from political economy. The first was the
principle of uniformity, which assumed that in nature events of the
past have been determined by those forces that we see in operation
today. The second was the idea that living beings have a far greater
capacity to reproduce than to survive. Somehow their numbers,
through the generations, are kept in balance with the space and means
of subsistence available. Many are born that do not mature, or if
you prefer to be Scriptural, many are called but few are chosen.

Fortunately Darwin was a naturalist, trained to observe nature in
all her aspects. He noted, although he could not explain, the tend-
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS SEE

ency of plants and animals to vary and showed that not all variations
were equally well fitted to particular environments. And so he con-
cluded that environment tends to eliminate the less fit while favoring
their more suitable competitors.

Thus were the seeds of two new sciences planted—genetics to deal
with variation and inheritance, ecology to investigate the interrela-
tion between life and environment. Curiously, a generation was to
elapse before either gained much headway and when they did genetics
raced ahead much the faster, for various reasons. ‘Toward the close
of the 19th century, the pioneer work in ecology filtered across
the Atlantic to receive its warmest welcome at two youthful uni-
versities, both in the Midwest, Chicago and Nebraska. First to be
developed was plant ecology, later came animal ecology and their
combination, bicecology. Human ecology, our present concern, is
still in a tentative stage, but the ultimate goal is a general ecology,
embracing that of all forms of life.

By this time ecology has proved its value in forestry, range, fish,
and game management, where specialists are free to employ it. Its
greatest potential service to mankind, however, can only be possible
through voluntary public policy, based on widespread common
knowledge and consent. Ecology is, above all, a source of perspec-
tive in time and space and a means of understanding the great proc-
esses of which we are necessarily a part. We now face urgent prob-
lems in the allocation of population pressures, the use and care of
environmental materials and energy, the planning of space, and the
elimination of war and other forms of waste. These all call for an
ecological understanding beyond that now possessed by engineers,
and leaders in finance, industry, and politics.

Since increasing numbers are exposed to courses in biology in high
school or college or both, it seems quite possible that the emphasis of
these courses should be reviewed, to insure a proper presentation of
important ecological principles. It is all very well to learn about
anatomy and physiology in plants, animals, and man. But no one
would expect, for example, to deal through a knowledge of mechanics
alone with the many public problems raised by the automobile. In-
deed, viewing the extravagant missilelike design and immense waste
power of the modern automobile, I wonder whether automotive engi-
neering couldn’t do with a little ecology of its own!

In any event, a practical way to test some of these notions and to
prepare us for considering man’s place in nature is to examine some
of the more elementary findings of the ecologist. Doing so, we must
keep in mind that his essential business is to study process, in particu-
lar the process wherein life and environment interact. Obviously he
must understand both living organisms and their environment—a task
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

complicated by the fact that living organisms are themselves a part of
the environment of other living things.

Now environment, any way we consider it, is a mighty complex sys-
tem in itself. But there is an old rule and a good one that the way to
tackle a complicated problem (in science, business, or personal rela-
tions) is to take it a bit at a time, provided one doesn’t ever lose sight
of the whole. Perhaps as useful a breakdown as any is the following:
Earth : Lithosphere, studied by geologists, geographers, soil scientists.

Air: Atmosphere, studied by climatologists, meteorologists, ete.

Water: Hydrosphere, studied by oceanographers, limnologists, hydrologists, etc.
Life: Biosphere, studied by biologists.

To these might be added A/ind—the Psychosphere, studied by psy-
chologists, anthropologists, and other social scientists.

Clearly no ecologist can become all these various specialists rolled
into one. But he must be enough at home in their various fields to
draw upon them as he needs, and even to contribute what he can. In
particular he must learn to work the borderlines between them and
in some degree become what has been called a “specialist in the gen-
eral.” To do this at the sacrifice of thoroughness or the ability to do
scrupulously accurate, detailed work when necessary, would, however,
be as fatal to him as to any other scientist.

By way of examples of some of the things that are of especial! con-
cern to him from each of these several aspects of environment let us
take:

Earth (the solid lithosphere).—Here he is interested in the obvious
irregularity of surface forms and chemistry, both so significant for life.
Mountains and valleys, ores and nutrient minerals are where we find
them, not predictable on any simple geometrical plan. This means
that the ecologist cannot, to the same extent as the chemist, safely rely
upon universal formulas. Each situation must be studied on its
merits. The rainfall which suffices to produce forest in a cool region
may mark desert nearer the Equator. The failure of one plant to form
seed in a given locality may be due to temperature or mineral defi-
ciency ; in another to the absence of a particular insect.

Yet behind all the diversity and irregularity there exist certain
trends toward order and equilibrium. Rivers tend to seek base level,
extreme differences in elevation and mineral content to be reduced,
soils to develop toward maximum fertility, and so on. Frequently
though such trends may be interrupted or reversed, they are not to be
ignored.

Air (the gaseous atmosphere).—Gas, or spiritus in classical lan-
guage, long the most mysterious and elusive of the states of matter
proved in the end to be most amenable to experiment and the simplest
for mathematical treatment. It was the study of gases that unlocked
the gate to modern chemistry and physiology. The gaseous envelope
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 379

of our planet is, like the soil, a reservoir of materials needed by plants
and animals. It is also the medium through which solar energy
reaches vegetation. But more than this, it is in constant turmoil, due
primarily to that same solar energy. Its dynamic activity provides us
with our daily weather while its behavior pattern in time and space
we designate as climate, so important to the distribution and activity
of living organisms.

Although atmospheric behavior is based upon the geometrically
regular relations of sun and earth, the irregular pattern of land and
water causes many interesting and important variations from place to
place, from time to time. Great shifts have taken place over long
periods of time as witnessed by the presence of coal in the polar re-
gions and evidence of continental ice masses as far south as the Ohio
River. Lesser fluctuations, for example the recurrence of dry years in
groups, are known to be normal events and should be so regarded in
planning regional economy, notably in the High Plains.

Water (the hydrosphere).—Here we deal with three states of
matter, liquid, solid, and gaseous. Although the prevailing tempera-
tures on earth lie between the melting and boiling points of water—
a very fortunate circumstance for life as we know it—of the utmost
importance is the ability of water to form vapor at temperatures
below its boiling point. Thus water rises from the oceans and moves
inland as vapor, to fall upon the land as rain or snow, then flows back
to sea. The rate of this return is of great ecological moment. In
general the more gradual it is, the greater its opportunity to sustain
life on land and the less it disturbs land forms through erosion and
deposition. And here we encounter one of those many mutual rela-
tions that abound in the living landscape, for it is vegetation which,
once established, chiefly restrains the rush and destructiveness of flow-
ing water.

Truly, water, one of the most familiar of substances, is yet one of
the most amazing; and its presence in atmosphere, lithosphere, and
living organisms as well, serves to remind us that environment is a
great interwoven complex which we can take apart only mentally in
our effort to understand it better.

Life (the living biosphere of plants, animals, and some simple
forms that may be either, or both).—In the old days when physical
scientists were called natural philosophers, and geologists and biolo-
gists were not ashamed to be called naturalists, it used to be said that
nature abhors a vacuum. It might be said with equal truth that
nature abhors the absence of life on earth, in air or water. Life,
whether visible to us or not, abounds everywhere, thanks to the vari-
ation, reproductive vigor, and fitness through natural selection that
Darwin pointed out to us.
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Let us say that environment abounds in niches or opportunities for
particular organisms to carry on, and that the course of evolution has
been a process of filling these niches, meanwhile creating new ones
at every step. Thus the oak tree, once established in its own niche,
possibly a sunny, well-drained slope facing southwest, affords suitable
niches to woodpecker, squirrel, fungi, and insects that find on it food
or shelter, or both. We ourselves create niches for dogs, poultry,
rats, maize, and wheat, and an impressive list of smaller organisms
whose number may vary inversely with our use of soap and water.

Any species moving into a niche has an effect or reaction upon
the situation. Let us call this its role. The effect of this role may vary
widely. Thus the squirrel’s habit of burying acorns is a means of
planting many oaks, while its fondness for buds in early spring must
be a more or less efficient substitute for the self-pruning that we see
in the cottonwood. The role of coyote in keeping a balance among
rodents and thus protecting the grasses and other plants that sustain
the whole native menagerie of the Yellowstone area I have observed
myself. From years of studying such remnants of undisturbed nature
as I could, I have concluded that, on the whole and in the long course
of time, unless an organism in its niche performs a role that con-
tributes to the balance of nature, it is likely to be eliminated.

Every organism we know about, with one interesting exception to
be discussed later, is confined to a limited geographical area known
as its range. Within that range it is usually restricted to certain
favorable habitats that afford it an appropriate niche. These pat-
terns are set by the operation of what are called limiting factors.
Thus the commercial growth of maize is limited in the north by cold,
in the west by dryness, and to the east by a combination of topog-
raphy, soil chemistry, and economics. Any plant or animal requires
a certain constellation of favorable conditions to survive and does
not thrive beyond the point where any one of these conditions becomes
unfavorable or, as we say, limiting.

Some of the most interesting cases are those in which the limiting
factor is the presence or absence of another species. Orchids may
require certain fungi, cowbirds and cattle egrets follow grazing
herds, walnut roots poison tomato plants, and tsetse flies carry
sleeping sickness, thus keeping people out of an area and favoring
certain African mammals which otherwise man would exterminate.

The hunter and naturalist have long known that plants and animals
occur in characteristic communities or groups. To speak of jack
rabbits or prairie dogs is to suggest grassland. We would expect to
see squirrels in a woodland of oak and hickory, ptarmigan and conies
in the beautiful flowered alpine meadows above timber line. Even in-
sects and microscopic forms of life may be known by the company
they keep.
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 381

Any community has both structure and composition. Structure
depends on the form of dominant plant life, as forest, grassland, or
scrub. This tells us a good deal about local conditions such as mois-
ture and length of growing season. Grass requires more moisture
than scrub, trees more than grass, as a rule.

To get further information we have to see what kinds of trees make
up a forest, what kinds of grass and other herbs form a given prairie
or steppe. Desert plants look much alike the world over but are very
different botanically, cactuses being 100 percent American; or rather
they were until misguided people took them to North Africa and Aus-
tralia where they have become an unbounded nuisance. It has become
necessary, in fact, to send back to America for insects that serve to
keep cactuses in hand in Mexico and our own Southwest. As we have
said earlier, plants and animals through occupying niches and perform-
ing roles have a general tendency to maintain a balance among them-
selves and with the physical conditions around them.

This balance is not a perfect thing, nor is it achieved immediately.
The living organisms that first occupy a particular site change it by
shading, enriching, and in other ways, so that they actually write
their own finis, being succeeded by other species. This process, ap-
propriately known as ecological succession, continues up to the point
where members of the community can perpetuate themselves as hem-
lock does under hemlock, which for its part may have come in under
fir or spruce. And perhaps the fir or spruce has followed pine after
the latter had occupied bare ground. Thus it is that one can read
climate, soil moisture and quality, and history to boot by observing
living communities. It is important, not only to human enjoyment,
but to human understanding that we do not destroy completely the
natural communities which have preceded us and literally prepared
the way for us.

These communities have built up the soil to sustain far more life
than could the original bare ground, virgin soil being notably rich.
They have also regulated the flow of water and held the ground in
place. They are the homes of plants and animals that are useful, in-
teresting, and enjoyable. They serve, far better than any instruments
man has devised, to give us a measure of the capacity of an environ-
ment to sustain life. And, believe it or not, they afford us models for
our own use of land. The most destructive practices, such as growing
single crops in rows, are a far cry from what we find in nature. But
grass and legume farming with livestock to consume the product and
enrich the soil, winter cover crops to protect fields that otherwise
would be bare, and forests on rough ground are far better for the
land and, in the long run, for the man who lives on it. They accord
better, too, with certain fundamental laws that govern the efficient
use of energy and materials.
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

What we have tried to say thus far is that man has enjoyed the ad-
vantage of an earth that was, so to speak, a long time getting ready
for him. More specifically put, he has evolved in relation to and by
virtue of a highly organized and specialized environment. The earth
is fit for him and he for it not only because of what he found here
but of what went on here during the millions of years before his ad-
vent. Surely it behooves him to think twice before causing too much
disruption.

Now let us look at man himself more closely. He is often called a
Pleistocene mammal, which means that he appeared during the great
glacial period in geological history. This was a time of storm and
stress. Evaporation lowered the oceans to feed the growing polar
and alpine ice. As the ice expanded it narrowed the biosphere into
an equatorial girdle and within that girdle rainfall was probably
heavy, favoring forests. At times the ice retreated, as it is doing now.
Moisture lessened, temperatures rose, the living girdle widened to-
ward the poles, and places which had been humid forest became
desert. Such have been conditions during the past million years or so,
the time that human beings have existed.

We are a novelty, if we do say so. Reach up to chin yourself, note
the articulation of your shoulder joint and the ability of your hands
to grasp a bar (or branch) strong enough to sustain your weight.
Then ask yourself “What kind of a community—desert, grassland, or
forest—did early men, my own ancestors, probably come from?” It
seems clear that at first man, like other species, was restricted in range
and habitat by certain limiting factors, temperature and suitable food
being among them.

But not for long. Why? Look again at your hands. Note the
opposing thumb and fingers and compare their manipulative range
with that of any bird or beast you know. Think of your erect spine
that frees your forelimbs from serving as legs, your head pivoted
for swinging about the horizon, and your eyes set to form between
them the base of a triangle. Any object you look at becomes the
apex of that triangle enabling you unconsciously to form some judg-
ment of its size or distance, or both. With such equipment an
astonishing range of experience becomes possible.

That is not all. You have a central nervous system that is large to
begin with and can continue its growth. Any experience, we know,
registers in this central nervous system, to be recalled or reconsidered
in future. Over and above what is called the “old brain” in mammals,
you possess a powerfully developed “new brain,” the busy nerve
center of conscious activity. The “old brain” for its part attends to
many routine matters without bothering headquarters.

Finally, human beings are equipped with a remarkably versatile
vocal system, capable of producing an infinite variety of sound com-
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 383

binations. It is thus possible to have spoken symbols enough to com-
municate our experiences and thoughts to others. In this way knowl-
edge can be exchanged and accumulated, and handed down through
the generations, an immense advantage over the old do-it-yourself,
learn-the-hard-way system that prevails so widely in nature. The
upshot was a true biological revolution, the birth of culture, carrying
with it the awful gift of conscious responsibility.

Man’s unique power to manipulate things and accumulate experience
presently enabled him to break through the barriers of temperature,
aridity, space, seas, and mountains that have always restricted other
species to specific habitats within a limited range. With the cultural
devices of fire, clothing, shelter, and tools he was able to do what no
other organism could do without changing its original character.
Cultural change was, for the first time, substituted for biological
evolution as a means of adapting an organism to new habitats in a
widening range that eventually came to include the whole earth.

There is not much doubt that man is an Old World product and
great interest centers just now on research in Africa where very
early humanoid primate material keeps turning up. We reason that at
first man was a gatherer, eating what he could find and digest. To
judge by the thoroughness with which eatables, poisons, and drugs
were known before the days of modern science, man must have tried
nearly everythine—plant, animal, and inanimate—that he found. We
can be fairly certain of one thing—early man had to have considerable
space to pick over if he survived. Even when he had developed tools
and weapons for hunting it is estimated that some 4 square miles per
person were required to sustain a family. Until the domestication
of cereals and other food plants mankind was spread thin. The State
of Ohio, an area of about 40,000 square miles and now holding 7 to 9
million people, is estimated to have been populated by only 12,000 to
15,000 Indians even when some agriculture was combined with hunt-
ing, gathering, and fishing in that very fertile land.

Now spacing is a crucial and constant problem with living organ-
isms, plants as well as animals. It has a twofold aspect. We might
say that it involves both contact and elbowroom. The individual
must not become completely out of touch with his own kind. No
matter how unsocial the species, there must be communication for
reproduction at the very least. Beyond that one finds all degrees
up to the highly social and cooperative.

On the other hand the most dangerous potential competition of a
species is that with precisely the same needs, namely its own kind.
The sweet song of the nesting robin is more often a No Trespass sign
than a love call. The jaeger, an Alaskan bird of prey that feeds on
rodents, gets along very well when food is scarce. But when the
rodent population builds up, the jaegers behave like a lot of claim
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

jumpers around a gold strike. They encroach on each other’s terri-
tory, and between fighting over the abundance of food and squabbling
over nesting space they fail to raise the normal broods to maturity and
their population starts to decline before food runs out.

It seems reasonable to suppose that man’s progress over the earth
was a matter of families or small groups living together for protection
and cooperation, but spreading out and away from too close competi-
tion with other groups. If so, it affords a beautiful illustration of
the principle that “competition with other species has a centripetal
effect, driving each back into its own territory, while competition
within a species is a centrifugal force, causing the species to scatter.”

Man has always had to reckon with both kinds of competition. In
the beginning, and until fire and weapons were available, the now
extinct Pleistocene mammals doubtless kept him in bounds, never far
from caves, perhaps treetops, and other citadels. The effect was
clearly centripetal. But the recent finding of extinct mammal re-
mains in association with stone weapons shows clearly that he had
discovered another refuge—the devices of his culture. He needed no
longer to defend himself within a certain stronghold, but within a
way of life. Modern man, having pretty well disposed of his larger
competitors, now finds himself pitted against rodents, insects, and
fungi for control of food and other organic materials. He has also
long been engaged in a confused competition for space with forests,
of which more later.

It is a safe guess that as he overcame pressure from other species,
that from his own increased, thus setting the weaker and more venture-
some both on the road. What he accomplished, on foot, with only the
dog, fire, and stone tools to aid him, is one of the most remarkable of
human achievements. It happened during the accordionhke action of
the glacial age, when climate compressed the habitable regions as the
ice advanced, releasing them to expand as it retreated. Through this
experience man learned to adjust himself to new vicissitudes of
temperature and to utilize new forms of animal life from colder
regions. The warm interglacials opened his path to the far north.
Our observations in Greenland show us that glaciers can form only
where both cold and moisture are present.. There are and were many
dry cold areas where early man, by now accustomed to the cold, could
hang on in spite of the relentless advance of the continental ice masses.

This had spectacular consequences. As the ice grew from the
moisture that fed it, the sea level was correspondingly lowered, until
it was some 300 feet below where it is now. Then, of course, sea
bottom was exposed in places, creating migration pathways. These
served man as they had served various Old World animals for an
entry into the New World and allowed the horse, evolved in the
Americas, to move westward into Asia. Just how and when these
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 385

various shifts occurred is one of the intriguing problems of science,
but we can say they did happen.

At any rate man had spread his wide-meshed net of sparse popula-
tions into every continent before the next revolutionary step, his do-
mestication of the cereals. We are pretty sure of our ground here
because we can, by various methods, trace the use of cultivated plants
outward from the centers of first use, and we know the general location
of three such independent centers. These are Asia Minor (wheat),
southeastern Asia (rice), and Mesoamerica (maize). In each in-
stance a grass of weedlike readiness to grow in open bare ground and
with fruits of good size and nutritious character played the star role.
Around each was developed a complex of other plants (in America,
squash, beans, peppers, tomatoes, etc.). It has been suggested, with
good arguments, that the rich bare surface of household dumps, where
bones, scraps, seeds, and doubtless manure accumulated, were man’s
first gardens. The readiness with which tomato and melon vines
spring up today out of garbage heaps makes this seem reasonable.
So, too, does the fact that certain weeds of the amaranth and goosefoot
family not only appear at the beginnings of agriculture in the Old
and New Worlds both, but are still used as food in places. And, un-
fortunately, the average single-crop field happens to be the ecological
equivalent of the pioneer, or weed stage in community development.
If you will recall that at this stage of succession living organisms have,
unlike the mature forest or prairie, a minimum stabilizing effect on
the habitat, you will see why unskillful agriculture has often been its
own undoing.

But the important thing is that by domesticating food plants, man
reduced enormously the space required for sustaining each individual
by a factor of the order of 500 at least. This meant that people could
live closer together and in larger groups. It also meant that time was
available for something beside the constant search for food. Cities
and leisure for the arts were born, the offspring of agriculture. And
yet, by a wry twist of fate, we see in history that repeatedly the status
of the farmer has been lowered and with it the quality of his work
and the response of the soil. Bad as it is for the offspring to look
down on his parent, it is far worse for him to destroy that parent.
Today, as a result of the present population explosion and resultant
urban spread, choice garden, orchard, and farm land is being con-
verted into suburbs and lost to the production of food and fiber. But
we are ahead of our story.

The human record becomes less vague—more continuous and clear—
following the invention of agriculture and cities. Technical im-
provements in the use of minerals, fabrication of tools and utensils,
the arts of writing, sculpture, and architecture, and civic and military
organization came on in succession, either by independent invention
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

or often by transfusion. Much has been lost, much may be misunder-
stood, but the main trends are clear and growing more so every year.

It is not enough, however, to know the record. We need to know
its meaning as well. Until very recently history told us much about
man, little about environment and practically nothing about their
interrelation. In other words, moral history was a thing completely
apart from natural history. This, let us add, could scarcely be helped,
for our discovery of the method of discovery, that is science, is some-
thing quite new, old though its roots may be.

What can and must be helped, however, is any further continuance
of a bad situation. Now that we stand committed to universal educa-
tion and the political responsibility of the individual we must close
the gap between the humanities and the sciences. We must rewrite
history and restudy human values with an eye to man’s long evolu-
tionary background and his growing role as a natural force. What en-
vironment does to him and what he in turn does to it are of far more
significance than the loves of monarchs and the quirks of generals.
Conquests and migrations, campaigns and battles, creative arts and
religious philosophies all take on a fuller meaning in the context of
ecology.

Environment and life are inseparable, as Darwin showed them to be.

MAN THE DOMINANT
A Tenant Becomes LANDLORD

Our discussion up to this point might be summarized by saying that
man has enjoyed the benefits of a highly developed and organized
environment. As for the environment itself, it can be described as
a whole that is more than the sum of its parts, thanks to its organiza-
tion. The same thing is true of the human being, whose peculiar
bodily characters do not increase his power by simple addition as each
layer of boards increases the height of a pile of lumber. Instead his
facility of manipulation, vision, speech, and thought resulting finally
in culture, increase his basic animal powers in a manner truly ex-
ponential.

For an analogy we need only think of a company of say 100 men.
Add another individual and if he be vested with authority and en-
dowed with certain qualities of character and personality you will
have not 101 percent of what you had before, but perhaps 500 or
even 1,000 percent.

Precisely such an instance occurred when hunting was replaced
by an efficient agriculture. There were, of course, many degrees of
effectiveness in various cultures as there still are. The most notable
perfection was, curiously enough, where difficulties had to be over-
come, particularly where the control of moisture conditions was in-
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 387

volved. Here something like a sedentary system developed, while
the technical stimulus of dealing with water by storage, ditching, flood-
ing, and draining, had its impact not only on food production but
on engineering, mathematics, and physics. It was in such places as
the empires of Mesopotamia, the kingdoms of the Nile, the terraced
highlands of Peru, and the lake-margin gardens of Mexico that the
arts really flourished.

By contrast there developed within forest regions an exploitive and
transient type of land use, resting upon removal and destruction of
the original cover by chopping and burning. Planting with simple
tools might yield returns for a year or two, but grass and weeds
would presently come in. If domestic animals were at hand, the area
might then be pastured for a time while fresh clearings were made
and the process repeated. In the absence of grazing animals such
areas would revert to brush and then to forest, as they would ulti-
mately through the growth of briers even if pastured. This type of
use is not too bad so long as the cycle permits some recuperation. But
it cannot sustain a dense population for any great period of time.
In contrast to the control of water, which enhanced the potential of
environment and encouraged the concentration of people, forest clear-
ance destroyed the very constructive agency that had made the area
productive in the first place, without substituting any proper
equivalent.

Therefore the effect of clearing and burning, whether in Neolithic
Europe, Mexico and Honduras, or the Southern United States, was
to encourage a shifting economy and produce a scattered population.
On the whole, the occurrence of large permanent metropolitan cen-
ters in humid forest regions is usually due to something other than
the efficient local production of food.

Where men followed their flocks and herds instead of tilling the
soil it was likewise not possible to accumulate large sedentary con-
centrations of people. Because this type of culture neither enhanced
the environment as did irrigation, nor destroyed its cover as did
clearing, but rather utilized that cover directly, it was immediately
dependent upon favorable seasons and places. These nomads tended
likewise to be alert, aggressive, mobile, and accustomed to the sight
of blood. When continued drought or neighborly pressure threat-
ened they sought relief by movement—with or without raiding and
plundering. Much history has its explanation in this fact.

These early phases of human culture can speak to us only in
snatches, through their more durable remains and their effects on
the landscape. But the lesson they leaves is clear enough. Only
where the effort was made to maintain and improve the environment
was anything like an efficient and sustained relationship achieved.
Even here the balance could be destroyed, as when invaders ruined
388 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the ancient irrigation works of Asia Minor and when Spain wrecked
the efficient chinampa or lake-margin garden system of Mexico. But
where man attempted to take without return, as nomadic grazier or
burner of the forest, he created nothing for an invader to destroy
and was himself obliged to keep moving or settle for a declining level
of living.

With the invention of written records in the more stable population
centers the past can speak to us more explicitly, mind to mind.
We can at last begin to see, not merely how cultures operate, but
what gives them direction. Always there is the compelling frame-
work of immediate environment—the sunny valley of the ordered
Nile, the violence of the Tigris and Euphrates, the stormy northern
seas, abode of vast schools of fish and pathway to rich plunder, the
swampy ricelands of southern Asia, the lofty terraced potato fields
of the Incas. Man can no more avoid coming to terms with such
stern realities than he can dispense with his skin.

But these physical or natural conditions are only part of the system.
Interacting with them are the intangible values, ideals and beliefs of
the resident culture. Here we find the cultural basis not only of
character and personality, but even of technical advance. For as-
suredly what is esteemed will be achieved, in some measure at least.
If you would understand a people study their heroes, their art, and
their faith. “Let me sing the songs of a people and I care not who
makes their laws.”

Now a lot of these matters are intuitive in origin. Yet I for one am
inclined to set much store by the force of ideas more or less consciously
evolved—a process greatly favored by the invention of written sym-
bols. “Reading maketh a full man, conversation a ready man, and
writing an exact man.” There is something quite sobering in the
thought that men a century from now, perhaps 20 centuries from now,
reading what you have written, will be at liberty to pronounce you
what they will—a fool, a liar, a sage, or a man of taste.

Thanks to the record, we know many of the ideas that, evolving,
have shaped Western culture. Coming from the Greeks we have the
right of the free mind to inquire. From the Jews we have a two-edged
oift—the notion of consistent universal law along with the idea of man
apart from nature. There was also more than a little suggestion that
prosperity is among the rewards of virtue—a notion particularly
congenial to our Puritan and (dare I say so) our Quaker ancestors.

Christian thought laid the groundwork for universal brotherhood
and freedom, but by emphasizing the transient character of this earth
as a vale of tears did little to encourage our curiosity about it. Human
dignity as first asserted applied to the immortal soul rather than to in-
tellectual and political rights, although I suspect the first ultimately
made the last two possible. To this we probably owe science and the

THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 389

means to advance it. We should not be deceived by the fact that des-
potism can foster science to its own ends. Neither should we assume
that our own use of science is beyond scrutiny.

Indeed, I suggested in the beginning that we are employing science
in a somewhat peculiar way, for short- rather than long-term objec-
tives. ‘This is curious, for capitalism itself is based on the idea of
benefits postponed and Christian ethics upon ultimate rather than
immediate reward.

Since science is only possible because of confidence that the universe
is an expression of consistent processes or laws, we need not be sur-
prised that a culture which has enjoyed some of the fruits of science
should regard science itself with a great deal of confidence, or faith, if
you will. More than this, the faith in miracles dies hard. Having
discarded the idea of miracles outside of nature, we yet may choose
to expect them within nature.

For nature itself we retain the ancient Western idea that it exists
solely for man’s edification and use—a conviction that leads directly to
abuse. We have been accused of being materialistic. This is true
only in a sense, for our besetting sin is lack of respect for the materials
and the energy that sustain us. Still influenced by the old idea that
prosperity is the reward of virtue, we feel that prosperity is itself
a virtue. Poverty becomes a crime and by transfer those occupations
whose price is poverty fall into disrepute. But since some worthy in-
dividuals are clearly not responsible for their poverty we tend to
make the existence of poverty a crime of the culture. This leads us
to issue a blanket pardon to all who lack thrift and to encourage in
society a rate of fabrication and a kind of product that may distribute
benefits but which intensifies the pressure on our environment at the
expense of the future.

Our ideal then becomes a society where each has everything he
could possibly use. Fords expand into Lincolns, Chevrolets into
Cadillacs, and Lincolns and Cadillacs into God-knows-whats. We
maintain the system less by reserving our present income than by
mortgaging our future earnings, much of which comes from making
other things that people may not need, but may either desire or be
made to. At present, a high percentage of bank loans in the average
bank are for the time purchase of automobiles and these are not by
any means lifetime investments, as we know. Clearly the effect of
this trend is to distract our attention from thinking of how the en-
vironment will stand up under pressure through the long future.

Imagine if you will a species—any species—that suddenly increases
manyfold its range and speed of travel, the demands it makes upon
environment for material and energy, and that has found a way to
prolong life and lower the death rate while continuing to reproduce in
excess of that death rate. Imagine, too, that the resource base of this

390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

species does not increase relatively to its numbers. Then recall that
we are just such a species, Homo sapiens.

Actually we have brought about a paradox, so far as space is con-
cerned. As our numbers increase, so does our space per capita.
Each urban citizen is getting about double the space he had 50 years
ago, and so is each rural person—that is, each rural person who stays
in the country. The average farmer operates twice the acreage he
would have done 50 years ago. ‘The answer to our paradox lies in the
fact that urban growth is due to immigration from the country. The
new city man doesn’t get twice the space he had in the country—he
just gets twice the space he would have had if he had moved into the
city 50 years ago!

Very likely we are suffering from a population-pressure neurosis
much like that of the jaegers at the high point of the rodent cycle.
The fact that no great city maintains its numbers by its own birth
rate suggests this. We surrender our right to cross a street at will,
to keep poultry, and drink unchlorinated water from our own well.
We may spend an hour and a half traveling between home and work
each day.

Whatever the psychological effects of this on personality may be,
we can be sure of other effects that are not to be laughed off. The
intimate, sensitive contact between man and the resource base is
broken. Milk comes from wagons, other foods from shelves, and how
they get there is someone else’s business. If history gives us any
guide, the very congestion of numbers submerges the individual and
exacts its toll in the creeping loss both of liberty and sense of respon-
sibility. The chain of dependence upon technology lengthens and
with it the distance between the individual and the physical basis of
survival. Competition intensifies and can no longer be met by
moving away from it. Instead the individual seeks protection from
it in hiding within his specialty and then seeking to protect his
specialty by devices of organization and monopoly. Specialization is
no longer just a device to increase efficiency but a cultural refuge from
intolerable pressures as well.

I pass no judgment here on the ethics and esthetics of this situation.
I merely suggest that the problem is with us and we ought not blunder
further into it with our eyes closed. Unfortunately the issue is
clouded by a serious cleavage of opinion among those to whom we
look for guidance. Perhaps the prevailing idea is that both popula-
tion and our economy must continue to expand indefinitely or go
under. Sustaining this view is a confidence in the power of modern
science and technology to meet and conquer any shortages or other
obstacles that may develop. A familiar expression is that “the only
essential resource is human resourcefulness itself.”

PEATE: 1

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears

‘

EB

asodx

DTAIIO JSOlOY *S§

3 pue uole

al ie

ID’

I

3 4UDD91

‘eYSelV

Asojinoo ydeiZ0j0yg ‘jolja1 ysv{ Aq

Aq uUappliiaA0 sonids jo duinig °7

"OTe MYIUIOY J,
“M SS) Aq ydeis010yg *vUIOYR|YO “IAT uvipeurs) yynog “pie
Ajqeqoid ‘uotso1a Jo spotiod oo1yy Aq poieiedas sjlos Ino ‘T

PAREN

Sears

Smithsonian Report, 1958.

‘uvUT[NYy SS punupyY Aq ydeis
-O1OYg ‘a VUIT]D FO 19]D¥IeYD Iseq v ‘spoltod ,P008 ,, YIM possodsi9jUl d19M JYSNOIp Jo spotiad Jey. smoys susoyed JO (ssulI YIMOIs
jenuur) SBULI MOLIVU JO Solios JUaTINDeI a4, (756 Judy ‘uiayng sur1y-ae4.) “D'g 6S OF Yorq $903 p10901 BULI BuO] AOA 9Yy) ING

“E06 GL AY. SI UIBIq styy jo 9}ep 3utq1nd IU “UOILRAIISIX] oleaen ‘QACD) AWUINT ulOlt uleoq Iy-se[snoq e ‘L66C-dD ul pl0s01 Bull Ajrey

-

WNOZIuv ‘3AVD AWWNW 466%—d9

F
if
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 3

1. Women of the Sonjo tribe in Africa gardening with digging sticks. Photograph by

Oliver Milton. |

2. The rectangular patches, or milpas, have been cleared by fire and farmed repeatedly
until the soil is stripped by erosion, as in the lightest patches. Photograph by A. J.
Sharp.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 4

1. Mexican plowing with wooden plow and oxen.

2. Modern power machinery being used to clear, drain, and contour a New England farm
in one day. Photograph by the author.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 5

a
“a4 es ~~ te
Ms % 6 Slaw. os

1. Damage due to an engineering construction planned without attention to geology and

soil science.

2. Flood damage due to invasion of flood plain by industry. Photograph courtesy of

Sikorsky Co.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 6

1. Dust storm. Effect of plowing up semiarid grasslands. Photograph by the author.

2. Farm buried in drifts due to wind erosion from plowed fields. Photograph courtesy of
Soil Conservation Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 7

Rice terraces in the Philippines that have persisted for 1,200 years or more. Adjacent
forest is protected by religious taboos. Photograph by D. L. Sears.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 8

1. Example of good land use. Modern Danish farms. Photograph courtesy of Godsejer
M. Dinesen, Eskildstrup, Denmark.

2. Modern soil conservation measures in Pennsylvania. Photograph courtesy of Soil
Conservation Service.
PLATE 9

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears

"BIUIOFLED JO “OD [1O pxepurag fo

AgaqInoo t

{

deis0j0yg

°S

quowdoyja

AIP IYfed} pue ueqingns

Aq soAoid oduvio fo uoljonijsoq
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Sears PLATE 10

Bird’s-eye view of traffic construction in a metropolitan area. Photograph courtesy of

Standard Oil Co. of California.
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 391

In support we hear further of the sparsely settled Tropics, the vast
reaches of the sea, the present (United States) agricultural surplus,
the continuing progress of synthetic chemistry, and the possibilities
of energy from sun and atom. The extreme advocates have even been
known to say without a smile that overpopulation is not a menace
because we’ll soon have space travel. Anyone who has traveled
bumper to bumper trying to get out of a great metropolis on a holiday
or to get an inexpensive reservation on a transatlantic steamer on
short notice might reserve judgment on this latter point, especially
if he recalled that perhaps 120,000 people are added daily to the
world’s population. Incidentally, to provide adequate food, fiber,
and living space for these new guests would require the equivalent
of one Ohio county—some 400 square miles—added to the productive
land of our planet each 24 hours. This, of course, is not happening
and in consequence many, perhaps most, of those born in ancient and
overcrowded lands are doomed to lifetimes of want and privation.
In the past these lifetimes have been, on the average, brief, owing to
high infant mortality and the incidence of disease.

Recently, however, the effects of modern medicine and public health
measures have been extended over the earth. More people are now
living for a longer time. To some extent the production of food
in overcrowded nations has been improved, but this contributes to
greater numbers surviving rather than a better dietary for all.
Meanwhile there has been little adjustment, outside of Europe, in the
birth rate. So we see doubling of the population of Ceylon—an
inelastic island—in less than a score of years, and agonizing pressures
in another island, Puerto Rico. In our own country the net rate of
increase is actually higher than in the overpopulated Orient owing
to better sanitation, more food, more space, and other advantages
that protect us for the present. I suspect that we now have the best
chance we shall have to avoid the fate of older nations, for we still
have a freedom of choice and action that they have lost.

A convenient way to show the process in which modern man, no less
than his ancestors, is involved is by means of the following memoran-
dum. Using R for resources from the environment, P for population
in numbers of individuals in a given group, and C for the culture
of that group, we first write a fraction

R

Pp

This means plainly enough that the per capita share of resources, or

any of them (space, water, minerals, timber, etc.) , increases with their

abundance and decreases with rising population. But if we compare,

say, Brazil rich in resources and Denmark with few, we see that our
4925205926
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

expression is not complete. The thrifty, highly literate, self-disci-
plined Danes not only take excellent care of the resources they have
but make an effort to stabilize their population. In other words the
third factor, culture, is involved, too. We express this relationship
by using the symbol for function, or relationship, thus:

TAC)

This of course can be read forward or backward, for the f represents
interrelation. Doubtless in primitive society R was the big thing,
shaping culture and ruthlessly controlling population. With simple
arts man is highly dependent on the kind and amount of readily
available resources about him. But as culture advances new resources
and new methods of using them develop, while population adjusts
itself—or fails to do so—by virtue of cultural attitudes and practices.

Then in turn the culture responds and the ways in which it does so
would offer an intriguing approach to the study of man’s history. As
the fraction R/P increases, to what extent is this reflected in wealth,
leisure, creative work, and the good life? As it decreases, to what
extent do we have poverty, social injustice, abuse of power and human
disintegration? Such a study would not be easy. One would have to
avoid oversimplification and the tendency to judge other cultures in
terms of his own. He would confront the problem of rugged and
infertile Scotland with its perennial contributions of human great-
ness as well as that of the fair Pacific isles where the necessities of
life are more generously offered and where one may echo the words
“Happy the land that has no history !”

Yet he would have to scratch deep in both instances to get at the
truth. In doing so he would certainly see that some elements of
Scotch character are based upon self-discipline in relation to meager
resources. He would find that strict monogamy, combined with
the control of male numbers by clan warfare and later by emigration,
had afforded some measure of cultural control of population.

Among the less austere Polynesians he would find evidence of gen-
uine, if unrecorded, human greatness of a different order, and plenty
of concern with resources and population. The daily business of
getting food from the sea was not for weaklings. Even less was the
making and manning of great canoes that evidently put off from
time to time on long voyages that in the end peopled all the distant
habitable islands. And there is a persistent belief that the people
of the Pacific had some means of regulating population pressures
other than abortion, infanticide, cannibalism, and warfare. At any
rate, they developed a way of life that worked and was good enough
for us to envy even as we were trying to change it. How else can
we describe our efforts to get them to switch from grass skirts to
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 393

Mother Hubbards, to drink beer, and to buy things from us instead
of gathering them from sea and strand or making them from the
simple materials about them? I even suspect that the average in-
dividual, given a shot of truth serum and asked to describe the archi-
tecture of his own personal Heaven, would have less to say of a city
of jasper, golden streets, and gates of pearl than of blue seas, wav-
ing palms, gentle breezes, and gentle people.

One of the newer achievements of science is the means of judging
fairly cultures other than our own. How new this is may be judged
from the prevalence of chauvinism, assorted snobberies such as rac-
ism, and such durable terms as barbarian, gentile, provincial, and
heathen. Even among trained observers the traditional approach
has long been to judge other groups in terms of one’s own culture
as a standard. This might lead to contempt if not pity, or as in
the French glorification of the American Indian during the 17th
century, to a sentimental appraisal equally far from the truth. The
Hebrews who had, we must admit, a precious ethical concept at stake,
had harsh words for those who married outside the nation. Later
than this, renascent Europe dubbed Marco Polo a liar for his remark-
able account of Cathay. In Mexico, a tough old soldier, Bernal Diaz,
came nearer to clear and honest observation than his contemporaries,
bent as they were on erasing what they found.

But just as in geology a revolution came about through assuming
that the past was to be explained by processes going on today before
our eyes, so the study of man has been revolutionized by a simple as-
sumption. This is, in effect, the assumption that any culture has its
own internal logic that makes sense, so to speak, from the inside. Dif-
ferences, per se, are not disgraceful and certainly not pathological.
They are instead a means of understanding culture itself, to be ap-
proached with respect and in the context of environment, past and
present, physical, biological, and social. Working on this assumption
for not much more than a generation, anthropologists have given us
not only a great deal of information but a most useful perspective
on human cultures, including our own.

It follows that in working with any culture, no matter how generous
our intent or how advanced our own technical knowledge and practice
may be, we must approach the problem with an open mind. For each
culture, like each landscape, is in some respects unique, and has its own
values, its own rationale, and its own instrumentalities of change.

We are rather given, because of the dazzling achievements of our
own culture, to assume that what we regard as good for it must neces-
sarily be good for all. This iseven true as we look about us within our
own culture. We are inclined to fee! sorry for anyone who must drive
a small car instead of a big one, and who must take his vacation near
home instead of in Bermuda, and to consider such a situation as a flaw
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

inoursystem. But much moreso do we manifest this attitude toward
the “underdeveloped” and “underprivileged” of other lands. Perhaps
they do not feel sorry for themselves until we suggest that they should.
But whatever their needs, the doctor ought write no prescription until
he has seen and understood the patient.

We now have more than a hint that any culture with its system of
behavior and sanctions (ultimately expressed in esthetic forms) can
be viewed as a dynamic process moving toward reduction of internal
strain and external stress. To the extent that this is true it exemplifies
the universal trend of process in the inorganic and organic realms.
But while inorganic systems of matter and energy tend toward repose,
those that involve life exhibit a countertendency so long as energy is
available to keep them going. For, through the action of plants in
storing solar energy, they have developed a peculiar pattern of flow
and transformation—a kind of postponed benefit approximating what
is known as a “steady state.”

This amounts to a situation in which solar energy is fixed into or-
ganic compounds instead of being immediately dissipated as heat and
so becoming “bound,” that is, unavailable for further work under ex-
isting conditions. Bound energy is somewhat analogous to water that
has fallen from a high level to such a low one that no further fall is
possible. The phenomenon is expressed by saying that the entropy of
our system—earth-sun—is increasing as energy flows from the sun’s
high intensity to the earth’s low. Except as energy is intercepted and
stored in such a way that it can be made to do work, it becomes bound.
It may be intercepted by the evaporation of water into the atmos-
phere or the creation of atmospheric high-pressure areas. But when
the water gets back to sea level and winds have blown themselves out,
such energy becomes bound at last.

By comparison, energy impinging on living communities and stored
in carbon compounds sustains a variety of forms of life, promoting
their individual and group organization, enhancing the capacity of
the habitat to sustain life, regulating the economy of water movement
and chemical transformations—in short, doing work but maintaining
the system at a high level of efficiency at the same time. It suggests
an industrial plant plowing back income into maintenance.

Although animals, including man, are consumers of energy-bearing
carbon compounds, they can contribute to maintaining the balance of
the system so long as they do not disrupt it. Insects pollinate plants
and many animals disseminate them. Mineral nutrients are dis-
tributed, as for example when hordes of salmon bring scarce nutrient
salts from the sea inland when they come up to spawn in regions that,
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 395

like our own Northwest, are deficient in iodine and calcium. Beaver
dams, retarding the flow of water, tend to equalize it through the year
and so enhance its ability to sustain life on land before it returns to
the sea. Burrowing animals, vertebrate and invertebrate, aerate and
enrich the soil. And so it goes, exemplifying the principle that as life
has developed it has achieved an ever-increasing role in modifying the
earth. But this it does by virtue of delaying—not reversing, as some
would have it—the relentless increase of entropy in our system. In
this process lies the margin of life over death.

Now man, at the apex of evolution, is the inheritor and beneficiary
of this magnificent pattern, He has at his disposal not merely the
fruits of today’s biological activity, but of vast, though finite, stores of
organic compounds formed by living communities in the past and now
available as fossil fuel—coal, oil, and gas. He has had at his disposal,
too, fertile soils formed and stabilized through preceding ages. More
than this, he has, in modern science, the means to comprehend his
position, as well as to intensify his use of what he has found, and
devise a multitude of new uses for substances both familiar and
previously unknown.

If we may for the moment draw upon the poetic insight of ancient
times expressed in the third chapter of Genesis, the promise of the
serpent has been fulfilled to a measure undreamed. “Your eyes shall
be opened and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.” Humanity
now has, as never before, the means of knowing the consequences of
its actions and the dreadful responsibility for those consequences.
Powerful as are the means that science affords in the way of relieving
the human body and mind of effort, human beings are still confronted
with the necessity of making decisions. And debate as we will as to
the freedom of our choices, we have no better means at present than to
designate this problem of choice as a moral problem. Even the indi-
vidual who proclaims himself amoral has made a moral choice, that is
a choice of values as well as means.

Now values are qualitative and intuitive, largely, and hence assumed
to be beyond the reach of quantitative science and none of its affair. So
we have the spectacle of human life now being transformed by dy-
namics thought to be quite independent of all the traditional controls
that have been so painfully worked out through thousands of years of
history, prehistory, and even prehuman evolution. It is like a vehicle
of tremendous speed and power whose steering mechanism has no
functional connection with it, or, at best, one not designed to control it.

The dazzling success of quantitative exact science as an instrument
makes matters worse by throwing into deep shadow those aspects of
human experience that cannot be expressed by formula and diagram.
This is not new. The inherent tendency of every human group has
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

always been to seek for some kind of order, and there is magic in
formulas.

One fact ought not escape notice. Those who have explored most
profoundly the field of measurement, calculation, and analysis which
is the cornerstone of modern technology have been the first and most
vocal group to remind us of what I have called our moral obligation.
The physicists and mathematicians have risked social and political dis-
favor and in some instances incurred its penalties for their insistence
that man must be the master, not the slave, of his own technology. And
I may add that the distinction of these Condon lectureships has been
vastly enhanced by recognition of one such individual, Dr.
Oppenheimer.

Perhaps the mathematician understands more clearly than most of
us that any enterprise of the human mind must start with certain
assumptions. Perhaps, too, mathematicians (leaving skill aside) excel
chiefly in the clarity with which they formulate their assumptions and
the systematic rigor with which they examine and reexamine them and
follow out their consequences. Unless I am mistaken, the assumptions
with which mathematics began had their roots deep in human
experience.

To what degree can we apply this model to the ecology of man? I
make the initial assumption that it is worth trying. Reviewing what
has been presented in the earlier part of these lectures, it is clear that
man is an expression of an infinitely long process. He is not only a part
of that process, but has achieved a unique power to modify it, is affected
by what he does in that respect, and is, beyond all previous degree, now
able to know what he is doing.

Here, then, comes the first great choice of assumptions. Shall we
assume that the human enterprise is worth perpetuating so long as
cosmic conditions permit, which is likely to be a long time indeed?
Three choices are possible—disregard, denial, and affirmation, each
fraught with fateful consequences. Our present culture is a confused
expression of all three and could do with some of the discipline of the
mathematician.

It would be interesting, if space permitted, to explore the extensive
realm of those who disregard or deny. Not all who choose to disregard
do so from indifference. Not all who deny lack human compassion.
And a considerable portion of both confuse the issue by presenting the
world with issue of their own to face its assumed futility in generations
to come!

We are left, then, to choose the third assumption—that the human
adventure is worth its salt. Not a bad idea, either in theory or prac-
THE ECOLOGY OF MAN—SEARS 397

tice, as a basic value for responsible—that is, moral—human conduct.
It is the only choice that justifies serious attention to the ecology of
man and demands its skillful application to human affairs. It implies
concern for mankind in the longest perspective of time. Unfortu-
nately it still does not commit us to an equal concern for all men of all
cultures everywhere. The mandate to survive has often been con-
strued as warrant to eliminate or subordinate others.

Here we find ourselves treading near an ancient pitfall, as dangerous
today as ever. If we deny full humanity to others, we are in a poor
position to claim it for ourselves, let alone for our remote descendants.
There is the further and very practical consideration that as in evolu-
tion no species of plant or animal has ever had its own way completely,
so in history no culture has succeeded in doing so. Now that the world
community is ever more tightly linked by new powers of travel, com-
munication, and access to knowledge, it is less likely than ever that any
group, ethnic or cultural, will ever have its way without mutual con-
cession and, ultimately, mutual understanding and sympathy.

Indeed the whole lesson of evolutionary history demonstrates that
the power of life over nonlife lies not in uniformity, but in diversity
within unity. Just so the richness of any human community lies in
the diversity of personalities, capacities, and interests within the unity
of community spirit. To live is to live and let live.

Indeed it may be that in this old and battered saying we may find a
clue to the effective use of what we can learn from ecology. If we de-
sire to preserve our own kind throughout the long future, we must
preserve a decent solicitude for life in all its manifestations, for the
environment that makes life possible, and for those magnificent proc-
esses within the environment that have made it what it is.

Manifestly we cannot get the benefits of ecology merely by leaving
matters to the specialist, as we do so largely with other sciences.
Rather we must apply the knowledge of the specialist to matters of
common consent to our patterns of living. This means that we must
to some degree share the knowledge of the ecologist, not so much in
details, as in its general aspects. To do this requires a new emphasis
in much that we learn throughout the schools. It calls for no new
subjects, but rather a reinterpretation of what is now taught, to make
clear man’s place in nature and his responsibility to guide the new
forces he has invoked.

Meanwhile time speeds by. We need not wait for a new and en-
lightened generation. Each of us can begin quite simply by learning
to look about himself, wherever he may be. Let him learn to know his
own environment, its history and its components, living and inorganic.
Let him conceive of himself, not as a detached watcher, but as an
inseparable part of what is around him. And then go on from there.
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

REFERENCES FOR FURTHER READING

BATES, MARSTON.
1952. Where winter never comes. A study of man and nature in the Tropics.
Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York.
This book is a nontechnical presentation of the problems of man in
the Tropics studied from the ecological and cultural approaches.
Tuomas, WILLIAM L., Jr. (Editor).
1956. Man’s role in changing the face of the earth. An international sym-
posium under the cochairmanship of Carl Sauer, Marston Bates, and
Lewis Mumford. Sponsored by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research. University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
The reader will find in this volume authoritative papers together
with discussion of them by the participants in the symposium on most
of the facets of the problems of man and his environment. The papers
include selected bibliographies which will enable the reader to explore
the subject further.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.
The Sea Otter’

By Kari W. KENYON
United Siates Fish and Wildlife Service

[With 6 plates]

IN GENERAL FORM the sea otter “nhydra lutris resembles the weasel
and river otter, of which animals it is a large relative. The male
attains a weight of 85 pounds, the female about 65 pounds; the young
at birth weigh from 3 to 5 pounds. It is peculiar among members of
its family, the Mustelidae, in having deserted dry land and fresh
water to take up a marine life. Among marine mammals it is pecu-
liar in its adaptation to the sea. It does not possess an insulating
layer of blubber but is protected from the chill of North Pacific
waters by a blanket of air trapped among the fine and closely packed
fibers of its inch-long delicate fur. Unlike the river otter and fur
seal, the sea otter has but little protective coating of guard hair.
The fine guard hairs present add to its beauty but do not offer much
protection to the soft underfur. Unlike other marine mammals, the
sea otter has never taken to the open sea. It usually feeds in shallow
water from 5 to 50 feet in depth. Its food consists primarily of
such sedentary forms as sea urchins, rock oysters, mussels, a variety
of snail-like mollusks and, in California, abalones. Occasionally
fish and octopus are eaten.

Although the sea otter is not ideally adapted to its marine environ-
ment, it is far more at ease in the water than ashore. The flipper-
like hind feet are clumsy on land and the long flexible body, some-
what like a liquid-filled bag, is poorly suited to walking. When otters
haul out to sleep or preen, they seldom venture more than a few feet
from the water.

Otters come ashore in greatest numbers when storm waves make
food diving difficult. When the weather is calm they usually sleep
on the surface of the sea, simply pulling a strand of kelp over their
bodies, resting the head on the chest and placing their forepaws over
their eyes. But often in the Aleutians during calm summer weather,

1Printed by permission of The Fauna Preservation Society, with some revision, from
Oryx, vol. 4, No. 3, November 1957.

399
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

when the tide is low at night, they haul out at favorite spots to sleep.
Mothers with young frequently bring their pups ashore about sun-
down to remain on the rocks until daybreak.

In the Aleutians at least, the breeding season is not well defined.
Newly born pups appeared as numerous in early December of 1957
as they had been in the spring and summer of previous years. Pres-
ent indications are, as early sea otter hunters reported, that breeding
is continuous throughout the year. Mating takes place in the water
and the mated pair may remain together for several days. During
this period they make food dives side by side. They also choose a
favorite rock where they haul out in close company to sleep and
preen between feeding periods. This postmating association is ap-
parently more desired by the male than the female. Since a male
appears to require more food than the female, he sometimes leaves
the resting rock to dive for food nearby, while the female remains
behind to preen. In several instances I watched the female quietly
slip into the water and leave her mate while he was beneath the sur-
face. On discovering her absence, the male became quite excited
and began a systematic search of all likely rocks, rising half out of
the water to look onto them or actually climbing up to search their
tops. In the cases I observed, the female was successful in eluding
her mate.

Like other marine mammals the sea otter bears but one pup at a
time, but, unlike most of them, the mother otter gives her offspring
constant and careful attention over a relatively long period, probably
until it is nearly a year old. For several months the pup receives
most of its nourishment from its mother’s two abdominal nipples,
though at an early age it may also beg for and receive parts of sea
urchins and mollusks that its mother is eating. She carries her pup
on her chest while she herself swims on her back. On this floating
platform the pup nurses, sleeps, and receives almost constant preening
from its mother’s mobile and sensitive forepaws. The mother leaves
her pup only when she dives for food and a food dive seldom lasts
more than a minute. While the mother is below the surface the pup
usually sleeps, buoyed up by the air enclosed in its long, clean, dry
fur. After each such dive the mother swims to her pup’s side, where
she eats the food that she has carried to the surface enclosed by a fore-
leg and a fold of loose skin across her chest. If her pup has drifted
with the wind, she takes it onto her chest and returns it to the area
in which she wishes to feed.

Sea otter pups are playful and, if a mother is feeding near sheltered
kelp-covered rocks, the pup will often play in the gentle surge among
the slippery strands. Once I watched a pup working its way around
the rocks until it was hidden from its mother’s view. Suddenly it
missed her and uttered a harsh, frightened cry. Confused by the echo
THE SEA OTTER—KENYON 401

of the sound, the mother screamed in distress and swam frantically
about. Both animals appeared almost hysterical by the time the
mother discovered her wandering offspring; then she clasped it to
her chest and swam rapidly away from shore to preen and fondle it
before beginning to feed in more open water.

In November and December of 1957 we kept a mother with a new-
born pup in an artificial pool on Amchitka. At first the mother was

EES

Fic. 1.—Sea otter, sketched from life. Amchitka Island, Alaska, 1957.

possessive and defensive, clinging constantly to her pup. Within 3
days she accepted our presence and while she was eating would allow
her pup to eat small pieces of fish from our hands. However, she
watched intently and when I took the pup aside to weigh it, dropped
her food, screamed, and standing on her hind legs with her forefeet
against me attempted to grasp her pup in her teeth. She demonstrated
no inclination, however, to bite me. After receiving her pup she
refused for some time to let it go again.

One night a blizzard loosened the latch on the enclosure door and
it blew open. Leaving her sleeping pup on some dry bedding the
mother ventured forth and in the early morning I found her swimming
in the sea nearby, calling shrilly to her still sleeping pup. After
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

getting a helper, I awakened the pup, which immediately answered
its mother. She promptly dashed ashore and into waiting hands
which returned her to her pup. Early sea otter hunters recounted that
if a pup was taken from its mother she would follow, screaming, after
the hunting boat. On several occasions at Amchitka I have seen
mother otters carrying their dead pups for a number of hours. That
a strong maternal instinct continues until the young is nearly fully
grown is frequently observed.

Late one summer afternoon on Amchitka Island in the Aleutians
I watched a mother with a large pup, probably a yearling, hauled out
on a rock below my hide. The pup investigated the rocky shelf, then
went to the water’s edge as if to swim. The mother watched intently
and just as it appeared about to leave the rock, she rolled forward,
grasped a hind flipper in her teeth and drew the surprised youngster
back beside her.

PAST HISTORY

Sea otter fur was held in high esteem among Chinese of noble
birth from early times. The second expedition of Vitus Bering, which
sailed from Kamchatka in 1741, opened to the fur hunters of Russia,
the promyshlenniki, the vast fur resources of Alaska. To Bering’s
starving men, marooned for the winter on the beaches of the island
now known as Bering Island, sea otter flesh became a primary means
of sustenance. The rich furs brought home by survivors of this tragic
adventure soon stimulated others to seek fortunes among foggy, storm-
beaten Alaska islands. Sea otters, being by nature trusting, were
rapidly decimated, but the rugged nature of these islands and the
frequent violent storms offered more natural protection than in milder
latitudes along the Pacific coast.

The human deluge, which to this day is swelling the populations
of Alaska and the northwest coast of the United States, received
additional impetus in 1779 when the ships of Capt. James Cook
dropped anchor at Macao after having visited Nootka Sound, Van-
couver Island. Cook’s crew suddenly discovered that skins which
they were using as bedclothing and garments, and which they had
purchased cheaply from the Indians, were worth thousands of dollars.
Thereafter the soft fur of the sea otter was the objective of many
of those who explored the coast and islands of the eastern North
Pacific Ocean and, in 1785, the brig Sea Otter became the first ship
to engage in the sea otter trade on the Pacific northwest coast.

Under the direction of white fur hunters, sea otters were merci-
lessly pursued, sometimes by teams of Indians in cances; in more
remote areas by white hunters in light skiffs carried to the otter grounds
in larger ships. On bleak shores men waited for weeks among the
rocks to shoot any otter that came within rifle range. Others sta-
THE SEA OTTER—KENYON 403

tioned themselves at the tops of giant tripods, erected near favorite
feeding or resting areas. Neither mothers nor pups were spared.
A pup skin brought about $60, the skins of adults $200 to $300. So
highly was the sea otter prized that by the end of the 19th century
it had been hunted almost to extinction. The otters living off the
western coasts of the United States were in fact thought to be extinct.
However, in 1938 a group of 94 sea otters was discovered near Mon-
terey, Calif. A reported 1957 count by Dr. Boolootian of 644 otters
between Point Conception and Carmel Bay might indicate that at
least 1,000 otters now inhabit the coastal waters of California. None
have yet been reported from Oregon. A recent report, in August
1958, of sea otters seen on the outer Washington coast, although not
confirmed, sounds encouraging. Recently observers have reported sea
otters from British Columbia waters but their identification has not
so far been confirmed. In 1929 a sea otter was taken in Kyuquot
Sound. This is the last authentic occurrence.

In 1786 the Pribilof Islands were discovered by Russian fur hunters
and their history demonstrates the course of thoughtless exploitation.
In the first year of occupation as many as 5,000 sea otters were killed.
By 1811 they were scarce animals and during the next 30 years were
virtually exterminated. The last recorded skin in the Pribilofs was
taken from an otter found dead in 1892. Of this once-thriving
colony only scattered bones remain.

Fortunately some sea otters remained in the Aleutian chain of is-
lands and this remnant received protection in 1911, under a treaty
whose main purpose was to save the North Pacific fur seals. The
seal populations have rapidly recovered; the recovery of the sea
otters, on the other hand, has been slow.

SEA OTTER LIFE STUDIES

Some years ago the United States Fish and Wildlife Service de-
cided to make a detailed study of the sea otter, both in the wild and in
captivity. It was also hoped that isolated parts of its former range,
such as the Pribilof Islands, might be restocked from remote places
where high populations now exist. As the sea otter seldom ventures
far from land, natural dispersal takes place slowly.

The place chosen for the studies was Amchitka Island which, except
for its isolation and its distance of nearly 3,000 miles by the usual
route from headquarters at Seattle, was an ideal place for the work.
The island is approximately 40 miles long and from 1 to 4 miles wide,
with a coastline of about 120 miles. The climate is windswept and
fogbound—quite miserable by human standards, but apparently most
appealing to sea otters. The otter population appears to be at, or very
near, its natural maximum. As with deer on a heavily grazed range,
a hard winter may leave many animals dead in its wake. Recent esti-
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

mates, based on sample field counts, place the population there at
between 4,000 and 6,000.

The first stage of the work on the sea otter was done in the late
1940’s by Robert D. Jones, manager of the Aleutian Wildlife Refuge.
He found that the otters were very difficult to keep in captivity, and
as a result of his recommendations, Dr. Donald Stulken and Dr. C. M.
Kirkpatrick, both of Purdue University, went to Amchitka with a
Fish and Wildlife team to study the physiology of sea otters and
their response to conditions in captivity. Meanwhile Dr. Robert
Rausch, parasitologist, of the Arctic Health Research Centre, con-
ducted studies of animals found dead on the beaches during winter
“die offs.” As a result of all this work considerable knowledge was
accumulated, and three captive otters were finally brought to Seattle
by Mr. Jones in 1954. They were in excellent condition upon arrival
but unfortunately succumbed when transferred to the National Zoo-
logical Park in Washington, D.C.

In 1955 a Fish and Wildlife team, including the author and under
the leadership of Ford Wilke, captured sea otters at Amchitka and
liberated 16 of them at Otter Island in the Pribilofs. Unexpectedly
frigid weather conditions, with ice floes, complicated by the weakened
condition of the captive animals, probably prevented their survival.

Work on Amchitka continues. During World War IT the island
had been used as a harbor and air base and it offers today disintegrat-
ing but usable facilities for our field studies. From the front porch
of our salvaged quarters on clear days we watch the sea otters as they
dive for food near the mouth of Constantine Harbor or haul out to
sleep and preen on the small rocky islets there. But often, during
summer months especially, this place of observation becomes useless.
Fog banks move in about the island and remain for weeks at a stretch.
In order to observe the otters closely it has been necessary to construct
a hide on a cliff above a favorite feeding and resting area. From this
vantage point, with binoculars and telescope, we may watch the otters
on all but the foggiest of days.

In addition to studies on Amchitka a comprehensive aerial popu-
lation survey in Alaska was undertaken by the Fish and Wildlife
Service in the fall of 1957. Unfortunately, remote areas in the
Aleutians, where a considerable part of the sea otter population ap-
pears to exist, could not be covered because of adverse weather. How-
ever, Dr. Calvin J. Lensink, who took a leading part in this project
under the Branch of Wildlife Research, prepared total sea otter
population estimates which indicate that sea otters have now re-
populated a large part of their former range and that their numbers
are increasing and spreading at an encouraging rate. Certainly
the number in Alaskan waters can be placed conservatively at 80,000
animals. Dr. Lensink plans to publish a detailed report of his work.
THE SEA OTTER—KENYON 405

Sven Waxell, second in command of Vitus Bering’s shipwrecked
srew, recorded that when they first reached shore on Bering Island
the sea otters were quite tame but became wild after being hunted.
It is not surprising, then, that the unmolested otters at Amchitka
are not particularly wild, but we were surprised at the degree to which
a wild otter could be tamed. In November of 1957 we began tossing
fish heads to a young adult male that habitually loitered near our
fish-cleaning platform. Within a few days he would come close to
the beach at our call and within a week would come to the water’s
edge to take fish heads from our hands. In another week he became
a pest, walking boldly up to us and demanding food. Without the
need of a net we caught him and placed a metal tag in the web of his
hind flipper. Not in the least upset by this indignity he demanded his
fish before returning to the water. Wild sea otters never eat on land,
and so our “wild” pet often returned with difficulty over cobbles and
boulders to the sea while attempting to walk on three legs, clasping
fish heads to his chest with the fourth.

THE SEA OTTER IN CAPTIVITY

The sea otter is a most appealing animal in captivity as well as in
the wild. Although individual characteristics of the animals differ,
we find that many of them are very tractable and will quietly take
food from our hands within a few minutes of capture. On the other
hand, a yearling female that we caught in September 1955 was so
shy that nearly a week passed before she could be induced to take
food that we held out to her. When first captured, she leaned
against the back of her cage in a half-sitting position watching our
movements wide-eyed, as if in astonishment. When we brought her
sea urchins and fish she placed her forepaws on her cheeks and
hissed in a very catlike way, or pushed the proffered food away with
her paws. After she became accustomed to us she readily took food
from our hands, never offering to bite with her strong canine teeth.
This animal is now in excellent health at the Woodland Park Zoo
in Seattle. By the spring of 1957 she had nearly reached adult size
and appears well adapted to life in captivity. In December of 1957
we captured a young male on Amchitka which shared her Seattle
quarters until he died in September of 1958. Acute hemorrhagic
enteritis appeared to be the immediate cause of death.

Sea otters require a large amount of food, which poses a difficult
problem when captives are kept at Amchitka. In order to supply
the minimum of 6 to 8 pounds of fresh fish required daily by each
adult otter, a dory must be launched, nets set and pulled daily. In the
stormy, chilly winds that sweep the Bering Sea such a project is a
major undertaking when it must be conducted on a sustained basis.
Our captive female in Seattle weighs 39 pounds and eats approxi-
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

mately 10 pounds of filleted fish, octopus, and clams each day. The
male weighed 64 pounds and ate about 15 pounds daily. ‘Thus, food
intake amounts to about one-quarter of the body weight for each
animal daily. Sea otters are often temperamental and will suddenly
refuse to eat one kind of food which previously was preferred, while
eating ravenously something entirely different. Dried or canned
foods have been consistently rejected. One day, however, a zoo of-
ficial told a visitor, preparing to toss a slice of bread to the sea otters,
not to do it because the animals would not eat bread. The visitor
disregarded instructions and, surprisingly, the otter ate the bread.

The use of a rock, held on the chest of an otter, as a base against
which to break the hard shells of mollusks, has often been described.
When rocks and clams were placed in our captive’s pool, she gathered
them from the bottom and, holding the clams between her forepaws,
banged them against the rock resting on her chest until the shells broke,
thus confirming at close range what had previously been observed only
at a distance.

The manual dexterity of the sea otter is well illustrated by the unique
habit described above, but we found our captives ingenious in other
respects. The drain in the zoo pool was covered by metal mesh which
fitted snugly in place. This the otter promptly removed when she
entered the pool. Apparently the dark hole beneath fascinated her.
Since food scraps plugged the open drain, her keeper secured a band
of strap iron over the mesh with a bolt that projected above it. Un-
daunted, the sea otter pounded the bolt with a rock until she succeeded
in dislodging it. Rocks have now been removed from the pool, for in
addition to attacking the drain she whiled away idle hours by pound-
ing the edges of the pool until the cement was considerably damaged.

The problem of adjusting sea otters to captivity so that they may be
successfully transplanted is a challenging one and we still face many
difficulties. Captive animals, when held in small cages and deprived
of free access to water, often die of enteritis, pneumonia, or infections
of the extremities. The difficulty of keeping their soft fur clean and in
waterproof condition is complicated by the fact that they like to eat
while lying on their backs and that their natural food contains an
abundance of slimy fluid. Unless adequate facilities are provided
for washing, their fur quickly becomes matted with foreign matter.
The animals soon become wet to the skin, chilling results, and, after
several hours of distress, death usually follows. After traveling by
air in cramped cages the two otters brought to the Seattle zoo required
a week of painstaking care before their fur regained its waterproof
insulating qualities. Frequent indoor warm-water baths followed by
periods of drying in heaps of shredded paper were necessary to prevent
chilling. Doses of antibiotics during this critical period prevented
the usual infections. |
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 1

1. While feeding, a mother sea otter allows her young pup to float on the surface. This
mother has just finished eating and is about to grasp her pup in her forelegs to place it

on her chest.

2. A mother sea otter preens her pup’s fur while the pup nurses from her abdominal nipples.
Usually a pup nurses while its mother floats on her back, but occasionally, especially in
late afternoon, the mother takes her pup ashore where she preens and dries its fur and
allows the pup to nurse.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 2

1. During an afternoon resting period a mother sea otter carries her sleeping pup on her
chest.

2. While heavy storm waves pound outer reefs off Amchitka beaches, otters frequently re-
tire to sheltered beaches where they sleep. This old male has just been aroused and is
about to plunge into the water.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 3

1. Bill Golley, an Aleutian native, has just netted a sea otter. Cal Lensink helps him land
it on a slippery kelp-covered rock. The battered hulk in the background is the Crown
Reefer which was driven on this reef during a storm in 1946.

2. A newly captured 70-pound male otter is carried from the beach across tundra to the road.
Otters have favorite hauling grounds where they can be approached and netted while
they sleep. Although they frantically fight to free themselves from the net when first
captured, they quickly accept captivity and become tame.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 4

1. A wild otter accepts a fish head from the hand of Robert Krear. This otter loitered
near our fish-cleaning platform where he was given fish scraps. He soon learned to leave
the water and follow us to beg for food.

2. A captive female otter pounds a clam held in her paws against one resting on her chest
in order to break the shell. A rock may also be held on the chest for use as an anvil
on which to break hard-shelled mollusks.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 5

1. A captive sea otter squints as she pounds a clam on the cement edge of her
pool. Although the whiskers grow long in captivity, they are characteristically abraded
short on wild animals.

2. An adult sea otter, his forepaws pillowing his head, rests among rocks of an Amchitka
beach.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Kenyon PLATE 6

1, A mother otter clasps her week-old pup to her chest as both stare in surprise at the
photographer.

2. Adult sea otters.
THE SEA OTTER—KENYON 407

During 1957 field studies on Amchitka we constructed a large
artificial pool with a supply of running fresh water. In this we found
that otters remained healthy and quickly adjusted to a feeding sched-
ule. But results were disastrous when we attempted to transport them
by air, as we had previously done successfully. They became highly
excited when suddenly transferred from the pool and large enclosure
to small traveling cages and died as a result of lung hemorrhages after
a few hours of air travel. This was an unexpected development, since
other animals previously carried by air had not died from this cause.
Even tranquilizers failed to remedy the situation.

Through our study program, which embraces the keeping of otters
in captivity and understanding their habits in the wild, we hope to
enlarge our knowledge of their ecology, life history, and populations.
We are gratified to know that the sea otter is safe from extermination
and hope that it may some day take its place with the northern fur
seal as a valuable and renewable natural resource, under a carefully
controlled program.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.

492520—_59——27
mores

Joe se tie
cae

Screwworm Eradication: Concepts and Re-

search Leading to the Sterile-Male Method

By EK. F. KNIPLING

Entomology Research Division, Agricultural Research Service
United States Department of Agriculture

[With 6 plates]

A NEW APPROACH to insect control is now being applied in the
Southeastern United States to deal with the screwworm, Callitroga
hominivorax (Cqrl.), one of our most damaging pests of livestock and
game. ‘The procedure involves the use of atomic radiations to produce
sexual sterility in millions of insects reared in an insect factory. The
sterile serewworm fiies are then released against their own kind to
defeat the primary purpose for their existence—reproduction.

This unique insect-control program is being conducted by the Ani-
mal Disease Eradication Division, Agricultural Research Service, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Florida Livestock
Board. It is the culmination of 8 years of pioneering research,
both basic and applied, which was conducted by a group of Department
of Agriculture entomologists with the Insects Affecting Man and
Animals Research Branch of the Entomology Research Division.

Utilizing knowledge of the effects of atomic radiations on insects
and of screwworm life history, habits, and ecology, a method of bio-
control has been developed which probably represents the ultimate in
precision and efficiency. The research leading to this development has
been described in a number of publications: Bushland and Hopkins
(1951 and 1953), Baumhover et al. (1955), Lindquist (1955), and
Knipling (1955). It will not be necessary, therefore, to discuss the
details. fowever, it seems desirable to review the most significant
features of the investigations and the control program now under way.
It seems appropriate also to speculate on the place that the sterile-male
method might have in the control of other major insect pests.

SCREWWORM BIOLOGY, ECOLOGY, ECONOMIC SIGNIFICANCE, AND
METHODS OF CONTROL

The screwworm fly (pl. 1, fig. 1) is an obligatory parasite of warm-
blooded animals. Eggs (pl. 1, fig. 2) numbering 200 to 300 are de-

409
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

posited in a compact mass on wounds of these animals. The larvae
hatch in less than 24 hours. They begin feeding on the tissues and
reach maturity in about 5 days (pl. 2, fig.1). The larvae then leave
the wound, drop to the ground, and enter the soil for pupation (pl. 2,
fig. 2), emerging as adults in about 8 days during warm weather.

Larvae cause severe destruction of tissues, producing a straw-colored
and often a bloody discharge from the wound. An infestation attracts
more screwworm flies, resulting in multiple infestations consisting of
several hundred to several thousand larvae of all sizes (pl. 6). Feed-
ing by the large number of larvae will kill the host unless the infesta-
tion is destroyed and the wound is treated with protective remedies.
Several screwworm smears and other preparations are in use to treat
or prevent infestations. These remedies and good livestock-manage-
ment practices which reduce the number of susceptible wounds mini-
mize losses. In spite of these control efforts, the insect causes losses
in the United States which are estimated to vary from $20 million to
$40 million annually. An additional loss of game animals, particu-
larly deer, cannot be measured in terms of dollars.

The screwworm is largely a subtropical insect. Cold winter weather
pushes the infestations into warmer areas. In the Southwest the
winter survival area in south Texas usually does not exceed 30,000 to
40,000 square miles. In the Southeast, during normal winters, the
survival line is about as far north as Gainesville, Fla. In the spring
there is an upsurge of screwworm flies, and the pest spreads rapidly.
The rate of natural spread northward may be as much as 25 to 35
miles per week. In addition to natural spread the insect often be-
comes established early in the season outside of its normal range
through shipment of infested animals and increases to damaging
levels before frost.

DEVELOPMENT OF CONCEPTS AND RESEARCH LEADING TO THE
STERILE-MALE TECHNIQUE FOR CONTROL

A. W. Lindquist (unpublished reports, 1935) obtained data which
showed that the total number of screwworm flies in the environment
is low in comparison with most insects. This significant feature in
screwworm population dynamics has an important bearing on the
use of sterile males for their control. Melvin and Bushland (1936)
developed a method of rearing the insect on an artificial medium in
the laboratory, which provided a vital link in the chain of events
leading to the sterile-male technique for control.

The possibilities of screwworm control by utilizing some natural
or induced mutant characteristic that would not be detrimental to
the insect when reared in the laboratory but would place it at a
disadvantage in nature were first considered by the writer in 1937.
Of the possible genetic approaches, the one that seemed to warrant
SCREWWORM ERADICATION—KNIPLING 4\1

most promise was the use of sterile males for release among a natural
population of flies. Several entomologists and geneticians had dem-
onstrated that X-rays would cause sexual sterility in insects.

This approach to screwworm control was proposed to a number
of scientists, but little enthusiasm for its posssibilities was gener-
ated. The war years, which led to emphasis on medical entomology
problems, delayed investigations. However, following the war more
serious thought was given to the initiation of research on the prob-
lem. Survey records of past years and published data on screw-
worm incidence, particularly in the Southeast, were studied for the
purpose of estimating the number of flies present in an area dur-
ing periods of low population density. Potential costs of rearing the
insect in terms of millions per week were calculated. ‘Theoretical
trends in the screwworm population were calculated on the assump-
tion that it might be feasible to dominate the wild male population
with sexually vigorous but sterile males. There were many unknowns
in screwworm behavior, ecology, population dynamics, and reaction
to irradiation, and it was recognized that failure of any one of sev-
eral seemingly plausible assumptions could demonstrate the imprac-
ticability of the method. However, the results of the theoretical cal-
culations were too impressive to ignore.

The decision to commit limited research funds to this approach
was made following communications in 1950 with H. J. Muller of
Indiana University, noted geneticist, Nobel prize winner, and author-
ity on the effects of X-rays on organisms. When the general pian
for screwworm eradication by the release of sexually sterile males was
outlined to him, he responded with enthusiasm and encouragement
and also offered advice on procedures to follow in determining the
effects of X-rays on the insect.

A definite research program on the problem was initiated in 1950.
The work was undertaken at the Kerrville, Tex., laboratory, under
the able direction of R. C. Bushland. Before the X-ray studies were
begun, G. W. Eddy, then with the Kerrville laboratory, made some
observations on the frequency of mating among females of the screw-
worms. These observations, later confirmed by Bushland, indicated
that the females were monogamous in mating habits. At that time
the frequency of mating by the females was regarded as a vital point
in the potential feasibility of effecting control by the sterile-male
approach. Information obtained since that time, however, indicates
that although multiple mating may reduce the effectiveness of sterile
males, this is not necessarily a limiting factor in the successful appli-
cation of this method.

Bushland and Hopkins (1951) established that screwworm males
could be made sterile by exposing pupae near maturity to 2,500 roent-
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

gens from X-rays. Sterility in the female resulted at a dosage of 5,000
roentgens.

Cage tests, in which irradiated males were in direct competition
with normal fertile males, showed that the mating habits of the ster-
ile males were essentially the same as for normal males. There was
no evidence of discrimination on the part of females. However, fe-
males that had mated with sterile males would not mate subsequently
with fertile males. When sterile and fertile males in ratios ranging
from 1:1 to 9:1 were present in a cage with normal virgin females,
the ratio of sterile to fertile egg masses produced by the females was
essentially the same as the ratio of sterile to fertile males. The pres-
ence of sterile females in the cages did not seem to alter the results.

Thus numerous laboratory tests by these investigators, using X-ray
equipment furnished by the Army at Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio,
Tex., and a cobalt-60 irradiation unit provided by the Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory, indicated promise for screwworm population con-
trol through the use of sterile males.

The next stage in the investigations involved field experiments.
Would the method reduce the biotic potential of natural screwworm
populations? The answer to this question was not easily obtained.
How many wild flies were emerging in an area during various seasons
of the year? How far and how soon after release would the released
insects migrate, and would they disperse uniformly among the natural
population? What ratio of sterile to fertile insects would be re-
quired to start a downward trend in the natural population ?

These were some of the many unknowns. Because of strong migra-
tion tendencies of the flies, it proved futile to attempt to obtain reliable
information in small to moderate-size areas surrounded by heavily
infested territory. It was concluded that small isolated islands offered
the best opportunities for valid tests with the research funds available.
Consequently, one of the islands off the west coast of Florida, called
Sanibel, having an area of 15 square miles, was selected for tests. Fer-
tile flies heavily charged with P*? were first released on the island at
the rate of 100 females and 100 males per square mile to get some idea
of the natural population. Eggs deposited by the released flies on
host animals could be distinguished from those deposited by natural
wild flies because of the radioactivity. The ratio of radioactive to
nonradioactive egg masses obtained suggested that the release of 100
reared males per week provided more released than wild flies in the
population. A subsequent program in which sterile males were re-
leased at the rate of 100 per square mile per week vesulted in virtual
elimination of a natural population within a few months, but eradica-
tion could not be demonstrated because a few fertile flies were migrat-
ing onto the island from the mainland or nearby infested islands.
SCREWWORM ERADICATION—KNIPLING 413

The opportunity for a more reliable experiment was afforded when
arrangements were made for a cooperative program on Curacao in the
Netherlands Antilles, an island of 170 square miles isolated by 40 miles
from any other land area. An agreement was developed between the
Governor of Curagao and the Administrator of the Agricultural Re-
search Service to undertake a screwworm eradication experiment.
A. H. Baumhover, who was in charge of field tests in Florida, con-
ducted pretreatment surveys. Plans were made to rear and irradiate
the screwworms at the Orlando, Fla., laboratory of the Entomology
Research Division and then ship the pupae by air express to Curacao
for distribution of the emerging flies. Over-all plans for the experi-
ment were developed by R. C. Bushland, A. W. Lindquist, and the
writer. Dr. Bushland was in charge of the entire program. A. H.
Baumhover and B. A. Bitter, veterinary officer on Curacao, were in
charge of the work on Curacao, and A. J. Graham and D. E. Hopkins
were in charge of screwworm production in Florida. These indi-
viduals, who worked directly on the program, as well as several other
assistants deserve great credit for their extraordinary efforts in the
conduct of this program.

The eradication attempt was started on August 9, 1954. Sterile
screwworm flies were released on Curacao from airplanes at the rate
of about 400 sterile males per square mile per week, which provided an
estimated ratio of 3 or 4 sterile to 1 fertile insect in the population.

Table 1 shows the results of egg-mass collections on host animals
exposed in 11 locations on the island. The complete life cycle of the
screwworm during warm weather requires about 3 weeks. It is indi-
cated, therefore, that eradication was achieved in about four genera-
tions. These results were more striking than any of us had hoped for.
The population decline followed closely theoretical trends that had
been calculated.

TaBLE 1.—Fertility of screwworm fly eggs and decline in number of egg masses in
the eradication experiment on Curacao

Number of egg masses | Percent of
Weeks after start of experiment sterile

egg masses
Fertile Sterile
TU! 2 Ee La aa 2 a ee 15 34 69
2 AREER ne CU ne SN DAM A a nk ak Es SS 17 38 69
Sede et er Pa ears) JES 1) Qineet aeene AE IRE 6 fs RECRE em Me ge oe 17 36 68
Ee APU PRICE Pe Wise a A ie Ge eh 10 Biel 79
EF ag AC cen Ra RL Barge Up npc 0! RU ag Re Im a at 7 42 86
Qi Be Mou res OO Vive ee be Ly eee ee eet Fe ARY ie ee EES 3 23 88
ie ees eet Ant MORN A ete WA Pe ae te Ta AB 0 10 100
GS eal. Son ERLerte ea Renn Sophy a aN preter ale TY se yaranee e 0 12 100
CO] 2 Pal abies ae Beste SOTO OREO ok a Res BU 2h Ri: ed elo a Ogle Bua JOsleeh= S24 22
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Table 2 shows the theoretical population trends when an insect
population is assumed to be stable—that is, when one generation in the
absence of special control effort would result in equal numbers of
progeny in the next generation. The example also assumes that the
ratio of two sterile to one fertile insect will result in a maximum theo-
retical reduction in progeny. The figures show that a rapid and
dramatic decline in an insect population is theoretically possible. It is
realized that the maximum decline can hardly be expected in most
situations. However, calculations indicate that if only 25 percent of
the theoretical decline were achieved the end result would still be
eradication after about seven generations.

TABLE 2.—Theoretical population decline in each subsequent generation when a
constant number of sterile males are released among a natural population of 1
million females and 1 million males

Number of un- | Number of sex- |Ratio of sterile} Assumed per-}| Theoretical
Generation mated females |ually sterile males|to fertile males} centage of fe- number of
in area released competing for |males mated to} fertile females
each female | sterile males

— ee ed

| Pmoeiiemaia ti tahe 1, 000, 000 | 2, 060, 000

2:1 66:7 333, 333
ae EA eae 333, 333 | 2, 000, 000 6:1 85. 7 47, 619
SirAteeP RRO 47,619 | 2, 000, 000 42:1 97.7 1, 107
EEN lies oe 1,107 | 2,000,000] 1, 807:1 99. 95 ()

1 Less than 1,

FURTHER RESEARCH POINTING TO SCREWWORM ERADICATION IN THE
SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES

Following the success on Curagao, the Florida Livestock Board
urged further research to adapt the method for an eradication
program for the Southeast and contributed funds to the effort. Addi-
tional funds were appropriated by Congress to further support the
expanded research program. The Insects Afiecting Man and Animals
Research Branch, under the direction of A. W. Lindquist, assigned
additional members of the research staff to the project. Emphasis
was placed on efficient and economical methods of rearing the millions
of flies that would be needed for an eradication program, involving an
area of 50,000 square miles or more. A small pilot plant having the
capacity to produce 2 million flies per week was constructed. Mass
rearing methods were developed utilizing various types of media and
rearing facilities as well as methods of handling the brood colony of
flies to obtain the maximum number of eggs. Procedures were devised
for irradiating large numbers of pupae, and for their proper care until
adult emergence was completed. Equipment for dispersing the flies
from aircraft was designed.

There was little precedent to follow in developing the various pro-
cedures required for such a program. Every operation required new
techniques, new facilities, new equipment. Credit is due each and
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Knipling PLATE 1

1. Adult screwworm flies. male left, female right. The screwworm is about three times as
large as the common house fly.

2. Eggs of the screwworm fly. Each female deposits 200 to 300 eggs, usually in a single

compact mass, on the edges of wounds on the host. (See pl. 6.)

5
5
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Knipling PLATE 2

1, Larvae of the Screwworm fly are two-thirds of an inch long when mature and about as

thick as a kitchen match.

2. Pupae of the screwworm fly form after mature larvae leave the wound and dig into
the soil.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Knipling PLATE 3

]

1. The production of 50 million screwworm flies per week requires thousands of brood

flies. The adults are held in cages of a different design and larger than shown here, and
are fed honey and moist ground meat. After about 8 days eggs are obtained by exposing

warmed screwworm media in the cages.

&

i A \ ae ee, _ ae

2. The screwworm larvae are reared in large flat vats, as shown. About 200,000 larvae
are produced in each vat after feeding on the ground meat-blood medium for about 5
days.
PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Knipling

MereTaor 00'S

jo asesop eB ule}go OF ysnoua suo} Joquie yo uedo oy. ojUl PoetoMO]
sl

0

9

aednd out Sululeyuos qiun ayy sAOge Jo{SIuUv.D IY, “UMOY

-]eqod oY} ul

pesodxo oie ovdnd Avp Yluaaos JO YIXIS ot

s qdtun

TU ORC

a

ba

a &

raw A

“uot eIped

09-38 Go. 0} o1nsodxo 10f Apeol ole Aoyy JQun “uUMOYS se ‘sjayseq
IIIM-UddIOS ul P[?Y pure pues oy wolf poipts ud

ok

Inoy

FC

uly JIM pure

Ss

ul

eednd out

WIOfsuv.sy

ol

oP

ve ovdnd oy,
AJB] OINIRIN *T

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Knipling PLATE 5

SPL OL A Ta

1. Flies emerge from irradiated pupae in paper boxes, and when ready for release are loaded
in the airplane for distribution.

4
ae

2. A box containing 400 to 500 flies is forced into a chute in the airplane. A special device
opens the box and releases flies at intervals of about one mile.
PLATE 6

ing

ip

an Report, 1958.—Kni

soni

Smith

oy} pure

“SUISIeW PUNOM 9Y} UO $339 Os] 3ION

punom oy ul poxoed o1e IVAIET MOY 910N

*Apoq ay} Jo qied Auv Ul Indd0 ABUT SUOI]e}sofUT

“slop, noys pue you out uo a31eyosip punom

‘9S WAOMMOIIOS o1dA0S [vOIdA] VW

SCREWWORM ERADICATION—KNIPLING 415

every member of the staff. R.C. Bushland gave over-all direction to
the research program which was carried out by C. L. Smith, A. H.
Baumhover, A. J. Graham, C. N. Husman, D. E. Hopkins, and F. H.
Dudley.

By July 1957 most of the necessary information and procedures had
been developed. A report outlining plans, procedures, and facility
needs for an eradication program was prepared and considered by Fed-
eral and State regulatory officials. The Florida livestock industry was
instrumental in obtaining State appropriations and through their
Congressmen obtained Federal appropriations for the Department of
Agriculture. The responsibility for carrying out the program at the
Federal level was assigned to the Animal Disease Eradication Divi-
sion of the Agricultural Research Service.

In the fall of 1957 construction was started on a large screwworm
rearing plant at Sebring, Fla. Plans called for completion of the plant
by July 1958.

Then came a real break. The winter of 1957-58 was one of the most
severe ever experienced in Florida. By December it was realized that
unusually cold weather might push the overwintering screwworm deep
into Florida. The Animal Disease Eradication Division proposed the
initiation of the eradication as soon as possible with flies produced in
the pilot plant. Together with the Entomology Research Division
they devised a plan for releasing sterile flies in a zone below the over-
wintering line to establish a barrier and prevent or delay the normal
northward spring migration. Fly production started early in Jan-
uary and the number produced was gradually increased until a maxi-
mum of about 12 million per week were released in mid-July when the
large rearing plant came into production. This timely release program
prevented screwworm buildup in the northern half of Florida. The
alertness in putting this program into effect may make it possible to
achieve eradication of the insect much sooner than expected.

The eradication program, under the able direction of Drs. R. S.
Sharman and D. L. Williams of the Animal Disease Eradication
Division and Drs. C. L. Campbell and M. E. Meadows, Jr., of the
Florida Sanitary Board, was in full operation by September 1958.
By February 1959 few screwworm cases were being found in the entire
State of Florida. These men and their staff members are to be com-
mended for their alertness and effectiveness in the conduct of the pro-
gram. Success in achieving eradication of the screwworm in the
Southeast is assured.

The research leading to its development and the eradication pro-
gram itself are probably the most unusual ever carried out in the
annals of insect control. Details of the program and the facilities
required have been described in a United States Department of Agri-
culture publication issued in July 1958 by the Florida Livestock

4925205928
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Board and the Animal Disease Eradication Division (Illustrated
Descriptive Bulletin No. 1) and in Florida Information Office Tlus-
trated Bulletin No. 2, issued November 1958 by the Florida Live-
stock Board and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The adult
brood colony, consisting of thousands of flies (pl. 3, fig. 1), furnishes
eggs to start the fly production. The larvae are reared in a medium
consisting of ground meat and blood in large vats (pl. 8, fig. 2). The
temperature of the medium is about 99° F., simulating body tempera-
tures of the screwworm’s hosts. The pupae are placed in screen-bot-
tom trays (pl. 4, fig. 1) and held at 80° F. for about 6 days. They are
then exposed to irradiation in a cobalt-60 gamma-ray unit (pl. 4, fig. 2).
The dosage is 8,000 roentgens, which assures sterility of both male and
female insects. Several hundred irradiated pupae are then placed
in special boxes, where they emerge in about 2 days. The flies from
each box are liberated at intervals of about a mile from planes as-
signed to various sectors in the eradication area (pl. 5, figs. 1 and 2).
The number of flies released per square mile varies with the number
of sterile flies available and abundance of screwworms in the natural
population.

The following are a few statistics which indicate the magnitude
of the program. The screwworm rearing plant is designed to pro-
duce 50 million flies per week. The sterile insects (both sexes) are
released at the average rate of 1,000 per square mile per week in an
area of 50,000 square miles. About 80,000 pounds of ground meat
and 4,500 gallons of blood are required per week as larval food.
Six cobalt-60 units are available to irradiate the pupae. Twenty
airplanes are needed to distribute the flies. The staff consists of
200 to 800 workers in the fly-production plant and about 50 inspec-
tors keep check on screwworm abundance and on the results of the
operation. <A group of scientists supervises the operations, and others
are concerned with methods improvement. A quarantine line has
been established along the Mississippi River for the inspection and
treatment of animals to prevent screwworm establishment from in-
fested hosts shipped from the Southwest.

Results of the program will in time be published, but there is every
indication that the objective, as on Curacao, will be achieved much
more rapidly than we had dared to hope for.

WILL THE STERILE-MALE METHOD PROVE USEFUL FOR CONTROLLING OR
ERADICATING OTHER INSECTS?

The successes against the screwworm on Curacao and in Florida
have stimulated interest by biologists to explore the sterile-male
method for controlling other insects. There is reason to believe that
this new biological-control technique might prove practical for eradi-
cating or controlling certain other major pests. A number of require-
SCREWWORM ERADICATION—KNIPLING 417

ments must be met, however. These have already been discussed in
some detail (Knipling, 1955). The major requirements are (1) a
method of causing sterility in the insects without seriously affecting
survival and mating behavior, (2) practical methods of producing
Jarge numbers of sterile insects, (3) adequate dispersal of the in-
sects released so that they will mix with the natural population, and
(4) no danger of damage to crops, animals, or man by the insects
released. Contrary to statements in the literature, single mating
habits of the insect species is not necessarily an essential requirement.

Research on the oriental, Mediterranean, and melon fruitflies,
which the Entomology Research Division has had under way for
several years at its Honolulu laboratory, is now being intensified
to explore the possibility of utilizing the sterile-male method to
eradicate or to prevent the spread and establishment of these major
pests of fruit and vegetables. The work is being done under the
general direction of L. D. Christenson. The research at Honolulu,
under the immediate supervision of L. F. Steiner, shows considerable
promise. Although all the fruitflies named have multiple mating
habits, experiments in cages show that a ratio of about 10 sterile
to 1 fertile male insect results in a high reduction in biotic potential
of the flies. Methods of rearing fruitflies in the laboratory on a
large scale have been developed. The seasonal population trends
for fruitflies show wide variations in most infested areas. The use
of bait sprays or male lures has been found to reduce existing popu-
lations drastically, if necessary. The insects are also of sufficient
importance to warrant a substantial investment in eradication pro-
grams. These factors all suggest that full exploration of the sterile-
male method for fruitfly eradication is justified.

The Mexican fruitfly problem in California and Texas should also
lend itself to practical solution by the sterile-male approach, and
research to explore the possibilities is under way by the Division’s
Mexico City fruitfly laboratory under the immediate supervision of

W. E. Stone.
NEED FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH

Basic information is urgently needed on other major insects be-
fore we can estimate the possibilities of the sterile-male method as a
practical control or eradication procedure. In some situations the
technique might be useful for control or elimination of the pink boll-
worm, boll weevil, European corn borer, southwestern corn borer,
sugarcane borer, codling moth, plum curculio, oriental fruit moth,
tobacco and tomato hornworms, yellow fever mosquito, and no doubt
other insects in the United States or other countries. The method
might be useful in the following types of situations: (1) As an out-
right eradication measure in areas of low insect populations; (2) as
a final eradication procedure following drastic reductions of well-
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

established infestations by the use of chemicals or other means; (8)
as a means of eradicating incipient infestations; (4) as a means of
preventing further spread of insects that have not yet reached the
limits of the survival area; (5) as a means of preventing or retard-
ing spread of pests from overwintering areas.

For an appraisal of the possibilities of this new approach to insect
control, investigations must be conducted along the following lines:
(1) The effect of atomic irradiations on the reproductive capacity
of the insects; (2) the effects of the irradiations on length of life and
sexual behavior of the insect; (3) the mating habits of the insect; (4)
population studies, with particular reference to actual numbers of
insects in a given area during low points in the seasonal cycle or in
areas of new establishment; (5) the biotic potential or normal rate
of increase per generation under natural conditions; (6) the nutri-
tional requirements of insects, with particular emphasis on the develop-
ment of economical means for mass production; (7) the flight range
and dispersal habits of insects; and (8) methods of separating sexes
at low cost for species in which the released females may cause excessive
damage.

These investigations will by no means supply answers to all ques-
tions that might arise in considering the possible use of sterile males
for controlling specific pests.

However, until we obtain such information we cannot forecast just
how useful the method will be in dealing with insect problems in the
United States and in other parts of the world. There is every reason
to believe that this new approach to insect control is sufficiently
promising to warrant exploration for many of our major insect pests.

REFERENCES CITED

Baumnover, A. H.; GRAHAM, A. J.; Hopkins, D. E.; Duptey, F. H.; New, W. D.;
and BUSHLAND, R. C.
1955. Control of screwworms through release of sterilized flies. Journ.
Econ. Entomol., vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 462-466.
BUSHLAND, R. C., and Horpxins, D. E.
1951. Experiments with screwworm flies sterilized by X-rays. Journ. Econ.
Entomol., vol. 44, No. 5, pp. 725-731.
1953. Sterilization of screwworm flies with X-rays and gamma-rays. Journ.
Econ. Entomol., vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 648-656.
Knrerina, E. F.
1955. Possibilities of insect control or eradication through the use of
Sexually sterile males. Journ. Econ. Entomol., vol. 48, No. 4,
pp. 459-462.
LINpDQuIsT, A. W.
1955. Possibilities on the use of gamma radiation for control of eradica-
tion of the screwworm. Journ. Econ. Entomol., vol. 48, No. 4,
pp. 467-469.
MELVIN, Roy, and BUSHLAND, R. C.
1936. A method of rearing Cochliomyia americana C. and P. on artificial
media. U.S. Bur. Entomol. and Plant Quar. ET-88.
Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin
Caribbean Expedition

By Watpo L. ScumitTtT

Research Associate, Smithsonian Institution

[With 10 plates])

THIS NARRATIVE is based on the fieldwork of the second Caribbean
expedition sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington,
Del.t The scientific staff assembled in Miami for an airflight rendez-
vous in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, whence the expedition departed on
March 25, 1958, for a 6-week cruise among those islands, British and
American, and the northern British Leewards. The expedition was
brought to a close at English Harbor, Antigua, B.W.1., in time for a
May 4 return to the States.

The Smithsonian Institution, as before, was primarily interested in
building up its study collections and enhancing its representation of
the animal and plant life of the West Indian-Caribbean area; and also
adding to our knowledge of the zoogeographic distribution of this
fauna and flora. In the course of the earlier expedition, 4,000 plant
specimens, 18,000 insects, more than 27,000 marine invertebrate ani-
mals, and some 1,700 specimens of fishes were collected for the U.S.
National Museum. The over-all results of the 1958 expedition are yet
to be assessed.

EXPEDITION PERSONNEL

For the 1958 cruise we were most fortunate in having again the
Freelance, the 86-foot schooner-yacht which served us so well on the
1956 expedition, with Capt. Desmond Nicholson in command. Our
professional staff this year included J. Bruce Bredin, sponsor of the
expedition; John Finlay, conchologist of Varadero, Cuba; Dr. Carl
N. Shuster, Jr., director of the University of Delaware’s marine labora-
tories at Newark and Lewes, Del.; Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of
insects in the U.S. National Museum, entomologist also on the previous
Caribbean expedition ; and the author, research associate of the Smith-
sonian Institution, of which Mr. Bredin is also an honorary fellow.

1An account of the first Caribbean expedition appeared in the Smithsonian Report for
1956, pp. 443-460, 1957, under the title ‘‘A Narrative of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean
Expedition, 1956.”

419
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Captain Nicholson, aside from being master of the Freelance, could
also be counted a member of the scientific staff aboard. His nautical
know-how, his experience in skin diving, and his consuming interest
in the lives and kinds and whereabouts of the animal life of the sea,
stemming from the biology studies of his schooldays, all combined to
make him an invaluable addition to our staff.

John Finlay knew not only most of the West Indian mollusks at
sight, but also where to find and how to collect them. To the latter
end he brought along three very successful mollusk traps of his own de-
vising, and personally attended to baiting and setting them out one
day and hauling them the next, after an overnight “soak.” This
was no mean task, as the traps are most successful in deeper waters, 30
to 100 fathoms or more. Dredging, skin diving, and wielding his
Weber scoop were other means he employed to add to our take of mol-
lusks. This Weber modification of the original Needham scoop is a
rectangular affair about a foot square and 6 inches deep, of galvanized
mesh with strongly reinforced edges. Scarifying the sea bottom of
sand and mud and weedy flats with one of the sharp sheet-metal cor-
ners, he was able to dip up and sift the dislodged bottom material for
whatever mollusks it contained.

Dr. Shuster, an authority on horseshoe crabs (which, however, do
not live in the area we covered this year), is also keenly interested in
molluscan shellfish from an ecological point of view, their relationship
to their environment particularly, as well as their rate of growth and
manner of shell deposition. He, too, obtained an abundance of mate-
rial and careful measurements of several species, the analysis of which
will occupy him for months to come.

Dr. Clarke is a microlepidopterist, an authority on little moths,
those that are brethren, so to speak, of the tiny pests whose larvae
destroy our unguarded woolens—clothes and blankets—or infest our
cereals. Intimate knowledge of these insects—their kinds and
whereabouts, their host plants or favorite foods, and their ways of
life—is of extreme economic importance. The codling moth alone
causes losses to our apple crops running more than $9 million a year,
and the spruce-budworm, representing another microlepidopteran,
has been known to destroy over $4 million worth of timber in a year.
These are but 2 out of the 40,000 known species of Microlepidoptera.
The great majority are not of much economic importance, but some
10 or 15 percent of them are harmful species, injurious to plants and
crops and other belongings of man.

The Microlepidoptera are primarily nocturnal and so are best cap-
tured at night by means of a light trap. The one employed by Dr.
Clarke consists of a sizable 3-foot metal cone suspended from a tree
or an improvised tripod. <A brilliant light such as a gasoline lantern
is hung partly within the wider upper end of this cone; a cyanide
SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION—-SCHMITT 421

bottle is screwed onto its lower narrow, funnellike end. The light-
attracted insects getting or falling within the cone are quickly over-
come by the cyanide fumes and so are held until the trap is emptied
the next morning. As this was an after-dark operation, Dr. Clarke
spent more than one night ashore, mosquito repellent close at hand,
He made overnight stays on Barbuda, Anguilla, and Redonda.

EXPLORING ISLAND CAVES

The first cave visited was Dark Cave on the island of Barbuda.
From the town of Codrington, the seat of the local Barbudan govern-
ment and the residence of the administrator of the island’s affairs,
who is also postmaster, it was a horseback ride over some of the rock-
iest, shrubbiest, and thorniest terrain that any of us had ever traversed.
In my experience only the Galapagos cactus-acacia thickets are denser
and more difficult and the lava-rock-strewn ground rougher and more
dangerous. Had there not been a previously broken trail on Barbuda,
obviously not too well tended, I doubt if we could have made the round
trip ina day. As it was, the 8-mile trip by road and trail took us a
full 21% hours each way.

It was well after noon before we reached the entrance to Dark Cave.
The descent was 40 feet or more obliquely downward in a tortuous
passage, overhung by huge boulders that did not always appear to
be too firmly affixed to the “roof” over our heads, and under which
we had to stoop at times. At the bottom we found a sizable cavern,
or rather several broadly connected chambers, with alcoves on each
side. Some of these were at levels above the ground floor, others at
or below it. We found the first of a series of five fresh-water pools
at the foot of our downward trek, stretching back into utter darkness.
Where we stood, on the “shore” of the first pool, the water was little
more than ankle deep, increasing to a foot or two farther out. For
the last and largest of the series, our guides claimed a depth of 10 feet,
which one of them promptly demonstrated by plunging in and going
straight down in the middle, feet first with his right arm extended
up over his head. The water closed a good 2 feet above his fingers.

Not the least ray of light filtered in from our crooked entrance
passage. For illumination we had two gasoline lanterns and a flash-
light apiece. The guides brought along also a ball of heavy cord,
which one of them payed out as we went down and in. Lanterns can
be upset or accidentally dunked in dark and unknown waters, and
flashlights and batteries have been known to fail at times. Without
that reassuring “lifeline” for guiding us back among the boulders over
which we had to climb, crowd between, or crawl under, it is doubtful
if we could have retraced our steps safely had our lights given out.
Measured from the loop tied in the line at our last stop, the foreshore
of that farthest-in pool, we found we had come 400 feet.
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The little minnow seine brought along was much too small for
effective use in the deepest pool and useless in the smaller, rock-en-
cumbered ones. Our search for fish was futile, but our 7- by 9-inch
nylon dipnet, assiduously wielded by Captain Nicholson, captured
two blind shrimps and some three dozen amphipods; from the cave
floor we collected more than a hundred inch-long millipedes.

The shrimps, when later critically examined by Dr. Fenner A.
Chace, Jr., National Museum’s curator of marine invertebrates, proved
to be 7yphlatya monae, a species he had described from four female
specimens taken in 1951 from a 30-foot well on Mona Island, between
Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, and three others of the same sex dis-
covered on that occasion in an old catchment basin on a high plateau
on the island. Only two other Typhlatyas are known, both from
America, 7’. garciae from a cave at Banes, Oriente Province, Cuba,
and 7’. pearset from a cave on Yucatan.

Clarence R. Shoemaker, one of the world’s foremost authorities on
amphipods and a research associate of the Smithsonian Institution,
quickly determined that the amphipods from Dark Cave represented
two new species belonging to two quite different genera, both sub-
terranean. Neither, scientifically or physiologically, had ever seen
the light of day. As dwellers in dark, unilluminated places these
amphipods, like our cave shrimp, have only inconspicuous pigment
spots where the functional eyes in normal crustaceans of their kind
are located. Thirty-five of the specimens belong to the genus Metani-
phargus, of which two other West Indian species are known, one from
St. Kitts, the other from the Dutch island of Curacao, off the north
coast of Venezuela. Barbuda now extends the range of the genus
farther north. The unique 36th amphipod in our haul will be the
6th species to be credited to the likewise subterranean genus Bogidiella.
Of the five already known, three are recorded from Europe—at Stras-
burg, in the Balkans, and in salt water in the Mediterranean area;
and two from Brazil, one at Bahia in underground salt water, the
other in fresh water in Amazonas. Zoogeographically, Bogidiella in
this cavern is an even more unexpected find than the Metaniphargus
there, as the other Bogidiellas occur in localities very much farther
away than either of the Metaniphargus species. Furthermore, until
now Bogidiella has been known only from continental land masses
almost half a world apart. The millipedes, of which Dr. Clarke got
138 with just a few “lifts” of a small pair of curved-point forceps,
seem to be a new species of the genus Z’pinannolene.

How these subterranean animals get about from island cave to
island cave, or from mainland to island, or vice versa, is an intriguing
problem. Millipedes can run about and perchance come to the sur-
face, where in daylight or dark they may lay their fertile eggs or
place their young in soil that may become attached to the
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 1

re

1. At anchor off the harbor entrance, Sopers Hole, Tortola. The Freelance is the larger

of the two yachts.

2. John Finlay working over tidal flats at Anegada with Weber model of Needham scoop,
The Freelance anchored offshore.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 2

1. One of the larger trees of xerophilous flora of Tortola. ‘The large epiphytes are bromeliads
which provide the habitat for diverse and numerous fauna.

2.

a

ficrobiological collecting, using Berlese funnel, undertaken at every shore station.
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt

‘QIURISIP ou} ul BlOIOT, fo Sq] EY eUL “uIOg SUM “‘joudvg Sd1B1S poetuy) out jo Jog TYoIVe ‘uoUIOY J, UWETTIT MA puey[st sty ud) ‘aA UBA 1sof “IOGIe PT

2)

I

WT

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 4

1. Close-up of bat caves, while anchored under Flat Top Rock Point, Crocus Bay, Anguilla.

SV yu rae SRS

2. Light trap for Microlepidoptera on hill above village of Road, Anguilla.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 5

1. John Finlay about to lower his rattan mollusk trap in 126 fathoms off Charleston Nevis.

In this particular haul he took a unique specimen of Bursa.

2. Rest period in an opening in the scrubby thicket on a reconnaissance of the trail to

Dark Cave.
PLATE 6

—Schmitt

Smithsonian Report, 1958.-

‘QARy

Aqieqd

“epngieg

‘suseyeis IeuUINyoo

poeddoy-1e[ J °Z

wit

‘epnqieg “oAed Aqieq ‘ejoy yuls fo
Joddn ay} Wolf Jo9} Q/ SUIpUZISap SJOOI vULIT |

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 7

1. A bit of Egypt in the West Indies. Corral and watering place for stock near Codrington,
Barbuda.

2. The Commando, Antiguan experimental fishing vessel, steaming into English Harbor.
PLATE 8

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt

‘oul, pury pexyooy -sjdnynur *o[SuIs
ev uo uUdyey sioddeus pel uvoqqiiv) XxIg ‘¢

‘uljieu onjq punod
-00S YUM ‘ensnuy ‘einqjnousy jo Juou
-yredoq ‘1o9ujo Araysy ‘foyoeued ydjey °

¢

‘outly
8uo| uo Udze} syIeys Aysnp OM} fo sud a

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 9

~ se oe

1. Redonda. The island of Montserrat looms faintly in the distance.

2, The very tiptop of Redonda.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Schmitt PLATE 10

1. Booby with nestling.

2. The upper level, Redonda. Former ‘‘residence” of phosphate-mining crew at left;
rain-water cistern at extreme right.
SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION—SCHMITT 423

feet. of birds and so be carried far and wide, or else may be blown
for considerable distances by strong winds or hurricanes. Could
the bats possibly play a part in the transport of cave animals? It
does not seem very likely in the case of the animals before us, but
studies of flights and migration of banded specimens of bats in New
England have brought to light the fact that some individuals have
“traveled” as much as 125 to 156 miles from the place where they
were banded. But bats are known for their clean feet and claws.

When not in alarmed flight, the squeaking host of bats overhead
festooned the irregularities of the higher reaches of the cavern, and
had it not been for Dr. Clarke’s handiness with his insect net, we
might not have captured a single specimen, traveling as we were on
this occasion without firearms of any description. A few deft swipes
and some scratching with his long-handled net in accessible niches
overhead obtained for us at least six of them.

The bats from Dark Cave, Brachyphylla cavernarum by name, Dr.
Charles O. Handley, Jr., National Museum’s associate curator of mam-
mals, tells me are an omnivorous species, eating fruit and insects, and
as far as known confined to the West Indian islands. In the
Museum’s collection we have specimens from six of them: Dominica,
Puerto Rico, St. Croix, Barbuda, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.

On the way home from Dark Cave our guides made a slight detour
so that we might take in Bryant Cave. This we found to be an
exceedingly wet and slimy sink under a deeply undercut cliff. The
thoroughly overshadowed pool at its foot appeared devoid of animal
life except for a few aquatic insects and numerous tiny black snails
leaving little trails behind them as they crawled over the bottom,
which appeared to be largely a muddy, yellowish-greenish bac-
terial(?) and algal slime. The Museum’s associate curator of
mollusks, Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, says they are a new species of the
genus Littoridinops, family Hydrobiidae. Although there was con-
siderable diffused light, no direct sunlight seems ever to reach this
sinkhole’s dank depths.

Another cave visited the next day was Darby Cave, which turned
out to be another great sinkhole. Originally it must have been an
exceedingly large cavern, the roof of which had collapsed. The
result was an impressive amphitheater, 70 feet in depth and 400 feet
across. Its expanse was crowded with the lush green tops of tall
trees and magnificent palms, a veritable rain-forest in this otherwise
desiccated and arid-looking land. In its dryness at the time of our
visit, and in its wealth of cacti and thorny acacias and other xero-
phytic plants, Barbuda again reminded me of the dry season in the
Galipagos. But Barbuda is, underneath it all, well watered. One
can dig a well almost anywhere and strike water. The several caves
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

and sinks are ample evidence of the water resources underlying the
whole of this island.

On one side of our amphitheater was a great rock wall rising 70
feet above our heads. Undercut fully 30 feet, there was left just a
perilously thin roof, projecting to form what might be described as
the top of the proscenium arch of the amphitheater’s stage. Not
until we were down inside did we appreciate our guides’ concern
when they pulled us back from the upper rim of this cliff upon which
we had dismounted to peer over and to photograph the striking
jungle down below.

Opposing the cliffside “stage” were tiers of “seats” of a rubble of
broken slabs of rock that once formed the roof of the former cavern.
Down this tumbled slope we descended as from a high-up “peanut
gallery” to the “pit” below. Because of that 30-foot overhang, the
“stage” was so shaded that it was wholly devoid of trees. Here we
rested and ate our lunch, which was enjoyed with some qualms, for
we could not avoid remarking upon the large blocks of rock that at
one time or another had dropped from above. Between us and the
“balcony seats” on the far side of the amphitheater, obscuring them
from sight, was our dense rain-forest, mostly tall palms stretching
upward toward the light. The forest floor was a thick mulch of dead
and rotting palm fronds. Before us, from over the clifl’s rim,
descended hawser-thick roots of mighty lianas, reaching down for
moisture and nurture in the humus-rich soil underfoot. In a few
places over the rim came the intermittent drip-drip of water, though
we saw not the slightest trace of it when we were on top. These little
bits of moisture were building up small stalagmites, none larger than
a fist. We later found a startlingly large stalagmite 8 feet high and
not less than 2 feet in diameter. This greenish-white, almost trans-
lucent mass of limestone was so smooth, so solid and well formed,
that I have yet to see its counterpart in any of the many caves I have
explored along our eastern seaboard. In the lightly misted patches
formed about the stalagmites, Dr. Clarke, in his search for insects,
discovered tiny frogs hiding among adjacent broken stone and gravel.

We also looked into other and more superficial caves, at sea level
and above, in the cliffs under Flat Top Rock Point near Crocus Bay,
Anguilla. These are well known locally as popular bat roosts. At
night the bats skimmed the surface of the water. While we were
hand-lining over the side and dip-netting for plankton under an
electric light suspended at the surface of the water, one, indeed, took
hold of the captain’s line. Before he could jerk the hook upward to
impale it, the bat took off. It was to us a new experience. The cap-
tain, however, recalled that he had, under similar circumstances,
snagged a bat off Dominica one night the year before. He was sure it

(=)
was fishing at the surface. Try as we might, we never got another
SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION—SCHMITT 425

strike at Anguilla that night or the next. Fish-eating bats, I found on
my return to Washington, were to our mammalogists an old story, of
which the first published record goes back as far as 1860.’

The last of the caves visited in the course of this year’s investigations
was the very appropriately named Bat Cave, on Antigua. This was
a favored resort of the species that we had captured earlier in Dark
Cave on Barbuda. Of its occurrence in Antigua our mammalogists
had long been aware, as our very first specimen of it from this island
had been cataloged in 1864.

I never again expect to see as many bats in one place as I did that
May 1 in Antigua, unless it should be in the vastly larger Carlsbad
Cavern in New Mexico. Although Bat Cave is no small affair, it
had been considerably larger not long before our visit. A rock-
fall had blocked off an extensive passage, which as local legend has
it, went well down under the sea all the way to Martinique. If
such connections between these island caves can be conceived, how
easily is the distribution of their inhabitants to be explained. As
improbable as the story is, I would nevertheless like to investigate any
caves on Martinique.

COLLECTING INVERTEBRATES

Before our cave explorations on Barbuda, we cruised for some days
among the British Virgin Islands, amplifying our 1956 collections
from Tortola (Road Town, March 26) and Virgin Gorda (March 28,
29; April 6,7). Of the Tortola anchorages, Sopers Hole (March 81;
April 1, 5, and 6) was scientifically the most rewarding in fish and
invertebrates taken by skin diving, dredging, and shore collecting.
Insects were collected from the steep hills encircling this bay by Dr.
Clarke, who covered them quite thoroughly with net, by ground and
debris searching by day, and by light trapping at night.

Similar activities occupied our time at Guano Island (March 27),
Peter Island (March 29), Jost Van Dyke (April 1,2), Norman Island
(April 6), Anegada (April 9), Anguilla and Sandy Island nearby

2That and subsequent observations were reviewed in 1945 (Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 26,
No. 1, pp. 1-15, 1945) by the late Dr. E. W. Gudger. He acquainted us with the fact
that the species hereabouts, Noctilio leporinum, is widely distributed through the New
World Tropics, ranging from Ecuador and Panama and Surinam through the West Indies.
The Museum has specimens of it from Trinidad, Barbados, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Croix,
Mona Island, and Puerto Rico.

But no one was certain just how the bats captured their prey until Dr. Prentice Bloedel,
then a member of the University of California’s graduate school, looked into the matter
and photographically recorded their mode of catching fish (Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 36,
No. 38, pp. 390-399, 1955). He watched, and took still flashes and moving pictures of
captured individuals on a screened porch, fishing in a shallow pan in which he had small
fish swimming. With their sharply clawed feet the bats gaffed fish as they swooped
down to the surface of the water, passing the captured fish up to the mouth. That
night off Anguilla, with our gangway light hung close to the water, young and larval
fish Were swarming in countless numbers. A few dips with a net filled a quart jar.
Undoubtedly it was this rich plankton “soup” that brought the bats to the side of the
ship, more than the hand line the captain put over the side in hopes of snaring one.
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

(April 18, 14, and 15), and off Bird and Green Islands in Nonsuch Bay
on the way to Barbuda (April 23, 24). While at Barbuda, the better
part of 2 days (between April 27 and 29) was given over to land and
littoral collecting about Spanish Point on the boisterous, spray-
drenched, windward shore of that island.

Mr. Bredin, who had planned on participating in our several activi-
ties for a full 3 weeks, had to leave after a week. John Finlay,
too, left shortly after, but not until he had aroused in Dr. Shuster the
desire to make a critical statistical study of a small or dwarf form of
the fighting conch, Strombus pugilis, that he had dredged up in con-
siderable numbers in the channel between Tortola and Jost Van Dyke.

Dr. Shuster’s enthusiasm for detailed analyses of racial differences
within mollusk species was carried over to the genus Vasum, following
John Finlay’s visit to a St. Johns curio shop, where he met Mrs. Leslie
Allen, of Hartford, Conn., residing at the Mill Reef Club, who told
John of the occurrence of Vaswm nuttingi (strictly speaking, Vasum
globulum nuttingi) in Carlisle Bay. John tells me that without her
explicit directions he would not have come upon this species during his
brief stay in Antigua. Thus it was that he obtained the first specimens
of the species he had ever seen, with the aid of local children who
volunteered their services. Though we were not aware of it at the
time, this species had previously been taken in English Harbor and
along the rocky shores of Falmouth Bay, from which two areas came
the original material described by the late John B. Henderson, noted
collector and one-time Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. He
found them while taking part in the Barbados-Antigua Expedition of
the University of Iowa, in 1918.

This interest in shells and in Vaswm in particular led to our be-
coming acquainted with Dr. William T. Bode, of West Sacramento,
Calif., who, with his wife, two daughters in their teens, and a younger
son, was spending the current scholastic year as a Fulbright fellow
conducting a manual-arts workshop for a selected group of Antiguan
school teachers. In their spare time, the Bodes became greatly inter-
ested in the local molluscan fauna, amassing a very comprehensive
collection and a wealth of firsthand information about the environ-
ments favored by the various species. Just a few days before our
departure they took Dr. Shuster to some of their favorite collecting
grounds in others of the many bays indenting the shores of Antigua,
where they got considerable numbers of at least two different forms
of Vasum globulum nuttingi. Dr. Shuster himself quite unexpectedly
found other varieties in even greater quantity about Spanish Point,
Barbuda, on the surf-beaten windward side of the island on the
occasion of our visit there on April 29. Noting the appreciable differ-
ences exhibited by this species of Vaswm from bay to bay around:-An-
tigua and from Barbuda, Dr. Bode and Dr. Shuster decided to collab-

ee
SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION—SCHMITT 427

orate on an ecologic-systematic study of the Vasums in their respective
West Indian collections.

Mr. Finlay’s special mollusk traps were also very successful. On
one occasion in 126 fathoms off Charlestown, Nevis, and on another
in 120 fathoms off Anguilla, they brought up an appreciable number
of perfect specimens of Murex cailleti kugleri. In that Nevis haul
he also got another interesting shell, Bursa tenuisculpta, of finer
sculpture and of more elongated form than usual. The A/wrew is
represented in the National Museum’s collections from southeast
Florida, off Bahia Honda, Cuba, Yucatan, and north of the Virgin
Islands, in depths ranging from 50 to 1380 fathoms or more. The
Finlay specimens extend the range of the species considerably farther
south and east than heretofore known. This Murex has also been
taken both north and south of Redonda. It has been recorded, almost
exclusively by dredging operations, from Sand Key, Fla., in 25
fathoms; Cuba, 180 fathoms; Jamaica; Santo Domingo; St. Croix,
115 and 248 fathoms; Saint Maarten ; and Guadeloupe.

FISHING WITH THE LONG-LINE

For the first time on any Smithsonian expedition, the so-called long-
line was used for taking specimens at sea. This type of fishing gear
was developed by the Japanese for their oceanic fisheries, principally
tuna and albacore. Their success with it led our Fish and Wildlife
Service to adopt and adapt it for use by American fishermen. We re-
quested from the Fish and Wildlife Service the loan of a long-line
for this Bredin expedition, to see what we might catch with it. The
Service helpfully complied, being interested in what this gear might
catch in the area in which we would be operating. The long-line
is an informative tool of the first order in prospecting for com-
mercially important fish.

They advised us to take but half a Jong-line, 5 tubs (“baskets,” or
sections) of line, instead of the standard 10. We were new to the game,
and our chartered yacht was not specially fitted for this kind of
fishing, though our captain and crew soon familiarized themselves
with handling it over the side. Each section is 138 fathoms long,
so that five tubs alone, end to end, will stretch out more than three-
fourths of a mile. Buoy lines are usually adjusted so that the baited
Japanese tuna-type hooks hang between 10 and 20 fathoms below the
surface, the recommended fishing depth. These hooks, 10 to a tub
or section, are each attached to a 4-fathom branch line with a 1-fathom
wire leader. A buoy is at the end of each section, and at the beginning
and end of the line is attached a signal flag on a bamboo pole, suitably
buoyed with cork floats and weighted to stand upright. These
markers are essential, as the long-lines are best put over at or just be-
fore dawn and allowed to soak for several hours. If a number of
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

long-lines are out, or other work is undertaken in the interval, the
signals facilitate locating expensive gear again, to say nothing of the
catch.

We completed four trials with that long-line, not counting a dry run
with a couple of sections, to acquaint our crew with the gear. Two of
the four actual trials were made from the Freelance off Anegada, April
9, and southwest of Redonda, April 18—both unproductive except for
an 8-foot white-tipped shark, Carcharhinus longimanus, on the first
trial off Anegada. Specimenwise, his stomach was empty. His sharp-
toothed jaws, dissected out for clinching our field identification, now
repose in the National collections. We were unable to get a picture
of the shark because in the excitement of landing him we could not
see the fish for the men, and a dead, disemboweled shark on deck in a
tangle of ropes is not a photogenic subject.

When we got to St. Johns, Antigua, and met Ralph Camacho, fishery
officer to the Antiguan Department of Agriculture, the possibilities of
long-line fishing appealed so to him that he kindly offered to take us
out for further trials on his 41-foot experimental fishing vessel, the
Commando, a most practical, well-powered craft. With his more ex-
pert fishermen and the bait that he was able to obtain, our gear yielded
somewhat more promising results. On the first of the two runs he
made, the one in the vicinity of French Bank, off the north end of
Martinique, we drew another blank. On the second, however, on April
29, well to the eastward of Barbuda, we had our best luck. Here the
bottom dropped off suddenly over a “precipice,” from 50 to more than
200 and as suddenly again to 1,000 fathoms. Long-lines seem to yield
the best results when fishing is done in waters of 500 fathoms and more,
and so it was with us this day. The Commando got two 8-foot dusky
sharks, Carcharhinus obscurus, a 1014-foot blue marlin, Makaira
nigricans ampla, and five 4-foot dolphins, Coryphaena hippurus.
Attracted perhaps by the baited long-line as it was being taken in, these
swift blue-and-gold beauties were schooling about the last flag buoy.
Caught on baited hand-lines quickly thrown over to tempt them, they
were pulled aboard after many spectacular leaps.

Between making this set in the early morning and hauling it in in
the early afternoon, the Commando resorted to a fishing ground
farther in to fill in the time hand-lining. It was, indeed, a fortunate
day all around—corvalos, amberjacks, and black-spotted and Carib-
bean snappers, these last in several lots of four and five, and in one
instance six, on a single hand line. The blue marlin, though, was the
prize catch. Since our trip with him, Ralph Camacho landed an even
larger one—a 12-footer which weighed 426 pounds dressed, and which
he is confident would have tipped the scales at at least 500 pounds in
the round. It took 53 minutes to boat that fellow. But the grand-
SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION—SCHMITT 429

daddy of all blue marlins must be the one caught off Bimini, June 19,
1949, by Aksel Wichfield, on a 180-pound line. It weighed 742 pounds.

REDONDA REVISITED

Redonda is an isolated, precipitous, and forbidding rock on which
Dr. Clarke and I had landed during the Smithsonian-Bredin Carib-
bean Expedition of 1956. We were ashore but a few hours because
the captain did not care to hazard anchoring in those deep and rocky
waters, where winds and currents are unpredictable. We landed pri-
marily to get samples of the phosphate deposit formerly mined here
and to gather what littoral invertebrates I could in the time available,
while Dr. Clarke climbed a steep gully leading to the top, to recon-
noiter the rock’s insect life. This altogether too brief visit whetted our
desire for another opportunity. This Captain Nicholson vouchsafed
this year, but regrettably I could not personally avail myself of the
offer because of the long-line trial that had to be made. We put Dr.
Clarke ashore with his ight trap, insect collecting gear, and a bite to
eat. We were not to pick him up until the next afternoon, although
we could anchor under the lee of the rock for as long as possible after
the day’s fishing.

As Dr. Clarke recounts his visit:

Landing on Redonda is uncertain, as I learned year before last. This year
it was smoother than I had expected. The climb up went better, too, as last
time I had unwittingly essayed the more difficult of the two accessible ravines—
gullies, if you prefer. By getting ashore in the afternoon, I had ample time for
investigating the top of this 1,000-foot-high pinnacle rock, the birds, the bugs,
and the buildings before dark. There were also lots of little geckos about. The
boobies all had nestlings, but most noteworthy among the feathered residents
was the burrowing owl, Speotyto cunicularia amaura. Identified by Dr. Alex-
ander Wetmore from my description of its appearance and plaintive call, this is
a new record for the species. The cistern on top for collecting water in the
phosphate-mining days is still in good condition, and still contains what can be
regarded as potable water, though I was not moved to drink any of it. Of the
former residence or dormitory, only walls and ceiling of the first floor remain.
I spent the night in this shelter, except for frequent visits to my traps and my
several bouts with rats. Geckos, which abounded on the walls of my shelter,
were easily caught by picking them off the walls with the aid of a flashlight.
There were also many large hermit crabs, Coenobita, about. They were largest
of their kind I had ever seen—perhaps a giant race? Naturally I was chided
the next day for not bringing a few down with me, even though this crab is
about the most widely distributed crustacean in all the West Indies. My
primary objective was to set my light trap on this isolated rock. This I success-
fully achieved by hanging the light from the island’s only tree, an introduction
on the island. The catch was meager, but I got a long series of the beetle genus
Hymenorus, of the family Alleculidae, apparently attracted to the area by the
foul-smelling, nitrogenous excrement of the sea birds. There is no previous
record for this family for the West Indies. There were few insects attracted
to the light, but in addition to the beetles about 20 species of Microlepidoptera
have been sorted from that overnight catch.
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

The inclined plateau forming most of the top of the island is covered by
coarse grasses, sedges, a slender narrow-leafed agave, several cacti in great
abundance, lantana, and several other scrubby shrubs. The whole island pre-
sents an unfavorable aspect, and one must be constantly alert lest he fall in brush-
covered holes or fall with a rock slide. On the upper reaches of the island the
sea birds share their precarious retreat with goats and a large, swift, black
lizard. The latter are curious reptiles. While dismembering a dead agave, in
search of beetles or cockroaches, my scratching attracted 20 or 30 of these
black fellows, whose curiosity brought them within easy range—but I had no
shotgun. Two very recent rockfalls attest to the insecurity of the Redonda
sanctuary, rock falls no doubt caused by the several slight earthquakes such as
we experienced during our recent visit.

Best of all, I got to the very top of Redonda, something I wanted to do ever
since I set foot ashore here 2 years ago, and I sampled the night crawlers and
fliers which I did not have the opportunity to do before, and may never have
again.

Coming down the gully up which I had climbed was likewise easier than in
1956. I did not have to ride a rock avalanche down this time, but getting off
was a wetter performance. After putting my gear safely aboard the dinghy in .
which Danny and Joe came to get me, in the rise and fall of the surf on the
boulder-heaped shore, I stepped unwittingly into the sea instead of the boat,
which did not rise in time to meet me, as I thought it would. Hither my timing
or that of the unaccommodating 5-foot-high surf was poor, but anyway the dip
was as refreshing as a shower after a hot and dirty day and a not too
comfortable night ashore.

IN CONCLUSION

This year’s trip to the Virgin Islands covered less ground—and less
water—than the previous Smithsonian-Bredin expedition to the Carib-
bean—500 miles as compared with 1,000, and 18 islands as compared
with 28. This time, however, we got underground, inside the islands,
a thing we had never done before in this area, and got to the very top
of Redonda. The collecting was good in most places, excellent in
some, but this narrative is following too soon upon our return for an
evaluation of the size and value of our collections. As a single in-
stance, however, there may be mentioned the nearly 250 cockroaches
that Dr. Clarke hewed from a large dead agave’s imbricated leaves on
the slopes of Peter Island above Little Bay. These roaches are not
our usual North American household kind, but one of the wild, out-
door, tropic species, Hemiblabera brunneri, of which Dr. Ashley Gur-
ney, of the United States Department of Agriculture, tells me the
Museum had but four specimens, while not more than a dozen are
known in museums generally. Dr. Gurney is devoting serious study
to the distribution of the cockroaches through the West Indies and was
very pleased with the material the expedition brought back from 13
different localities, totaling more than 2,000 specimens.

Again the thanks of the Smithsonian Institution go to Mr. and
Mrs. Bredin for another memorable, noteworthy, and scientifically
profitable expedition.
Tools Makyth Man’

By KENNETH OAKLEY
British Museum (Natural History)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN appears to have been the first to call man the
“toolmaking animal,’? while Thomas Carlyle in Sartor Resartus
(1833) declared: “Without tools he is nothing.” In pre-Darwinian
days the definition of man was no more than a philosophical exercise.
That man might have evolved from lower animals was in the minds
of very few people in those days. Certainly the question of how to
draw a boundary between prehuman and human had not yet become a
practical issue. Even the conception that man had a long unrecorded
past had barely taken root a hundred years ago, although the seeds of
the idea had been sown by a few men far ahead of their time, such as
Isaac de la Peyrére, who published a book in Paris in 1655 on Primi
Homines ante Adanvum, and John Frere whose discovery of flint tools
in brick earths at Hoxne in Suffolk led him to infer in 1797 that they
had been “used by a people who had not the use of metals,” and “be-
longed to a very ancient period indeed, even before that of the present
world.” aes

The idea that man had an extensive prehistoric past began to grow
during the second quarter of the last century, largely asa result of stone
tools being recognized in deposits containing the remains of extinct
animals. Flint implements associated with bones of Diluvial (we
should now say Glacial) animals were reported from Belgium caves
in 1832, and in 1840 from below a thick layer of stalagmite in Kent’s
Cavern, Torquay. At this time orthodox scientists, following the
French naturalist Cuvier, were incredulous of such discoveries.
When, in 1846, a French customs official, Boucher de Perthes, repeated
his claim (first made in 1838) that he had discovered at Abbeville in
the ancient gravels of the river Somme, flints worked by man and
associated with remains of Antediluvian animals, the majority of
archeologists and geologists were frankly scornful. In 1854 one of
his critics, a physician named Rigollot, was converted to the unortho-

1 Reprinted by permission from Antiquity, vol. 31, 1957.

2 Quoted in Boswell’s Life of Johnson, April 7, 1778.

431
492520—59——29
432 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

dox view when he himself found similar chipped flints (hand axes) in
fossil-bearing river gravel at St. Acheul, near Amiens. In November
1858, the English paleontologist Hugh Falconer visited Abbeville, and
was favorably impressed by the evidence. In the following April, at
Falconer’s suggestion, the geologist Joseph Prestwich went to Abbe-
ville and St. Acheul. After examining the collections and visiting
the pits in company with the English archeologist John Evans, he
returned to London and on May 26, 1859, presented a paper to the
Royal Society announcing his acceptance of the claims made by
Boucher de Perthes and Rigollot. ‘This pronouncement, coming from
a geologist of such high repute, had a great effect on scientific opmion
throughout the world. The year 1859 was, as we now see, one of the
turning points in human thought; the immense antiquity of man was
established almost simultaneously with the publication in book form of
Darwin’s theory of evolution, “On the Origin of Species by Means of
Natural Selection.”

Fossilized skeletal remains of man were found during the second
half of the last century at a number of localities: Neanderthal (1856),
Cro-Magnon (1868), Spy (1886), and Trinil in Java (1891). It was
gradually realized that these provided concrete evidence that man had
been subject to evolutionary change as deduced by Darwin in his
“Descent of Man” (1871). However, none of these discoveries pushed
back the antiquity of man, for the unquestionable flint tools from the
Abbeville gravels had already indicated his existence in Europe before
the arrival of the typically glacial fauna. As Boucher de Perthes
expressed it (after translation) : “In spite of their imperfection, these
rude stones prove the existence of man as surely as a whole Louvre
would have done.”

How great is the antiquity of man? If he is defined as the tool-
making primate, this problem resolves itself into the question of the
geological age of the oldest known artifacts. Although the flint hand
axes (palaeoliths) dating from the earlier part of the Pleistocene
period are crudely flaked, they are nevertheless standardized tools, and
this has generally been regarded as indicating that a long tradition of
slowly acquired skill lay behind them. This was the idea sustaining
the search for traces of the handiwork of Tertiary man, in other words
the hunt for eoliths.

I must here digress for a moment to recall that the Tertiary era,
beginning 75 million years ago and distinguished by the rise of mam-
mals, is divided into the Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene
periods. The Pleistocene period or Ice Age, with its postglacial ap-
pendage of Holocene or Recent time, constitutes the Quaternary era.
Originally the Pleistocene was defined as coincident with the Quater-
nary Ice Age, but the International Geological Congress in 1948
recommended its redefinition to include the Villafranchian stage (for-
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 433

merly in part Upper Pliocene) distinguished by the spread of ele-
phants of the genus Hlephas, oxen (Bos), and one-toed horses
(Equus). Owing to these changes in nomenclature, deposits which
were formerly “Early” Pleistocene are now counted as Middle Pleisto-
cene (e.g., the Abbeville gravels and the Trinil beds) ; while other
deposits fermienly ecemade as Pliocene, i.e., Tertiary, for example the
Red Crag of East Anglia, are now regarded as Lower Pleistocene by
the majority of geologists. The “glacial Pleistocene” is estimated to
have been about half a million years in duration, but the addition of
the Villafranchian stage has nearly doubled the length of the period.

The problem of eoliths, supposed artifacts of Tertiary man, was first
raised by the discoveries of Abbé Louis Bourgeois, who found in 1867
a great quantity of chipped flints, in the forms of alleged scrapers,
knives, and borers, in a fresh-water deposit of Lower Miocene ® age
near Thenay (Loir-et-Cher). From time to time similar chipped
flints were reported in other Tertiary formations: in Lower Eocene
strata at Clermont (Oise), in Upper Oligocene gravels at Boncelles,
Belgium, in “Upper Miocene” (now Lower Pliocene) deposits at Puy
Courny, Cantal, in the so-called Pliocene plateau gravels on the North
Downs in Kent, and within and below the Red Crag of East Anglia.

With the growth of knowledge on the evolution of the primates,
based on a study of actual fossil remains, it has become clear in the
present century that our forerunners had only the size range of bush
babies throughout Eocene times. Man-sized apes did not emerge before
the Miocene period, while the earliest manlike remains date from early
Pleistocene times. Thus, pre-Miocene eoliths at any rate may now be
dismissed as geological curiosities, with no bearing on the origins of
tool making. The unreliability of the criteria used by the earlier
archeologists who recognized “flints shaped by human agency” in the
Tertiary formations is evident from the fact that Eocene eoliths are as
convincingly artificial in appearance as many of those from lai
formations! ae

In some circumstances flint is very readily fractured, and the eal
agencies which cause it to be chipped into shapes reminiscent of artifice
are legion. The eoliths found in Tertiary river gravels are strikingly
similar to flints broken by violent agitation in the water of chalk mills.
This is understandable. An accumulation of flints of eolithic form was
found in a river gravel in a valley in Wiirtemberg where the material
carried by the main stream had evidently been drawn into whirlpools
caused by the inflow of tributaries. Another agency which results in
the production of pseudoartifacts is the pressure combined with move-
ment occurring when flint-bearing strata founder through the solution
of underlying chalk or other calcareous formation. This was the
agency chiefly responsible for the Clermont eoliths. The Kent eoliths

* Aquitanian : classified by some authors as Upper Oligocene.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

were mainly produced by the powerful friction of one stone against
another which occurs in soil creep, particularly under subglacial
conditions.

While it is reasonable enough to consider the possibility of tool-
using primates having existed during Pliocene times, and even during
the Miocene period, there are insuperable difficulties in the way of
recognizing the particular pieces of stone or bone that may have
been picked up and used. The earliest attempts at making tools
from pieces of stone must have been all but indistinguishable from
the accidents of nature (and we have already seen how “human”
these can appear). Naturally fractured stones probably served as
the first tools. Some Australian aborigines at the present day
fashion wooden utensils with naturally shaped pieces of stone selected
by virtue of their sharp cutting edges. As one French prehistorian
expressed the problem of eoliths: “Man made one, God made ten
thousand—God help the Man who tries to see the one in the ten
thousand.”

During the present century large numbers of flaked flints, including
some strongly suggestive of intelligent design, have been found in
the Stone Bed underlying the Norwich and Weybourne Crags in Nor-
folk and in the Bone Bed below the Red Crag in Suffolk. These
flints show a number of features not found in the general run of Ter-
tiary eoliths; and largely, I believe, because they date from the very
interval of time when, according to many lines of evidence, tool making
probably began, they have been widely accepted as human artifacts
despite the relentless opposition of scientists who have specialized in
the study of flint fractures, such as Hazzledine Warren and the late
Prof. A. S. Barnes. If one confines attention to the beautiful rostro-
carinates, corelike forms, scraperlike flakes, and so on, laid out for ex-
hibition in the Norwich Castle Museum and the Ipswich Museum, it is
difficult to disbelieve in their human origin. Yet, collecting for oneself
in the Sub-Crag Stone Bed, for example, one is bewildered by the high
percentage of the component flints that have been bruised and chipped,
the majority obviously in a random fashion. Now and again the
flakes have been removed first from one side and then from another
side in a way suggestive of design. By keeping only the best of the
latter kind one can build a collection that is convincingly like a
crude human industry; yet seen as part of a vast series of flakings,
with gradation from obviously natural to seeming]ly artificial, the Sub-
Crag “implements” are less convincing than when studied in isolation.
Nevertheless, the late Reid Moir and others made a good case for
accepting some of the assemblages of flakings in and below the Crag
as the work of “pre-Palaeolithic Man,” until belief in them was
shaken by Barnes’s demonstration that on statistical analysis the Crag
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 435

flaking was of the high-angled type characteristic of the work of
nature.

Out of 1,800 measurements of platform-scar angles in 18 different
human industries, Barnes found less than 18 percent over 90°; but in
flaked flints from Eocene deposits over 54 percent of the flake scars
proved to have angles over 90°, while among flaked flints from the
Crag formations over 62 percent of the flake scars are more than 90°.
Professor Barnes concluded: “The high proportion of high-angle
scars in the Tertiary flints contrasts sharply with the paucity of high
angles in the human industries, and suggests that the Tertiary flaking

B. Natural Fractures.

Seren re i

“23 ¢€ SF 83 F 6 9G M4 2 KB HI 6

C. Human Work

Fic. 1.—Percentages of obtuse platform-scar angles found in: 4, eoliths in flint, including
Sub-Crag (J and 3); B, Naturally fractured stones, including flints crushed under cart
wheels (3) or broken in foundering of deposits (4), and chipped hard rocks in moraines (7);
C, human flint industries, mainly early, including Abbevillian (2), Acheulian (5-8, /2),
Tayacian (9, 10), and Mousterian (J3). (After A. S. Barnes, by courtesy of the editor
of American Anthropologist.)

was due to soil movements under pressure arising from solifluxion,
foundering, or ice action” (Barnes, 1943).

Warren reached a similar conclusion after prolonged study of the
character of the Crag flaking (1948) and, having reviewed the geo-
logical evidence, concluded that the Stone Bed and Bone Bed did not
accumulate as beach deposits, but on a submarine fioor, “which cannot
reasonably be supposed to have been available for human habitation.”
As about 50 percent of stones in some parts of the Stone Bed are flaked,
and as the deposit occupies several hundred square miles, a widespread
natural cause was most probably responsible for them. The striations
and bruisings which many of the Sub-Crag flints show are consistent
with Warren’s idea that the chief cause of the flaking was the ground-
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ing of floating ice (mainly local pack ice) which would have jammed
together patches of flints strewn on the floor of the shallow sea (War-
ren, 1948). Certain flakings strewn on an alleged land surface within
the Red Crag at Foxhall have been widely accepted as artifacts, even by
those who do not accept the Sub-Crag chippings. To my mind the
Foxhall “floor” is an enigma to be further investigated, rather than a
proof of the existence of man in Britain during the Villafranchian
stage.

If the Tertiary and Sub-Crag eoliths are unacceptable, what then
are the oldest undoubted artifacts? Certainly not those of the “Crome-
rian industry” which has proved to be nonexistent, consisting appar-
ently of flakings produced on the Cromer foreshore in recent times
by the concussion of one stone against another in storms. These flak-
ings occurred among a spread of big stones which had the appear-
ance of passing under the Forest Bed (Warren, 1940). The only
flaked flints found in situ at this site appear to have belonged to the
Stone Bed of the underlying Weybourne Crag. The ochreous patina
of the foreshore flakes was at one time regarded as proof of their antiq-
uity, but Warren found evidence that this patination is acquired in
a few years on the Cromer coast, possibly on account of the action
of some alga.

Recently Dr. Alfred Rust (1956) published an account of some
sandstone pebbles with chipped margins found in the Mauer Sands
of earliest Middle Pleistocene age which yielded the famous mandible
of “Homo” heidelbergensis.« He kindly gave me the opportunity to
examine his collection in 1956; but I must confess that I was unable
to find any among those from the Mauer Sands which I could un-
reservedly accept as possibly worked by man. Most of the local sand-
stone, even before it was weathered, is too coarse and friable to make
serviceable tools. Indeed, Heidelberg man could have cut more effec-
tively with flakes of the hard limestone (Muschelkalk) available in
the same valley.

In Europe we are left with the so-called Abbevillian hand axes
and dactonian flakes in the 40-meter terrace of the Somme as the
oldest unquestionable artifacts. The only question here is whether
the geological horizon of the “Abbevillian” is First Interglacial or
an interstadial within the Second Glaciation, which is by no means
impossible. (In fact, the same question applies to the Mauer Sands.)

When we turn to Asia we find that the oldest undoubted artifacts
are in the same time bracket, either immediately antedating or con-
temporary with some phase of the Second Glaciation. The Pre-Soan
flakes from the Boulder Conglomerate in the Punjab are not entirely
convincing, for they may have been produced by glacial action; but

*Now regarded as the European equivalent of Pithecanthropus.
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 437

there is no doubt about the chert chopping tool of Early Soan type
found at Locality 18, Choukoutien (China), in association with fauna
indicating a stratigraphic horizon within the period of the Second or
Mindel Glaciation. The slightly later flake-and-chopper-tool industry
associated with Peking man at Locality 1, Choukoutien, is now gen-
erally regarded as dating from the beginning of the Second Inter-
glacial period. Some authors still claim that it is older, either inter-
Mindel or even Giinz-Mindel, but the associated fauna is clearly Middle
Pleistocene in the modern sense.

In Africa, particularly south of the Sahara, high-level river gravels
of Lower Pleistocene age have been found to contain large numbers
of chipped pebbles, mainly of quartzite, which have been widely ac-
cepted as artifacts. These so-called pebble tools were first recognized
in Uganda by the geologist E. J. Wayland in 1920, who referred them
to a pre-Paleolithic stage of culture, later named Kafuan on the basis
of their typical occurrence on the 175-foot terrace of the Kafu River.
In a recent monograph on the prehistory of Uganda, the late Pro-
fessor van Riet Lowe described no less than 27 constantly recurring
forms of “Kafuan-type split and trimmed pebbles,” and claimed that
he and Wayland could trace the evolution of rostrocarinates from
the simple split pebble, thus providing a link with the discoveries in
East Anglia, where Moir found a gradation from rostrocarinates to
Chellean (Abbevillian) hand axes. Kafuan-type pebbles are even
found in a layer of lateritic ironstone at the base of the 270-foot Kagera
terrace which may be Lower Villafranchian or Pliocene. If there
were no question about their being artifacts, these chipped pebbles
would be the oldest evidence of a toolmaking hominid and would
support the idea of an almost infinitely slow evolution of the earliest
culture over some half a million years, from the end of the Pliocene
to the first hand axes.

As doubts grew about the artificiality of chipped flints in the
Tertiary and Villafranchian formations of Europe, belief waxed
strongly in favor of the African pebble tools, because these were not
in flint (which breaks so easily under a variety of forces), but in
quartzite and the like. Moreover, they were for the most part in
situations far removed from Pleistocene glaciers and pounding sea
waves which have produced such quantities of pseudoartifacts in
Europe.

Some prehistorians are now beginning to feel that the Kafuan peb-
bles ° have been accepted as artifacts without sufficient consideration
being given to the possibility that these also were fractured by nat-
ural forces. Should not quartzite gravels of, say, Triassic age be
searched for similar forms, to see if they are produced in circum-

® Excluding the “advanced Kafuan’’ of some authors, which is synonymous with the
unquestionably human Tarly Oldowan.
438 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

stances where no question of tool making arises? There is a great
need, too, for experimental work on the lines of that by the late Pro-
fessor Barnes and Mr. Warren, but designed to investigate the forces
required to split quartzite pebbles. My own extremely limited obser-
vations in Africa suggest that at least some Kafuan-like flakings are
produced when gravel is carried over waterfalls.° As for secondary
chipping, it should not be forgotten that soil creep or solifluxion can
occur under tropical conditions as well as under glacial.

One of my reasons for being skeptical about the Kafuan “pebble
tools” is their prodigality. In the summer of 1955 I was with a party
on safari through the Katanga Province of the Belgian Congo, and
we were taken by Prof. G. Mortelmans to an exposure of gravels at
Kafila near Elisabethville. Within a few minutes all the members
of the party had found more “pebble tools” in this gravel than they
could carry away. It is true that artifacts are astonishingly abun-
dant at some African localities on the later hand-ax horizons, but
the profusion of chipped pebbles in the Kafilan gravel reminded me
of the profusion of eoliths in the Sub-Crag Stone Bed. Miles Burkitt
evidently has similar reservations to make about the Kafuan pebbles,
for he wrote recently: “From a study of the objects themselves it is
not easy to find enough evidence to prove that they must be the handi-
work of Man and that the fracturing cannot have been produced by
natural forces.” There has been an undeniable tendency among us all
to argue subconsciously like this: “Man could have made these; they
are of the right age for the beginning of culture; this is where we
may expect to find artifacts; these are artifacts.”

Fortunately there are certain situations in which fractured stones
are acceptable as artifacts, even when the flaking appears random or
accidental. For example, many of the fragments of quartz in the
Choukoutien cave deposits would not be recognized as humanly struck
if they were found on the surface away from their human context.
The quartz found at Choukoutien is foreign to the site, and can only
have been introduced into the cave by human agency. Another situ-
ation in which flaked stones are more readily acceptable as artifacts is
where they occur isolated in an otherwise stoneless layer of lacustrine
mud or sand.

Tf we discount the Kafuan pebbles, the oldest undoubted artifacts in
the world are related to or equivalent to the Oldowan culture, first
recognized by Dr. L. S. B. Leakey in the basal bed of the series of la-
custrine sediments exposed in the side of the Oldoway (Olduvai)

6 Perhaps mainly when, under a semiarid climate, large masses of gravel are suddenly
moved over falls at the commencement of the rains, with the result that a proportion of
the stones collide out of water. Since this paper was published, Dr. J. D. Clark has demon-
strated that Kafuan-type flaking does occur through stones falling from the sides of
gorges and striking other stones or rock surfaces out of water (Proc. Prehist. Soc., vol. 34,
for 1958).
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 439

Gorge in northern Tanganyika. The associated fauna indicates that
Bed I of Oldoway is of early Middle Pleistocene age. The typical
Oldowan industry found in this bed consists of pebbles or other lumps
of rock flaked by percussion to form crude chopping tools “varying in
size from the dimensions of a ping-pong ball to that of a croquet ball.”
The chopping edges were made by removing flakes in two directions
along one side of the pebble or lump, so that the intersecting flake scars
formed a jagged cutting edge. The fact that occasionally these pebble
choppers foreshadow bifacial hand axes, and the fact that hand axes
appear and begin to replace pebble tools in Bed II, are indications
that the Abbevillian-Acheulian sequence of cultures evolved from the
Oldowan. The discovery of a few apparently Oldowan-type pebbles
in the Laetolil Beds of Tanganyika and in the Kanam Beds of Kenya
suggested that the beginnings of Oldowan culture were to be sought in
the Lower Pleistocene (Villafranchian) beds of Africa, but until quite
recently there has been an element of uncertainty about all pebble tools
from Villafranchian deposits.

Unquestionable stone industries closely comparable with the Oldo-
wan have now been found in North Africa and in South Africa in
fossil-bearing deposits of Late Villafranchian age. The northern oc-
currence was discovered by Prof. C. Arambourg in lake-margin de-
posits at Ain Hanech in Algeria, and consisted of quantities of pebbles
or stone lumps flaked in several directions to form subangular stone
balls that would have served equally well as missile stones or multi-
edged pounders. A few hand axes of Abbevillian type are reported as
coming from an immediately overlying layer. These Algerian indus-
tries are clearly the homotaxial equivalents of those in Beds I and II
at Olduvai.

The discovery in March 1958 of pebble tools of “advanced Kafuan”
(I would now say “Early Oldowan”) type in the calcified surface of
the Basal Older Gravels in the 200-foot terrace of the Vaal Valley in
South Africa was the first positive indication that toolmakers existed
in South Africa as early as the dry phase which terminated the First
(or Villafranchian) Pluvial period. The discovery raised a most in-
triguing problem, because cave deposits that accumulated during this
dry Late Villafranchian stage at Taung in Bechuanaland and at
Sterkfontein and Makapan in the Transvaal had yielded remains of
the subhuman Australopithecus. Was it possible that the pebble tools
had been made by that creature? Analyzing the evidence available
in 1954 I argued that it was possible, but I thought unlikely for two
reasons. In the first place, although the Australopithecines walked
upright on two legs and qualified structurally to be regarded as Ho-
minidae, rather than as true apes or Pongidae, nevertheless in abso-
lute size their brains were on an average no larger than those of apes.
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

All the known tool-making hominids had brains considerably larger
than those of apes. The earliest known toolmakers, the Chinese rep-
resentatives of the genus Pithecanthropus, had skulls with average
capacity about twice as great as that of Australopithecus. In the
second place, Professor von Koenigswald had reported remains of an
early Pithecanthropus in the Djetis Beds of Java which he claimed
were of Villafranchian age. In other words, Australopithecus and
Pithecanthropus evidently existed in the world contemporaneously,
and at Peking at least there was evidence that the latter was capable
of tool making. Thus it seemed most probable on the evidence avail-
able in 1954 that the pebble tools in the Vaal valley terrace had been
made by true men, of the Pithecanthropus group, who had penetrated
into South Africa before their more backward relatives the Australo-
pithecines had died out. The above hypothesis seemed to be strongly
supported by the absence of pebble tools from all the sites where re-
mains of Australopithecines had been discovered, suggesting that
although pebble toolmakers existed contemporaneously with the Aus-
tralopithecines, the two groups frequented different environments.

The whole picture has now been altered by further discoveries. Two
years ago, some possible pebble tools, mostly of dolomite, were found
in the gravel bed overlying the main Australopithecine deposit in the
Limeworks Cave at Makapan in the Transvaal. These were com-
mented on in Antiquity, vol. 30, p. 6, March 1956, and one of the
chipped pebbles was illustrated (pl. 11). There was considerable doubt
as to whether these were artifacts, and the general opinion was that
unless more convincing specimens came to light in the same bed they
were better discounted as evidence bearing on the cultural status of
Australopithecus.

In May 1956 Dr. C. K. Brain discovered indubitable pebble tools of
Oldowan type in the upper part of the Australopithecine breccias at
Sterkfontein in South Transvaal. This is possibly the most impor-
tant discovery in the field of paleoanthropology since the finding of
implements with Peking man. Excavations at Sterkfontein carried
out this year by Dr. J. T. Robinson and Revil Mason have confirmed
beyond all doubt that the artifacts observed by Brain are part of an
industry occurring in situ in a layer of breccia containing teeth of
Australopithecus.

It is worth reiterating that the hypothetical attribution of the
pebble tools, not to Australopithecines themselves, but to some higher
type of hominid living contemporaneously with Australopithecus in
the Transvaal, has rather depended on the assumption that the two
types would have occupied different ecological niches. As Bartholo-
mew and Birdsell (1953) pointed out: “By analogy with the ecology
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 44]

of other animals it would be surprising if man and the Australo-
pithecines 7 had remained contemporaries in the same area over very
long periods of time, for closely related forms with similar require-
ments rarely occupy the same area simultaneously.”

Fic. 2.—Two of the 58 stone artifacts found in layer of red-brown breccia containing teeth
of Australopithecus at Sterkfontein, Transvaal. Upper: Pebble-tool of Oldowan type, in
diabase, described as utilized hammerstone. Lower: Bifacially flaked core in quartzite,
possibly used as chopper; prototype of hand ax. It is noteworthy that diabase and
quartzite are foreign to the site, and therefore were carried there. (After R. J. Mason,
Archaeological Survey of S. Africa, by courtesy of the editors of Nature.)

Brain’s discovery has now shown that pebble tools were made at the
very site where Australopithecus occurred.

At the present time there is general agreement among paleonotolo-
gists that the Australopithecine breccia at Sterkfontein is of Late
Villafranchian (Lower Pleistocene) age. On the other hand Dr.

‘The authors were assuming that the Australopithecines were nontoolmakers, in contra-
distinction to man,
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

D. A. Hooijer’s further analysis of the fauna of the Djetis Beds in
Java, which contained the remains of the earliest known examples of
Pithecanthropus, has indicated that they are probably early Middle
Pleistocene and not Villafranchian as previously claimed by von
Koenigswald. While the last word on this question may not yet have
been said, it is nevertheless true to say that there is no undisputed
evidence that any hominids higher in type than Australopithecus were
in existence in the world at the time when the Sterkfontein tools were
manufactured.®

So it is only our belief that systematic tool making requires a larger
brain than the ape-size brain of Australopithecus (a belief which
may prove to be ill founded), that makes us hesitate to infer that the
Sterkfontein tools were probably made by that creature.

Another reason for doubting that the tools were made by Australo-
pithecus is the fact that “they have no background” at this or any
other Australopithecine site. No pebble tool or any kind of stone
artifact has been observed in the series of underlying layers at Sterk-
fontein which yielded relatively abundant Australopithecine skeletal
remains (traces of at least 16 individuals, including the skull known
as Sterkfontein 5 and the associated spinal column and pelvic girdle).
Robinson has suggested that the absence of pebble tools from the
underlying layers is against Australopithecus being a toolmaker “since
on all other Stone Age sites remains of the tool-manufacturer are ex-
tremely rare.” I believe the relevant point is that, cannibalism aside,
primates do not as a rule die or leave the remains of their dead at the
living place (Oakley, 1954b, p. 66). In other words the substantial
quantity of Australopithecine skeletal remains in the main bone-
bearing breccia at Sterkfontein is consistent with the late Dr. Broom’s
suggestion that the cave was originally a carnivores’ den rather than
the actual living place of the hominid.? The red-brown breccia con-
taining the stone tools (and a few isolated teeth of Australopithecus
and fragmentary animal remains) was, on the other hand, accumu-
lated at a time when the cave had temporarily become a site of hominid
occupation.

There are many related issues to be considered in the light of the
new evidence from Sterkfontein. For example, in the breccia of the
nearby site of Swartkrans, accumulated at a later date, numerous
remains of an aberrant Australopithecine named Paranthropus have

®The antiquity of the fragmentary mandible of Homo ef. sapiens recorded from the
Kanam Beds of Kenya is now considered too doubtful to stand in the way of this
generalization.

®° The evidence collected in South Africa recently indicating that modern hyenas do not
carry carcasses or bones into caves (Dart. 1957) has little bearing on the activities of ex-
tinct species or varieties of hyena. Behavior of mammals is modified in response to en-
vironmental, particularly biotopic, changes. There is evidence that under subglacial condi-
tions in Europe the hyena Crocuta took bones into caves, at least as long as competition by
man did not preclude it.
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 443

been found, also some fragments, including a lower jaw, referred to
a related form called “Z'elanthropus,” which Robinson believes may
have been the toolmaker. However, as the Swartkrans breccia is on
a later time horizon than the Sterkfontein tools, one feels hesitant in
attempting to explain the latter in terms of the former.”

If in fact Australopithecus was the maker of the Sterkfontein tools,
it would involve almost a revolution in our conception of “man.”
We have already seen that there is some doubt about the existence
of “Kafuan culture.” That is to say, there is no reliable evidence of
tool making before the Late Villafranchian time level. Is it possible
that systematic tool making arose, not gradually as most 19th-century
evolutionists led us to imagine, but suddenly, and spread rapidly ?

The Australopithecines must have originated as apes that became
adapted to life in open country by walking upright. There are
many reasons to suppose, as Dart, Bartholemew, and others have
shown, that the earliest hominids must have been tool users. Bipedal-
ism is initially disadvantageous biologically unless there is some com-
pensating factor—in the case of the hominids this was the ability to
use tools and wield weapons while moving. The early hominids sur-
vived in open country by becoming scavengers and hunters, and this
they were enabled to do by developing “extra-corporeal limbs” (as
O. G. S. Crawford once called tools and weapons), which could be
changed or discarded as circumstances dictated. The earliest tools
and weapons would have been improvizations with whatever lay ready
to hand. Although the hominids must have begun as occasional tool
users, ultimately they were only able to survive in the face of rigor-
ous natural selection by developing a system of communication among
themselves which enabled cultural tradition to take the place of
heredity. At this point systematic tool making replaced casual tool
using, and it may be that this changeover took place in the Australo-
pithecine stage.

It would not be surprising, in view of the close correlation between
culture and cerebral development, if there had been at this stage in-
tense selection in favor of larger brains, with the result that the tran-
sition from the small-brained Australopithecus to the larger-brained
Pithecanthropus took place in a comparatively short space of time.
The discoveries at Sterkfontein suggest that pebble tools may have
been made by Australopithecus, while Professor Arambourg’s finds at
Ternifine (“Atlanthropus”) indicate that by the time culture in Africa
had reached the beginning of the Acheulian stage the toolmakers had
attained the grade of Pithecanthropus.

10In any case some authorities doubt whether “Telanthropus” is separable from Australo-
pithecus (Le Gros Clark, 1958, p. 133.)
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

REFERENCES

ARAMBOURG, C.
1950. Traces possible d’une industrie primitive dans un niveau Villafran-
chien de l’Afrique du Nord. Bull. Soc. Préhist. Frang¢., vol. 47,
pp. 348-350.
1955. A recent discovery in human paleontology, Atlanthropus of Terni-
fine (Algeria). Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n.s., vol 13, No. 92.
pp. 191-196.
Batovut, L.
1955. Préhistoire de Afrique du Nord. Paris. (Ain Hanech, p. 159 ff.)
BaRNeEs, A. S.
1939. The differences between natural and human flaking on prehistoric
flint implements. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 41, pp. 99-112.
1943. High-angle edge flaking of flint. Nature, vol. 152, p. 477.

BaRTHOLOMEW, G. A., and BIRDSELL, J. B.
1953. Ecology and the protohominids. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 55, No. 4, pp.
481-498.

Brack, D.; TEILMHARD DE CHARDIN, P.; Youna, C. C.; and PEI, W. C.
1933. Fossil man in China: The Choukoutien cave deposits with a
synopsis of our present knowledge of the late Cenozoic in China.
Mem. Geol. Surv. China, ser. A, No. 11.

Broom, R.
1946. The oceurrence and general structure of the South African ape-man.
Transvaal Mus. Mem. No. 2, pp. 7-153.

Burkitt, M. C.
1956. Some early prehistoric cultures south of the Sahara. Scientia, vol. 91,
No. 10, pp. 8304-308 (esp. p. 306).
CrawForp, O. G. S.
1921. Man and his past. Oxford.
Dart, R. A.
1957. The osteodontokeratic culture of Auwustralopithecus prometheus.
Transvaal Mus. Mem. No. 10.
Hoorser, D. A.
1957. The correlation of fossil mammalian faunas and the Plio-Pleistocene
boundary in Java. Proc. Kon. Ned. Akad., Amsterdam, ser. B, vol.
60, No. 1.
KOENIGSWALD, G. H. R. VON.
1950. Fossil hominids from the Lower Pleistocene of Java. Rep. 18th Int.
Geol. Congr., 1948, pl. 9, pp. 59-61.
LEAKEY, L. S. B.
1951. Olduvai Gorge. Cambridge.
LE Gros CLARK, Sir WILFRID.
1958. Bones of contention. Journ. Roy. Anthrop. Inst., vol. 88, pp. 131-145.
Lowek, C. VAN RIET.
1952. The Pleistocene geology and prehistory of Uganda, Part II. Geol.
Sury. Uganda, Mem. No. 6.
Morr, J. R.
1927. The antiquity of man in East Anglia. Cambridge.
Movius, H. L.
1949. The lower palaeolithic cultures of southern and eastern Asia. Trans.
Amer. Philos. Soc., n.s., vol. 38, pt. 4. (Pre-Soan, p. 377, Locality 18,
p. 390.)
TOOLS MAKYTH MAN—OAKLEY 445

OAKLEY, K. P.
1949. Man the toolmaker. British Mus. (Nat. Hist.), London. (4th ed.,
1958.)

1954a. The dating of the Australopithecinae of Africa. Amer. Journ. Phys.
Anthrop., n.s., vol. 12, pp. 9-28.
1954b. Early man in Africa. South African Arch. Bull., vol. 9, pp. 64-68.
OBERMAIER, H.
1924. Fossil man in Spain. New Haven. (Good account of eolith con-
troversy, pp. 1-18.)

Per, W. C.
1934. Report on the excavation of the Locality 13 in Choukoutien. Bull,

Geol. Soc. China, vol. 18, No. 3, pp. 359-367.
RosINsON, J. T., and Mason, R. J.
1957. Occurrence of stone artifacts with Australopithecus at Sterkfontein.
Nature, vol. 180, pp. 521-524.

Rust, A.
1956. Artefakte aus der Zeit des Homo heidelbergensis in Siid- und Nord-

deutschland. Bonn.
WakkEN, S. H.
1940. Geological and prehistoric traps. Essex Nat., vol. 27, pp. 13-19.
1948. The Crag Platform: its geology and archaeological problem. S. E.
Nat. and Antiq., vol. 53, pp. 48-52.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institute, Washington 25, D.C.
i Ciel Vigil h, ;

exh ist, A yanA | si A, iG er lth wee % ot
atte dit i aay A it ik

ona ony By slat if Th wages f Aaya pobecds £5 stan

“id chow ty enins Bob) “aor li wie! carhlgyg®
we — aa eS oe
hE eal lanaldil se Pau icra gevitu dubts¢osaar aad Neb
i oe Ae Beit, Et Tow bated eee done’)

| iin ge TKL OS” AD URN ay eee Meat Go ney

ficia Lita a sara ee Ase Bh ea er alive odateto ey site Wels: WQS:
1 Wea Te i Rie § A at © Of

pehitiwe SLi ob ERG ha sk shtiantS “4a sote is “ON Dy ae aides
HO Baraicl sito
Hs

Prep TS) Re hai eee eis #f Dyke val sr r Tra tual peloaDy

hee
, iin @ {
8 aebl iy abhelosedinn bad) vaahowe ai) VbroT A ato ait
# er ante Ee 0) A ie 1M a!

4 '¥ ine - y i" i ‘- '
A RT) Ss 1 Lalas 9 > rr tenet sagan Aart Mt aathcnhe | can wey
» Le .

ay sit f ae be feidg a0.¥ (oC e
ait ts _ wildastt baw indir ba
RE Be aa . |
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell PLATE 1

FRONTISPIECE. :

An American Indian contemplating the

From ‘‘A Pictorial History of the United States,” by S. G. Goodrich. Philadelphia, 1845.
The Backwash of the Frontier: The Impact

of the Indian on American Culture’

By A. Irving HALLOWELL
Department of Anthropology, University of Pennsylvania

[With 8 plates]

AurnoucH Frederick Jackson Turner and his disciples have made
little point of the influence of the American Indian upon our civiliza-
tion, it is the Indian’s continuing presence throughout our whole
colonial and national history that has given many aspects of our cul-
ture aspecial coloring. In this respect, our national experience differs
from that of any western European nation, though our culture is
continuous with that of Europe. Recently, Bernard De Voto has
stressed the manifold nature of this unique historical situation and its
neglect by historians ?:

Most American history has been written as if history were a function solely of
white culture—in spite of the fact that till well into the nineteenth century the
Indians were one of the principal determinants of historical events. ‘Those
of us who work in frontier history—which begins at the tidal beaches and when
the sixteenth century begins—are repeatedly nonplused to discover how little
has been done for us in regard to the one force bearing on our field that was
active everywhere. Disregarding Parkman’s great example, American his-
torians have made shockingly little effort to understand the life, the societies,
the cultures, the thinking, and the feeling of the Indians, and disastrously little
effort to understand how all these affected white men and their societies.

It is discernible Indian influences of this sort that have formed
what I have called “the backwash of the frontier,” fertile silt carried
on the currents and eddies left by the turmoil on the borderlands.
Many other factors besides frontier conditions were involved in the
further development of these influences—factors too complex to
analyze here. And the problem is complicated by the extreme di-
versity of America’s reactions to the Indian and his cultures; by the
manner in which Indian influences have been mediated, the varying

1 Reprinted, by permission of the copyright owners, the Regents of the University of
Wisconsin, from The Frontier in Perspective (Walker D, Wyman and Clifton B. Kroeber,
editors), 1957, the University of Wisconsin Press.

2 Joseph K. Howard, “Strange Empire,” p. 8. New York. 1952.

447
4925205930
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

forms they have assumed at different periods of our national existence,
and their depth. Most often they have been manifested at the vernacu-
lar level of American culture, one expression of our cultural provin-
cialism, which is perhaps the reason so little systematic attention has
been paid to them. Our contacts with the Indians have affected our
speech, our economic life, our clothing, our sports and recreations,
certain indigenous religious cults, many of our curative practices,
folk and concert music, the novel, poetry, drama, and even some of
our basic psychological attitudes, and one of the social sciences,
anthropology.

To the outside world there is a closer association of the Indian with
the image of America than perhaps we are aware of. For example,
Cooper’s “The Last of the Mohicans” is not only read by every Amer-
ican schoolchild, but it has been said to be the best-known American
novel in the world. So too, “Hiawatha,” Longfellow’s poetic image of
the Indian, is widely read and translated in other countries. Ivan
Bunin, the Russian poet and novelist, “is probably as well recognized
for his translation of ‘Hiawatha’ as for any of his original works.” §

Americans have created a whole succession of images of the Indian,
some literary and interpretative, some growing out of direct contact
of particular types of white men with him and changing with his-
torical circumstances. Although the Pope declared as far back as
1512 that the natives of America were descended from Adam and Eve,
in colonial New England Cotton Mather thought that “probably the
Devil decoy’d ... [them] . . . hither, in hopes that the gospel of the
Lord Jesus Christ would never come here to destroy or disturb his
absolute empire over them.” As God’s elected agents and under his
“wonder-working Providence,’ the colonists must convert these
“tawney serpents” or annihilate them. However, the Indian was
never simply The Enemy. On the earliest frontiers, the colonists were
befriended by the natives. Who has not heard of Squanto? White
men from the beginning profited in many practical ways from the
Indians’ knowledge of their own country and through intimate con-
tacts learned about their customs, manner of thought, and character,
and were influenced by them.

During the 18th century, when in England and on the Continent a
literary image of the noble savage, partly derived from ideas about
the Indian, was being created, the colonists greatly deepened their
firsthand knowledge of the American natives. Trading activities
brought tribal groups over a wider range into contact with the colon-
ists. The Indians were not always fought against; on occasion they
were comrades-in-arms, and aboriginal methods of fighting influenced

8Clarence Golides, The reception of some nineteenth-century American authors in
Europe, in “The American Writer and the European Tradition,” ed. Margaret Denny and
W. H. Gilman, p. 116. Minneapolis. 1950.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 449

the colonists. The speeches made by Indians in treaty negotiations
aroused so much interest in native oratory that a novel literary form,
with no prototype in Europe, emerged. Verbatim reports of these
conferences were widely circulated and read in printed form. It
has even been said that information about the organization and
operation of the League of the Iroquois, which Franklin picked up
at various Indian councils, suggested to him the pattern for a United
States of America. In any case it was Franklin whose appreciation
of the attitude of the Indians toward their own culture led him to
express the anthropological principle of the relativity of culture
norms when, in 1784, he wrote: “Savages we call them, because their
manners differ from ours, which we think the Perfection of Civility:
they think the same of theirs.” ¢

As the eastern frontier receded westward and for most Americans
the contemporary Indians could be viewed at a comfortable distance,
it was their decline that became a romantic literary theme. As ex-
pressed in poetry, drama, and the novel, it was an early backwash
of the frontier. But it was by no means always the noble savage
that was depicted; a double image was created—the savage as ignoble
as well as noble. During this period, the first half of the 19th cen-
tury, when the Indian was such a popular figure in American litera-
ture, it is particularly significant that most of the authors who dealt
with Indian themes derived their information from written sources
rather than from direct observation. Cooper depended on Hecke-
welder’s writings, and Longfellow on Schoolcraft’s “Algic Re-
searches” (1839). It has been said that “Cooper poured the
prejudices of John Heckewelder into the Leatherstocking mold, and
produced the Indian of nineteenth century convention.” *® The authors
who were busy writing about the Indians were far removed from the
men who faced them on the new frontiers.

Two and a half centuries after Englishmen on the eastern frontier
faced the Indian, American frontiersmen in the Mississippi Valley
and the Far West found themselves in a parallel situation and re-
garded him in much the same hostile light—the Indian blocked the
path of America’s “manifest destiny.” In 1867, the Topeka Weekly
Leader spoke for the West when it characterized the Indians as “a
set of miserable, dirty, lousy, blanketed, thieving, lying, sneaking,
murdering, graceless, faithless, gut-eating skunks as the Lord ever
permitted to infect the earth, and whose immediate and final exter-
mination all men, except Indian agents and traders, should pray for.” ®

‘Alfred O. Aldridge, Franklin’s deistical Indians, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soe., vol. 94,
p. 398, 1950.

6 Paul A. W. Wallace, John Heckewelder’s Indians and the Fennimore Cooper tradition,
{bid., vol. 96, p. 500, 1952.

® Robert Taft, “Artists and Illustrators of the Old West, 1850-1900,” p. 66. New York.
1953.
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

eee eo eae
eee ee

A

TREAT Y’of FRIENDSHIP, é&c:

September, 1736.

bd 4 E Chiefs of the Six Nations having been expected at Phi-
ladelpbia thefe four Years paft, to confirm the Treaty made

with fome of them, who eame down in the Year 1733,
“Oe T 6. Conrad Wyfer our Interpreter, about the Beginning of this
Month, advifed from Tulpyhokin, that he had certain Intel-
Hk ks ligence "from fome Indians fent before him, that there was 2
large Number of thofe People with their Chiefs, arrived at
Shamokin on Sa/quehannab ; wpon which he was direéted to repair thither to
attend them, and fupply them with Neceffaries in their Journey hither.
On the Twenty -feverth of this Month, about a Hundred or more of them
came with Conrad to the Prefident’s Houfe, at Stenton, being near the Road,
where fuitable Entertainment was provided for them; and the next Day
the Honourable the Proprietor, and fome of the Council, with other Gen-
tlemen coming thither from Philadelphia; after Dinner

A Council was held at Stenton, September 28. 1736.
PRESENT,
The Honourable THOMAS PENN, Efq; Proprietary.
F¥AMES LOGAN, Efq; Prefadent.

Samuel Pre Ralph Asfbeton g :
Clement Be mfted, Thomas Crifftts, Efqrs;

And the following Indian Chiefs, to wit.

Of the TTANANDOWANS ONANDAGOES.
or SINEKAS. Kabiskerowane (Brother to
Kanickbungo, Speaker. their former great Chief
Togach/{bakoloo, Conof ions at Albany}
Sagoyatundachquat, Tagunbuntee,
Askotax, Kaxhaayn,
Hetaquantegechty, Speaker. Kuchdachary,

Saweegatce-0.

CAYOOGES,

Fics. 1 and 2 (on opposite page).—Title pages of the published accounts of two Pennsyl-
vania Indian treaty conferences of the type widely read for their literary value in the
18th century.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—-HALLOWELL 4

A

Be eA TY

HE LD \\ BY.

COMMISSIONERS,

MemMBEeERs of the COUNCIL of the

ProvincE of PENNSYLVANIA,

At the Town of LANCASTER,

| With fome Curersof the SIX NATIONS at OHIO, andif
others, for the Admiffion of the Twicurwee Nation into the
Alliance of his Majesty, &c. in the Month of Fuly, 1748.

PIA DIE LP a TA:

j| Printed and Sold by B. FRANKLIN, at the New|
Printing-Office, near the Market. MDCCXLYVIII.

Fic. 2
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Cotton Mather’s terser characterization of the “tawney serpents”
seems almost mild and dignified beside this scathing blast.

Wrestling with his own day-to-day problems, with the Long Hairs
not far off, the trans-Mississippi frontiersman was in no position to
appreciate the extent to which the Indians already had affected
American culture. And it would be interesting to know how many
Americans on this frontier had read “Hiawatha.” Certainly, few of
them could have imagined that, when the West was won and the
Indians were safely settled on reservations, native arts and crafts
would be appreciated for their esthetic values and widely exhibited,
musicians and poets would visit these remaining enclaves of Indian
culture to study their music and songs at firsthand, and a museum de-
voted exclusively to the preservation and exhibition of Indian objects
would be established in the largest city of the Nation. What would
have surprised them more, perhaps, if they could have looked at a
Boy Scout Handbook of the 20th century, is the statement that it “is
a pity that most boys think of headdresses, war whoops, tomahawks,
and scalps the instant Indians are mentioned. . . . There are so many
thousands of beautiful and desirable things in their lives that it is
safe to say that they can offer boys a mighty good code of sport and
happiness.” And among the other things that would strike the
frontiersman forcibly would be the requirement that, in order to win
a merit badge in Indian lore, the Boy Scout must learn the Omaha
Tribal Prayer. Yes, the Omaha, one of those dastardly Siouan
tribes—the gut-eating skunks!

But if the Midwestern frontiersman had been interested enough,
he would have discovered that the word “skunk,” which he could so
glibly hurl at the Long Hairs as a derogatory epithet, was derived
from an Indian language and had entered American speech in the
17th century. The borrowing of words as well as traits of Indian cul-
ture, like the use of corn, had been going on for a long time. Re-
ferred to by anthropologists as cultural diffusion, this kind of cultural
borrowing is a process that has been occurring throughout the entire
history of man. It has been one of the main stimuli of cultural
change. When people of different cultures meet and social inter-
action takes place, this situation inevitably eventuates in some cultural
borrowing on the part of either or both peoples.

In the past two decades, cultural anthropologists in this country
have devoted increasing attention to detailed studies of the effects of
Euro-American culture upon the Indians, that is, acculturation,
rather than confining themselves, as was once the case, primarily
to the collection of data that would make it possible to reconstruct
an ethnographic picture of aboriginal life in its undisturbed form.
On the other hand, although recognizing that in principle accul-
turation is seldom if ever a one-way process, anthropologists have
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—-HALLOWELL 453

paid scarcely any attention to the total effects upon American cul-
ture of our continuing contacts with Indians.

One of the things that anthropologists have discovered is that
while Indians may “clothe” themselves, so to speak, with many of
the accouterments of white man’s culture, this is often no more
than skindeep. Even when the Indian is brought into close contact
with the white man for more than a generation, and despite mission-
ary efforts and educational opportunities, there is a psychological lag
to be taken into account which indicates a dimension of the accultu-
ration process about which we know too little.

In contrast to this side of the acculturalization picture in the United
States, it is interesting to recall, when white adults, and especially
children, were captured in the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries by
many different groups of Indians and lived among them in daily in-
timacy, the apparent ease with which these individuals adjusted them-
selves to Indian culture. Turner speaks of the “occasional instances
of Puritans returning from captivity to visit the frontier towns, Cath-
olic in religion, painted and garbed as Indians and speaking the Indian
tongue, and the halfbreed children of captive Puritan mothers.”
While there were many hundreds of white captives taken, we have
detailed and reliable information on only a few cases, including indi-
viduals who were abducted as children. These “white Indians” often
refused to return to the mode of life into which they had been born,
even when given an opportunity.’?. In the 18th century Crévecoeur
asked: “By what power does it come to pass, that children who have
been adopted when young among these people, can never be prevailed
on to readopt European manners?” Such individuals sometimes for-
got their native speech, like Cynthia Ann Parker, captured by the
Comanches in 1886 at the age of 9. When recaptured by the whites
as a grown woman, all she could remember was her name. Other
captives praised Indian character and morals and some of them
adopted an Indian world view and religious beliefs. It was said of
Mary Jemison, abducted in 1758 at the age of 15, that “she was as
strong a pagan in her feelings as any Indian,” that all her religious
ideas conformed to those of the Senecas, and that “the doctrine taught
in the Christian religion she is a stranger to.” Of William Failey,
abducted in 1837, his brother-in-law and biographer wrote: “In fact,
his long residence among the Indians has made him an Indian.” Don
Ryan in “The Warriors’ Path” (1937) and Conrad Richter in “The
Light in the Forest” (1953) have given this theme modern novelistic
treatment. The latter book was soon republished in paperback form
(1954), and Walt Disney has made a movie of it.

Benjamin Franklin must have been highly impressed by the atti-

7 Erwin H. Ackerknecht, White Indians, Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 15, pp. 26, 30, 1944.
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

tude which the Six Nations assumed toward the values of their own
culture as compared with that of the whites. An anecdote, in several
forms, appears in his writings which presumably was derived from
the considered response these Indians made when, during the Lan-
caster conference in 1744, it was suggested that if they so desired some
of their boys might be sent to Williamsburg for a white education.
The Iroquois countered with the proposition that “if the English
Gentlemen would send a Dozen or two of their children to Onondago,
the great council would take care of their Education, bring them up
in really what was the best Manner and make men of them.” ®

These Indians not only felt secure in their own values; they felt
free to appraise those of the white man. And the captives who be-
came “white Indians” discovered that the actual manner of life of the
natives was something other than the literary images of the noble
savage or the fiendish red man. The Indian cultures contained values
which the white child could assimilate, live by, and in adulthood re-
fuse to relinquish. Old White Boy and all his sons became Seneca
chiefs. Even aside from captives, there were white men on the frontier
who became semiacculturated to Indian ways. Sam Houston, in his
early days, lived with the Cherokees. It has not been sufficiently
stressed that Leatherstocking, the most famous internationally of all
characters in American fiction, falls into this category. Although a
white man by “natur,” he had Indian “gifts.” He is said to have “ac-
quired some knowledge of most of the Indian dialects.” During his
early life, he lived among the Delawares and long before they called
him Deerslayer, he had successively borne three other Indian nick-
names. On occasion, he identified himself with the Delawares and
their aboriginal values. When contemplating torture by the Hurons,
he says he will strive “not to disgrace the people among whom I got my
training.” And the Huron chiefs, uncertain about his return from the
brief furlough granted him, entertained “the hope of disgracing the
Delawares by casting into their teeth the delinquency of one held in
their villages.” While they would have preferred to torture his In-
dian comrade Chingachgook, they thought the “pale face scion of the
hated stock was no bad substitute for their purposes.” Quite aside
from his characterization as the honest, resourceful, intrepid frontiers-
man and scout, the uniqueness of Leatherstocking as the first white
man in fiction represented as acculturated in his youth to Indian
languages, customs, and values, should not be overlooked.

From a contemporary vantage point, I believe that our relations
with the Indians involve one distinct peculiarity which might have
been difficult to predict at an earlier period of our history. Despite
our achievement of political dominance, considerable race mixture,
and the effects of acculturation on the native peoples, neither the In-

8 Aldridge, Franklin's deistical Indians, p. 399.
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell

‘aye1s oy] 1v pouing Buleq siojysnep pjo-rvaA-g] UIM) s

C6LT Ul poysttqnd Ay[eulsiio ‘satiojs AyANdes uvripuy fo
CxvTIod WILYVAD V Tord) |
‘OOQ9r
“SAAVLSHOIH ‘811 ON ‘ATUVO ATHLVW Yor
YAZLIAMS AYNAH Ad GILNNd
‘'VIHdTIiGVIIHd

“ONINOLM EV SENTN
“TILLIS FHL JO NOILOAUXLSACT FHL AO i

LNNOODY NV HLIM 7

*LONNOHOS NOSHOV! JO STUALNIA
“GY VidVNYVINAU—'NOSNINTIM WALID
40 SONIVGIANS ANY STYALNIAGY—NOSIaUIH
ASSVKI 4O NOLLISOdIG—’LUVMALS OVVSI “LtvD
30 SHUNLNTAGY— NVWOM VY 3G AYGAVUT AUVNia
“YOVULXAI— SADVAVS OML GNV NVW ALINM ¥ NAIM Lag
WALNNOINA NY ATINVA %.ATHUYOO NHO!i JO SONIWIaanS

AHL ‘azqqv 2uv HOIHM OL

DARL Il Ter es

Eas 3

iy
fy

SNITHNVW OLYACAUA

i

I

x0

WIdyURT] SMOYS SULAVIZUD OY, T,
AZojoylue uv jo o8ed 91 pue soatdstquo1y

SASSUULSIA TNAAGvaua

ZJHL AO

a OO ES: El

OJNILOAAA V

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell PLATE 3

Deh-ge-wa-nus [Mary Jemison], “the golden-haired Seneca,” in full Indian
costume carrying her baby on a cradleboard. Bronze statue in Letch-
worth State Park, New York.
PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell

IV fo Aloq]eyy [BUOTIe AY 941 jo

‘usIsaq] ULTIIWIY Jo Xopuy

Asoq.1n09 ydeisojoyg

“(SO6I-SE81) JoIYD Uuerpuy

p9.o0u

cc OOP J-9YI-Ul-UIe YT a

XNOI§ BIOTEC, YON
uvIpUyT

qoddnd-purzy 7

*UIST[ BOT aylplensod fos
AIN{UII-YI6T oy} O} JTetjrure

[dwexa eu WY *ousos
J OS UPIPUT 310}s-1e3ID

I

PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1958,.—Hallowell

CQFRT {UOdaTJOD UvIPUy UPoTIOWY YON stp] YIM odoingy Ul souopisoy pur soars], Siva A 1YSZIq JO soJONy S,Ul]Ied),, WO)
_(UONDaT[OO oY} UI saInjoRfNUeUT ULIPUT pue ssuNuted 19430 Ule]dxo 0} panutjuod | “JISIA JOW OF e UO dJOYI JOU PeY oY YSIYM sousos Jelly
pequosep oY a[IYM WOOL dy} PUNOIe Wot? UdyeI pey oY Joye puv Suo!Da]]09 Au Ul ‘spudtsy snonysnyft fo Joquinu ev yyiM ‘ulese Aysafepy sty our T,,

_-

—— Sa = FTE e—__—

tal is =

yh dct Wa ‘| \\\

Coy Ox ass g

[Face sree

PLATE 6

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell

C8F8T .UOHsa[[0D uvIpUy UBTAWY YON sty yim odoing ut souapisoy pue spoavsy,
S1P9X IYSIY JO SION SuIpeD,, WOT) .,"}8919]UI s}f 0} YONUI ppe O} pautoas I Jo Sutuvaur 9y7 fo uonvuridxs Aw pur Yrids yvo1s yIIM
aAvs AVY} YIYM “oouvp-9]Sva oY} “OPINOAL] Joy] sem poqajes Ady} IsIy ay, ‘oourp ev JO}; Suliedaid 10M ‘punoie adid 04} sutssed pur
‘aP4Id B UT saAyaswoy? paievas Ay. Udy “oIa ‘suodvam ‘sauuNjsoo Joy] JO uOIeUIWIeXD Uv pue*** Woy? YUM UotesIaAuOD ul passed
SeM 9IOUI JO INOY Uv Fey “poonposjUl useq SulAvY sforyd oy? puv “osorv [[e suelpuy ayy ‘Aqred [ekoy dy pue Apr] oy) jo yoroidde oy 1yV,,

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell PLATE 7

American Indian motif, created by Tom Two Arrows, talented young Indian artist, inter-
preted on fine china. (Courtesy of H. E. Lauffer Co., Inc., New York City.)
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Hallowell PLATE 8

figure l.

10WN In

. Detail of corn fence sl

N
|
ie}
ad
a,
=
&
vo
bs
pi
eH
>
n
er
Joi
wy
« ae)
'~ OQ
1 4
eM
Z oD
Ls ie)
= =
©
#
os Ay
S
w
2)
S
o
TE,
4
«
ra

a

over gate is cotton.

1. Front gate of corn fence, 1448 Prytania

BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 455

dian nor his culture has completely vanished from our midst. The
question arises, have the Indian cultures of the postfrontier period com-
pletely ceased to influence us? The answer is no. One effect of the
reservation system has been the conservation of those aspects of the
native cultures that had survived all the vicissitudes of previous con-
tacts with the white race. A new potential source of influence on our
20th-century culture was created. Before we can turn to the nature
of this influence, however, it is necessary to obtain the wider historic
perspective that a more systematic consideration of the older lines of
influence will provide us.

In the first place, it could have been predicted that, as a result
of the colonization of the New World, loan words would appear in
various Indo-European languages that could be traced to aboriginal
American languages. Besides the nouns borrowed to designate objects
unknown in England, there are many expressions in American English
that reflect Indian influence—burying the hatchet, Indian summer,
Indian giver, happy hunting ground, and war paint, used by the
American woman. Puck as a slang expression for dollar harks back
to the Indian fur trade when prices had reference to beavers or buck-
skins. Place names of Indian origin are, of course, legion—the names
of 26 States, 18 of our largest cities, thousands of small towns, most
of the long rivers and large lakes, and a few of the highest mountains
are of Indian derivation.

Having come to a country new to them, it was inevitable that the
colonists, whose traditional culture had not prepared them to live as
they had to live here, should be influenced by those aspects of Indian
culture that had immediate practical advantages in daily life. In
any case, the determinative importance of the fact that this was not
in any sense a virgin land must not be forgotten. The countless
generations of Indians had left their imprints upon the landscape.
Without the plow, the soil had been cultivated, and the raising of
native crops was as typical over wide areas as was hunting and fishing.
It is still debatable how far the actual virgin terrain had been radically
modified by burning, girdling, and tilling. There were narrow forest
trails, trodden by moccasined feet, that were already old, and the
whites made use of them in their own system of overland communica-
tion, developing some of them into highways eventually connecting
great centers of American civilization. Then there were the earth-
works of an older Indian population in the Old Northwest Territory
which influenced the patterning of some early white settlements. The
“pilgrims” who founded Marietta, Ohio, found it convenient to moor
their flatboats “at the foot of a raised terrace the Mound Builders had
once used as an avenue between their temple and the river.” Circle-
ville takes its name from the fact that in the laying out of the original
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

town, concentric circles of aboriginal earthworks were closely fol-
lowed by the outlying streets. An octagonal courthouse, surrounded
by a circular green, became the hub of the town. And it is said that
“in the Wabash River bottoms, in the early spring, many farmhouses
stand high and dry on a wooded burial mound while all the fields are
under water.” ®

Among the early settlers, communication by water was everywhere
the most important. While they were familiar with certain types
of watercraft in their own culture, they and their descendants have
been influenced by at least two types used by the Indians, the Chesa-
peake Bay log canoe and the bark canoe of the north.

From a European point of view, the Indians wearing moccasins,
leggings, and breechclouts were considered to be relatively naked
compared to themselves. However, considered in a very broad
culture-historical perspective, their own style and that of the
aborigines shared a generic trait in common: throughout the
boreal regions of the Northern Hemisphere, clothing of the fitted
or tailored type prevails, standing in marked contrast to the un-
tailored style once found in the ancient Mediterranean region,
Africa, and Central and South America. In all these latter regions,
for example, nothing like the fitted footgear represented by the
boot, shoe, or moccasin is found. While the practice never spread
beyond the frontier itself, nevertheless there were white men who
adopted the wearing of not only Indian moccasins, but leggings
and a breechclout as well. The moccasin, of course, is the most
noted item of Indian clothing that was used by white men very early.
It was a fitted type of footgear, and if the colonists had been Romans,
this item of clothing might not have been borrowed so quickly, or
its use continued. Turner has noted that the General Court of Mas-
sachusetts once ordered 500 pairs each of snowshoes and moccasins
for use in the frontier counties. Much later, footgear of this type
was used by lumbermen. In the backwoods of Manitoba in the 1930’s,
a clergyman of my acquaintance always wore a pair of his best beaded
moccasins in the pulpit on Sundays. It would be interesting to know
more about the commercialization of the moccasin type of shoe which
we see increasingly on the feet of Americans today.

It was, however, the discovery of the plants cultivated by the New
World aborigines that from the very first produced the most pro-
found impact on both European and American culture, revolution-
izing the food economy and diet of Old World peoples and at the
same time laying one of the foundations on which was to rise the
distinctive structure of American agriculture. Of the several
plants—maize, beans, pumpkins, squash, and others—maize in partic-

® Walter Havighurst, ‘‘Land of Promise, the story of the Northwest Territory,’ pp. 24—
25, 158. New York. 1946.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 457

ular was important from the start, taking precedence over the grain
which the settlers had brought from Europe. It became a primary
factor in the acculturation of the Englishmen to an American way
of life. We need think only of corn on the cob, cornbread, Indian
pudding, hominy, mush, grits, succotash, and corn sirup; of break-
fast cereals, cornstarch, and popcorn; or of corncob pipes and bour-
bon, to understand the extent of this Indian contribution to our
civilization today.

Tobacco is an equally significant “gift” of the American Indians,
symbolized by the once-familiar figure of the “wooden Indian” in-
extricably linked with the tobacco shop in the 19th century. The
history and use of it in our culture present a number of features in
cultural borrowing at large. Readaptation to the values of the bor-
rowing people is well illustrated. The consumption of tobacco was
completely divorced from the ceremonial context in which it appeared
among the Indians and became purely secular.

Peruvian bark, now known as quinine, proved highly sensational
since it was a specific for malaria. It reached Spain before the
middle of the 17th century and was soon introduced into the English
colonies. In Virginia, Governor Berkeley said in 1671 that whereas
formerly one person in five had died of fever in his first year, now al-
most no one succumbed. When one considers that in this same century
Governor Winthrop’s famous remedy for ulcers consisted of “one
ounce of crabbe’s eyes and four ounces of strong wine vinegar,” the
general state of colonial medicine can be well appreciated, and the
reason why Peruvian bark, an Indian herbal, achieved such high fame
can be easily understood. Indian medicine was likewise given a boost
when, in 1738, Dr. John Tennent was awarded 100 pounds by the
Virginia House of Burgesses for curing pleurisy with Seneca rattle-
snake root. As William Fenton well says, when Western medicine
met Indian herbalism, the former “was still carrying a heavy burden
of medieval practices so that the first few physicians in the colonies
were but several centuries advanced from the Indian shaman who
selected his herbs thinking of the effect that their appearance might
contribute to the disease, and guaranteed their efficiency with incan-
tations and feats of magic. Moreover, the average settler had brought
from the Old World a knowledge of herbs that in kind was not
unlike that of the Indian, but as newcomers they were unfamiliar
with New World plants, and although the level of their own popular
medicine did not set them above adopting Indian remedies, the Indian
herbalist whose knowledge was power was not always a ready
teacher.” ?° In “The Pioneers,” Cooper pictures for us how “Doctor”
Elnathan Todd managed to steal one of John Mohegan’s remedies.

270 W. N. Fenton, Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine, Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst. for 1941, pp. 505-506.
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Popular confidence in Indian medicine remained strong during the
early 19th century, when the population was flowing over the Appa-
lachians. The “yarb and root” doctor, red or white, played a prom-
inent role in many communities. In 1813 in Cincinnati there was
published “The Indian Doctor’s Dispensatory.” Other books fol-
lowed, including Selman’s “The Indian Guide to Health” (1836) and
Foster’s “The North American Indian Doctor, or Nature’s Method
of Curing and Preventing Disease According to the Indians” (1838).
In a lecture given at the New York Academy of Medicine in 1936,
Dr. Harlow Brooks (emeritus professor of clinical medicine, New
York University) said:

The universal testimony of those qualified to judge has been that even within
the memory of my generation we have incorporated into our pharmacopoeia and
practice a good many practices and drugs of our Indian predecessors. ...
The leading doctor in my boyhood memory, in the district in which my parents
settled, was an old Sioux medicine man, whose services were considered by the
territorial government so valuable that when his tribe was removed to a reser-
vation he was asked to remain with his white patients, among whom were
my own parents. I am sure that much of the medicine I received as an infant
and child was derived directly from the lore of this fine, learned, and much
respected old man. In those days it was on the service of these men that our
pioneers relied for medical help; otherwise, little or none at all was avail-
able to the early settler.”

What is particularly interesting is not merely the incorporation
in our pharmacopoeia of some aboriginal drugs, but the positive
attitude toward Indian medicine and charms that has persisted into
the 20th century. For instance, old Seneca families still sell
wild flowers and sassafras on certain street corners in Buffalo, and
the Pamunkey Indians of Virginia until a decade ago went to Wash-
ington every spring to sell sassafras and other herbs. In “Triple
Western” (fall, 1954) there is a short item on “Medicine Man’s
Wisdom.”

The potencies attributed to Indian herbal remedies have had still
other manifestations in our culture, an important one being the med-
icine show. While not all these shows made use of the Indian,
most of them did. It has been said that “as a symbol” the native
“was as important to the med-show platform as the wooden Indian
was to the tobacco shop.” It exploited the image that had already
been created of him as a “healer.” When Chief Chauncey Kills-in-
the-Bush Yellow Robe died, eulogies appeared in the theatrical press.
Rolling Thunder, the owner of the Kiowa Indian Medicine and Vaude-
ville Company, commented on these as follows:

It is fine to see this intelligent recognition of the life work of an Indian.

Too many people have always thought of the American Indian as next to a
beast. There are some who are now learning the truth: that the Indian’s drug-

4 Harlow Brooks, The contribution of the primitive American to medicine, in I. Goldston
(ed.), “Medicine and Mankind,” p. 87. New York. 1936.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 459

store was always the field and the forest, where the herbs he uses in his medi-
cines are gathered as God placed them for him to use, and God gave the Indian
the knowledge to gather and compound them. That is why the Indian as a
healer has been a success.”

The authors of “Show Biz” say that “when the Kickapoo Indian
Medicine Company went on the block in 1911, after 30 years roaming
the American plains and hamlets, it still brought $250,000. At one
time, there were 150 medicine shows on the road, all of them featuring
one or more Kickapoo Indians.” * It may be pointed out in passing
that at the same time that the image of the Indian as a healer was
being exploited in the medicine show, the old image of him as a
bloodthirsty enemy was being dramatized by the Wild West show
that William F. Cody took on the road in 1883 and which in various
incarnations and imitations continued until 1931, when the 101 Ranch
closed down.

The red man also became involved in another characteristic area
of American cultural development in the years before the Civil War—
religion. In Spiritualism, the United Society of Believers (Shakers),
and the Church of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), the American In-
dians had special significance for the founders or adherents, <Ac-
cording to Shaker tradition, “it was a native of the forest who first
recognized the saintliness of Mother Ann. One poor Indian saw a
bright light around her, and prophesied that the Great Spirit had
sent her to do much good. In another story it is related that when
Ann was returning from her eastern mission, she was met at the
Albany ferry by a number of Indians, who joyfully cried: ‘The
good woman is come! The good woman is come!’”?* What other
religious sect in the world has turned to an aboriginal people for
validation of the saintliness of the founder? Besides this, some
of the Shaker “gift songs” received in trance came from Indian
spirits. Once the spirits of a whole tribe of Indians, who had died
before Columbus discovered America and had been wandering home-
less ever since, turned up at a Shaker meetinghouse, where they were
made welcome. As described by an eyewitness, more than a dozen of
the Shakers present became possessed by these Indian guests. A
pow-wow ensued. There were yells, whoops, and strange antics. The
Indian spirits asked for succotash, which they ate, and after some
instruction were sent off under guidance “to the Shakers’ heavenly
world.”

Although “speaking in tongues” had a long history in Europe
as well as in America, one of the striking facts in the early develop-
mental phases of American Spiritualism is the frequency of refer-

2 Winnifred Johnston, Medicine Show, Southwest Rey., vol. 21, p. 393. 1936.
13 Abel Green and Joe Laurie, Jr., “Show Biz, from Vaude to Video,” p. 83. New York.
1953.

4 E. D. Andrews, “The People Called Shakers,” p. 169. New York. 1953.
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ences to mediums speaking Indian languages and to those who had
an Indian “control” or “guide.” ‘The names of more than a dozen
mediums, men and women and their Indian controls, appear in the
“Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science.” Such historic figures as Red
Jacket, Black Hawk, and Tecumseh are on the list, as well as spirits
with such names as White Feather, Bright Eyes, and Moonstone.
What is particularly significant is that these Indian spirits were
thought to be beneficent in their influence, especially because of their
healing powers, although they often manifested themselves at seances
in a somewhat rambunctious manner. As time went on and spirit
photography was introduced, some of these spirits appeared in native
costume in the photographs.

It would seem that no other American religious sect, with the pos-
sible exception of the Shakers, felt such a genuine affinity with the
aborigines. While there was no question of borrowing Indian beliefs
as such, nevertheless the Spiritualists saw analogies to their own views
and practices. One of these was the “shaking tent” rite of the Algon-
kians of the eastern woodlands (which has been described elsewhere) .**
Into a framework of poles covered with birchbark or canvas a conjurer
goes; the tent sways and voices are heard which, however, are usually
believed to be nonhuman. An early historian of American Spir-
itualism, writing in 1870, after referring to some of these rites, says:

Such are some of the phases in which communication exhibits itself amongst a
people whom we call “savage” and whom, in comparison to our more advanced
civilization, we may justly call so; and yet, does our knowledge of the occult
and invisible forces in nature furnish us with any clue to the mystery of these
astounding manifestations or the power by which the unlettered “savage” ean
avail himself of a knowledge which all our control over the elements fails to

compete with? In a word, the red Indian can do what we can neither explain
nor imitate.16

This interest of the Spiritualists in the Indian and his ways has con-
tinued down to the present. At Lily Dale, N.Y., the summer mecca of
Spiritualists, which commemorated its 50th anniversary in 1929, it has
been customary to celebrate Indian Day with parades and dances given
by natives from nearby reservations.

To turn now to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
the attitude of the adherents of this indigenous American sect toward
the Indians is in sharp contrast with that of the Spiritualists. Ac-
cording to “The Book of Mormon,” the red men are essentially the de-
generate posterity of a rebellious segment of a small group of Jews
who, migrating to the New World before the beginning of the Christian
era, brought with them an advanced culture. Consequently, it is said

% A. Irving Hallowell, “The Role of Conjuring in Saulteaux Society.” Philadelphia.
1942.

%*Emma Hardinge [Emma Hardinge Britten], “History of Modern American Spiritual-
ism,” Independenee, Mo., 1945, p. 144. (New York, 1870. p. 487.)
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 461

that “The Book of Mormon” supplements the Bible, since it is a history
of God’s dealings with remnants of Israel and the Saviour’s ministra-
tions among them in the Western Hemisphere.” For in America, the
great Nephrite prophecy has been fulfilled—the second coming of
Christ. After the Resurrection He appeared to a multitude of nearly
8,000 people in Mexico, before a greater assembly the next day, and
after this “he did show himself unto them oft.” The occurrence of
the legendary figure of a so-called “white god” with certain as-
sociated attributes among the Incas, Mayas, Aztecs, and Toltecs, the
Mormons interpret as supporting evidence for the historic appearance
of Christ in America.

In the Mormon view, the aborigines of the United States were the
descendants of the Lamanites, the “bad” people of the Mormon epic.
Unhke the Spiritualists, the Mormons had nothing they could look to
them for; still, a strange affinity connected them with the Indians. In
Mormon hymnals there are songs about the red man. In the days
before the rise of archeology or anthropology in the contemporary
sense, “The Book of Mormon” was representative of the speculations
that had been going on in Europe for several centuries about the
peopling of the New World. These earlier theories had to be recon-
ciled first of all with the account given in the Bible of man’s creation
and dispersal. What is peculiar in the Mormon case, however, is the
fact that a particular theory of the peopling of the New World was
incorporated as a dogma of a religious sect. This could hardly have
occurred anywhere but in early 19th-century America. The early
Mormons easily reconciled their theory with the Bible, but since the
sect has survived into a period of American culture when an enor-
mous increase in our knowledge of New World prehistory from
archeological investigations has taken place, a further reconciliation of
the inspired history found in “The Book of Mormon” with this new
knowledge is now being sought.

Outside the Mormon church, the consensus is that in its nondoc-
trinal aspects “The Book of Mormon” is derived from a romance
written but not published by Solomon Spaulding, a clergyman who
left the church and was in business in Ohio by 1812. There he dug
into some mounds and became interested in the origin of the extinct
people who had erected them. The theory that they were of Jewish
origin was not original with him, since it was maintained by many
prominent men in this country. If Spaulding’s manuscript had been
printed in its original form as fiction, he would have anticipated those
writers in America who were soon to exploit the Indian in the historical
novel. Even when “The Book of Mormon” was published in 1830, it
fell precisely in the period when the Indian was assuming great prom-

7 Paul M. Hanson, “Jesus Christ Among the Ancient Americans,” p. 144, Independence,
Mo. 1945.
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

inence in American literature. Three of Cooper’s “Leatherstocking
Tales” had met with acclaim by this date, and at least 39 novels pub-
lished between 1824 and 1834 included Indian episodes.

There was a parallel development in the drama. Barker’s “Indian
Princess” (Pocahontas), staged in 1808, had a long line of successors.
There were at least 30 so-called Indian plays staged between 1820
and 1840 and 20 or more between the latter date and the Civil War.
Some of these were dramatizations of the novels of Cooper, Bird, and
Simms. The peak in the popularity of these Indian dramas also falls
within the period (1830-70) that has been called “the golden days of
the American actor.” Perhaps the most outstanding example is
“Metamora, or The Last of the Wampanoags,” which was in the reper-
toire of Edwin Forrest for almost 40 years. It was played in Phila-
delphia every year—except two—for a quarter of a century. Forrest
had specifically advertised in 1828 for a play in which “the hero, or
principal character, shall be an aboriginal of this country.” William
Cullen Bryant was the chairman of the committee which selected
“Metamora” from the 14 plays submitted. It proved to be one of the
most popular plays of the 19th-century American theater. ‘“Meta-
mora” was played even after Forrest’s death, and a radio version was
broadcast in 1939. During its theatrical lifetime, more Americans
are said to have seen “Metamora” than “Abie’s Irish Rose” or “Tobacco
Road” in the 20th century.

In poetry, the Indian had appeared as a subject ever since the time
of Freneau, but there was nothing that could compare with the initial
impact and continuing popularity of “Hiawatha.” It became the
poem of the American Indian. Before publication in 1855, there
was an advance sale of 4,000 copies; in 5 months the sale had risen
to 50,000 copies. It has been said that what was unique about Long-
fellow’s poem was the fact that “ ‘Hiawatha’ was the first poem of its
kind in America based on Indian legend rather than on Indian
history.”?8 While true enough, it is clarifying to note that until
1839, when Schoolcraft published his “Algic Researches,” there were
no reliable collections of Indian myths or tales on which a poet could
draw. It was, therefore, a historical accident that Longfellow came
to exploit Ojibwa material; he had no other choice. Paradoxically,
Schoolcraft himself published a poem dealing with the Creek Indian
wars 12 years before “Hiawatha” appeared. He did not know the
Creeks at first hand, while he knew the Ojibwas intimately, his wife
being of that tribe. Evidently it never occurred to him to use his
Ojibwa myths as the basis of a narrative poem. Thus Schoolcraft
epitomizes the force of the traditional literary approach to the use
of Indian themes.

1 W. L. Schramm, Hiawatha and its predecessors, Philol. Quart., vol. 11, p. 341, 1932.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 463

Longfellow bore the same sort of relation to Schoolcraft as Cooper
did to Heckewelder. Generally speaking, there was no inclination on
the part of eastern novelists, dramatists, or poets who selected Indian
themes to become acquainted with living Indians of the contemporary
frontiers as a background for their productions. Indeed, a volume of
short stories, “Tales of the Northwest,” about Indians in the Upper
Mississippi region, written by one who knew them intimately, was
ignored after its publication in 1839. William Joseph Snelling, the
author, had insisted that “a man must live, emphatically, live with
Indians; share with them their lodges, their food, and their blankets,
for years, before he can comprehend their ideas, or enter their feel-
ings.” American writers were not yet ready for this early call to
realism. But for American readers, a novel entitled “Altowan; or
Incidents of Life and Adventure in the Rocky Mountains,” by Sir
William Drummond Stewart, an eccentric Scot, who during the 1830’s
had spent 6 years in the West, was published in New York in 1846.
Although the novel was undistinguished in writing and had some
romantic trappings, in this case the author had seen a great deal of
Indian life. What makes the book unique is that one of the leading
characters, as pointed out by De Voto, is an Indian transvestite—a
berdache—and this individual is depicted in highly realistic terms.
The author pictures his behavior and dress in detail, and no doubt
is left about what he was. “I know of no English or American novel
of that time or for many years later that is half so frank about homo-
sexuality,” writes De Voto.”

In painting and popular music there was a parallel romantic tradi-
tion. Gleanings from historical documents or tradition were tinc-
tured by an extremely free use of imagination. It is obvious, for
instance, that the artist who provided the frontispiece for Mrs. Mor-
ton’s “Ouabi, or The Virtue of Nature” (1790) knew as little about
Indians at first hand as did the author of this poem in the noble
savage tradition. And Benjamin West’s painting of one of Penn’s
treaties with the Indians, dating from about 1771, offers a direct
parallel to the literary artist who drew on historical documents for
his source material.

Part of Mrs. Morton’s poem was set to music by Hans Gram the
year after its publication. This composition, the first orchestral score
published in the United States, was entitled “The Death Song of an
Indian Chief,” although there is no evidence that the composer knew
anything about aboriginal music. In 1799, a musical arrangement of
“Alk’amoonok, the Death Song of the Cherokee Indians,” reputedly
based on a genuine Indian melody, was published and soon became
very popular. It had been sung in “Tammany” (1794), the first
American opera. An eccentric musician, Anton Philip Heinrich,

12 Bernard De Voto, ‘‘Across the Wide Missouri,” p. 426. Boston. 1947.
492520—59——_31
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

who died in 1861, was the composer of the “Pocahontas Waltz” for
piano and is said to have been the first to use Indian themes in larger
orchestral works. The heroine of the big song hit of 1844, “The Blue
Juniata,” was an Indian girl, “Bright Alforata.”

Actually, it is at this vernacular level that the backwash of the
frontier is most clearly discernible in American music of the 19th
century. ‘This was due to the role the Indian played in the subject
matter of folk songs. In one group of songs, the Indian appears
“merely as an incidental personality” and the attitudes toward him
are vague. Inasecond group, however, negative attitudes are sharply
defined since many songs in this class are long narrative ballads which
depict actual frontier conflicts. Folksongs about historic events,
“including songs about dramatic episodes in the relationships of
Indians and White, have been sung regularly since the earliest days
of colonization and have faithfully reflected changing relationships
between the two culture groups at least down to the present century
when modern techniques for the commercialization of popular songs
may have beclouded the issue.” A third category of songs reflects
a positive attitude toward the Indian varying “from vague references
to good Indians or Indians with heroic qualities, to songs and ballads
exclusively about romanticized Indians, who are admired for their
stamina and other heroic qualities.” ?° An anonymous, undated ex-
ample of America’s folk painting, depicting the rescue of John Smith,
belongs to this earlier period.2*. The same motif was subsequently as
popular in prints as it was in fiction, drama, poetry, and music.

However, in the midst of all this romanticizing of the Indian, a
trend toward greater realism developed, particularly in painting.
Here and there in colonial times there had been some realistic paintings
of the Indians; for example, the masterly portraits of Lenape chiefs
painted in 1735 by Gustavus Hesselius (1682-1755). But about 1821,
many of the western chiefs who came to Washington on business with
the Government sat for their portraits. <A collection of these became
the nucleus of the famous “Indian Gallery.” The magnificent re-
production of 120 of these portraits in a folio edition of 3 volumes
(McKenny and Hall, “History of the Indian Tribes of North America,
1836-44”) gave the eastern public an opportunity to see what con-
temporary Indians looked like. On the other hand, artists themselves
began to go west (Seymour, Rindisbacher, Lewis, Catlin, Miller, Kast-
man, Stanley, Kane, Bodmer, Kurz), so that greatly enriched images
of the natives, the kind of life they led, and the grandeur of the
country they inhabited soon became more widely known to those
living far removed from the contemporary frontier. It was the author
0 Austin E. Fife and Francesca Redden, The pseudo-Indian folksongs of the Anglo-
American and French-Canadian, Journ. Amer. Folklore, vol. 57, pp. 241, 394, 1954.

21 “American Folk Art. The Art of the Common Man in America, 1750-1900.” Mus. Mod.
Art Publ. No. 19, 1932.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 465

of “Altowan” who induced Alfred Jacob Miller—now one of the most
famous of these artists, whose true accomplishments have only become
known to the public in recent years—to accompany him west in 1887.
Catlin is particularly important, however, not only because he was
a pioneer, but because he was a showman. He toured eastern cities
in the late 1830’s exhibiting his “Indian Gallery,” which has been
called the first Wild West show. It included Indian “curios,” featur-
ing pipes, and in exhibition halls he erected a real Crow tepee. Catlin
appeared in person and, taking selected pictures as a point of departure,
lectured to his audiences about Indian life. He would dress lay figures
in Indian clothing and frequently had some Indians on hand to pan-
tomime native activities. Although Catlin was not an anthropologist,
his Indian Gallery did mediate to Americans a more realistic type of
knowledge about the Plains tribes than had been available. After
touring American cities, he took his show to England and the Con-
tinent. In 1954, an exhibition of Catlin’s work, sponsored by the
United States Information Agency, was again on tour in Europe,
while in this country Bodmer’s watercolors were being exhibited.

Even though Catlin “had been there,” he had detractors, like Audu-
bon, who challenged the accuracy of his paintings. The same thing
had happened to Cooper and Longfellow. The romantic tradition
in America was strong, and the application of a purely realistic stand-
ard of judgment was, in effect, an attack upon the tradition. Cooper
may have idealized the Indian in some respects and erred in many
details, but he idealized the pioneer and backwoodsman too. The In-
dian was enveloped in the romantic tradition and what is interesting
is how long he has remained a part of it.

When the dime novel sprang into popularity in the 1860’s, the
Indians of the Cooper tradition became an integral part of this litera-
ture. In one way or another, Indians play a role in at least 45 percent
of the 321 stories in the original dime-novel series. “Malesia, the In-
dian Wife of the White Hunter” (1860), the first one published by
Beadle and Adams, actually was a reprinting of a story that had been
serialized in 1839. “The death of the dime novel, if it ever really
occurred, was accompanied by the birth of the nickelodeon, the motion
picture, and the radio, which simply transferred the old stories of cow-
boys, desperadoes, and Indians to more dynamic forms.” ”? In fact,
as soon as the silent cinema began to flicker, the Indian of the old
romantic tradition wasin. There was a screen version of “Hiawatha”
as early as 1909, the “Deerslayer” was shown in 1911, the “Last of
the Mohicans” in 1920. And, until very recently, what Stanley Vestal
called the “Hollywooden Indian” has persisted in that typically Ameri-
can movie genre—the western.

2 James D. Hart, “The Popular Book. A History of America’s Literary Taste,” p. 156,
New York. 1950.
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

On the other hand, there was an increasing awareness that authentic
knowledge of the aboriginal cultures was relevant and desirable in
the arts. Perhaps this attitude developed along with the emergence
of a more realistic tradition in American writing. However this may
be, I think that the publication of Edna Dean Proctor’s “Song of the
Ancient People” in 1893 represents a transitional case. While it is in
the high romantic tradition, there is an appended commentary to
this poem by F. H. Cushing (1857-1900), a pioneer anthropologist
who went to the Southwest in 1879 and lived among the Zuni for 5
years. He says he can bear witness to the poet’s “strict fidelity of
statement, and attempt to show, as one of the Ancient People them-
selves would be glad to show, how well she has divined their spirit.”
The volume was illustrated with realistic aquatints made by Julian
Scott in the Hopi country. No other Indian poem had ever been
offered to the public with such an aura of authenticity about it—it was
bound in buckskin with a design taken from Southwestern pottery on
the cover.

The inauguration of genuine Indian themes in American concert
music is ordinarily attributed to Edward MacDowell, whose “Indian
Suite” was first performed in 1896. But where did he find such
themes? He was not a frontier boy. He entered the Paris Conserva-
tory at the age of 14 and did not take up residence here until he was
27. The fact is that MacDowell exemplifies a repetition of the same
kind of relationship to the source of his thematic material as was noted
in the case of Cooper and Longfellow. He got them from Theodore
Baker, the first trained musician to go into the field and study Indian
music at first hand. Baker, a German, visited the Seneca Reservation
and the Carlisle Indian School in the summer of 1880, offering the
results of his analysis to Leipzig University as a doctoral dissertation.
But he was not a composer, nor was Alice C. Fletcher, whose mono-
graph on Omaha songs (1893) initiated the study of Indian music in
American anthropology. However, two of the songs she collected,
“Shupida” and the “Omaha Tribal Prayer,” undoubtedly have been
among the most widely circulated examples of authentic Indian music
in American culture. Together with three other Indian songs, they
appear in “Indian Lore,” a pamphlet in the Merit Badge Series of the
Boy Scouts of America. In the past 6 years, approximately 47,000
copies of this booklet have been printed. Scouts who aspire to the
merit badge in Indian lore must be able to “sing three Indian songs
including the Omaha Tribal Prayer and tell something of their
meaning.” Since 1911, there have been more than 18,700 American
boys who have won this distinction.

Following the lead of MacDowell, other composers began to make
increasing use of Indian themes, though only a few made direct con-
tact with the reservation Indians. Among them were Burton, Cad-
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 467

man, Farwell, Jacobi, Lieurance, Arthur Nevin, Skilton, and Troyer,
who found native music interesting to them, because as Skilton has
said, “many devices of the ultra modern comnosers of the present day
have long been employed by Indians—unusual intervals, arbitrary
scales, changing tune, conflicting rhythm, polychoral effects, hypnotic
monotony.” #2 Indian songs were harmonized and arranged for per-
formance by white musicians; Indian themes were handled freely in
the composition of original works, much in the same way that Long-
fellow handled Ojibwa myths.

In the field of operatic composition, despite the popularity of other
compositions of Herbert and Cadman, neither the former’s “Natoma”
(1911) nor the latter’s “Shanewis” (1918) became established in oper-
atic repertoire. Some compositions based on Indian themes have re-
ceived high acclaim in the repertoire of orchestral music, others as
popular songs. Skilton’s “Indian Dances,” along with MacDowell’s
“Indian Suite,” were among the 27 compositions of 12 American com-
posers which had the greatest number of performances in the United
States during the 7 years following World War I. Jacobi’s “String
Quartet on Indian Themes” was selected to represent American music
at the International Festival of Contemporary Music at Zurich in
1926. Elliott Carter’s ballet “Pocahontas,” presented in New York in
1939 (and later developed into a suite for orchestra) received the
Juilliard Publication Award the following year. Cadman, who went
to the Omaha Reservation in 1909 with Francis LaF lesche, an Indian
anthropologist, wrote one of his most famous songs that year, “From
the Land of the Sky Blue Water.” It vied with “The Rosary” in
popularity. He likewise wrote two operas on Indian themes. “By
the Waters of Minnetonka” (1921), composed by Thurlow Lieurance,
who had visited the western reservations as early as 1905, has had a
phenomenal success. At midcentury it appears in the Victor Album
“Twelve Beloved American Songs” along with “The Rosary” and “A
Perfect Day.” Nor should commercialized popular songs of a lower
order—some Indian in name only—be forgotten. Among those com-
posed early in this century were “Navajo” (1903), “Tammany” (1905),
“Red Wing” (1907), and “Hiawatha’s Melody of Love” (1920), to say
nothing of “The Indian Love Call” (1924), and “Ramona,” a hit of
1927.

In the early years of this century, some American poets, like the
musicians, sought out the Indians, and those of the Southwest became a
focal point of interest. These were the same people that Edna Procter
had written about. They had been the subject, too, of a novel, “The
Delight Makers” (1890), by A. F. Bandelier, said by Alfred L. Kroe-

2 Charles S. Skilton, American Indian music, Int. Cycl. Music and Musicians, p. 48. New
York. 1939.
468 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ber to be “a more comprehensive and coherent view of native Pueblo
life than any scientific volume on the southwest.”

A few American painters (Sharp, Phillips, Blumenschein) had also
discovered the Southwest before the opening of the 20th century.
Blumenschein’s graphic commentary on the acculturation process,
which shows two Indians mounted on merry-go-round horses, had
appeared in Harper’s Weekly in 1899.

Among the poets who became interested, Mary Austin soon took
the lead. She became the key figure in the use of Indian material for
literary purposes, and her extremely positive attitude toward the
cultures of the Indians influenced many others to seek inspiration
in their art. She characterized her “Amerindian Songs” as being
“Reexpressed from the Originals.” Some of these first appeared in
“Poetry” (1917), along with comparable interpretations by Frank
S. Gordon, Alice Corbin Henderson, and Constance Lindsay Skinner.
Mary Austin wrote plays and stories, too. She seems to have moved
from a romantic primitivism to a more and more realistic handling of
Indian themes, as exemplified by her play “The Arrow Maker,” pro-
duced on Broadway in 1911, and her “One-Smoke Stories” (1934), one
of her last books. Nor should the fact be overlooked that four anthol-
ogies containing translations of American Indian songs and poetry
have appeared in this century (George W. Cronyn, “The Path of the
Rainbow,” 1918 and 1934; Nellie Barnes, “American Indian Love
Lyrics and Other Verse,” 1925; Margot Astrov, “The Winged Ser-
pent,” 1946; and A. Grove Day, “The Sky Clears,” 1951).

In the 20th century, the Indian has also reappeared in American
plays, particularly in the work of the regional dramatists. While the
setting is frequently the historic past, the problems the native faces
in the acculturation process are sometimes dramatized. Both “Strong-
heart” (1905) and “Cherokee Night” (1936) are examples of this
theme. In prose fiction, we also find that anthropologists, inspired by
Bandelier and the stories collected in Elsie Clews Parsons’ “American
Indian Life” (1922), entered the field. “Laughing Boy,” a Literary
Guild book of 1929, by Oliver LaFarge, and “Hawk Over Whirlpools”
by Ruth Underhill (1940) are outstanding illustrations. In “Amer-
ica in Fiction,” the authors call attention to the fact that “now that he
is on reservations, not a military foe, and generally not an economic
competitor, the Indian is a subject of great interest, so much so that
more fiction has been written about him in recent years than about
any other ethnic group except the Negro. In many works of fiction,
he has been given central prominence, his cultural complex has been
detailed, and much attention has been paid to his problems of ad-
justing himself to the dominating civilization that surrounds him.” *

2% Otis W. Coan and Richard G. Lillard, America in Fiction. “An Annotated List of
Novels that Interpret Aspects of Life in the United States,’ 3d ed., pp. 161-162. Stanford.
1949.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 469

Their bibliography lists 37 novels or collections of stories published
between 1902 and 1947. “Where once we had melodrama about the
Indian with his bloody tomahawk,” they say, “now we have clear-cut
realism.” Whatever the art form may be, what is striking is the more
intimate acquaintance with contemporary Indians that informs the
work of the painter, musician, poet, dramatist, or novelist who has
drawn upon aboriginal cultural forms or used the problems of the
Indian for his thematic material.

Finally, it seems to me that among these more recent influences, the
impact of the Indian on modern anthropology should not be omitted.
The social sciences as they have developed in the United States during
the past half-century have attained an unusual prominence in Amer-
ican culture. Among these, anthropology in its modern form was just
getting under way about the time the frontier closed. It was in the
1890’s that Franz Boas began to teach at Columbia University and to
train students in fieldwork. Boas was a specialist in studies of the
American Indian and a majority of his early students followed in his
footsteps. Indeed, practically all the chief authorities on North
American Indian ethnology, archeology, and linguistics have been
American. <A historical accident? Of course. But that is the point.
It is only recently among the younger generation that more attention
is being devoted to peoples in the South Seas, Africa, and Asia. But
it was the study of the Indians, and the problems that emerged from
the investigation of the Indian as a subject, that gave American an-
thropology a distinctive coloring as compared with British, French,
and German anthropology. Recently an American psychologist has
remarked that “if the word ‘anthropology’ were presented to a sample
of psychologists in a word-association test I would venture ‘culture’
would probably be the most popular response, with ‘Indians’ a runner-
up.” The presumption, no doubt, is that these hypothetical responses
would be those of American psychologists.

The more detailed and reliable accounts of native Indian cultures
that have emerged from the fieldwork of American anthropologists
have made possible a more objective appraisal of the values inherent
in the aboriginal modes of life. To those who look at the record, the
Indian no longer appears as either a noble or ignoble savage. He has
moved into a clearer focus as a human being. Like our own, his tra-
ditional cultural background and historical situation have determined
the nature of his experience and made him what he is.

Viewing the panorama of our colonial and national history as a
whole, I have referred to many diverse aspects of our culture—speech,
economic life, food habits, clothing, transportation, medicine, religion,

2M. Brewster Smith, Anthropology and psychology, in John Gillin (ed.), ‘‘For a Science
of Social Man. Convergences in Anthropology, Psychology and Sociology,” p. 39. New
York. 1954.
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the arts, and even a social science—which have been influenced by our
relations with the Indians at different times and in differing ways.
Some of these influences have been mediated directly, others indirectly.
Contacts with the Indian on the frontier have by no means been the
source of all of them.

In summing up, we may ask: how deeply have such influences pene-
trated our culture? To what extent are our relations with the Indians
one key to our differentiation as Americans, not only culturally but
psychologically? Constance Rourke once wrote, “The Backswoods-
man conquered the Indian, but the Indian also conquered him. He
ravaged the land and was ravaged in turn.” Phillips D. Carleton,
concluding his comments on the captivity literature, writes: “It em-
phasizes the fact that it was the line of fluid frontiers receding into the
West that changed the colonists into a new people; they conquered the
Indian but he was the hammer that beat out a new race on the anvil
of the continent.” 7° Carl Jung, who has probably analyzed more per-
sons of various nationalities than anyone else, thought he could discern
an Indian component in the character structure of his American
patients, and D. H. Lawrence asked whether a dead Indian is nought.
“Not that the Red Indian will ever possess the broadlands of America,”
he said and then added, “But his ghost will.” |

In America we faced the Indian on receding frontiers for a long
period; but outside the frontier there was the shadow of the Indian.
This shadow is still upon us. We still mouth words and idioms that
reflect intimate contacts with the aborigines of our land. We still
make use of plants originally cultivated by them. We wear derivative
forms of the footgear they wore. We have collected objects made by
them in our homes and in our museums. Our artists have found in-
spiration in their artistic modes of expression. We constantly see
the Indian sweep past our eyes on the movie screen. He persists in
our historical novels and westerns. In 1954, “The Leatherstocking
Saga” reappeared, compressed into one handsome volume. We Ameri-
cans have seen the Indian come and go on the commonest national coins
we have fingered. The first Bible to be printed in colonial America was
in the Indian language, John Eliot’s translation of the Old and New
Testament into an Algonkian tongue. Over the generations thousands
of American men have belonged to the more-than-a-century-old Im-
proved Order of Red Men. American anthropologists have labored
most industriously to provide more and more authentic information
about aboriginal modes of life and the influence of American culture
on the Indian. The Indian has never been rejected from the American
consciousness. Perhaps his shadow upon us is even disappearing—he
has become a part of us: in the “Dictionary of American Biography”

2 Phillips D. Carleton, The Indian captivity, Amer. Lit., No. 15, p. 180, 1943.
BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER—HALLOWELL 471

will be found side by side with other famous Americans, Pontiac and
Tecumseh, Blackhawk and Osceola. In 1931 a brief popular biog-
raphy of Osceola—only a few pages in length—was printed at Palm
Beach; it was entitled “Osceola the Seminole. Florida’s Most Distin-
guished Historical Character!” And it is said that more statues have
been erected of Sacajawea than of any other American woman.

Now that the frontier has passed, our children discover the Indian
in the comic books, as well as in the library. They are familiar with
Cooper’s tales in “Classics Illustrated.” Indeed, there appears to have
been a marked increase in number, variety, and quality of children’s
books about Indians published in the last two or more decades. There
are biographies of Indians famous in our history as well as historical
romances. The stories of famous white captives have been retold; there
are excellent books on Indian crafts and simplified but accurate ac-
counts of tribal life, besides well-written stories which center around
Indian children as major characters. Nevertheless, the average Amer-
ican is by no means aware of all the ramifications of Indian influence
upon our culture. Perhaps the Red Indian ghost D. H. Lawrence saw
here and what Jung discerned in the character of his patients provide
clues to an aspect of the American ethos that invites deeper scrutiny in
the future.

SELECTED READINGS

ARBAUGH, G. B.
1932. Revelation in Mormonism, its character and changing forms. Chicago.
CHAMBERLAIN, ALEXANDER F.
1905. The contribution of the American Indian to civilization. Proc. Amer.
Antiq. Soc., n.s., vol. 16, pp. 91-126.
CLARK, Barrett H. (editor).
1943. Favorite American plays of the nineteenth century. Princeton, N.J.
Der Voto, BERNARD.
1947. Across the wide Missouri. Illustrated with paintings by Alfred Jacob
Miller, Charles Bodmer, and George Catlin. Boston.
FarrRcHoLp, Hoxie N.
1928. The Noble Savage, a study in romantic naturalism. New York.
HALLOWELL, A. IRVING.
1955. Culture and experience. Philadelphia.
1957. The impact of the American Indian on American culture. Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 59, No. 2, pp. 201-217.
Howanp, JOHN T.
1946. Our American music; three hundred years of it. 3d ed., rev. New
York.
JOHANNSEN, ALBERT.
1950. The House of Beadle and Adams and its dime and nickel novels. The
story of a vanished literature. Norman, Okla.
JUNG, CARL G.
1928. Contributions to analytical psychology. New York.
KEISER, ALBERT.
1933. The Indian in American literature. New York.
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

LAWRENCE, D. H.
1923. Studies in classic American literature. New York.
LAWTON, GEORGE.
1932. The drama of life after death; a study of the spiritualist religion.
New York.
MENCKEN, HENRY L.
1936. The American language. 4threv.ed. New York.
OrRIANS, G. H.

1935. The cult of the vanishing American: A century view, 1834-1934. Bull.

Univ. Toledo (Ohio), November.
PEARCE, Roy H.

1953. The savages of America. A study of the Indian and the idea of

civilization. Baltimore.
PECKHAM, Howarp H.
1954. Captured by Indians; true tales of pioneer survivors. New Bruns-
wick, N.J.
Pickarp, Mapce E., and Burry, R. CARLYLE.
1946. The Midwest pioneer, his ills, cures and doctors. New York.
QuiInN, ARTHUR H.
1943. A history of the American drama from the beginning to the Civil War.
2ded. New York.
RouRKE, CONSTANCE.
1931. American humor; a study of the national character. New York.
1942. The roots of American culture and other essays. New York.
SHOOK, C. A.

1910. Cumorah revisited; or “The Book of Mormon” and the claims of the
Mormons reexamined from the viewpoint of American archaeology
and ethnology. Cincinnati.

SNELLING, W. JOSEPH.
1936. William Joseph Snelling’s Tales of the Northwest, with an introduc-
tion by John T. Flanagan. Minneapolis.
SPAETH, SIGMUND.
1948. A history of popular music in America. New York.
SPER, FELrx.
1948. From native roots: A panorama of our regional drama. Caldwell,
Idaho.
STEWART, GEORGE R.
1945. Names ontheland. New York.
1954. American ways of life. Garden City, N.Y.
VESTAL, STANLEY.
1936. The Hollywooden Indian. Southwest Rev., No. 21.
WrotH, LAWRENCE C.
1928. The Indian treaty asliterature. Yale Rev., vol. 17, pp. 749-766.
The Restored Shanidar I Skull’

By T. D. STEWART

Curator of Physical Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution

[With 13 plates]

THE piscovery of the first adult skeleton in the Mousterian layer
of Shanidar cave, northern Iraq, was reported in the press in the
spring of 1957.2. Since then Dr. Ralph Solecki, leader of the expedi-
tion excavating the cave, has published more details of the find in
Sumer (1957b) and in the Scientific American (1957a). Now it is
possible to follow up these reports in a remarkably short time with
illustrations and a brief description of the restored skull. A fuller
report on the skull and on certain postcranial parts is in course of
preparation.

The work of reconstruction, which the writer carried out in the
Iraq Museum during the months of October through December 1957,
was made possible by the farsighted cooperation and generosity of
the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia, the Directorate
General of Antiquities in Baghdad, and the Smithsonian Institution
in Washington.

This account has had to be prepared at the termination of the
laboratory work and before comparative studies could be undertaken.
For this reason only very tentative statements regarding the biologi-
cal significance of the specimen will be made. Mainly I will tell what
has been accomplished in the way of skull reconstruction and point
out certain features thereof which affect interpretations. I am in-
debted to Antran Evan, photographer of the Iraq Museum, for the
excellent photographs here reproduced. In making the drawings of
the skull I did not strive for extreme accuracy. My intention was
merely to supply an interpretation of the photographs. In viewing

1 Reprinted, with the addition of footnotes and references, by permission from Sumer,
vol. 14, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 90—95, 1958.

4To avoid confusion in the future it should be noted that although an infant was found
in 1953, only the three adults found in 1957 as yet bear distinguishing numbers. I have
now decided that Shanidar I is a male around 40 years of age (see Stewart, 1959).

473
474. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

them thus the reader should remember that the camera and stereo-
graph record the object from slightly different viewpoints.

To students of human paleontology the traditional aspects of the
skull here shown will speak for themselves. Such significant details
as the heavy brow ridges, the large flat face, the receding chin, the
low forehead, the small mastoids (but large digastric fossae), etc.,
recall the forms of ancient man which are usually designated “Nean-
derthal.” This is a term that no longer has an exact morphological
meaning. In an effort at more exactitude anthropologists are now
using qualifying words, such as “progressive” and “conservative” or
“classical,” meaning closer to modern man and farther from modern
man, respectively. Even this device is not wholly satisfactory. For
this reason I am going to risk being specific and state that at the
moment I am inclined to rank the Shanidar skull with the somewhat
earlier Mousterian population of Mount Carmel in Palestine, as de-
scribed by McCown and Keith in 1939. Within this highly variable
population I would rank Shanidar closer to Tabin than to Skhil.?
Be this as it may, the really significant thing is that an individual
with such primitive features persisted in the mountains of Iraq to
the end of the Mousterian cultural period; that is, to a time which
Solecki estimates to be only about 45,000 years ago.*

In a symposium on population genetics held in Cold Spring Harbor,
N.Y., in 1950 I (1951) expressed skepticism that the variety of types
encountered at Mount Carmel was due to hybridization between mod-
ern and Neanderthaloid types, an idea then widely held. The primi-
tiveness of Shanidar I and the late occurrence of this type strengthen
my skepticism. I still feel that all these specimens could be variants
of a local and durable population. In this connection it is interesting
to recall Senyiirek’s conclusion, recently (1957) published in Anatolia,
that the infant recovered earlier in the Mousterian layer at Shanidar
is a distinct subspecies deserving the name Homo sapiens shanidarensis.

Such generalizations are interesting and are certain to be debated
in anthropological circles for some time, but ultimately their validity
depends upon the quality of theevidence. Itis of primary importance,
therefore, to raise immediately the question: How accurately has the
Shanidar skull been reconstructed? In general, my answer must be:
Not perfectly, but probably close enough for all practical purposes.
Actually, the skull is far less complete than a first glance at the pic-
tures reveals; also, it shows signs of injuries in life and has undergone

*In making this statement I was influenced by the appearance of the posterior part
of the skull. The face (including the supraorbital ridges) is every bit as primitive as in
the ‘classical’? Neanderthals. Yet, when attention is directed to the back of the skull,
one is inclined to qualify the designation “classical.”

4 This figure takes into account Coon’s report (1957, pp. 306-307) of a Cy, date of 43,000
years for the upper part of the Mousterian layer in the Jerf Ajila cave in Syria. Analyses
of the Shanidar carbon samples are in process.
THE RESTORED SHANIDAR I SKULL—STEWART 475

some postmortem warping. The extent to which the latter factor has
influenced the shape is best seen as an enlargement of the left side in
the views of the top and base. This asymmetry results from certain
parts on the left side failing to meet and leaving gaps. Except in the
left zygomatic arch, the gaps are no longer apparent, because they have
been filled in to give more rigidity to the specimen.

Not only are there gaps on the left side but there are large areas on
this side where the bone has been lost entirely or, if present, cannot
be accurately placed. One such area in the posterior left parietal has
been left open intentionally so that the inside of the skull can be in-
spected. Anyone looking through this hole in the actual specimen
sees that even more of the inside surface has had to be restored. The
explanation is that ancient cranial bone tends to split through the
diplé6e, or porous middle layer, and thereupon the inner table crum-
bles. Thus I found some sections of the vault to consist only of outer
table, 1 to 2mm. thick. Such sections had to be reinforced on the endo-
cranial side.

In reinforcing weakened bone and in filling in areas where the bone
was missing I used a commercial “crack filler” (trade name: Savo-
gran). This substance comes in the form of a powder and is mixed
with water to the desired consistency. It has the advantage of being
readily moulded into the prescribed shape, of setting fairly rapidly, of
not shrinking, of becoming quite hard, and of turning a light brown
color to give a nice contrast with the stained bone. Also, it is not
affected by the ordinary laboratory chemicals and therefore can be
varnished for protection against moisture. Where deemed desirable,
reinforcing wires have been embedded in the filler. TI mention all this
just in case it should be necessary in the future to remove or restore
the filled-in areas of this specimen.

In contrast to the very incomplete left side, the right side is essen-
tially complete, except superiorly. Therefore, it was natural at the
outset of reconstruction to assemble the right side from the many pieces
into which it had been broken. By making the joints between these
pieces fit tight, the original form of the skull, or what was assumed to
be the original form, emerged. Necessarily, the restored areas, espe-
cially of the left side, largely depend on the right side. If there are
inaccuracies in the joining of the component parts of the right side, or
if warping has affected the right side, the gaps on the left side are
probably the result. Owing to the fragility of the bone, the refitting
of joints had to be kept to a minimum.

The top of the skull presented a special problem. The whole of this
area from the middle of the frontal bone to the lambdoid suture (be-
tween the occipital and parietal bones) depends for its shape and
elevation on one large fragment hinged at a narrow joint on the right
side anteriorly. The word “hinge” graphically describes this type of
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

joint. Since there is contact only through the outer table of bone, all
of the piece which includes most of the sagittal suture, and hence the
vertex of the vault, could be raised or lowered without revealing the
correct position. The only solution to this problem was to position
this piece of bone arbitrarily so as to get a symmetrical appearance
relative to the median plane. I believe that I may have placed this
piece a little higher than it was originally. If this is true, it is due to
the warping of the whole neurocranium already referred to. In justi-
fication of the position adopted I can only say that all other arrange-
ments yielded outlines more asymmetrical than the present one.
Nevertheless, cranial height cannot be seriously affected.

I realize, of course, that intact skulls are never wholly symmetri-
cal. This is one reason for letting the joined fragments determine
the over-all form. However, in assembling a fragmentary skull, as
in the present instance, one has to assume original symmetry. When,
in spite of this assumption, gaps develop, it is reasonable to attribute
them to pustmortem warping. Considering the fact that a rock
rested on this skull and the skull was recovered from a depth of 4.34
meters in the cave deposits, some warping should be expected. Ad-
vanced suture closure may have helped the skull sustain the pressures
until the warping was fixed in the bone.

Besides being warped and thus rendered asymmetrical postmortem,
the Shanidar skull shows signs of having been asymmetrical antemor-
tem. The signs are in the form of scars and indicate that this in-
dividual suffered injuries about the face and forehead. The frontal
scars are simply roughenings and depressions of the surface of the
bone, mainly on the right side; they did not alter appreciably the
outlines of the vault. On the other hand, the old healed injury to
the left side of the face altered the shape of the orbit, the supraor-
bital ridge and the malar bone. The left orbit is compressed from
the side and its outer border is sharper than the corresponding one
on the right. The left supraorbital ridge, unlike the right, is divided
into two parts by an unnatural depression (scar). The left malar
bone, in addition to involvement of the part forming the lateral wall
of the orbit, is flattened so that the zygomatic arch presents a decided
contrast in shape to its counterpart of the right. The location of
the scars on the forepart of the head suggests injuries received in
combat.

Interesting as these scars are, inasmuch as they seem to reflect oc-
cupational hazards, they were a nuisance in reconstructing the incom-
plete left side of the face. It is easy, of course, in normal specimens
to make one side of the face the mirror image of the other. But in
abnormal specimens the eye alone is the judge of correctness of resto-
ration. In the present instance three unconnected facial fragments
(one abnormal) had to be oriented largely by eye. At the same time
THE RESTORED SHANIDAR I SKULL—STEWART 477

the abnormal malar portion had to be related to the left temporal
bone, which in turn had very meager connections with the base and
occipital bone. As each fragment was placed in position, it was
anchored by wires cemented to it. When the relationships appeared
to be correct, the missing parts were filled in with modeling clay. If
at this stage the eye detected malpositioning, changes were made.
Ultimately the clay was replaced with “crack filler” and all support-
ing wires hidden from view.

This brief account of the procedures used in reconstructing this
ancient skull has not followed the true sequence of events. Actually,
the lower jaw was assembled first, then the right side of the neuro-
cranium (plus the anterior part of the frontal bone) and the right
side of the face separately. Thereupon the lower jaw was mounted
in its natural position on a piece of plate glass so that it could be
turned about easily. The right side of the face was then placed so
that the teeth of the right side were in natural occlusion. The teeth
were cemented together (temporarily) in this position. Next the
right side of the neurocranium (with attached frontal bone) was
brought into position. In this process attention was given to the
frontomalar suture, the zygomaticotemporal suture and the temporo-
mandibular joint. Unfortunately, there was no contact in the naso-
frontal region, so I had to judge the relationships of the supraorbital
ridges to the jaws, etc., by eye. After various trials, the frontomalar
suture appeared to be the connection of prime importance. From here
on the midplane of the face and neurocranium was clearly established
and could be maintained in the vertical position. Subsequently, the
left side of the face, the left side of the neurocranium, the base, ver-
tex, and occiput were adjusted and added in that order.

Since by far the most difficult part of the whole operation centered
about the placement of the left temporal bone, it is desirable to in-
clude a few words about how this was done. The first step was to
bring the temporal bone and the left side of the base into position.
This was a delicate procedure, because this part of the base was dis-
placed downward. Also, the temporal had lost most of the petrous
portion, but was nearly complete externally. Thus the mandibular
condyle had to be relied on to orient the glenoid fossa and make it
correspond in position with the one on the right. However, in
addition at least three other parts had to be considered: (1) A piece
of occipital squama (including the left side of the foramen magnum)
with a tenuous connection to the temporal; (2) the left side of the
basiccipital with attached left occipital condyle; and (8) a small
section of base connecting the temporal and basioccipital anteriorly.
In fitting all these together the objective was to maintain the position
of the left temporomandibular joint and to obtain a symmetrical
foramen magnum. The maneuvering of these fragments would have
478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

been greatly simplified if there had been a top to the vault so that
the whole skull could have been inverted. Under the circumstances
it seemed best to hold to the original positioning of the total assem-
blage, and only when the pieces were firmly fixed by wires to turn the
skull over (supported by the hands) for inspection. Needless to say,
the stated objective was not reached on the first trial. Indeed, it took a
couple of days to get everything here satisfactorily arranged; that is,
satisfactory only if the gaps already mentioned are disregarded.

One more point should be mentioned in connection with the last
phase of reconstruction, namely, the placement of the occiput. Early
in the work I discovered that a large central piece of occipital bone
had what seemed to be definite, if slight, connections on both sides,
but no other connections. ‘Then, in the course of trying out various
arrangements the connection on the right was damaged. Also, a
gap developed in this region and it was no longer possible to connect
the central occipital fragment on both sides. I decided finally to use
the connection with the right side, because this side is more com-
plete, but I remain unhappy that I could not confirm the connection.
Possibly this part of the occiput should be shifted more to the left.

From this description of the problems encountered during the course
of reconstructing the skull the reader will understand why the original
form has not been entirely recovered. Yet I am fairly certain that the
skull, as restored, looks very much like it did before it was damaged.
The parts could not be assembled very differently without yielding a
bizarre appearance. I am inclined to believe that I achieved a com-
promise between the original form and the distorted form caused by
earth pressure.

Necessarily the deficiencies of the skull have been emphasized in the
foregoing account. To offset this I will now review some of the assets.
In spite of what has been said, the skull can be considered essentially
complete, since the parts recovered are so distributed that they permit
the missing parts to be interpolated from them. Moreover, all im-
portant landmarks, with the possible exception of lambda, are present.
The location of lambda is rendered uncertain because of suture closure,
the possible presence of a small “Inca” bone, and the loss of critical
bone. Very important is the evidently correct placement of the fora-
men magnum and its useful landmark basion at the anterior margin.
Indeed, the whole base, delicate though the parts are, is almost com-
plete. The same can be said with considerable confidence of the face;
the details of the face could not have been very different from those of
the face as restored. It is noteworthy that even the zygomatic arches
are complete. And finally, all the teeth were present in life and are
now in place, except only the lower central incisors, the absence of
which was noted at excavation. Such assets (and more could be
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 1

1. Superior view of mandible. Note flattening of left glenoid process and wear of lower
teeth.

% a 4 eS c
oo

2. Inferior view of mandible. Note tubercle on lateral side of right glenoid process (the
one on the left does not show as clearly), and the sculpturing in the region of the symphysis.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 2

Front view. Note, among other things, the deformity of the left malar bone, the scar in
the middle of the left supraorbitat ridge, and the abscess cavities at the apices of some
of the front teeth. This and subsequent views of the skull have been taken in the Frank-
fort position.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 3

Front view. ‘his and subsequent stereographic drawings were made with the skull in the
Frankfort position. Stippling indicates areas of missing bone replaced with filler (except
as noted in plate 11); heavy parallel lines, areas of unreplaced missing bone or natural
openings into the interior of the skull; fine parallel lines, broken edges of bone.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 4

View of right side. The most complete portion of the skull is here shown. Note the
flatness of the face in the infraorbital region, the lack of chin, the ear exostoses, and the

relatively small mastoid process.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 5

View of right side. (The position of the nasal floor has been added to this drawing since
the original publication.)
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 6

View of the left side. The many missing parts on this side are apparent. ‘The opening
was left for inspection of the interior. The gap in the zygomatic arch is probably one of
the results of postmortem warping.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 8

Top view. The large piece of bone forming the center of the vault has only a short hinge
type of connection with the right side. Note the deformity of the left supraorbital
ridge. ‘The cross marks the position of bregma, where the sagittal suture meets the
corona! suture.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 10

Back view. The upper part of the occiput has a small and somewhat uncertain connection
with the right side. On the left of the occiput is a gap attributed to postmortem warping.
Note the large digastric fossa behind each mastoid.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 11

Back view. Very fine stippling represents interior of nasal cavity and adjacent antra.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Stewart PLATE 12

View of base. Note the asymmetry of the zygomatic arches, the wear of the upper teeth,
the flattening of the left glenoid fossa, and the relatively large foramen magnum.
THE RESTORED SHANIDAR I SKULL-—STEWART 479

enumerated) make the Shanidar I skull a most valuable addition to
the list of examples of ancient man.

There remains to point out a few morphological details which the
eye does not detect immediately, or which are not visible, in the pic-
tures. I direct attention first to the flatness of the face in the infra-
orbital region. The lack of a fossa in this place—so common in mod-
ern man—together with the elongation of this portion of the face, gives
an impression of unusual massiveness. A correspondingly large an-
trum fills the inside of this part of the face from the orbit to the roots
of the teeth. Also, curiously, the floor of the nasal aperture does not
go straight back as in modern man, but slopes down rapidly and levels
off more than 1 cm. below the bottom of the aperture (see pl.5). Note,
too, that there are numerous little foramina in the facial bones, es-
pecially about the orbits.

Next, I would point out the wear of the teeth. In the molar areas
this wear has eliminated much of the enamel and has created a flat
occlusal surface. More peculiar is the wear of the anterior teeth, the
incisors and canines particularly, which consists not only in the loss
of all the enamel, but in more extreme wear anteriorly and posteriorly
than in the center and on the sides. Thus the acclusal surface of each
of these teeth is smoothly curved in the anterior-posterior axis with
the convexity of the curve meeting that of the opposed tooth. Wear
of this type likely was associated with the habitual holding of objects
between the front teeth rather than with ordinary chewing of food.
I was much impressed also by the robustness of the lower lateral inci-
sors, which in modern man often are quite diminutive. The missing
central incisors may have been even larger.

In this connection it is noteworthy that the lower jaw has been well
sculptured by attaching muscles. This is particularly true of the
underside of the symphysis where there are well-defined depressions
for the origins of the genioglossus, geniohyoid, and digastric muscles.
The large and asymmetrical ascending rami are also interesting. In
reconstructing the tips of the coronoid processes I may not have ex-
tended them enough. Both glenoid processes have lateral tubercles
and the articular surface of the left process is abnormally flattened.
It is not clear to me whether this alteration is associated with tooth
wear or with the facial injuries described above. On the lingual side
of the ascending rami the mylohyoid canals have remained open.

Finally, I would direct attention to the auditory meatus, which
have their circular outlines altered by exostoses. On each side the
lumen is almost occluded by these bony growths. So farasIam aware

5This can be further explained now by the fact that Shanidar I had no right hand
and therefore used the front teeth for holding objects (see Stewart, 1959).

492520—59. 32

480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

now, ear exostoses have not been found before in ancient man. In
modern man the incidence of this abnormality is quite variable. It is
not yet clear what causes them.

Many other details remain to be described, but for the most part
they need to be evaluated in terms of comparative data. At least these
initial comments will serve to make the pictures more intelligible and
thus give a broad idea of the importance of the specimen. It should
be remembered, however, that physical type is incompletely revealed
by even the best description of the skull alone. When I am able to
add more to the description of the skull and to present the evidence
from the rest of the skeleton, the evolutionary position of the first
Mousterian adult from Shanidar will become clearer.

REFERENCES
BouLs, MARCELLIN.
1911-138. L’homme fossile de La Chapelle-aux-Saints. Ann. Paléont., Paris,
vol. 6, pp. 111-171; vol. 7, pp. 21-192; vol. 8, pp. 1-70; pls. 1-19.
Coon, CARLETON 8.
1957. The seven caves: Archeological exploration in the Middle East. 338
pp. New York.
HrpuicK A, ALES.
1935. Ear exostoses. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 93, No. 6, 100 pp.
McCown, THEODORE D., and KEITH, Str ARTHUR.
1939. The stone age of Mount Carmel. The fossil human remains from the
Levalloiso-Mousterian, vol. 2, xxiv + 390 pp., pls. 1-28. Oxford.
SENYUREK, MUZAFFER.
1957a. The skeleton of the fossil infant found in Shanidar Cave, northern
Iraq. Preliminary report. Anatolia, Rev. Ann. Inst. Archéol.,
Univ. Ankara, vol. 2, pp. 49-55.
1957b. A further note on the palaeolithic Shanidar infant. Anatolia, Rev.
Ann. Inst. Archéol., Univ. Ankara, vol. 2, pp. 111-120.
SoLECKI, RALPH S.
1957a. Shanidar Cave. Sci. Amer., vol. 197, No. 5, pp. 58-64.
1957b. Two Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave. Sumer, vol. 13,
Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 59-60.
Stewart, T. D.
1951. The problems of earliest claimed representatives of Homo sapiens.
Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol., vol. 15, pp. 97-107.
1959. Restoration and study of the Shanidar i Neanderthal skeleton in
Baghdad, Iraq. Yearbook Amer. Philos. Soe. for 1958, pp. 274-278.

®°T have learned since that Shanidar I is not unique in this regard. In describing the
ear openings of La Chapelle-aux-Saints, Boule (1913, p. 44) says, ‘‘Ces orifices présentent
quelques exostoses. L’orifice gauche est rétréci vers son milieu par des productions osseuses
qui lui donnent une forme en sablier.”” Apparently Hrdlitka failed to observe this for he
says (1935, p. 79): “It is not known, and will probably never be determined, when in the
existence of man the abnormality of ear exostoses made its first appearance. No case of
the growths has as yet been reported in early (geologically ancient) man, and none even
from the Neolithic period, though that does not necessarily mean that they were absent.”’
Acculturation in the Guajira’

By Raymonp E. Crist

Research Professor of Geography
University of Florida

[With 8 plates]

In A PREVIOUS PAPER (“The Land and People of the Guajira Penin-
sula,” Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Institution, 1957, pp. 839-355) the au-
thor discussed the physical setting and some significant features of the
cultural geography of the Guajira Peninsula. It is the purpose of this
paper to present the results of a study of the process whereby those of
Guajiro culture accept or reject the cultural values of modern Vene-
zuela. For this study, intensive, on-the-spot investigations were made
in La Gloria, a tiny Guajiro settlement 100 kilometers north of
Maracaibo.

CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL HIGHLIGHTS

It is a matter of historical record that the rich and extensive Indian
cultures of Mexico and of Peru collapsed like the proverbial house of
cards under the impact of a mere handful of Spanish Conquistadores.
In striking contrast, the Indians of the desertic, isolated, and inhos-
pitable Guajira Peninsula—a kind of dead end of Nature—who were
a much less numerous and more primitive group, living by hunting
and fishing, with perhaps occasional raids on the weaker or less war-
like neighbors within their range, were able not only to survive but to
enrich their culture and by those tokens increase their numbers. They
adopted into their scheme the domestic animals introduced by the
Spaniards and created a pastoral society that has persisted over the
centuries, despite unfavorable conditions, down to the present day.

The Guajiro social organization of the present time includes an
assortment of elements. Polygamy flourishes along with matriliny,

+The field and library work on which this paper is based was made possible by a grant
of the Creole Petroleum Corp. Various departments of the organization cooperated in
every way to further the undertaking. Thanks are due the ministries of the Venezuelan
and Colombian Governments that helped to facilitate fieldwork involving movement back
and forth across the frontier; also Prof. Lorenzo Monroy and WD. J. Lamb, who were of
assistance at every step throughout the author’s stay in Venezuela. To Drs. Woodfin L.
Butte and Guillermo Zuloaga, directors of the Creole Petroleum Corp., the writer is es-
pecially grateful.

481
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

for the bride price is a part of the property of the clan of the mother,
and by the same token a kind of economic security for the children to
be born of the union. Perhaps greater male authority was first super-
imposed upon the original matrilineal structure with the adoption of
a pastoral economy, in order to achieve more efficient handling of herds
of livestock; at the same time membership in the maternal clan was
preserved as security against protracted droughts when part or all of
the stock could be accommodated at the waterhole of some distant
clansman.

Once the pastoral way of life was established it was powerfully
reinforced by the cultural factors of bride purchase and polygamy,
for the payment of a groom for his bride is traditionally made in
cattle. Although cash—preferably in bolivars—is becoming more
and more important in many transactions of life, cattle are still the
basis of wealth for most Guajiros, and the families of both bride
and groom are happier if the bride price is paid in cattle. Until
this concept has changed it will be difficult to do much about over-
grazing in vast sectors of the Peninsula. Overgrazing sets in mo-
tion a chain reaction, for it spells an ultimate decrease in the carry-
ing capacity of the land for livestock, and consequently for those
whose livelihood depends on their herds, and thus the end result
often is migration from the Peninsula of both human beings and
their animals. Such migrants often find it more to their liking
to enter gradually the area of Latin culture, and are therefore happy
to settle in a place like La Gloria where the process of acculturation
is operative at degrees of speed that can be somewhat controlled by
the principals. Observations made in the settlement of La Gloria
show that not only in its matrilineal structure, but in many other
important aspects as well, the Guajiro social organization continues
to be receptive to cultural influences from outside. Conclusions
reached in the study of acculturation of the Guajiros might be valid
for investigators of cultures and subcultures elsewhere.

La Gloria is the last—or the first—outpost of the Guajira, a tiny
settlement on the fringe of the great desert. It is here in La Gloria
that the process of acculturation can be most clearly observed, for
those who live here look one way to the Guajira desert and the
other to the asphalt highway that leads to “civilization.” Geograph-
ically and culturally they front both cultures. La Gloria lies 100
kilometers north of Maracaibo, only 3 kilometers beyond the end of
the macadam road that goes from Maracaibo to Paraguaipoa, which
is a regional center and the site of the big Monday Guajiro market.
It is a mere caserio, a diminutive group of houses set among the
white dunes that have been formed by sand blown inland by the ever-
active trade winds from the beach of the Gulf of Maracaibo as much
as 4 or 5 kilometers.
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 483

Beyond the paved road that stops at Paraguaipoa one enters a des-
ert plain that stretches as far as the eye can see. It has no established
roads, and travel is accomplished on foot, on horse or donkey
back, or by jeep or truck. Scattered over its remote reaches are
the Guajiro Indians, living in widely isolated houses, or in caserios,
groups of a few houses, perhaps only two or three, or moving from
place to place, in temporary camps; ceaselessly leading their ani-
mals in search of pasture over the cactus-studded plains, or to far,
infrequent waterholes, or taking them to market; trekking long miles
and many days’ journey to small exchange posts or to the larger, more
distant market towns; traveling often with their women and chil-
dren, their flocks, and all their meager possessions.

The Guajiro, it should always be kept in mind, has for centuries
been a nomad or seminomad. Before the coming of the Spaniards, in
the words of Juan de Castellanos:

Es solo su sustento y su cosecha lo que les puede dar el arco y flecha. (Their
only food supply and harvest is what their bows and arrows win.)

Naturally Indians living in a hunting and gathering stage of economy
were not sedentary; they were forced to range for food over a wide
area. By 1551—within a half century after the arrival of the Span-
iards—they had begun to raise cattle, and especially sheep and goats,
and had entered on the seminomadic way of life that characterizes a
large part of the population to the present day.

The Guajira Peninsula was never actually subdued by the Con-
quistadores. Although the Spaniards made many halfhearted at-
tempts to conquer the Guajira by force, the fact is that the Peninsula
was simply not rich enough in gold or precious stones to make its
conquest worth an all-out effort. But another reason—perhaps the
most important one—why the Guajira Peninsula was not conquered
by the Spaniards was the incessant guerrilla warfare waged by the
Guajiros against any outsiders, with all the ferocity of the old Irish
clans against the English. The cohesive strength of the various clans,
or castas, was amazing. The motto of the Guajiros was:

Suwarajen arijuna, sainjara arijuna. (White man did it, white man will pay
for it.)

It is a matter of course that for these people one of the first steps in
the process of acculturation is to become adjusted to living together,
perhaps first in a caserio, such as La Gloria, later on in a village or
urban agglomeration. For a basic cultural fact of Latin American
life is the village, with its own patron saint who is the protector—a
kind of godfather—of the village and of its individual members. The
“village” has somewhat the meaning of the New England township,
and it may include a number of small settlements, caserios, rancherias,
placitas, etc., the name depending on the country. The nomadic
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Guajiro finds it more congenial first to settle in a caserto such as La
Gloria, which forms an intermediate step between life in the country
and life in a village such as Paraguaipoa or in a city such as Maracaibo.

La Gloria is neither an organized village nor just a group of houses
dispersed at random. Except for the store of the Carvajals, the only
urban function performed by the settlement is that its members visit
back and forth to exchange gossip and to perform household tasks
together. The houses generally are from a hundred yards to a half
mile apart; occasionally two are set close together. In only a single
instance is there a large cluster of houses (pl. 3, fig. 1) in which lives the
extended family of the Carvajals (who will be discussed in detail
later), together with their servants. In their compound the family also
operates a store in which basic food staples may be purchased and in
which produce from the interior may be sold or bartered. Here the
transient Guajiro, after his long trek from the interior, is sympathet-
ically received by people who understand his problems as well as his
language. It might be weeks or months before he would have the
moral strength to enter any of the (to him) imposing edifices in Para-
guaipoa, full of impersonal strangers speaking only Spanish.

MYTHS, MATRILINY, AND MIXED MARRIAGES

The matrilineal character of Guajiro culture meets us at once in the
myths of the Guajiros about the origin of man and of the social order.
In a remote epoch, goes the legend, the goddess of the Guajira married
Mensh, Time, and had several daughters, one of whom married Para,
god of the sea. Of this marriage were born a son and a daughter,
Juyap, or Winter (ie., the rainy season), and Igua, or Spring.
Igua married the god of the winds, Jepirech, and from this union
sprang all the Guajiros.2 In this myth are represented the natural
elements that are of importance to the Guajira: the actual rain, with-
out which life is impossible, and the northeast trade winds that bring
or deny the rain. And the rainy season, Juyap, is the maternal uncle
of all; the one who, in the prevailing order, is the member of the
family with the greatest power and the highest social rank. ‘Thus
the legend is molded to fit the existent social realities of the culture,
at the same time that the transcendental role of the natural elements
in Guajiro economy is recognized.

The gradual, present-day conquest of the Guajira is being effected
in part by the process of mixed marriages, i1.e., between Indian women
and men from outside who are carriers of modern culture, be they
white, Negro, or mestizos. Temporary marriages are entered into
with Indian women by civil and military authorities or by tradesmen,
who buy their wives in accordance with Guajiro law and adapt them-

2 Chaves, M., La Guajira, una region y una cultura de Colombia, Rev. Colombiana
Antrop., vol. 1, No. 1, p. 182, June 1953.
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 485

selves to local customs, and whose children, according to Guajiro tra-
dition, do not belong to them but to their wives. Permanent mar-
riages are made by outsiders who have come to settle in the Peninsula,
some of whom buy a wife or wives in the Guajiro manner, while others
marry one wife according to Catholic rites. Whatever the character
of these mixed marriages, the children are brought up in two cul-
tures. During their early, most impressionable years they are im-
bued with the Guajiro language and with other cultural traits of
their mother.

Many of these mestizo children are educated, at least for a time,
outside the Peninsula, with the result that a layer of “modern” culture
is superimposed or grafted onto the maternal Guajira culture. But
the grafting is not universally successful—in the words of the horti-
culturist, it does not always take. Many who have gone to school or
lived for several years in Caracas or Maracaibo, in Bogota or Baran-
quilla, upon their return to the Guajira appear very happy to settle
down and live in the manner of their Guajiro ancestors. They may
build a permanent, cement-floored house in the nearby settlement of
La Gloria, one that is a far cry from the thatch-roofed, dirt-floored
huts of their unaccultured fellows in the vast desert beyond, but the
idea, for example, of constructing a privy has evidently never oc-
curred to them, and if the visitor asks where such facilities are, a
baffled look comes over the face of his host, who makes a sweeping
gesture with the hands to indicate that the whole wide desert is avail-
able for such use.

The Indians of the Guajira are divided into various clans or blood
groups, castas, each with its distinguishing totem representing the
animal with whose traits, according to legend, the clan was originally
imbued. For centuries every clan was theoretically—and often ac-
tually—on a war footing with all other clans. Blood feuds for real
or imagined causes were common and sometimes resulted in the anni-
hilation or enslavement of the vanquished clan. Marriage was prac-
ticed within the clan. Only recently have marriages between mem-
bers of different clans tended to decrease interclan tensions and blood
feuds. Formerly each member of a clan was considered a blood rela-
tive of every other member. In the course of time the blood relation-
ship of any member came to be restricted to his mother and her an-
cestors, her brothers and sisters and their descendants.

In La Gloria, where some marriages are being performed in the
Catholic Church instead of by purchase and with Guajiro ritual, still
more marked changes in the system of relationship have been intro-
duced. In the case of marriages within the church—which first of
all substitutes the concept of monogamy for the traditional polyga-
mous unions—children are no longer considered to pertain exclusively
to their mother’s clan, nor do they carry her name. Instead the
486 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

children carry their father’s name, and the father’s side of the house
thus becomes more important than the mother’s. At the same time
the avunculate, the authority and the dominant role of the maternal
uncle in the life of the family and clan, is destroyed by the pre-
dominance of the father, whose responsibilities to his children are also
increased. Since the church forbids plural marriages, and the father
has a feeling of greater responsibility toward his children, the tend-
ency to be limited to one wife likewise increases—this in spite of the
fact that Guajiro law can be invoked and a number of wives purchased
outside the church.

The Carvajal family in La Gloria (pl. 1, fig. 1) has been affected
by these various cultural cross currents. The parents themselves were
formally married in the church only a few years ago after 25 years
of common-law marriage and when the eldest of their 11 children was
already grown. The eldest daughter (pl. 1, fig. 2), married in the
church, lives in Maracaibo with her Latin husband and five children,
who speak only Spanish and who will have only vague memories of
the part-Guajiro household of their grandparents. The eldest boy,
Jestis, was also married in the church, but, in spite of several years
at school in Maracaibo, to a pure-blooded Guajira (pl. 2, fig. 1), whose
whole background is Guajiro, who speaks no Spanish, and by whom
he now has a daughter andason. They will be brought up to school
age speaking only the Guajiro language, after which they will also
learn Spanish and thus in time will sit astride the two cultures.

According to Guajiro law, a man acquires a wife through purchase
from her family, by paying a certain sum in cattle, horses, goats,
sheep, and perhaps in some costly jewelry. A girl child accordingly
represents a certain amount of wealth that will come to her family
with the bride price, whereas the boy child will be an economic drain
upon his family when he marries, since they must get together the
bride price, which will leave the family. For this reason the Guajiro
takes better care of his female children and watches over them with
greater solicitude than he does over his male children. This situation
is reflected in the few statistics that are available, which show a much
higher death rate for male than for female children.* When the
Guajiro begins to appreciate certain values of the culture of the
civilizados, the attitude toward male children undergoes a change: the
boy can help his father at an early age, and particularly if his father
is engaged in trade with the Guajiros, he can be an economic asset
rather than a lability.

M. E. S. Hartland, in “Primitive Society,” * observes that “Patri-
archal rule and patrilineal kinship have made perpetual inroads upon
mother-right all over the world; consequently matrilineal institutions

? Roberto Pineda Giraldo, Informe preliminar sobre aspectos sociales y econdémicos de

la Guajira, Bol. Arqueol., December 1947, p. 565.
41921, p. 34.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 1

1. Mr. and Mrs. Carvajal, with seven of their children and one of their grandchildren, in
the inner patio of their home.

2. The eldest daughter, married to a businessman in Maracaibo, with her five children, all
of whom speak only Spanish. Her younger sister is dressed up to take first communion,
on St. Joseph’s Day.
PLATE 2

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist

*PIOM opts}no ay} YIM
$19¥]UOD ][B Ul sor[lwey MWY. IJOf s1ajo1d109}
-ul se yor Aoyy, ‘ystuedg pouivs] Aoyy
d1oyYM vodienseieg Ul [OOYSS 0} Useq DALY
woym jo y10q ‘sayjeq omfendg sunodk OMT, *¢

‘uns
dy? Jo sXvi Zu0ljs ay} wor uotjoa}01d & sv yorIq
poured st aovy ssoym Ape] SunoA ve Aq udAOM
Suloq St USIsap pavoljdurod Jo yoowweyY oB1v] V *Z

*poydessoj0yd aq 07
uos p[O-syaem-7 Jay dn spjoy Ajpnoid
pue ‘powluitij-sov] ‘yjupu Ysoq Jay UO
qnd sey ayg *asensury] onfens saneu
Joy Ajuo—ystuedg ou syvads uos \sopyja
dYyt JO fim outfend papoojq-oind oy], *]

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 3

1. The stockadelike home of the Carvajals, which is store, house, and stockade for sheep
and goats.

ee
-
ena

2. This swale, full of water when it rains, supports a thick stand of grass which is cropped
during the season of drought. Plantains thrive here where the water table is usually
near the surface.

3. Young coconut trees, set out on the dunes, in a few years become a source of regular
income to the owner.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 4

—

1. New arrivals from the bush construct the simplest sort of shelter in which to hang their
hammocks.

2. Cooking is done with the barest essentials.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE, 5

1. Cotton thread is spun by hand for the making of hammocks.

- — ; ~

* “tlle

2. Women whose husbands are working on the ranches south of Maracaibo. Not one of
them speaks Spanish.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 6

PELTON MERTEN TRE SNIP EES CS NEMESIS Gy RARE I

1. The well on the southern edge of La Gloria. Coconut palms are seen in the distance,

beyond the wind-swept sand dunes.

2. The scene around the water tank is animated all day long, as animals drink, gourds are
filled, children are bathed, and clothes, washed in big wooden bateas, or basins.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 7

1. A shallow dug well reaches the water table below the dunes and supplies drinking water

for a household during the long drought.

~ os\

2. At the edge of a coconut grove onions and peppers are grown in the raised frame to the
right. The owner spoke almost no Spanish,
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Crist PLATE 8

1. The women folk especially are always ready to dress up and paint up to dance the
chichamaya.

 & =

2. One family has a thriving business of cutting up old tires and making them into sandals.
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 487

are found in almost all stages of transition to a state of society in
which the father is the center of kinship and government.” These
observations hold true of the Guajira. Changes are continuously
taking place in the matrilineal structure, but at the present time ma-
ternal kinship still continues to exist side by side with institutions of
paternal authority.

LAND TENURE

The land in the Guajira is almost completely baldio, or state owned,
so far as the nation is concerned. The various clans, or castas, how-
ever, occupy lands that, according to oral traditicn, have always been
grazed by the flocks of their ancestors; thus they claim the “im-
memorial rights” of the desert Bedouins. Problems begin to arise
as soon as grazing is no longer the principal activity. When seden-
tary agriculture is carried on, the farmer must know who owns the
land or, at least, who owns the crop. The practice followed at present
is that whoever plants a crop anywhere has the right to the usufruct
of the land planted, as long as he continues to work it. Heirs can
inherit the right of usufruct. The burden of keeping the crop fenced
off against the depredations of migratory flocks rests upon the owner
of the crop.

Since there has been no tradition of landholding by individuals
in fee simple, it is difficult to get people interested in rights to land.
Many persons even build relatively substantial homes, with cement
floors and walls and with aluminum or galvanized-iron roofs, with-
out having made any effort to get what we think of as a clear title—
or any kind of title—to the land. To be sure, in Latin America
generally, rights to real property are vague, and squatters are preva-
lent. Those humble folk who do hold papers often find to their
sorrow that they are notoriously subject to invalidation. Nevertheless
the Guajiro, by his whole background, is conditioned to an acceptance
of vague concepts with reference to landholding, which carries over
into tie zone of acculturation as well.

AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES AND HOUSEHOLD INDUSTRIES

Over the past generation a new note has been added to the cultural
landscape from Sinamaica northward to well past Paraguaipoa—
the coconut grove. Each year new groves are being established (pl.
3, fig. 3) and old groves are being increased in extent. The completion
of the asphalt highway to Paraguaipoa made it possible to extend
groves even farther north because of the ease of transporting the
products to market. While a small number of the coconuts are used
to supply the local demand for the refreshing coconut water, agua de
coco, by far the larger part of the crops is used for the production
of coconut oil, which is extracted from the meat of the ripe coconut
488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

in crude presses, bottled, and shipped to the Maracaibo market.
The residue remaining after the oil has been extracted is used for the
fattening of hogs, which are kept in pens provided with a floor to
keep them off the ground. This measure prevents disease, and in the
small pens the pigs cannot run off their fat.

Although the basic economy of the Guajira is grazing, and has
been for centuries, the Guajiros are not afraid of strenuous physical
toil. ‘They have been inured to the hard work of clearing plots for
growing their yuca or millets, digging wells, and dipping water. The
reply of a cocal owner in La Gloria, who had just planted 400 new
trees, to the statement that he could surely live well, being the owner
of such a fine coconut grove, was that “by dint of hard work one can
live well here, as elsewhere.” Those who own cocales have a more
or less steady income; they can sell green coconuts occasionally in
the local market; they also have the meats of the ripe fruit to eat
themselves or to grind and feed to hogs and chickens for use in the
home. The relatively steady income also makes it possible for them
to buy and consume more of the protective foods than can those who
have only the meager wages of menfolk working on the distant
ranches in the foothills of the Perijé Mountains.

One might hazard the guess that at the present rate of planting
coconut trees, within another 20 years most of the available sand-
dune area between Paraguaipoa and Cojoro may be planted in that
crop. The Guajiro or mestizo who establishes a coconut grove is
himself the active agent of change of his own physical environment—
and he so sees himself. He is already well along in the process of
acculturation, for it is then an easy step to acceptance of certain
of the nonmaterial elements of Latin culture, in which he has already
achieved economic security, or anchorage. In La Gloria, too, on
the strip of sand dunes inland from the Gulf, groves are being estab-
lished by forward-looking settlers.

Although long months of drought had completely dried up the
fresh-water lagoon that lies in the midst of the dunes east of the main
area of La Gloria, the water table beneath the dunes was still only
a few yards deep and could be easily reached by digging a shallow
well (pl. 7, fig. 1). In time of drought water from shallow wells
is dipped up by hand to water the young coconut trees whose roots
have not yet reached the ground-water table. (Trees are planted
in August and September, before the annual rains are scheduled to
arrive in October, November, and December.) This water is also
used for irrigating by hand the small kitchen gardens, called barba-
coas, a kind of cold-frame structure on legs 3 feet high (pl. 7, fig. 2),
in which is put a mixture of loam, sand, and animal manure 8 or
10 inches in depth to form a bed of good soil, and in which a few
onions and peppers are grown for home use. It might be mentioned
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 489

that south of Maracaibo, barbacoa agriculture is carried on on a large
commercial scale.

At the edge of the La Gloria lagoon grows a row of banana trees
that supply plantains, or cooking bananas, an important item in
the local diet. As the lagoon gradually dries up, grass grows in its
moist bed (pl. 3, fig. 2). This is eagerly harvested and doled out
parsimoniously to the livestock that is most valuable and at the
same time most in need.

The Guajira is a land of hammocks. Girls brought up in the
Guajiro tradition learn to weave at an early age while helping their
mothers (pl. 2, fig. 2). When a girl arrives at adolescence and
undergoes the ritual of purification, the blangueo or “blanching,” she
is secluded in a room or special hut for a period of many months.
During this time of enforced seclusion she learns the domestic virtues
of cooking, weaving in intricate patterns and designs, and how to
please her husband. She may weave belts and moneybags for her
future husband, and she usually weaves an enormous hammock which
is put away for her own use at marriage. The weaving of ham-
mocks has been carried to a high degree of perfection. In a majority
of the houses in La Gloria women are engaged in this activity. It is
an operation that can be carried on alone or together with one or two
companions, and that can be performed at odd moments between
other more pressing chores. A good hammock requires several
months to complete, but since hammocks sell for from a hundred to
two hundred bolivars or more apiece, a tidy sum may be realized.
The opportunity of working together makes the occupation of ham-
mock making particularly attractive to many of the women of
La Gloria, whose menfolk are absent for long periods of time work-
ing in Maracaibo or in Perija.

The centuries-old pattern of polygamy has conditioned Guajiro
women to adjusting themselves to long absences of their menfolk;
they have become used, in accordance with immemorial custom, to
carrying on for months or even years at a time their daily routine
of living and working without the man of the house. Matrilineal
ties are still so strongly structured that the wife can continue to
build a satisfying family life which takes such long absences without
disruption; she has her weaving to keep her busy and her thoughts
occupied, and she can turn for help or advice to her brothers or to
a maternal uncle or some other man of her blood who is available
in an emergency. Furthermore, where one of the features of the
cultural background has been a nomadic or seminomadic way of life,
migration of itself is not a disruptive or even a disturbing factor,
for the individual capacity of readjustment to change is hardly
strained at all. To be sure, many of those living in La Gloria ex-
perience periods of food scarcity, if not actual want. To the question.
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Why were the men in Ziruma?—the Guajiro slum sector of Mara-
caibo—a lone woman in her one-room hut, deftly weaving a beautiful
hammock, made the shattering and unanswerable reply, “Ziruma is
better than the Guajira when you are starving.”

One Guajiro who has worked at times as a chauffeur in the oilfields,
and who now does odd jobs in the way of trucking and hauling pro-
duce to market, operates a little repair shop out in the open air at the
side of his house. Between periods of traveling around the Guajira
he spends his time in La Gloria reconditioning a beat-up truck or a
jeep of ancient vintage, either bought as a bargain in Maracaibo or
retired after many years’ service over the bumpy trails of the Guajira;
he sets up his own work schedule and works when he has the time
and feels like it; one is amazed at the ingenuity he shows in tackling
difficult jobs. He is considered a master mechanic, and he has as
helper or apprentice an intelligent industrious Guajiro youth who
is learning the trade.

Incipient industries have also been started by enterprising in-
dividuals. One householder has started up a thriving business
making sandals with soles cut from castoff rubber tires (pl. 8, fig. 2).
His womenfolk make on small hand looms the bands of coarse cotton
fiber with which the sandals are held firmly in place on the foot.
These products are sold in the local market at Paraguaipoa and are
also bought up in job lots by merchants for distribution in Maracaibo.
The maker has the advantages of living in a low-rent zone, of having
the help of his womenfolk, and of having no transportation or dis-
tribution problems.

There is also a jeweler who lives in one of the tiny huts, and whose
personal history and background are shrouded and vague. He was
the only person who spoke no Guajiro, who was not hospitable, who
wanted no pictures taken at all. Although he claimed to be from
Maracaibo, he was reportedly from Colombia. It is possible that he
may be in Venezuela for his health, that behind the front of gold
and silver smelting he is engaged in activities of a secretive or clan-
destine order.

That La Gloria is a zone of cultural transition is shown by the
various house types, a reflection of the cultural background and the
degree of acculturation of the builder and owner. There is no fixed
pattern; everyone builds what his purse, his fancy, and his degree of
acculturation indicate as feasible. New arrivals from the interior may
construct a simple framework set on four posts and covered with
palm leaves for shade (pl. 4, fig. 1). There are no walls, ham-
mocks are slung from the uprights, and cooking is done in the open
(pl. 4, fig. 2). Such a primitive home may be lived in for weeks or
even months, after which the owners may build a somewhat more
pretentious home, or they may leave for the bush again. They are
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 491

comparable to the Bedouins who come in off the desert of North
Africa or Arabia and camp near the villages or cities while they de-
cide whether to cast in their lot with the city dwellers or return to
the desert to live under the black tents again. The houses of the
man with two wives, located about 100 yards apart, are typical of
the area around the lagoon of Sinamaica where the houses have walls
made of rush mats and roofs of palm-leaf thatch. Those who are
well accultured and have enough money will build a house with a
cement floor, adobe walls, and thatch roof. The more sophisticated
will plaster the adobe walls with a layer of cement, and many even
have a roof of eternit or of galvanized iron.

THE CARVAJAL FAMILY: ACCULTURATIONAL LEAVEN

A kind of nucleus for this loosely knit settlement is formed by
the stockadelike home of Manuel Carvajal (pl. 3, fig. 1) who first
settled in La Gloria 27 years ago. This is rather an agglomeration
of one-room units, built with the passage of the years to take care of
the family as it gradually increased in size. The central
cement-floored structure is used as a dining room, and a living-
reception room. At night it accommodates a number of ham-
mocks for guests or for family. Around this are other one-room
houses, in which the family lives its private life, and in which the
cooking is done and servants and hangers-on sleep. Mr. Carvajal
has long been in the business of buying, transporting, and selling
livestock. To one side of the cluster of rooms it is possible to drive
trucks and jeeps into the fenced-in enclosure. Here animals can be
unloaded from the trucks, sorted out and reloaded. Animals not
to be reshipped immediately or those arriving on foot can be driven
through the corridor between the dining-living room and the structure
in which the cooking is done to the large, sturdily built corral on the
other side of the agglomeration. Mr. Carvajal is also the only one
in this locality who keeps a store, where produce from the interior
may be sold or exchanged and where such necessities as yuca, corn,
beer, yard goods, and now gasoline and oil may be bought. Thus
the increased number of functions made expansion of the original
dwelling imperative. The entire compound, surrounded by a high,
well-built fence, is a self-contained unit which looks like a frontier
stockade.

Mr. Carvajal is ideally equipped to act as an agent of what might
be called cultural penetration; born and brought up in Sinamaica,
he is a typical product of Latin American culture; energetic and
adventurous, he began trading with the Guajiros as a young man, and
went all over the Peninsula selling yard goods, tobacco, and other
necessities, buying or taking in exchange produce of the countryside,
such as goatskins, divi divi pods, and soon. During the early years
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

he traveled alone, with a train of burres to carry his wares; after he
married he was often accompanied on his journeys by his wife and
children. His business prospered greatly when he was accompanied
by his wife who, being a mestiza, daughter of a Venezuelan father and
a Guajiro mother, knew the language and customs well and was thus
an invaluable aid in all business transactions. The business increased
in volume; the family increased in numbers; the time finally came
when it was necessary to have a kind of permanent headquarters.
What would be more natural than that this couple settle on the
Guajiro side of the economic capital of the district, to work out their
destiny in the zone of active acculturation north of Paraguaipoa,
where the two cultures interpenetrate? Here they are educating a
family of children that includes six sons and five daughters to feel
at home in both cultures. The boys have traveled with their parents
over much of the Guajira, have pleasant, outgoing personalities, and
are Serious and cooperative; several daughters have attended school
in Maracaibo, where the eldest has married and is the mother of five
handsome, Spanish-speaking children.

DIET, ALCOHOLISM, AND MEDICAL CARE

Except for those who own and operate coconut groves, most of the
inhabitants of La Gloria buy their foodstuffs from the store on a day-
to-day basis with the money received from the menfolk who work
in Maracaibo or on the ranches in the foothills of the Perijé Moun-
tains. As acculturation proceeds in La Gloria, Guajiros tend to buy
from the store cheap starchy foods such as cooking bananas, polished
rice, canned oatmeal, and packaged macaroni and spaghetti. There
is an orientation, in cooking, toward what tastes good or sweet; the
theory of balanced meals has made little headway. As new foods
are incorporated into the diet, there is decreased consumption of one
of the traditional dishes, the healthful and filling thick soup, maza-
mora, made of bitter yuca and goat’s milk; bottled soft drinks of
many hues and weird flavors are substituted for the vitamin-rich
chicha, a refreshing fermented native beer, made of corn, of millets,
or of cactus fruits. The factor of prestige enters into dietary habits.
There is more status, for instance, in eating white bread than the
arepa de mais, with the result that more and more white bread and
rolls are substituted for the old-fashioned corn patty, especially on
festive occasions. This change in dietary and drinking habits has
brought on a marked increase in tooth decay among those who live
in La Gloria. The Guajiros living out on the Peninsula almost
invariably have fine teeth.

Alcoholism is rampant throughout the Peninsula among the male
Indian population. Malnutrition and a monotonous diet may be
among the reasons for this excessive fondness for firewater, but it
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 493

is significant that heavy drinking is done exclusively by the men.
In the face of the niggardly, inhospitable Guajiro physical environ-
ment, it is not surprising that some, a prey to frustrations, would
hope to drown their worries in alcohol. Perhaps Guajiro men feel,
like men in many other societies, that the ability to imbibe large
quantities of alcohol is a mark of manly strength and valor. What-
ever the reasons, in many of the small caserios or individual houses
the menfolk will stay drunk for days or even weeks. However, to
the observer it seems that there is less addiction to alcohol in La
Gloria than among the unaccultured Guajiros, in spite of certain
inevitable tensions brought about by the disturbances in the cus-
tomary patterns of living implied by the assumption of a sedentary
way of life by aseminomadic people.

It is possible that in the process of being incorporated in the
national economy, Guajiros become keenly aware of the importance
of clear-headedness in commercial transactions. To be sure, fiestas
are still popular and the men still enjoy a good drunk, but there
seems to be a tendency to cut down the amount of time spent in ritual
drinking.

In La Gloria, as elsewhere in the Guajira, the diseases that cause
the high rate of infant mortality are intestinal infections of all kinds,
due largely to the complete lack of what is known as infant care.
In a house with sand or dirt floors, small children, living as they do
in close proximity to pigs and chickens and putting in their mouths
what they can find, are naturally subject to such ills as stomach aches,
vomiting, diarrhea, and intestinal fevers.

Faith in the old-time magic of the piache, or witch doctor—usually
an old woman—appears to be one of the first items to be lost in the
process of acculturation ; the “medicine” of the witch doctor, however
strong, is often such as to make for the rapid aggravation of the dis-
ease rather than for its cure. However, cases are not rare of Guajiros
who, accultured to the extent of using trained doctors and modern
medicines and techniques when ill, would be found at the same time
to be consulting a witch doctor—just to be on the safe side. Indeed,
the results of the introduction of modern medicine are not always
as felicitous as might be expected or as happy as could be desired.
For one thing, modern preventive measures are neglected in favor
of modern curative medicines—and the more powerful the better.
Injections are all the rage in La Gloria as elsewhere. Itinerant ped-
dlers of injections carry on their “ministrations” openly even in the
streets of the large metropolitan center of Maracaibo; hence it is
not to be wondered at that those who are groping toward the light,
away from the darkness of cures by magic of the Guajiro culture,
should seize on this new magic of modern medicine. Thus persons
with no knowledge of asepsis—much less of curative medicine—give
494. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

injections of powerful drugs that can in some cases be dangerous even
when administered by a trained doctor or technician.

In many parts of the world, being sick confers prestige, because
only those in a privileged position can afford the time to be sick, the
time to think of their symptoms, and especially the money to buy medi-
cines. This aspect of “conspicuous waste” is seized upon avidly by
people in process of acculturation in La Gloria as elsewhere, who there-
in find an easy way to achieve prestige. By discussing in public the
symptoms of one’s ills, real or imaginary, one proves that he can afford
to be sick. Guajiros recently arrived in La Gloria spend almost no
time or money on doctors or medicines; the greater the degree of
acculturation, the greater the amount of time and money spent on
sicknesses. Further prestige can be achieved if one boasts of the
amount of money he spends for medicines and the amount of time
he spends in the hammock recovering from injections, usually admin-
istered by himself or by a friend, without the advice of a doctor.
A person suffering from amoebic dysentery may be receiving injec-
tions of solutions of calcium, of penicillin, or of any one of the modern
wonder drugs instead of the specific cure for his disease. A person
who accidentally falls into a tankful of the insecticide used to dip ani-
mals to rid them of their ticks will be given the “necessary” injections!
A penicillin shot is better for a headache than aspirin, of course,
because penicillin costs more and thus gives more prestige.

CULTURE, EDUCATION, AND LITERACY

Through culture—the body of material objects, traditions, and
stereotyped mental processes—man is capable of developing a second-
ary environment that makes it easier for him to adapt himself to the
physical conditions—and them to himself—in the area in which he is
born and reared. ‘The numerous human adjustments to the natural
physical environment as well as to the artificial or cultural environ-
ment have to be acquired by each generation. Education has in gen-
eral taken place simply by the influence of the surrounding and
all-pervading cultural environment on the ripening mind of each
individual in any given society; for thousands of years all over the
world the family has been the first and most important educational
institution for all; the older generation simply passed on to the chil-
dren the skills, religious concepts, and traditions of the culture. Such
education was simply the inculcation of the established tradition, and
as such had nothing to do with literacy. Since literacy as such was not
necessary to the Guajiro for coping with his physical and social
environments, the language is still unwritten. Many are the Guajiros
today—even in La Gloria—who feel no compulsion to learn Spanish.
The women especially, the traditional carriers of the cultural pattern,
particularly in a matriliny, have no urge to learn Spanish. Many of
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 495

them, living in La Gloria, in Paraguaipoa, or even in Maracaibo, are
content to speak Guajiro all their lives, and of course to pass it on to
their children, without so much as an attempt to learn Spanish.

Upon one occasion we arrived in the jeep at dusk at the well just
south of La Gloria (pl. 6, fig.1). A group of six or eight Guajiro men
were ina palaver. One large, raw-boned individual, although so drunk
he was lying flat on his back when we arrived, was helped to his feet
by his indulgent and respectful fellows, never losing his dignity. Once
his bleary, bloodshot eyes had told him that he was in the presence of
gente de pantalén, or civilizados, he spoke in an imposing, somewhat
boastful voice. His first words were, “I am an Indian, but I speak
Spanish like anyone else.” Obviously for this particular Guajiro the
speaking of Spanish was a cultural achievement of which he was very
proud and which added to his prestige among his own fellows. Indeed
he was the only one among this particular group who could communi-
cate, however brokenly, in that language.

Those born of parents of different cultures are confronted with the
task of sorting out and choosing the values from both cultures most
congenial to them. Those who show an aptitude for learning and
using Spanish, as soon as they associate with others who know and use
the language, are often the ones who avidly assume the other attitudes
and attributes of Latin culture; for the degree of culture or of accul-
turation depends not only on the plasticity of innate endowment, but
upon the sentiments and whims, the tastes and foibles of each individ-
ual. For instance some Guajiros and even mestizos in La Gloria—and
some Latins—prefer to identify themselves with Guajiro culture, to
buy several wives according to Guajiro law, and thus to have and to
rear children who are culturally Guajiros; others marry one wife, use
Spanish whenever possible, may even move to Maracaibo, and thus
gradually become, with their family, incorporated completely into
Latin culture.

By and large, however, the Guajiro is proud of his race, of being
Indian, of speaking his Guajiro language, and this is equally true of
many mestizos, Guajiro on the mother’s side of the house. And al-
though it is true that in most of Colombia and in certain sectors or
social strata of Venezuela an Indian ancestry is something to be de-
nied, ashamed of, or at least not to be boasted of, this is in general
not true of those who have Guajiro blood. This is probably due to
the fact that Guajiro culture itself contains many norms, values, and
elements common to, or similar to, those found in the system of Span-
ish American values. For instance, Guajiros are proud, individual-
istic, and valiant (muy valiente) ; they have a highly developed sense
of personal and human dignity, and an injury or insult to an individ-
ual is considered an attack upon the clan and must be paid for in
money or animals, or even in blood; Guajiros live openly, according

492520—59-_33
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

to tribal law, with many wives—a desideratum, to be sure, of many
men in divers cultures—and are certainly as possessive of their fe-
males and as intent upon being a he-man, a macho, as those of Span-
ish American culture. Perhaps it could be stated that in general
the greater the number of values held in common by two cultures
effecting fusion, the more gradual the process of acculturation.

EMIGRATION AND ACCULTURATION

The Guajiro has supplied a current of migration to other sectors
of the Republics of Colombia and Venezuela—male relatives or those
already established in the vicinity of Paraguaipoa visit their kin-
folk in La Gloria, sometimes for a period of several months, before
continuing on to the Perijé area in search of work. Those who have
absolutely nothing often walk the whole long way from Maracaibo—
sometimes even from Paraguaipoa—to the ranch area, looking for
work on the way. This they do not consider an unusual hardship, ac-
customed as they have been since early childhood to walking great
distances as they followed their flocks back and forth across their
homeland, the Guajira Peninsula. By whatever means they arrive at
the ranch, it is a fact that the labor force on the new ranches that have
been and still are being opened up southwest of Maracaibo, in the foot-
hills of the Perij4 Mountains, consist almost 100 percent of Guajiros,
many of whom spend some time in a kind of “proving ground” or zone
of cultural transition, such as La Gloria.

Many Guajiros unfortunately are plunged into the foreign Latin
culture instead of gradually absorbing it, and being absorbed in it,
as are those in zones of acculturation like La Gloria. In the upper
Guajira, hundreds of Guajiros are packed each week into old beaten-
up trucks, transformed into buses by the simple expedient of placing
heavy planks crosswise in the body of the truck to serve as seats;
Thursdays and Fridays these lumbering trucks move their human
cargo over the rocky, bumpy trails to Paraguaipoa, and thence over
the paved highway to Maracaibo; there the Guajiros are thrust into
the very thick of life in a modern metropolis, with all its pitfalls
for the unwary who do not speak the official language; all too often
they absorb only the less desirable features of modern urban life,
perhaps beginning with overdrinking and all too often ending up in
fights and brawls that may even land them in jail.

CONCLUSIONS

Will the modern improvements now being incorporated in Guajiro
society change it root and branch, or will they merely strengthen the
tough fibers of this vital, long-lived culture that has successfully
withstood the impact of new races and new elements of material cul-
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 497

ture? Over the centuries the Guajiro way of life has altered in some
phases, but its core has remained essentially the same.

What gives to Guajiro society its cohesive strength? What fea-
tures make possible for its members a life of fulfillment? What are
the elements that nourish in them a lasting loyalty? A culture
which, to the outsider, appears to be characterized mainly by routine,
monotony, and drudgery, may yet offer for those living in it so many
intangible or psychic compensations, so much pleasure for the flesh
and poetry for the spirit, that they find in it the ideal way of life.
Only a prolonged analysis can provide the whole answer. Neverthe-
less a basic twofold aspect early impresses the observer: Guajiro
society is interdependent, cooperative, and fraternal, and the bonds of
family are strong. Surrounded in infancy by maternal and family
love, accepted and protected—so long as there exist the barest means
of subsistence—already in tender years contributing in their measure
to the cooperative unit, with chores and duties and responsible de-
meanor, children early have a feeling that they belong, and acquire
a sense of individual human dignity. The landscape of their larger
environments to those who compel it to yield up a living, however
meager, seems friendly rather than hostile, and, because it seems
friendly, attractive. Most of us recall with nostalgic pleasure the
physical scenes of our childhood, which we endow with semimagic
qualities. The Guajiro feels the same charm in those wide stretches
of lonely sand and scrub and cactus, windblown and sun-parched, the
muted palette relieved by sudden flashes of bright-plumaged birds and
a hint of the blue sea beyond the distant dunes: this is the home of
his people, these the broad preserves of the close-knit brotherhood of
the Guajiros.

The physical environment of the Guajira is so harsh as to seem
at first glance to preclude the possibility of evolving or maintaining
aculture. The fact that a society has succeeded in doing so in spite of
the inhospitable physical environment speaks very highly for the in-
trinsic values preserved in the culture. To be sure, the manmade laws,
rules of conduct and taboos that men live by, tend to be absolute, to
allow of no deviations. Society establishes severe sanctions for those
who strike out on untried paths. Nature is more pliable, more resili-
ent, and physical factors seem often to allow of more leeway in adjust-
ment by, for, and to man than does the cultural environment created by
man himself.

All over the Guajira Peninsula there is a ferment of acculturation
as the Guajiros sink their cultural roots, as it were, deep into both re-
publics—beyond Machiques in Venezuela, and beyond Valledupar in
Colombia; the process is relatively rapid in La Gloria, whose in-
habitants, neither exclusively Guajiro in culture nor completely
498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

“Latin American,” or Criolla, are in a transitional stage between the
two; they are in the process of selecting those elements and adopting
those attitudes in the two cultures with which they feel physically and
psychically most at home, most comfortable, and which they at the
same time feel give most prestige and offer the best possibility of
making a living within the framework of the newly adopted prestige
structure. There are many valid values in Guajiro culture for both
Indians and Latins, and the reciprocal process of acculturation pro-
ceeds gradually. The Guajiros in La Gloria are fortunate in having
a zone in which they can maneuver their cultural forces, as it were,
and slowly sort out the values that seem suitable.

In spite of droughts, hard work, and lean days, life in La Gloria is
interesting and dynamic; everyone feels to a greater or less degree the
pull of the two cultures, and the responses often depend on wholly
intangible factors. One man will prefer monogamy because he is un-
ashamedly in love with his wife, another because he always felt that
his mother—one of the several wives of his father—did not have a
fair deal, while still another will marry several wives a la Guajiro
because he simply likes variety; one woman will give up painting her
face black as a protection against the sun after once seeing Latin
women of Maracaibo without black paint, while another will continue
to paint her face, and that of her daughter, no matter how many times
she goes to Maracaibo, because her mother before her always painted
her face, and her mother always knew the right thing to do! And
so on, and so on, with each individual case. It is impossible to predict
beforehand which element of material or nonmaterial culture will be
seized upon and held fast. Reason and logic are seldom invoked by
human societies to determine what is decent or indecent, clean or un-
clean, valid or invalid, good or bad; the members of each society feel
that what they do is decent, clean, valid, and good, “for thinking makes
it so.”

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

Agustin, José pDE BARRANQUILLA.
1953. Asiesla Guajira. 2ded. Bogota.
ARMSTRONG, JOHN M., and M&Traux, ALFRED.
1948. The Guajiros. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 148, Handbook of South
American Indians, vol. 4, pp. 369-383.
BENITEZ, RAFAEL.
1957. La Guajira en 1874. Ed. Marco Aurelio Vila. Maracaibo.
CHAVES, MILCIADES.
1946. Mitos, leyendas y cuentos de la Guajira. Bol. Arqueol., vol. 2, No. 4,
pp. 305-332.
1951. Emigraci6n Guarija. Bol. Soc. Geogr. Colombia, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 5-28.
Crist, R. B.
1958. The land and people of the Guajira Peninsula. Ann. Rep. Smithso-
nian Inst. for 1957, pp. 339-355.
ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA—CRIST 499

Eenst, A.
1887. Die ethnographische Stellung der Guajiro-Indianer. Zeitschr.
Ethnol., vol. 19, pp. 425-444.
1892-1893. Idem. El Cojo Illustrado, Nos. 22-25.
GALLEGOS, ROMULO.
1944. Sobre la Misma Tierra. Caracas.
GUTIERREZ DE PINEDA, VIRGINIA.
1950. Organizaci6n social de la Guajira. Rey. Inst. Etnol. Nac., vol. 3,
pp. 1-257.
HERNANDEZ DE ALBA, GREGORIO.
1936. Etnologia Guajira. 2d ed. Bogota.
Martinez- CABANA, CARLOS.
1955. Rugged individualists thrive in the Guajira Peninsula. Americas,
July, pp. 7-12.
PINEDA GIRALDO, ROBERTO.
1949. Informe preliminar sobre aspectos sociales y econémicos de la Guajira.
Exxpedicién 1947. Bol. Arqueol., vol. 2, Nos. 5-6, pp. 529-572.
1950. Aspectos de la magia en la Guajira. Rey. Inst. Etnol. Nac., vol. 8,
pp. 1-154.
REICHEL-DOLMATOFF, GERARDO.
1951. Datos historico-culturales sobre las tribus de la Antigua gobernacién
de Santa Marta. 131 pp. Bogota.
StuTzer, OTTo.
1927. Streifzuege eines Geologen im Bebiete der Goajira-Indianer. Berlin.
1934. Contribucién a la geologia de la Peninsula de la Goajira, en compila-
cién de los estudios geolégicos officiales en Colombia. 1917 a 1923.
Vol. 2, pp. 211-248. Bogotd.
TANNER, HANS.
1951. Ethnologische Beobachtungen in der Guajira Halbinsel. Geogr.
Helveticano, vol. 4.
WESTON, JULIAN A.
1937. The cactus eaters. London.
ane

yale pot (3) DRED AR isis

A) Git Sasa s

w i.)

CLL. 8

oY | Li 7

_

ane a.

|

S f Bey! t (ial aire

Tai! rae Suton tif tesserae

wah REPRE LG Bi ie Se a pile)
ot ea y Our Ole Lite Cet} ,

; AS

oy Pv det a ere oe 1) ates y

Pee ene ence ee wits

7 lL ab aie Pil ice: ies i eee

poe ane ie

a oe

eifiad

P10 ths \ os aa.
, | ie
AT iisihby ie is Laks juniee ’
; gy j
hi ; Ld Vesa ie eb bbe

bi, ae IRR iy { ; es
be UE) Tend xy
( tae 6 Wihud
vi 4
ha
'
14 : kya! iar
oY BUSH eS -_
wi yeah
-
Ue “wd AIS eS oe 2a
Fate) ,
pA hats

BO sotite: Velma eis ye se sts
The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito '

By Net M. Jupp

Associate in Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution

[With 6 plates]

Tue HucE, detached section of sandstone cliff that long towered
above the rear rooms of Pueblo Bonito finally collapsed January 22,
1941. And when it fell, as the Bonitians feared, it did vast damage to
their beautiful village.

L. T. McKinney, custodian of Chaco Canyon National Monument at
the time of the collapse, reported that the fall came with a tremendous
roar at 3:24 p.m. following intermittent rumblings of several hours’
duration. Frost action was doubtless a contributing factor, since the
winter of 1940-41 is said to have been unusually cold and wet in Chaco
Canyon. Between March 1934 and December 1940 the Southwestern
Monuments Monthly Reports recorded periodic measurements to show
that the famous cliff was slowly settling but I find nothing relative to
its tragic end.

A mass of solid sandstone 150 feet long, 100 feet high, 20 to 30 feet
thick, and weighing nearly 30,000 tons, the great cliff overhanging
Pueblo Bonito was indeed a fearful, awe-inspiring body. It was a
living, breathing thing! As one stood to admire, it seemed actually
to lean forward to engulf one (pl. 2, fig. 2).

We cannot know whether the occupants of Pueblo Bonito endowed
the monster rock with any mystical quality, but they probably did not.
They certainly recognized it as an ever-present danger but they prob-
ably reasoned that it could be restrained or conquered more surely by
human ingenuity and determination than by prayer and sacrifice to
their gods. (In our examination we observed no trace of propitiatory
offerings.) They conquered at least their fears of it by a succession
of primitive engineering measures that succeeded far better than they
could have hoped for, that has since commanded respectful attention
from all thoughtful passers-by, that preserved the now-fallen cliff for
several centuries and provided it with a most distinctive name, ¢sé’

1 Published by permission of the President of the National Geographic Society. The
author was leader of the Society’s Pueblo Bonito explorations, 1921-27.

501
502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

biya han’? @hi (Franciscan Fathers, 1912, vol. 1, p. 228), “the cliff
braced up from beneath” (translation by Mrs. John Wetherill).

The cliff-braced-up-from-beneath has been variously designated.
Holsinger (MS., p. 14) says it was locally known as “the Elephant” in
the days of the Hyde Exploring Expedition, 1896-1900. Nelson (zn
Pepper, 1920, p. 889) described it as “the shored-up Cliff Block.” To
Hewett it was “the balanced rock” in 1921; “the leaning cliff” a year
later (Hewett, 1921, p. 18; 1922, p. 116). It has been “Threatening
Rock” to personnel of the National Park Service and others since 1934.
This latter name was entirely appropriate as long as the threat
remained but one that will endure forever is the Navaho tsé’ biya hanv’
Whi. It isan individualistic, descriptive appellation that immediately
and positively identifies Pueblo Bonito. There is no other place in
all the Southwest to which this name applies.

Throughout the length and breadth of the Navaho Reservation in
Arizona and New Mexico every Navaho child knows of tsé’ beya han?’
@ht. Itis the kernel of many wintertime tales. In 1908 and 1909, on
the edge of Monument Valley, Utah, long before Chaco Canyon had
special significance for me, I heard of Pueblo Bonito as “the place
where the cliff is braced up from beneath.” Later I heard the name
from Hopi who spoke Navaho and from the Apache. No other pre-
historic ruin can boast an equally distinctive feature.

The now-fallen mass rose 100 feet above its terrace platform. Its
west end, on a magnetic-north line, stood 117 feet from the outer north-
west corner of Room 189, and its east end, half again as far from the
nearest point on the southward-curving exterior of the pueblo. Wind
and storm in pre-Bonito times had undercut the softer stratum of the
great cliff as much as 15 feet in places. It could topple forward upon
the terraced village at any time and without warning. Hence the very
understandable and continuing concern of the Bonitians. They fore-
saw and undoubtedly delayed a major rockfall that finally took place
years after they had abandoned the pueblo. It is possible, but quite
unlikely, that they knew of a still earlier fall and one of even greater
magnitude that happened long before they came to Chaco Canyon.

The original settlers of Pueblo Bonito, the “Old Bonitians,” had
built some of their dwellings between and upon jagged masses of rock
cast from the canyon wall long previously, but we may only guess as
to the time when the later immigrants, the “Late Bonitians,” first
recognized the Braced-up Cliff as a constant danger. So, too, we may
only guess the order of the several projects by which they sought to
control the threat—constructional projects of such magnitude that
any one of them might have defeated a less determined people. These
later immigrants propped the undercut cliff with pine posts and bedded
those posts in rubble; they weatherproofed the rubble with a facing of
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Judd PLATE 1

Pueblo Bonito and its Braced-up Cliff from the air. Photographed by Col. Charles A.
Lindbergh, 1929; reproduced by courtesy of Dr. A. V. Kidder and the Laboratory of
Anthropology, Santa Fe, N. Mex.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Judd PLATE 2

Ma ted

1. The Braced-up Cliff in relation to Pueblo Bonito, showing the lower terrace, the upper
stonework, and a pre-1877 rockfall. Photograph by Victor Mindeleff, 1887. Courtesy
of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

KO

. Standing free from the canyon wall, the Braced-up Cliff seemed actually to lean toward
Pueblo Bonito. Photograph by Charles Martin, 1920. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society.
PLATE. 3

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Judd

hotograph by

P

Part of the upper stonework with a post fragment in the foreground.

ite

rvan.

>
,

Reproduced through courtes\ om Dr Ort

1940.

Deric O’ Bryan,

Judd,

by Neil M. |

ph

Photogra

and the upper stonework.

masonry a

er terrace

The low

5

Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.

1922:
PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Judd

*AYOIDOG stydviso0oyy [PUOe NY
aya Jo Asolino7d “¢76] ‘sueArET “DO Aq ydeisojoyg ‘[[PM
998119] IOMO] 941 poyoddns JusWyURquIo pnu pooej-odojs V

styde1s0a5) jeuonen oY fo

1So1 O} JUIRD [[P]

IO LL81

*AYIIDOG

Asounoy “€761 “PPML “IN I!9N 44
ydeisojoyg "]]PM YoU YsrIy sojULg OF

‘

aid ay} WoOly

gend fo joo} @ UlYIIM

auo\spues FO syoo[g ‘Tf

5

PLATE

Judd

Smithsonian Report, 1958.

‘Aqaioo0g o1ydeiZ00yy JeuoNeN oy} Jo Asolinod “9Z6T ‘ppnf ‘WW [IPN “AZO[OUYIY UPILIIWY JO nvoing 9y3 Jo

Aq ydeisojoyg ‘uoAueDd ooryD Bulyoval-1vf 94} pue MOTIG UINI dy} Asayinody */QgqT ‘yoajapurpy Joi, Aq ydeisojoyg “qP] wooy uaedo
MAIA 0} YD dn-pasvig ayi pequirjs Ajpaieadai uswyIOM TuNZ INQ *7Z jo JUOJF Ul aBessnN] YUM ‘oWUOg O[qeng jo []wM YOU A1O\S-f IY J, “T

Smithsonian Report, 1958,—Judd PLATE 6

1. Pueblo Bonito after fall of the Braced-up Cliff, January 22, 1941, as seen from the north-
east. Courtesy of the National Park Service.

2. The damaged northeast section of the ruin. A conical mass of sandstone lies in Kiva G.

Courtesy of the National Park Service.
BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO—JUDD 503

masonry, slanted rearward to the overhang, and they built an enor-
mous terrace to support the masonry.

Tn 1920 when I first saw the Braced-up Cliff, portions of its buttress-
ing walls still stood two-thirds their original height, but time and the
elements had taken their toll (pl. 2, fig.2). Seekers after firewood had
cut off or pried out every post within reach; sheep and goats had
found shelter behind the standing masonry. ‘Two years later, 1922,
with our research program well under way, I cleared a portion of the
lower terrace wall in order to ascertain the character of its stonework.
That wall, which proved to be only a veneer, was composed of laminate
sandstone blocks separated at intervals by single courses of dressed
friable sandstone, the whole forming a variety of local masonry that I
have elsewhere described as Type 3 (pl. 3, fig. 2). It identifies con-
struction of the terrace with the heyday of Pueblo Bonito, during or
shortly following the first major rebuilding program of the Late
Bonitians. Behind the veneer, tons of sandstone fragments, laminate
and friable, lie bedded in tons of adobe mud.

More of this terrace facing was visible in 1887 when Victor Min-
deleff photographed it (pl. 2, fig. 1). From what now remains, I be-
lieve the platform to have been 18 or 20 feet high when intact and with
an average width of 25 feet. Its facing, anchored at the east on an out-
cropping of sandstone, extends thence almost due west 187 feet where
the end is lost under a pre-1877 rockfall. Throughout its visible length
the terrace front inclined cliffward perceptibly. Gathering the sand-
stone fragments and mixing mud for the rubblework behind were an
enormous task, and the need must have seemed very real and compel-
ling to those who ordered it.

In August of the following year, 1923, after we had discovered a
hard, fairly smooth adobe pavement 2 feet below the north foundation
of Room 184, we promptly undertook to follow that pavement toward
the terrace. To our surprise it continued to and under a sloping bank
of mud mortar piled steplike against the terrace masonry (pl. 4, fig. 2).
At the time it seemed so obvious that this masonry must extend down
to the pavement that I resisted the temptation to destroy part of the
bank in order to be positive. Below the pavement is a deposit of hard
clay, in part broken and granular; above it, 4 feet of windblown sand
containing clay pellets, silt streaks, and occasional potsherds. A1-
though no indication of weakness was apparent in the 5-foot-wide
section we laid bare, it may be that the terrace front had bulged some-
what from pressure of the rubble behind and that the adobe bank was
piled up against it in support.

A second surprise was the difference in the stonework here and that
in the section, only a few feet to the east, we had exposed the year
before. The earlier exhibit resembled our third-type masonry, but
*Ayain0g stydeisoay) Jeuoneny
ay} Jo Asaqyno0g = sves oy2 03 dn padessoy sasnoy yitMm sezejd om} oy} pesuls seATy JO slaquivyo [eluoWaI9D UvoUvIJO}qns OWUOg O[geng W—'] “OY

el sete JL ove [oer] or J
eT

eee 4 pe Ea Pes
rs E\esle (a \ eC ni wy
Feomeecery= eel
) AE
FR Olese
WANE]
= \- ez C) >
BP is ,
SEOs
aie?

‘a
o

€8)

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

504
BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO—JUDD 505

here it was nondescript, with more blocks of dressed friable sandstone
and fewer of laminate. Nevertheless the two varieties identify the
terrace front as entirely a work of the Late Bonitians.

During July and August 1933, Prof. John Y. Keur of the Depart-
ment of Biology, Long Island University, undertook a study of various
factors pertaining to the Braced-up Cliff and subsequently filed a
report with the National Park Service (Keur, MS., 1983). Through
the courtesy of Hurst R. Julian, at that time custodian of Chaco
Canyon National Monument, I received a copy of that report and, in-
asmuch as it supplements my own field notes in several important
respects, I shall refer to it for pertinent details not visible at the time
of our observations which entailed no excavations other than those
already mentioned. The Southwestern Monuments Monthly Report
from October 1933 to the final number, June 1941, contains additional
data from Professor Keur and Park Service personnel.”

Keur (MS., p. 4) dug pits at 50-foot intervals along the entire face
of the terrace wall and found “near the base . . . several piles of
mixed clay mortar.” From this I infer that the abutting adobe bank
exposed in 1923 by our 5-foot-wide trench, although perhaps in reduced
proportions and with occasional interruptions, continues the full length
of the terrace.

Keur’s trenches atop the platform revealed that the rubblework
behind the frontal veneer did not extend to the Braced-up Cliff, as I
had assumed, but ended at about half the distance. A trench at right
angles to the cliff and midway, where underlying walls are lacking,
shows (ibid., p. 5) the 32-foot-wide platform to consist of 16 feet of
rubble (the “stone pier” of the manuscript) at the front, a packed-
clay embankment near the base of the cliff, and a sand fill between
clay and rubble. At the surface the embarkment measured 6 feet wide
and the sand fill 10 feet, but at a depth of 7 feet the sand occupied only
a 8-foot space while the clay bank had widened to 18 feet. This adobe
embankment is doubtless the one indicated on our plan (fig. 2), only
two sections of which were visible at the time the field sketch was made.
Professor Keur regards the wedge-shaped sand fill between clay bank
and stone pier as a sort of cushion intended to absorb any pressure re-
sulting from the forward tilt of the Braced-up Cliff.

It will seem incredible to the reader, as it does to me, that the Late
Bonitians could have had such confidence in the cohesive properties of
Chaco Canyon mud as to believe a manmade bank of it could prevent
collapse of the great cliff towering 100 feet above. And yet I can
imagine no other motive that would have caused them to construct
with such prodigious labor a hand-packed mud embankment, 13 feet

2 An earlier but cursory study of the braced cliff was made in 1916 by N. C. Nelson,
of the American Museum of Natural History, and is briefed in Pepper (1920, pp. 389-390).
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

506

*Ajaio0g a1ydesZ0ay [eure Ny 9y3 Jo AsaqInos
"P61 ‘WOlg suLsy Aq YoIeys pjey [eursi10 ey} Wor “YD dn-posvig oy2 Jopun sjsod umouy pue Aruosem Bunsoddns jo uejd punoiy—7 ‘1g

tg o4 ot b

4234 U) B]BIS

yrou

| enemies re ae

BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO—JUDD 507

wide at the bottom and 6 feet wide on top, 7 feet high, and at least 80
feet long.

But the Bonitians were not content with this achievement. Before,
or perhaps after, completion of that embankment they undertook to
support the undercut cliff directly by adding wooden props, rubble-
work, and more adobe mud, concealing all behind a buttresslike con-
struction I shall describe as the “upper stonework,” in order to dis-
tinguish it from the terrace and the terrace wall.

This upper stonework likewise consisted of a masonry veneer screen-
ing the mud and broken rock massed behind. But here the purpose of
the hidden rubblework clearly was to replace the softer sandstone that
had weathered away and thereby created an irregular, cavelike recess
varying in depth from 0 to 15 feet. The rubblework behind the
veneer had filled every nook and hollow of the cave and crowded its
roof, as evidenced by mud mortar still adhering. Unlike that of the
lower terrace, however, the facing of this upper stonework is non-
descript and utterly without character; its finished appearance is
due solely to the fact that its component fragments were positioned
with their wider edges to the fore. Built as a wall perhaps 5 feet
thick at the base, standing fairly erect at the back but with a pro-
nounced cliffward batter in front, this facimg masonry reached to the
cleavage plane that marks the top of the underlying softer stratum
and there, reduced to a probable thickness of 2 feet, was fitted snugly
against the overhang. Minimizing labor, the builders erected their
buttressing stonework only where the undercutting was deepest, a
30-foot section at the east end of the cliff and one twice as long at the
west. The height approximated 15 feet (pl. 3, fig. 2).

Behind the sloping exterior of the upper stonework are a number of
casual partitions dividing the rubble fill and a dozen pine props, the
feature that gave the Braced-up Cliff its Navaho name. Spaced ir-
regularly, these props vary in diameter from 10 to 12 inches. We
counted nine, one of them at the extreme rear of the cavity, and the
empty holes of four more (fig. 2). All but the two most inaccessible
had been cut off as low as possible with steel axes or had been burned
long ago and subsequently weathered (pl. 3, fig. 1). Each post
slanted rearward to meet the roof of the cave; each had been tightly
packed about with rubblework. We sectioned Nos. 2 and 7 (JPB
156, 157) which later were dated by Dr. A. FE. Douglass at A.D. 1057
and 1004. Douglass (1935) and Smiley (1951) both list these two
specimens in their tables of tree-ring dates but do not specifically
identify them. For Gila Pueblo in 1940, Deric O’Bryan sampled
posts 2, 3, 4, 5(%), and 7 and obtained cutting dates of, respectively,
1058, 1072, 1064, 1061, and 1073 (personal communication). The 15-
year spread in these latter readings and a date 54 years earlier for
Douglass’ No. 7 suggests that each prop may have been the leftover
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

end of a timber originally felled and brought in as a ceiling beam.
All but No. 7 come within the known range of Late Bonitian construc-
tional activity.

Between and behind the posts, loosely built walls divide the cave
into haphazard compartments, each filled with sandstone-and-adobe
rubble. They are binlke structures, erected solely to confine the
rubble fill while it was being packed in, cave-roof high. Mud alone
lies under the rear middle of the rock and, again, under the east end.
None of the stonework resembles that of the Old Bonitians.

Blind old Hosteen Beyal (Judd, 1954, pp. 348-346), who came to
Chaco Canyon as a boy about 1840, surprised me with the accuracy
of his description of constructional details here. His only error,
as far as I know, was in remembering the posts as oak rather than pine.

There are those who hold that the veneered rubble under the
Braced-up Cliff was designed to shield the basal zone of soft sand-
stone from erosion and, to be sure, its presence undoubtedly did
accomplish that function. But this fortunate consequence was ac-
cidental rather than the result of deliberate planning. If protection
from wind and water had been their sole intention the Bonitians
assuredly would not have gone to the trouble of wedging in a dozen
10-inch posts, each slanted against anticipated pressure from over-
head. And they would have been content with a narrow protective
wall under the outer edge of the overhang instead of the sturdy,
slope-faced structure they actually erected. If erosion control were
the only desideratum there would have been no need for the casual,
rubble-filled bins behind the facing, or for the terrace and 80-foot
adobe bank below the level of the cave floor.

It was fear that drove the Late Bonitians to brace their cliff—a
persistent fear lest 30,000 tons of sandstone topple upon them. If
that same fear was shared in any degree by the actual founders of
Pueblo Bonito we discovered no evidence of it. There is nothing
behind the upper stonework or in the facing of the lower terrace
that even remotely resembles Old Bonitian masonry. Nevertheless
the danger Jatent in the overtowering cliff was there when the Old
Bonitians began their ancient settlement and if they failed then to
sense that danger it is probably because the great blocks of sand-
stone previously fallen from the cliff were already concealed under
a blanket of windblown sand.

A “boulder,” thus distinguishing it from normal building stones,
was utilized as it lay in the bench of an abandoned kiva 8 feet below the
floor level of Old Bonitian Room 83 (Pepper, 1920, p. 269). Describ-
ing the constructional confusion he found in the adjoining room, 85,
Pepper (ibid., p. 282) notes that “a large sandstone boulder” likewise
was incorporated in the wall of a west-end storage bin. Pepper cor-
rectly identified partially razed Old Bonitian walls beneath the floor
BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO—JUDD 509

of Room 87 but did not dig deep enough to learn that the foundations
of those old walls were built upon several large, irregular blocks of
friable sandstone that rest upon clean sand 9 feet 10 inches below the
Room 87 floor level.

The external north wall of this original Old Bonitian settlement,
and nearest the cliff, was banked high with blown sand when the
Late Bonitians arrived and erected a row of abutting dwellings. One
of these latter, Room 297, has its floor about 6 feet higher than that
of the adjoining Old Bonitian room, 298. An exploratory trench
lengthwise of Room 298 revealed large sandstone blocks in situ and
surrounded by clean sand from 1 to 2 feet beneath the floor. Both
the east and south foundations stand, in part, directly upon some of
these blocks, and the fact that their upper surfaces, in several ob-
served instances, slope down and toward the north clearly identifies
them with an early fall from the cliff. Part of that same fall under-
lies the northwest corner of Old Bonitian Room 296,

Kiva N is a second-type Late Bonitian ceremonial chamber built
against the south wall of Old Bonitian Room 83, previously men-
tioned. In 1923 the north arc of Kiva N stood 9 feet 3 inches high;
we estimated its original ceiling height at 9 feet 6. Four feet 7 inches
below its floor or 14 feet below the estimated ceiling height at ground
level, we came upon a massive section of friable sandstone, its upper
cleavage plane slanting downward and to the northeast, as with those
under Room 298.

There can be no doubt that these several occurrences of native sand-
stone deep under the floors of Old Bonitian houses represent collapse
of a portion of the canyon wall long before the village site was
permanently occupied. Spreading cliffward and fanwise from Kiva
N, these buried fragments apparently broke away from approxi-
mately the same section of cliff as did the next major fall, that which
Mindeleff photographed in 1887 and which shows so clearly on Lind-
bergh’s 1929 airview (pl. 1).

It was this latter fall, occurring perhaps in the last half of the
12th century after the Late Bonitians had left the valley, that crushed
the west end of the broad terrace they had built with such great
expectations and that hurled several massive chunks of sandstone
dangerously close to their high north wall (pl. 5). The accumula-
tion of broken masonry and windblown sand that had collected here
before the hurtled blocks came to rest seems so scant (pl. 4, fig. 1) as
to bring the incident almost within reach of recorded history in Chaco
Canyon. Simpson (1850) had nothing to say of these farflung pieces
when he entered Room 14b and carved his name on the wall plaster
August 28, 1849, but he must have seen them.

W. H. Jackson saw the great blocks in 1877, for he remarked that
the rockfall of which they are a part occupied almost all the space
510 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

between the cliff and the north wall of Pueblo Bonito (Jackson, 1878,
p. 442). They were still there, clean and sharp-edged, when Mindeleff
photographed them 10 years later (pl. 2, fig. 1; pl. 5, fig. 1). Com-
parison of Mindeleff’s 1887 views and that of Martin (pl. 2, fig. 2)
shows that many of the scattered fragments had disappeared before
1920. Because of their accessibility, it is reasonable to suppose that
these missing ones had been split and broken into smaller pieces and
used in the several buildings Richard Wetherill constructed locally
between 1897 and 1910.3

Our Bonitians feared the Braced-up Cliff. All the diverse features
they built beneath it—pine props, rubblework, buttressing masonry,
and banked adobe—were underpinnings designed to prevent the cliff
from toppling upon their village. Their fears were amply justified
as we now know from the destruction caused when the giant cliff
finally gave way in midafternoon of January 22, 1941. House-sized
fragments and countless tons of lesser pieces hurtled forward and laid
waste the spectacular northeast quarter of Pueblo Bonito, including
its outside wall from Room 189 south and east to Room 182 and in-
wardly to Rooms 99, 70, 266, 263, and 258. A 2-ton block of sandstone
half fills Kiva G (pl. 6). Fortunately, the three- and four-story
north wall of Rooms 14b, 299, and 297 appears to have escaped with
only minor damage.

The Braced-up Cliff has fallen, but our data show that two other
major, if less destructive, falls occurred previously and that both came
from the section of canyon wall next on the west. This section, which
still stands and still offers a daily threat to the empty ruin, apparently
gave the Bonitians little if any concern. They did nothing to support
it but, on the other hand, built several houses and a kiva at its very
base. Herein lies a new and unsuspected danger to Pueblo Bonito.

REFERENCES
Dovetass, A. BF.
1935. Dating Pueblo Bonito and other ruins of the Southwest. Nat. Geogr.
Soe., Contr. Techn. Pap., Pueblo Bonito Ser., No. 1.
HEWETT, Epaar L.
1921. The Chaco Canyon and its ancient monuments. Art and Archaeol.,
vol. 11, Nos. 1-2.
1922. The Chaco Canyon in 1921. Art and Archaeol., vol. 14, No. 3.
HOLsINGER, S. J.

Report on the prehistoric ruins of Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. Or-
dered by General Land Office Letter “P”, December 18, 1900. (MS.
dated Phoenix, Ariz., Dec. 5, 1901, in General Land Office, Wash-
ington, D.C.)

2? The one fall for which we have a date is that reported by Frank McNitt (1957, p. 111).
In the autumn of 1895 while Richard Wetherill and the S. L. Palmer family were camped
at the base of the cliff immediately north of Pueblo Bonito a mass of sandstone dropped
from above and narrowly missed members of the party. Throughout the years there may
have been other, equally close escapes.
BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITA—JUDD 511

JACKSON, W. H.
1878. Report on the ancient ruins examined in 1875 and 1877. 10th Ann.
Rep. U.S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. Terr. . .. for the year 1876, pp.
411-450.
Jupp, NEIL M.
1954. The material culture of Pueblo Bonito. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
124.
Keur, JOHN Y.
A study of primitive Indian engineering methods pertaining to
Threatening Rock. (MS. dated September 1933 in the National
Park Service, Washington, D.C.)
MecNIr1t, FRANK.
1957. Richard Wetherill: Anasazi.
NELSON, N. C.
1920. Notes on Pueblo Bonito. In Pueblo Bonito, by George H. Pepper, An-
throp. Pap. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 27, pp. 381-390.
PEPPER, GEORGE H.
1920. Pueblo Bonito. Anthrop. Pap. Amer. Mus, Nat. Hist., vol. 27.
SIMPSON, JAMES H.
1850. Journal of a military reconnaissance from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to
the Navaho country... in 1849. Rep. Secretary of War, 31st Cong.,
1st Sess., Senate Ex. Doc. No. 64, pp. 56-139.

Smitey, TERAH L.
1951. A summary of tree-ring dates from some Southwestern archeological
sites. Univ. Arizona Bull., vol. 22, No. 4. Lab. of Tree-ring Res.,
Bull. 5.

Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.

492520—59——_34
ay _
Vien aie ba
wage e meta mie fe

; ii. w hi eee ihe \ a ;

nent ay . , Ge fe
LL Pe Pe Ta Pha io AP A yitaeas iastghhuaeleie aut?
Ca Wah Oa, ay a] ORY, ADCO! i nia Ni ate me tuo

Te F fe

(ee dhol oe A ce Oa ue atin ‘ sloonkt i ei DY nt rene PNT) mn?
; ; : : am en Abi

WS Mee tapbaday acta ty GOUT) ILLES aE Ea? ee aghatt Pa ‘
ivy wet ie Bee ry 1iiiert BoM ae | Saat ani Aiea
UY OUR TA eee ee

LAW a af

oe Ce a ip ith Nf inl

Ley il i hm <1) Te La Oe a yh A Let PUA TOG) ee

i. i, A iD Ai e Fi f ue? ig yet ryt

' a sso ;

es) Bh ed oy Mie tut Poet hy uaellitn, OLIGO, ike My Bs)

. lf nO ae

i} pry A : Phil ( ' i a Peeyii eee | fou etit 3 }

' ; mL {4 i ‘ 3h it CVAD GO Pik ts tha
fe alte ef UNV A Bu

hi na 6

LE Nyy ‘ { } ilesirga 4 iy ae : Tot

“i
i ee
‘vv

ik
fad
u rit y

ea ay ‘i A hits Sa sit Hae ey a
bn Xi it) AS By ie fs Ley ides Aa

oy

bata y a (Osh ii eae or

{ OP 7 a ie

Pie
i i - it
* wt | : iN a i
1 : on pare 7 J 7 ahinhth a
A Century of American Indian Exhibits in
the Smithsonian Institution

By Joun C. Ewers

Assistant Director
Museum of History and Technology
Smithsonian Institution

{With 8 plates]

THE OPENING of a modernized hall of North American Indians on
December 8, 1957, had a special significance in the history of the
Smithsonian Institution. It marked the end of the first century of
the Smithsonian’s experience in interpreting the historic American
Indian tribes to the public through museum exhibits. During this
century these exhibits evolved from a small cabinet of curiosities
viewed by a few thousand persons to an interpretation of the ways
of life of the Indians of the hemisphere seen by millions of museum
visitors. Changing methods of presenting the subject over the years
reflected the immense growth of the collections, the special skills and
interests of staff members, and the increase of historical and scientific
knowledge of the Indians. Furthermore, the experience gained in
planning Indian exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution and for the
Smithsonian at great international expositions contributed signifi-
cantly to the development of ethnology as a science.

INDIAN CURIOSITIES IN THE SMITHSONIAN BUILDING

In the year 1857 the National Cabinet of Curiosities, which for 16
years had been housed in the Patent Office, was transferred to the
Smithsonian Institution. In his first report of progress made in in-
stalling these national collections in the then new Smithsonian Build-
ing, Secretary Joseph Henry wrote: “This has already been done by
Mr. Varden for the ethnological collections at the west end of the
hall.” (Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1858, p. 56.) It is certain,
therefore, that American Indian materials were included among the
Smithsonian’s first museum exhibits.

Sixty-six-year-old John Varden (pl. 1, fig. 1), who installed these
exhibits, was not an ethnologist. At that time there was no trained
ethnologist in this country. But Varden was no novice at displaying

513
514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Indian artifacts to the public. In 1836 he had opened his Washing-
ton Museum, the first museum in the Nation’s Capital, as “a rational
place of amusement.” Five years later he turned over his collection
to the National Institute, and he served as curator of the enlarged
national collections while they were displayed in the Patent Office.
He was the logical person to plan and install the collections in the
Smithsonian. No other man in Washington could have matched his
long experience in museum work.

The original accession book of Varden’s Washington Museum, pre-
served in the Smithsonian Archives, reveals that, like other museum
proprietors of his time, Varden had been an omnivorous collector of
rare and curious objects in the fields of natural history, history, and
art. Among his many and varied specimens he listed some 31 Amer-
ican Indian artifacts. They composed the nucleus of the National
Institute’s Indian collection which came to the Smithsonian in 1857.

Although Varden made two collecting trips westward as far as
New Orleans and St. Louis in the 1830’s, he obtained his Indian mate-
rials from local collectors and travelers rather than from the Indians
directly. His knowledge of the specimens was limited to the informa-
tion these men gave him. A few of the artifacts were tribally iden-
tified, such as a “War Club of the Crank-a-war (Karankawa) Indians
of Texas,” and “Three Bowles made by the Indians of the Six Na-
tions in Alabama” (Choctaw). But a larger number were of a more
nebulous origin, such as: “A Pair of Indian Moccasins,” “Indian
Knife Scabbard from Canady,” and “2 Pipe Stems from the Old
Stock of General Clark of St. Louis, from the Rockey Mountains.” ?

A description of the exhibits in the Smithsonian Institution, appear-
ing in the 1859 guidebook, indicates that the American Indian ex-
hibits then occupied one case and portions of two others located on
the upper galleries at the west end of the great hall. (PI. 1, fig. 2.)

One case must have been quite completely filled with a North Ameri-
can Indian miscellany “including Head Dresses ... Canoes...
Feather Blankets ... Water-Baskets ... Indian Pillow, stuffed
with Buffalo hair... Bows and Arrows... Pipes, etc. etc.”
(Rhees, 1859, p. 69). This group of specimens undoubtedly included a
number of artifacts made by the Indians of California and the north-
west coast collected by the United States Exploring Expedition under
the command of Lt. Charles Wilkes, USN, during its long sea voyage
in 1838-42. Titian Peale’s catalog of the ethnological collections made
by that expedition, preserved in the division of ethnology of the U.S.
National Museum, indicates that many of the Indian specimens were

1These pieces are of particular historical interest. William Clark, who will always
be remembered as the courageous coleader of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, had founded
the first museum west of the Mississippi River in a building attached to his residence in
St. Louls in 1818. Clark died in 1888, and the fate of his excellent Indian collection has
been a matter of speculation.
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS—EWERS 515

no more precisely identified than were Varden’s. They comprised such
items as a “Blanket made of feathers by the natives of California” and
“Wooden masks carved by the natives of the north west coast of
America.”

Some other Indian specimens in the Smithsonian collections at that
time had been collected by Army exploring expeditions in the trans-
Mississippi west. The so-called “Indian Pillow, stuffed with Buffalo
hair” was almost certainly a Blackfoot pad saddle obtained by Capt.
Howard Stansbury on his overland explorations to the Great Salt
Lake in 1851.?

A second case contained a number of Indian artifacts as well as bats,
minerals, woods, and other natural history specimens collected by
Navy Lt. W. E. Herndon during his explorations of the Amazon River
and its tributaries in 1851-52. A group of South American Indian
specimens, including some weapons from the Indians of Tierra del
Fuego collected by the Wilkes Expedition, shared a third case with
weapons and other ethnological materials from southeast Asia.

Although the guidebook introduced the ethnological collections as
“one of the most extensive and curious in the world,” the American
Indian portion of those collections was actually quite small. The
tribal origins as well as the true functions of many of the specimens
were unknown. As curiosities these objects comprised a limited sam-
pling of handicrafts made and used by American Indians.

ENLARGING THE COLLECTIONS

Secretary Henry realized the inadequacy of the American Indian
collections and took vigorous steps to add to their numbers both more
and better-documented pieces. Through personal contacts he encour-
aged men who resided in or near the Indian country or who planned
to travel among the Indians to collect for the Smithsonian. One of
those men was James Swan, secretary to the first congressional delegate
from Washington Territory, who became a pioneer student of the
Makah and Haida Indians and an industrious collector of northwest
coast Indian materials. Another was young Robert Kennicott of
Chicago, who explored the Canadian Northwest and enlisted the aid
of Hudson’s Bay Co. traders in collecting both vocabularies and arti-
facts among the then little-known northern Athapascan tribes.

In 1863 Joseph Henry had printed /nstructions for Research rela-
tive to the LH thnology and Philology of America (prepared by George
Gibbs), earnestly soliciting the collaboration of “all officers of the
United States government, and travellers, or residents who may have
in their power to render any assistance.” These instructions, written
for the Smithsonian by George Gibbs, an experienced field collector

2This specimen is referred to as an “Indian Pillow’ in the old accession records.
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

among the Indians of the Northwest, stressed both the urgency of
collecting Indian materials and the need for accurate identifications
of the artifacts obtained. Gibbs wrote:

. .. It is especially important to make immediate collections, as many articles
are of perishable nature, and the tribes themselves are passing away or ex-
changing their Own manufactures for those of the white race. It is hardly
necessary to specify any of particular interest, as almost every thing has its
value in giving completeness to a collection ...In making these collections,
care should be taken to specify the tribes from which they are obtained, and
where any doubt may exist, the particuiar use to which each is applied. (Gibbs,
1863, p. 4.)

Cooperation was enthusiastically offered by men in the Army and
Navy, Indian agents and agency doctors, consular employees in Latin
America, and by missionaries and other individuals. Especially im-
portant were the contributions of field officers of the Army Medical
Corps, men of scientific training and interests, who, while stationed at
isolated frontier forts in the West, devoted their spare time to collect-
ing artifacts from Indians whose confidence they enjoyed. A decade
before the battle of the Little Big Horn these men were collecting
among the warlike Sioux, Cheyenne, Kiowa, and Comanche of the
Great Plains. Before the Apache Wars in the Southwest they were
collecting Apache weapons, costumes, and handicrafts. In 1869 the
Army Medical Museum began to transfer these Indian materials,
obtained by Army doctors at many field: posts, to the Smithsonian.

The approach of the great Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia,
which was planned for 1876, offered still another major opportunity
for the Smithsonian to enlarge its North American Indian collections.
The Indian Bureau of the Department of the Interior and the Smith-
sonian Institution received an appropriation to develop a joint display
of the ethnology and archeology of the United States at that expo-
sition. Since the specimens were to be transferred to the Smithsonian
after the exposition’s close, field collecting for this display was con-
fined primarily to “those parts of the United States which were not
already properly represented” in the museum. (Ann. Rep. Smith-
sonian Inst., 1875, p. 60.)

The Smithsonian still had no ethnologist on its staff, but a number
of experienced and able men were active collectors of Indian materials
for this popular exposition. Swan collected on the Northwest coast,
Stephen Powers among the Indians of California, Maj. John W.
Powell in the Great Basin, and Governor Arny in the Southwest.
Prof. Otis T. Mason of Columbian (now George Washington) Uni-
versity was engaged to prepare a pamphlet listing over 600 classes
of artifacts desired for the exhibition. Copies of this pamphlet were
sent by the Indian Bureau to all its field agents and by the Smith-
sonian Institution to its correspondents. ‘The response was hearten-
ing. Among the many small but important collections received was
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS—EWERS 517

one of Nez Percé artifacts collected by Indian Agent John B. Monteith
more than a year before Chief Joseph’s masterful retreat made the
name and the courage of that tribe known throughout the civilized
world.

Some of the most popular exhibits at the Centennial Exposition
were the tall Haida totem poles, collected by James Swan, and a
buffalo hide tipi, the home of an Arapaho Indian family, obtained in
the field by Vincent Colyer, talented artist and secretary of the Board
of Indian Commissioners. (PI. 2, fig. 2.)

By the time the exhibit materials from the Philadelphia exposition
reached Washington the Smithsonian certainly did possess one of
the most extensive North American Indian collections in the world.
Its Northwest coast and Plains Indian materials were outstanding,
although some of the tribes of those regions still were very poorly
represented. The collections were weak in artifacts from the historic
tribes east of the Mississippi, from the Indians of the Southwest, from
the Eskimos and the majority of the Canadian Indian tribes, and
from the very great majority of the Indian tribes living south of the
United States.

TECHNOLOGICAL EXHIBITS IN THE ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING

By 1877 the very wealth of potential exhibit materials possessed
by the Smithsonian Institution had become a handicap to effective
exhibition. Collections in the natural sciences, in archeology, and
in the ethnology of Old World peoples had also grown rapidly. It
was impossible to interpret these subjects in addition to history and
art within the limited confines of the Smithsonian Building. A new
and larger museum was needed, and until that structure (the Arts and
Industries Building, which stands east of the Smithsonian Building)
was available, little improvement of exhibits was possible.

Meanwhile, the Smithsonian appointed its first specialists in an-
thropology to supervise the work of accessioning and cataloging the
large and growing collections and to begin the systematic classification
of the materials on hand. In 1876 Dr. Charles Rau, of New York,
was appointed to classify and arrange the anthropological collections
in the museum, and Frank H. Cushing became his assistant in
ethnology.

In 1879 the Bureau of (American) Ethnology was established and
its vigorous head, Maj. John Wesley Powell, declared its mission “to
organize anthropologic research in America.” He inaugurated an ex-
tensive program of fieldwork in the Southwest which led to the en-
richment of the museum’s previously limited Pueblo Indian collec-
tions. Cushing and Col. James Stevenson assumed very active roles
in this Southwestern research. Meanwhile, Powell and his staff were
engaged in a series of classic projects which did not involve the study
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

of museum specimens but which were of basic importance to the
scientific progress of American Indian studies—the classification of
North American Indian languages, the identification of Indian tribes
and villages, the history of Indian land cessions, and the estimate
of early Indian population.

These classification studies were paralleled in the museum ie
equally intense efforts to describe and classify American Indian arti-
facts on the basis of their methods of manufacture, form, and func-
tion. The emphasis given to comparative technology by both arche-
ologists and ethnologists during this period reflected their efforts to
establish anthropology on a sound scientific basis by applying the
taxonomic principles of the natural sciences. It also reflected the
biologist’s interests in evolution by extending that principle to a search
for the origin and early development of man’s inventions.

During the 1880’s anthropologists in the museum experimented
with primitive tools to determine how Indians worked stone, bone,
shell, and copper. They analyzed the techniques Indians employed
in dressing skin, weaving baskets, and making pottery, as well as in
making fire. They classified American Indian bows and arrows,
harpoons, throwing sticks, knives, pipes, cradles, fire-making ap-
paratus, and other artifacts in the collections. The major publica-
tions of the museum anthropologists during the 1880’s and 1890’s were
concerned with problems of comparative technology.

This technological approach, which absorbed the interests of
ethnologists in the museum laboratories, was adopted by them in
planning and arranging the American Indian exhibits for the public.
Two principal types of exhibits predominated. One of them illus-
trated the great variety of forms of a single class of objects that ex-
isted among the Indians—whether the subject was bows and arrows,
harpoons, throwing sticks, pottery, textiles, sculpture, pipes, or neck-
laces. Dense concentrations of objects of each class proved an orderly
method of displaying the greater part of the museum’s vast Indian
collections. The visitor could not but be impressed with the wealth
of the museum in American Indian materials. If he tarried to view
the exhibits in some detail, he learned that the Indians were clever
workers in a variety of primitive industries and the tribal distribu-
tion of these traits. In this technological arrangement the handi-
crafts of each tribe were widely scattered. It was impossible to de-
termine from these exhibits how any Indian tribe lived. (PI. 3, fig. 1.)

The second type of exhibit purported to show the evolution of com-
mon tools, such as those used for cutting, sawing, drilling, etc. These
exhibits portrayed assumed technological advances, from the simple
to the complex, without regard for the history of the actual objects
selected. (PI. 3, fig. 2.)
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE

2. The first American Indian exhibits occupied cases on the upper galleries.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 2

ma eee
Se

Py
fy -*

2. An Arapaho tipi and Haida totem poles were feature exhibits.

American Indian exhibits at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, 1876.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PEATE 3

2. Exhibit suggesting the evolution of tools.

Exhibits in the Arts and Industries Building.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 4

s

1. Small groups at the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago, 1893.

2. Small groups in the Arts and Industries Building in the 1890’s.

Early life-sized groups.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 5

1. William H. Holmes’s design for the group, c. 1900.

POLAR ESKIMO

RNMOST PEOPLE OF THE WORLD

2. The group as it appears today.

The Polar Eskimo group.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 6

1. Hopi kachina dolls.

"Wasauesroneasneeye
sannartt on05 089 *

2. Plains Indian specimens.

Early exhibits in the Natural History Building.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 7

KACHINA OOLLS HELP HOP! CHILDREN ick

TO LEARN TO RECOGNIZE THE TRIBAL GODS

2. The Buffalo—staff of life of the Plains Indians.
Modernized exhibits in the Natural History Building.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Ewers PLATE 8

Saeki:

1. Arapaho life-sized group.

2. Diorama portraying Lucayan Indians ‘‘discovering” Columbus.

New groups in the Natural History Building.
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS—EWERS 519

Methodical arrangement of the ethnological exhibits along these
lines was begun by Otis T. Mason shortly after he became curator of
ethnology in 1884. Mason was one of the most able students of
American Indian technology. His writings are classics in the field.
With Mason in charge, the Smithsonian announced its plan “to con-
tinue this system in the remaining portions of the collections, with the
view of better unfolding through the arts of savagery the origin and
development of civilization.” (Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1885,
p. 32.)

DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIFE-SIZED GROUP

As early as 1870 the Smithsonian Institution had employed life-
sized wax figures to display the costumes worn by the Arctic explorer
Dr. E. K. Kane and members of his party. A number of costumed
figures were shown in the Indian exhibits at the Centennial Exposi-
tion in 1876. (PI.2.) Thereafter, individual life-sized figures were
installed in the museum to display costumes, to show the characteris-
tics of the different races, and to illustrate the methods of use of
weapons and instruments and the process of various arts and handi-
crafts.

In the early nineties, under the direction of William H. Holmes,
who combined to a remarkable degree the talents of an artist with
a knowledge of the American Indians, the Smithsonian Institution
began to experiment with a new type of exhibit, a grouping of
two or more costumed figures to provide a lifelike portrayal of
some of the typical activities of a particular Indian tribe. The first
series of these exhibits was prepared under the direction of Holmes
for exhibition at the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago in
1893. Holmes himself designed a group of Powhatan Indians
quarrying material for the manufacture of stone implements. The
figures were modeled, then cast in plaster by the Washington sculptor
U.S. J. Dunbar, and wigs were added. Additional groups were made
to portray typical activities of the Zufii, Navaho, Kiowa, Sioux, Hupa,
and Kutchin Indians for exhibition at the 1893 fair. Although
these groups were placed in small, poorly lighted cases, they proved
to be very popular exhibits. The viewer gained the impression
that he was actually watching Indians at work or play. These
groups were placed on exhibition in the Smithsonian after the close
of the Chicago Fair. (PI. 4.)

By 1901, when the Smithsonian Institution exhibited at the Pan-
American Exposition in Buffalo, Holmes had further perfected the
life-sized group. In addition to several smaller ones, he presented
two groups housed in roomy 12-by-8-foot cases. These he termed
“family groups” composed of men, women, and children with their
appropriate clothing and accessories engaged in typical group activi-
520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

ties. One group portrayed a Tehuelche Indian family of Patagonia
packing its belongings on horseback in preparation for moving
camp. The most appealing of these new groups showed a family of
Polar Eskimos of Smith Sound, Greenland. In the foreground a
young man bent over a very small seal he had clubbed at a hole in
the ice. Beyond him stood the members of his family with their
dog team and sled. The father was pointing to the small seal and
laughing heartily because the boy had called for the dog team to
bring home such a little animal. Not only did this exhibit illustrate
the details of Eskimo material culture, but the episode selected
portrayed clearly the good humor of these hardy people who had
found solutions to the many problems of living on the northernmost
frontier of human habitation. After more than 50 years’ “run”
at the Smithsonian Institution this dramatic display is still a favorite
of museum visitors. It is undoubtedly one of the great masterpieces
of museum exhibition. (PI. 5.)

THE CULTURE AREA CONCEPT

The opportunities to interpret the American Indian to large
crowds of busy sightseers at the World’s Fairs offered a stimulating
challenge to the Smithsonian staff. They were not content merely
to duplicate existing exhibits for display at these great expositions.
Rather they sought new approaches to the presentation of the
subject which would result not only in the development of attractive,
eye-catching exhibit units such as the life-sized groups, but would
make the entire subject more meaningful to the public.

When Otis T. Mason was called upon to plan the American Indian
exhibition for the World’s Columbian Exposition to be held in
Chicago in 1893, he decided to organize the exhibit around the
linguistic map of North America which had recently been published
by the Bureau of American Ethnology. The compilation of that
map had occupied scholars of the Bureau and a host of collaborators
for 12 years. Its completion was an important landmark in the
history of American Indian studies. Never before had an effort
been made to organize an exhibit that would combine tribes, lan-
guages, and artifacts in one presentation.

For several months Mason struggled with the difficulties presented by
this challenge. Some of the linguistic stocks of North America could
not be interpreted through objects because there were no artifacts
made by the speakers of those languages in the Museum’s collections.
Either the tribes had become nearly extinct or their ways of life
had become so modified through white contact that it would be
impossible to obtain a group of objects that would portray their
traditional customs. Some of the most prominent linguistic stocks
were represented by tribes spread out over vast areas in quite different
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS—EWERS 521

geographical environments so that the contrasts in material traits
among tribes of the same language stock were greater than those
between neighboring tribes speaking quite different languages.
Thus the Shoshonean-speaking Hopi resembled the other Pueblo
tribes of the southwestern desert who spoke different languages.
much more closely in their way of life than they did the Shoshonean-
speaking Comanche buffalo hunters of the Great Plains.

Mason compared the distribution of traits of Indian material
culture with Dr. C. Hart Merriam’s biogeographic map of North
America published by the Department of Agriculture and found
that the distribution of artifacts corresponded much more closely
with it than with Powell’s linguistic map. He concluded that “the
materialistic activities were controlled by the environment.”

So in the exhibit at Chicago Otis T. Mason organized the exhibits
around this new principle—the influence of environment upon
American Indian life, grouping the exhibits by what he termed
“culture areas.” In briefly describing this display in the Annual
Report of the U.S. National Museum for 1893 Mason wrote:

Enough was displayed ... to bring into prominence the statement that the
earth, with its climate and natural resources, has much to say about the
material and the form of human industries. Blood and language and social
life and religion have their say also in the arts of life, but their influence is
superadded, and not fundamental. (Ann. Rep. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1893, pp. 127-129.)

In a popular lecture at the Smithsonian on May 2, 1896, entitled
“Influence of Environment upon Human Industries or Arts,” Otis
T. Mason grouped the historic American Indians and Eskimos into
18 culture areas on the basis of common environments providing
common plant and animal resources for the use of Indians for food,
clothing, shelter, arts and crafts, implements and utensils, and means
of travel. He proceeded to outline the basic natural resources and
typical artifacts made and used by the Indians of each of these
culture areas. (Mason, 1896.)

By 1897 Mason was busy rearranging a portion of the American
Indian exhibits in the Arts and Industries Building in accordance with
his new principle of “culture areas.” In 1901 Mason’s colleague at the
Smithsonian, William H. Holmes, in a closely reasoned paper on
“Classification and Arrangement of the Exhibits of an Anthropologi-
cal Museum,” published a map of North American Indian culture
areas and advocated a culture-area organization for the arrangement
of exhibits in museums of anthropology. (Holmes, 1903, p. 267.)

Today the concept of “culture areas” is generally accepted by
ethnologists as a basis for classifying the ways of life of primitive
peoples. Yet very few anthropologists are aware that this important
classificatory tool of their profession was discovered by Otis T. Mason
during his experience in planning the Smithsonian’s exhibits for the
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

World’s Columbian Exposition. By many it has been credited to
Clark Wissler of the American Museum of Natural History, who
elaborated and refined the principle in his widely read work “The
American Indian,” first published in 19172

However, both Mason and Holmes were greatly interested in the
study of technology. Neither of them was willing to abandon the
earlier type of exhibit of comparative technology. Holmes proposed
the culture area as “the first and most important method” of exhibit
organization, but he suggested that it be supplemented by synoptic
exhibits illustrating the evolution of tools, textile arts, etc. New com-
parative technological exhibits also were developed. In 1904 several
cases of Indian baskets were added to the exhibits following the
publication of Mason’s classic treatise on North American Indian
basketry.

By that time the museum had again outgrown its quarters. So
crowded were the exhibit halls in the Arts and Industries building
that there were scarcely passegeways for visitors between the cases.
Much of the effectiveness of the life-sized groups was lost in the
overcrowded halls. Large portions of the study collections had to be
stored in other buildings. A new building was sorely needed to house
the Smithsonian’s exhibits and study collections in natural history and
anthropology.

With the completion of the new Natural History Building on the
north side of the Mall, the department of anthropology was moved to
new and more spacious quarters. By the summer of 1911 most of the
ethnological exhibits had been installed. The American Indian
materials were arranged in two adjoining halls on the first floor pro-
viding nearly 15,000 square feet of display space. In accordance with
Holmes’s recommendations of a decade earlier, the life-sized groups
were placed in line down the centers of the hails allowing room for
visitors to view them through all four of their glassed sides. In rows
and alcoves of cases fianking the life-sized groups were placed objects
from the culture areas typified by the life-sized groups. Intermixed
with these culture-area exhibits were series of cases illustrating com-
parative technology.

RECENT MODERNIZATION OF EXHIBITS

For nearly 40 years after the American Indian exhibits were in-
stalled in the Natural History Building no major changes were made
in these displays. Meanwhile the attendance at the museum tripled
and the number of school groups who came to the museum to see how
Indians lived greatly increased. The life-sized groups retained their

8 Wissler reduced Mason’s 18 American Indian culture areas to 15 and renamed most
of them. However, in his earliest published classification of North American Indian
culture areas, he acknowledged his debt to Mason. (Wissler, 1914, p. 449.)
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS—EWERS 523

interest for children and adults—but few people ventured into the
crowded alcoves to view the thousands of artifacts displayed in cases
inadequately illuminated by natural light. Hundreds of near dupli-
cate specimens—964 examples of Pueblo pottery, more than 200 Pomo
baskets, 119 Hopi kachina dolls—ranged on shelves or hung in layers
within the cases, presenting the monotonous appearance of visual
storage rather than the lively attractiveness of educational exhibits.
(PIZ6:)

Meanwhile, also, great strides had been made in the use of artificial
lighting, color, and design in store window and commercial displays—
techniques that could be readily adapted to museum exhibition. At
the same time research on American Indian cultures had shed new light
upon the history and functions of artifacts.

Gradually the dissatisfaction with existing exhibits grew among
visitors and staff members alike. It became increasingly apparent
that the old exhibits could not be brought up to date simply by making
minor changes here and there. It was not a problem of polishing and
repairing the old Rolls Royce. The entire exhibition needed stream-
lining.

Planning of a complete revision of the American Indian halls was
begun in the 1940’s. After World War IT, A. Joseph Andrews and
John E. Anglim prepared two miniature dioramas in the anthro-
pological laboratory under the writer’s scientific supervision. At a
scale of 114 inches to a foot these exhibits portrayed typical camps of
the Yahgan Indians of Tierra del Fuego and of the Yosemite Indians
of California, showing the homes and activities of these people in
their appropriate natural settings. These dioramas were temporarily
installed, one at each end of Hall 11 in association with revised exhibits
of artifacts from their respective cultures. Light boxes were added
to the old wall cases and a few carefully selected specimens were in-
stalled against backgrounds of contrasting colors. A marked improve-
ment was apparent in these sections of the hall.

In 1954 funds were made available to completely modernize the
entire hall, employing new cases and artificial lighting throughout.
There was never any question of the basic organization of exhibits.
Mason’s fundamental concept of culture areas had gained general
acceptance. Even writers of children’s books had adopted it in their
descriptions of American Indian cultures, devoting separate chapters
to the Indians of the Woodlands, of the Plains, of the Northwest coast,
and others. In our new exhibits children would see the typical arti-
facts they had read about and in the same cultural contexts. in the
two halls available plans were made to interpret the historic cultures
of the native peoples of the Americas, beginning with the Eskimos of
the far north and continuing geographically southward to the Fuegians
at the southernmost extremity of South America. The halls were
524. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

subdivided into alcoves, each devoted to a culture, and the exhibits
were planned to illustrate the ingenuity of the people in using the
natural resources of their environment for food, clothing, shelter,
weapons, household utensils, religious paraphernalia, and the produc-
tion of artsand crafts. (P1.7.)

The majority of the life-sized groups were completely refurbished
and reinstalled in larger cases against monochrome backgrounds and
were dramatically lighted. A new life-sized group was developed
around a full-scale Arapaho tipi. Six dioramas portrayed in mini-
ature interesting aspects of Indian life. Of these the scene showing
Lucayan Indians of the Bahamas at the moment of their discovery of
Columbus’s ships approaching their island village has become a
favorite exhibit of many children. Like the Polar Eskimo group it
combines ethnological detail with dramatic incident. (PI. 8.)

Within each culture area wall-case exhibits interpreted Indian
uses of natural resources. These exhibits employed artifacts to
illustrate ideas and the objects were supplemented by such graphic
devices as were needed to show their functions. Under the direc-
tion of John E. Anglim and Rolland O. Hower, talented artists com-
bined light, color, and design to create exhibits which would be as
attractive as they were meaningful.

OUR SMITHSONIAN HERITAGE

It may seem a far cry from the small display of Indian curiosities
exhibited in the Smithsonian Building a century ago to the Smithso-
nian’s many educational exhibits of today. However, these contrasts
are no more remarkable than has been the continuity of the Smith-
sonian’s American Indian program over this hundred-year period.
In reality today’s displays have been more than a century in the mak-
ing. They could not have been developed without the aid of the
many farsighted men of the past who collected, recorded, and pre-
served the basic ingredients of these exhibits—the artifacts themselves.

In the American Indian halls are still displayed specimens col-
lected by John Varden and by the Wilkes Expedition which were
shown in the Smithsonian’s first exhibits. Here, also, are artifacts
sent to the Smithsonian by collaborators in response to Secretary
Henry’s call for assistance in the 1860’s, objects collected by Army
physicians stationed at lonely frontier posts before and during the
Plains Indian wars, grotesque masks and a totem pole obtained by
James Swan for the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the Arapaho
tipi collected by Vincent Colyer for that exhibition more than 80
years ago. After more than 50 years William H. Holmes’s life-sized
groups continue to delight and instruct visitors to the Smithsonian
Institution. And it is especially noteworthy that the culture-area
concept, conceived by Otis T. Mason while planning Smithsonian ex-
AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS-—EWERS 525

hibits for the World’s Columbian Exposition of 1893, still provides
the best guide to arranging exhibits on the American Indians that has
ever been devised.

Our heritage is rich indeed.

REFERENCES

AccEssion Boox, John Varden’s Washington Museum. (Original in Smithso-
nian Archives. )
ANNUAL Reports of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 1858—
1957.
ANNUAL Report of the United States National Museum for 1893. 1895.
EWERS, JOHN O.
1955. Problems and procedures in modernizing ethnological exhibits. Amer.
Anthrop., n.s., vol 57, No. 1.
GIBBS, GEORGE.
1863. Instructions for research relative to the ethnology and philology of
America. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 7, art. 11.
HOLMES, WILLIAM H.
1903. Classification and arrangement of the exhibits of an anthropological
museum. Ann. Rep. U.S. Nat. Mus. for 1901.
Mason, OTs T.
1896. Influence of environment upon human industries or arts. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst. for 1895.
PRAT, 0. Re.
Collections of the United States South Seas Surveying and Exploring
Expedition, 1838-42. (MS. in Div. Ethnology, U.S. Nationai
Museum.)
RHEES, WILLIAM J.
1859. An account of the Smithsonian Institution, its founder, building,
operations, ete. Spec. Publ., Smithsonian Inst.
WISSLER, CLARK.
1914. Material cultures of the North American Indians. Amer. Anthrop.,
n.s., vol. 16.
1917. The American Indian. i1sted. New York.
; : mat
Wy abe cd

Bist drdiy Lia NO fo itil ae i |
oh ed ag merge fiie! iil mit Ray aah ‘ey as a

MUA Pay "

sa. vailatot ited ryote oud
i ¥
wee yey Teles a if. SECT NE re | WE DHE Tae aan

ait
iw
Ly lad ? v dy iy

AR vcosb ing) hlmeg ka er Ve as | a pe Ge Pata gat Webi

nee, | PAR tes venient [alvin eolwich bed lard ih "ip ie
SLRGaey i ™ . eee

enn Lae Tired Cred i Aa Waite te ae ee oT hs MiP david
| i oT Po Oats Gay (ates } ae

y,
; . ; tj ‘a es
Vit lie ht laltivirtt oF S¢iteiay ate AAS?
vu, f i } Dy : ' «
itay (olf } j ios ‘ j i*) Arh lee
; irae 4 ) ria. ny
fix} vg - i tii iv
Ty eS 1
i ee! \ { r J { !
( He \ehen i ! i {
‘ ’ F
MEAT LICE) a? j a ria
ey li gee 1A }
+h fs8 || f 1autA sclhO ives f by ydetay ¢ at Wee \
tins Way, i ' eT ant TAA BV
am fy
Mo Ve dd
1 Cine a Ae
nM }s PRY Be AG
| 5 eRyii pe AM ein oA
ii ~ i
: yj an Lae ye yt a as Pad he ia
re a
a ae Ee . is }
TOC eye aka a am iy
j RD ay! ae oT) Al ' a :
hipaa ’ wis nr a are :
wane Re Went bi a is
\ 49° l\'“\ fn ‘de

7
_
a
a
—
The Childhood Pattern of Genius’

By Harotp G. McCurpy
Department of Psychology, University of North Carolina

Genius by any definition is rare. If, following Galton, we make
lasting fame one of the requirements, it is very rare indeed, and we
are reduced to studying it at a distance through biography. Now,
biographies have their limitations; as Havelock Ellis noted, one may
search through them in vain for the most ordinary vital statistics.
Above all, they cannot be expected to yield information on those
details of early life, such as nursing and weaning and toilet training,
to which psychoanalysis has attached so much importance. When,
therefore, one proposes as I do here to explore the question whether
there is some pattern of environmental influences operating on chil-
dren of genius which might help to account for their later achieve-
ment, it should be self-evident that the question is necessarily ad-
justed to something less than microscopic precision. Not only so, but,
because the factor of heredity cannot be controlled, any answer what-
soever must be regarded as partial and tentative and ambiguous.
Nevertheless, there may be some profit in asking the question, and
insofar as it is directed simply toward the discovery of uniformity
of environmental pattern there is no inherent reason why it should
not be answerable, provided we do not insist on minute detail.

Table 1 presents the 20 geniuses into whose childhood this paper
will inquire. The selection was partly deliberate, on theoretical
grounds, and partly random, as will be explained. In Cox’s monu-
mental study of great geniuses [7] * the main sample consists of 282
men drawn from the list of 1,000 which was compiled by J. McKeen
Cattell on the principle that the amount of space allotted to them
in biographical dictionaries could be taken as an objective measure of
their true eminence. Though one may certainly quarrel with some of
Cattell’s results, the sifting process applied by Cox was admirable.

1Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society,
vol. 73, No. 2, November 1957
2 Numbers in brackets indicate references at the end of the text.

527

492520-—59

ive)
an

528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

She arrived at her smaller list by requiring: (1) that the attained
eminence should clearly depend upon notable personal achievement ;
and (2) that the biographical material available should be sufficient
to permit a reliable estimate of early mental ability. Men born before
1450 were eliminated. The chief task of Cox’s investigation was
to estimate the intelligence level displayed by these rigorously selected
geniuses during childhood and youth. For this purpose the ap-
propriate information was extracted from biographical sources
and submitted to the judgment of three raters thoroughly experienced
in the use of intelligence tests and the evaluation of IQ from behavior.
Their three independent ratings, expressed as IQ’s, were combined.
Separate estimates were made for two periods of life: from birth
to age 17, and from age 17 to age 26. As might be expected, the
reliabilities of the estimates increased in proportion to the amount
of biographical information, and, in general, the 1Q’s based on the
more adequate material were higher. Consequently, one in search of
illumination on the early environment of genius would naturally
turn most hopefully to the geniuses in Cox’s list who had been as-
signed the highest childhood IQ’s. This I did. From her list I chose
as my preliminary sample the 27 men whose IQ’s in childhood had
been estimated at 160 or higher. The final sample of 20, as given in
table 1, was reached by dropping out those individuals for whom the
biographical material in the University of North Carolina Library
appeared to be inadequate.’ As will be observed, the order of listing
in the table is from the highest childhood IQ downward. The repu-
tation of each man is indicated in the column headed “Fame” by his
rank number in Cox’s sample, as based on Cattell. With respect to
fame the sample appears to be a fair cross section of Cox’s larger
group; with respect to IQ, as explained, it is highly selected. One
sees at a glance that here are individuals who did extraordinary work
in science, law, literature, or politics, and who fully deserve to be
called geniuses. Their biographies should be relevant to the
proposed question.

It should be understood from the outset that Cox did not neglect
the problem of environment. Her biographical sketches furnish some
very pertinent information, and she states as an important conclusion
that, on the whole, youths who achieve eminence have superior ad-
vantages in their early days. Though she notes exceptions, she says:
“The average opportunity of our young geniuses for superior educa-
tion and for elevating and inspiring social contacts was unusually
high. ... The extraordinary training for leadership received by
Pitt the younger, John Quincy Adams, Niebuhr, and the Humboldt
brothers; the specialized instruction of Mozart, Weber, and Michael-

3'The seven omitted were Schelling, Haller, Wolsey, Sarpi, Constant, Brougham, Bossuet.
In order to retain Leibniz an interlibrary loan was arranged for Guhrauer’s biography.
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 529

angelo undoubtedly contributed to the rapid progress of these great
men among the great” [7, p. 216]. The object of the present study
is to push forward in the same direction of inquiry, but with more
pointed attention to the social relations and their repercussions.

In table 1, one column briefly summarizes facts concerning order
of birth. Considerable theoretical importance is sometimes attached
to the chronological position of a child in the family. In particular,
Galton, who was not prone to overemphasize environment, thought
enough of order of birth to pay some heed to it in his investigation

TaBLE 1.—Twenty geniuses selected from Coz’s list

Estimated | Fame (rank Age at mar-
IQ in in 282) Birth order riage

childhood
Jo Ss Mall’ @806—1873)e. = 22-22-38 190 TOS eae larrns 9 eens ae ee 45
IeibnizaCliG4G—l7ai7 2222 ss = Sass 185 LOA Onlywws® A502 steer
Grotius (583-1645) sa eee 185 7) Fal Weal bso es ge eee ee 25
Goethe (1749—-1832)______------ 185 Av ein O eee ee 39
Pascale(iG23—1662)cowess ree 180 Sow lpOtintss tat: Stee eee
Macaulay (1800-1859) ___-_---- 180 Sd Tye Oia 2 Speyer
Bentham (1748-1832) _______--- 180 13H i hal Ens heh eas ee a se a Pe ke
Coleridge (1772-1834)____-_---- 1745) 1570 al AKOy abo tO Ae eee 23
Voltaire (1694-1778) _______---- 170 Oye brine Oar 8 2s enalbeae eee
Leopardi (1798-18387) ____------ 170 DS OMIM cays eee ean | ee
Chatterton (1752-1770) ______-- 170 [GSES inoue et ec Lew Bes ee
Niebuhr (1776—1831)________=_- 165 5 aleeenes eee a 24
Mirabeau (1749-1791)________-- 165 YO) 1) 4970) aay WtWjes eee 22
J. Q. Adams (1767-1848) _ __---- 165 PAL Osho eee eee 30
Wieland ((7ss=1813)22 252 3 160 TSA elt Shorea ee 32
asso: (544-1595) 22 ee oe ee 160 ACRES elias tee ee atte el | yee ee
Pope (1688—1744)____-_-_-_---- 160 BOmgOnlyeee 2 oe Sens oe eee
RittyGi59—-l806) Rees 22 2 eee Se 160 Qa Dring jee eee = ieee
Musset (1810-1857)_.-.-_-___-- 160 DG Oana eee sees |e reer
Melanchthon (1497—1560)_______ 160 eta Wel iM es ae Be 23

of British scientists; and he comments that “the elder sons have, on
the whole, decided advantages of nurture over the younger sons.
They are more likely to become possessed of independent means, and
therefore able to follow the pursuits that have most attraction to their
tastes; they are treated more as companions by their parents, and
have earlier responsibility, both of which would develop independence
of character; probably, also, the first-born child of families not well-
to-do in the world would generally have more attention in his infancy,
more breathing-space, and better nourishment, than his younger
brothers and sisters in their several turns” [18, p. 26]. There is an
intuitive appeal in the argument, but Galton does not support it by
any precise analysis of his data. What may be said about the present
sample? First, it must be admitted that there are several ways of
stating the facts, depending on whether one includes or excludes haltf-
siblings and siblings who died at an early age. The figures given in
the table stand for full siblings and include all births. The half-
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

siblings excluded in the three cases involved (Leibniz, Coleridge,
Pope) were children by previous wives of their fathers. The im-
pression produced by inspection is that there may be an excess of only
and first children among these 20 geniuses. But an analysis of the
probabilities does not favor this view very strongly. The average
likelihood of being born in first place in the 20 families works out
to about one-third, and the observed frequencies deviate from the
theoretically expected only enough to yield a chi square of 2 in sup-
port of the hypothesis; since this corresponds to a confidence level of
between 0.2 and 0.1 for the one degree of freedom, one is left in
doubt. Pascal, Niebuhr, and Adams were first sons. If we esti-
mate in terms of first sons, a total of 13, and adjust the probabilities
to the expectation that about half the children in multiple births
would be girls, the chi square is 1.8, again too small to support the
hypothesis firmly.

Though the figures do not support a birth order hypothesis, there
may nevertheless be something about position in the family which is
significant. Let us look at the seven who do not rank as first-born
children or first-born sons. Coleridge was born in his father’s old age
and was his “Benjamin”; Voltaire was so sickly during the first year
of his life that there was daily concern over his survival, and his
mother, an invalid, was incapable of having any more children;
Chatterton was a posthumous child, and the previous boy in the
family had died in infancy; Mirabeau was the first son to survive
after the death of the first and a succession of girls; Tasso was the
only surviving son, his older brother having died before he was
born; Pitt was in the interesting position of being able to follow his
father in a parliamentary career in the House of Commons, as his
older brother could not do so because of the inherited title; and Mus-
set, the second of two sons, was younger than the first by a significant
span of 6 years. When we weigh these additional facts, the general
notion of some sort of positional effect begins to reassert itself.

One way in which position in the family might favor the develop-
ment of a child would be by giving it higher attentional value for the
parents. Close examination of the biographical data leads to the
conclusion that these 20 men of genius, whether because of their
position in the family or not, did as children receive a high degree
of attention from their parents, as well as from others. In several
cases it is clear that the attention exceeded that accorded to their
brothers and sisters. Both very decided and very positive parental
interest was displayed toward Mill, Leibniz, Grotius, Goethe, Pascal,
Macaulay, Bentham, Coleridge, Niebuhr, Adams, Wieland, Pope,
Pitt, and Melanchthon. Voltaire and Musset were far from
neglected, but the attention bestowed upon them may have lacked
some of the intensity of focus notable in the preceding cases. If any
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 531

of the children suffered comparative neglect or abuse, they would be
Leopardi, Chatterton, and Mirabeau. Chatterton had no father from
the time of his birth, and the fathers of Leopardi and Mirabeau were
lacking in sympathy or worse. On the other hand, Chatterton’s
mother and sister helped him to learn to read, saw that he went to
school, and were good enough to him that the promise he made them
when a child to reward them with all kinds of finery when he grew
up was fulfilled in the last year of his short life; Leopardi was pro-
vided with tutors and had access to his father’s rich library; and
Mirabeau, cuffed and persecuted as he finally was by his erratic father,
was received into the world with an outburst of joy and was always
provided for educationally, even though the arrangement may have
been savagely disciplinary.

Favorable parental attention may take the two forms of displays of
affection and intellectual stimulation. There is strong evidence for
both in most of the cases in our list. Remarkable indeed are the
educational programs followed by Mill, Goethe, Pascal, Bentham,
Niebuhr, Adams, Wieland, Tasso, and Pitt, under the encouragement,
guidance, and powerful insistence of their fathers. Yet it is not the
educational program itself which requires our notice so much as it is
the intimate and constant association with adults which it entails.
Not only were these boys often in the company of adults, as genuine
companions; they were to a significant extent cut off from the society
of other children. The same statement can be made, on the whole,
for others in the list whose educations proceeded less directly, or less
strenuously under the guidance of fathers.

Warm attachments to children outside the family circle seem to
have been rare, and there are several cases of isolation within the
family, too. Yet it is within the family that most of the recorded
intimacies between these geniuses and other children developed.
Goethe, Pascal, Niebuhr, Macaulay, Voltaire, and Mirabeau ex-
perienced some intensity of affection for sisters; Musset for his older
brother. Macaulay and Voltaire remained attached to their favorite
sisters throughout their lives, becoming devoted uncles to their sisters’
children; Goethe’s and Pascal’s affection for their younger sisters
approached passion; and Mirabeau speaks of incestuous relations
with his.

The reality and nature of the pattern to which I am pointing—the
very great dominance of adults in the lives of these children, and their
isolation from contemporaries outside the family and, sometimes,
within—can be adequately appreciated only through a more detailed
statement about each individual.

Mill, under his father’s persona] and unremitting tutelage, began
hard intellectual work before he was 3. From very early he was given
the responsibility of acting as tutor to his brothers and sisters. This
032 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

did not increase his affection for them. In fact, he came to share
some of his father’s own antipathy toward them and toward his
mother. He explicitly states in his autobiography that his father
kept him apart from other boys. “He was earnestly bent upon my
escaping not only the ordinary corrupting influence which boys exer-
cise over boys, but the contagion of vulgar modes of thought and
feeling; and for this he was willing that I should pay the price of in-
feriority in the accomplishments which schoolboys in all countries
chiefly cultivate” [21, p.24f]. And again: “As I had no boy compan-
ions, and the animal need of physical activity was satisfied by walk-
ing, my amusements, which were mostly solitary, were in general of a
quiet, if not a bookish turn, and gave little stimulus to any other kind
even of mental activity than that which was already called forth by
my studies” (p. 25).

Leibniz, his mother’s only child, lost his father, a prominent uni-
versity professor, when he was 6. He retained two vivid memories of
him, both of them expressive of the high esteem in which his father
held him. His mother, who died when he was 18, devoted the re-
mainder of her life to caring for him. He lived at home, free from
“the doubtful liberties, the numerous temptations, the barbarous fol-
lies of student life” [18, p. 12]. Before he was 10 his father’s care-
fully guarded library was opened to him, and he plunged into its
treasures eagerly. It was conceivably no small thing to Leibniz that
his father had regarded his christening as marked by a symbolic
movement which seemed to promise that his son, as he wrote in his
domestic chronicle, would continue in a spiritual and burning love
for God all his life and do wonderful deeds in honor of the Highest
Dias eB omee AE .

Grotius was close to his father. He signed his early poems Hugei-
anus, thus joining his own name Hugo with his father’s name Janus
or Joannes. At 8 he reacted to the death of a brother by writing his
father consolatory Latin verses. He had competent teachers at home,
and entered the University of Leiden at 11; there he dwelt with a
devoutly religious man who impressed him deeply. He was famous
in the literary world very early, and received high praise from dis-
tinguished men. He sought his father’s advice when he chose a wife.
One would infer from the limited evidence that his association from
early childhood was primarily with adults.

Goethe throughout his childhood was carefully and energetically
supervised in his varied studies by his father. He associated fre-
quently with numerous skilled and learned and eminent men in Frank-
fort, among whom was his grandfather Textor. He enjoyed consider-
able freedom of movement through the city, in the intervals of his
studies, and struck up several acquaintances outside the home among
boys and girls; but these were certainly far outweighed by his adult
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 533

contacts, and by his intimacy with his sister, who had much less
freedom than he and who became increasingly embittered by the
educational discipline of their father. In his autobiography he notes
that he was not on friendly terms with a brother, 3 years younger,
who died in childhood, and scarcely retained any memory of the three
subsequent children who also died young. How close he and his sister
were may be gaged by these words regarding the aftereffects of his
love affair with Gretchen, at about 14: “my sister consoled me the
more earnestly, because she secretly felt the satisfaction of having
gotten rid of a rival; and I, too, could not but feel a quiet, haltf-
delicious pleasure, when she did me the justice to assure me that I was
the only one who truly loved, understood, and esteemed her” [14, p.
192].

Pascal was so precious in the eyes of his father, after his mother’s
death when he was 3, that, as the older sister tells us, the father could
not bear the thought of leaving his education to others, and accord-
ingly became and remained his only teacher. At 18 Pascal’s health
broke down from ceaseless application. He was frequently in the
company of the learned men surrounding his father. Huis primary
emotional attachment was to his younger sister, Jacqueline; her re-
ligious retirement strongly influenced his own religious development.

Macaulay early became absorbed in books, but his studies were more
unobtrusively guided by his father and mother and other relatives
than in the cases preceding. He was especially attached to his mother
in early childhood, and at home among his brothers and sisters was
overflowingly happy and playful. <A sister writes: “He hated
strangers, and his notion of perfect happiness was to see us all work-
ing round him while he read aloud a novel, and then to walk all to-
gether on the Common” [30, p. 67]. He was reluctant to leave home
for school for even a single day, and he was acutely homesick when
placed in a boarding school at about 12; there, though tolerated and
even admired by his fellow pupils, he had little to do with them, liv-
ing almost exclusively among books. The children at home passion-
ately loved him. It should not be overlooked that his father was a
deeply religious man of great force of character, energetic in religious
and political reform movements of considerable scope.

Bentham’s father, ambitious to make a practical lawyer of his first
and for 9 years his only child, kept him to a rigorous schedule of in-
struction in everything from dancing and military drill to Greek
from a very early age. From 7 to 12 he spent the winters at a board-
ing school, which he did not enjoy; in the vacations at home his
schooling, under private tutors, was much more intensive. He was
happiest on visits to grandparents in the country, where he could
talk to an old gardener or climb up a tree and read a novel. Too small
and weak to win the admiration of his fellows, “he tried to be in-
534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

dustrious and honest and noble and dutiful, finding that such a course
brought praise from his elders” [10, p. 20 f.]. When the death of his
warmhearted mother desolated his father and himself, Jeremy “was
just turned twelve, and was ready for Oxford, if a frail and under-
sized boy of twelve could be said to be ready for anything” [10, p. 22].

Coleridge’s father, though unambitious in general and not very
attentive to the education of his numerous other children, took special
pride in him and endeavored from the beginning to prepare him for
the church. Coleridge was the last of 14 children (10 by his mother),
and the extreme fondness of his parents aroused the hostility of the
older boys toward him. They drove him from play and tormented
him. On one occasion, when he was 8, he ran away from home after
a ferocious combat with the brother whom he had displaced as baby
of the family; he was found only after a prolonged search, and he
remembered all his life the tears of joy on his father’s face and his
mother’s ecstasy when he was recovered. Death of the father, when
he was 9, deprived him of his most valued companion. Shortly
afterward he was sent to a charity school in London. Here he made
a few friends, notably Lamb, but he lived a great deal in books and
in his own imagination.

Voltaire was born 5 years after the death in infancy of the next
preceding child, and his own life was despaired of daily for the first
year. His mother was an invalid; his father was a busy lawyer and
does not seem to have concentrated any particular attention on him,
beyond desiring that the boy should himself be prepared for law.
His education at home proceeded under the guidance of three dis-
tinguished and learned men, particularly the Abbé Chateauneuf, his
godfather. The two other surviving children were considerably older
than he; the brother he disliked, but he was fond of his 7-year-older
sister, and, after his mother’s death when he was 7, it was she to whom
he was chiefly attached in the family. At 10 he was quartered in the
best Jesuit school in France by his ambitious and wealthy father; here
he made the warmest and most lasting friendships in his life, but they
were with the teachers rather than with the boys.

Leopardi, the oldest of five children, remained until he was 24,
practically immured, in the house of his father, the Count, in a town
which he despised. In Leopardi’s own words: “Had no teachers except
for the first rudiments, which he learned under tutors kept expressly in
the house of his father. But had the use of a rich library collected by
his father, a great lover of literature. In this library passed the chief
portion of his life, while and as much as permitted by his health, ruined
by these studies; which he began independently of teachers, at 10
years of age, and continued thenceforth without intermission, making
them his sole occupation” [29, p. 2]. His closest companion was his
brother Carlo, a year younger; but he was reticent even with him.
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 000

With the other children he liked to produce plays in which the tyrant
(his father) was worsted by the hero (himself). At a later age he
regarded his home as a prison from which he had to break out.

Chatterton, born 3 months after his talented father’s death, was the
second surviving child of his very young mother, who had borne her
daughter 4 or 5 years earlier before her marriage was legalized. Under
their instruction, he learned the alphabet from an old illuminated music
manuscript of his father’s, which his mother had been about to throw
away, and learned how to read from an old blackletter Testament. He
had been dismissed from his first school as a dullard. Later, he went
to the uninspiring charity school which had been attended by his
father. A note on his relations with playmates before he was 5 speaks
of him as “presiding over his playmates as their master and they as his
hired servants” [20, p. 22]. Already at 5 he was greedy for fame, and
asked that a cup which had been presented to him by a relative should
have on it “an angel with a trumpet, ‘to blow his name about, as he said”
[20, p. 23]. He did form friendships at school, one in particular; and
the death of this boy plunged him into melancholy. But with none of
these, or with his sister, was he intimate enough to share the secret of
his Rowley poems, those impressive forgeries which seem to have been
written under the inspiration and tutelage of the beautiful church of
St. Mary Redcliffe rather than any human preceptor.

Niebuhr’s father, who had been a military engineer and explorer,
took up residence after his marriage at 40 in a retired little town and
devoted himself to his wife and family of two children. He liked to
entertain his own and other children with stories, games, and music;
but he concentrated particularly on the instruction of his son, for
whom he also provided tutors from about 4 or 5. A cultured neighbor,
Boje, who was editor of a literary periodical, took much interest
in the boy; and Boje’s wife began his instruction in French. Her
death when he was 10 overwhelmed him with grief and inclined him
even more seriously to his studies. Between 14 and 18 he spent most
of the day in hard work and general reading. When he was 16 his
father, thinking that his attachment to home was excessive and that he
was studying too much alone, sent him off to a school in Hamburg in
the hope that he would become more sociable; but he was unhappy,
and insisted on coming back. From an early age ill health and his
mother’s anxiety contributed their share to his inclination to solitude.

Mirabeau, the first surviving son of a family of the nobility, was in
the beginning his father’s pride. Later, after disfigurement by small-
pox at 3 and displacement from the position of only son by the birth
of a brother when he was 5, he became increasingly the object of his
erratic father’s dislike. Intense marital discord made him the more
hateful because he resembled his mother’s side of the house. He was
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

unfavorably compared with the other children, and repeatedly put
under severe disciplinarians as tutors. Eventually his father had
him imprisoned more than once. In the face of this persecution,
Mirabeau, helped partly by the affectionate interest of an uncle, suc-
ceeded nevertheless in developing an extraordinarily winning manner
in speech and personal contacts, even charming his jailers into relaxing
their punishments. Whether or not he was inclined to solitude, it was
forced on him by his father; much of his learning and literary produc-
tion took place in prisons or their equivalents. He was highly erotic,
and may have had sexual relations with his younger sister; for so he
asserts.

Adams regarded even his name, John Quincy, which was his great-
grandfather’s, as a perpetual admonition to live nobly. The Revolu-
tionary War and the Battle of Bunker Hill, which he witnessed, con-
firmed a serious habit of mind from early childhood. As his father
was absent from home a great deal, he was already as a small boy
depended upon by his mother as if he were a man. His education
commenced at home under a tutor, and continued in Europe in the
company of his father and other men notable in the governmental
service. It was not until he entered Harvard that he attended a regu-
lar school for any length of time. Both his mother and his father
tried to keep him from the corrupting influence of other boys, and it is
evident from the nature of his life that his chief contacts were with
grown men of serious and intellectual character. He read a great deal
under the guidance of his father, whom in his earliest letters he ob-
viously wished to please.

Wieland was educated at home under the eyes of his father, a pastor,
in somewhat the same severe manner as was Goethe. He studied hard
from 3 years of age. He says of his childhood: “I was deeply in love
with solitude and passed whole days and summer nights in the garden,
observing and imitating the beauties of nature” [26, p. 19]. He was
much more attached to books than to people. Prior to age 17, says
his biographer, “We encounter not a single friend of his own age, only
books and those who helped with them!” [26, p. 24]. He was sensi-
tive and unsociable when away at school, and when he returned home
he lived alone or associated only with older men. His biographer
makes no mention of his relations with his several siblings.

Tasso, whose old father was often compelled to be away from home,
lived with his young mother and his sister until he was separated from
them forever at 10, to join his father at the court of his patron prince.
Even while he remained at home he was being strictly educated, first by
an old priest, and then in a Jesuit school, which he loved. His mother,
of whom he was passionately fond, died 2 years after he went to join
his father. Of his childhood, Boulting says: “The prolonged absences
of his father, the tears of his mother, the straitened circumstances and
this sudden death were not healthy influences for a sensitive lad, and
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 537

there was a great deal too much educational pressure put upon him.
Bernardo was proud of Torquato’s talents and ambitious as to his
future. He forced him on and took scudi from a slender purse to pay
for special lessons in Greek. But a cousin came to Rome from Bergamo
to share in Torquato’s studies. No bookworm was this lad, but full of
fun and a thorough boy. Nothing could have been luckier” [38, p. 31].
A little later he had as his companion in the study of the graces
(horsemanship, jousting, etc.) a boy of 8, son of Duke Guidobaldo.
Otherwise he seems to have associated primarily with men, often men
of great dignity and learning.

Pope, the only child of his mother (there was a half-sister more than
9 years older), was from the earliest period a domestic idol, as Stephen
says. His father and mother, both 46 at his birth, and a nurse, con-
centrated their affection upon him, which must have been all the more
intense because he was sickly, and humpbacked like his father. “The
religion of the family made their seclusion from the world the more
rigid, and by consequence must have strengthened their mutual ad-
hesiveness. Catholics were then harassed by a legislation which would
have been condemned by any modern standard as intolerably tyran-
nical” [28, p. 2]. Most of his education was accomplished at home,
with some help from a family priest and his father, who corrected his
early rhymes. From 12 he threw himself into his studies so passion-
ately that his frail constitution threatened to break down.

Pitt was born at the high peak of his father’s career as Prime Min-
ister of England. When the title of Earl of Chatham was conferred
on him, this second son, then 7, exclaimed, “I am glad that I am not
the eldest son. I want to speak in the House of Commons like papa.”
Partly because of his feeble health, the boy was brought up at home
under the instruction of his father and a tutor. His father concen-
trated upon developing his oratorical powers. At 14 he was sent to
Cambridge, where he was placed in the care of a sound scholar, who
remained his inseparable companion, and practically his only one,
for more than 2 years. He had no social life there. He read with fa-
cility such books as Newton’s “Principia” and the obscurest of the
Greek poets. “Through his whole boyhood, the House of Commons
was never out of his thoughts, or out of the thoughts of his instructors”
hier p. L297"

Musset was the second son in a family devoted to literature, “an in-
fant prodigy on whom the intelligence of his brother, 6 years his
elder, did not fail to exercise a stimulating effect. Alfred developed
his mind in the constant companionship of Paul much more rapidly
than he would have in the company of children his own age” [5, p.
12]. He was notable from early childhood for his sensitivity, charm,
emotional ardor, dramatic power, and susceptibility to feminine
beauty. At a very tender age he was already disappointed in love.
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

He went to school for a short time with his brother, but sickness and
the hostility of the other children toward these Bonapartists soon
led to their being tutored at home, by a young man who knew how
to combine pleasure with instruction.

Melanchthon always remembered the dying injunction of his
father: “I have seen many and great changes in the world, but greater
ones are yet to follow, in which may God lead and guide you. Fear
God, and do right” [25, p. 6]. Before this time (his father died
when he was 11) he was, by his father’s express wishes, strictly
educated, for a while in a local school, and then by a tutor, a con-
scientious teacher and stern disciplinarian. Afterward he came more
directly under the influence of the celebrated scholar Reuchlin, who
was his relative. It was Reuchlin, impressed by the scholarship of
the little boy, who changed his name from Schwartzerd to its Greek
equivalent Melanchthon. Of his earlier childhood it is related that
he often gathered his schoolfellows around him to discuss what they
had been reading and learning; and his grandfather delighted to
engage him in learned disputes with traveling scholars, whom he
usually confounded.

The brief sketches preceding tend to confirm the rule, I believe, that
children of genius are exposed to significantly great amounts of in-
tellectual stimulation by adults and experience very restricted con-
tacts with other children of their age. Nor should we overlook the
fact that books themselves, to which these children are so much
attached, are representatives of the adult world. This is true in the
superficial sense that they are provided by adults and, more signifi-
cantly, may be drawn from a father’s sacred hbrary (one thinks of
Leibniz, Leopardi, even Chatterton) ; it is true in the profounder sense
that they are written by adults, and, in the case of most of the reading
done by these children, for adults. Books extend the boundaries of
the adult empire.

There is an effect in this constant intercourse with the adult world
which may be especially important in the development of genius. Not
only is there an increase of knowledge, which is the usual aim of the
instructors; there is also, in many cases, a profound excitement of
imagination. Even John Stuart Mill confesses that he did not per-
fectly understand such grave works as the more difficult dialogs of
Plato when he read them in Greek at 7. What, then, happens to such
adult material pouring into the child’s mind? Mill does not elucidate
his own case; but there is evidence in a number of the biographies
before me that the dynamic processes of fantasy go to work on it and
richly transform both what is understood and what is not.

Much of Goethe’s association with other children was simply an occa-
sion for expressing his vivid fantasy life; he entranced them with
stories of imaginary adventures. Musset, also, reveled in a world of
make-believe based upon the Arabian Nights and similar literature,
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 539

and bewitched his enemies by the magic power of imagination. These
were to become poets. But Bentham, who was no poet, imagined him-
self growing up as a hero like Fénelon’s Telemachus and was stirred to
moral fervor by sentimental novels. And two of the practical poli-
ticians in the list, Pitt and Niebuhr, may give us some insight into the
process. When Pitt was around 13 or 14 he had written a tragedy, of
which Macaulay has this to say: “This piece is still preserved at
Chevening, and is in some respects highly curious. There is no love.
The whole plot is political; and it is remarkable that the interest, such
as it is, turns on a contest about a regency. On one side is a faithful
servant of the Crown, on the other an ambitious and unprincipled con-
spirator. At length the King, who had been missing, reappears,
resumes his power, and rewards the faithful defender of his rights.
A reader who should judge only by the internal evidence, would have
no hesitation in pronouncing that the play was written by some Pittite
poetaster at the time of the rejoicings for the recovery of George the
Third in 1789” [17, p. 68 f.]. Out of his learning Pitt had constructed
a dream prescient of his own future career. And who can say that
the actions of a Prime Minister are not as much the expression of a
private drama as they are the realistic application of the sciences and
the laws? Niebuhr, who became a practical man of business and
politics as well as the historian of Rome, writes explicitly about his
own childhood experience, in a letter to Jacobi in 1811: “Our great
seclusion from the world, in a quiet little provincial town, the prohibi-
tion, from our earliest years, to pass beyond the house and garden, ac-
customed me to gather the materials for the insatiable requirements of
my childish fancy, not from life and nature, but from books, engrav-
ings, and conversation. Thus, my imagination laid no hold on the
realities around me, but absorbed into her dominions all that I read—
and I read without limit and without aim—while the actual world was
impenetrable to my gaze; so that I became almost incapable of
apprehending anything which had not already been apprehended by
another—of forming a mental picture of anything which had not
before been shaped into a distinct conception by another. It is true
that, in this second-hand world, I was very learned, and could even, at
a very early age, pronounce opinions like a grownup person; but the
truth in me and around me was veiled from my eyes—the genuine
truth of objective reason. Even when I grew older, and studied an-
tiquity with intense interest, the chief use I made of my knowledge,
for a long time, was to give fresh variety and brilliancy to my world
of dreams” [4, p. 354].

My point is that fantasy is probably an important aspect of the
development of genius, not only in those cases where the chief avenue
to fame is through the production of works of imagination in the
ordinary sense, but also in those where the adult accomplishment is of

492520—59 36

540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

a different sort. Instead of becoming proficient in taking and giving
the hard knocks of social relations with his contemporaries, the child
of genius is thrown back on the resources of his imagination, and
through it becomes aware of his own depth, self-conscious in the fullest
sense, and essentially independent. There is danger, however, in the
intense cultivation of fantasy. If it does not flow over into the ordi-
nary social relations by some channel, if it has to be dammed up as
something socially useless, then it threatens life itself. An expression
of what I am referring to is given in that powerful scene in the first
part of Goethe’s “Faust” where the physician-magician, tampering
with incantations, raises a spirit of overwhelming presence and quails
before him. Something nearer to an outright demonstration is fur-
nished by the life of Chatterton and his suicide.

Before he was 18 Chatterton was dead by his own hand. If we
examine his life, we see that it breaks apart into two distinct regions:
an outer shell of schoolboy, apprentice, pretended antiquarian, and
writer of brittle satire; and a core—the serious and deeply emotional
15th-century poet Rowley, whose connection with himself he never
publicly acknowledged. One must not forget that Chatterton’s fan-
tasy existence as Rowley has points of contact with his father, the
musician schoolteacher who died before his son was born, but who, in
a sense, presided over the boy’s education through the music manu-
script from which he learned his letters and the blackletter Testament
in which he learned to read, and who, by his connection and the con-
nection of his family with the magnificent church of St. Mary Red-
cliffe, which overshadowed the place of Chatterton’s birth and was his
favorite resort from the brutalities of Bristol, might surely continue
to hold converse with the imaginative boy. The Rowley poems fur-
thermore are related to Chatterton’s search for a pedigree. In short,
through Rowley, Chatterton established relations with the world of
the dead; and since he could not admit that he himself was the author
of the Rowley poems, but had to pretend to have found them in his role
as antiquary, and was thus rejected as an impostor by Walpole, he
could not through Rowley establish contact with the world of the liv-
ing. The surface which he was able to present to the world was hard,
brittle, violent, unreal. Yet even in his relations with the world he
appeared to be doing the same thing he was doing through the Rowley
fantasies, namely, seeking a father to love and protect him. He
evidently placed great hopes in Walpole; but he had also tried and
been disappointed in the patronage of men of lower caliber in Bristol.
Eventually he came to a dead end in London, where he had no friends
even of the quality of Bristol’s Catcott. Just before he committed
suicide he was Rowley once again in the most beautiful of his poems,
the “Balade of Charitie,” which sums up his experience of the world
and his yearning for a loving father. If it was Rowley who enabled
Chatterton to live, it was also Rowley who opened the door of death
CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS—McCURDY 541

for him and ushered him out of a world of constant bitter disappoint-
ment into a world of kindly and Christian spirits.

Chatterton is a supreme example of the dangers and costs of genius.
Having no father or other appreciative adult to link him to the world,
he was swallowed up by his imagination. But it is too often over-
looked in the textbooks that genius in less tragic cases is generally
a costly gift. Superficially an enviable piece of luck, it is actually a
fatality which exacts tribute from the possessor. Extreme absorption
in very hard work is one of the penalties, and sometimes broken health.
Isolation from contemporaries, often increasing with the years, is
another. Whether we should include heterosexual difficulties as
another, I am not sure, but I have indicated some of the facts in the
last column of table 1 and wish to consider the matter briefly. Fifty-
five percent of our sample did not marry at all. There may be no
special significance in this, since according to statistics for the United
States [11] the marriage rate for the total population of males above
15 is only about 60 percent and may have been lower in earlier times.
On the other hand, this group, with the exception of Chatterton,
ranges in age from 39 to 84 and should be compared with the higher
age groups. According to the 1930 census in the United States mar-
’ riage had been entered into by 86 percent of men in the age range
from 35 to 44, and by age 60, which is about the median for our group
of geniuses, it had been entered into by about 90 percent. I will only
note further that some delay or reluctance or dissatisfaction attended
the marriages of Mill, Goethe, Coleridge, Mirabeau, Wieland, and
perhaps Melanchthon, but it would not be desirable here to go into
greater detail because of the impossibility of making appropriate
comparisons. It may be that for marriages both freely contracted and
happily sustained a rate of 3 in 20 is not out of the ordinary, though I
should be inclined to say that here, too, we have an expression of the
costliness of genius.

In summary, the present survey of biographical information on a
sample of 20 men of genius suggests that the typical developmental
pattern includes as important aspects: (1) a high degree of attention
focused upon the child by parents and other adults, expressed in inten-
sive educational measures and, usually, abundant love; (2) isolation
from other children, especially outside the family; and (8) a rich
efflorescence of fantasy, as a reaction to the two preceding conditions.
In stating these conclusions I by no means wish to imply that original
endowment is an insignificant variable. On the contrary. Galton’s
strong arguments on behalf of heredity appear to me to be well
founded; and in this particular sample the early promise of these very
distinguished men cannot be dissociated from the unusual intellectual
qualities evident in their parents and transmitted, one would suppose,
genetically as well as socially to their offspring. It is upon a ground-
work of inherited ability that I see the pattern operating. Whether
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the environmental phase of it summarized under (i) and (2) is
actually causally important, and to what extent the environmental
factors are related to the blossoming out of fantasy, are questions
which could be examined experimentally, though obviously any
thorough experiment would require both a great deal of money and a
certain degree of audacity. It might be remarked that the mass edu-
cation of our public school system is, in its way, a vast experiment on
the effect of reducing all three of the above factors to minimal values,
and should, accordingly, tend to suppress the occurrence of genius.

REFERENCES

. ApamMs, C. F. Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, vol. I. Philadelphia. 1874.
. BretscHowsky, A. The life of Goethe, vol. I. New York. 1905.

. Bouttine, W. Tasso and his times. London. 1907.

. Bunsen, C. C. J; Branpis, J.; and Lorsett, J. W. The life and letters of

Barthold George Niebuhr, vol. I. London. 1852.

. CHARPENTIER, J. La vie meurtrie de Alfred de Musset. Paris. 1928.
. CouRTNEY, W. L. Life of John Stuart Mill. London. 1888.
. Cox, ©. M. The early mental traits of three hundred geniuses. Stanford

University Press. 1926.

. Exxiot, H. S. R. The letters of John Stuart Mill, vol. I. London. 1910.

. Evuis, H. A study of British genius. Boston. 1926.

. EVERETT, C. W. The education of Jeremy Bentham. New York. 1931.

. Fousom, J. K. The family and democratic society. New York. 1948.

. GALTON, F. Hereditary genius. New York. 1871.

. Gatton, F. English men of science. New York. 1875.

. GorTHE, J. W. von. The auto-biography of Goethe. Truth and poetry: from

my own life. London. 1848.

. GUHRAUER, G. E. Gottfried Wilhelm Freiherr von Leibnitz, eine Biographie,

vol.I. Breslau. 1842(?).

. Hanson, L. The life of S. T. Coleridge: the early years. New York. 1939.
. Macauray, T. B. Life of Pitt. New York. 1859.

. Merz, J.T. Leibniz. New York. 1948.

. MESNARD, J. Pascal, Vhommeet l’oeuvre. Paris. 1951.

. Mryerstern, E. H. W. A life of Thomas Chatterton. London. 1930.

. Miz, J. S. Autobiography of John Stuart Mill. New York. 1948.

. Montieny, L. Memoirs of Mirabeau. London. 1835.

. Parton, J. Life of Voltaire, vol. I. Boston. 1881.

. Pérmer, MMe. “Vie de B. Pascal.” Jin Pensées de B. Pascal. Paris. 1854.
. Ricuarp, J. W. Philip Melanchthon, the Protestant Preceptor of Germany,

1497-1560. New York. 1902.

. SENGLE, F. Wieland. Stuttgart. 1949.
. STANHOPE, Earl. Life of the Right Honourable William Pitt, vol. I. London.

1861.

. STEPHEN, L. Alexander Pope. New York. N.d.
. THOMSON, J. Essays, dialogues and thoughts of Giacomo Leopardi. London.

N.d.

. TREVELYAN, G. O. The life and letters of Lord Macaulay, vol. I. New York.

1876.

. VALLENTIN, A. Mirabeau. New York. 1948.
. VREELAND, H. Hugo Grotius, the father of the modern science of international

law. New York. 1917.

. WILLeerT, P.F. Mirabeau. London. 1931.
The New England Porringer:
An Index of Custom

By AnTHoNY N. B. GaRvAN

Head Curator of Civil History
Smithsonian Institution

[With 8 plates]

Oxsecrs are but imperfect records of action. However valid their
authenticity, their design and pattern are seldom so critical as to have
determined the exact course of the events with which they are related.
Thus despite the markings which a firearm may leave upon a deadly
ball, many other weapons of like or similar design can inflict an equally
serious wound. The angle of the shot, the distance that separated
victim and weapon, and all other details must be ascertained from the
words of witnesses or the careful analysis of circumstantial evidence.
The Deringer (pl. 1, fig. 1), however incontrovertibly linked to the
bullet by the indisputable marks of its barrel, gives no clue as to
motive for its use, the provocation, or a host of other pertinent ques-
tions. All these must be answered apart from the weapon. Certainly
very few artifacts can describe a particular action. Most, like an
assassin’s firearm, become mere curiosities whose significance is buried
in a plethora of sentiment. All the rich detail and human significance
of the original event become obscured by what is at best incidental.

In 1824 the Marquis de Lafayette revisited the United States. His
landing was recorded in the press, by correspondents, diarists, and
artists. In England, the Clews pottery in Cobridge, Staffordshire, was
quick to take advantage of popular interest and manufactured, among
other pieces, a handsome platter with a view of the arrival of the
Marquis at Castle Garden (pl. 1, fig. 2). Produced in blue-and-white
glaze with the view adapted to the curvature of the piece, it describes
little of the event. The flags, the ships, the harbor, the buildings, have
all become patently distorted by the many persons who have adapted
the original view to the requirements of the platter. Moreover, the
piece tells little but the obvious facts about English ceramic manufac-
tures of the period which any other vessel might do equally well.t

1Platter by James & Ralph Clews of Cobridge. Ellouise Baker Larsen, American his-

torical views on Staffordshire china, p. 57. New York. 1950.

543
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Although the platter lacks the accidental association which the
Deringer enjoyed, its pictorial evidence seems, when first examined, of
very little more value to the historian. But let us suppose for a
moment that our questions be made more subtle and somewhat indirect.
Instead of asking the platter to perform the verbal task of the manu-
script or the eyewitness, let us ask it to act as an index of values and
ideas seldom expressed verbally. However inferior as a reporter, it
contains a superb record of the English estimate of American values
and loyalties. Moreover, since the design became popular, it is clear
that the British estimate did not miss the mark and that in fact the
event excited American imagination. Finally, the evidence of the
plate and its popularity rivals the best contemporary written opinion
because, however discerning the latter, its bias remains indestructible.
Since, in fact, each sale of the plate measures a minutia of popular
opinion, the design gives thereby an insight which only an exhaustive
survey could present. Moreover, as historians are well aware, Eng-
lishmen seldom committed any but their gravest misgivings about
America to paper; the platter suggests a wider range of sympathetic
if inarticulate feeling among English manufacturers.’

From the 19th century to which the Booth Deringer and the platter
belong, so many objects have survived as to make their interpretation
a statistical as well as an analytical problem. From the late 17th
century and early 18th century, so few Colonial artifacts remain, the
very real danger of overweighting the available objects exists. At the
same time, this very paucity makes the neglect of any clues given by
authentic objects more culpable.

One of the most common vessels of early New England silver is the
porringer. Quite unrelated to English silver vessels of the same name,
it most closely resembles the English bleeding bow] (pl. 2, fig. 1; pl. 5,
fig. 2), but seems to have been seldom if ever designed for that purpose.®
Its size varies from 4 to 6 inches in diameter with a bowl] 1 to 2 inches
deep. Handles, while not of uniform size, range from 134 to 3 inches
from the vessel’s rim to its tip. ‘The vessel form is common in pewter
and often listed in American inventories of the 17th and 18th cen-
turies.* However, despite the wide variety of American Protestant
church plate, Alfred Jones was unable to list a single silver porringer
among their holdings. Since tankards, standing cups, English por-
ringers, mugs, beakers, flagons, and many domestic vessels all appeared

2A similar exercise with the Deringer might stress that role of honor in 1826 in America
which convinced its outstanding elite of the necessity and correctness of the personal
firearm.

3A very full discussion of terminology has recently appeared which stresses the inac-
euracy of the English use of “porringer” and ‘“‘bleeding bowl” and adapts American practice.
The Stuart period, 1603-1714, ed. Ralph Hughes and L. G. G. Ramsey, pp. 82-83. New
York and London. No date.

4Suffolk County (Mass.) Probate Record, Book XXIII, p. 331, Inventory of Samuel
Tower, June 10, 1724; “To Pewter vizt. Platters, plates, tankard, basons, porringers
Sorrel Ol Osan
NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER—GARVAN 545

on American altars or communion tables, the absence of the American
porringer strongly suggests that it not only did not fit Protestant
ritual but also that it was seldom used for drinking quantities of
mildly alcoholic liquors.®

Moreover, this comparative independence cannot be laid to New
England’s provincial isolation or sturdy independence. In the matter
of silver design, constant cultural contact and interchange took place.
The migration of silversmiths, the semipublic church collections, and
the descent of personal property by inheritance created a constantly
shifting and changing pool of silver forms available to the curious
artisan. Should he wish, he might closely follow English forms as
did Robert Sanderson in his two-handled cup of 1670-85 which he
chose to ornament heavily with the native American turkey and a
farmyard hen.® Yet even in this seemingly natural choice, he had
been anticipated by Henry Greenway of London who in 1659 placed a
parrot and a similar turkey cock among the tulips and asters(?) of
a nearly identical repoussé caudle cup.’

That New England should accept and develop the American por-
ringer, despite such a close interchange of ideas and craftsmen, while
Englishmen largely neglected the form, argues that in New England
these porringers had a function not indicated by their name or by
modern usage, and that their popularity, in fact, arose from their
intimate adaptation to Puritan concepts and customs. Moreover, the
evolution of the New England porringer suggests that many aspects
of its design evolved as a consequence of Puritan idealism and homo-
geneity and that, with the decline of the Puritan theocracy, the New
England silver porringer tended to lose its individuality and
eventually to disappear.

The basic form of the New England porringer is not unique.
Small, comparatively shallow silver vessels with one or sometimes
two handles enjoyed popularity whenever exceedingly strong or thick
alcoholic drinks became popular. The Scottish quaich * and English
wine tasters both served much the same purpose as the New England
porringer, but at the same time differed too markedly to have served
as its progenitors.

In base metals, porringers likewise were common. Introduced from
France as écuelle or potage dishes, pewter porringers retained their
form and domestic and medical usefulness from the mid-16th century
until the mid-19th century (pl. 2, fig. 1). Because of the softness of
the metal and heavy usage, surviving domestic examples are rare, but

5H. Alfred Jones, The old silver of American churches, p. LXXII. Letchworth. 1913.

6 Index of American cultures, Historical Massachusetts, No. 14, pp. 1-2.

7 Parke-Bernet Galleries, ‘An Important Collection of Early English Silver, 1580-1820.”
Catalog 1789, p. 37. New York. 1957.

8Tan Finlay, Scottish gold and silver work, pls. 46-47. London. 1956. Two handles
designed for passing ; small size for strong drink.
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

the use of molds tended to maintain the popularity of anachronistic
designs long after abandonment by fashionable silversmiths.®
Clearly, with so many precedents the American silver porringer can-
not be claimed as an innovation of British or Dutch colonists. It
represents, however, a selection from European models which gained,
if numbers and care of manufacture are any clue, a new meaning and
importance in the colonies.

Few American silver porringers can be dated earlier than 1685.
At least two of the most celebrated of these claimants have either the
handle or monogram located in the fashion of posset pot or skillet
covers designed to serve as dishes for hot sauces,’® In this they follow
established, though not common, English practice." Close indeed to
the later American porringers, these covers have straight sides, cres-
cent piercings, and distinctive initials on the bottom or the side of the
bowl. Initials placed here indicate that they are intended to be read
when the vessel is placed upside down as a cover on a skillet or sauce
pot. Any use as a vessel would be secondary to their function as a
cover (pl. 2, fig. 2).

The use of the true American porringer must remain somewhat
problematic. Its single handle suggests the probable need of a spoon,
and the comparatively shallow depth that the mixture was often
alcoholic since without that precious ingredient a few ounces of gruel
would give little strength, physical or spiritual. The absence of the
second handle reduces the primary use of the vessel as a wine or
cool-drink taster, and the absence of an insulating material in the
handle the use of the porringer in warming or preparing mixtures
over an open flame.!2 Moreover, the large size of the American type
precludes its design as a bleeding bow]. What remains then is a vessel
designed for tasty dishes of strengthening gruel with a substantial
but not excessive alcoholic content.**

That the rise of the American silver porringer should occur
in the 17th century is not surprising, since in this period it found some

®In addition to The Stuart period, pp. 82-83, a full discussion of the pewter porringer
has appeared: Perey E. Raymond, “What is a Porringer?”’ Pewter Collectors Club of
America, Bull. No. 8, pp. 5-7. January 1941.

10 Mrs. Russel Hastings, Verifying a Hull and Sanderson porringer, Antiques, vol. 32,
pp. 116-118, September 1937. Edwin J. Hipkiss, The Philip Leffingwell Spalding Col-
lection of early American silver, pp. 13-14. Boston. 19438.

M

11An English posset pot with cover and handle similar to A I piece is illustrated in
Antiques, vol. 32, p. 118, and ancther in G. Bernard Hughes, Small antique silverware,
p. 79. London. 1957.

12 Holding such vessels over an open flame would only be possible for a very short time,
and a simple experiment refutes the traditional English view. J. H. Buck, Old plate,
its makers and marks, p. 103. New York. 1903.

13 The alternative position of describing all porringers as bleeding bowls because some
were so used is clearly confuted in the very catalog which gave the practice its greatest
prestige. Victoria and Albert Museum, Catalogue of English silversmith’s work, civil and
domestic, No. 73. London. 1920.
NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER—GARVAN 547

popularity in London. Its close resemblance to the French écuelle
and the existence of a few porringers with covers suggest the possi-
bility that it was introduced by Huguenot craftsmen migrating to both
England and America.’* Certainly the porringer by René Grignon,
Huguenot emigre (pl. 3, fig. 1), strongly resembles work done in
Canada by other French silversmiths (pl. 3, fig. 2), and at the same
time seems to have been closely followed by Jeremiah Dummer in his

porringer for unknown patrons whose initials were EK A (pl. 4, fig. 1).
Moreover, both the Grignon porringer marked for a couple married
in 1692 and the Dummer porringer have initials cut so as to read
when the vessel is placed lip upward, as when used for service and
not as a dish cover.

At this point, the Huguenot, the English, and the American por-
ringer seem very close in purpose, design, and ornament. All have
initials on the open bow! side of the handle and piercings of the handle
of tulips, crescents, and hearts contained in a vinelike silhouette.

However, after 1690 the American silver porringer rapidly devel-
oped along highly individual lines. In England the porringer gained
little popularity and became restricted to the medical practice of
cupping and bleeding. The French écuelle continued to develop as
a large covered two-eared soup dish elaborately decorated in the
Rococo fashion. But in America and especially in the Calvinistic
colonies of New England and of New York the porringer, as intro-
duced by the Huguenots or as developed from the skillet pot cover,
represented a new and welcome addition to church plate models com-
monly available.1® That it was closely associated with the refugee
Calvinistic Huguenots robbed it of the Papist taint which hung over
the great hoards of pirated Spanish plate occasionally seen in Boston.””

The basic chronology of American porringers rests upon the work-
ing and death dates of their makers. The attribution of initials, while
informative and of great interest, can only suggest the date of manu-
facture. The following table indicates (1) the working dates of the
silversmiths whose work is illustrated or discussed, and (2) the dates
of those illustrated by Bigelow together with the handle types of each
example:

4 The best example of these, unmarked, but with a handle similar to John Coney’s
work is in the Metropolitan Museum. An elaborate cover with gadrooning and cut card
work surmounts a 6%-inch bowl. Francis H. Bigelow, Historic silver of the colonies and
its makers, pp. 310-311. New York. 1931.

15 Louis Carre, A guide to old French plate. New York. 1931. Illustrations unmarked.

16 Samuel Sewall speaks of special measures taken to accommodate the Huguenots.
S. Sewall, Diary, vol. 2, p. 262, note 407.

17 Most famous was that of William Kidd, Gillam, Bradshaw and Witherly. ‘Iron chest
of plate and pearls, 40 bails of East India goods, 13 other cases, and two slaves or servants.”
February 1699-1700. Samuel Sewall, Diary, vol. 2, pp. 3-5, 7.
548

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Maker Date Handle type
dite) OTA ED UME nate ee eee oe . 1644-1683 Skillet.
Robert Sanderson_______- . 1630-1693 Skillet.
Rene Grignon =~ l222_- . 1691-1713 Huguenot.
David! Jeasesl. at ori sh iy: . 1690-1705 Puritan.
Jeremiah Dummer__-__-__-_ . 1665-1718 Huguenot, Puritan.
John’ Coney=20 22 sae sore . 1676-1722 Puritan.
Peter: @Oliver..2 202 S38 . 1702-1712 Huguenot.
William Jones. 2222 es . 1715-1730 Puritan—Rococo transition.
Jonathan Clarke_________ . 1734 Rococo.
Samuel Edwards_-________ . 1725-1762 Rococo.
Rufus Greene. 2007 ie a . 1727-1777 Chinese Chippendale.
William Cowell, Jr_______ . 1733-1761 Chinese Chippendale.
2. beter Olivers) ..2 52.0. . 1702-1712 Huguenot.
Jeremiah Dummer___-_-__-_ . 1665-1718 Huguenot, Puritan.
Samuel Vernon 2 s22-0222 . 1703-1735 Puritan.
Andrew ylers):. 4th. 4 . 1712-1741 Rococo.
John Edwards__________- ce. 1691-1746 Puritan, Chinese Chippendale.
Edward Winslow_________ c. 1689-1753 Puritan, Rococo.

In both lists the order of appearance of handles seems to be Skillet,
Hugenot, Puritan, Rococo, Chinese Chippendale. In exceptionally
long lives, like that of Edward Winslow or John Edwards, more than
one type appears.

Moreover, the marking of porringers suggests an erotic significance
as the mark of the fertility of a married couple. Just as the tankard
is closely though not exclusively associated with communion and the
concept of election, the porringer seems to have marked another step
in the hierarchy of the ideal Puritan life’ The point at which fer-
tility was celebrated remains obscure. It seems to be marked occa-
sionally after the birth of a single child, but much more often in
middle adult years shortly after the birth of the last of several
children.1® The occasional association of spoons might imply use at
confinement for strengthening gruels. (PI. 7, fig. 1.) Since the ini-
tials were most often those of man and wife and not of child, and
since the dishes lacked the additional silver loop below and at right
angles to the main handle commonly found in pap bowls, it can be
assumed that the valuable silver porringer was like the silver tankard,
principally a mark of status shared by man and wife and not a func-
tional weaning appliance to be loosely handled by nurse and infant.?°

The voids of porringer handles, while not altogether explicit in
their iconography, represent an apparently conscious effort on the part

33 Edmund 8S. Morgan, The Puritan family, p. 10. Boston. 1956. Samuel Willard. A
compleat body of divinity, p. 679.

#9 The conclusion is tentative and based upon published porringers and a cursory exami-
nation of those in the Yale Gallery of Fine Arts and a comparison of makers’ work dates
and owners’ life dates.

20 This point has been largely overlooked, but of Bigelow’s selection of 12 New England
porringers between 1685-1753, 7 have been attributed to man and wife, 2 are not identified,
3 have other attributions. Bigelow, Historic silver, pp. 305-314; Ramsey Traquair, The

old silver of Quebec, pl. III. Toronto. 1940.
NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER—GARVAN 549

of Colonial silversmiths to create a meaningful symbolism, a sym-
bolism which reflects the New England divergence from English
views on church and state followed by the gradual substitution of
Royal authority and merchant goals in the place formerly held by
the theocratic government and ideals of the Massachusetts Bay
Company.

French colonial work of the period seems to have combined heart
and scallop-shell motifs in various ways. (PI. 3, fig. 2.) The heart
as a symbol of sanctioned love and divine fervor and the scallop as
the vehicle of Venus which carried strong and possibly direct sexual
connotations were combined sometimes with the vine of the Lord’s
vineyard and sometimes with an escutcheon suitably initialed. Despite
the use of the escutcheon, a typical British and Puritan device, the
early porringer remained in part an uncovered écuelle, French in
feeling. (PI. 4, figs. 1 and 2.)

This handsome design seems to have persisted only in the brief
career of Peter Oliver (1682-1712) (pl. 5, fig. 1). More typical of
New England were the so-called geometric handles which might be
more appropriately termed Puritan design. Diverging sharply from
both London and French practice, these handles closely paralleled
official Puritan views on love and marriage and symbolized at once
religious concern and married love. (PI. 5, fig. 2.)

“There is, therefore, no comparison so much used in the Scriptures
to represent the mutual love between Christ and His Church as that
which is between a Man and his Wife.” Or again from the New
England Primer of 1727:

H My Book and Heart
Shall never part.

These piercings have at their base QQ, a small opening cut to
imitate the tablets of the Decalogue required by law to hang in
English churches as the primary symbol of the English Reformation
and its attack on Catholic iconography.”2 The tablets especially
suited the Puritan in New England since they combined a reference
to the Old Testament with a reminder of the virtue of religious learn-
ing and at the same time gave no undue concessions to the role of the
crown in the determination of religious practice.* They were so used
on the title page of the popular and influential “New English Tutor.”
The other piercings are less clear. The quatrefoil occurs commonly
in both a symmetrical and asymmetrical shape and in many different
positions. Trefoils are less common decorative piercings. Whether
either had a commonly understood symbolism, it is difficult to say.

21 Samuel Willard, A compleat body of divinity, p. 679. Boston. 1726.
22G. W. O. Addleshaw and Frederick Etchells, The architectural setting of Anglican
worship, p. 85. London. No date. The Royal Order of 1561 made official a recent custom.

23 This last made the use of Royal Arms and symbols especially objectionable to Puritans.
Sewall, Diary, vol. 1, p. 158; vol. 8, p. 159.
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Regular quatrefoils appear on communion tables where their Chris-
tian significance and association must have been understood.” Irregu-
lar quatrefoils suggest knots, a well-understood symbol of marriage.
On the other hand, many tombstone makers put on grave markers
fully rounded bands of fruit and leaves. These fruits hang in pairs
and have been described as pomegranates or figs. The one, the sym-
bol of Resurrection, would be incongruous with the other elements
of the porringer handle. The latter, a symbol of earthly prosperity,
would fit the porringer in design and purpose. Figs would seem
the most likely symbol since they might appropriately fit both the tre-
foil and the quatrefoil of the Coney or Puritan porringer.”

Tulips or lilies are the closest link to earlier styles and seem also

to reflect a conscious symbolism. Their presence on a porringer as
upon household articles suggests Christian love or even the ecstasy
of divine revelation, a doctrine strongly emphasized by the Puritan
concept of election. This correlation of physical love and the vision
of divinity seemed, of course, a reasonable one borne out by the
use of the tulip or lily on New England marriage chests. Moreover,
this link is closely forged in the decorative motifs of Pennsylvania
where the symbolism is made doubly apparent in poetic imagery.
Combined with the tablets, hearts, trefoils and quatrefoils, and with
initials most usually attributed to married couples, the porringer gave
a very real and positive affirmation of orthodox Puritan doctrine
which heartily applauded lusty and legitimate unions as the founda-
tion of God’s chosen people.
... Now a conjugal Love is that which is adapted for conjugal Society and
by it Persons are fitted to a cheerful Discharge of all the Duties which belong
to them in that Relation: Nor can they be truly and sincerely discharged with-
out it. And as this Love is that which only can make the married state truly
Comfortable and Happy ... and the want of it is that which makes so many
Matches so unhappy as is too obvious among men.”

The other piercings of this Puritan porringer are more controver-
sial. Crescents have a nearly universal lunar symbolism and cer-
tainly 17th-century poetry often refers to the moon as the
guardian of lovers. Single circles are less clear. Often present, they
may represent a simplified version of the flaming host often engraved
upon English communion cups and the sun of Judgment Day common
on tombstones, or, on the other hand, may only serve as a functional
purpose in the design. Significantly, whatever their interpretation,
they introduce no false note in the combination of Puritan symbols
of love and scripture which fill the larger part of the handle.

24 Wallace Nutting, Furniture treasury, vol. 1, pl. 811. New York. 1948. For an
English example with grapevine and wheat(?), see Luke V. Lockwood, Colonial furniture
in America, vol. 2, p. 169. New York. 1951.

25 Harriette M. Forbes, Gravestones of early New England, 1653-1800, pp. 23, 28, 29,
122, 123: Boston. 1927.

26 Willard, Compleat body of divinity, pp. 679-680.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Garvan PLATE 1

1. Deringer used by John Wilkes Booth to assassinate Abraham Lincoln.

Courtesy of National Park Service.

veeeeenrenss 2

pe =

2. Platter, ‘‘ Landing of General LaFayette at Castle Garden, New York, 16 August 1824.”
Marked: Clews warranted Staffordshire. Courtesy of Henry F. DuPont Winterthur
Museum.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Garvan PEATE, +2

1. Pewter bleeding bowl by John Foster, London, after 1741.

2. Porringer by John Hull and Robert Sanderson (c. 1655-83). Courtesy of Museum of
Fine Arts, Boston.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Garvan PLATE 3

= vneo - siesneciieee 3

1. Porringer by René Grignon after 1692. Courtesy of Mabel Brady Garvan Collection,
Yale University Art Gallery.

2. French Canadian écuelle, Hotel Dieu, Quebec. Courtesy of Macmillan, Toronto.
Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Garvan PLATE 4

1. Porringer by Jeremiah Dummer (c. 1665-1718). Courtesy of Worcester Art Museum.

2. Porringer by Jeremiah Dummer (c. 1670-80). Courtesy of Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston.
PEATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1958.—Garvan

‘ALO]][PH) WV Alisioalus 9

PA

‘uOl{da]]0g UvAIe Apeig

[eqey fo Asaqino”y *(ZZZ[-9Z9] *9) AvuOg uyof Aq Josutsog °

(6

un

asnyy Jo

Asaqinod

“uU01SOg ‘SUIV oul fo

‘(CI-ZOLT

*D) IIATIC) 19}9

Aq

IOS ULIIO

d

‘|

PLATE 6

, 1958.—Garvan

Smithsonian Report

-yyIwWG 942 Ul “(OS—STZT °9)

*suol}oo]]¢

1) uolyn{ysuy ueluos

souof welyjIA, Aq

1

105 UuLLIOg *

(

jo ASO] INO)

*ALO[[PL)
Wy AlsioatupA, ae ‘uoNsa]JoQ uealrg Aprig joqry\
“(ZZLI-9L91 °9) Aouog uyof Aq sJesutI0g *]

PIRATE 7.

= -Garvan

5

Smithsonian Report, 19

*Alo[]e) WY AVUSIOATUL) 2[P

x

me (o) eter) i(e)

AS9}INOZ) “(FELI *2) yIodMaN ‘YARIS

8) uPA
ueyye

et)

uo|

Ape

Aq

1g jeqe

W #9

105 ult Id *

>

c

“suc NYII[[OD uolynyt }sSUuy

SZZI 9) spiempy janureg Aq u

UBLUOSY TWIG eyt ul “(79

oods paleisosse pure JaBulog

a

Fs

ali

2

ie

a

PLATE 8

1958.—Garvan

Smithsonian Report,

“SUOI}D9[[OD uolynjyysuy ueluos

“yutg oa UL “(T9-EE/T *9) “Af “JOMOD weIA, Aq seBuLI0g *7

"AIDED WAY Alssoaluyy) a[e X “UOlda][OD URAIeH Apeig
“(LL-LZL1 °2) weet sngny Aq isBul0g *]

Jeqey Jo Asayinog

NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER—GARVAN 551

Makers’ marks provide additional confirmation of the basic trend
in piercing design. Since they are the consequence of the careful
and exact manufacture of punches, they combined the artisan’s con-
cept of a significant outline with what he was certain would not
offend his patrons. Significantly, the heart appears in the marks of
five of the most celebrated early silversmiths—Robert Sanderson,
John Hull, Jeremiah Dummer, John Coney, and Peter Oliver. It was
rivaled in frequency only by the shield of John Edwards, Benjamin
Hiller, George Hanners, Joseph Glidden, John Burt, and John Coney.
The tablet appears in the mark of Sanderson and Hull: only, the
sunburst most notably in Sanderson’s work. Rarest of all, a book on
stand(?) suggesting the outline of a pulpit framed the EW of
Edward Winslow. How to weigh the clear division between the
earlier heart mark and the later escutcheon must remain indetermi-
nate. Both are common in English marks, among many other forms
almost totally unknown in New England. Both represent aspects
of religious values strongly emphasized by Puritanism: on the one
hand, divine love or revelation, on the other, personal achievement.
The gradual emergence of the latter closely paralleled the rise of
Royal government and the decline of the theocratic party after 1690.

The development of the iconography of the Puritan handle like-
wise seems to follow closely the decline of Puritan prestige.
Significantly the first element to disappear is the silhouette of the
tablets which in one Coney piece seems to have been actually re-
shaped into an ample tulip (pl. 6, fig. 1), and in another piece by
David Jesse (Smithsonian) to have been altered by filing. Coinci-
dentally, or soon thereafter, the trefoils, quatrefoils, and circles
vanish before the onslaught of sheafs of wheat and other new forms.
Hearts, crescents, and tulips (lilies) maintain for a time their im-
portance, but become distorted and agitated into more violent angles
and shapes (pl. 6, fig. 2; pl. 7, fig. 1).

Significantly, these shapes no longer determine the pattern of the
handle but must adapt themselves to the sinuous vinelike outline of
the handle’s outside edge. While remaining symmetrical, the handle
manages to suggest the movement and distortion of the Rococo.
Mantlings added to initials mark the increased role of personal
achievement (pl. 7, fig. 2). Meanwhile, new openings unfamiliar in
their pattern to Puritan iconography have begun to appear. Some-
times the vine encloses horns of plenty, at another time cockle shells.
Gradually the vine becomes more explicit and realistic until, as in
Chinese Chippendale furniture, it quite dominates the design. (PI.
8, figs. 1 and 2.) A significant aberration of this handle type was
made by Joseph Richardson, Sr., in 1775, when for Thomas Paine he
552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

cut a star directly in the center of the porringer handle which Paine
gave “his esteemed friend Dr. Rush.” 7

The maker of the porringer shown in plate 8, figure 1, Rufus Greene,
died in 1777, 85 years after the René Grignon porringer of 1692. In
that period, a silver form, probably borrowed from the persecuted
Calvinistic Huguenots or from neglected English practice, had been
modified and developed by Puritan craftsmen according to Puritan
ideology and accepted iconography. This complete, if somewhat self-
conscious, form had in turn yielded to the sinuous enchantments of
the Rococo, of a rediscovered nature, and the awakening of a natural-
istic iconography, as Puritanism itself had fallen victim to the
Enlightenment on the one hand and to the Great Awakening on the
other.

The handles, then, of the porringers call attention to the role of
the Huguenot in Boston society at the turn of the 18th century.
The acceptance of his écuelle as a suitable form for a gift measures
his acceptance by Puritan orthodoxy, the appeal of his novel skill
to Bostonians, and suggests the boredom of a homogeneous society
with the Puritan temper. The initial purging of the French forms
and their recombination into an acceptable Puritan formula indicate
the strength of the orthodox party and the extraordinary extent of
its influence. The rise of Rococo ornament more closely associated
with natural forms and the corresponding decline of Puritan symbols
parallel the increasing importance of materialism and of Royal
government in the determination of taste and, by implication, of
society itself. Such matters difficult to measure in the partisan writ-
ings of the few sometimes find their best reflection in the overt sug-
gestion of customary artifacts.

27 Collectors notes, Antiques, vol. 75, p. 194, February 1959. This choice of handle in-
dicates the maker’s and possibly the donor’s direct concern with the iconography of the
voids in the porringer handle.
INDEX

Abbot, C. G., x
Accessions, 12, 68, 76, 77, 78, 96, 110,
131, 134, 141, 143, 197, 210
Bureau of American Hthnology, 76,
77, 78, 80
Freer Gallery of Art, 110
Library, 210
National Air Museum, 131, 134
National Collection of Fine Arts,
96
National Gallery of Art, 197
National Museum, 12
National Zoological Park, 141, 143
River Basin Surveys, 68
Allen, Gordon (Does natural selection
continue to operate in modern man-
kind?), 359
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the
Institution, v, 5, 41, 126
Anderson, Robert B., Secretary of the
Treasury, member of the Institution,
v, viii, 196
Anglim, John H., vi, 36
Appropriations, 5, 6, 50, 140, 188, 197,
»
Astrophysical Observatory, 6
Bureau of American Ethnology, 6
Canal Zone Biological Area, 6
International Exchange Service, 6,
188
National Air Museum, 6
National Collection of Fine Arts, 6
National Gallery of Art, 6, 197, 232
National Museum, 6
National Zoological Park, 6, 140,
232
River Basin Surveys, 6, 50, 232
Aschemeier, Charles R., 44
Astrophysical Observatory, vii, 6, 9, 82
Appropriation, 6
Astrophysical Research, Division
of, 82
Publications, 87, 93, 221
Radiation and Organisms, Division
of, 90
Report, 82
Staff, vii
Audit, 209, 232
National Gallery of Art, 209
Smithsonian private funds, 232

B

Backwash of the frontier, The: The im-
pact of the Indian on American cul-
ture (A. Irving Hallowell), 447

Baird, Thomas P., 203, 204

Baker, Thomas G., 36
Bales, Richard, 208, 209
Barker, Bert, 169
Bartsch, Paul, ix
Bass, William M., III, 53, 54, 62, 65,
66, 70
Bassler, R. S., ix
Battison, E. A., vii, 31
Bayer, F. M., vi
Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National
Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 95, 108,
109
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, viii, 196
Bell, Donald B., 169
Bennett, C. F., Jr., 184
Benson, Elizabeth, 203
Benson, Ezra Taft, Secretary of Agri-
culture, member of the Institution, v
Biebighauser, Ernest E., 221
Bio-Sciences Information xchange, 7
Bishop, P. W., vii, 32
Blake, John B., vii, 32, 43
Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C., 75
Blanchard, Ruth E., librarian of the
Institution, v, 11, 213, 214
Blest, A. D., 184
Bliss, Robert Woods, 95
Boardman, Richard §., vi, 28, 44
Borgogni, Judith, 36
Bory, Bela S., vi, 44
Bouton, Dr., 206
Bowers, Alfred, 66
Bowman, T. E., vi
Boyle, W. E., vi
Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito, The
(Neil M. Judd), 501
Bredin, J. Bruce, ix
Briggs, R. E., vii
Brooks, Overton, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 5
Brown, Janice S., 213
Brown, John Nicholas, regent of the
Institution, v, 5, 95
Brown, R. W., ix
Brown, William L., vi, 37
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., 44
Buchanan, Lee L., 45
Bullen, K. H. (Earthquakes and related
sources of evidence on the earth’s
internal structure), 319
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 6, 8,
46, 220
Appropriation, 6
Archives, 75
Collections, 76, 77, 78, 80
Editorial work and publications,
78, 220

553
oo4

Bureau of American Ethnology—Cont.
Illustrations, 78
Miscellaneous, 81
Report, 46
River Basin Surveys, 50
Staff, vii, SO
Systematic researches, 46
Byrd, Mrs. Mabel A., vi, 38

C

Cahill, J. F., viii, 119, 122, 125
Cairns, Huntington, viii, 196, 209
Caldwell, Warren W., 58, 65, 69
Campbell, Leon, Jr., 86, 89
Campbell, William P., 203
Canal Zone Biological Area, viii, 6, 9,180
Acknowledgments, 186
Appropriation, 6
Buildings, equipment, and improve-
ments, 1838
Finances, 185
Pians and requirements, 184
Rainfall, 182
Report, 180
Scientists, students, and observers,
186
Visitors, 181
Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 5, 232
Canter, A. L., 169
Carmichael, Leonard, Secretary of the
Institution, v, viii, 37, 38, 39, 95, 127,
142, 196
Carriker, M. A., ix
Cartwright, O. L., vi.
Casey, Louis 8., viii, 126
Chace, I". A., Jr., vi
Chancellor (Earl Warren, Chief Justice
of the United States), v
Channing, James, 33
Chapelle, Howard L, vii, 30, 43
Chapman, Car], 66
Chase, Mrs. Agnes, ix
Chemical elements, The abundance of
the (Hans BE. Suess), 307
Chief Justice of the United States (Harl
Warren, Chancellor of the Institu-
tion), v, viii, 196
Christensen, Erwin O., 203
Clain-Stefanilli, Mrs. Elvira, vii, 43
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir, vii, 34
Clark, Mrs. Leila F., 11, 212
Clark, Mrs. Margaret C., vii
Clark, T. F., treasurer of the Institu-
tion, v
Clarke, Gilmore D., 95
Clarke, J. F. Gates, vi, 25
Clarke, Roy S., Jr., vi, 44
Cloud, Preston, ix
Cochran, Doris M., vi
Collins, Henry B., Jr., vii, 47
Collins, J. A., Chief, International
Hxchange Service, viii, 11, 195
Compton, Arthur H., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 5
Conger, P. §8., vi
Coogan, Alan H., 70

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958

Cooke, C. Wythe, ix

Cooke, Hereward Lester, 203

Cooper, G. Arthur, vi, 5, 27

Cott, Perry B., viii, 196, 203

Courtais, Henri G., 108

Cowan, Richard S., vi, 24

Cox, Donald (Rocketry), 261

Crabill, R. E., Jr., vi, 25

Crawford, Frederick C., x, 126

Crist, Raymond KE. (Acculturation in
the Guajira), 481

Cunningham, L. E., 86

Cutress, C. E., Jr., vi

D
Dale, Chester, viii, 196
Daniels, Farrington (The = sun’s
energy), 237
Danjon, A., 87
Darwin-Wallace centenary, The (Sir

Gavin de Beer), 333

Davis, Malcolm, 169, 170

Davis, Robert J., vii, 84

de Beer, Sir Gavin (The Darwin-
Wallace centenary), 333

Deetz, James J. F., 64, 65, 70

Deignan, H. G., vi

DePrato, Mario, 169, 170

Desautels, Paul E., vi, 44

Dixon, Rear Adm. R. E., viii, 127

Dobzhansky, Theodosius (Does natural
selection continue to operate in mod-
ern mankind ?), 359

Docent service, 41

Donors and their gifts (see under
Accessions )

Doolittle, Lt. Gen. James H., viii, 127

Dorman, Charles G., vii, 33, 35

Drake, C. J., ix

Duutes, John Foster, Secretary of State,
member of the Institution, v, viii

Dunkle, David H., vi, 18, 28

H

Earthquakes and related sources of evi-
dence on the earth’s internal struc-
ture (K. E. Bullen), 319

Ecology of man, The (Paul B. Sears),
375

Eddy, William B., 35

Edelen, Mrs. Eloise B., 78, 220

Hisenhower, Dwight D., President of the
United States, Presiding Officer ex-
officio, v

Elder, R. A., J'r., vi, 24

Histad, Victor B., vii, 90

Establishment, The, v, 4

Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 118, 119,
120, 121, 122, 123, 124

Evans, Clifford, Jr., vi, 23

Evans, Dr., 206
INDEX

Ewers, John C., vi, 42
(A century of American Indian
exhibits in the Smithsonian Insti-
tution), 513
Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents, v, 223, 282
Members, v, 232
Report, 223
Appr GEE east a2
Assets, 227
Audit, 232
Cash balances, receipts, and
disbursements, 228
Classification of investments,
226
Consolidated fund, 224
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 226
Gifts, 229
Parent fund, 223
Summary of endowments, 226
Unexpended funds and endow-
ment, 227
Exhibitions, 37, 103, 109, 201
Vational Collection of Fine Arts,
109
National Gallery of Art, 201
National Museum, 37
Traveling, 108, 201
Explorations and fieldwork, 22, 46, 5
Bureau of American Hthnology, 46
National Museum, 22
River Basin Surveys, 54

4

r

Farrell, Mrs. Lynne, 86
Feidler, Ernest R., viii, 196
Feinstein, B. R., 25
Ferguson, Eugene §., vii, 30, 43
Field, W. D., vi
Finances, 5, 185, 223
Canal Zone Biological area, 185
(See also Appropriations)
Finley, David E., 95
Fireman, Edward L., vii, 85
Fleming, Robert V., regent of the Insti-
tution, v. 5, 232
Folsom, Marion B., Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, member of
the Institution, v
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 1106
Attendance, 115
Auditorium, 116
Building, 115
Changes in exhibitions, 111
Collections, 110
Herzfeld Archive, 115
Lectures, 116, 119
Library, 112
Publications, 113, 221
Repairs to the collections, 111
Report, 110
Reproductions, 115
Staff, viii
Activities of, 117
Fresh water for arid lands (David §S.
Jenkins), 285

509

Friedmann, Herbert, vi, 24
Froiland, Alfred G., vii, 82
Fugle, Eugene, 66

Fyfe, Howard, 175

G

Gallagher, Bernard, 170
Garber, Paul E., viii, 11, 127, 128, 129
Gardner, Paul V., vii, 33, 48
Garvan, Anthony N. B., vii, 5, 38, 43
(The New England porringer: An
index of custom), 543
Gaziny CMs Wiel, 2 (28

Gazin, Mrs. Hlisabeth H., 213
Genius, The childhood pattern of
(Harold G. McCurdy), 527

Gettens, R. J.,
128, 124

Gifts, 141, 185, 229

(See also under Accessions)

Ginsberg, Isaac, ix

Glance, Grace H., 44

Goins, Craddock R., Jr., vii, 36

Golden, Bernard, 65, 70

Goodrich, Lloyd, 95

Grabar, Oleg, x

Graf, John E., ix, 19

Graham, D. C., ix

Grant. Row 27

Greenewalt, Crawford H., regent of the
Institution, v, 5

Greenwood, Mrs. Arthur M., ix

Griffenhagen, George B., vii, 31

Griffith, F. O., III, vii

Grimmer, J. Lear, viii, 11, 169, 170

Guajira, Acculturation in the (Ray-
mond H. Crist), 481

Guest, Grace Dunham, x

H

Hale, Mason W., Jr., vi, 15, 24

Hallowell, A. Irving (The backwash of
the frontier: The impact of the In-
dian on American culture), 447

Hancock, Walker, 95

Handley, Charies O., Jr., vi, 138, 25

Harrington, John P., ix, 80

Harrison, J. H., vii

Hartle, Donald D., 63, 69

Haskins, Caryl ioe "regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 5, 232

Hawkins, G. S., 85

Hayes, Bartlett, 95

Hemphill, Barbara, 75

Henderson, Edward P., vi, 28, 85

Herber, Elmer C., ix

Hilger, Sister M. Inez, ix

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., ix

Hodge, Paul, 85

Hood, Maj. Gen. Reuben C., Jr., viii, 127

Hopkins, Philip S., Director, National
Air Museum, Viii, 11, 126, 139

Howard, James H., 53, 66

Howell, A. B., ix

Howell, EH. M., vii, 36

Hower, R. O., Vi

viii, 118, 120, 121, 122,
506

Hunsaker, Jerome C., regent of the In-
stitution, v, 5

Hurt, Wesley R., Jr., 66

Huscher, Harold A., 54, 60, 63, 70

Hynek, J. Allen, vii, 84, 86, 87, 89, 90

I

Ide, Capt. John J., x, 126
Indian, The impact of the, on American
culture, The backwash of the frontier :
(A. Irving Hallowell), 447
Indian exhibits in the Smithsonian
Institution, A century of American
(John C. Ewers), 513
International Exchange Service,
6, 9, 187
Appropriation, 6, 188
Foreign depositories of govern-
mental documents, 189
Foreign exchange services, 194
Parliamentary exchange of the offi-
cial journal, 191
Publications sent and received, 188
Report, 187
Ireland, R. R., Jr., vi
Irving, Laurence, ix, 18
Irving, William N., 60, 64, 65, 7

viii,

J

Jacchia, Luigi G., vii, 84, 85, 86, 90
Jellison, W. L., ix
Jenkins, David S. (Fresh water for arid
lands), 285
Johnson, D. H., vi
Judd, N. M., ix
The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bon-
ito), 501
Junior League docent service, 41

K

Kainen, Jacob, vii, 32

Karras, Mrs. B. A., 36

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the
Institution, v

Kellogg, A. Remington, Assistant Secre-
tary of the Institution, v, vi, 10, 45

Kendall, E. C., vii, 31

Kenyon, Karl W. (The sea otter), 399

Kestner, F. B., chief, photographic lab-
oratory.

Kier, Porter M., vi, 28, 29, 44

Killip, BE. P., ix

King, Earl A., 169

King, W. J., Jr., vii, 31

Klapthor, Mrs. Margaret B., vii, 35

Klein, William H., vii, 90, 93

Knight, J. B., ix

Knipling, E. F. (Screwworm eradica-
tion: Concepts and research leading
to the sterile-male method), 409

Kress, Rush H., viii, 196

Krieger, Herbert W., ix, 44

Krook, Max, vii, 83

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1958

L

Lachner, HE. A., vi
Lato, Stephen E., 175
Lautman, D., 86
Lawless, Benjamin W., Jr., vi, 36
Lea, John S., 218
Lectures, 7, 116, 128, 129, 203
Leonard, E. C., vi
Lewton, F. L., ix
Library, 10, 110, 207, 210
YWreer Gallery of Art, 110,
National Gallery of Art, 207
Smithsonian, 210
Accessions, 210
Report, 210
Summarized statistics, 213
Lindsay, G. Carroll, vii, 35
Lingebach, John C., 37
Loehr, Max, x
Loening, Grover, viii, 127
Lyon, Rowland, 108

M

MacDonald, Roger, 140

MacKay, F. W., ix

MacManus, Ruth B., 216

Madison, Lee G., 65

Male, W. M., viii

Mann, W. M., x

Manship, Paul, 95

Martin, Glenn J\., 108

McCall, Francis J., vii, 34

McCancee, Ellen, 125

McClure, F. A., ix

McCurdy, Harold G. (The childhood
pattern of genius), 527

McHiroy, Neil H., Secretary of Defense,
member of the Institution, v

MclIlhenny, Henry P., 95

McIntosh, Allen, ix

McNutt, Charles H., 62, 65, 66, 70

Meggers, Betty J., ix, 23

Mellon, Paul, viii, 196

Meltzer, Alan §., 83

Members of the Institution, v

Michelson, Mrs., 206-207

Miller, Carl F., 49, 53, 54

Mitchell, James P., Secretary of Labor,
member of the Institution, v

Modena, William G., 169

Moh, Carl C., 92

Mongan, Hlizabeth, 203, 204

Moore, J. P., ix

Morrison, J. P. E., vi

Morton, C. V., vi, 24

Moynihan, Martin H., Resident Natu-
ralist, Canal Zone Biological Area,
viii, 11, 186

Muesebeck, C. F. W., ix

Mulloy, William, 66

Multhauf, Robert P., vii, 29

Murray, Mrs. Anne W., vii, 33

Museum of History and Technology, vi,
3, 29, 41, 43

Building, 3, 41, 42
Staff, vi
INDEX Bae

Museum of Natural History, vi, 4, 42, 48
Staff, vi
Wings, 4, 42

N

National Air Museum, viii, 6, 9, 126

Accessions, 134

Advisory Board, viii, 127

Appropriation, 6

Assistance to Government depart-
ments, 130

Improvements in exhibits, 129

Public information service, 130

Reference material and acknowl-
edgements, 131

Repair, preservation, and restora-
tion, 130

Report, 126

Special events, 127

Staff, viii
National Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 6,
9, 95

Accessions, 96
Appropriation, 6
Art works lent, 98

Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial
Fund, 101

Information service and staff activ-
ities, 107

Loans returned to the Smithsonian,
96

Myer, Catherine Walden, Fund, 96
Ranger, Henry Ward, Fund, 101
Report, 95
Smithsonian Art Commission, 95
Smithsonian lending collection, 100
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition
Service, 103
Special exhibitions, 109
Withdrawals by owners, 96
National Gallery of Art, viii, 10, 196,
232
Accessions, 197
Activities, curatorial, 203
Other, 208
Appropriation, 6, 197, 282
Attendance, 197
Audit, 209
Educational program, 205
Exhibitions, 201
Gifts, 197, 209
Index of American Design, 207
Library, 207
Maintenance
grounds, 208
Officials, viii, 196
Organization, 196
Personnel, 197
Publications, 204
Report, 196
Restoration, 204
Traveling exhibitions, 201
Trustees, viii, 196
Works of art lent, 200
Works of art on loan, 199
Works of art on loan returned, 199

of building and

National Museum, vi, 6, 7, 12
Appropriation, 6
Buildings and equipment, 41
Collections, 12
Docent service, 41
Exhibitions, 37
Exploration and fieldwork, 22
Organization and staff, Changes in,
41
Report, 12
Staff, vi, 43
National Zoological Park, viii, 6, 9, 140,
P32,
Animals in the collection on June
30, 1958, 146
Appropriation, 6, 168, 232
Births and hatchings, 143
Cooperation, 175
Exchanges, 143
Hxhibits, 140
Finances, 168
Gaur, 168
Gifts, 141
Giraffes, 166
Grounds, buildings, and enclosures,
177
Information and education, 169
Personnel, 169
Plans for the future, 179
Purchases, 1438
Report, 140
status of the collections, 145
Veterinarian’s report, 171
Visitors, 173
Natural selection, Does [it] continue to
operate in modern mankind? (Theo-
dosius Dobzhansky and Gordon
Allen) , 359
Neuman, Robert W., 58, 59, 60, 64, 65,
(ae
Newman, J. B., chief, personnel divi-
sion, V
Newman, M. T., vi, 23
Nielson, George J., 84
Nixon, Richard M., Vice President of
the United States, member of the
Institution, v, 5
Norris, Ralph, 169

O

Oakley, Kenneth( Tools makyth man),
431

Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial and
publications division, v, 222

Officials of the Institution, v

Oliver, L. L., building manager, v

Organization and staff, changes in, 10

Ott, John E., 29

iP

Paradiso, John L., 13, 25

Parfin, Sophy, vi

Pearce, Franklin, 17, 27

Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administrative
assistant to the Secretary, v

Perry, Kenneth M., vii, 31

Perrygo, Watson M., 37
558

Peterson, Mendel L., vii, 35
Phillips, Dunean, viii, 196
Pleissner, Ogden, 95
Pope, Annemarie H. (Mrs. John A.),
Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service, viii, 96, 108
Pope, John Alexander, viii, 116, 119, 121,
as Bs Ya |
Porringer, The New England: An index
of custom (Anthony N. B. Garvan),
543
President of the United States (Dwight
D. Hisenhower, Presiding Officer ex
officio), v
Presiding Officer ex officio (Dwight D.
Hisenhower, President of the United
states), v
Price, Derek J., 30, 44
Price, Leonard, vii, 91
Publications, 10, 78, 107, 113, 204, 215
American Historical Association,
221
Astrophysical Observatory, 87, 221
Bureau of American Hthnology, 78,
220
Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion, 222
Distribution, 216
Freer Gallery of Art, 113, 221
National Collection of Fine Aris.
LOT, 221
National Gallery of Art, 204
National Museum, 218
Radiation and Organisms, Division
of, 93
Report, 215
River Basin Surveys, 51
Smithsonian, 216

Q

Quigley, Carroll, ix

R

Radiation and Organisms, Division of,
vii, 80
Ray, David, 211
Reed, Theodore H., Director, National
Zoological Park, viii, 11, 169, 170, 179
Reeside, J. B., Jr., ix
Regents, Board of, v, 5, 223
Annual Meeting, 5
Hxecutive Committee, v,
Members, v, 232
Report, 223
Members, v, 5
Rehder, Harald A., vi, 15
Research associates, collaborators, and
fellows, ix
Revelle, Roger (Sun, sea, and air), 251
Rhoades, Katherine N., x
Riesenberg, S. H., vi, 23
Riggs, F. Behn, Jr., vii ,85
Rinehart, John S., vii, 85, 89

239

ave

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

1958

River Basin Surveys, vii, 6, 50, 232
Accessions, 68
Appropriation, 6, 50, 232
Publications, 51
Report, 50
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Director,
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii,
11, 46, 47, 58, 81
Rocketry (Donald Cox and Michael
Stoiko), 261
Rogers, Grace L., vii, 32, 33
Rogers, William P., Attorney General
of the United States, member of the
Institution, v
Roth, Rodris, C., vii, 35
Rudd, Velva E., vi
Russell, Rear Adm. James §., 127

Ss

Saltonstall, Leverett,
Institution, v, 5
Sawyer, Charles, 95
Schaller, W. T., ix
Scheans, Daniel J., 66
Schilling, Gerhard F., 87, 89, 90
Schmitt, Waldo L., ix, 25
(Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian-
Bredin Caribbean Expedition),
419
Schultz, L. P., vi, 26
Schumacher, H. G., 78
Schwartz, Benjamin, ix
Scott, Jack, 28
Serewworm eradication: Concepts and
research leading to the sterile-male
method (EH. F. Knipling), 409
Sea otter, The (Karl W. Kenyon), 389
Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson, 45
Sears, Paul B. (The ecology of man),
375
Seaton, Fred A., Secretary of the In-
terior, member of the Institution, v
| Secretary of the Institution (Leonard
Carmichael), v, vili, 5, 37, 38, 39, 95,
127, 142, 196
Secretary of State, 196
Secretary of the Treasury, 196
Setzer, Henry W., vi, 25
Setzler, frank M., vi, 22, 34, 41
Shanidar I skull, The restored (T. D.
Stewart), 473
Shepard, Katherine, 203, 204
Shoemaker, C. R., ix
Shropshire, Walter, Jr., 92, 93
Sirlouis, J. Russell, 44
Smith, Carlyle 8., 66

regent of the

Smith, H. Alexander, regent of the In-
stitution, v,5

Smith, Lyman B., vi, 15

Smithsonian Art Commission, 95

Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedi-
tion, Narrative of the 1958 (Waldo L.
Schmitt), 419

Smith, G. Hubert, 57, 58, 71
INDEX

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice, viii, 103

Snodgrass, R. E., ix

Snyder, T. E., ix

Solecki, Ralph S., vi, 5, 12, 24, 44

Soper, C. C., x

Stapko, C. Gregory, 108

Stephenson, A. L., vii

Stephenson, Robert L., 46, 56, 61, 65,
66, 68, 69

Stern, Harold P., viii, 116, 119, 121, 123,
125

Sterne, Theodore E., vii, 83, 86

Stevenson, J. A., ix

Stewart, T. Dale, vi, 12, 22, 28, 42

(The restored Shanidar I skull),
473

Stirling, Matthew W., ix, 11, 46, 80

Stites, Dr., 206

Stoiko, Michael (Rocketry), 261

Straub, P. A., ix

Stroman, Herbert R., 143

Sturtevant, William C., vii, 48, 49

Suess, Hans E. (The abundance of the
chemical elements) , 307

Sugiura, T., 111

Sullivan, Francis, 204

Summerfield, Arthur H., Postmaster
General of the United States, member
of the Institution, v

Sun, sea, and air (Roger Revelle), 251

Sun’s energy, The (Farrington Dan-
iels), 237

Swallen, Jason R., vi

Swanton, John R., 80

Switzer, George S., vi, 38

T
Talbert, D. G., vii
Tavares, Ronald, 37
Taylor, Frank A., vi, 11, 29, 42, 48
Taylor, W. R., vi
Taylor, W. W., Jr., ix
Thomas, Charles, 169
Tobin, W. J., ix
oe makyth man (Kenneth Oakley),
ul

Traveling Exhibition Service. (See
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition
Service)

U

Usilton, Mrs. Bertha, 121, 125

Vv

van Biesbroeck, George, 87
Varsavsky, Carlos, 85
Vaughn, Peter P., vi, 29, 44

509

Visitors, 6, 115, 175, 181, 197
Canal Zone Biological Area, 181
Freer Gallery of Art, 115
National Gallery of Art, 197
National Zoological Park, 175
Smithsonian buildings, 6

Vogel, Robert M., vii, 32, 43

Vorys, John M., regent of the Institu-

tion, v, 5

Ww

Walker, Egbert H., vi, 15, 24

Walker, E. P., x

Walker, John, viii, 196

Waring, A. J., Jr., ix, 80

Warren, BHarl, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor of the
Institution, v, viii, 5, 196

Washburn, Wilcomb }E., vii, 33, 43

Watkins, C. Malcolm, vii, 22, 34

Watkins, William N., vii, 30

Wedderburn, A. J., Jr., vil

Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 39, 62, 63

Weeks, Sinclair, Secretary of Com-
merece, member of the Institution, v

Wegenroth, Stow, 95

Weiss, Helena M., vi

Wenley, Archibald G., Director, Freer
Gallery of Art, viii, 5, 95, 118, 121,
122523 2 125

West, Elisabeth, 121, 123

West, Mrs. Lnor O., 1238

Wetmore, Alexander, ix, 18, 26, 27

Wheeler, Richard P., 65, 72

Whipple, Fred L., Director, Astrophysi-
eal Observatory, vii, 84, 85, 90, 94

Whitney, Charles A., vii, 83, 86

Widder, Robert B., 36

Widener, John C., 36

Widman, William, 169, 170

Wilding, A. W., chief, supply division, v

Williams, Dan G., Jr., 11, 195

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., ix

Withrow, Mrs. Alice P., vii, 92, 93

Withrow, Robert B., 92, 93, 94

Wolff, John B., 91

Wood, John, 85

Woodbury, Robert S., 44

Wright, James F., 169

2X
Xanten, William A., Jr., 170
Y

Young, Mahonri M., 95
Young, Rodney S., 7

Z

Zetek, James, x

O
., et a A

yas

ete (a Witt? yy mo Nt Oe! AY

. . a 5 i
i x
‘ ‘ te oe eee oP an
Wi HET ad d Coe
: Lis
ws Rens
; "
j ‘ ah
: i“ id
ty “Pete
7 { ‘

f
fits
{ Sad ey
’
ve
] i
‘
‘
r i
‘
.
F,
f
\ 5
’
’
4 a
: ‘ * 9
; .
i
4
Aa
: d j ‘
A aan bie . Fi
74) PAL) 1p 2h? ) f "
’ Phe F
f
:
Ciena
7 |
'
- iy
it ¥ i
:
7
i
/ rit
rs i j Fee y
7 i) A Aa - ah Le

ye an : fis
ep Come WO . -
ra if he Wath ju al ee an
y Tay, th el ne ih : 7

An iia i] i

he

wait lie me, ; ' q es
P oo Nis fia bai nw 7 " Lith " puis Hn i er 7 mn ne wey ‘ii " at i} mi i it iu Liu AY rd al Di
y
i ; i

» ce i 7 ” n vy 7 ; \ Yo
iaeecs yk , ix 4) i? ie
pala iat eae aa at re
: p . .) ad See os Pi 6 ny - ' 1 Pp 7 ’ i
i tT Lory. % =, | “nN ae ri Ht iF ; mA v4 L
ae +59 ea vo i oS I 4) Ay  ¥ 5 a
ae, Ae oe a a Is | ae va) ‘77 anes 0 ay i |
in a ie’ a —: me ¥ <4 aw 7 a , : of
vi Vs a we . : hal nl Ae ns: ve. er _ : : ia. vr 1 ih i
: é ay _ vil vid : eB mn 7 ao in ay. }
7» 7 it"), PRe Ire 7 i< iu 7 7 ln : ‘ i ay *
a _ _wewas <<? 7 i ie iw an ” 0 vA y
ie = er wre ke i i ; 4 ae a -
ry (pos - ee : . - ais)
7 “ de y > v4 , ‘ 7 ; { 7 ' W
ny i 4 j ¥ ‘ : a : ee aa yi 1 . 7 i °
oy ave « 4 AA eer “i
Oy ‘an Peay : ae ta * : a |
Peas ho yt +. we 1 - a a
ey - : ' _— 7 : ’ BA
- ot (0
a: i ; al : 7 a 1s oe vo €
By i, ; se ; nee : Pt 1’ 7 uy
i Ji ee a ie ; ; a eh
yy, ey . re eer i.
¥ oe [ ; a ; ee |.
| Be is on x
On ; iy ; 7 aaa ;
bas 7 5 ‘ ey ne +. a uh - : : : i 0 y , rl
a) : 7] 7 ¢ : on a] os |
ey ck 7 7 ' 7 ase. : ‘gy
Rds 7 = , one 2 _ E fal : : : al
> 7 ne Th vr 7 it : _ : : : _ 7 it
i) oa: : : Oar S ns ni ‘ul Fit
A | ; > ' - ‘ - ia
4! : a ; 1 7 VA a aL ves : : 7 7
i : i > : 7 : 7 - j
yarn = ee Le ¥ - : a 7
{ ) ro my, ; iy yi |i
a hy 7) a 7 7 F
‘'. NE rh : , a ; vs ; ms rT on ae
rf, ) rai , Th : " U ; ae ae, VE

os h, : i - 7 ’ Te : : a 7 : 7 ; : 7
| fi = a _ : re ‘ a , a q
| ws | os me
: _ ' 7 a) f.
ae | - ma: rr) 7 = a : a . a
re, rine t; va ae ¥ : r : iis 7 : tm ¢ rere
Te 7 ay 7 ait. - aa eer
it ‘a > on - 7 - ' ah - : i“ 3
Be 7 i 7 : : _ ’ : y : : ; sy 4 a ; F 7 7,
hes fi _ - ' ; at - ny a
hi EE a i ' - ou : ' i " u
= VOras in ’ i] : ‘7 : 7 é "
aa, ' j : 7, F
cai 1 : ' on t
= ie i : U 7 a ® a : t ' - | 7
a y ete _ _ ' - lee vil rp - a
eS q ‘ el. - 7 . a 7 — 7 ie ‘s :
re arias 7 i wa
1 7 - i ae
i, fi 1 me ; i — . 7 : vy lane ~~ mo) <7
ed Ce ws . 7 ; i : on] 7 a ? oa i cdl on oe
: z i) ar m ef ' : 7 : 7 ; ot 4 : ice _ ad i. :
A ta) , i . a ' , i t
: ny ry ew? x j Fa 5 : 2 ; - a 7 ge re
7 - - A° - - . a a
a a ae 8 : A ~ f i oy . t 49 ' i.
‘i i? i ‘ is : o! >  » : ' a 7 A 7 7 is ; a i ae
iv; 7 y nye 5 q ) “a » : » ; - 7 _ 7 ie og - ; fy a a 7
iy 5 hie if 7) ee tpl " | - i alr |
i Aa ic, eo) a “x, 7 a a :
i i ay ip bys : 9 a me +. on 7 xe a : 7 : as : ae
| a j 7 i . :
a aye Ar I A a : : - ow a oo ’ 7 7 7 : a] ; ; " AY i : a si
¥ ‘a Ai iT, ot ae ; i i i%
’ a ig ee al i, : : ‘iy | on AD aa) a wel Y
i a Yh —— y "BS 4 : ry iD
wm 1 { a = ? , : 7,” “ws - - an oy | rt)
a Th A rs eae |
iy, ’ we ’ ae 7 oa 7 ou a A 3 a |
a a o i »! a 7 ib 1) fine ma! oe 3 nl ae } i re te Ph
i Tee A i alld 5 ie re i ” t: ) a ae er in nti ¥
Ag "a . a Ae vi > ee ee , ye ete th 0), > ;
ES
i an , j P A Dy iw ¢, ile ae
My, N a hy fhiy “ * iY Ris on if a me a 1 vad n La 4. ane 0 i‘ -
= lg, ili ue }) bi } 7] Ve wits 4 i ss i wichita ts vn 7 me dull ils an ae
=. ae m me vee i vit) iialljite me ahi | i
aieul) j ae iD rr 4
|

|

|

|

|
]

|
|

‘
:

oe
ej tk

“he oe
ayy

ay <j 7 ¢

% i BS : ‘a

2 c/n a x. > "
Se CO. Ge Lgl sorry ee
a St a! a: IP ai al
ght gi et ae Oca

a:

ap. é
be

ef
2

x

poeta Se SRS Se SS Se ee Sa
Secws!

eee
&

avr

ae

Or
= ™
ao ea
as ore
i,
os 2
* Se
? 2
3 =
=

igh
sgh

mete!

thes

ae

soe: ene we ey — ~
pe ced a ee] SS ta
By ; <
8 . oa ee
~~ i o — — — -
= no —~ ~ ~— ~- —
ts ;
* fa ay a
hae gees. Ay re ‘
ao > == “ —_ —
— * ———* = > —_— a —
wna —— oo —_ = =
= wine we ed
: ‘

% be — i 4
—— a _—_ bad = a. —
_——— a ———* ~ — —

&: “7 i :
| ped > a = ~ —s
ro | te i ey ee
ma, -—_ os — — — —_—,
* 4 pas er ‘egphas

Ce oH ae ns
ne, Pree Tg errs, “ eT

—— — * pots are = — =
— . Loerie. Prem, »-——. — ‘a a -

paomrone ed ~-~, > —— ——s
ns —~ =e vere] QS . Pp .
pesss met -_ < - — —
af ad — Pr ead > pe
at > mae —— ‘ —_ — =
" rr . “er: Pm rs ene dy —_
Pet renee —— . —
eet ag ed eg
jen E nee — mt <1 ——~ ==
ee: : ‘ >
rs — — = or. =
et tee — “
es tg lg : =
— mapiiinil x _
femal _ ~ “i,
— pe
— hs — ~
—— — 7
— _— 5
a,
7 " _

— —
> —
e
— _
— —
— ——

*

ef
