an. bee 2
4 Pgs: Aaa Cages
a3 RS n TR tls
| 4 ‘4 L :
Bie eee y Pg ai 2
4 Fe eh Soe Soe ROS,

ayes

" \E-INCRe
LENIN

GE’ ‘Oy
<4 0 8
a

——
at
1

a
“24

\ an of

_

s

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR, THE YEAR. ENDING JUNE..30

1914

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1915
Pee tse! LOTTA
=: ates HT MONT

| aMmoanite ar 40 YanTa IN

ae nde " peered a

= aomaninee wa OOH Gur GO THOdaH Dauiva sar
“eter (08 aruot OMIGUM HAY SUT Hoe MOITUTIIAy:

E it nn Kaas SAL Wp gasininn | ak oh
erlt: vane ; ‘eae ofit to LORE dolisen Aiw, sonalwsos af

sant tar pci! to Uadad. ash gtomtonl ailt Sead T danse 5s aa

. iianaqe aeit Ww Sacitet Users ott econ gu) ot Somdtad

$ Perey i ri oaildins® edt adit: tage? fixe “jon!

ie Ts ahd avec i Jia! 08 oat se

; oe ac pve ma |
CONTENTS.

Page.

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to

“DIRE Sa A lie he Se en ee eae Saeet  en e Re iii

PE METN GS (0 Sw LITE SEC HOU Nia pa 8 crc ce oes a an ec yuh a Ree? SL tee rayne Fyn wit v

1 TSTRPLE TULSA SS Bert Sa oe ge Gan J Sa eee ak 2G Ay Seat, Sp ee a vi

Gpeeral subjects OL the ARNUALFOpOLG 33.2. oh te ott yee eo bere Gee ix

Oficrals of the Institution and iis; branches: ..2-- 4:76 Foti -2 tS oes yee x

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Bie erica mist tmetNON 450) 2 e= hele ois nro Se Se oe pe eye et tes ee Se 1
Reve ACAO MARU EMG. tos soe eso. ee at ee te ee Leer de Gees tee 1
Phirc SAU ROUO LES CREA Sasa See oe ra eae hrs Race eae c spoken eee eo i)
EASED GONE 150075 2 1 7 pa iA Roa De = cg 2
LITO NON T STS Lc Ee See lle et rn Me Seem Se a Fe Sa Ek me Se 6
Researches and explorations:

iLaneley: Acrodynamical Taboravory =< .). wei. -5:c5- - m-aye occ e cat pec ce = 8
Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies...............-...-- 10
Geologic history of the Appalachian Valley in Maryland.-............. 11
Picisiocene eaye Gepost in Margland oo. es 12
Geological susvey OF PANAMA £6 Beste mains Snyacin cs Seg 2 aoe maine ete 12
Vertebrate fossil remains in Montanas |... 0.0 ee in eee we 13
Ho seer CChAnOGeNEIG UA MIMNGIS.4 28.5. agen soo p Ak. dice ak et we's oo sop 5 < 13
MESHIOSEATE SARA GR VINCUNIA CORSE ae eo ee ee ce a ead a he 14
Expedition to Dutch East Borneo and Cashmere. ...-.........-.---- 15
vie ones tn TO Wipaes ss. ener, on < alone w ape -2 2 ESR ETN AD ae AUR LIP SS 15
Researches under Harriman trust fund... .-....-...4-----------2-2-- 16
Anthropological research in Eastern Asia. ....-...:-...-.1---------- 17
Researches underthe Hodgkins fund... .-.-- 2... . 2. 2222-222 ye ee 17
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station..........-........--- 19
CDE ARGH OOtORAGONME) tae ete ee cia = eons ence Eas soe weeps Sold 19
wmerican scuoolot Archeology im Ching... ....---- ce.-05 2 ean sc ae 20
gel UME ORI e eae Pee Rape gsr Cre eee ey eine pan Seon ge Sede ie ee ai 20
LUTTE NEI gS I ED 5 RCN A NRE Bp US yh ae Need 24
nstLeRniOMAl CONPTESSCS = 2. sa. eo sot ee. Pee ee eet ote. 25
George Washington Memorial Building. ...............205...22-----2000-- 25

ieeiedern ON NIBC URE Cain onan wey ek eonn naa a Nea kee PES oe oo 27

paren or American Mtnnglopy 2.44.2 esc. = 2n2. {She ee ee an ek te: 29

ieetreL onal PKC AMO ER o,. 2). roe ass ee Ae ol vcaeed 31

eiond |, Meolricalealks 525055. 28 tet ee os oes boos ee ae 31

BETO Mh vatcH Observatory: 22 soe de oe <mss ae. acca oe PUP SORE YA Se eS 32

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature........................--.--- 33

pee Rae er mean re eae mee Eee ene <a eens Sn ee F5  Stc e 33

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum. .............-.. 35

2. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology.............-..-- 45
3. Report on the International Exchanges.............-.....-....- 67
4. Report on the National Zoological Park..........-.-.....------ 76
5. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory. ...............--..-- 89
Ge pets. On the WibTAny. sooo hic Jameel eens ced 5 isk oa ees 96
7. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature... 104
Me rtentbeDorl Gi PUDINCAMONS: o- .ntoss op ciceence Geaccs sane cents esse 107
AA CONTENTS.

GENERAL APPENDIX.

The radiation of the sun, by C. G. Abbot........
Modern theories of the sun, by Jean Boslerss:sos:.........---------- De eee Be
The form and constitution of the earth, by Louis B. Stewart............-.-.--
Some remarks on logarithms apropos to their tercentenary, by M. d’Ocagne. . .
mhe consithimon ole atom; by Ash -Hive-ctessioe see sc soso oss o Sel 5rt tee.
Gyrostats and gyrostatic action, by Andrew Gray....-..........-..-5----------
Siabuityeor aeroplanes; by Orville Wright: 58ers etl
The first man-carrying aeroplane capable of sustained free flight, by A. F. Zahm.
Some aspects of industrial chemistry, by L. H. Baekeland......-....-.. SE
Peplosives= Diva lcdiward. ke. O Geom eer aero Sal SSS wins co ES
Climates of geologic time, by Charles Schuchert........................------
COLT OT Ch alGCS a Did eh OLYe a. 25 us seit eS oi ots ep ee ete = ieee ae a ee ce ae -
The geology of the bottom of the seas, by L. de Launay ..
Recent oceanographic researches, by Ch. Gravier...........--..-.----------
The Klondike and Yukon goldfield in 1913, by H. M. Cadell.............----
The history of the discovery of sexuality in plants, by Duncan S. Johnson... -.
Problems and progress in plant pathology, by L. R. Jones.....-...-.....----
Plant-autographs and their revelations, by J. C. Bose..............-----.----
The National Zoological Park and its inhabitants, by Frank Baker.........-..
The habits and behavior of the herring gull, by R. M. Strong........-.-.-.--
Notes on some effects of extreme drought in Waterberg, South Africa, by Eugéne
Je PA TNT 22 FSG le ae a a Sc RL OS enh A ee
Homeeotic regeneration of the antenne in a Phasmid or walking-stick, by H. O.
Sy Cu WENT FA far 6 53) oT 7 is Sek ett Ee NEN 2 ne
Latent life: its nature and relations to certain theories of contemporary biology,
nye Apu py CCCUICK cere cnet cepa yee ite cialis Oe gas BS oo orate we
The early inhabitants of western Asia, by Felix v. Luschan ....-..-...-..-..--.-
iE xeavyationsiat Abydos, by, Edouard: Nayilles sc. ooo ee ee oc pes wp np -
An examination of Chinese bronzes, by John C. Ferguson. - ss
The réle of depopulation, of deforestation, and of manera gt in ine deandienaa of
Certain nations. ny, Helix Kegmatltsc. tar. ascieciiclsers cere ccc anseick so saya
hestory ‘ot the chin, by: Louis Rovimsonse <i wesc riety <p <5!) -gaie == 3 ESS
Recent Agualeaneains! in the art of illumination, by Preston 8. Millar ROT EE NET
The loom and spindle: past, present, and future, by Luther Hooper.......-..
The demonstration play school of 1918, by Clark W. Hetherington...........-
Sketch of the life of Eduard Suess (1831-1914), by Pierre Termier...........
List OF PLATES.

SECRETARY’S REpoRtT: Page.
Plates 1, 2 (facing each other). 8
1 P/N ea eo ane ak ee ae 26
ete Sie ts era hd SOE 84
LETS VESNS  ege  a 92
RADIATION OF SuN (Abbot):
Platestles dence ok Sh eon saree 138
LEN Fess) 30m ahs Sa Ek ae 8 2 144
THEORIES OF Sun (Bosler):
1 EDGY 7s i OR a a 154
LocariruMs (d’Ocagne):
Peles ree te ea bas Oe era 176
Gyrostats (Gray):
1 SLES P Sys al Nee Se ee a ee 196
ALES CS SS SE ene ee a 200
LASERS Sie he eee eles Se 204
12] EN Sf a a ee 206
Man-CarryiIng AEROPLANE
(Zahm):
Phen a4 Mix Porsoreagh. 94s 218
Plsteg SS. Saeco w nsiseeuicie 22 220
Expiosives (O’ Hern):
| GS RR ees Sey ae 250
| PLE EISS Se capelees - Apa rap me mye he 256
LUGE S Sy ee 260
LOE PECL) fj Se oe ne eee oS 264
Pieocuroic Hatoks (Joly):
Pei lie tee ae 318
Dies oo seeh = oe eens mane 320
KionpIkE GOLDFIELD (Cadell):
PIRES eto as oe see SL 366
BLEU TEN 9 2 SN eel en ie a 372
Med oe as As fo Woe 8 oe os ae 381
ZoowoaicaL Park (Baker):
Plate 1 (colored map)......... 445
LES Ne pre Eee 446
LELIN ash Os Os a See a ee Ee 448
RL aESH Geers oe 5 pa) eer 450
13] UPEyS tee He Sapam cn et Sa a 452
Bintes 10-13 32-4 ose. os os 454
bates ie tb ont en cee aio 2 ste 456
PlatesullGml (nets Gases ot od See. 458
BLD S09 [ce Ue et ee a 460

ZooLoGicAL PARK—Continued.

| 2d CAH a a 462
Plgtenete2oe ects seen LY 464
Plates G21. oso ec 466
Plates osr20) st hoch oa staeee2 468
inten SONI a sue a ok ae 470
Lee on DE ee ee ee 472
Platesiab, Sie-bassoct ashe. a ee 474
Plates sotto 2 eas 2 ae 476
HERRING GULL (Strong):
1 ef /el ey J cn ee ce 480
1 Ey relc oe See aa OO 484
lates DuG2 ooo ree eee 486
LF) cg feo eee, a 492
Biates SO SES Ae 498
REGENERATION OF ANTENN2#
(Schmit-Jensen):
1 EAI FS) 101 8 Wea RENO ow BE 530
INHABITANTS OF WzSTERN ASIA
(Luschan):
i GF sys i aS eh a 564
J SIC EES ey mee Aes, an a ea eave 566
PS TER OMS S46 TS. See 568
PAS RON 10k. S200 soe. te Ae 574
Pier Ge eee 2 Se) ok 576
Asypos (Naville):
Plates dias 2 Psa sean ee 582
1 E5120 so neohe es ee aig = aN 584
CHINESE Bronzes (Ferguson):
Peg esi Gt eee en eee 592
Story oF Cun (Robinson):
IP iatepyie sis ous te eos ro 610
ILLUMINATION (Millar):
EAB eve tpl LO] Sea cee i Syed ie 618
bs] Ee LA ARERR pee 624
Loom AND SPINDLE (Hooper):
| EI CY ESS Oar she, eh ee are ee a 632
d EIS CISNS pete Eek SNE 642
MAME tee oie Ss as See 646
biben a Gask = eerie se see ee oe 652
Picton sete) 2250 woes Fk 670
PIA pe MNOS ect e ks see er ee er Gin

Vil
Pooper cl tals *

ee aia ma

err, & He

i

Ne a a te et ak ‘

“ile
/

: ; eeern 0s

ie oo) ah 73 }

greed craters f 3d = : i “ i oan ” uy “e bok iy r) i
dike sak iat

ete: er e Haaiat
sy on al eadet ef

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1914.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1914, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for the
year ending June 30, 1914.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1914.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and other engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These

memours relate chiefly to the calendar year 1914.
Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1914.

Presidina officer ex officio —Woopvrow Wuson, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—Epwarp Dovatass Wurre, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Woopvrow Wizson, President of the United States.
Tuomas R. MarsHatt, Vice President of the United States.
Epwarp Dovatass Wurst, Chief Justice of the United States.
WiLLtIAM JENNINGS Bryan, Secretary of State.
Wiu1am Gisss McApoo, Secretary of the Treasury.
LinpLeY Miniter Garrison, Secretary of War.
JAMES CLARK McReyno tps, Attorney General.
ALBERT SIDNEY BuRLESON, Postmaster General. |
JosepHuS DanteE.s, Secretary of the Navy.
FRANKLIN Knicutr LANE, Secretary of the Interior.
«Davin FrANKuIN Houston, Secretary of Agriculture.
WrittAmM Cox ReEpFIELD, Secretary of Commerce.
Wi11AmM Baucnor Wison, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Epwarp Dovatass Waite, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Tuomas R. MArsHAtt, Vice President of the United States.
Henry Casot Lopae, Member of the Senate.
Wuutam J. Srons, Member of the Senate.
Henry Frencuw Hows, Member of the Senate.
Scorr Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives.
Maurice Connouty, Member of the House of Representatives.
Ernest W. Roserts, Member of the House of Representatives.
Anprew D. Wuire, citizen of New York.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C,
GrEOoRGE Gray, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES |. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Joun B. HenpeErson, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.
CHARLES W. FarrBanks, citizen of Indiana.
Executive committee.—(—————_), ALEXANDER GRAHAM Be tx, Maurice CoNNOLLY.
Secretary of the Institution.—Cuar.Les D. Waucorr.
Assistant secretary in charge of the National Musewm.—RicHarD RATHBUN.
Chief clerk.— Harry W. Dorsey.
Accountant and disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.
Editor.—A. Howarp CLark.
Assistant librarian.—Pavut Brocoxertt.
Property clerk.—J. H. Hr.
x
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. XI

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio—CHarRLES D. Watcort, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Assistant secretary in charge-—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators —Witu1amM H. Hotmrs, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—R. 8. BasstEr, A. Howarp Cuiark, F. W. Crarke, F. V. Covitez,
W. H. Dati, CHEstER G. GILBERT, W. H. Hotmes, WAtrEeR Hovuga, L. O. Howarp,
AueS Hrpuiéxa, Freperick L. Lewron, GeorGE C. Maynarp, G. P. MERRILL,
Gerrit 8. Minter, Jr., Ricnarp Ratuspun, RosBert Ripeway, LEONHARD
STEJNEGER.

Associate curators.—J. C. CRAWFoRD, W. R. Maxon, Davip WuirTeE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. Homes.

Chief of correspondence and documents. RANDOLPH I. GEARE.

Disbursing agent.—W. I. Apams.

Chief of exhibits (Biology).—James E. BENEpIcT.

Superintendent of construction and labor.—J. 8. GoLpsmirH.

Editor—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—N. P. ScuppDER.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILu1E.

Registrar.—S. C. Brown.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist-in-charge.—F. W. Hopae.

Ethnologists.—J. WALTER FEwkEs, J. N. B. Hewirr, F. W. Hopae, Francis
La FiLescue, TrRuMAN MicHetson, JAMES Mooney, Matinpa Coxre STEVENSON,
JoHn R. Swanton.

Special ethnologist—Lro J. FRACHTENBERG.

Honorary philologist.—FRanz Boas.

Editor —JosErH G. GURLEY..

Tibrarian.—E.ita Leary.

Illustrator —Dr LANcEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.
Superintendent.—FRANK BAKER.
Assistant superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBor.
Aid.—F. E. Fow te, Jr.
Bolometric assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—LEONARD ©, GUNNELL.
ae EN

teh) Pig eRe

WOON EE VOLT

; ay
rae ~y Ae) CE VENS
UA rheer OPO S s

arvisna /
ime ae
vo yt i
ma he T- anr. Ht"

“a8 “10h Garey’ wera p10 ry
aa a. ra

> “(i

REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CHARLES D. WALCOTT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING FUNE 30, 1914.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrnTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith a report on the
operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, including work placed by Congress
under the direction of the Board of Regents in the United States
National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, and the United States Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper
and briefly summarizes the operations of its several branches, while
the appendices contain detailed reports by the assistant secretary
and others directly in charge of various activities. The reports on
operations of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology will also be published as independent volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice President and the
Chief Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three Mem-
bers of the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives,
and six citizens, “two of whom shall be resident in the city of Wash-
ington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no
two of them of the same State.”

In regard to the personnel of the board, it becomes my sad duty
to record the death on December 22, 1913, of Representative Irvin

73176°—sm 1914——1 a}
9 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

S. Pepper, and of Senator Augustus O. Bacon, who died February
14, 1914. Representative Maurice Connolly has been appointed to
succeed Mr. Pepper and Senator Henry French Hollis to succeed
Senator Bacon. Representative Ernest W. Roberts has been ap-
pointed as successor to Representative John Dalzell, whose term of
office as Member of Congress had expired.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor ;
Thomas R. Marshall, Vice President of the United States; Henry
Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; Henry French Hollis, Member
of the Senate; William J. Stone, Member of the Senate; Scott Fer-
ris, Member of the House of Representatives; Maurice Connolly,
Member of the House of Representatives; Ernest W. Roberts, Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives; Andrew D. White, citizen of
New York; Alexander Graham Bell, citizen of Washington, D. C.;
George Gray, citizen of Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of
Massachusetts; John B. Henderson, jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.;
and Charles W. Fairbanks, citizen of Indiana.

At its meeting on January 15, 1914, the board filled a vacancy in
the Executive Committee by the election of Hon. Maurice Connolly.

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents, adjourned from
December 11, 1913, was held on January 15, 1914, and the proceed-
ings of the meeting have been printed as usual for the use of the
Regents, while such important matters acted upon as are of public
interest are reviewed under appropriate heads in the present report
of the secretary. The annual financial report of the Executive Com-
mittee has also been issued in the usual form, and a detailed state-
ment of disbursements from Government appropriations under the
direction of the Institution for the maintenance of the National
Museum, the National Zoological Park, and other branches will be
submitted to Congress by the secretary in the usual manner in com-
pliance with the law.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The “ increase of knowledge” is one of the fundamental objects of
the Smithsonian Institution, and one of the first acts of the Board
of Regents in 1847 was to formulate a general plan of operations to
carry out that purpose. Among the examples of lines of work for
which appropriations were to be made from time to time were the
following:

(1) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the problem
of American storms.

(2) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mathematical,

and topographical surveys, to collect material for the formation of a physical
atlas of the United States.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3°

(3) Solution or experimental problems, such as a new determination of the
weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity and of light, chemical analyses
of soils and plants, collection and publication of articles of science accumulated
in the offices of the Government.

(4) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral, and

political subjects.

(5) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history.

(6) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different races
of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of the mounds
and other remains of the ancient people of our country.

It has been the aim of the Institution throughout its history to
accomplish as much as practicable in all the fields of research above
enumerated, and the secretaries of the Smithsonian have in their
turn been chosen by the regents with that end in view. The first
secretary, Professor Henry, was a physicist, and researches during
his administration were largely in the domain of physics.

The present United States Weather Bureau is an outgrowth of
the system of meteorological observations and warnings established
by the Smithsonian Institution. In 1847 an appropriation was
made “ for instruments and other expenses connected with meteoro-
logical observations.” The instruments thus secured were dis-
tributed throughout the country, and within two years the volunteer
observers reporting to the Institution numbered about 400. In 1849
Henry realized the value of the electric telegraph as “a ready means
of warning the more northern and southern observers to be on the
watch for the first appearance of an advancing storm,” and there was
inaugurated a system of daily telegraphic weather reports, a system
which was continued under the direction of the Institution until the
beginning of the Civil War. On a large map in the Smithsonian
building the weather over a considerable part of the country, accord-
ing to reports received at 10 o’clock each day, was indicated by
suitable symbols.

Under the second secretary, Professor Baird, biological science
was one of the principal fields of research. It was during his admin-
istration that there was organized the United States Fish Commis-
sion for the study of the food fisheries of the United States, and
Prof. Baird served as head of that commission until his death.
The organization later became the United States Bureau of Fish-
eries of the Department of Commerce. Prof. Baird took a deep inter-
est in the National Museum, and under his direction there was
erected a building for the exhibition of the valuable collections ac-
quired from the International Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876.

Professor Langley, the third secretary, was both an astronomer and
a physicist. But to his deep devotion to those professions may be
added a broad view of the entire field of human knowledge. It was
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

during the administration of Langley that the Astrophysical Observ-
atory was established to carry forward researches begun by him
many years before. And the National Zoological Park, largely the
outgrowth of investigations on living animals under the direction
of Assistant Secretary Goode, was likewise founded during Langley’s
administration. To Langley himself the world owes a debt for his
discoveries of the principles of aerial navigation and for his demon-
stration to the world on May 6, 1896, by the successful flight of an
experimental machine, that an aeroplane heavier than air could be
propelled through the air by its own power.

It would be interesting, were this the proper place, to review some
of the results of the many important researches and explorations by
the Institution in the last 60 years. The influence of the Institu-
tion is world-wide; through its international exchange service alone
it has been in correspondence with more than 60,000 individuals and
learned societies in the United States and practically in every land
on the globe. During its entire existence there has been an unbroken
record of friendly intercourse with every agency devoted to the
encouragement of learning.

The extent of the activities of the Institution is limited only by
the amount of the funds available. During recent years its private
income has been supplemented on several occasions by friends of
the Institution who have generously provided the means for carry-
ing on certain explorations and lines of research, but opportunities
for further important work constantly arise which must be declined
or temporarily held in abeyance. Some of the projects proposed are
such as could not properly be carried on through Government appro-
priation, but which the Smithsonian Institution could readily under-
take were the means available.

The Institution was founded by the bequest of James Smithson,
and from time to time it has been the recipient of other bequests and
of gifts of various sums, the largest of which was the gift of Mr.
Thomas G. Hodgkins, establishing the Hodgkins Fund. The Smith-
sonian permanent fund now aggregates a little more than a million
dollars. A number of bequests, now awaiting settlement, will even-
tually result in considerably increasing the present fund. Among
these I may mention—

Poore bequest—By the terms of the will of the late George W.
Poore, of Lowell, Mass., who died December 17, 1910, the Smithso-
nian Institution becomes his residuary legatee. As mentioned in my
1910 report, the estate, estimated at about $40,000, is bequeathed
under the condition that, the income of this sum should be added to
the principal until a total of $250,000 should have been reached,
and that then the income only should be used for the purposes for
which the Institution was created.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

As a reason for making this bequest to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Mr. Poore in his will says:

I make this gift not so much because of its amount as because I hope it will
prove an example for other Americans to follow, by supporting and encouraging
so wise and beneficent an institution as I believe the Smithsonian Institution
to be, and yet it has been neglected and overlooked by American citizens.

The affairs of this estate are being adjusted by the executor as
rapidly as circumstances will permit.

Reid bequest.—In 1903 the Institution was informed of a proposed
bequest to the Institution from Mr. Addison T. Reid, of Brooklyn,
N. Y., to found a chair of biology in memory of the testator’s grand-
father, Asher Tunis. The bequest was subject to the condition that
the income was to be paid in three equal shares to certain named
legatees until their death, when the principal of the estate (then
estimated at $10,000), with accumulations, was to come to the Insti-
tution. One of the beneficiaries having died, the trust created for
her benefit, amounting to $4,795.91, was received by the Institution
during the past year and deposited to the credit of the permanent
fund in the United States Treasury.

Loeb bequest.—By the will of Morris Loeb, of New York City, the
Smithsonian Institution is made a residual legatee and is to receive
a one-tenth share of the estate remaining upon the death of the
testator’s wife. This legacy is to be used for the furtherance of
knowledge in the exact sciences.

Morris Loeb, chemist, was born at Cincinnati May 23, 1863, and
died October 8, 1912. He graduated from Harvard University in
1883 with the degree of A. B. and received the degree of Ph. D. from
the University of Berlin in 1887 and Sc. D. from Union University
in 1911. In 1891 he became professor of chemistry at the New York
University. He was vice president of the American Chemical So-
ciety, and a member of the German Chemical Society and other sci-
entific bodies.

Lucy Hunter Baird bequest—Miss Baird, daughter of the late
Spencer Fullerton Baird, Secretary of the Institution, died June 19,
1913. Besides giving to the National Museum and the Smithsonian
Institution certain books, manuscripts, and other articles, the will
of Miss Baird provides that upon the release of any portion of
the trust estate by the death of the person entitled to the income
thereof, said trust estate shall be given “ to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in trust as a fund to be known as ‘the Spencer Fullerton Baird
fund,’ the interest shall be devoted, under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution to the expenses in whole or in part of a
scientific exploration and biological research or for the purchase of
specimens of natural objects or archeological specimens.”
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Chamberlain bequest—In 1886 the National Museum received by
bequest of Dr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, an unrivaled collection
of fresh-water mussels; and in 1894 a collection of gems and precious
stones, also made by Dr. Lea, was bequeathed to the Museum by his
daughter, Frances Lea Chamberlain, wife of Rey. Dr. Leander T.
Chamberlain. Mrs. Chamberlain had taken a deep interest in her
father’s collections and had added materially thereto. Upon her
death in 1894, Dr. Chamberlain assumed the trust and until his
death in May, 1913, made large additions, particularly to the collec-
tion of gems and precious stones and in consequence of his gifts
and collaboration was appointed honorary associate in mineralogy
in the Museum.

Tn his will, Dr. Chamberlain bequeathed $25,000 to the Smithson-
ian Institution to be known as the “Frances Lea Chamberlain
fund,” the income of which shall be used for “ promoting the in-
crease and the scientific value and usefulness of the Isaac Lea collec-
tion of gems and gem material,” and the additional sum of $10,000
as a fund, the income of which shall be used for promoting the sci-
entific value and usefulness of the Isaac Lea collection of mollusks.

Sprague bequest.—Mr. Joseph White Sprague, of Louisville, Ky.,
died in Italy in June, 1900. His will provides that 85 per cent of the
total income of the estate is to be distributed among certain devisees
until their death, and then to several of their relatives for 20 years
after the death of the last devisee, when the trust expires by limita-
tion, and is to be paid to the Smithsonian Institution and to be known
as “The Sprague Fund.” Its purpose is to best promote the advance-
ment of the physical sciences, and only one-half of each annual
income is to be used, the other half to be added to the principal of
the estate. In 1901, the estate was estimated to be worth $200,000.

Fitzgerald bequest.—The will of Mr. Riter Fitzgerald, of Phila-
delphia, who died in 1911, makes certain definite bequests and leaves
all the rest, residue and remainder of the estate, to his executors in
trust, the net income to be paid quarterly to his niece, and should she
die without leaving a child or children, the principal of the estate
and interest accrued thereon is to be given “to the United States
National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.”
This part of the estate is appraised at between $12,000 and $13,000.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

Bequest.or James! Smithson, S465 ses ee ee eee $515, 169. 00
Residuary legacy of James Smithson, 1867_-__-__-____________ as 26, 210. 63
Deposits ofesayvinesvot income; dSG (222 = eee ee See ee eee 108, 620. 37
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

Bequest of James blamiltons Asti). 2 $1, 000
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895____________ 1, 000

—- $2, 000. 00
Bequest LOL STNeCOR Ean el StS SO nas a sa de 2 BO OS A Te 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 188i ——-- ==—- == 51, 500. 00
CoO PHOMmasiG-sHOGekINGs TCO Mie es 8 Spal ales ee i ol ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894_____-_____ 8, 000. 00
Deposit Lrom-savines of income; A9OBLELE ee eG See? 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1907__________________ 7, 918. 69
Wenposif from savings-of incomes TOYS 2 EU meee ee 636. 94
Bequest of William Jones Rhees, 1913220) 020250005 2) 251. 95
Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert Stan-

(Gore AWWA ))acd ne ee Ee ie ae ere 9, 692. 42
Bequest of-Addison) TiReid, Howat Se te Oe ie Od fie 4, 795. 91
Deposit of savings from income Avery bequest, 1914____-_-_ 204. 09

Total of fund deposited in the United States Treasury_____ 960, 500. 00
OTHER RESOURCES,
Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value)____________ 42, 000. 00
Ota Permanent eos aes aoe Se 1, 002, 500. 00

With the aid of the first installment of $4,795.91 of a bequest
from the late Addison T. Reid and a small deposit from savings of
income from the Avery bequest, the permanent fund now, for the first
time, exceeds $1,000,000.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest: at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions
of the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$90,952.54, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent foun-
dation, $58,994.29; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $17,554.20; first installment of a bequest from the late
Addison T. Reid, $4,795.91; and from other miscellaneous sources,
en all of which was deposited in the Treasury of the United

tates.

With the balance of $33,641.40 on July 1, 1913, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $124,623.94. The disbursements
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $94,063.81, leaving a balance of $30,560.13 on
deposit June 30, 1914, in the United States Treasury and in cash.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1914:
PRGA Gare Us Tee CTD NSS 9 a a ek $32, 000

ATS SVOSHT ICT OCT EY a Pkg gS Oe DY a age a es IE KG
AR IEOU IY Srealla@ DSETVanO Lye ee ee eee ee BO Bal ee ge 13, 000
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

National Museum:

Hurniture; and: fixturess=— = Sane sae eee Peas ade tea8 Sealey $50, 000

Te tamuiboyse Gnavo lb iea e ayes ee 50, 000
PreservationsoL collections. 22 = 2 See eee ee ee 300, 000

1 0 ec key RP a eg 0 SAR AR Sy ee ee ees ee ee re 2, 000
ROStACe Be 2 ee ee ee a oO 500

PS Wilching MePaieS= ketene AE ei ie open ee 10, 000
Bookstacks for Government bureau libraries_——_-.--+=__-_-+~-____—_ 15, 000
National ‘Zooloricall Parka. — =. = svgiey Soc he oe ee ee 100, 000
Readjustment of boundaries, National Zoological Park ——-_-___~------- 107, 200
international Catalocueof Scientific Miterabhure = 25s 22 28 eee Se 7, 500
Op Yay ees) AeA CH Rg ea he eg A RE Dl 729, 200

In addition to the above specific amounts to be disbursed by the
Institution, there was included under the general appropriation for
public printing and binding an allotment of $76,200 to cover the
cost of printing and binding the annual report and other Govern-
ment publications issued by the Institution, and to be disbursed by
the Public Printer.

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

During the past year the Institution has continued to carry on
investigations in various lines throughout the world by means of
small allotments from its funds. It has also accomplished a great
deal in the way of exploration and research through the generosity
of friends of the Institution, who have contributed funds for special
work or provided opportunities for participation in explorations
which they had undertaken personally or through the aid of others.
Each year, however, the Institution is obliged to forego oppor-
tunities for important investigations through lack of sufficient funds.

IT can here only briefly mention some of the work in progress
under the Smithsonian Institution proper during the past year, while
accounts of activities connected with the Astrophysical Observatory,
the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the United States National
Museum are given in other parts of this report by those in direct
charge of those branches of the Institution.

THE LANGLEY AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

By resolution of the Regents on May 1, 1918, the secretary was
authorized to reopen the Smithsonian Institution laboratory for the
study of aerodynamics and to be known as the Langley Aero-
dynamical Laboratory. The functions of the laboratory were de-
fined to be the study of the problems of aerodromics, particularly
those of aerodynamics, with such research and experimentation as
may be necessary to increase the safety and effectiveness of aerial
locomotion for the purposes of commerce, national defense, and the
welfare of man.
“bL6L ‘6 ANNL
&) *N SLYOdSGNOWNVH ‘VYNayM 3NV7] YSAO LHDIT4 NI ‘SLVOT4 HLIM GaddINOFZ (EO61-868l LING) AWOYGOUSYW ONIAYYVO-NVIN ASTONVI

o|5 eH /akal ‘poday s Aiejainag—'"p| 6]. Uodey ueluosy}IWS
“pl6L ‘o anne
“A "N ‘LYOdSGNOWNVH ‘V4N3Y4 SV YSAO LHOIT4 NI ‘SLVOT4 HLIM GaddINOF (€O61-S6S8l LING) AWONGOYSY ONIAYYVO-NV|\) ASTONV]

eo atvad ‘Hodey s Aivjainag—'p] 61 ‘Hoday uejuosy}iWs
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

The Regents also authorized the secretary to appoint an advisory
committee; to add, as means are provided, other laboratories and
agencies; to group them into a bureau organization; and to secure
the cooperation with them of the Government and other agencies.

In accordance with the above general plan an advisory committee
was organized at a meeting convened at the Institution on May 23,
1913. The official status, organization, agencies, resources, and
facilities of this committee were set forth in a statement in my last
report.

The first year’s work of the laboratory was to arrange a com-
prehensive program of operations, devise ways and means of carry-
ing on investigations and publishing reports, conduct such active
experiments as were possible with the means immediately available,
and to secure and arrange in the library the best aeronautical
literature.

The reports of the committee thus far published have appeared
as individual papers in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
The first of these recounts the organization of the advisory commit-
tee and the resources of the Langley laboratory. The first technical
publication sets forth the results of experiments made at the model
tank at the Washington Navy Yard. Another report describes the
organization and equipment of the leading aeronautical laboratories
of England, France, and Germany. Some of the reports of the
committee are as yet confidential or incomplete. The library has
been furnished with the chief aeronautic periodicals and the best
books thus far published.

The rehabilitation and successful launching of the Langley aero-
plane (called “aerodrome” by Prof. Langley), constructed over
a decade ago, was accomplished in May, 1914. The machine was
shipped from the Langley laboratory to the Curtiss aeroplane fac-
tory in April. It was recanvassed and provided with hydroaero-
plane floats, and was launched on Lake Keuka on May 28. With
Mr. Glenn H. Curtiss as pilot it ran easily over the water, rose on
level wing, and flew in steady poise 150 feet. Subsequent short
flights were made in order to secure photographs of the craft in the
air. Then Mr. Curtiss was authorized, in order to make prolonged
flights without overtaxing the bearings of the Langley propulsion
fixtures, to install in its place a standard Curtiss motor and pro-
peller. At the close of the fiscal year the experiments were still
making satisfactory progress.

The tests thus far made have shown that the late Secretary Lang-
ley had succeeded in building the first aeroplane capable of sustained
free flight with a man. It is hoped that further trials will disclose
the advantages of the Langley type of machine. It may be recalled
that this man-carrying aeroplane was begun in 1898 for the War
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Department, and in the interest of the national defense. It was
built on the design of the model machine which, on May 6, 1896,
first demonstrated to the world that an aeroplane heavier than air
could be propelled through the air by its own power. The large
machine was completed in 1903, but its actual flight was at that time
hindered by injuries sustained through defects in the launching
apparatus.

The numerous and comprehensive aerotechnical investigations
planned for the Langley laboratory can be successfully carried out
only when increased funds are available. Properly equipped and
endowed, the laboratory would serve as a national aeronautical in-
stitute suitable for conducting the aerotechnical investigations and
tests required by the Government and the aeronautical industries of
this country.

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES.

In continuation of my previous geological researches in the Cana-
dian Rockies, I revisited during the field season of 1913 the Robson
Peak district, in British Columbia and Alberta, and the region about
Field, British Columbia. At the latter place I met the members of
the International Geological Congress.

On this trip Robson Peak was approached from the west side in
order to study the local geological section, one of the finest in the
world. From the west foot of Robson Peak, Whitehorn Peak rises
on the north to a height of 7,850 feet above Lake Kinney, and on the
east the cliffs of Robson rise tier above tier from the surface of the
lake to the summit of the peak, a vertical distance of 9,800 feet.

From beneath the base of the mountain at Lake Kinney the strata
curve gently outward, so that upwards of 4,000 feet in thickness of
beds that are beneath Robson Peak are exposed in their extension to
the west and south.

Owing to exceptionally good climatic conditions the season of 1913
proved unusually favorable for studying Robson Peak. Frequently
in the early morning the details of the snow slopes and bedded rocks
on the summit of the peak were beautifully outlined, but toward
evening the mists, driven in from the warm currents of the Pacific,
300 miles away, shrouded the mountain from view.

From the west slopes of Titkana Peak, east of the great Hunga
Glacier, a wonderful view is obtained of the snow fields and falling
glaciers east and north of Robson Peak. The glacial streams come
tumbling down the slopes and often disappear beneath the glacier to
reappear at its foot with the volume of a river.

At Field, British Columbia, work was continued at the great
middle Cambrian fossil quarry, where a large collection of specimens
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2

was secured. It was necessary to do much heavy blasting to reach
the finest fossils which occur in the lower layers of rock.

The collection of 1913 contains a number of very important addi-
tions to this ancient fauna and many fine specimens of species found
in 1912. A report on these collections is now in preparation.

An illustrated account of my previous exploration in the Robson
Peak district was published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections, Vol. 57, No. 12, and a paper with panoramic view, entitled
“The Monarch of the Canadian Rockies,” appeared in the National
Geographic Magazine, May, 1913. Three other reports of my studies
were published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, entitled
“New Lower Cambrian Subfauna,” “ Dikelocephalus and other
genera of the Dikelocephaline,” and “The Cambrian Faunas of
Eastern Asia.” A report on “The Cambrian and its Problems in the
Cordilleran Region” is now in press in a new volume of the Dana
commemorative course at Yale University. The investigations dis-
cussed in this paper were continued in a report, “ Pre-Cambrian Al-
gonkian Algal Flora,” in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
and preparations were made for further study of the subject in the
Rocky Mountains of Montana during the field season of 1914. This
was successfully carried out with the acquisition of several tons of
specimens.

GEOLOGIC HISTORY OF THE APPALACHIAN VALLEY IN MARYLAND.

Dr. R. S. Bassler, of the National Museum, spent a month during
the summer of 1913 in the Appalachian Valley of Maryland and the
adjoining States, studying the postpaleozoic geologic history of the
region, as indicated by the present surface features. His studies,
which were under the joint auspices of the United States National
Museum and the Maryland Geological Survey, were in continuation
of work carried on during the previous summer, when the sedimen-
tary rocks of the region were mapped in detail.

Since Carboniferous times western Maryland has been above the
sea, and its rocks have accordingly been subjected to a long period
of aerial erosion. During Jurassic time the area remained stationary
for so long a period that the surface of the land in the Appalachian
province was reduced to a rolling plain. Later uplift raised this
plain still higher above sea level, and in Maryland only remnants of
the old surface are preserved in the flat sky line of the highest moun-
tains. This ancient plain, or Schooley peneplain, as it is termed, is
well preserved on the top of the Blue Ridge.

A second great period of erosion occurred in early Tertiary times,
the effects of which were chiefly in the Appalachian Valley proper,
where the erosion is indicated by a pronounced plain at an elevation
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

of about 750 feet. This plain was formed only on the softer Paleozoic
rocks, and, because of its prominence near Harrisburg, Pa., is known
as the Harrisburg peneplain. Conococheague Creek traverses the
Harrisburg peneplain in Maryland, and has dissected it considerably,
but the even sky line of the ancient plain is still clearly evident.

Other factors in the geologic history of Maryland are recorded
in the well-defined gravel terraces along the major streams of the
area and in great alluvial fans of large and small bowlders, spread-

ing out at the foot of the larger mountains and sometimes reaching a
depth of 150 feet.

PLEISTOCENE CAVE DEPOSIT IN MARYLAND.

As the results of a further examination of the Pleistocene cave de-
posit near Cumberland, Md., by Mr. J. W. Gidley, of the National
Museum, many new forms were added to the collection, and much
better material obtained of several species represented only by frag-
ments of jaws in the first collection. The series now includes more
than 300 specimens, representing at least 40 distinct species of mam-
mals, many of which are extinet. Among the better preserved speci-
mens are several nearly complete skulls and lower jaws. The more
important animals represented are two species of bears, two species
of a large extinct peccary, a wolverine, a badger, a martin, two porcu-
pines, a woodchuck, and the American elandlike antelope.

Other species represented by more fragmentary material include
the mastodon, tapir, horse, and beaver, besides several species of the
smaller rodents, shrews, bats, and others.

This strange assemblage of fossil remains occurs hopelessly inter-
mingled and comparatively thickly scattered through a more or less
unevenly hardened mass of cave clays and breccias, which completely
filled one or more small chambers of a limestone cave, the material,
together with the bones, evidently having come to their final resting
place through an ancient opening at the surface a hundred feet or
more above their present location. The deposit is exposed at the
bottom of a deep railroad cut which first brought to hght this ancient
bone deposit and incidentally made access to the fossils comparatively
easy.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF PANAMA.

A statement was made in my report for last year that an allot-
ment had been made from the Institution’s funds toward the ex-
penses of an investigation of the geology of Panama. This work is in
progress under the joint auspices of the Isthmian Canal Commis-
sion, the United States Geological Survey, and the Smithsonian
Institution. The general plan includes a systematic study of the
physiography, stratigraphy and structural geology, geologic history,
geologic correlation, mineral resources (including coal, oil, and other
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 183;

fields), petrography and paleontology of the Canal Zone, and of as
much of the adjacent areas of the Isthmian region as is feasible.
Upon the completion of the work the Institution will print a gen-
eral account of the results, and later there will be published a de-
tailed report of the geological data of the Isthmus and adjoining
regions.
VERTEBRATE FOSSIL REMAINS IN MONTANA.

During the summer of 1913 Mr. Charles W. Gilmore, of the
National Museum, headed an expedition for the purpose of obtain-
ing a representative collection from northwestern Montana.

A camp was established on Milk River, on the Blackfeet Indian
Reservation, and four weeks were spent there in collecting, the work
being confined entirely to the Upper Cretaceous (Belly River beds)
as exposed in the bad lands for 10 miles along this stream. The camp
was then moved some 50 miles south on the Two Medicine River, and
two weeks were spent working in the same geological formation.
Between 500 and 600 separate fossil bones were obtained, many of
them of large size. The most notable discovery was a new Cera-
topsian or horned dinosaur, the smallest of its kind known. There
were portions of five individuals of this animal recovered, represent-
ing nearly all parts of the skeleton, making it possible to mount a
composite skeleton for exhibition. Although Ceratopsian fossils
were first discovered in the Rocky Mountain region in 1855, and por-
tions of a hundred or more skeletons have been collected, this is the
first individual to be found having a complete articulated tail and
hind foot. It thus contributes greatly to our knowledge of the
skeletal anatomy of this interesting group of extinct reptiles.

Another find was a partial skeleton of one of the Trachodont or
duck-billed dinosaurs recently described from specimens obtained
in Canada, and its discovery in Montana greatly extends its known
geographical and geological range. Less perfect skeletons of car-
nivorous and armored dinosaurs, turtles, crocodiles, and ganoid
fishes were also obtained.

FOSSIL ECHINODERMS IN ILLINOIS.

The special field explorations maintained by Mr. Frank Springer,
associate in paleontology in the United States National Museum,
were continued during the season of 1913 by his private collector,
Frederick Braun. The purpose of these explorations is to obtain
additional material for use in Mr. Springer’s monographs upon the
fossil crinoidea, now in course of preparation, but they also result
in important accessions of excellent specimens for the completion
of the exhibition series in the halls of Invertebrate Paleontology in
the National Museum.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

The investigations of the past summer were confined to the Kas-
kaskia rocks of Monroe and Randolph Counties, Ill. They were
systematically carried on in connection with the geological work
for the State of Illinois, in progress at the same time under the
direction of Prof. Weller, in order to have the benefit of accurate
determinations of the horizons from which the collections were
made, with reference to the several subordinate formations into
which the Kaskaskia of that region is divided. In this way it was
hoped to correct some confusion as to the stratigraphic relation
of a number of species described in the geological reports of
Tllinois and Iowa. The operations were successful in this respect,
and at the same time six large boxes of fine specimens were obtained.
Among the specimens there are a number of slabs covered with
erinoids not hitherto found in that formation in an excellent state
of preservation, a portion of one slab containing 22 specimens of
9 different species.

MOLLUSCAN FAUNA OF VIRGINIA COAST.

Mr. John B. Henderson, jr., a member of the Board of Regents of
the Institution, and Dr. Bartsch, of the National Museum, visited
the Atlantic shore of Accomac County, Va., which had heretofore
received little attention from collectors.

The chief objects of this trip were to determine of just what
elements the molluscan fauna consisted; to see how many, if any,
species of southern range lapped over from Hatteras, and what
northern species still persisted in this faunal area. The collectors
were fortunate in their somewhat haphazard choice of a locality,
for they encountered at Chincoteague a greater variety of stations
than can probably be found at any other point along this section of
the coast. Here there are interior sounds of very considerable
extent which are very shallow (4 to 12 feet), more or less thickly
sown with oyster beds and with patches of eel grass, the bottom
ranging from hard sand through varying degrees of hard clay
to soft mud.

They found also the unusual feature of a bight or protected cove
formed by the southward drift at the southern end of Assateague
Island, protected from heavy wave action by a long, curved sand
spit. This bight has a soft mud bottom, with a temperature possibly
8° less than that of the open sea. The mud brought up with the
dredge seemed almost icy to the touch. This condition is probably
produced by cold springs seeping through the floor of the bight.
This colder water of the bight yielded to their dredge Yoldia lima-
tula, large and fine, and Nucula proxima, whereas just around the
protective spit of sand, on the ocean side, they found dead Terebras
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

of two species, some young Busycon perversa, and a valve of Cardium
robustum—a somewhat startling association of species.

Then there was the open sea, which here presumably differs in no
manner from other open-sea stations along the 200 miles or more of
this coast. The bottom drops off very gradually to the edge of the
continental shelf, some 75 or 100 miles out. The open-sea stations
which they occupied were, as might be expected, very poor. The
smooth, hard sand bottom seemed almost barren of life, and the
softer patches that were explored contained only many dead shells,
mostly ‘small bivalves. The work in the open sea was scarcely a
good test, although they made probably 20 hauls, reaching out from
the shore some 4 or 5 miles, but the chart soundings indicated more
promising areas of pebbly bottom a few miles beyond what they con-
sidered the safety zone for a small motor boat.

The inner waters of the sound were found to be unexpectedly
rich in molluscan life, the species, for the most part, not having been
taken outside or in the bight.

EXPEDITION TO DUTCH EAST BORNEO AND CASHMERE.

In continuation of the exploration and collection carried on
through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, by Mr. H. C. Raven, in
Dutch East Borneo it may be said that the work is going forward
with excellent results. Dr. Abbott is continuing his personal ex-
plorations in Cashmere and has forwarded some valuable specimens
of mammals, including a queer little silvery gray shrew about 74
millimeters long, and a magnificent snow leopard, with its complete
skeleton. In Baltistan, northwestern Cashmere, Dr. Abbott secured
about 289 skins, which have.been presented to the National Museum.
After a sojourn in England he expected to return to Cashmere and
march to Ladak. He also intended to visit Nubra and go east along
the frontier to the Dipsang Plains, where he hoped to secure speci-
mens of a certain vole from Kara Korum Pass, as well as the little
Tibetan fox, known to the Cashmere furriers as the “king fox.”

LIFE ZONES IN THE ALPS.

Aided by a small grant from the funds of the Institution, Dr.
Stejneger, head curator of biology in the National Museum, visited
the eastern Alps toward the close of the last fiscal year, to make
further observations toward a determination of the limits of the
life zones, which in that part of Europe might correspond to those
established in North America. That a system of such life zones
exists in Europe has long been more or less vaguely stated by authors,
but although a definite correlation was established by Dr. Stejneger
and Mr. Miller in 1904, certain points, especially the interrelation of
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

the zones corresponding to the so-called Canadian and Hudsonian
life zones in America, were greatly obscured by the long-continued
- interference of man and animals with nature, such as the grazing of
cattle in the high Alps, deforestation, and more recently, artificial
reforestation.

It was thought that the eastern Alps might show more primitive
conditions. Dr. Stejneger visited the mountain region between
Switzerland and the head of the Adriatic. Arrived at the town of
Bassano, at the foot of the Venetian Alps, he began to study the life
zones of the Val Sugana and the plateau of the Sette Comuni from
that point. This plateau descends abruptly to the Venetian plain
on the south, while to the east and north it is separated from the mass
of the eastern Alps by the Val Sugana, or the valley of the River
Brenta, and on the west by the lower part of the valley of the
Adige, or Etsch. It is intersected by the boundary line between
Italy and Austrian Tyrol.

He made a series of excursions from Bassano, Levico, and Trento
as successive headquarters, during which time he completely circled
the territory, and crossed the plateau once on foot. He was able
to trace the boundaries of the Austral life zones in considerable
detail, as well as to gather data which connect with the previous
correlation of these zones in the western Alps and with the corre-
sponding zones in North America. It was found that the bottom of
the entire Val Sugana belongs to the upper Austral zone. Owing
to the rainy and inclement weather the results were less satisfactory
in the higher regions, though some important data corroborating pre-
vious conclusions were obtained.

Observations were also made on the Etsch Valley in Tyrol, from
Trento to Schlanders, and on its tributary, the Eisak, from Bozen
to its source on the Brenner Pass.

The elaboration of the detailed observations will be incorporated
with a general report on the biological reconnoissance of the western
Alps.

RESEARCHES UNDER HARRIMAN TRUST FUND.

Dr. C. Hart Merriam continued during the year to carry on cer-
tain natural history and ethnological investigations provided for by
a special trust fund established by Mrs. E. H. Harriman for that
purpose. His principal work during the year was on the big bears
of America, a group he has been studying for more than 20 years and
concerning which he now has a monograph in preparation. In
furtherance of this study, specimens have been placed at his disposal
by numerous sportsmen and hunters and by the larger museums of
the United States and Canada. In the course of his investigations a
transcontinental line was run across the country to the coast of Cali-
fornia by which the easternmost limits of range were determined for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

a number of species of mammals, birds, reptiles, and plants. And
while traversing Utah and Nevada several remote tribes of Indians
were visited, particularly the Gosinte, from whom a long-needed
vocabulary was obtained.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH IN EASTERN ASIA,

For the extension of researches in eastern Asia, in continuation of
anthropological investigations carried on in Siberia and Mongolia
under the direction of the Institution in 1912, an allotment has been
made from the Smithsonian fund for work during the next fiscal
year and for a limited period thereafter. The plan of operations
includes a thorough study of the peoples of the eastern coast of Asia,
Manchuria, Mongolia, Tibet, and Siberia, among whom it is believed
hes the secret of the origin of the American Indian. Investigations
thus far made by Dr. Hrdlicka in behalf of the Institution indicate, be
says, “that there exist to-day over large parts of eastern Siberia and
in Mongolia, Tibet, and other regions in that part of the world
numerous remains which now form constituent parts of more modern
tribes or nations, of a more ancient population (related in origin, per-
haps, with the latest paleolithic European), which were physically
identical with, and in all probability gave rise to, the American
Indian.”

In a pamphlet on Smithsonian Explorations in 1913 a number of
other biological and anthropological investigations are described.

RESEARCHES UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

The Hodgkins fund was established in 1891 by a gift of $200,000
from Mr. Thomas George Hodgkins, of Setauket, N. Y. By sub-
sequent gifts during his life and through sums received from Mr.
Hodgkins’s estate, of which the Institution was made the residuary
legatee, the fund has increased to about $250,000. It was stipulated
by the donor that the income of $100,000 of his gift should be de-
voted to the increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge in regard
to the nature and properties of atmospheric air in connection with
the welfare of man. He indicated his desire that researches be not
limited to sanitary science, but that the atmosphere be considered in
its widest relationship to all branches of science, referring to the
experiments of Franklin in atmospheric electricity and the discovery
of Paul Bert in regard to the influence of oxygen on the phenomena
of vitality as germane to his foundation. To stimulate researches
in these directions the Institution offered a prize of $10,000 for a
paper embodying some new and important discovery in regard to
the nature and properties of atmospheric air, which was awarded in
1895 to Lord Rayleigh and Prof. William Ramsay, of London, for

73176°—sM 1914———2
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

the discovery of argon, a new element in the atmosphere. Another
prize of $1,000 for the best popular treatise on atmospheric air was
awarded to Dr. Henry de Varigny, of Paris, from among 229 com-
petitors in the United States, France, Germany, England, Scotland,
Ireland, Italy, Russia, Austria-Hungary, Norway, Denmark, Fin-
land, Bohemia, Bavaria, Servia, Switzerland, Spain, India, Canada,
Mexico, and Argentina. Numerous investigations on the “ composi-
tion of expired air and its effects upon animal life,” in “ atmospheric
actinometry,” the “air of towns,’ “animal resistance to disease,”
“experiments with ionized air,” “the ratio of specific heats,” and
kindred topics have been carried on with the aid of grants from the
Hodgkins fund. Researches have likewise been aided in connection
with the temperature, pressure, radiation, and other features of the
atmosphere at very high altitudes, extending during the past year
to more than 45,000 feet, and many other lines of investigation
have been carried on, through all of which it is believed that valuable
knowledge has been acquired by which the welfare of man has been
advanced.

Under a grant from the Hodgkins fund Mr. A. K. Angstrém car-
ried on some observations in California during the past year for the
purpose of measuring nocturnal radiations at different altitudes rang-
ing from below sea level to the summit of Mount Whitney, 4,420
meters (14,502 feet). Some of the results attained by Mr. Angstrém
and work in connection therewith are discussed by Dr. C. G. Abbot
in his report as director of the Astrophysical Observatory.

A grant was also made to Mr. Angstrém to enable him to measure
the “nocturnal radiation ”’—that is, loss of heat to space during the
total eclipse of the sun August 21, 1914, in the north of Sweden.

In connection with the International Congress on Tuberculosis
held in the National Museum in 1908 the Institution offered a Hodg-
kins fund prize of $1,500 for the best treatise on “the relation of
atmospheric air to tuberculosis.” About a hundred papers were
submitted, and after an exhaustive examination by the advisory
committee the award has now been made and the prize divided
equally between Dr. Guy Hinsdale, of Hot Springs, Va., and Dr. 8.
Adolphus Knopf, of New York, for their essays on the topic stated.

Dr. Hinsdale’s essay was recently published at the expense of the
Hodgkins fund, the public demand for the work requiring the print-
ing of a second edition. In discussing the general treatment of the
disease, the essayist has special reference to the effect of the atmos-
pheric air and the value of various climates in relation to tubercu-
losis. In conclusion the author says:

We believe that climate may be utilized as an adjuvant of great value for

carrying out the hygienic, dietetic treatment of all forms of tuberculosis and
many other diseases. * “ “* The first place must be assigned to an abundance
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

of air, which is as nearly as possible bacteriologically and chemically pure.
* * * Only at the sea or at the highest elevations do we find air really pure,
but we can approximate it by living out of doors.

* * * Probably the best combination is a low humidity and a moderately
cool temperature; the average tuberculosis patient makes his best gains after
August 1 and in subsequent cold, dry weather when such conditions pre-
Wallen Raut * 34

The old idea about equability of temperature, at least between the tempera-
ture of midday and midnight, is not of great importance; all mountainous
stations show great variations in this respect. Some variability tends to stimu-
late the vital activities, but in older people and those who are feeble great
variability is a disadvantage.

As far as altitude is concerned it probably has not, per se, any great in-
fluence; certainly, to my mind, not so much as we used to think. However,
altitude is incidentally associated with mountain life or life on the plains, with
more sun, less moisture, and scattered population.

* * * Surgical tuberculosis is always favorably influenced by a seashore
residence suitably chosen. * * * Constant outdoor life in all weather works
miraculous cures after the most formidable operations for bone tuberculosis,
and in many cases renders them wholly unnecessary in patients whose physical
condition on admission was most unpromising.

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

In the interest of American biologists who may desire to study
marine life under exceptionally favorable facilities, the Institution
has for more than 20 years maintained a table at the Naples Zoologi-
cal Station. Investigators are assigned the use of this table for
stated periods on the recommendation of an advisory committee ap-
pointed for the purpose. During the past year the table has been
utilized by Mr. Reynold A. Spaeth, a student of Harvard University,
who pursued studies in experimental physiology; Dr. T. S. Painter,
graduate of Yale University, for work on an experimental cytologi-
eal problem; and Prof. Edwin C. Starks, of Stanford University,
for an investigation of the bones and muscles of the mandible of

fishes.

RESEARCH CORPORATION.

In February, 1912, the Research Corporation was organized under
the laws of New York as a means for furthering scientific and tech-
nical research. Its principal object is—
to acquire inventions and patents and to make them more available in the arts
and industries, while using them as a source of income, and, second, to apply
all profits derived from such use to the advancement of technical and scientific
investigation and experimentation through the agency of the Smithsonian
Institution and such other scientific and educational institutions and societies
as may be selected by the directors.

No dividends are to be paid, and the entire net profits are to be
devoted to research. The Smithsonian Institution is interested in
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

the management of this corporation through the membership of the
secretary in its board of directors, which is composed of business
and professional men, many of whom have had experience in large
industrial and mining enterprises, and it is provided in the certificate
of incorporation that the Smithsonian Institution may receive funds
for research and experimentation.

The chief assets of the corporation at present are the Cottrell
patents relating to the precipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical
fumes by the use of electrical currents. Dr. F. G. Cottrell, the in-
ventor and donor of these patents, has described their operation and
advantages and the progress thus far made in their installation in.
an article printed in the Smithsonian Report for 1913.

A number of other patents in various fields of industry have been
offered by officers of the Government and scientific institutions, as
well as by manufacturing corporations holding patents not available
for their own purposes, and undoubtedly there are many others,
both in this country and abroad, who will be glad to have their in-
ventions utilized for the benefit of scientific research.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY IN CHINA.

In my last report mention was made of the proposed establish-
ment of an American school of archeology in China. The objects of
the school as proposed are: (1) To prosecute archeological research
in eastern China; (2) to afford opportunity and facilities for in-
vestigation to promising and exceptional students, both foreign and
native, in Asiatic archeology; and (38) to preserve objects of archeo-
logical and cultural interest in museums in the countries to which
they pertain in cooperation with existing organizations, such as the
Société d’Ankor, etc.

The management of the affairs of the school is placed in the hands
of an executive committee of five, consisting of Dr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. Charles Henry
Butler, reporter of the United States Supreme Court; Prof. F. W.
Shipley, of St. Louis; Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit; and Mr.
Eugene Meyer, jr., of New York. The general committee consists
of 16 gentlemen especially interested in archeological research in
China, with Dr. Walcott as chairman and Mr. Butler as secretary.
A preliminary survey in the Chinese Republic for the information
of the general committee in considering the permanent organization
of the proposed school has been made, and the committee will later
be called together for further consultation.

PUBLICATIONS.

; Of new publications there was issued by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and its branches during the year a total of 6,807 printed pages,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot

with 834 plates of illustrations. The aggregate distribution was
202,671 copies of pamphlets and bound volumes.

One of the principal functions of the Institution, “the diffusion of
knowledge,” is accomplished through its publications, which record
results of original researches, accounts of explorations, the progress
achieved in science and industry, and general information in all
branches of human knowledge believed to be of value to those inter-
ested in the promotion of science and in the welfare of man. The
series of “Contributions to Knowledge” in quarto form, and the
“ Miscellaneous Collections,” in octavo, are printed in limited editions
at the expense of the Institution and distributed chiefly to certain
large libraries throughout the world where they are available for pub-
lic reference. The Annual Report, however, is provided for by con-
gressional appropriations, and the edition is great enough to permit
its wide distribution. Besides the official report of the Board of
Regents and the secretary of the general operations of the Institution
during the year, there is included in the Smithsonian Report a gen-
eral appendix containing 30 or more original or selected papers illus-
trating the more remarkable and important developments in scientific
discovery.

Tn addition to the three series of works above mentioned pertain-
ing to the Institution proper, there are issued under its direction (a)
_ the Annual Report, the Proceedings, and the Bulletins of the Na-
tional Museum, including the Contributions from the National Her-
barium; (0) the Annual Report and Bulletins of the Bureau of
American Ethnology; and (c) the Annals of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, all of which are public documents printed through annual
allotments by act of Congress.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.—The chief characteris-
tic of memoirs contained in the Contributions to Knowledge is that
they are discussions of extensive original investigations constituting
important additions to knowledge. Since the establishment of this
series in 1848 there have been published about 150 of these memoirs
in 35 quarto volumes. The most recent of these, reviewed in my last
report, was the “Langley Memoir on Mechanical Flight,” recording
the experiments of the late Secretary Langley, resulting in his suc-
cessful demonstration of the practicability of aerial navigation with
machines heavier than the air.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections —Thirty-six papers in this
series were issued during the year, forming parts of seven volumes, as
enumerated in Appendix 8. They included some articles by your
secretary, describing further results of his studies of Cambrian
fossils, and papers on the usual wide range of biological, geolog-
ical, and anthropological topics. In this series are included the
Smithsonian tables, which have become standard works of reference.
a2, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

In 1852 the Institution published the first edition of the Smithsonian
meteorological tables, which were so widely used by physicists during
the next 40 years that it was decided to publish three sets of tables,
independent of one another, but forming a homogenous series. The
first of the new series, Smithsonian Meterological Tables, was pub-
lished in 1898; revised editions were issued in 1896, 1897, and 1907,
and another revised edition is now under consideration. The second
series, Smithsonian Geographical Tables, appeared in 1894, editions
slightly revised were issued in 1897 and 1906, and additional copies
of the last edition were printed during the past year to meet the
constant demand for this work. In 1896 there was published the
Smithsonian Physical Tables, which have passed through several
editions, the sixth revised edition being now in press. In this latest
edition are incorporated many new tables and the insertion of recent
data in the older tables to conform with the great advances in various
fields of physical science. A fourth series is the Smithsonian Mathe-
matical Tables (Hyperbolic Functions), published in 1909.

Smithsonian Report.—The distribution of the Annual Report for
1912 was long delayed, awaiting a supply of the quality of paper
used in that publication. The volume contains 38 articles of the
usual character in the general appendix. The report for 1913 was in
type at the close of the fiscal year. The popularity of this publica-
tion continues unabated, the entire edition each year becoming ~
exhausted very soon after its completion.

Special publications—F or several years past the Institution has
issued in printed form the Opinions rendered by the International
Commission on Zoological Nomenclature. During the past year
Opinions 57 to 65 were thus published. To aid the work of this
commission the Institution also provides for clerical services in con-
nection with the oflice of its secretary in this country.

Another special publication of the year, printed in a limited edi-
tion, was a pamphlet giving an account of the exercises in the Smith-
sonian building on May 6, 1913, on the occasion of the presentation
of the Langley medal to Monsieur Eiffel and to Mr. Glenn H. Curtiss,
and the unveiling of the Langley memorial tablet.

Harriman Alaska Series —In 1910 there was transferred to the
Smithsonian Institution by Mrs. Edward H. Harriman the re-
mainder of the edition of volumes 1 to 5 and 8 to 13 of the elaborate
publication on the results of the Harriman Alaska Expedition of
1899. It may be recalled that this expedition was organized with
the cooperation of the Washington Academy of Sciences, but entirely
at the expense of the late Mr. Edward H. Harriman, of New York.
Tt was participated in by a large party of scientific specialists, on a
steamship specially chartered for the purpose. A narrative of the
irip and observations on the regions visited, together with desecrip-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. of

tions of the natural-history features of Alaska were prepared by
specialists of the party and published in the series above mentioned.
Volumes 6 and 7 on botany are still in preparation. During the past
year volume 14 has been issued by the Smithsonian Institution. It
is a.monograph of the shallow-water starfishes of the North Pacific
coast, from the Arctic Ocean to California, and is accompanied by
110 plates of illustrations.

National Museum publications—The annual report for 1914 of
the assistant secretary in charge of the National Museum was pub-
lished during the year, together with 49 papers from the Museum
Proceedings, and 9 Bulletins, including a number of parts of vol-
umes of Contributions from the National Herbarium.

Ethnology publications —The Bureau of American Ethnology
issued during the year a bulletin on Chippewa Music and one on the
Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians. There were in press at the close
of the year three annual reports and several bulletins, as noted in
the second appendix of this report.

Astrophysical Observatory.—V olume 8 of the Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory was distributed early in the fiscal year.

Reporis of historical and patriotic societies —In accordance with
the national charters of the American Historical Association and
the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
annual reports of those organizations were submitted to the Insti-
tution and communicated to Congress.

Allotments for printing.—The allotments to the Institution and
its branches, under the head of “ Public printing and binding,” dur-
ing the fiscal year, aggregating $76,200, were all utilized, with the
exception of small balances on work in progress at the close of the
year. The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1915, are as
follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution: For printing and binding the annual
reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendices____________ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-
dices, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the. Bulletins and
Proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not
exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half morocco or material not more
expensive, scientific books, and pamphlets presented to or acquired

byathe NationalsMauseunr libranty}isst: ase oet Ph fe ee ets 3 37, 500
For the annual reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau____ 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:
MitLern AOA XCHAN Sees eels SARA) RCE SENET AEP iS) ee, 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__________________ 100
National Zoologicalls arle she) Pics. 5. hee kh ee Se gs 200
AStrophysicails Observahory = 4222 es ee ee 200
For the annual report of the American Historical Association_________ 7, 000
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Committee on printing and publication —The advisory committee
on printing and publication under the Smithsonian Institution has
continued to examine manuscripts proposed for publication by the
branches of the Institution and has considered various questions con-
cerning public printing and binding. ‘Twenty meetings of the com-
mittee were held during the year and 121 manuscripts were passed
upon. The personnel of the committee during the year was as fol-
lows: Dr. Frederick W. True, Assistant Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, chairman; Dr. C. G. Abbot, Director of the
Astrophysical Observatory; Dr. Frank Baker, Superintendent of the
National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the
Smithsonian Institution, secretary of the committee; Mr. F. W.
Hodge, Ethnologist-in-charge of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy; Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology, United States
National Museum; and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of
biology, United States National Museum.

Distribution of publications.—In accordance with the law enacted
August 23, 1912, requiring that all Government publications be
mailed from the Government Printing Office, the Smithsonian Re-
port and publications of the United States National Museum and
the Bureau of American Ethnology have since been distributed
direct from the Government Printing Office.

LIBRARY.

The library of the Smithsonian Institution is its most valuable
single possession. The number of publications of learned societies
and of periodicals and other works pertaining to pure and applied
science which have been brought together by the Institution since
its organization aggregates more than half a million titles. In
1866 many of the scientific works in the library were transferred for
various administrative reasons to the Library of Congress, where
they form the Smithsonian deposit, which is constantly being in-
creased by new accessions. The number of additions to the deposit
during the past year was 32,195 pieces, including 20,603 periodicals,
3,765 volumes, 1,729 parts of volumes, 5,755 pamphlets, and 348
charts.

In the Smithsonian and Museum buildings there are retained such
books of the Smithsonian Library as are needed for reference in
scientific investigations, and there is maintained a reading room,
where the current numbers of nearly 300 foreign and domestic scien-
tific periodicals are on file for consultation by students in general
and by the staff of the Institution and its branches.

In the main hall of the Smithsonian building steel stacks are being
constructed for the better care and preservation of the libraries of
the Government bureaus under the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

Works on natural history, the arts and industries, and other sub-
- jects pertaining to the several departments of the National Museum
are installed in the new and older Museum buildings. This library
now numbers 43,609 volumes, 73,761 pamphlets and unbound papers,
and 124 manuscripts.

In the assistant hbrarian’s review of the year’s operations in ap-
pendix 6 of this report details will be found as to the work of the
library in its several subdivisions.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES.

The Institution is frequently invited to send representatives to
scientific congresses in the United States and abroad, but as funds
are not available for the expenses of delegates, invitations can be
accepted only in a few instances when collaborators of the Institution
or members of the scientific staff are willing to attend at their own
expense.

Your secretary, as a member of the Twelfth International Congress
of Geology, would have attended the meeting in Toronto August 7
to 14, 1913, but he was unable to make arrangements to leave his
field work in the Canadian Rockies at that time. He had an oppor-
tunity to address the members of the congress during their visit to
Field, British Columbia. Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of
geology in the United States National Museum, however, attended
the congress as representative of the Smithsonian Institution and the
Museum.

Plans had been perfected at the close of the fiscal year for hold-
ing the Nineteenth International Congress of Americanists in Wash-
ington during the month of September, 1914.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL BUILDING.

In my last report reference was made to the act of Congress
approved by the President March 4, 1913, authorizing the George
Washington Memorial Association to erect a memorial building on
Armory Square facing the Mall, which extends from the Capitol to
the Washington Monument. The control and administration of the
building, when erected, is in the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Plans for the building were selected in May,
1914, from designs submitted by 13 competing architects, and were
subsequently approved by the National Commission of Fine Arts.

The drawings depict a colonial building with pillared front and
square ground plan. The main feature is an auditorium to seat 6,000
people, which is arranged in the form of an ellipse, with the stage
at one end and a deep balcony encircling the whole.

The work of construction must be begun before the 4th of March,
1915, or the authorization by Congress for the use of the above site
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

will lapse. It is further provided that the work of construction can
not be commenced until the sum of $1,006,000 is raised by the associa-
tion, and although Mrs. Henry F. Dimock, president of the associa-
tion and chairman of the building committee, has secured a part of
this sum, much still remains to be raised.

The cost of the building must be not less than $2,000,000, and there
must be provided for its maintenance a permanent fund of not less
than $500,000. In the preamble of the original bill (S. 5494) passed
by the Senate April 15, 1912, “to provide a site for the erection of
a building to be known as the George Washington Memorial Build-
ing, to serve as the gathering place and headquarters ef patriotic,
scientific, medical, and other organizations interested in promoting
the welfare of the American people,” the purpose of the building is
defined as follows:

Whereas George Washington, on July 9, 1799, said, “It has been my ardent
wish to see a plan devised on a liberal scale which would spread systematic
ideas through all parts of this rising empire,” and it was Washington’s wish
to materially assist in the development of his beloved country through the
promotion of science, literature, and art, and with the firm conviction that
“Inowledge is the surest basis of public happiness”; and

Whereas the changing conditions that time has brought require new methods
of accomplishing the results desired by Washington and now a necessity of
the American people; and

Whereas at the present time there is not any suitable building in the city of
Washington where large conventions or in which large public functions can
be held, or where the permanent headquarters and records of national organi-
zations can be administered; and

Whereas a building should be provided in which there shall be a large audi-
torium, halls of different sizes where all societies pertaining to the growth of
our best interests can meet, and such as it is deemed desirable-may have
permanent headquarters; and

Whereas the George Washington Memorial Association is now engaged in ob-
taining funds for the erection and endowment of a building suitable for the
purposes above set forth, to be known as the George Washington Memorial
Building: Therefore * * *

The law as passed by Congress and approved by the President
March 4, 1913, was as follows:

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled:

* Bo co * x ok *

Sec. 10. That a building is hereby authorized to be erected in the District of
Columbia, to be known as the George Washington Memorial Building.

The control and administration of said building, when erected, shall be in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

The George Washington Memorial Association is authorized to erect said
building in accordance with plans to be procured by said association and to be
approved by the Commission of Fine Arts, said building to be fireproof, faced
with granite; and to cost not less than $2,000,000; it shall have an auditorium
that will seat not less than six thousand people, and such other smaller halls, °
reception rooms, office rooms, and so forth, as may be deemed necessary to
“ONIGTING IWIHOWSIA] NOLONIHSVAA SDYOS‘) YOS NOISAG GSA0UddY

"C6 aLV1d

*oday s Aiejosoeag—'1 6] oday ueluosy}iWusS
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 27

carry out the purposes for which the building is erected. And the said George
Washington Memorial Association shall in addition provide a permanent endow-
ment fund of not less than $500,000, to be administered by the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, the income from which shall, as far as necessary,
be used for the maintenance of the said building.

Permission is granted the George Washington Memorial Association to erect
said building in the north end of the reservation known as Armory Square,
bounded by Sixth and Seventh Streets west and B Street north and B Street
south. The south’front of said building is to be on a line with the south front
of the new National Museum Building, in the north end of the Smithsonian
Park; and the said land is hereby set apart for that purpose: Provided, That
the actual construction of said building shall not be undertaken until the sum
of $1,000,000 shall have been subscribed and paid into the treasury of the George
Washington Memorial Association: And provided further, That the erection of
said George Washington Memorial Building be begun within a period of two
years from and after the passage of this act, and this section shall be null and
void should the George Washington Memorial Association fail to comply with
the provisions thereof, which are conditions precedent to the authorization
herein granted.

Said building may, among other purposes, be used for inaugural receptions
and special public meetings authorized by Congress.

Congress may alter, amend, add to, or repeal any of the provisions of this
section.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Since the operations of the Museum are reviewed by Assistant
Secretary Rathbun in the first appendix of this report and are dis-
cussed in detail in a separate volume, it seems unnecessary for me
here to do more than to allude to some of the more important fea-
tures of the year’s work. The growth of the Museum during recent
years has been greater than during any prior period of its history.
Confined as it was for more than 30 years within restricted quarters
poorly adapted for many classes of exhibits, its growth was greatly
hindered and its value to the public hampered in many ways. With
the completion of the new building, however, there has come an era
of greater usefulness to the Nation in every direction. The natural
history collections are now given adequate room in the spacious
halls of the new building, while in the older structure opportunity
is afforded for the proper display of objects relating to the arts and
industries and to American history. Increase in every division of
the three principal departments of the Museum—anthropology, biol-
ogy, and geology—is now welcomed both for purposes of exhibition
and in the study series.

During the last fiscal year there was added a total of 387,705
objects, 14,879 of which pertained to anthropology, 257,816 to zoology,
44,675 to botany, 3,648 to geology and mineralogy, 13,045 to pale-
ontology, 2,930 to textiles and other animal and vegetable products,
505 to mineral technology, and 207 to the National Gallery of Art.
The relative importance of many classes of objects thus acquired is
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

referred to in the assistant secretary’s report. Among the most note-
worthy accessions in ethnology were more than 500 objects from
Dutch New Guinea, the Moluccas and Ambon of the Ceram group,
collected and presented by Dr. W. L. Abbott, who has done so much
for the Museum in past years toward increasing our knowledge of
the zoology and ethnology of the Far East. Among the important
acquisitions in biology were some 200,000 insects obtained by ento-
mologists of the Department of Agriculture during economic investi-
gations; a generous donation from Dr. E. A. Mearns, consisting of
his large private collection of bird skins, eggs, and skeletons, con-
taining many rarities; and over 10,000 specimens, mainly grasses,
from the Department of Agriculture., Additions in geology and
mineralogy included a 200-pound specimen of copper from Nevada;
many specimens of minerals from various sources, including rare and
excellent examples and some new forms; meteorites; Cambrian fossils;
and three valuable type collections pertaining to the paleobotany of
Alaska and other regions. Dr. E. O. Ulrich presented about 3,000
Paleozoic fossils of much value to the Museum. The division of
textiles has been enriched by many important accessions and has
been much extended in its scope during the year.

In the division of history there were large additions to memorials
of eminent Americans and of historic events. An exhibit of period
costumes installed in one of the history halls has attracted much
attention. It includes a series of costumes worn by wives of many
of the Presidents of the United States, and contains valuable ex-
amples of the styles of dress in America since the colonial period
and a variety of articles of domestic and personal use. A unique
photographic exhibit illustrates the apparatus and results of all
stages of that art since the first attempts to obtain pictures through
the agency of the sun.

The collection of fine arts has been enriched by further gifts from
Mr. Charies L. Freer, of Detroit. His original gift, made in 1906,
contained about 2,300 objects, and has since been increased to 4,701
most interesting and valuable examples of oriental and American
art. The collection remains in the possession of the donor during his -
life. Mr. Freer has provided for the construction of a suitable build-
ing adjacent to the National Museum for the permanent preserva-
tion and display of the collection. Among permanent additions to
the National Gallery were a number of paintings. The loans ag-
gregated 109 paintings and 38 pieces of sculpture from various
sources.

I have elsewhere mentioned the bequest to the Institution by Dr.
Chamberlain of $35,000, establishing a fund to promote the increase
and scientific value of the Isaac Lea collections of precious stones
and fresh-water mussels in the Museum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

In the interest of general education, particularly in natural his-
tory, it has been the custom for many years to distribute to schools
and colleges throughout the country such duplicate material as
can be spared from the Museum collections. During the past year
14,564 specimens were thus distributed, besides several hundred
pounds of rocks, minerals, and ores.

The total attendance of visitors to the new or natural history
building during the year was 267,728 for week days and 61,653 on
Sundays, while the older building was visited by 146,533 persons.

The publications of the year numbered 14 volumes and 58 sep-
arate papers. The hbrary has now increased to a total of 43,609
volumes and 73,765 pamphlets and other unbound papers.

The auditorium and other available rooms in the new building
have proved of great convenience for meetings of scientific bodies
and were largely utilized during the year. Accommodations were
also afforded for several conventions of agriculturists, accompanied
by exhibits of wool, fruits, and other products

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The work of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the year
has brought together much new material relating to the habits and
customs and the languages of the American Indians. The results
of the studies of the several investigators are being published as
promptly as practicable. The systematic researches by the eth-
nologists forming the scientific staff of the bureau are described
in detail in the second appendix of this report. I may mention as of
special interest a reconnoissance by Mr. F. W. Hodge, Ethnologist-
in-charge, of a group of prehistoric ruins on a mesa in Cebollita
Valley, N. Mex. These ruins consist of a number of house groups
forming a compound built on an almost impregnable height, and
designed for defense; not only the groups but the individual houses
have the form of fortifications, while the vulnerable point of the
mesa rim is protected by means of a rude breastwork of stones. The
outer wall, which protects the whole mesa, is built of exceptionally
fine masonry, probably the finest work to be found in ancient pueblo
ruins of the Southwest. The building stones have been dressed to
shape, matched for size, and their faces finished by pecking, with
such labor as to confirm the belief that this ancient village was
designed for permanent occupancy. Among the special features of
interest which Mr. Hodge discovered were a burial cist in which
skeletons, pottery, and the remains of a mat were found; three small
cliff lodges situated in the sides of the cliffs; several ceremonial
rooms or kivas associated with the ruined houses; and the remains
of the early reservoirs of the inhabitants.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

A study was made by Dr. Fewkes of prehistoric antiquities in the
Lesser Antilles and material gathered for a proposed monograph on
the aborigines of those islands. Examination was made of many
village sites, prehistoric mounds, shell heaps, and bowlders bearing
incised pictographs. In a shell heap in Trinidad there was found
a valuable collection of animal heads made of terra cotta and stone
and other implements illustrating the early culture of the island. As
a result of his researches thus far, Dr. Fewkes concludes that—

The New World, when discovered, had not advanced in autochthonous de-
velopment beyond the neolithic age, whereas in Asia, Europe, and Africa a
neolithic age was supplemented by one in which metals had replaced stone for
implements. In the Old World this polished-stone epoch was preceded by a
paleolithic stone age not represented, so far as is known, in America. The
ethnology and archeology of our Indians is therefore only a chapter, and that
a brief one, of a segment of a much more extended racial evolution, as illus-
trated in Asia, Europe, and Africa.

Further study was made by Mr. Mooney of the sacred formulas of
the Cherokee Indians in North Carolina. In connection with this
work a collection of medicinal plants was made, including some speci-
mens of the native corn still cultivated as sacred and found to be a
new and hitherto undescribed variety of special food importance
under cultivation.

Investigations also progressed among the Fox Indians, the Creeks,
Osage, Seneca, and other tribes, and in the study of various Indian
languages and ceremonies much advancement was made. Toward a
work on the habits and customs and ceremonies of the Tewa Indians
of New Mexico there has been brought together much interesting
information.

Several years ago there was begun a series of handbooks on the
American Indians. The first. of these was issued in two volumes,
entitled “ Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico,” and
contains a descriptive list of the stocks, confederacies, tribes, tribal
divisions, and settlements north of Mexico, with sketches of their
history, archeology, manners, arts, customs, and institutions. The
work proved of so great value to the public that several reprintings
became necessary, including a special reprint by the Canadian Goy-
ernment.

The Handbook of American Indian Languages forms the second
of the series. Part I of this handbook has been published and por-
tions of the second part have been printed in separate form. This
work discusses the characteristics and classification of the languages
of the American Indians and their relation to ethnology. In North
America north of Mexico there are distinguished 55 linguistic fam-
ilies. The first volume of the handbook contains sketches of a num-
ber of the languages of the northern portion of the continent, in-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

cluding the Athapascan, Tlingit, Haida, Chinook, Algonquian,
Siouan, and Eskimo. .

The third of the series of handbooks is in preparation. This will
be a Handbook of American Antiquities. Work is also in progress on
a Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Mississippi, and it is
proposed later to put in hand a series of handbooks of the Indians
of the several States.

Publications issued during the year included a bulletin on Chip-
pewa Music and one on the Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians;
those in press at the close of the year were the Twenty-ninth, Thir-
tieth, and Thirty-first Annual Reports, besides four bulletins. There
was distributed a total of 12,819 volumes or separate papers. ‘The
library of the bureau now numbers about 20,000 books, 13,000
pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals. For the
proper care of the library, steel bookstacks have been installed in
the large hall on the first floor of the Smithsonian building.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Soon after the organization of the Institution there was created
what is known as the International Exchange Service for the inter-
change of publications between the scientific and literary societies
in the United States and other parts of the world. The mutual ad-
vantages of this system to all countries concerned has been reviewed
from time to time, and I will not attempt to state them again here.
During the past year there was handled by this service a total of
341,667 packages weighing 566,985 pounds. The weight of out-
going material was 424,481 pounds, and of incoming 142,504 pounds.
Fifty-six sets of official publications of the United States Govern-
ment are sent abroad in exchange with other Governments and form
about half of the total weight of shipments, although the receipts
from that source are comparatively small. In Appendix 3 will be
found details of the general operations of the Exchange Service
including a list of foreign bureaus or agencies through which ex-
changes are transmitted.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

In establishing the National Zoological Park in 1890, “ for the ad-
vancement of science and the instruction and recreation of the peo-
ple,” Congress placed its administration in the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution. The collection in the park is the out-
growth of a small number of living animals which for several years
had been assembled in very crowded quarters near the Smithsonian
building mainly for the purposes of scientific study. Chiefly
through gifts and exchanges the size of the park collection has grad-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

ually increased, until it now numbers 340 species of mammals, birds,
and reptiles represented by 1,362 individuals.

Among the 325 accessions during the year I may mention as of spe-
cial interest a male hippopotamus, a pair of young Bengal tigers, a
pair of young lions, a sable antelope, and an American white crane.
Among some specimens received from the Zoological Garden at Giza,
Egypt, was a pair of young African elephants. Thirty-eight in-
dividual donors contributed birds, reptiles, and other animals.

Popular interest in the park is shown by the fact that the number
of visitors during the year was 733,277, or a daily average of 2,009,
being an increase of 100,000 over the previous year. In the interest
of education in nature study many schools, classes, ete., visit the park
accompanied by their teachers; such groups during thie year num-
bered 3,172 individuals.

The improvements in quarters for the animals and for the comfort
of visitors are reviewed by the superintendent in Appendix 4. Ten
breeding pens, in a yard 40 by 56 feet, were built to provide for the
breeding and study of mink in cobwerntion with the Depar tment of
Agriculture.

The rough stone or bowlder bridge across Rock Creek, appropria-
tion for ane was made during the previous fiscal year, was opened
to travel on November 1, 1913.

Perhaps the most important feature of the year in connection with
the Zoological Park was an appropriation by Congress which became
available for the purchase of about 10 acres to extend the western
boundary of the park to Connecticut Avenue, between Cathedral
Avenue and Klingle Road. Legal proceedings necessary to the trans-
fer of this property had not been completed at the close of the year.

A new roadway to the park has been made to replace Quarry Road,
which had a very steep and dangerous gradient.

Among the important needs, some of which have been urged in
former reports, are (a) a suitable house for the care and preservation
of the birds of the collection; (6) an adequate reptile house; (¢) a
pachyderm house; and (d) a hospital and laboratory. Attention is
called to the statements of the superintendent urging these several
needs, particularly with regard to the laboratory.

There is need, too, for extending the scope of classes of animals in
the park, particularly those of common interest to the public, such as
the gorilla, orang, and chimpanzee, giraffe, East African buffalo, and
mountain goats and sheep.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory, described in detail
in the report of its director, has comprised observations and compu-
tations at Washington and in the field relating to the quantity of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

solar radiation, its variability from day to day, and the effect of the
atmospheric water vapor in absorbing the radiations of great wave
length such as are emitted toward space by the earth. Much atten-
tion has been given to the design, construction, and testing of new
apparatus for these researches, including apparatus for measuring
the sky radiation, special recording pyrheliometers to be attached
to free balloons for the purpose of measuring solar radiation at great
altitudes, and a tower telescope at the Mount Wilson Station.

The principal results of the year include: A new determination of
the number of molecules per cubic centimeter of gas, depending on
measurements at Mount Wilson of the transparency of the atmos-
phere; successful measurements by balloon pyrheliometers of the
intensity of solar radiation up to nearly 45,000 feet elevation above
sea level. The results tend to confirm the adopted value of the solar
constant of radiation. Most important of all, the investigation by
the tower telescope at Mount Wilson shows that the distribution of
radiation along the diameter of the sun’s disk varies from day to day
and from year to year. These variations are closely correlated with
the variations of the total amount of the sun’s radiation. Thus the
work of the year yields an independent proof of the variability of
the sun and tends to elucidate its nature.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The United States Bureau of the International Catalogue is ad-
ministered by the Smithsonian Institution through a small annual
appropriation by Congress. It is one of 33 regional bureaus in
various countries engaged in the collecting, indexing, and classify-
ing of scientific publications of the year, and the classified references
are forwarded to the central bureau in London, where they are col-
lated and published in a series of 17 annual volumes covering each
branch of science and aggregating about 8,000 printed pages. These
volumes are sold at an annual subscription price of $85, chiefly to
large reference libraries and important scientific institutions, the
- proceeds covering in part the cost of publication. During the past
year there was forwarded to London from the United States bureau
a total of 28,606 reference cards, making a total of 318,936 cards
prepared in the United States since the system was organized in
T901.

NECROLOGY.

Augustus Octavius Bacon was born in Bryan County, Ga., Oc-
tober 20, 1839, and died in Washington City February 14, 1914.
He became a member of the Board of Regents in 1905 and for three

73176°—su 19143
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

years had served on the executive committee. Mr. Bacon was edu-
cated at the University of Georgia in 1859 and was honored with
the degree of doctor of laws in 1909. He was for many years en-
gaged in law practice at Macon, Ga. He became a United States
Senator on March 4, 1895, and was thrice reelected, serving on many
important committees of that body. As a Regent of the Smith-
sonian Institution he took deep interest in the development of plans
for the advancement of science and the general welfare of mankind.

Irvin St. Clare Pepper, born in Davis County, Iowa, June 10,
1876, became a member of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution in December, 1911, and was reappointed December 10,
1913. He died on December 22, 1913. Mr. Pepper graduated from
the Southern Iowa Normal School in 1897 and received the degree of
bachelor of laws from the George Washington University in 1905,
and in 1906 entered law practice at Muscatine, lowa. He was county .
attorney from 1906 to 1910 and member of the Sixty-second and
Sixty-third Congresses. Resolutions to the memory of Mr. Pepper
were adopted by the Regents at the adjourned annual meeting Jan-
uary 15, 1914.

Frederick William True, born at Middletown, Conn., July 8,
1858, died in Washington City June 25, 1914. He was appointed an
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution June 1, 1911, his
special duties being in connection with the library and international
exchanges. Dr. True had held various positions of trust under the
Institution since 1881. The following tribute to his memory was
adopted by his associates at a meeting on June 26, 1914:

Frederick William True, master of science, doctor of laws, Assistant Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, died at Washington, D. C., June 25, 1914,
in the fifty-sixth year of his age.

His associates in the Smithsonian Institution and its several branches, as-
sembled at a meeting in his memory at the United States National Museum
on June 26, do here record their profound sorrow in the loss of an honored
scholar, an executive officer of marked ability, a sincere friend, a patriotic
citizen, and a modest man.

Graduated from the New York University at the early age of 20, he at once
entered the service of the United States as the youngest member of the scientific
corps brought together by Profs. G. Brown Goode and Spencer EF. Baird during
the formative stages of the National Museum. Through faithful performance
of duty in positions of trust he leaves to his associates an example worthy of
emulation, and through his unassuming and upright personality a cherished
memory.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuartes D. Watcora, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States National Museum for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1914:

INTRODUCTORY.

The last report contains a brief review of the exhibits in the new
building, which mainly relate to zoology, geology, and anthropology,
though also including the paintings of the National Gallery of Art
and certain special and temporary installations. The natural history
collections, while presenting a generally finished appearance, are,
however, as there explained, still incomplete and to a large extent
provisional in their arrangement. Considerable progress toward
their improvement was made during last year, and this work will be
continued as rapidly as possible until, to the extent of the material
available, some degree of perfection has been reached, but the pur-
poses of the Museum would be poorly served if more or less, and
even radical, changes were not made from time to time in those parts
of the collections which belong especially to the public.

Because of extensive interior alterations going on in the Smith-
sonian building, it was necessary temporarily to withdraw the
graphic arts collection from display, but upon the completion of
this work the surroundings for this important division will be greatly
improved. In the older Museum building, moreover, there was much
activity in connection with the exhibits, though not as much was
accomplished as was desirable or would have been possible with a
slightly increased appropriation. This building has been entirely
given over to the arts and industries and American history. Square
in shape, its exhibition space, amounting to about 100,000 square
feet, is divided into four naves or halls, radiating from a central
pavilion, the naves in turn being connected by ranges, eight in num-
ber, which follow the outer walls of the building and inclose four
square covered courts. Although consisting of only a single story,
except in the towers and pavilions, which are used for offices, most
of the halls are supplemented by galleries. The building faces north,
and its different subdivisions are designated by their position with
35

°
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

reference to the rotunda. In planning for the distribution of the
collections it has not been found possible to provide for all of the
subjects which should be comprehended, and the fact that a few of
the halls are still unarranged is due in part to the insufficient force
and in part to the length of time required for the preparation of
many of the exhibits. A brief summary of the conditions at the
close of the year may, however, be of some interest.

The division of history, formerly limited to the north hall, has
been extended into the west north range and the north west range,
and also occupies the floor space in the northwest court. The hall
and connecting range contain the general collection of history, con-
sisting chiefly of memorials. The collection of musical instruments
previously filling the large wall cases along the sides of this hall,
though not belonging to this division, have been removed to a corre-
sponding position in the northwest court, leaving these cases to be
used for historical furniture, of which the Museum has many im-
portant pieces. In one of them, however, “'The Star-Spangled Ban-
ner” still remains, pending arrangements for a better installation.
In the north west range has been placed the period costume collec-
tion, which was first opened to the public in February last. This
noteworthy feature, which centers upon a series of White House
costumes draped on manikins, contains many and valuable examples
of the styles of dress in America from the colonial period to the
present time, besides a great variety of articles of domestic and
personal use. In the adjoining or northwest court are the coins and
medals and the postage stamps, also an installation of last year.
The former are shown in table cases, but the stamps required a
special arrangement which has been carried out in the form of two
long upright cases, fitted with framed sliding screens to which the
stamps are attached. The gallery of this court is devoted to the
unique photographic exhibit, illustrating by apparatus and results
all of the stages in the progress of this art from the first attempts
at obtaining pictures through the agency of the sun. The opening
of this display was likewise a feature of the year.

On the left-hand side of the building on entering is the art textile
collection in the east north range, followed by the boat hall, or north
east range, in both of which but few changes were made. The divi-
sion of mechanical technology, to which the exhibit of boats belongs,
also occupies the east hall, the northeast court, and about one-half
of the south east range. The court is mainly given over to small
arms, both military and other, of which the collection is the largest
and most varied in this country. The remaining space is used for
a considerable variety of subjects, such as land and air transporta-
tion, electricity in its several applications, measures of space and
time, and many miscellaneous devices and inventions, which are well
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

displayed and labeled and to which numerous additions have re-
cently been made. In the gallery of the court are the collections of
ceramics, glassware, bronzes, etc., and in the north gallery of the
hall is the exhibit of the division of medicine.

The southern part of the building has been allotted to two divi-
sions, which, organized some 30 years ago but soon discontinued on
account of lack of space, have recently been reestablished on a
broader basis and have already attained considerable prominence.
One of these is the division of textiles, including also such animal
and vegetable products as do not specifically belong elsewhere. ‘To
this division have been assigned the south hall, the east south range,
and the southeast court, together with a considerable amount of
gallery space. While much of the original collection, when removed
from storage, was found to be still serviceable, the greater part of
the textile display, which is exceedingly rich and varied in its repre-
sentation of this industry in the United States, is the accumulation of
only two years. There is also a fair illustration of the work done
in the Philippines and some examples from Porto Rico. The exhi-
bition of animal and vegetable products is much less advanced, and
there is still to be taken up the subjects of commercial woods and
of foods.

The division of mechanical technology has been assigned the west
hall, the southwest and west south ranges, and the southwest court.
the occupation of all of which has been planned, in part definitely,
in part provisionally. The objects of this division are to illustrate
the processes involved in extracting minerals from the earth, and in
the utilization of the products so obtained, with the intention of
covering all the important minerals, both metallic and nonmetallic.
Progress with this exhibition will be slow, because of the time re-
quired to build models, in which the mining and manufacturing
interests are giving hearty and generous support, even to the extent
of furnishing expensive reproductions of their works and operations.
The first of the exhibits, opened to the public last year, relate mainly
to the subject of coal, and include several excellent models, the largest
of which, representing a bituminous colliery, occupies fully half the
floor space of the southwest court. A number of other models and
exhibits were also completed and installed, and additional ones were
in course of construction.

‘COLLECTIONS.

The additions to the collections aggregated approximately 337,705
specimens, apportioned among the several branches of the Museum
as follows, namely: Anthropology, 14,879; zoology, 257,816, of which
over 214,000 were insects; botany, 44,675; geology and mineralogy,
3,648; paleontology, 13,045; textiles and other animal and vegetable
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

products, 2,930; mineral technology, 505; and the National Gallery
of Art, 207. There were also received as loans 2,280 objects, mainly
for the exhibition series in ethnology, archeology, history, and the
Gallery of Art. 4

The most noteworthy accessions in ethnology consisted of over 500
objects from northern Dutch New Guinea, the Moluccas and Ambon
of the Ceram group, collected and presented by Dr. W. L. Abbott; an
especially important lot of material obtained at St. Lawrence Island,
Alaska, by Dr. Riley D. Moore, of the Museum staff; and a series of
Siouan ethnologica of particular value, as the locality and tribal
origin of the specimens are properly recorded. The principal addi-
tions in American archeology comprised material from old Indian
camp sites and caves in Patagonia and from Guatemala, the results
of explorations by Mr. Chester W. Washburne in the former region,
and by Mr. Neil M. Judd in the latter; an interesting series of stone
implements from Jackson County, Mo., presented by Mr. J. G.
Braecklein; and a large number of exceptionally fine specimens of
the same character from Missouri and Illinois, purchased from Mr.
D. I. Bushnell, jr. The collection of Old World archeology was
enriched by a drawing in color of an ancient mosaic map of Pales-
tine and adjacent regions, the gift of Mr. S. W. Woodward; an im-
portant contribution from the Egypt Exploration Fund through Mr.
Woodward; a large number of ancient coins and other objects from
the Near East, lent by Mrs. John Paul Tyler; and several series of
prehistoric material from Europe. The more notable accessions in
physical anthropology consisted of human crania and _ skeletons,
mainly of the Eskimo and Aleuts, the Buriats of central Siberia, the
Mongolians, the natives of Mélnik, Bohemia, the Patagonians, and
early man in Europe. The division of mechanical technology re-
ceived a circular sundial adapted to the latitude of Peking and
inscribed in Chinese characters from Mr. Claude L. Woolley; a set
of ancient German coin scales made by Johann Daniel Ellinghaus, in
Radevormwalde, Germany; important additions to the series of fire-
arms, and many other objects. There were a number of interesting
contributions in pottery and bronze, and also several desirable gifts
to the collections of graphic arts and musical instruments.

The division of history was the recipient of many accessions, some
of which were of much value, and an exceptionally large percentage
were permanent acquisitions. There were additions to the Washing-
ton collection; pieces of furniture formerly belonging to Alexander
Hamilton and Gen. Philip Schuyler; relics af Rear Admiral Charles
Wilkes, United States Navy; of Aaron Burr, and of Prof. Spencer
F. Baird; the sword carried by Brig. Gen. Strong Vincent, United
States Volunteers, when mortally wounded at Little Round Top,
Gettysburg; and a large collection of canes, interesting historically
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

as well as for their workmanship, some having been owned by persons
of high distinction. The collection of postage stamps, postal cards,
and stamped envelopes was increased to the extent of about 9,000
examples, and many additions were made to the series of coins and
medals and of portrait photographs. So many contributions were
received for the period costume collection as to permit of the instal-
lation and opening of the hall allotted to this subject.

Especially notable among the acquisitions in biology were some
200,000 insects obtained by entomologists of the Department of Agri-
culture during economic investigations in Texas and neighboring
States. Mr. H. C. Raven, whose work has continued to be maintained
by Dr. W. L. Abbott, sent over 1,500 mammals and birds from eastern
Borneo, including numerous rare and probably some new forms. Be-
s:des extensive collections of fishes and marine invertebrates, the
Bureau of Fisheries transferred a large number of reptiles and batra-
chians from various parts of North America, and the first series, with
the types, of the mammals obtained in Lower California during the
cruise of the steamer Albatross in 1911. The Biological Survey, in
addition to its regular deposits of North American mammals and
birds, turned over to the Museum many mammals from Patagonia
and reptiles and batrachians from Panama, and Prof. A. M. Reese
contributed a large quantity of specimens of several groups collected
by him at the Philippine Islands. Additional mammals were re-
ceived from China, Africa, the island of Sardinia, etc., and reptiles
and batrachians from California, Mississippi, Alabama, and other
southern States. A generous donation from Dr. E. A. Mearns, United
States Army, retired, consisted of his large private collection of bird
skins, eggs, and skeletons, containing many rarities. Other sources
of fishes than those above referred to were Japan, Fanning Island,
the Philippines, Panama, and California; and of insects, the Bahama
Islands, Florida, the southwestern and western States, and Alaska,
besides which important series in several groups of insects of eco-
nomic importance were among the contributions. The division of
mollusks received as gifts the important collection of the late Prof.
F. W. Bryant, of Lakeside, Cal.; about 2,000 specimens obtained by
Mr. John B. Henderson, jr., during a dredging expedition to the vi-
cinity of Chincoteague, Va., and many other valuable donations. The
marine invertebrates from the Bureau of Fisheries consisted chiefly
of material in several groups which had been the subject. of study
and report. About 100 species of rotifers, mounted on slides, were
presented by Mr. H. K. Harring, and numerous more or less impor-
tant collections were received from various sources. The additions to
the herbarium comprised over 10,000 specimens, mainly of grasses,
from the Department of Agriculture, resulting from recent field
work; about 38,500 West Indian and African plants from the New
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

York Botanical Garden; nearly 1,600 Chinese plants from the collec-
tion of Mr. E. H. Wilson; about 10,000 specimens of cryptogams
collected by the late John B. Leiberg and presented by Mrs. Leiberg;
and important contributiorts from Venezuela, Guam, the Philippines,
and the southern and southwestern States.

Among the additions in geology and mineralogy were an impor-
tant series of rocks and ores from the Sudbury nickel region and the
Cobalt mining district of Canada; a suite of recently described min-
erals from Peru; a 200-pound specimen of copper from Nevada; an
unusual deposit of carnotite in a fossil tree trunk; a large piece of
quartz vein, containing an abundant development of blade-like crys-
tals of tungsten ore; and many specimens of minerals from various
sources, including rare and excellent examples and some new forms.
The collections of meteorites and building stones received many
desirable additions, and the Geological Survey deposited a number
of series of rocks, of petrological value, from different parts of this
country and from Hawaii. The accessions in invertebrate paleon-
tology included about 150 types of Cambrian fossils collected and
described by Secretary Walcott; some 5,000 specimens from the
Middle Cambrian of British Columbia, also collected by him; and
about 150 type specimens of Bryozoa and Ostracoda, representing
work of the curator of the division on the Silurian collections from
the island of Anticosti, preserved at Yale University. The Geolog-
ical Survey transferred several collections, some of which had been
described; Dr. E. O. Ulrich presented about 3,000 Paleozoic fossils,
of much value to the Museum; and an important series of Tertiary
mollusks and Ordovician graptolites was received in exchange from
Australia. The most important acquisitions in vertebrate paleon-
tology consisted of a large collection made by Mr. Charles W. Gil-
more in the Blackfeet Indian Reservation; of the results of further
explorations by Mr. James W. Gidley in the Pleistocene cave deposits
near Cumberland, Md.; and of cetacean remains collected in the
Miocene beds near Chesapeake Beach, Md., by Mr. William Palmer
and Mr. Norman H. Boss. The section of paleobotany was enriched
by three valuable type collections from the Geological Survey, rep-
resenting the Jurassic formation at Cape Lisburne, Alaska; the
Tuscaloosa formation of Alabama; and the Cretaceous and Tertiary
in South Carolina and Georgia.

‘The number and value of the accessions in the division of textiles
were greatly increased over those of the previous year, due to the
appreciation shown by the producers in the important work which
the Museum has undertaken. Only a brief summary can here be
given of the many contributions which were almost wholly in the
form of gifts. 'To the cotton collection were added fancy wash
dress goods and shirtings, comprising pleasing and artistic combina-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

tions of plain, ratine, and mercerized cotton yarns, with spun silk
and viscose silk in plain and fancy weaves; plain, piece-dyed and
yarn-dyed dress goods of all cotton and cotton and artificial silk;
cotton fabrics finished to imitate those of silk and of wool and fancy
printed cotton velvets in gold and silver effects for millinery pur-
poses. The collection of wool and woolen products was enriched by
a large assortment of new fleeces of the best American and foreign
wools, all carefully graded and labeled to show the value in the
grease and when scoured; specimens marking the steps in the manu-
facture of both woolen and worsted goods, and many pieces of fin-
ished fabrics of both classes. The already extensive silk collection
was enlarged by the addition of a commercial package of skeins of
the finest Japanese raw silk, many yards of printed broad silks rep-
resenting the latest seasonable designs, brocaded novelty silks for
dress trimmings, and samples of ties, scarfs, veilings, and ribbons of
all kinds. Another important acquisition was the oldest model of
the Grant silk reel, now in universal use for winding silk into stand-
ardized crossed skeins. The manufacture of fur felt hats from .the
finest grades of beaver, nutria, hare, and coney furs was illustrated
by a comprehensive collection showing each step in the process from
the fur pelt to the finished hat, and including the leather and silk
trimmings for the principal types of hats. The development of an
artist’s plan for the decoration of a fabric by weaving or printing
was represented by a series of preliminary sketches, weaver’s drafts,
and engraved plates for use on the pantograph machine, all bearing
on the technology of design.

In the division of mineral technology, including a few of the
exhibits presented at the St. Louis exposition of 1904, which had
not previously been unpacked and recorded, the principal accessions
of the year were as follows: A very full illustration of the processes
of glass making; a complete working model of a bituminous colliery
at Fairmont, W. Va., covering a space of 30 by 40 feet; a reproduc-
tion of a bituminous mine at Willock, Pa., 8 by 12 feet square, which
excellently supplements the former; a relief panel illustrating proc-
esses involved in the manufacture of illuminating gas, tar, ammonia,
and other coal products in what is known as the by-products coke
industry ; a number of photographic enlargements depicting typical
underground operations incidental to coal mining; a series of native
gypsum and gypsum products; and a collection illustrating crude
mica and its industrial products.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The most important acquisition consisted of the formal transfer to
the Institution, by Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, Mich., of 198 ob-
jects as additions to his munificent gift to the Nation, comprising the
49 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

material which he had assembled since the last previous transfer in
November, 1912. This collection, as will be recalled, relates wholly
to American and oriental art, and is to remain in the possession of
the donor during his life. The original gift, made in 1906, con-
tained approximately 2,326 objects, but through subsequent contri-
butions this number has been increased to 4,701, of which 983 are
examples of American art and 3,718 are examples of oriental art.
These may be summarized as follows:

In the American section James McNeill Whistler is represented by
62 oil paintings, 44 water colors, 32 pastels, and 798 drawings, etch-
ings, lithographs, ete., besides 1 album of sketches, 38 original copper
plates, and the entire decoration of the famous Peacock Room. The
remainder of this section is composed of 75 oil paintings, 6 water
colors, 25 pastels, and 1 silver point, illustrating the work of 9 other
American painters, namely, Thomas Wilmer Dewing, Childe Hassam,
Winslow Homer, J. Gari Melchers, John Singer Sargent, Joseph
Lindon Smith, Abbott Handerson Thayer, Dwight William Tryon,
and John Henry Twachtman. The oriental paintings comprise 826
screens, panels, kakemono, and makimono from Japan and China;
32 albums of paintings and sketches from the same countries; and 18
paintings from Tibet. Of oriental pottery there are 1,665 pieces,
mainly from Japan, China, Corea, central and western Asia, and
Egypt; of bronzes, 236 pieces, of which over 200 came from China;
of stone objects, including sculptures, 234 pieces, mainly Chinese; of
wood carvings, 17 pieces; and of lacquered objects, 31 pieces. The
collection also contains over 600 pieces of ancient Egyptian glass in
the form of bottles, vases, and various other shapes, besides a large
number of miscellaneous objects from both the Far and Near East.

Other permanent additions to the Gallery consisted of 3 paint-
ings-by Miss Clara Taggart MacChesney, Guy C. Wiggins, and Addi-
son T. Millar, respectively, contributed by Mr. William T. Evans, of
New York; a painting by Du Bois Fenelon Hasbrouck, presented by
Mr. Frederic Fairchild Sherman in memory of his wife; and 4
paintings by Walter Shirlaw and a portrait sketch of him by Frank
Duveneck, received as a gift from Mrs. Shirlaw.

The loans to the Gallery aggregated 109 paintings and 3 pieces of
sculpture from 12 sources. Eighty-one of the paintings were re-
ceived for 2 special exhibitions, the first comprising 25 portraits in
oil from the National Association of Portrait Painters, the other
consisting of 56 marine paintings by Mr. William F. Halsall, of
Boston.

MISCELLANEOUS.

It is gratifying to announce a bequest by the late Rev. Dr. Leander
Trowbridge Chamberlain, an honorary associate of the Museum,
of the sum of $35,000, to be known as the Frances Lea Chamberlain
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

fund, the income of which is to be used for promoting the increase
and the scientific value and usefulness of the two important Isaac
Lea collections, $25,000 being given on account of the gems and
precious stones and $10,000 on account of the fresh-water mussels
or Unionide. Owing to delay in the settlement of the will, pay-
ment had not been made to the Institution at the close of the year.

By the will of Miss Lucy Hunter Baird, daughter of Prof. Spencer
F’. Baird, the second Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the
Museum received during the year many interesting objects for its
collections and several hundred important books for its library.

The distribution of duplicate material suitable for teaching pur-
poses to schools and colleges in all parts of the country aggregated
_ 14,564 specimens, besides several hundred pounds of rock and min-
eral fragments for blowpipe analysis. These were sent out in
148 separate sets, and consisted mainly of rocks, minerals, ores,
fossils, and mollusks and other marine. invertebrates. In exchange
transactions with other establishments and with individuals over
15,000 duplicates were used, about 80 per cent of this number
being plants. The loans to specialists for study comprised 10,256
specimens of animals and plants, and 5,425 specimens from the
department of geology, besides 746 unassorted lots of marine
invertebrates and 107 lots of fossils.

The total attendance of visitors at the new building aggregated
267,728 for week days and 61,653 for Sundays, making the daily
average for the former 855 and for the latter 1,185. The number
who visited the older Museum building was 146,533, a daily average
of 486, and the Smithsonian building 102,645, a daily average of
828. The falling off in attendance at these two buildings may be
ascribed to the fact that many of the halls in the former, emptied
by the withdrawal of the natural history collections, have not yet
received their new installations, and extensive rearrangements and
repairs in the Smithsonian building practically caused the closing
of its exhibition rooms for a considerable part of the year.

The publications of the year numbered 14 volumes and 58 separate
papers, 49 of the latter belonging to the series of Proceedings and 9
to the Contributions from the National Herbarium. In addition, 31
short papers on materials in the collections of the Museum, relating
mainly to new discoveries, were printed in the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections. The total distribution of Museum publications
amounted to about 93,200 copies. .

The library received 1,917 volumes, 1,723 pamphlets, and 132 parts
of volumes, and its total contents were thereby increased to 43,609
volumes and 73,765 pamphlets and other unbound papers, the greater
part of which have been obtained through exchange and as gifts.
Good progress was made in the reorganization and arrangement of
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

the section of the library relating to the arts and industries, which
occupies the former library quarters in the older Museum building.

The auditorium and other rooms in the new building were fre-
quently used for meetings and public gatherings having objects
akin to those of the Institution, and also by several bureaus of the
Government for official purposes. The regular meetings of the
Washington Society of the Fine Arts and the Anthropological So-
ciety of Washington were held here, as were the public sessions of the
annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences and the meet-
ings of the Spanish-American Atheneum and the American Orni-
thologists’ Union. Lectures were delivered under the auspices of the
Washington Academy of Sciences, the Medical Society of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, the Washington Society of Engineers, the George
Washington University, the Washington Society of the Archzeo-
logical Institute of America, the Germanistic Society of Washington,
the Columbia Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
the District of Columbia Chapter of the Guild of American Organ-
ists and other musical societies, and the Home Club of the Depart-
ment of the Interior. <A special program of American music was
also rendered by the Friday Morning Music Club. Of three con-
gresses, one held in Chicago, the others in Washington, each had a
special meeting in the auditorium for addresses by distinguished
persons. These were the Third International Congress of Refrigera-
tion, the fourth annual meeting of the American Association for
Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality, and the Third Interna-
tional Congress on the Welfare of the Child. On April 18, 1914, a
reception to the Daughters of the American Revolution was given
by the Secretary of the Institution.

The accommodations afforded by the new building were utilized on
numerous occasions by bureaus of the Department of Agriculture
for meetings, conferences, and hearings, including a series of lectures
under the Bureau of Plant Industry and a conference with the wool-
growers, accompanied by an excellent exhibition of wool specimens,
which has been deposited in the Museum. <A meeting of the Ameri-
can Pomological Society in conjunction with the Eastern Fruit
Growers Association, the Northern Nut Growers Association, and
the Society for Horticultural Science, held in November, 1913,
brought together in the foyer of the building one of the finest exhi-
bitions of fruit that has ever been displayed in this country.

Respectfully submitted.

Ricwarp Rarusun,
Assistant Secretary in Charge U.S. National Musewn.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Ocroper 6, 1914.
APPENDIX 2.

REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: In response to your communication dated July 1, I have the
honor to present the following report on the operations of the Bureau
of American Ethnology for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, con-
ducted in accordance with authority granted by the act, of Congress
approved June 23, 1913, making appropriations for the sundry civil
expenses of the Government, and with a plan of operations submitted
_ by the ethnologist-in-charge and approved by the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. The provision of the act authorizing the
researches of the Bureau of American Ethnology is as follows:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Amer-
ican Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and preserva-
tion of archzologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
_including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase

of necessary books and periodicals, including payment in advance for subscrip-
tions, $42,000.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

The systematic researches were conducted by the regular staff of
the bureau, consisting of nine ethnologists, including the ethnologist-
in-charge and several special investigators. These operations may
be summarized as follows:

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, was occupied during most
of the year with the administrative affairs of the bureau. Consider-
able attention, however, was devoted to the preparation of the anno-
tated bibliography of the Pueblo Indians, which is probably more
extensive than that of any other group of tribes, as Pueblo written
history commenced in the year 1539, and the writings pertaining
thereto are exceedingly voluminous. The bibliography is recorded
on cards, the number of which is now about 1,900. The cataloguing
of the vast amount of manuscript material bearing on the subject
has been somewhat simplified by the recent publication of Bolton’s
Guide to Materials for the History of the United States in the
Principal Archives of Mexico, published by the Carnegie Institu-
tion of Washington, and Twitchell’s Spanish Archives of New
Mexico, although without consultation of the documents themselves
it is not possible to give more than the title in most cases. In the

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

spring Mr. Hodge made a brief visit to the library of the Presby-
terian Board of Home Missions in New York City, where he was
enabled to record the titles of numerous published writings on mis-
sionary efforts among the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, not acces-
sible elsewhere. In this bibliographical work he has had the assist-
ance of Mrs. Frances 8. Nichols and Miss Florence M. Poast. | Mr.
Hodge continued to represent the bureau on the Smithsonian Ad-
visory Committee on Printing and Publication, and the Smithsonian
Institution on the United States Board on Geographic Names.

Early in the autumn of 1913 Mr. Hodge made a reconnoissance of
a group of ruins, evidently prehistoric, on a mesa rising from the
southwestern margin of the Cebollita Valley, about 20 miles south of
Grant, Valencia County, N. Mex., and only a few yards from the
great lava flow that has spread over the valley to the westward for
many miles. While no very definite information regarding the origin
of this ruined pueblo has yet been obtained, there is reason to suppose
that it was occupied by ancestors of the Tanyi, or Calabash, clan of
the Acoma tribe, and is possibly the one known to them at Kowina.

These ruins consist of a number of house groups forming a com-
pound. That the structures were designed for defense is evident, for
not only are they situated on an almost impregnable height rising
about 200 feet above the valley, but the houses themselves partake of ©
the form of fortifications, while the only vulnerable point of the
mesa is protected at the rim by means of a rude breastwork of stones.
Moreover, the outer walls of the buildings, some of which still stand
to a height of several feet, are pierced only with loopholes, entrance
to the structures doubtless having been gained by means of portable
ladders, as in some of the pueblos of to-day. The houses of the great
compound, consisting of four compact groups of buildings, were evi-
dently “terraced” on the plaza side, the rooms facing this court per-
haps having been only a single story in height. As a further protec-
tion to the pueblo, the eastern side was defended by a low wall,
pierced by three gatewaylike openings, extending from the north-
eastern to the southeastern corner of the compound.

The rooms indicated in the ground plan of the four house groups
number approximately 95 (for the northern group), 58 (eastern
group), 32 (central group), and 102 (southeastern group), or an
aggregate of 287 rooms. At the time of its occupancy the number of
rooms in the compound probably approximated 550. In addition,
there are traces of four or five single-story rooms abutting on the de-
fensive wall bounding the northeastern part of the compound. <A
short distance from the southwestern angle of the southwestern house
group are two smaller detached houses, the southernmost one con-
sisting of 24 rooms in a long tier, 2 rooms deep, extending approxi-
mately NNW. and SSE. The other structure, about 55 feet north-
Se
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

westward, is rectangular and contains 11 rooms in its ground plan.
Four kivas are traceable among the rooms of the main compound—
one in the northwestern, one in the central, and two in the southwest-
ern group. In each case, so far as is determinable without excavation,
the outer walls of the kivas are rectangular, while the inner walls are
circular and slightly recessed a short distance above the floor.

About 500 feet southeastward from the main compound, at the
edge of the mesa, stand the well-preserved walls of another structure,
consisting of a double row of rooms, the outer wall, or that over-
looking the mesa rim, extending 28 and 15 feet, respectively, beyond
the northwestern and southwestern corners of the building proper, in
order to give further protection. The length of this outer wall from
angle to angle is about 132 feet. It exhibits one of the finest ex-
amples of masonry to be seen in the ancient pueblo ruins of the
Southwest, for not only have the building stones been dressed to
shape, but their faces have been finished by pecking, with such labor
as to confirm the belief that the ancient village was designed for
permanent occupancy. The southern corner of the outer defensive
wall is not only curved, but the stones of which it is built are rounded
by careful pecking, a most unusual feature in pueblo architecture.
That this last structure was designed to protect the most vulnerable
part of the mesa is evident from the fact that the outer wall is with-
out openings of any kind and extends beyond the rooms of the struc-
ture, and because the adjacent mesa rim is protected by a rude low
wall, especially at such points as required ready defense against
attack from below. As already noted, the walls of these ruins are
noteworthy by reason of the excellence of their masonry, special
effort having been made to produce a pleasing effect in the exterior
faces. Of the inner walls so much can not be said; but as there is
no question that when the houses were occupied the rooms were
smoothly plastered, there was little need of the elaborate finish ac-
corded the exposed masonry. Slight attention was paid either to
regularity in the shape of the stones or to smoothness of surface in
building the inner walls, nor was the aboriginal mason more par-
ticular in bonding the inner and outer courses than in “ breaking”
the joints of the outer face. It seems remarkable that, possessed of
such patience and expertness as the builders here display in other
ways, they seem to have been unaware of the necessity of avoiding
the construction of their walls in such manner that in places as many
as SIX or seven vertical joints occur practically in line. In this brief
report only mere mention can be made of many other interesting
architectural features of these ruins, as well as of another pueblo
ruin, more or less circular in shape, situated a few miles northeast-
ward on a low mesa at the extreme head of Cebollita Valley, which
here forms a small but beautiful canyon.
4
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

The inhabitants_of the great compound first described obtained
their water supply by means of two principal reservoirs fed by the
drainage from the great sandstone shelf on the southern slope of the
mesa summit. These reservoirs are natural depressions in the rock,
but the epee of the larger one, which measures 35 by 90 feet and
is about 5 feet in maximum depth, has been greatly augmented on
the western side by an artificial retaining wall 14 feet long and 10
feet in thickness, with an exposed face of 24 feet on the reservoir side.
So well did this reservoir evidently serve the ancient mesa-dwellers,
that, during seasons of unusual rain, water still stands to a consider-
able depth within the depression. The smaller reservoir is triangular
in outline and measures about 15 by 19 feet. An interesting feature
in connection with the larger reservoir is the remains of a rude dike
extending 60 feet along the rocky shelf above referred to, built for the
purpose of diverting the flow of rain water from its natural course
into the reservoir.

Jt is not yet known where the ancients of this pueblo customarily
buried their dead, but probably the interments were made in the
talus of the mesa, as is the case with the Hopi, of Arizona, to-day.
There was found, however, in the corner of a shallow cavern in the
northern face of the mesa, above the talus, a small cist, formed by
a low and broken wall of masonry, which contained the somewhat
incomplete skeletons of two adult females, one incomplete skeleton
of a boy, and the incomplete and defective skeletons of two infants.
With one exception these remains had been greatly disturbed by
rats, which had burrowed their way through the bones and their
accompaniments to the bottom of the cist and fairly filled the re-
pository with cactus spines, excreta, and other débris of nest build-
ing. The remains were accompanied with several pottery vessels,
chiefly bowls, one of which was covered with a well-preserved mat,
plaited of a fibrous plant which Mr. Lyster H. Dewey, of the De-
partment of Agriculture, identifies as a scirpus, and almost cer-
tainly Scirpus validus. The ornamentation of this pottery, as well
as of the numerous sherds scattered about the ruins, consists of
plain red, black on red, white on red, plain black, black on white,
brown on white, brown on red, and many other combinations of
color. All the decorations noted were in geometrical designs.

On the northern face of the mesa, but practically hidden from
view except from one point in the valley below, is a small house
shelter of excellent masonry, built beneath an overhanging ledge
of the cliff which forms the roof. This shelter, which is provided
with a single small opening overlooking the valley to the northward,
was seemingly designed as a lookout station either for watching the
crops or an approaching foe. Across the valley, on the eastern side
of the first great mesa directly opposite that on which the ruins are
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

situated, is another small cliff lodge, now accessible only by artificial
means. Examination of the interior, as in the case of the cliff lodge
above described, yielded nothing of interest. Farther up the valley,
on the northern side, in plain view near the base of a mesa, is a larger
cliff lodge, filled to a considerable depth with detritus from the soft
stone forming the roof and side walls. Examination of the floor of
this lodge a few years ago by Mr. Hodge yielded a few corncobs,
one or two small objects made of yucca leaves, and a wooden drum-
stick of a form such as the Zui now employ.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, spent the month of July, 1913,
in the office continuing the preparation of his monographic report
on the aborigines of the West Indies, especially describing the many
objects from these islands in the noteworthy collection of George G.
Heye, esq., of New York. He made a visit to New York toward the
close of the month to study recent additions to this collection and to
supervise the preparation of the illustrations for his report. It
became necessary, in order to make this memoir as comprehensive
as possible, to investigate types of the Guesde collection, now owned
by the Museum fiir Volkerkunde in Berlin. Accordingly Dr. Fewkes
went to Kurope at his personal expense and spent August, Septem-
ber, and October studying these types and also many undescribed
Porto Rican and other West Indian objects in various museums.
Drawings of about 140 specimens, many of which have not been
described, were made during the course of these studies in Berlin.
He also visited the museum at Copenhagen, Denmark, which con-
tains many old specimens from the Danish West Indies and some
rare types of prehistoric objects from Porto Rico, all of which were
either drawn or photographed. West Indian objects were found also
in the museum collections of Leipzig, Dresden, and Vienna. Some
time was given to an examination of the dolmens and megaliths in
the neighborhood of. Berlin and elsewhere in northefn Germany, and
of the numerous mounds and prehistoric workshops on the island
of Riigen in the Baltic Sea.

Dr. Fewkes spent his vacation on the shore of the Mediterranean,
which he crossed, visiting the most striking ruins in Egypt, pene-
trating as far south as Assouan, and making special studies of the
remaining evidences of neolithic man at Abydos and El Kab on the
banks of the Nile. He had always in mind a study of prehistoric
irrigation in this region, with a view to comparing the works with
similar remains in Arizona. In the museums at Cairo and Assouan
Dr. Fewkes examined considerable material dating back to late
neolithic times and found a remarkable similarity not only in archi-
tectural features but also in stone implements, basketry, bone imple-
ments, and other artifacts from the valley of the Nile and those from
our Southwest. One of the important features of the visit to Egypt

73176°—sM 19144
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

was a study of methods of excavation and repair of ruins adopted
by Egyptologists. On his return from Egypt Dr. Fewkes passed
through Greece and southern Italy and was able to acquaint himself
with the method of excavation and repair of ancient ruins in these
countries, especially those on the Acropolis and at Pompeii.

Dr. Fewkes arrived in Washington in April and immediately re-
sumed work on his report on the Aborigines of the West Indies,
which was continued during April and the greater part of May. In
the latter month he again took the field and spent the whole of June
in archeological research in the Mimbres Valley, N. Mex. In
this work he was able to enlarge our knowledge of the distribution
of pottery symbols and to add important collections to the National
Museum. The Mimbres Valley is practically the northern extension
into the United States of an inland basin known in Chihuahua as
the Sierra Madre Plateau. The fact that its drainage does not con-
nect with any stream that flows into the Atlantic or the Pacific
Ocean imparts a peculiar character to its geographical environment.
On the southern part of this plateau, as along the Casas Grandes
River, mounds and ruins of large size are well known, from which
have been taken some of the finest pottery in the Southwest; but the
archeology of the extension of this plateau into New Mexico has
never been adequately examined. In his brief reconnoissance Dr.
Fewkes collected evidence that the prehistoric culture of the Mimbres
Valley was strikingly characteristic. The decorated pottery from
the ruins in this valley is unlike that of any other region. It con-
sists mainly of mortuary food bowls, which the prehistoric inhabit-
ants were accustomed to break or “kill” and place over the heads
of the deceased, who were buried beneath the floors of the houses.
About 60 specimens of beautiful pottery, more than half of which are
ornamented with painted figures of human beings and animals, were
found or purchased. As these are the first examples ever brought
to the National Museum from this region, the results are gratifying.
They afford through their geometrical ornamentation, and especially
because of the life forms which predominate, an interesting insight
into the ancient culture of the Pueblo region to the north and in the
Gila Valley to the west. It is Mexican in type, and some of the frag-
ments are practically identical in form and ornamentation with the
beautiful pottery from Casas Grandes, Chihuahua.

During the year Dr. Fewkes added about 350 pages of manu-
script to his report on the Aborigines of the West Indies, which was
approaching completion at the close of the year.

Shortly before the close of the preceding fiscal year Mr. James
Mooney, ethnologist, proceeded to the reservation of the East Chero-
kee Indians in western North Carolina for the purpose of continuing
the translation and elucidation of the large body of sacred formulas,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

written in the Cherokee language and alphabet, which he had ob-
tained from the native priests and their surviving relatives some
years ago, and about one-third of which he had already translated,
with explanatory notes. In connection with this work a large num-
ber of plants noted in the formulas as of medicinal or other value
were collected and transferred to the division of botany of the Na-
tional Museum for scientific identification. In this collection were
several specimens of the native corn of the Cherokee, still cultivated
as sacred by a few of the old conservatives. On examination by the
experts of the Department of Agriculture this corn was found to be
a new and hitherto undescribed variety of special food importance
under cultivation. Return was made from the field early in Octo-
ber, 1913. .

In June, 1914, a brief trip was made into Prince Georges and
Charles Counties, Md., for the purpose of investigating the status
and origin of some persons of supposedly Indian descent, con-
cerning whom several inquiries had come to the bureau. Mr.
Mooney found, as he had supposed, that these people, numbering in -
all several hundred, were, like the Pamunkey of Virginia and the
so-called Croatan of North Carolina, a blend of the three races, In-
dian, Negro, and White, with the Indian blood probably predominat-
ing. They constitute and hold themselves a separate caste, distinct
from both white and negro. They probably represent the mongrel-
ized descendants of the Piscataway tribe, and are sometimes locally
distinguished among themselves as “ We-Sort,” that is, “Our Sort.”

On June 22, 1914, Mr. Mooney again started for the East Cher-
okee to continue work on the sacred formulas, with a view to speedy
publication.

His time in the office during the winter and spring was occupied
chiefly with the extended investigation of former Indian population,
together with routine correspondence and replies to letters of in-
quiry. On request of the Department of Justice he prepared an
extended deposition on tribal ranges and Indian depredations in
northern Mexico and along the Rio Grande, which was officially
characterized as one of the most important and interesting that had
ever come before the department.

In pursuance of his investigations of the Creek Indians and allied
tribes, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, proceeded to Oklahoma
early in July to attend the busk ceremonies, and was present at those
of the Eufaula, Hilibi, Fish Pond, and Tukabachi Creeks. Notes
were taken on all of these and photographs obtained of various
features of all but the last. At the same time, with the valued as-
sistance of Mr. G. W. Grayson, of Eufaula, Dr. Swanton gathered
further ethnological information from some of the old people, and
continued this work after the ceremonies ceased. Somewhat later
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

he visited the small body of Indians in Seminole County who still
retain a speaking knowledge of Hitchiti, and added about 40 pages
of text to that previously obtained, besides correcting a portion of
Gatschet’s Hitchiti vocabulary. He made an arrangement with an
interpreter by which 100 pages of additional text were received after
his return to Washington.

While some time was devoted to studies of the Alabama, Hitchiti,
and Choctaw languages, most of Dr. Swanton’s attention while in
the office during the year was centered on two particular undertak-
ings. One of these was the proof reading of the Choctaw-English
section of Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary, and the compilation, with
the efficient help of Miss M. C. Rollins, of an English-Choctaw in-
dex, which will comprise about 350 printed pages, to accompany it.
The other was work on the first draft of an extended report on the
Creek confederacy, of which the historical part, consisting of 300
typewritten pages, is practically completed.

At the beginning of the year Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist,
* undertook the work of editing and copying the Seneca text “ Shago-
wenotha, or The Spirit of the Tides,” which was recorded by him in
the form of field notes in 1896 on the Cattaraugus Reservation, New
York. This particular piece of work, forming a text of 3,692 native
~ words, was completed in August, 1913. The task of making a literal,
almost an etymological, interlinear translation of this text was next
undertaken and was completed in November, yielding an aggregate
of 11,411 English words in the rendering. The other of the two
native texts in Seneca, “ Doadanegen and Hotkwisdadegena,” which
was recorded in the form of field notes by Mr. Hewitt in 1896, was
next edited and copied; this work was completed by the close of
December and consists of 4,888 native Seneca words. The literal
interlinear translation of this text then taken up was completed in
February, 1914, making 14,664 English words in the rendering.

On finishing these translations Mr. Hewitt commenced the read-
ing and digesting of the Seneca material of the late Jeremiah
Curtin for the purpose of providing notes and explanations to the
stories, a task that was made the more difficult by the fact that Mr.
Curtin’s field notes of explanation and identification are not avail-
able. One of the longest of the stories collected by Mr. Curtin,
“Doonogaes and Tsodiqgwadon,” comprising 149 typewritten pages,
required 144 notes varying in length from three or four lines to
several pages; but this story is of exceptional length. The entire
Curtin material has now been reread and annotated. Mr. Hewitt
also completed the notes for his introduction to the “Seneca Myths
and Fiction,” and the final writing was almost finished by the close
of the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

As opportunity offered, Mr. Hewitt continued to work on a sketch
of the Iroquois language, and he has now in hand about 75 pages of
manuscript, in addition to a considerable body of notes and diagrams
for incorporation into final form.

Mr. Hewitt also made a week’s study of the voluminous manu-
script “ Dictionary of Words that have been Made Known in or
Introduced into English from the Indians of North, Central, and
South America,’ compiled by the late William R. Gerard, with a
view of ascertaining its value for publication by the bureau. This
examination was made difficult by the fact that the compiler of the
dictionary had access to many works which were not available for
Mr. Hewitt.

Unfortunately the work summarized above was often interrupted,
owing to the need of frequently calling on Mr. Hewitt for the prepa-
ration of data for replies to correspondents, whose inquiries pertained
to linguistic, historical, sociological, and technical matters. In con-
nection with this work there were prepared 110 letters, rarely ex-
ceeding a page in length, although some occupied several pages and
required considerable study and research in gathering the needed
data for reply.

During the year Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, recorded the
rituals and accompanying songs of five additional Osage ceremonies,
known as Wawatho", Wadéka .Weko, Wazhitgao, Zhitgizhitga
Zhazhe Thadse, and Wéxthexthe. Of these the WAwatho" is com-
plete; the record fills about 150 pages, including songs, diagrams,
and illustrations. This ceremony, which is of religious significance
and is reverenced by all the people, has been obsolete for about 20
years, and there now remain only two men in the tribe who remem-
ber it in most of its details. It was a peace ceremony that held an
important place in the great tribal rites of the Osage, for through
its influence friendly relations were maintained among the various
gentes composing the tribe, and it was also the means by which
friendship with interrelated tribes was established and preserved.
Early French travelers mention this ceremony as being performed
by the Osage in one of the tribes of the Illinois confederacy during
the second decade of the eighteenth century. Unlike the Osage war
ceremonies, which are complex and composed of several steps or
degrees, the Wawatho® is simple and complete in itself. The “ pipes,”
sometimes called calumets, which are employed in its performance,
consist of a number of sacred symbolic articles, each of which, with
its attendant ritual, was in the keeping of a certain gens of the tribe.
The assembling of these articles formed an essential part of the
ceremony, for it was on this occasion that the ritual, which explained
both the significance of and the precepts conveyed by the sacred
articles, had to be recited. This Wawatho" ceremony resembled that
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

of the Omaha, Ponca, Oto, and Pawnee tribes, differing only in
minor details. To the intelligent thinking class the aims and pur-
poses of the ceremony are clear, but there are among the Osage, as
among other tribes, those who can not comprehend fully the deeper,
broader teachings of such a rite, and because of this restricted view
superstitious beliefs regarding it now prevail among the lower
classes.

The record of the Wadéka Weko, one of the seven war ceremonies,
consists of 89 pages of manuscript, with 32 songs. This rite, which
is the sixth degree of the war ceremony, is divided into eight parts,
exclusive of the introductory rites, and consists of rituals and songs
pertaining to the ceremonial cutting of the scalps for distribution
among the various gentes for their sacred packs. One of these parts
has to do with the odo”, or “honors,” won by the warriors in battle.
While this ceremony is recorded completely, it is not yet ready for
publication, since it 1s one of seven interdependent degrees the study
of which is not yet finished.

Wazhitgao, the bird ceremony for boys, is another of the seven
degrees, and is regarded as important. It has been transcribed in
full, but the notes thereon have not yet been elaborated for publica-
tion.

Zhitgizhitga Zhazhe Thadse (naming of a child), a ceremony that
bears no direct relation to any other, is regarded as essential to the
proper rearing of a child, and is still practiced. This ceremony has
been recorded in its entirety, but still lacks the descriptive annotation
necessary before publication.

The Wéxthexthe, or tattooing ceremony, the last of the five re-
corded by Mr. La Flesche, was taken down from its recitation by one
of the men who had participated therein. This transcription is still,
in a measure, fragmentary, but enough has been obtained to render
a fair idea of the significance of the tattoo designs employed. The
notes on the Wéxthexthe are not yet prepared for publication, as
there is still a possibility of recording the ceremony in its entirety.
A set of the implements used by the Osage in tattooing have been
obtained for illustration and have been deposited in the National
Museum. There has also been placed in the museum a waxdbeté"ga,
er great sacred pack, which once belonged to Wacéto"zhi"ga, a promi-
nent man of the tribe, who died in 1910. After much persuasion
his widow reluctantly consented to part with this sacred article, to-
gether with its buffalo-hair and rush-mat cases. This pack consists
of the skin and plumage of a white pelican, the bird which in Osage
mythology revealed through a dream the mysteries of tattoomg and
provided the implements therefor.

All the above-described ceremonies studied by Mr. La Flesche have
still a strong hold on the Osage people; this, together with the fact
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

that every initiated person acquired his knowledge at great expense,
has made it almost impossible to record the ceremonies in full from
those who have been induced to speak about them.

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, continued her studies of the
ethnology of the Tewa Indians of New Mexico, devoting special at-
tention to the pueblo of San Ildefonso, with a view of elaborating
her memoir on this group of tribes, which consists of about 400 pages
of manuscript, material relating to almost every phase of Tewa cus-
toms and beliefs having been added in whole or in part during
the course of the year. Perhaps the most important of the new data
gathered by Mrs. Stevenson on these interesting sedentary people
relate to their ceremonies with respect to human sacrifice. The con-
servatism of the Tewa and the secrecy with which most of their
numerous rites are conducted make them a difficult subject of study
and one requiring considerable time. Mrs. Stevenson’s memoir had
reached such a stage of completion that at the close of the year she
was making final arrangements for acquiring the materials still
needed for illustrations.

Shortly after the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Truman Michel-
son, ethnologist, proceeded to Tama, Iowa, to renew his researches
among the Fox Indians. After successfully commencing these studies
he proceeded to Tongue River Reservation in Montana for the pur-
pose of studying the remnant of the Sutaio tribe incorporated with
the Cheyenne. It seems that some ethnological information can still
be obtained in regard to specific Sutaio matters, but little of the lan-
guage remains. Dr. Michelson compiled a fairly large Sutaio vocab-
ulary, but fewer than a dozen words are fundamentally different
from the corresponding Cheyenne terms. Such grammatical forms
as could be obtained indicate that Sutaio sheds little or no light on
the divergent Algonquian type of the Cheyenne language.

Returning to Tama to renew his Fox studies, Dr. Michelson suc-
ceeded in elucidating the social organization almost to completeness.
It appears that the two major divisions of the tribe are not purely for
rivalry in athletics, but rather are ceremonial. Dr. Michelson was
successful also in obtaining the very long myths of the culture hero
and the Mother of all the Earth. It is evident that the actual Fox
society still corresponds in a measure to that given in the myths.

In October Dr. Michelson proceeded to Kansas to investigate the
Sauk and Fox of the Missouri. A reconnoissance only was made
here, and some of the Fox material obtained at Tama was translated.
In November he returned to Washington, and in January, 1914, vis-
ited the Carlisle Indian School for the purpose of studying special
points of grammar and phonetics with some of the Sauk and Fox
pupils. Thence he made a trip to New York City, taking with him
one of the pupils for the purpose of consulting Dr. Franz Boas, hon-
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

orary philologist of the bureau, on certain mooted points pertaining
to the Fox language. While in New York a few tracings were made
with the Rousselot apparatus.

In May Dr. Michelson again visited Carlisle for the purpose of
making a translation of the story of a sacred bundle of the Fox
Indians, which he has recently procured.

Toward the end of the fiscal year Dr. Michelson devoted some time
to the problem whether the Yurok and Wiyot languages of California
were Algonquian, as had been recently claimed, and reached the con-
clusion that the existing evidence does not justify such a classification.

Work on the Handbook of American Indian Languages was con-
tinued under the personal direction and editorship of Dr. Franz
Boas, honorary philologist. Part 2, which is in preparation, is to
contain grammatical sketches of the Takelma, Coos, Siuslaw, and
Alsea languages of Oregon; the Kutenai, of Montana; and the
Chukchee. The Takelma sketch was published in advance in sepa-
rate form in 1912. During the present year the printing of the
sketch of the Coos, by Leo J. Frachtenberg, which forms pages
297-429 of part 2, was finished. The manuscript of the Siuslaw,
also by Dr. Frachtenberg, was completed and revised, and, except for
a small part, is in galley form. ‘The Chukchee sketch likewise has
been set up in galleys and revised, and new material on the dialects of
the language, having become available, has been added. The print-
ing of the sketch proceeded necessarily slowly, since the notes had to
be read by the author, Mr. Waldemar Bogoras, who lives in Russia. A
full treatment of this grammar is particularly desirable, since it
serves to define the relationships of the American languages toward
the west. Dr. Frachtenberg, a fuller report of whose work will
follow, has made progress with his studies of the Alsea. The gram-
matical material and the texts have been extracted and studied, and
the latter, which are to form the basis of the sketch, have been copied
for the printer. Dr. A. F. Chamberlain, a valued collaborator, whose
untimely death we lament, furnished a sketch of the Kutenai lan-
guage. It was necessary to make a detailed study of this sketch.
This was done by Dr. Boas partly during the winter in New York
with the help of a Kutenai boy and partly during the month of June
among the Indians of Montana and British Columbia. The report on
this sketch was completed. A certain amount of preparatory work
for the sketch of the Salish language was also done, more particu-
larly a map showing the distribution of the Salish dialect, based on
researches by James Teit, was completed. ‘The expense of the field
work for this map, which has occupied four years, was met by Mr.
Homer E. Sargent, of Chicago, to whose lively interest in the Hand-
book and related subjects we are deeply indebted. The vocabularies
on which the map is based are in an advanced stage of preparation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5a

Much time was devoted by Dr. Boas during the year to the prepara-
tion of a report on the mythology of the Tsimshian Indians, based on
material written during a period of 10 years by Henry W. Tate,
himself a Tsimshian. Owing to his recent death it was necessary to
close the collection, the expenses of which have been defrayed from
private sources. 'The monograph was completed and is in type for
publication in the thirty-first annual report.

Brief reference to the researches of Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg,
ethnologist, has been made in connection with the preparation of
part 2 of the Handbook of American Indian Languages. The begin-
ning of the fiscal year found Dr. Frachtenberg in the field in Oregon,
where, from June to September he was engaged in linguistic and
ethnologic work on the Kalapooian family. During these months he
collected a number of grammatical notes and nine texts in the dialect
of the so-called Calapooia Proper, but owing to lack of sufficient
means for continuing this field work he was compelled to discontinue
it in October. The linguistic researches into the Kalapooian family
brought out a number of interesting points, of which the most salient
are as follows: Phonetically the family is related closely to the Lutu-
amian (Klamath) and Sahaptin groups. Certain pronominal forms
and a few numerical terms are identical with the Klamath and Sa-
haptin forms. In all other respects, chiefly morphological, Kal-
apooian bears close resemblance to the Coos, Siuslaw, and Yakonan
stocks. A particularly close affiliation exists between this and the
Coos family in the phonetic structure of words. While the phonetics
of both languages are divergent, both are what may be termed vocalic
languages and are practically free from any difficult consonantic
clusters. The Calapooia texts thus far obtained deal chiefly with
the Coyote cycle and are identical with myths found among the Coos,
Molala, Klamath, Maidu, Chinook, Alsea, Takelma, Salish, and other
tribes of the Pacific area. The mythology as a whole is typical of
that region in the absence of true creation myths and in the multitude
of transformation stories.

A survey of the linguistic phase of the Kalapooian stock shows it
to embrace the following dialects: Calapooia Proper (also called
Marysville), Chelamela, Yamhill, Atfalati, Wapato Lake, Ahant-
sayuk, Santiam, Lakmayut, and Yonkallat. These dialects show cer-
tain degrees of interrelationship, which may be formulated as follows:
Calapooia, Santiam, Lakmayut, and Ahantsayuk form one closely re-
lated group; another group embraces the Yamhill and Atfalati
dialects, while Yonkallat seems to constitute a group of its own. No
information as to the Chelamela dialect could be obtained.

In July Dr. Frachtenberg received what seemed to be trustworthy
information that some Willapa Indians were still living at Bay Cen-
ter, Wash., but on visiting that point he found the reputed Willapa
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

to be in fact members of the Chehalis tribe, thus proving conclusively
that the Willapa are entirely extinct.

Dr. Frachtenberg returned to New York late in October and was
engaged until the beginning of December in the preparation of the
Siuslaw grammatical sketch for the Handbook of American Indian
Languages, additional work on which became necessary because of
the fact that during his stay in the field he had received further in-
formation concerning this extinct stock. In December Dr. Frachten-
berg took up his duties in Washington, becoming first engaged in
supplying references from the Siuslaw texts in the grammatical
sketch of that language. At the close of the year this sketch was in
type. Dr. Frachtenberg also prepared for publication a Siuslaw-
English and English-Siuslaw vocabulary, containing 90 typewritten
pages. He furthermore prepared an English-Coos glossary, which
may be utilized in the near future, as it has been found desirable to
add such a glossary to each volume of native texts.

On completion of this work Dr. Frachtenberg commenced the
preparation of the Alsea texts collected by Dr. Livingston Farrand
in 1900 and by himself in 1910. These texts, consisting of 31 myths,
tales, and narratives, and comprising 195 typewritten pages, will be
submitted in the near future with a view to publication as a bulletin
of the bureau.

At the close of the fiscal year Dr. Frachtenberg was preparing for
another field season in Oregon, with the view of finishing his studies
of the Kalapooian stock and of conducting similar researches among
the Quileute.

Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the National Museum, continued his work
on the preparation of the Handbook of American Antiquities for
the bureau, reaching the practical completion of part 1 and making
much headway in the preparation of part 2; progress in this work,
however, was necessarily delayed owing to the pressure of many
duties connected with a head curatorship in the National Museum.

During August, 1913, Mr. Holmes made a visit to Luray, Va., for
the further study of an ancient village site near that place and the
examination of certain implement-making sites in the vicinity. In
June he visited Missouri for the purpose of studying certain collec-
tions owned in St. Louis and for the reexamination of an ancient
iron and paint mine at Leslie. It was found, however, that recent
mining operations had been carried so far that traces of the aborigi-
nal work at the mine were practically obliterated, and besides the
mine was found to be filled with water, making effective examina-
tion impossible. From St. Louis he proceeded to Chicago, where
studies were made of certain collections with a view of obtaining
data necessary to the completeness of the Handbook of American
Antiquities.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

In her studies of Indian music Miss Frances Densmore made two
trips to the Standing Rock Reservation, S. Dak. (one in July and
August, 1913, and one in June, 1914), where she engaged in investi-
gations at Bullhead, McLaughlin, and the vicinity of the Martin
Kenel School. This research completed the field work for the pro-
posed volume of Sioux music, the material for which, subsequently
prepared for publication, consists of 323 pages of manuscript, 98
musical transcriptions of songs, 20 technical analyses of songs, and 33
original illustrations.

The practical use which musical composers are making of the
results of Miss Densmore’s studies is very gratifying. Mr. Carl
Busch has adapted for orchestral purposes four of the songs rendered
by Miss Densmore and published by the bureau, as follows: (1) Chip-
pewa Vision, (2) Farewell to the Warriors, (3) Love Song, (4)
Lullaby. Mr. Heinrich Hammer, of Washington, has composed a
Sun Dance Rhapsody and a Chippewa Rhapsody. Mr. Charles
Wakefield Cadman has composed, for the voice, two of the Chip-
pewa songs, “ From the Long Room of the Sea” and “ Ho, Ye War-
riors on the Warpath.” Mr. 8S. N. Penfield has harmonized two vocal
quartets, “ Manitou Listens to Me” and “ Why Should I be Jealous? ”
For the violin Mr. Alfred Manger has prepared a “ Fantasie on Sioux
Themes,” and Mr. Alberto Bimboni has well advanced toward com-
pletion an opera bearing the title “The Maiden’s Leap.” Certain
of the orchestral arrangements have been played by the Chicago
Symphony Orchestra (formerly known as the Thomas Orchestra),
as well as by the symphony orchestras of Washington, Minneapolis,
and Kansas City. It is interesting to note the demand for Sioux
themes in advance of their publication. These have been furnished
in manuscript as far as possible to those desiring them for specific
and legitimate use. Two of the compositions in the foregoing list are
based on such themes.

Work on the volume of Sioux music is approaching completion.
This will be larger than either of the bulletins on Chippewa music,
and, while the same general plan has been followed, there will be
much that is new, both in subject matter and in style of illustration.

During the year work on the Handbook of Aboriginal Remains
East of the Mississippi was continued by Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr.,
under a small allotment from the bureau, and approximately 90,300
words of manuscript were recorded on cards geographically ar-
ranged. The entire amount of manuscript now completed is about
321,000 words, and the bibliography thus far includes 306 titles. As
a result of the notes received from the Wisconsin Archeological
Society, through the courtesy of its secretary, Mr. Charles E. Brown,
of Madison, every county of that State will be well represented in
the Handbook. It is to be regretted that more information regard-
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

ing aboriginal remains is not forthcoming from certain other parts
of the country east of the Mississippi, especially the New England
States, which at this writing are not adequately represented. The
bureau is indebted to Mr. Warren K. Moorehead, of the department
of archeology of Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., for the generous
use of original data gathered by him in Maine in advance of its
publication by the academy.

Mr. James Murie, as opportunity offered and the limitations of a
small allotment made by the bureau for these studies allowed, con-
tinued his observations on the ceremonial organization and rites of
the Pawnee tribe, of which he is a member. The product of Mr.
Murie’s investigation of the year, which was practically finished but
not received in manuscript form at the close of June, is a circum-
stantial account of “ The Going After the Mother Cedar Tree by the
Bear Society,” an important ceremony which has been performed
only by the Skidi band during the last decade.

In the last annual report attention was directed to a proposed
series of handbooks of the Indians of the several States and to the
arrangements that had been made for such a volume, devoted to the
tribes of California, by Dr. A. L. Kroeber, of the University of Cal-
fornia. The author has submitted sections of the manuscript of this
work for suggestion, and, although his university duties have delayed
its completion, there is every reason to believe that when the mate-
rial is finished and published it will form an excellent model for the
entire series. It has been hoped that the pecuniary means necessary
for the preparation of these State handbooks would be provided in
accordance with the estimate of an appropriation submitted for this
purpose, but unfortunately the desired provision was not made.

Prof. Howard M. Ballou, of Honolulu, has submitted from time
to time additional titles for the List of Works Relating to Hawaii,
compiled in collaboration with the late Dr. Cyrus Thomas. The
material for this bibliography is in the hands of Mr. Felix Neumann
for final editorial revision, and it is expected that the entire manu-
script will soon be ready for composition.

The large collection of manuscripts in possession of the bureau
has been in continuous charge of Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt. A few note-
worthy additions were made during the year besides those prepared
or which are in process of preparation by members of the staff.
Among these may be mentioned the “ Dictionary of Words that have
been Made Known in or Introduced into English from the Indians
of North, Central, and South America,” by the late William R.
Gerard, a work requiring many years of assiduous labor. The
manuscript was acquired for a nominal consideration from Mrs.
Gerard, and it is the design to publish the dictionary as soon as it
can be given the customary editorial attention. Before his death
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

Mr. Gerard presented to the bureau an original manuscript of 31
pages, with 21 diagrams, on “ Terminations of the Algonquian Tran-
sitive and Indefinite Verbs and their Meanings,” to which Dr. Tru-
man Michelson has appended a criticism.

Additional manuscripts worthy of special note are the following:

J. P. Dunn: Translation of Miami-Peoria Dictionary, Part 2, Aller to As-
somer. The original of this dictionary is in the John Carter Brown Library, of
Providence, through whose courteous librarian, Mr. George Parker Winship,
the bureau has been provided with a photostat copy.

J. P. Dunn: Translation of the History of Genesis, second chapter, from the
Miami-Peoria Dictionary above cited.

Cyrus Byington: Manuscript notebook, 1844-1848 and 1861. Kindly pre-
sented by Mrs. Eliza Innes, daughter of this noted missionary to the Choctaw.

James A. Gilfillan: Chippewa Sentences. A small quarto notebook kindly
presented by Miss Emily Cook, of the Office of Indian Affairs.

Parker Marshall: Various memoranda on the location of the Natchez Trace.

H. A. Scomp: Comparative Choctaw and Creek Dictionary, consisting of
1,054 sheets, 20 by 86 inches.

Francisco Pareja: Confessionario, in Spanish and Timuqua. Photostat copy
furnished by the courtesy of the New York Historical Society.

Francisco Pareja: Catechismo, in Timuqua. Photostat copy furnished by
the courtesy of the New York Historical Society.

Francisco Pareja: Explicacion de la Doctrina, in Timuqua. Photostat copy
furnished by the courtesy of the New York Historical Society.

VY. C. Fredericksen: Origin cf the Eskimo and their Wanderings, with photo-
graphs. (The author is a Danish missionary in Greenland.)

From time to time the bureau has been put to considerable expense
in having photostat copies made of unique manuscripts and of ex-
cessively rare books indispensable to its researches. It is therefore
fortunate that the opportunity was afforded, late in the fiscal year,
to acquire a photostat apparatus which has since been in constant
service. The urgent need of such an instrument was made especially
manifest when the Rev. George Worpenberg, S. J., librarian of St.
Marys College, St. Marys, Kans., generously accorded the bureau
the privilege of copying a number of valuable original linguistic
manuscripts in the archives of the college, pertaining chiefly to the
Potawatomi and including a dictionary and a grammar recorded by
the late Father Maurice Gailland. Manuscript copies of these volu-
minous linguistic works could have been made only after infinite
labor by an expert and at an expense far exceeding the entire cost of
the photostat apparatus. By the close of the year the making of the
facsimile reproductions had been commenced by Mr. Albert Sweeney,
under the immediate direction of Mr. De Lancey Gill, illustrator.

An opportunity was afforded at the close of the year to replace the
wooden partition and ceiling of the manuscript room with terra
cotta and to install a fireproof door and window coverings, thus
giving for the first time adequate protection to the bureau’s large
collection of priceless unpublished material.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,
PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work of the bureau has been continued by Mr. J. G.
Gurley, editor, who has been assisted from time to time by Mrs.
Frances §. Nichols. The following publications were received from
the press during the year:

Bulletin 53, “ Chippewa Music—II,” by Frances Densmore.

Bulletin 56, “‘ Ethnozoology of the Tewa Indians,” by Junius Henderson and
John P. Harrington.

“Coos: An Illustrative Sketch,” by Leo J. Frachtenverg. Extract from
Handbook of American Indian Languages (Bulletin 40), part 2.

The status of other publications, now in press, is as follows:

The proof reading of the Twenty-ninth Annual Report, the ac-
companying paper of which, entitled “ Ethnogeography of the Tewa
Indians,” by John P. Harrington, is an exhaustive memoir present-
ing many technical difficulties, was nearly completed during the year.
About two-thirds of the memoir is in page form.

The Thirtieth Annual Report comprised originally, in addition to
the administrative section, three memoirs: (1) “Tsimshian Myth-
ology,” by Franz Boas; (2) “ Ethnobotany of the Zuni Indians,” by
Matilda Coxe Stevenson; (8) “An Inquiry into the Animism and
Folk-lore of the Guiana Indians,” by Walter E. Roth. Extensive
additions to the first-named memoir, received after the report had
been put into type, necessitated the division of the contents, and
accordingly this section was transferred to the Vhirty-jfirst Report.
Approximately two-thirds of “Tsimshian Mythology” has been
paged, and the Zui memoir also, now the first accompanying paper
of the Thirtieth Annual, is in process of paging.

To the Thirty-second Report will be assigned a memoir entitled
“Seneca Myths and Fiction,” collected by Jeremiah Curtin and
J. N. B. Hewitt and edited with an introduction by the latter, the
manuscript of which is about ready for editorial revision.

Bulletin 40 (pt. 2), “ Handbook of American Indian Languages.”
The work on this bulletin has been carried along steadily under the
immediate supervision of its editor, Dr. Boas. Two sections—
Takelma and Coos—have been issued in separate form (aggregating
429 pages), and two additional sections, dealing with the Chukchee
and Siuslaw languages, respectively, are in type, the former being
“made up ” to the extent of about 50 pages.

Bulletin 46, “A Dictionary of the Choctaw Language,” by Cyrus
Byington (edited by John R. Swanton and Henry S. Halbert). The
first (Choctaw-English) section of this work was completed during
the year and is practically ready for the press. The manuscript of
the second section (English-Choctaw directory), comprising 36,008
entries on cards, was sent to the Printing Office April 30 to June 13,
but no proof had been received at the close of the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Bulletin 55, “ Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians,” by Wilfred W.
Robbins, John P. Harrington, and Barbara Freire-Marreco. After
this bulletin was in type it was found advisable to incorporate a con-
siderable amount of valuable material, subsequently gathered and
kindly offered by Miss Freire-Marreco. The change involved recast-
ing in a large measure the original work. The second galley proof
is in the hands of Miss Freire-Marreco for final revision.

Bulletin 57, “An Introduction to the Study of the Maya Hiero-
glyphs,” by Sylvanus Griswold Morley. The manuscript and illus-
trations of this memoir were submitted to the Public Printer the
latter part of April. Engraver’s proof of the illustrations, with the
exception of a few pieces of color work, have been received and
approved. Owing to the heavy pressure of public business, the
Printing Office had been unable to furnish proof of the letterpress by
the close of the year.

. Bulletin 58, “List of Publications of the Bureau of American

Ethnology.” The page proof of this bulletin is in the hands of the
printers for slight correction, preparatory to placing it on the press.

The total number of publications of the bureau distributed during
the year was 12,819, classified as follows:

Report volumes ‘and! separate’ papers!2U_ tO tad hoh 1t9U Gt Os 2,810
IBinlevin SSS rte tiie) eae ed ar EES 1S SAD Gy NERD Ty SE NE FETT TNS Py Leer: 9, 945
Contributions to North American. Hthnology——-<—-= ==.) i+ - 4-2 ts 22
TOSM ETO YG OVS FICO TTRS) See A ee ES oe Cs es Se Ss ee ee 5
MATS COU AME OU Semi) Ul OU Cais O10 Ss eee en ee oer ee Sek ee a 39

1 Gy TUE RSS EA BO OI Ot ie Mie 2 Oe wee Oe Ae 2 SS LOS Toes ee ee 12, 819

As during several years past the extensive correspondence arising
from the constant demand for the publications of the bureau has
been in immediate and efficient charge of Miss Helen Munroe and
Mr. E. L. Springer, of the Smithsonian Institution, assisted by Mr.
Thomas F. Clark, jr. The distribution of publications has been
made in accordance with law and with entire satisfaction by the
office of the superintendent of documents on order of the bureau.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The preparation of the illustrations for the publications of the
bureau, the making of photographs of the members of delegations of
Indians visiting Washington, and the developing and printing of
negatives made by the staff of the bureau during the prosecution of
their field work have been in charge of Mr. DeLancey Gill, illustrator,
assisted successively by Mr. Walter Stenhouse and Mr. Albert Sweeney.
In addition the numerous photostat copies of manuscripts and books,
aggregating about 2,500 exposures, have been made under Mr. Gill’s
supervision, as elsewhere mentioned, Of the visiting deputations, rep-
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

resenting 17 tribes, 79 photographic exposures were made; 92 negatives
of ethnologic subjects were required for reproduction as illustrations;
' 512 negatives made by the members of the staff in the field were
developed and 3881 prints made therefrom; 105 photographs were
printed for presentation to Indians and 627 for publication, exchange,
and special distribution. In addition to the photographic work,
which constitutes the major part of the illustrative material required
by the bureau, 54 drawings were made for reproduction.

The series of photographs, representing 55 tribes, which had been
exhibited by the New York Public Library and the Public Library
Commission of Indiana, was borrowed in June by the Providence
Public Library for a similar purpose.

LIBRARY.

The reference library of the bureau, which consists of 19,240 books,
about 12,894 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals, has .
been in continuous charge of Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by
Mrs. Ella Slaughter. During the year 708 books were accessioned, of
which 143 were acquired by purchase and 137 by gift and exchange,
the remaining 428 being represented by volumes of serials that
hitherto had been neither bound nor recorded. The periodicals cur-
rently received numbered 629, of which only 16 were obtained by pur-
chase, the remainder being received through exchange. Of pamphlets,
150 were acquired. During the year 1,195 volumes were sent to the
bindery and of these 695 were bound and returned to the bureau.

The endeavor to supply deficiencies in the sets of publications of
institutions of learning has continued without remission. Among
the more important accessions of this kind during the year were
Zeitschrift der Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde zu Berlin, 20 volumes;
Instituto Geografico Argentino, Boletin, 10 volumes; and Kénigliches
Museum fiir Vélkerkunde, Veréffentlichungen, 8 volumes.

The librarian has prepared a monthly bulletin of accessions for the
use of the staff, and has furnished information and compiled biblio-
graphic notes for the use of correspondents. In addition to the con-
stant drafts on the library of the bureau requisition was made on the
Library of Congress during the year for an aggregate of 300 volumes
for official use, and in turn the bureau library was frequently con-
sulted by officers of other Government establishments.

An appropriation having been made by Congress, in behalf of the
Institution, for installing modern steel bookstacks in the eastern
end of the large exhibition hall on the first floor of the Smithsonian
building, and provision having been made for affording the proposed
increased facilities to the library of the bureau, which for four and
a half years had been installed in the eastern galleries of the hall
mentioned, the books therein were removed in February to the gallery
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

and main floor of the western end of the hall and the eastern galleries
were demolished. Although this work of removal occupied two
weeks, it was done without confusion and practically without cessa-
tion of the library’s activities. The new stacks were in process of
erection before the close of the fiscal year.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections were acquired by the bureau or by mem-
bers of its staff, and, having served the purpose of study, were trans-
ferred to the National Museum, as required by law:

Hight fragments of ancient British pottery. Gift to the bureau by Rey. Robert
C. Nightingale, Swaffam, Norfolk, England. (55735.)

Potsherds, fragments of human bones, and three heads. Gift to the bureau by
Mrs. Bruce Reid, Port Arthur, Tex. (55758.)

Parts of five skeletons (three complete skulls and fragments of two skulls) from
a burial cist in a cave about 20 miles south of Grant, N. Mex. Collected by
EF. W. Hodge, Bureau of American Ethnology. (56134.)

Thirty-one ethnological objects from the Cherokee and Catawba Indians. Col-
lected by James Mooney, Bureau of American Ethnology. (563812.)

Six photographs of Aztec antiquities. Purchased from W. W. Blake, City of
Mexico. (56609.)

Stone phallus from Mesa Verde, Colo. Gift to the bureau by H. C. Lay, Tellu-
ride, Colo. (56719.)

Arrow point found on the north fork of Roanoke River, about 3 miles from
Blacksburg, Va. Gift to the bureau by Prof. Otto C. Burkhart, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Va. (56679.)

PROPERTY.

The principal property of the bureau consists of its library, com-
prising approximately 35,000 books and pamphlets, a large collection
of manuscripts for reference or in process of preparation for publi-
cation, and several thousand photographic negatives. With the
exception of a portion of the library, this material could not be
duplicated. In addition, the bureau possesses a photostat apparatus
with electric-light equipment, several cameras, dictagraphs, and other
appliances for use in conducting scientific research in the field and
the office, necessary office furniture and equipment, and a limited sup-
ply of stationery, supplies, etc. Also under control of the bureau,
but in immediate custody of the Public Printer, as required by law,
is a stock of numerous publications, chiefly annual reports and
bulletins. 7

MISCELLANEOUS.

Quarters —The only improvements made in the quarters occupied
by the bureau in the Smithsonian building, as set forth in the last
report, have been those incident to the reconstruction of the library
and the fireproofing of the manuscript room, above alluded to, and
the painting of the walls of four rooms, made necessary partly by

73176°—sM 1914 5

66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

inadequate lighting. In addition to the space previously occupied, a
room on the fourth floor of the eastern end of the Smithsonian build-
ing was assigned temporarily to the bureau for the use of two mem-
bers of its staff.

Office force—The personnel of the office has remained unchanged,
with the exception of the resignation of one messenger boy and the
appointment of another. It has been necessary to employ a copyist
from time to time in connection with the editing of Byington’s
Choctaw Dictionary. The correspondence of the bureau has been
conducted in the same manner as set forth in the last annual report
and as hereinbefore mentioned.

Recommendations.—The chief needs of the Bureau of American
Ethnology lie in the extension of its researches to fields as yet un-
exploited. Attention has frequently been called to the necessity of
pursuing studies among Indian tribes which are rapidly becoming
extinct, or modified by their intimate contact with civilization.
These researches can not be conducted unless the means are pro-
vided, since the present limited scientific corps, with inadequate
allotments of money to meet the expenses of extended field investi-
gations, is not equal to the immense amount of work to be done.
Unfortunately many opportunities for conducting these researches
which were possible a few years ago have passed away, owing to the
death of older Indians who alone possessed certain knowledge of
their race. Much can still be done, however, if only the means are
afforded. j .

It is scarcely necessary to repeat, in connection with this general
recommendation, the estimate for an increase, amounting to $24,800,
in the appropriation for the bureau and the brief reasons for urging
the grant of this additional sum, inasmuch as these items will be
found in the printed Estimates of Appropriations, 1915-16.

Respectfully submitted.

F. W. Hooper,
Ethnologist-in-charge.
The SrecreTARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
APPENDIX 3.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1914:

The congressional appropriation for the support of the service
during the year, including the allotment for printing and binding,
was $32,200 (the same amount as appropriated for the past six
years), and the repayments from private and departmental sources
for services rendered aggregated $5,264.18, making the total available
resources for carrying on the exchange system $37,464.18.

During the year 1914 the total number of packages handled was
341,667, an increase of 3,046 as compared with the preceding year.
The weight of these packages was 566,985 pounds, a decrease of
26,984 pounds.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
indicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight.

Sent. |Received.| Sent. Received.

Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad.......-.- TSI 469 ioe ce oo ae 04 700 lisscaese se
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents.|......-..- 2/1085 |ee eee see 9,913
United States departmental documents sent abroad......-.... OOF B20 so sae coe at 1995198) |e 22s seems
Publications received in return for departmental documents. .}.-...-.-.- 83 904-bentee keen 19, 080
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad.} 60,844 |..........- ISOS524. |S octecceeces
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received
from abroad for distribution in the United States........|......-.-- 95; 43 Ie Rete eeee 113, 511
Wie Se eee eRe Ser eee eee a ae ee oe | 292, 139 49,528 | 424,481 142, 504
Grariditotales teeth: Sees eee Ree ee nee k sae 341, 667 566,985

In April, 1914, the American-Chinese Publication Exchange De-
partment of the Shanghai Bureau of Foreign Affairs, which was
designated a few years ago by the Chinese Government as the
depository of the set of United States governmental documents
sent to that Government, signified its willingness to accept pack-
ages for miscellaneous addresses throughout the Chinese Republic

67
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

and forward them to their various destinations. Consignments in-
tended for distribution in China are, therefore, now sent in care of
that department instead of the Zi-ka-wei Observatory at Shanghai.

In this connection, it is desired to record here the Institution’s
appreciation of the valuable service rendered by the Zi-ka-wei
Observatory in the distribution of exchanges to correspondents
in China for nearly a quarter of a century.

The Smithsonian Institution, through the International Exchange
Service, continues to solicit publications for both foreign and do-
mestic governmental and scientific establishments. At the request
of the British ambassador, which was referred to this Institution
by the Department of State, many United States official publica-
tions were procured for the various Canadian departments and
bureaus. As formerly, aid has been rendered the Library of Con-
gress in obtaining from foreign Governments certain documents
especially desired for its collections.

Of the 2,465 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign
agencies for distribution, 280 boxes contained full sets of United
States official documents for authorized depositories and 2,185 were
filled with departmental and other publications for depositories of
partial sets and for miscellaneous correspondents. The number of
boxes sent to each foreign country and the dates of transmission
are shown in the following table:

Consigninents of exchanges for foreign countries.

Country. pes Date of transmission.

ARGENTINA. ...------- 45 | July 28, Aug. 22, Sept. 30, Oct. 27, Nov. 29, 1913; Jan. 20, Feb. 26, Apr. 9,
June 3, 1914.

IAI SIPRIAS Shanes dana te 91 | July 16, Aug. 12, Sept. 17, Oct. 15, Nov. 12, Dec. 10, 1913; Jan. 14, Feb.
18, Mar. 18, Apr. 17, May 19, June 17, 1914.

IBLGIUM cto. see see 64 | July 19, Aug. 8, Sept. 5, 27, Oct. 11, Nov. 8, 29, Dec. 20, 1913; Jan. 24,
Feb. 19, Mar. 21, Apr. 23, May 21, June 29, 1914.

IBOLIVIA .- betacee eee 6 | July 30, Oct. 4, Nov. 26, 1913; Feb. 4, Mar. 7, June 30, 1914.

PB RUA hese se sees cece 32 | July 28, Aug. 22, Sept. 30, Oct. 27, Nov. 29, 1913; Jan. 20, Feb. 26, Apr.
9, June 3, 1914.

BRITISH COLONIES... -- 20 | July 18, Aug. 2, 23, Sept. 6, 20, Oct. 10, 24, Nov. 14, 21, Dec. 5, 1913;
Jan. 10, 24, Feb. 6, Mar. 14, Apr. 4, 18, May 2, 24, June 6, 27, 1914.

BRITISH GUIANA....-- 4 | Nov. 5, Dec. 17, 1913; Mar. 14, June 30, 1914.

BUT GARTAS oe eraeiacrersiete 6 | Oct. 28, Nov. 25, 1913; Feb. 7, Mar. 14, May 14, June 24, 1914.

CANBDIAR sac cu cesses 5 | Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

(CHORE Yet ai: a 32 oe 23 | July 29, Aug. 3, Sept. 30, Oct. 27, Nov. 28, 1913; Jan. 20, Feb. 27, Apr.

~17, June 4, 1914.

CHINA PEALE urd 2. 38 | July 30, Aug. 31, Sept. 30, Nov. 15, 1913; Jan. 8, Mar. 9, Apr. 29, May
21, June 16, 1914.

COLOMBIALY: J3: 2 <f.i 16 | July 30, Nov. 26, 1913; Jan. 21, May 14, June 24, 1914.

COSTA TRICAS = see oe 16 | July 30, Oct. 6, Nov. 26, 1913; Jan. 21, Mar. 7, May 28, June 30, 1914.

CuBAEES . Sissi 722--* 5 | Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

DENMARK 6.00 --siss'49 40 | July 22, Aug. 19, Sept. 23, Oct. 21, Nov. 19, Dec. 20, 1913; Jan. 29, Feb.

21, Mar. 25, Apr. 24, May 27, June 25, 1914.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

69

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Country.

GREAT BRITAIN AND

TRELAND.

GRERGE settee dS

GUATEMALA. 22. j<~5-

LOURENGO MARQUEZ.
MANITOBA: 2. 5c.425:25

NEWFOUNDLAND....--
NEw SoutH WALES...

NEw ZEALAND.......

NIGARAGUAS : So555%.. -
INORWAY® 5.25 Joc dee cok

ONTARIO: - 32232 e
IPAGESTIN ES 62 LL a2tecs

Number

of boxes.

448

16

“1

ow

39

50

86

13

Date of transmission.

July 30, Oct. 6, Nov. 26, 1913; Feb. 4, Mar. 7, May 21, June 30, 1914.

Sept. 11, Oct. 25, Nov. 29, Dec. 30, 1918; Jan. 23, Feb. 21, Apr. 3, 28,
June 10, 1914.

July 10, 31, Aug. 14, 28, Sept. 18, Oct. 8, 29, Nov. 19, Dec. 3, 24, 1913;
Jan. 14, Feb. 4, 18, Mar. 11, Apr. 8, May 6, June 10, 1914.

July 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 30, Aug. 5, 12, 19, 26, 29, Sept. 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, Oct.
7, 14, 21, 28, Nov. 4, 11, 19, 25, Dee. 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, 1913; Jan. 6, 13, 20,
27, Feb. 3, 10, 17, 24, Mar. 3, 10, 17, 24, 30, Apr. 7, 15, 28, May 5, 12, 26,
June 2, 16, 23, 30, 1914.

July 12, 18, 25, Aug. 2, 8, 15, 23, 29, Sept 6, 12, 20, 26, Oct. 3, 10, 17, 24,
Nov. 1, 7, 14, 21, 29, Dec. 5, 12, 19, 27, 1913; Jan. 3, 10, 17, 24, 31, Feb.
6, 13, 20, 27, Mar. 6, 14, 20, 27, Apr. 4, 11, 18, 25, May 2, 9, 23, June 1,
6, 13, 20, 26, 1914.

July 22, Aug. 28, Sept. 25, Oct. 13, Dec. 17, 1913; Jan. 31, Mar. 7, May
15, June 23, 1914.

July 30, Oct. 6, Nov. 28, 1913; Feb. 4, Mar. 7, May 21, June 30, 1914.

Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

Aug. 28, Nov. 15, 1913; Feb. 5, Mar. 7, June 12, 1914.

July 16, Aug. 12, Sept. 17, Nov. 12, Dec. 10, 1913; Jan. 14, Feb. 18, Mar.
18, Apr. 17, May 19, June 17, 1914.

July 12, 18, 25, Aug. 2, 15, 23, Sept. 6, 20, 26, Oct. 10, 17, 24, Nov. 14,
Dec. 5, 19, 1913; Jan. 3, 10, 24, Feb. 6, 18, 20, Mar. 6, 14, 20, 27, Apr. 11,
25, May 2, 23, June 6, 20, 25, 1914.

Aug. 7, Sept. 11, 27, Oct. 11, 25, Nov. 8, 29, Dec. 30, 1913; Jan. 23, Feb. 21,
Mar. 7, Apr. 28, June 30, 1914.

Aug. 27, Oct. 30, Nov. 29, Dec. 7, 1913; Mar. 20, June 12, 25, 1914.

July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 24, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, Dec. 20,1913; Jan. 27, Feb. 24,
Apr. 28, June 5, 1914.

Aug. 27, Oct. 31, 1913; Feb. 7, June 12, 1914.

July 31, Oct. 31, Nov. 29, 1913; Mar. 7, May 14, 1914.

Aug. 27, Dec: 17, 1918; June 18, 1914.

Sept. 22,1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

Dec. 17, 1913; June 18, 1914.

July 15, Aug. 5, 26, Sept. 23, Oct. 14, 28, Nov. 18, Dec. 16, 1913; Jan. 6,
Feb 3, 24, Mar. 24, Apr. 21, May 12, June 9, 1914.

Jan. 5, June 30, 1914.

July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 22, Dec. 23, 1913; Jan. 27, Feb.25,
Mar. 25, May 7, June 12, 1914.

July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, Dec. 23, 1913; Jan. 29, Feb. 25,
Mar. 27, May 7, June 16, 1914.

Aug. 28, Nov. 15, 1913; Feb. 5, Mar. 7, June 12, 1914.

July 22, Aug. 19, Sept. 23, Oct. 21, Nov. 19, Dec. 20, 1913; Jan. 30, Feb. 21,
Mar. 25, Apr. 24, May 28, June 25, 1914.

Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

Sept. 30, 1913.

Aug. 28, Noy. 15, 1913; Feb. 4, May 15, June 30, 1914.

July 29, Aug. 22, Sept.30, Oct. 27, Nov. 29, 1913; Jan. 20, Feb. 27, June 4,
1914.

July 22, Aug. 19, Sept. 23, Oct. 21, Nov. 19, Dec. 20, 1913; Jan. 30, Feb. 21,
Mar. 25, Apr. 24, May 28, June 25, 1914.

Sept. 22, 1913; Jan. 12, Feb. 21, Apr. 14, May 12, 1914.

July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, Dec. 23, 1913; Jan. 29, Feb. 25,
Mar. 27, May 7, June 16, 1914.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Country. oar Date of transmission.

FROUMANTAS 225/23. 13 | July 31, Aug. 30, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 29,1913; Feb. 7, Mar. 12, May 14,
June 24, 1914.

IRUUSSTAS se cee yeicio seas 92 | July 17, Aug. 18, Sept. 18, Oct. 16, Nov. 18, Dec. 11, 1918; Jan. 16, 24,
Feb. 19, Mar. 19, May 20, June 18, 1914.

SAGVADOR =. 22h i ea-i6 8 | July 30, Oct. 6, 24, Nov. 28, 1913; Feb. 4, Mar. 7, June 12, 1914,

SERVIACS S55 28-2 ee 13 | July 17, Sept. 25, Nov. 15, 1913; Jan. 21, Mar. 7, May 28, June 24, 1914.

STAMEE 2 708 ee gM 5 | Aug. 27, Nov. 29,1913; Feb. 7, Mar. 28, June 30, 1914.

SoutH AUSTRALIA...- 18 | July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 25, Dec. 23, 1913; Jan. 28, Feb.
25, Mar. 27, May 7, June 15, 1914.

SPAIN 62-3) Bee pest 30 | Aug. 7, Sept. 11, Oct. 25, Nov. 29, Dec. 30, 1913; Jan. 23, Feb. 21, Apr. 3,
June 10, 1914.

SWEDENS. 2 Gade 22 72 | July 17, Aug. 14, Sept. 18, Oct. 16, Nov. 13, Dec. 11, 1913; Jan. 16,
Feb. 19, Mar. 19, Apr. 20, May 20, June 18, 1914.

SWITZERLAND..-...-.- 54 | July 19, Aug. 7, Sept. 5, 27, Oct. 11, Nov. 8, 29, Dec. 20, 1913; Jan. 24,
Feb. 19, Mar. 21, Apr. 23, May 21, June 19, 1914.

DSYRIAI Oe ste b JS. 6 | Apr. 26, May 27, June 25, 1914.

DAS MANTA: onjceeeeee 12 | Aug. 2, 23, Sept. 6, 20, Oct. 24, Nov. 14, Dec. 19, 1913; Feb. 13, Apr. 11, 25,
June 25, 1914.

TRINIDAD eee hoe 3 | Mar. 7, 30, June 12, 1914.

DURE Ye < je) ccs os cis: 14 | Aug. 30, Sept. 30, Oct. 23, Nov. 15, 1913; Jan. 8, 23, Feb. 28, Mar. 7, Apr.
30, May 27, June 25, 1914.

UNION OF SOUTH 24 | Sept. 25, Oct. 31, Nov. 29, 1918; Jan. 26, Feb. 28, May 13, June 23, 1914.

AFRICA. ,

URUGUAY? A255 22 ue. 21 | July 29, Aug. 22, Oct. 4, Nov. 26, 1913; Jan. 21, Feb. 27, June 4, 1914.

WIE NISZ URW AGs sence eee 11 | Oct. 4, Nov. 26, 1913; Jan. 21, Mar. 7, May 28, June 30, 1914.

VICTORIAS <2 (9S 2022 29 | July 24, Aug. 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 23, Nov. 22, Dec. 23, 1913; Jan. 28, Feb.
25, Mar. 27, May 7, June 15, 1914.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA. 24 | July 12, 25, Aug. 23, Sept. 6, 20, Oct. 3, 17, 24, Nov. 21, Dec. 5, 19, 1913;
Jan. 10, 24, Feb. 6, 20, Mar. 6, 20, Apr. 4, June 13, 1914.

WINDWARD AND LEE- 3 | Oct. 31, 1913; Feb. 7, June 12, 1914.

WARD ISLANDS.

In October, 1918, the New York forwarding agents informed the
Institution that boxes 1179 and 1598, which were sent to them under
date of March 28 and May 15, 1913, respectively, for transmission to
his Japanese Majesty’s residency general at Seoul, Korea, had been
lost in transit by the steamship company. These consignments con-
tained publications from both governmental and scientific establish-
ments for distribution to Korean correspondents, and duplicates of
as many of them as were available for distribution were obtained and
forwarded to their destinations.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

No additions were made to the foreign depositories of full or par-
tial sets during the year, 56 full sets of United States official publica-
tions and 36 partial sets now being forwarded regularly to desig-
nated depositories abroad.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71

The recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

Baven: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the Grand Duchy
of Baden.)

Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BompBay: Secretary to the Government, Bombay.

Brazi.: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

BuENos Atres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CuiIna: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLOMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

Cuspa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

GLAscow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

Inp1A: Department of Education (Books), Government of India, Calcutta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Iraty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of the
London County Council.)

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New SourH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PortTUGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Ko6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

QUEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

SouTH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Spatn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultatiyo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TURKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

UNION oF SoutTH AFrRiIcA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urnueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTTEMBERG: KO6nigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: K. Ministerium ftir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

Bo.tiviA: Ministerio de Colonizacion y Agricultura, La Paz.

BREMEN: Senatskommission ftir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.

BRITISH CoLUMBIA; Legislative Library, Victoria.

BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

ButeariA: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

CryLon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Eeyrer: Bibliotheque Khédiviale, Cairo. é

FINLAND: Chancery of Governor, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hampure: Senatskommission ftir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

LourENcO Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Lutseck: President of the Senate.

Mapras, PRovINCE oF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matra: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

MonTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NORTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

ParaAcuay: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RouMAntIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Satyapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OupH: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad. .

VIENNA: Btirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS.

A list of the countries which have entered into interparliamentary
exchange of official journals with the United States is given below:

Argentine Republic. Italy.

Australia. Liberia.

Austria. New South Wales.
Baden. _ New Zealand.
Belgium. Portugal.

Brazil. Prussia.

Buenos Aires, Province of. Queensland.
Canada. Roumania.

Cuba. Russia.

Denmark. Servia.

Trance. Spain.

Great Britain. Switzerland.
Greece. Transvaal.
Guatemala. Union of South Africa.
Honduras. Uruguay.
Hungary. Western Australia.

As will be noted, there are at present 32 countries with which the
immediate exchange is conducted, no additions having been made
during the year.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE
TRANSMITTED.

The following is a list of the bureaus or agencies through which
exchanges are transmitted:

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Reconquista 5388,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

AzorgEs, via Portugal.

Bretcium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.

Bo.iviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro. ,

British CoLonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.*

British GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuLcGariA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, vid Spain.

CuILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bu-
reau of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoLomBiIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

1 This method is employed for communicating with several of the British colonies with
which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutrcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eayper: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, Vid Denmark.

GUADELOUPE, via France.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

GUINEA, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Hitat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

HonpurAs: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hunecary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, Vaci-utca 80, Buda-
pest.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpDIA: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Tray: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea: His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s Residency-General, Seoul.

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LouRENcO MARQuEZ: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

LUXEMBURG, via Germany.

MapaGAscarR, vid France.

Mappriga, via Portugal.

Mownrenrecro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

MogaMBIQueE, via Portugal,

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden. ;

New GUINEA, via Netherlands.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PortuGaL: Servico de Permutacédes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon,

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg. ,

Satvapok: Ministerio de Relaciones’ Exteriores, San Salvador.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

Servi: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AustraLia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueédlogos, Madrid.

SUMATRA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale

Centrale, Berne,

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TurKEY: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.

Union oF SoutH ArricaA: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.

It is my sad duty to record here the death on June 25, 1914, of Dr.
F. W. True, the Assistant Secretary in charge of Library and Ex-
changes. Dr. True was in charge of the exchanges a little over three
years, having been appointed June 11, 1911. His official connection
with the Institution, however, dates from 1881. During his in-
cumbency Dr. True took special steps to increase the efficiency of the
Exchange Service. Recently he addressed communications to the
chiefs of the various foreign exchange bureaus and establishments
acting as distributing agencies, requesting them to furnish him with
certain statistical information regarding the exchanges carried on
under their supervision for use in connection with the preparation
of an article on the present condition of the International Exchange
Service throughout the world which he had under way.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk International Fxchange Service.

- Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Aveusr 5, 1914.
APPENDIX 4,

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report concerning the
operations of the National Zoological Park during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1914.

By the sundry civil act approved June 23, 1913, Congress allowed
$100,000 for improvement and maintenance. The cost of food for
the animals during the year was $23,200, an increase of about $3,000;
considerable repairs were required to some of the older buildings,
and a large amount of damage on the grounds was done by a heavy
storm. The amount remaining available for improvement and ex-
pansion therefore was proportionately reduced.

ACCESSIONS.

The most important accessions were a male hippopotamus, a pair
of young Bengal tigers, a pair of young lions, a sable antelope, and
an American white crane. The animals mentioned in the last annual
report as on their way from the Government Zoological Garden at
Giza, Egypt, arrived early in the present fiscal year. Among them
were a pair of young African elephants and a pair of cheetahs.
The total expended for the purchase and transportation of animals
was $7,450, which includes $1,900 paid for bringing over the animals
from Giza.

Mammals and birds were born and hatched in the park to the num-
ber of 95, including bears of four species, an otter, five mink, several
monkeys, a llama, a chamois, an Arabian gazelle, various deer, two
American white pelicans, and some other mammals and birds.

EXCHANGES.

Comparatively few exchanges were made during the year. Among
animals obtained by this means were a leopard, a Japanese bear, a
white-tailed gnu, several other mammals, and a few birds and large

snakes.
GIFTS.

Miss M. H. Berger, Washington, D. C., an alligator.
Mr. Walter Brown, Washington, D. C., a broad-winged hawk.
Dr. D. EB. Buckingham, Washington, D. C., a coyote.

76
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 77

Mrs. Charlotte Buford, Washington, D. C., a red-fronted parrot.

Mrs. M. E. Butler, Washington, D. C., a Belgian hare.

Mr. Walter Campbell, Alexandria, Va., a woodchuck.

Mrs. C. E. Clark, Washington, D. C., a finch.

Mrs. Thomas W. Coskery, Flemingsburg, Ky., a bald eagle.

Mrs. Ida M. Dalton, Washington, D. C., a broad-winged hawk.

Miss Elizabeth Eccleston, Forest Glen, Md., a common ferret.

Lieut. J. H. Everson, United States Navy, a roseate spoonbill.

Mr. W. I.. Field, Washington, D. C., a Gila monster.

Capt. 8S. 8S. Flower, Giza, Egypt, an Arabian baboon.

Mrs. Elsie Frizzell, Washington, D. C., an American magpie.

Mr. F. P. Hall, Washington, D. C., a muscovy duck.

Mr. Hugh G. Harp, Bluemont, Va., a Cooper’s hawk.

Mr. Hendley, Washington, D. C., a brown capuchin.

Mrs. C. B. Hight, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Miss Barbara Hubbard, Washington, D. C., three common canaries.

Mrs. Hughes, Washington, D. C., a goldfinch.

Mr. C. E. Hunt, Washington, D. C., a cardinal and four doves.

Mrs. Lieber, Philadelphia, Pa., an alligator.

Miss Annie C. Linn, Alexandria, Va., a raccoon.

Asst. Paymaster Stanley Mathes, United States Navy, a paca.

Miss Maria I. McCormack, Washington, D. C., a Cuban parrot.

Mr. E. B. McLean, Washington, D. C., a peafowl.

Mr. Mills, Washington, D. C., a common canary.

Mr. A. M. Nicholson, Orlando, Fla., 12 young water moccasins.

Mr. R. G. Paine, Washington, D. C., a hog-nosed snake.

Mr. W. W. Reese, Ironton, Va., a bittern.

Mr. Peter Simon, Washington, D. C., a hog-nosed snake.

Mr. J. T. Smoot, Smoot, W. Va., a horned owl.

Mr. Andreas Soto, Cape San Antonio, Cuba, two white-headed doves.

Hon. William J. Stone, United States Senate, a raccoon.

Mr. F. A. Thackery, Sacaton, Ariz., a spotted lynx, two Gila monsters, and a
normed lizard.

Mr. H. W. Wheeler, Street, Md., a black snake.

Hon. Woodrow Wilson, Washington, D. C., three opossums.

Unknown donor, a pigeon hawk.

LOSSES.

The losses were distributed throughout the collection, the more
important being a lion, a cougar, a guanaco, a gazelle, and an Ara-
bian baboon which died from pneumonia; an East African buffalo,
a gnu, a mandrill, and a Malay bear from tuberculosis; two lions, a
tiger, a moose, and an American bison from gastritis and enteritis;
a rhea, a sarus crane, a flamingo, and a great bustard from asper-
gillosis; and several mammals and birds as the result of fighting and
accidents. A number of birds were killed by predatory animals
living at large in the park.

Such of the dead animals as were of value for study or for other
museum purposes were transferred to the National Museum to the
number of 88. Autopsies were made, as usual, by the Pathological
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of Agri-
culture.*
ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1914.

MAMMALS.
Green monkey (Cercopithecus callitri- |) Gray wolf (Canis occidentalis) _______ 4
CIUU8) eee ee ee ee et a Les Coyote Cais) LGtiCis) se 4
Mona monkey (Cercopithecus mona) —_ 2 | Woodhouse’s coyote (Canis frustror) —_ 3
Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana) —_ 1 | Red fox (Vulpes pennsylvanicus) —_—__ 5
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus  fuligi- Swift fox (Vulpes, velor) 22.2 2= = 2
UO S11) ee ee 1 | Arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus)——___—___— 1
Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus) ~~~ 1 | Gray fox (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) — 5
Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomol- Spotted hyena (Hyena crocuta)—_~~___ 1
U8) ye OE oS a eee eee 2 | African palm civet (Viverra civetta)_ 1
Pig-tailed monkey (Macacus nemes- Common genet (Genetta genetta)—____ 2
GUUIVILS)) ee ee a SER aS 5 | Cheetah (Cynailurus jubatus) ~~ ~____ 2)
Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus) _-_-__ 15 | Sudan lion (Jelis leo) _______________ 3
Brown macaque (Macacus arctoides) —_ 3 | Kilimanjaro lion (Felis leo sabakiensis)_ 2
Japanese monkey (Jfacacus fuscatus) — SP cer (MEM Sng res) ee ean ee eee 2
Black ape (Cynopithecus niger) ---—~~ 1 Cougar (Felis oregonensis hippolestes) — of)
Chaema (Papio porcarius) ——__—-___—- tiigWJacvanr) (Heliswionea) je il
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) — 3u|) weopardl) (Hels pandus) a ee 3
Mandrill (Papio maimon) —_-_--------- 1 | Black leopard (felis pardus)_~_______ 1
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyt) — 1 Canada lynx (Lyne canadensis) _____— if!
White-throated capuchin (Cebus hy- Bay dyna? (ayna uf) —* ee eee 8
DOLCUCUS) 2 a ee 1 | Spotted lynx (Lyn# rufus terensis)_.__ 2
Brown monkey (Cebus fatuellus) ~~~ 1 | Florida lynx (Lyng rufus floridanus)__ 1
Durukuli (Nyctipithecus trivirgatus) —— 1 | Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias stelleri)_ 1
Mongoose lemur (Lemur mongoz) —~———- 1 | California sea lion (Zalophus californi-
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) ~—---~ 2 QNU8) sete ees See te Se eth oe 2
Garnett’s galago (Galago garnetti) ——_ 1 | Northern fur seal (Callotaria alascana) _ 1
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus ) ——~ 2 | Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) _____-____ 2
European brown bear (Ursus arctos) —— 2 | Fox squirrel (Sciwrus niger) ———______— 9
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) _----~ 1 | Western fox squirrel (Sciwrus ludovi-
Yakutat bear (Ursus dat) —~.-2—-2—--_- 1 CLONAUS)) (ee ee Se te Ed oct fess Be] 8
Alaskan brown bear (Ursus gyas)—~—-~ 3 | Gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis). 40
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _-_-_-_-_ 2 | Black squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis). 20
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) ___ 1 | Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) — al!
Japanese bear (Ursus japonicus) ——-_- 1 | Prairie dog (Cyomys ludovicianus)__- 54
Grizzly bear (Ursus herribilis) _____-~ 8 | Albino woodchuck (Arctomys monaz) _ 1
Black bear (Ursus americanus) ~—~~--- 9 | Alpine marmot (Arctomys marmotta) — 1
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus) ——~ 2 | American beaver (Castor canadensis) — 6
Sloth bear (Melursus wrsinus) —---~-~—- 1 | Hutia-conga (Capromys pilorides)—___~ 1
Kinkajou (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) — 1 | Indian porcupine (Hystrix# leucura) ~~~ 2
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astuta) ~~~ 1 | Canada porcupine (Hrethizon dorsatus) — 1
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) ——_--- 5 | Canada porcupine (Hrethizon dorsatus)
Raceoon (Procyon lotor) ~----------- 10 albinont2 $2) oe SSS ee 1
American badger (Taxidea tarus)____ 8 | Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mexicana) — 1
Common skunk (Mephitis putida) —~~~~ 4 | Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@) —____ 2
American marten (Mustela americana) — 4 | Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) __ 2
Fisher (Mustela pennantti) _--_-_------ 1 | Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta prym-
Mink (Putorius vison) —-_-_~-~__-___ 13 molopNa) L212 Be aki USE eee 2
Common ferret (Putorius putorius) ~~~ |) Paca:(Oelogenys paca) 23224) eS 3
Black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes) — 1 | Guinea pig (Cavia cutlert)———__—== =—— 13
North American otter (Lutra cana- Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis patago-
Gensis) | 2evert Ss 2 prea ae ee 2 NACH) sees Ete ee See ee 1
Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris) ~._-~~—~ 18 | Capybara (Hydrocherus capybara) ——~ il
Dingo. (Onis dingo) 222-— = il | Domestic rabbit (Lepus cuniculus)_-_-_— 15

1The causes of death were reported to be as follows: Enteritis, 23; gastritis, 2; gastro-
enteritis, 2; pneumonia, 15; pleuropneumonia, 1; congestion of lungs, 2; tuberculosis,
10; aspergillosis, 4; septicemia, 2; congestion of liver, 1; rupture of heart, 1; impaction
of gall bladder and ducts, 1; impaction of stomach with stones, 1; tumor, 1; purulent
conjunctivitis, 1; cataract, 1; congelation, 1; anemia due to old age, 2; accident, 3; and
undetermined, 4,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

79

Animals in the collection June 30, 1914—Continued.

MAMMALS—Continued.

Cape hyrax (Procavia capensis) ~----~
African elephant (Hlephas oxyotis) ~~~
Indian elephant (Hlephas mazimus)—~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus americanus) —
Grevy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi) --------
Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-ca-

ballus)
Zebra-donkey hybrid

asinus)
Grant’s zebra (Hquus burchelli granti)_
Collared peceary (Dicotyles angulatus)
Wildapoar(Sws scrofa) = 2225 ee
Northern wart hog (Phacocherus afri-

canus)
Hippopotamus

phibius)
Guanaco (Lama huanachus)—--~-----~-~
Mama CLAamMe- Glam) —s22 eee ae
AIDACHMCMOMman DLCs) aoe
Vicugna (Lama vicugna)———___-_____
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus)_
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius) —
Sambar deer (Cervus aristotelis)_____
Philippine deer (Cervus philippinus) —_
Hog deer (Cervus porcinus) _-_------~_
Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucelii) —
Axis deer’ (Cervus aais) [220 eee
Japanese deer (Cervus sika)--------~
Red deer (Cervus elaphus) _---_------_
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Fallow deer (Cervus dama)_—~--------
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus)
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionrus) ~---~
Columbian black-tailed deer (Odocoileus

columbianus)
Cuban deer (Odocoileus sp.) ---__-_-___-

(Zquus grevyi-

(Hippopotamus —am-

Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) —~---~-
Brown thrasher (Toxwostoma rufum)-—-
Japanese robin (Liothria luteus) —---~
Laughing thrush (Garrular_ leucolo-

MV TVU:S))) | take eee ogre ty ea SE eb eats pte ae
Bishop finch (Tanagra episcopus) ~~~
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) __
Zebra finch (Amadina castanotis) ___~
Black-headed finch (Munia _atrica-

POULT) EE Ns SETAE YA SE EY
Three-colored finch (Munia malacca) —~
White-headed finch (Munia maja) _~-~
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) —__
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora)_____-
White Java sparrow (Munia oryzi-

VOTH) “2 2hssaaasn acne casas al!
Sharp-tailed grass finch (Poéphila acu-

CGEUM) LL SEO TE Se ee
Silver-bill finch (Aidemosyne cantans) _—
Chestnut - breasted finch (Donacola

castaneothoram) 282 Me Sal Bo eee
Napolean weaver (Pyromelana afra) ——
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-

COPLCIUR IS) eee Se ee
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea) —___

ad bo ee bb bo

eo Re be

bo

=
PRR OANOCONNREPwWwWhHhywabd bd

_

1

Prong-horn
GINGTACO NG) is oe oe) ee ane,
Coke’s hartebeest (Bubalis cokei)_-___
Blessbok (Damaliscus albifrons) ~~ ____
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) __
Defassa water buck (Cobus defassa) __
Indian Antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Doreas gazelle (Gazella dorcas)______
Arabian gazelle (Gazella arabica) ____
Sable antelope (Hippotragus niger) _—_~—
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) ~~~
Congo harnessed antelope (Tragelaphus
gratus )
Chamois (Rupicapra tragus)—~—~~_-____
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlaicus)_—~______
Common goat (Capra hircus)________
Angora goat (Capra hircus)__________
Circassian goat (Capra hircus)_______
Barbary sheep (Ovis tragelaphus)— ~__
Barbados sheep (Ovis  aries-trage-
laphus )
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis) ~~______
Zebu (Bibos indicus)
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens) _________
American bison (Bison americanus). 1
Hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus) —_
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)__~~____
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) _____
Red-necked wallaby (Macropus rufi-
COULUS)) pm eters rt AiR ae ones oe scot A ES
Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsu-
DIDS) Sor ae EE | SSE. LARS
Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsu-
DEUS) ea IT Oat eens een nero eae ES 1
Common wombat (Phascolomys mitch-
LET) ore Se A ES oe Ee eee 1

antelope (Antilocapra

WH Re Ce eee bo

bo HB bo o> HW GO bo

a

Waa nw1wrHo

be

BIRDS.

4

be

He CO

Cac an

mS

oO.

Whydah weaver (Vidua paradisea)___ _ 27
Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

Rose-breasted grosbeak (Zamelodia lu-
GOULCLON DY ee re en ee 1
Common cardinal (Cardinalis cardi-
OLR LOIS POT Ree ie ae ach 2
Siskin (Spinws) spinws) == —— aa eee 5
Saffron finch (Sycalis flaveola)_----_ 19
Yellow-hammer (Hmberiza citrinella) — 1
Common canary (Serinus canarius)__ 26
Linnet (Linota cannabina) _----_____- 4
Cowbird (Molothrus. ater) _=______- 1
Meadow lark (Sturnella magna) _—____ 2
Glossy starling (Lamprotornis cau-
GG1U8) =e ee ae 1
Malabar mynah (Poliopsar malabari-
(7) ee ee ae ee es ee oe
European raven (Corvus corazr)_--~_~ 1
American rayen (Corvus coradz sinua-
(Corvus brachyrhyn-
1
Green jay (Xanthoura luwxruosa)_____-_ 1
White-throated jay (Garrulus leucotis) — 2
80

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

Animals in the collection June 80, 1914—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) _-______
American magpie (Pica pica hudsonica) —
Red-billed magpie (Urocissa  occipi-

ECL S)) ea ae ae ee ae le
Piping crow (Gymnorhina tibicen) —__~
Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas)_----~
Sulphur-erested cockatoo (Cacatua ga-

TRY BHAT Vee a a TE pS
White cockatoo (Cacatua alba) —--~----~_
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatua lead-

OCGA eens = ee
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatua gym-
AUOD IS) ee ee ere ee a
Roseate cockatoo (Cacatua_ roseica-
(HUG) Va a ee
Cockateel (Calopsittacus nove-hol-
LOMONE) pa ee
Yellow and blue macaw (Ara ara-
TOUIU CG) a
Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara
TIVOCG 0) Po Be eee Se ae ee

Red and blue macaw (Ara chloroptera)
Great green macaw (Ara militaris) ~~
Mexican conure (Conurus holochlorus)_—
Gray-breasted parrakeet (Myopsittacus

MONACHUWS) =o 2 oe a eee ae ed
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Orange-winged amazon (Amazona

CNALONICE) = ee ee eee
Festive amazon (Amazona festiva) —-_
Porto Rican amazon (Amazona_ vit-

COU UNS a ae a en ee ee
Yellow-shouldered amazon (Amazona
ochropterd) 262s See se See
Yellow-fronted amazon (Amazona
ochrocephala)) 22s ee
Red-fronted amazon (Amazona rhodo-
COTY TNG aea2 ees LES See eee oe cases
Yellow-headed amazon (Amazona le-
Vaillant) 2s Laas Bee eee ee ae
Blue-fronted amazon (Amazona
ESTE C)) arr ee ie A aN ee ee Te

Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Banded parrakeet (Palewornis fasciata) —
Alexandrine parrakeet (Palewornis alex-

ONO) Sn a ee
Love bird (Agapornis pullaria) ____-_~
Green parrakeet (Loriculus sp.) —~--~-_
Shell parrakeet (Melopsittacus wun-

QUNGCWS) ee a ee
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) _
Arctic horned owl (Bubo virginianus

SUCATCTICUS) Waa oe ee ree See
Screech owl (Otussasio) 282 anee2es22=
Barred owl (Striz varia) ~~~ 22
Barn owl (Aluco pratincola)___~_____
Sparrow hawk (Palco sparverius)———~
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus) —
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus lewcoce-

phalvws “alascanws) 22222. Nese es
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos)—~--~
Harpy eagle (Thrasaétus harpyia)_—_—~

eo Ww

oo e bo

lll ell SLOP)

to

a

bo

me bo bo

bo eS bo

Chilian eagle (Geranoaétus melano-

lCUCUS) oe aa a ees
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coron-

(TIS) ratio Uae ge a A RHI eg an
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo platyp-

COTS ee Ie ea ek pees
Swainson’s hawk (Buteo swainsoni) —_
Weneztiel sania yest coer a ee
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway) ~___—_
Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) —___
South American condor (Sarcorham-

GO CORSO QU ee Oe ee OE ee
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

HOR TAD HS) jee RS ae ae ey Dg SR
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)—--_____
Cinereous vulture (Vultwr monachus) _—
Hgyptian vulture (Neophron percnop-

COVULS)) ee el gee
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)———-~
Black yulture (Catharista wrubi) ~~~
King vulture (Gypagus papa) —_______
Red-billed pigeon (Columba flaviros-

tris)
White-crowned pigeon (Columba leuco-

CODNGUG) e523 SS ae ete oe
Band-tailed pigeon (Columba fasciata) _—
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilla) —-_
Collared turtle dove (Turtur risorius) —
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) ~~~
Nicobar pigeon (Caiwnas nicobarica) —_
Barred curassow (Craz fasciolata) ~~
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-

AICS EIS) yee k Se Se a Ee ah
Reafowl (Pavo enstatw ==
Jungle fowl (Gallus bankiva)—~__--_~
English pheasant (Phasianus colchi-

CUS) a ee ee ele Pe
European quail (Coturnir communis) ——
Massena quail (Cyrtonyz monteaume)
Black-backed gallinule (Porphyrio mela-

MOTUS) eet wos ey) aE eR
American coot (Fulica americana) ——_~
Flightless rail (Ocydromus australis) _—
Great bustard (Otis tarda) -~_______
Common cariama (Cariama cristata) ——
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) ——
Whooping crane (Grus americana) ~~~
Sandhill crane (Grus mevicana) ——~--~
Australian crane (Grus australasiana) —
European crane (@Grus cinerea) ——~~--~~
Indian white crane (G@Grus lewcogera-

NWS) a2 oe ee ee
Ruff (Machetes pugnaw) —_.~--------=
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorax

NY CULCOFED -NGVIUS) =~ © 52 =
Snowy egret (Hgretta candidissima) ——
Great white heron (Herodias egretta)—
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) ~~~
Great black-crowned heron (Ardea co-

1

kA OD ek et

pa

Le i aS)

ry

BPheoowty AK b

Per Parra

oreo x bo bo

~

bo
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

Animals in the collection June 30, 1914—Continued.

BIRDS—Continued.

73176°—sM 1914——_6

81

Black stork (Ciconia nigra) _~-------- -1, Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galeri-
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus dubius) —~~ fi CULOEG) ies syle) pel ete Lo ids 5
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) -----~- Zenit (Cala aCwtd) = ee 4
Sacred ibis (Jbis ethiopica) ____---_~_ 3 | Shoveler duck (Spatula clypeata)—____ 1
White: ibis (Guare alba) -—---=2 222 18 | Black duck (Anas rubripes) ___________ 3
- Roseate spoonbill (Ajaja ajaja)------ 2 | Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ~~ ~___ 138
European flamingo (Phenicopterus ro- American white pelican (Pelecanus
PRR) Sok, RES SLE es Cae es Beaeien Os t's CLUCLTOLRANUGCHOS ee 9
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus) ~~~ 5 | European white pelican (Pelecanus
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) ---------- ti ONOCTOLOLUS) ir =e ne an See 1
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)-~_---~ 1 | Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus)_—__ 1
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) —~--~ 2 | Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) 5
White muscovy duck (Cairina mos- Australian pelican (Pelecanus  con-
(5 (HERECE AD Stee SE pa perc peg Empey eal 2 SD ECUULCTUS) Peas eas a RENEE 2
Wandering tree-duck (Dendrocygna Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz au-
ACU) ee ae ee ee ee 6 UCU LOTACLOTEILS ) ete ee ee 13
Fulvous tree-duck (Dendrocygna  bi- Mexican cormorant (Phalacrocorax
COLGT iy eee er Ee 2 UIUC LIC ONAL Sa ene 1
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra) — 1 | Water turkey (Anhinga anhinga)_____ 2
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) ~~~ 7 | American herring gull (Larus argen-
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis tatus smithsonianus) —~—=--__~______ 3
EULOGY ee ere eee, 3 | Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)_ ~____ 2
Lesser snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) 1 | South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus LOLS oe ee ees os oe a ARS i
TUBULES) ee eee ee AS 1 | Somali ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
American white-fronted goose (Anser DhANES) ye he ead eee nee 2) 1
aloifrons gambel) —-----~-=~----.-— 1 | Common cassowary (Casuarius galea-
Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) —~-__ 3 CUS eae EE POR eee eats i!
Scaup duck (Marila marila)---__-_~- 5 | Common rhea (Rhea americana) ——__~ 2
Red-headed duck (Marila americana) — 2) Emu (Dromeus nove hollandie) ——___ 2
Wood duck! (Aza ‘sponsa)— 22-22 2 5
REPTILES.
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis)___ 20 | Spreading adder (Heterodon platy-
Painted box-tortoise (Cistudo ornata) — 2 phinus)< Se itsrst AULT osipin ik
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephip- Black snake (Zamenis constrictor)_._ 1
pium) —---~---~~----~------_---. 2 | Water snake (Natriz sipedon)_______ 3
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo Common garter snake (Hutenia sirtalis) 1
vicina) —--------------------~---- 1 | Water moccasin (Ancistrodon  pis-
Horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) 1 UDOT ALS eas es bine eee Se NE 9
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum)- 4 | Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortriz)__ 1
Regal python (Python reticulatus)____ 4] Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus ada-
Common boa (Boa constrictor) ~-----~ 2 TIEIVECUB nee ee es ee 4
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)— —---- 1 | Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) 1
Velvet snake (Hpicrates cenchris) ~~ 3
STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.
ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.
Pea CTNCE Cee nse open ae meee nae oe nbn ween una nae SPLIT Y SIARBERER DAPERLSSE Rb Wie rd ERS | LICKS 59
ESC ae ets SEE ESSIEN Tees SUE ES PETES ES Tyee OE ts SE Oe, 8 2O
Born and hatched in the National Zoological Park___--__-___- 95
IROCCIVEH ETN RECN ANG Clear elt A oie SA eg Wie alré
Depositedyine National Zoological, Park: 02-2 2 ee 30
Capuiredsin National: A0glogical Parks 2-2 = 8 Ree Te 4
PD ype Se ee Seg OS pot oe ey ee Shs SP 325
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

SUMMARY.

Animal son: hand: daly al Owls ese e ob Sa oe Se ee eee 1, 468
Accessions during the) yea. esse hes ag 325
1, 798

Deduct loss (by exchange, death, return of animals, ete.) ~-___________ 431
Onchanad Pune’? BOF LOMA WO eee ak ee ee CO RO lg 1, 362

Class Species. |Individuals.

Mammals 25.22 sac nicace so se cee segue isis ig =e Sia.ciaia:c ig ecjorals sisteiclerstnis/sielsieje' = sigs Sete eats 150 604
BT eG FY gs eS cte ae ENO Se Seo Geet gn ve 172 697
(Rep iilestessme secre ctiecinssis eee n= ee atm eke ne Setagae nis atti nc ele veletoi=se setae easter ore 18 61
STARA ee Le es be oe Cs ee ce Ea a LP oe ec ee a ae 340 1,362

The number of animals on hand at the close of this year was about
100 less than the previous year. This decrease occurred mainly in
small birds, conditions in the temporary bird house being so unsatis-
factory that it seemed advisable to reduce somewhat that part of the
collection. The floor of the bird house had to be renewed and the
underpinning replaced and made rat proof.

Fewer reptiles, also, were on hand, as a part of the space pre-
viously used for them in the lion house was required for the new

hippopotamus.
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year, as determined
by count and estimate, was 733,277, a daily average of 2,009. This
was about 100,000 more than during the previous fiscal year. The
largest number in any one month was 142,491, in April, 1914. The
largest number during one day was 56,981, on April 13 (Kaster
Monday). Vehicles were excluded from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. of that
day because of the crowded condition of the roads.

Seventy-nine schools, classes, ete., visited the park, with a total of
3,172 individuals.-

IMPROVEMENTS.

The amount remaining from the appropriation, after providing
for maintenance and the acquisition of animals already mentioned,
was used for such minor improvements as were most urgently needed.
The fitting up of the old elephant barn as temporary quarters for
the pair of African elephants was completed, and a good-sized yard
built in connection with it, inclosed by a strong steel fence. The
yard includes a bathing pool. The adjoining inclosure and _ pool
for tapirs were completed and put in use early in the year.

New hippopotamus quarters were arranged in the lion house
by enlarging the cage formerly occupied by elephant seals. This
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

was already provided with a tank of sufficient size, and, by extending
the exterior wall, ample floor space was secured. The female hippo-
potamus, which had outgrown her temporary quarters, was trans-
ferred to the new and much larger cage, and the cage vacated was
used for a young male that had been obtained at an unusually favor-
able price. Both animals have access to the outdoor yard and the
large pool which it contains. A new inclosure and shelter house
for Arabian camels were built near the sheep and deer inclosures
and two new yards were added to the series for wolves and foxes.

A yard 40 by 56 feet, with 10 breeding pens inclosed in it, was
built to provide for the breeding and study of mink in cooperation
with the Department of Agriculture.

During several years predatory animals living at large in the
park had at times forced their way into the flying cage and caused
considerable loss among the birds. In order to prevent this the
guardrail about the cage was rebuilt, using between the posts a wire
netting with small mesh and at the top a sheet-iron hood. This has
proved to be effective against both rats and larger vermin.

A small temporary toilet for men was built near the entrance from
Adams Mill Road.

A hot-water heating plant was installed in the office building,
which had up to that time been heated, rather unsatisfactorily, with
stoves. At the same time new floors were laid on the main floor of
the office and some other much-needed repairs made. In order to
provide for more convenient and economical use of the machines in
the workshop, two additional electric motors were installed there.

_ The drinking fountains with attached cups were removed and seven
“bubble” fountains set in their places. Several of these are fitted
with faucets for the accommodation of visitors who bring cups or
desire to obtain water for picnic purposes.

_ Two tennis courts were constructed in the lower end of the park
where there is level ground that is not as yet available for other
purposes.

The cost of these improvements was as follows:

Fitting up old elephant barn and building yard_______________________ $1, 325
(Completing: yard and pool-for tapings: 42s a es oe 300
NGC ASE WODOEA MINIS CUT AT CTS see ce ek ee els Sek Be 650
Inclosure and shelter house for Arabian camels________-_-_-_-__ 390
ACG OMAIE Vara Set One Ww OlVCSe se ate a sr ey Sn a ep 400
Onarersn late ReCO tl oll Ken sere Rarens 2 ba SS ae iE Te See ee 325
New guard rail, with foundation wall, at flying cage_______._-_____ 750
PSHGHEED UL TEGHVETE TV GR HIS! SN ay ir aCe 0 Eee De ee pO ee Me 2 eee 200
Heating plant and new floors in office building____-___--__-_-- 950
Additonal motors in: workshops =. foes th 2 cl aed Bae Tne Ses tite |. 350
Be DDLGarrainehaoMeOUN CAG = se. meee hE ee i ee SO ee 200

RACV. 6) BEGET are CURT ete ete tee eae ae 8 8 2 eS 150
84. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, INCLOSURES, GROUNDS, ETC.

Considerable repairs had to be made to some of the buildings and
inclosures, including new roof covering on part of the lion house and
the rebuilding of the fence around the elk paddock, and a portion of
the retaining wall above the bear yards on the eastern side of the park
was rebuilt where it had been undermined by the weathering of the
rock below.

A severe storm on July 30, 1918, destroyed a number of large trees
and caused serious damage throughout the park. The cost of remoy-
ing the débris and restoring the park to its normal condition was

about $1,500.
BRIDGE.

The construction of the “rough stone or bowlder bridge” across
Rock Creek, which was mentioned in the last annual report, pro-
ceeded in a satisfactory manner. The contract for the excavation
and masonry work was secured by the lowest bidder, the Warren F.
Brenizer Co. The plans and specifications were prepared by David
E. McComb, engineer of bridges, District of Columbia, and it was
thought best that the supervising engineer and the inspector of the
work should be persons recommended by him. Mr. W. A. Draper
was accordingly employed as engineer and Mr. Wilham Champion as
inspector. No obstacles of any importance were met with during
the progress of the work, though it was found that the excavation
required for the piers was somewhat greater than had been antici-
pated. The bridge was opened for travel on November 1, 1913. As
there was a heavy fill of earth over the stone masonry, it was neces-
sary to defer the construction of the macadam surface and concrete
sidewalk until spring. This also was satisfactorily completed during
June, 1914.

The following is a statement of the expenditures from the appro-
priation of $20,000:

Expenditures prior to July 1, 1913 (all outside of contract for excava-

LsLCOTNN DIN GL 10S VTA Ty) ase ee ee ee $1, 776
Motal payments under: contract: 22 == =e eee 10, 914
Expenditures during this fiscal year (outside of contract) —____________ 5, 158

17, 848

Since the close of the fiscal year expenditures and liabilities have
been incurred, amounting to $335, for restoring and perfecting the
approaches to the bridge. The total expenditures to date are there-
fore $18,183.

ALTERATION OF THE WEST BOUNDARY OF THE PARK.

The sundry civil act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, con-
tained the following item:

Readjustment of boundaries: For acquiring, by condemnation, all the lots,
pieces, or parcels of land, other than the one hereinafter excepted, that lie
"AYVd IWOIDO1OOZ IVNOILVN ‘M3SYUO WOOY ssouoy sa9qiug

"LT akWId : ‘poday s Arejaisag—'p|6| ‘odey uejuosy}iws

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

between the present western boundary of the National Zoological Park and
Connecticut Avenue from Cathedral Avenue to Klingle Road, $107,200, or such
portion thereof as may be necessary, said land when acquired, together with the
included highways, to be added to and become a part of the National Zoological
Park. The proceedings for the condemnation of said land shall be instituted by
the Secretary of the Treasury under and in accordance with the terms and
provisions of subchapter 1 of chapter 15 of the Code of Law for the District of
Columbia.

Under the sanction given by this act the attention of the Secre-
tary of the Treasury was immediately called to the matter. A great
delay has occurred. It is understood that a new survey of the prop-
erty involved was necessary, that the searching of titles to the vari-
ous parcels of land consumed considerable time. The case is now
before the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia awaiting the
award of a jury. In the meantime the principal property owner
has endeavored to enhance the value of the land by grading and
otherwise improving it. The total amount to be purchased is about
10% acres.

ROCK CREEK MAIN INTERCEPTOR.

The District of Columbia having obtained from Congress author-
ity to construct a large sewer, called the “ Rock Creek main inter-
ceptor,” extending from P Street northwest to the Military Road,
District of Columbia, began work upon it within the limits of the
park on June 1, 1913. The project involves both an open-cut sewer
and a tunnel, about 2,000 feet in length, extending from a short dis-
tance below the new bridge to the Klingle Road. This construction
necessarily produces a considerable disturbance of the surface and
defacement of the natural features of the park. This is particularly
the case at either end of the tunnel, where thousands of yards of
excavated material have been dumped. It is hoped that the District
officials will be able to remedy this in some measure when the work
shall be completed. This is expected about September 5, 1914.

NEW APPROACH TO THE PARK.

By an act of Congress approved March 2, 1911, there was author-
ized a new approach to the park from Sixteenth Street and Colum-
bia Road to what has been known as the Quarry Road entrance.
This has now been completed by the District with a fine macadam
roadway, and offers a most convenient and attractive route for reach-
ing the park from the city. The Quarry Road, which had a very
steep and dangerous gradient, has been abolished as a means of
access.

IMPORTANT NEEDS.

Aviary—aAttention has been called for several years past to the
importance of erecting a suitable house for the care and preserva-
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

tion of the birds of the collection, most of which are now housed in a
low, wooden, temporary structure which is by no means suitable for
the purpose and has to be constantly renewed by repairs. The mat-
ter has been repeatedly urged upon Congress and an appropriation
of $80,000 asked for a new structure. This is by no means an ex-
travagant sum, as the aviaries of most zoological collections cost con-
siderably more than this.

Reptile house.—The park has never had an adequate exhibition of
the interesting and varied domain of reptiles. A few alligators, some
Galapagos tortoises, boas, anacondas, and a few native species are
kept in the lion house in quarters which are entirely unsuitable for
their proper exhibition and comfort. It is thought that a proper
reptile house, where the specimens could be kept in approximately
natural conditions, could be built for about $50,000.

Pachyderm house.—There are now in the collection a considerable
number of pachydermata or thick-skinned animals, including an
Indian elephant, two African elephants, two hippopotami, and four
tapirs. These all require special treatment in the way of bathing
pools, strong walls, etc. These animals are at present nearly all
housed in quarters that are too small and weak. Some of them are
young and rapidly growing and it will soon be a difficult matter to
confine them. It is also likely that other species will be added to
those now on hand. To properly exhibit and care for them a new
house should be built. It is thought that this can be done at a cost
of $100,000, which is much less than similar structures have cost in
other cities.

Hospital and laboratory.—The park has not at the present time
any means for properly isolating and caring for the animals that
may be injured or ailing. Sick animals are ordinarily exposed to
the gaze of the public, to the detriment of the animals and the reputa-
tion of the park. Quiet and repose are as necessary to animals as
to man, and that can not be assured under the present conditions.

Besides this, which seems required merely from humanitarian
reasons, consideration should be given to certain scientific aspects of
the matter. The diseases and parasites of animals are but im-
perfectly understood, and investigations of them are important, both
directly and for their analogy with those of man and their possible
transmission to the human race. The animals received at the park
have usually been kept in insanitary quarters and frequently bring
in the germs of disease which they transmit to others. If a strict
quarantine for a suitable time could be established, this danger could
be avoided in a great measure and the death rate reduced. Further
than this there is now no adequate utilization of the animals for
scientific purposes.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

In other countries the most significant scientific function of col-
lections of living animals has been the advancement of our knowl-
edge with regard to the structure, habits, and activities of animals.
Most of the knowledge which has been acquired with regard to the
structure of animals has been gained from zoological collections of —
precisely similar character to those which we have in the National
Zoological Park.

I may note, for example, that in the Jardin des Plantes, at Paris,
investigations have been carried on since the middle of the eighteenth
century by men who are among the most famous scientists that have
ever lived. I will mention, among others, Duverney, Daubenton,
Buffon, Cuvier, Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, and Milne-Edwards. In the
same way great names are associated with the Zoological Society of
London. I may mention in this connection the names of Owen,
Flower, Huxley, Sclater, and the present prosector, Beddard. The
garden at Berlin has been noted for the work of Hartmann, and in
the garden at Amsterdam Fiirbringer brought to a conclusion his
monumental work upon the structure of birds. I mention a few
names among many. It would be easy to extend the list very con-
siderably.

In order to properly utilize the material that comes to the park
from the death of the animals, it would be necessary to establish an
anatomical and pathological laboratory. This would, of course, in-
volve a considerable expenditure, but I am of the opinion that it
would be a wise thing for the Smithsonian Institution to consider the
question and to arrange to have the park advance along that line of
growth. <A proper structure for the purposes above mentioned suit-
ably fitted with the necessary simple apparatus would probably cost
$15,000.

Lunch and rest house——The visiting public is by no means properly
served at present in the park, which is rather remote from restaurants
or other places where food can be obtained, yet so extensive that a
proper view of the collection occupies at least half a day. Very many
visitors would be greatly benefited if there were a properly: equipped
lunch stand where food could be purchased at reasonable prices.
This is so generally understood in other places that the lack of such
facilities in the park is always a matter of surprise. There is at
present only a very inadequate counter, kept on an exposed pavilion,
which has to be closed up whenever the weather is inclement. Be-
sides this, persons are not infrequently taken ill or become fatigued
_ while at the park, and there should be means for meeting such emer-
gencies. It is thought that a suitable structure for this purpose, con-
taining the necessary cooking range, rest rooms, and water-closets,
ean be built for $15,000.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Fill across valley, Ontario Road—The administration has been
considerably embarrassed by the great quantity of earth and débris
that is washed down into the park from Ontario Road after every
heavy rain. The Commissioners of the District were authorized to
extend Adams Mill Road across a deep valley at the foot of Ontario
’ Road, and this has made necessary a very heavy fill of loose earth
that is readily excavated by rains. Attempts have been made to
arrest this flow, which amounts to many tons of earth, but the means
at the disposal of the park are inadequate.

Additions to the collection.—The park is greatly in need of certain
well-known animals to make its exhibit more complete. I do not
refer to those which are excessively rare, but to those that are common
objects of interest to the public. The anthropoid apes, including
the gorilla, the orang, the chimpanzee, and the gibbon, should be
shown; also the rhinoceros, the East Indian tapir, the giraffe, the
eland, the Beisa antelope, the koodoo, the East African buffalo, and
a series of mountain goats and sheep, including those from the
Western States.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank Baker, Superintendent.

Dr. Cuartes D. Waxcort,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year
ending June 30, 1914:

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the Observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square
feet, containing five small frame buildings used for observing and
computing purposes, three movable frame shelters covering several
out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and also one small brick building
containing a storage battery and electrical distribution apparatus.

(6) At Mount Wilson, Cal., upon a leased plot of ground 100
feet square, in horizontal projection, are located a one-story cement
observing structure, designed especially for solar-constant measure-
ments, and also a little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for observer’s
quarters.

Upon the observing shelter at Mount Wilson there is a tower 40
feet high above the 12-foot piers which had been prepared in the
original construction of the building. This tower has been equipped
with an improvised tower telescope for use when observing (with
the spectrobolometer) the distribution of radiation over the sun’s
disk.

During the year apparatus for research has been purchased or
constructed at the Observatory shop. The value of these additions
to the instrumental equipment, not counting the tower above men-
tioned and its equipment, is estimated at $1,500.

WORK OF THE OBSERVATORY.
AT WASHINGTON.

Observations.—Mr. Fowle has continued the difficult research on
the transmission through moist air of radiations of great wave
length, such, for instance, as those which bodies at the temperature
of the earth emit most freely. He uses a very powerful lamp made
up of a large number of Nernst electric glowers, and examines by
the aid of the spectrobolometer the energy spectrum of the rays

89
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

emitted by this lamp, first directly, and then, after the rays have
traversed twice or four times a tube 200 feet long, containing air of
measured humidity. During the past year Mr. Fowle has been
dealing principally with rays of the very longest wave lengths of the
terrestrial energy spectrum which moist air transmits. He has
reached a wave length of about eighteen microns, which is about
twenty-five times the longest wave length visible to the eye, and
about three and one-half times the wave length of the solar rays
investigated by this Observatory in the years 1890 to 1900.

A great number of difficulties are met with. In the first place,
great sensitiveness of the bolometer is required, owing to the feeble-
ness of these rays. Attempts to use a vacuum bolometer have con-
sumed much time, but not yet with entire success. Full success in
this seems now probable. In the second place there is great difficulty
in determining the amount of radiation lost in the optical train re-
quired to reflect the beam to and fro through the long tube. <A prin-
cipal difficulty in this matter arises from the fact that the lamp and
its surroundings are unequally hot at different parts, for this has led
to different degrees of loss at different wave lengths. This last source
of error is so obscure that it escaped our attention for a long time
and has required the observations to be repeated after results worthy
of publication had, as it was thought, been reached. These and a host
of other difficulties have delayed the research, but great hope is now
felt that satisfactory results will be ready for publication in another
year.

Computations—The reductions of Mount Wilson and Washington
observations take a large part of the time of Mr. Fowle and Mr. Ald-
rich, as well as the entire time of Miss Graves and a portion of that
of Mr. Carrington. This work is nearly up to date.

Mr. Fowle has continued the study of the effect of terrestrial water
vapor on the Mount Wilson solar observations and has published
several valuable papers upon it. An interesting result is, that after
determining and correcting for the effect of atmospheric water vapor
on the transmission of solar rays the coefficients of atmospheric trans-
parency determined at Mount Wilson when combined with the baro-
metric pressure after the manner indicated by Lord Rayleigh’s theory
of gaseous scattering of light, yield the value 2.70 billion billion as
the number of molecules at standard pressure and temperature in a
cubic centimeter of gas. Prof. Millikan, by a wholly independent
kind of reasoning, has derived from electrical experiments the value
2.705 billion billion. The close agreement found is a strong confirma-
tion of the accuracy of our determinations of atmospheric transpar-
ency, and accordingly tends to increase confidence in our determina-
tion of the solar constant of radiation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91
PREPARATION OF APPARATUS,

Sky radiation instruments—The director and Mr. Aldrich have
devoted much time to the design and testing of apparatus for meas-
uring the scattered radiation of the sky by day. What is desired is
an instrument exposing horizontally an absorber of radiation in such
a manner that the rays of the entire visible hemisphere of the sky
would be received upon it, all rays not of solar origin would be
excluded by a suitable screen, and the total energy of the scattered
sky radiation originally emitted by the sun would be measured
accurately. This is a more difficult problem than the measurement
of the direct solar radiation, and it is unlikely that quite as high
precision can be attained with the sky radiation instrument as with
the pyrheliometers used for measuring direct solar radiation. From
experiments with several instruments of the kind which have been
constructed in the Observatory shop by Mr. Kramer and tested by
Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich it now seems probable that the sources
of error can be so far eliminated that sky radiation measurements
accurate to about 2 per cent will be made. An instrument embody-
ing what are thought to be the final improvements of design is now
under construction, and it is hoped it will be used a great deal in
the coming year.

Balloon pyrheliometers.—Still more time has been devoted by
Messrs. Abbot, Aldrich, and Kramer to the reconstruction and test-
ing of balloon pyrheliometers. Mention was made in last year’s
report of the proposed measurements of solar radiation by apparatus
attached to sounding balloons and raised to great elevations. As
stated below, the first trials in August, 1913, while unexpectedly
successful in many ways, did not enable us to obtain measurements
above the elevation of about 14,000 meters, or 45,000 feet. At this
elevation the mercury froze in the thermometers. Also, the clock-
work proved not sufficiently accurate for best results. Still the
results obtained were so promising that it was thought well to repeat
the experiments.

Accordingly the five balloon pyrheliometers were reconstructed.
Excellent French clocks were substituted for those used in 1913, and
many improvements of the instruments were introduced. Two de-
vices were employed to prevent the freezing of the mercury in the
thermometer. In some instruments water jackets, having numerous
interior copper bars to act as heat conductors, were arranged. In
these it was hoped to make available the latent heat of freezing of
the water and thus to prevent the surroundings of the pyrheliometric
apparatus from descending far below the freezing point of water.
In other instruments electrical temperature regulators were provided.
Many experiments were tried to obtain a constant, powerful, and
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

very light electric battery for this-purpose. At length a modification |
of the Roberts cell was designed, in which individual cells weighing
20 grams (} ounce) would furnish a constant potential of 1.3 volts
and yield a nearly constant current of about 0.5 ampere for nearly
two hours. The internal resistance of the cells was only about 0.3
ohms. Barometric elements were made to record on the same drum
that recorded radiation. One instrument was constructed to be sent
up at night, so as to show if any unexpected phenomena occurred
when the instruments were being raised, apart from those due to the
sun. Many tests of the instruments were made at different tempera-
tures and pressures, and while immersed in descending air currents
comparable to those anticipated to attend the flights. The accom-
panying illustration shows one of the balloon pyrheliometers as
reconstructed.

Silver-disk pyrheliometers—As in former years, a number of
silver-disk pyrheliometers were standardized at the Observatory and
sent out by the Institution to several foreign Government observa-
tories.

IN THE FIELD.

MOUNT WILSON EXPEDITION OF 1913.

Mr. Aldrich went to Mount Wilson early in July, 1913, and car-
ried on there solar constant measurements until September when he
was joined and then relieved by Mr. Abbot, who continued the obser-
vations until November. An expedition at the charge of the private
funds of the Smithsonian, and under the direction of Mr. A. K.
Angstrém, was in California during July and August for the pur-
pose of measuring nocturnal radiation at different altitudes, ranging
from below sea level to the summit of Mount Whitney, 4,420 meters
(14,502 feet). Mr. Aldrich cooperated as far as possible with this
expedition.

Balloon pyrheliometry.—At the same time a cooperating expedi-
tion from the United States Weather Bureau made ascents of captive
and free balloons in order to determine the temperature, pressure, and
humidity at great elevations, for use in reducing Mr. Angstrém’s
observations. Advantage was taken of the opportunity to send up
special pyrheliometers for measuring solar radiation at great alti-
tudes. These experiments, which were made jointly by Mr. Aldrich
and Mr. Sherry of the Weather Bureau, were referred to by anticipa-
tion in last year’s report. Five balloon pyrheliometers were sent up
from Santa Catalina Island. All were recovered, with readable
records. One instrument unfortunately lay in a field about six weeks
before recovery, and parts of its record referring to the higher
elevations were obliterated, but it yielded the best results of any up
to about 8,000 meters. Two of the instruments unfortunately were
“YSLAWOMAHYAd NOO11Vg

» me

*"G ALVId ‘poday s,Aiejaineg—'p1 61 ‘Woday UBIUOSY}IWUS
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

shaded by cirrus clouds until after the mercury froze in their ther-
mometers. The highest elevation at which a radiation record was
obtained was about 14,000 meters, or nearly 45,000 feet. As stated in
last year’s report no results indicating that values of solar radiation
exceeding our solar constant value (1.93 calories) are obtainable by
pyrheliometric measurements at any elevation, however high, appear
from these balloon pyrheliometer experiments. In view of the pro-
posed repetition of the experiments with improved apparatus no
further statement of these preliminary results is necessary here.

The tower-telescope work.—As stated in former reports, investiga-
tions were carried on at Washington during the years 1904 to 1907
to determine the distribution of the sun’s radiation along the diame-
ter of the solar disk. It was shown by this work, in accord with
results of earlier observers, that the edge of the solar disk is much
less bright than the center, and that this contrast of brightness is
very great for violet and ultra-violet rays, but diminishes steadily
with increasing wave lengths, and becomes very slight for red and
especially for infra-red rays. These phenomena are well shown in

Biue-GREEN UctRAMIOLET
A=.S03 AL A=.37 lye

' Inrra-Reo ‘INFRA-RED Tale me
Az 1.55 »=-966u A«.670
Fic. 1.—Brightness distribution along sun’s diameter for different colors.

the accompanying illustration, from observations of 1913. The
measurements were continued at Washington on all suitable days in
the hope that some fluctuation of this contrast of brightness between
the edge and center of the solar disk would be disclosed. It seemed
probable that there might be such fluctuations associated with the
’ irregular variability of the total solar radiation. It proved, however,
that such fluctuations, if existing, were of so small an order of
magnitude that it was not certain whether they were really shown
by the observations at Washington, hampered as these were by vari-
able transparency of the air.

When the observing station was erected on Mount Wilson in 1908
provision was made for a tower telescope designed to continue this
research. When in 1911 and 1912 the Algerian expeditions confirmed
the sun’s variability, added interest was felt in the proposed experi-
ments. Accordingly, the tower, 50 feet in height, was completed in
1912. Not sufficient funds were available to equip the tower tele-
scope, but Director Hale, of the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory,
kindly loaned considerable apparatus, and with this and some appa-
ratus which remained from eclipse expeditions, and by using any-
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

thing available, as, for instance, a trunk of a tree for a mirror sup-
port at the top of the tower, Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich succeeded in
getting arranged on the tower a reflecting telescope of 12 inches
aperture and 75 feet focus, all ready for observations by September
9, 1918. Then and thereafter solar constant measurements were sup-
plemented by determinations of the distribution of radiation along
the sun’s diameter on each day of observation. These determinations
are made in seven different wave lengths on each day, ranging from
0.38u. in the ultra violet to 1.ly in the infra-red. Fortunately, the
definition of the tower telescope proves to be very good. ‘There is
slight change of focus during the several hours of observing, and the
“seeing” seems not to deteriorate much up to 10 o’clock a. m., at
which time the observations are generally concluded.

About 45 days of simultaneous observations of the “solar con-
stant” and of the distribution of radiation over the sun’s disk were
secured in 1918. The results appear to indicate a variability in both
phenomena and a distinct correlation of the two in point of time. It
is indicated that when in course of its short-period irregular varia-
tion the solar radiation increases, there occurs simultaneously a dimi-
nution of the contrast between the edge and center of the sun’s disk.
A change of brightness of about 1.5 per cent was found to occur at 95
per cent out on the solar radius accompanying a change of 6 per cent
in the solar radiation. On comparing the mean of all results ob-
tained in 1913 with the mean of all obtained in Washington in 1906-7,
it appears that there was distinctly less contrast of brightness be-
tween the edge and center of the sun’s disk in 1913 than in 1907. We
have reason, however, to believe that there was distinctly a greater
total solar radiation in 1907 than in 1913. This result, compared with
the result stated above, indicates a difference of character between
the long-period fluctuations of the sun and its short-period irregular
fluctuations. The changes of contrast found, however, agree in this,
that whether from day to day in 1913, or as between 1913 and 1907,
the violet or shorter wave lengths change in contrast more than the
red or longer wave lengths.

MOUNT WILSON EXPEDITION OF 1914,

Mr. Abbot continued the Mount Wilson work, beginning in May,
1914. Many improvements were made in the tower telescope, lead-
ing to improved definition and stability of the image of the sun.
Improved methods of observing were introduced also.

BALLOON PYRHELIOMETRY.

Mr. Aldrich, in cooperation with the United States Weather
Bureau observers, under personal direction of Dr. Blair, arranged to
‘repeat the balloon pyrheliometer observations, and this time at
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

Omaha. Ascensions were not made until after July 1, 1914, but it
may be said in anticipation that two ascensions by day and one by
night were made. All three instruments were recovered. No unex-
pected phenomena were disclosed by the night record. One day
record appears to be excellent. Fortunately the instrument which
recorded it came back uninjured, and further tests and calibrations
with it are intended. The instrument reached a very great height,
and recorded radiation successfully until after it began to descend.
Preliminary reductions show that the values recorded fall below
our adopted value of the solar constant of radiation.

SUMMARY.

Progress has been made in the measurement of the effects pro-
duced by atmospheric water vapor on solar and terrestrial radia-
tion. New apparatus for measuring sky radiation has been devised
and perfected. Special pyrheliometers have been constructed and
caused to record solar radiation ‘with considerable success at great
altitudes when attached to free balloons. The results obtained tend
to confirm the adopted value of the solar constant of radiation.
Further results from balloon pyrheliometry are expected. A tower
telescope has been erected and put in operation on Mount Wilson.
By means of it the variability of the sun has been independently con-
firmed, for it appears that changes of the distribution of radiation
over the sun’s disk occur in correlation with the changes of the sun’s
total radiation.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assort,
Director Astrophysical Observatory.
Dr. Cuarutes D. Watcortt,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report upon the
work of the Library of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914:

It is with deep regret that the library records the death, on June
25, 1914, of Dr. Frederick William True, assistant secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution in charge of library and exchanges.

ACCESSIONS.

The additions to the library are received, with few exceptions, in
exchange for the publications of the Institution or by gift. There
were received during the year a total of 32,964 packages of publica-
tions, about 90 per cent of which came by mail and the balance
through the International Exchange Service. The correspondence
incident thereto aggregated about 2,000 written letters and 5,883
printed forms of acknowledgment.

There was catalogued, accessioned, and forwarded to the Smith-
sonian Deposit in the Library of Congress a total of 32,195 pieces, as
follows: 3,765 volumes and 1,729 parts of volumes, 5,755 pamphlets,
20,603 periodicals, and 343 charts. In addition 1,062 parts of serials
were received to complete imperfect sets. The accession entries were
from 513,027 to 517,776.

There was also transferred to the Library of Congress without
being stamped and recorded a total of 7,464 public documents pre-
sented to the Institution.

The accessions to the office library, the Astrophysical Observatory,
and the National Zoological Park amounted to 1,165 publications,
which were distributed as follows: 631 volumes, 93 parts of volumes,
46 pamphlets, and 1 chart were recorded for the office library; 106
volumes, 33 parts of volumes, and 212 pamphlets for that of the
Astrophysical Observatory; and 39 volumes and 4 pamphlets for the
National Zoological Park. This large increase over the previous
year was due in part to the addition of nearly 100 books for the
employees’ library from the estate of Miss Lucy Hunter Baird and
also to books acquired for the use of the Langley Aerodynamical
Laboratory.

96
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

Complete sets of inaugural dissertations and technological publi-
cations from 35 universities and technical high schools were received
from the following places: Baltimore, Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn,
Braunschweig, Breslau, Dresden, Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen,
Greifswald, Halle-Wittenberg, Hamburg, Heidelberg, Helsingfors,
Ithaca, Jena, Karlsruhe, Kiel, Konigsberg, Leipzig, Louvain, Lund,
Marburg, New Haven, Paris, Rostock, St. Petersburg, Strassburg,
Toulouse, Tubingen, Upsala, Wurzburg, and Zurich.

EXCHANGES.

A considerable portion of the periodicals in the Smithsonian
Library are obtained in exchange for publications of the Institution.
During the year 138 new titles of periodicals were thus added to the
large series of scientific journals already contained in the Smith-
sonian deposit. There were also secured 1,062 parts to complete
imperfect sets of publications already in the library.

This work of completing the sets and series in the Smithsonian
deposit is of great importance and has been carried forward with
definite results.

In response to requests sent to various institutions, 832 missing
parts have been supplied to complete 124 sets of publications of
scientific institutions and learned societies, 151 parts of 62 period-
icals and 78 parts of 30 sets and 1 map for the series in the general
classification. Among the more important publications received and
sent to the deposit to complete the sets may be mentioned 73 parts
of the “ Chetniia,” of the University of Moscow, Russia, making the
set complete from 1869 to date; also 60 parts of the Boletin de la
Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica, of Mexico City,
Mexico, completing the set to date; and 4 sets of publications, com-
prising 78 volumes, from Het Islenska Bokmentafelag, of Reykjavik,
Iceland, completing the sets from 1869 to date.

The securing of publications of historical societies in the United
States and abroad has been continued, and many additional publica-
tions have been obtained and transmitted to the Library of Congress.

READING ROOM.

The reading room has been in constant use during the year. There
are now on file about 270 foreign and domestic scientific periodicals
which are required by the staff of the institution and its branches
for consultation. In view of the fact that this collection contains
representative scientific periodicals from all parts of the world, offi-
cers of the scientific bureaus of the various governmental establish-
ments in Washington and students generally continue to take advan-
tage of the opportunity to consult them.

73176°—sM 19147
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.
THE AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY.

With the inauguration of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory
many important works on aeronautics published in the last few
years were needed in connection with the work. <A specially pre-
pared list made by Dr. A. F. Zahm and Naval Constructor Jerome
C. Hunsaker, United States Navy, was considered, and 120 publica-
tions not already on the shelves were secured.

ART ROOM.

The collections of works on art have remained practically un-
changed during the year. The administration of the National Gal-
lery of Art being now under the National Museum, all books relating
to the fine arts formerly assigned to the art room are now placed in
the museum library as received.

EMPLOYEES’ LIBRARY.

The employees’ library has been very fortunate in receiving,
through the estate of Miss Lucy Hunter Baird, volumes in addition
to those presented by her some years ago, which add interest to the
collection of general literature for the use of the employees.

NEW STEEL BOOK STACKS.

In the report on the library for last year the preliminary plans .
for the new steel book stacks for the main hall of the Smithsonian
building were discussed. On March 14, 1914, a contract was entered
into for the erection of the stacks in the east end and the completion
of the work within 120 days from that date. On February 26, 1914,
the wrecking of the galleries had begun with the moving of the
books of the Bureau of American Ethnology library, and within 10
days the old galleries had been razed and the old exhibition cases
removed, leaving the east end of the hall entirely free. At the end
of the year the floor and walls at the east end of the hall had been
repaired, the heating plant reinstalled, and the steel framework of
the stacks put in place.

These stacks are of steel construction, in three tiers, one on the
main floor and two above, the two above having floors of glass. On
the east wall is a single-faced stack covering the entire wall area
from the floor of the hall to the ceiling. At the two columns second
from the east end is erected a double-faced stack, partitioning the
stacks from the main hall, and on the west face of this stack are
two galleries which are an extension of the floors of the stacks. The
stacks between this partition and the east wall have open shelving
throughout. A passageway on the lower floor leading to the offices
of the Institution in the east end of the building has been provided
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

for, and the openings between the stacks on the sides provided with
grill doors in order that the books on these shelves may be pro-
tected. The cases on the north and south walls of what is left of the
main hall, as well as those under the first gallery, are provided with
glass-panel doors in order to protect the contents, as it is the inten-
tion to use this hall for museum exhibition purposes.

CATALOGUE OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

The manuscript of the dictionary catalogue of the publications of
the Institution and its branches mentioned in last year’s report is
still in preparation, but it is expected that it will be ready for
publication during the coming year.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The library of the National Museum consists of the main library
in the natural history building, to which have been transferred all
the publications relating to biology and anthropology as well as
those of a general character; the technological series, in the older,
or arts and industries building, which at present includes publica-
tions relating to technology, and for convenience those on history and
botany. These two libraries do not include, however, some 30 sec-
tional libraries in the scientific departments and divisions of the
Museum. In making this arrangement the convenience and inter-
ests of the scientific staff have been the only consideration. The
entire library of the Museum now contains 43,609 volumes, 73,765
~pamphlets and unbound papers, and 124 manuscripts. The acces-
sions during the past year were 1,917 volumes, 1,723 pamphlets, and
132 parts of volumes.

In the library of the Museum 755 books were catalogued; 2,001
pamphlets; total number of cards made, 3,520; completed volumes
of periodicals catalogued, 1,162; parts of publications, 12,833; parts
of periodicals entered, 397; 397 new periodical cards were made, and
8 books and 362 ee were recatalogued.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from
the general library was 20,884, which includes 9,718 obtained from
the Library of Congress, 376 from the Department of Agriculture,
105 from the United States Geological Survey, 90 from the Army
Medical Museum and Library, 2 from the United States Bureau of
_ Education, 4 from the United States Patent Office, 4 from the Bureau
of Fisheries, 1 from the United States Weather Bureau, 3 from the
United States Naval Observatory, and 2 from Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.

The securing of new exchanges for the Museum has been continued,

with the result that many new publications have been added to the
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

catalogue, and much has been done toward securing, in connection
with this work, parts of publications.

The moving of the biological, anthropological, and general refer-
ence series of the library to the new building having been completed
in the previous year and the rearrangement of the publications on
the shelves taken up, attention was given to the finishing of this
latter task.

DUPLICATE MATERIAL.

For many years the Museum library was overcrowded to such an
extent that the shelves had overflowed and it was impossible to
have a proper arrangement of the books. With these publications
were many duplicates which had been received by gift and other-
wise from the very beginning.

Among the duplicate material were many volumes of United States
Government documents duplicating publications already on the
shelves, and these, being of no further use to the Institution, were
transferred to the superintendent of documents, in accordance with
law.

BINDING.

The lack of sufficient funds for the binding of publications is a
serious question. This will obstruct the work in the future more
than in the past, unless an adequate sum can be set aside, so that
all the volumes may be bound and made ready for reference. To
prepare a volume for binding and then to be obliged to take out
parts of it urgently needed by the staff makes it incomplete, and
should that part be lost the volume may remain incomplete, inas-
much as the publications which the Museum needs for its work are
published in limited editions and it is often impossible again to
secure them for binding when there is money available for the
purpose.

During the year 690 volumes were prepared for binding and sent
to the Government bindery for that purpose.

GIFTS.

Many important gifts were received by the library during the
year, the estate of Miss Lucy Hunter Baird being one of the donors.
The following members of the staff presented publications: Dr.
William Healey Dall, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Dr. Edgar
A. Mearns, Mr. Alfred Klakring, and Dr. Harriet Richardson Searle.

BAIRD LIBRARY.

Spencer Fullerton Baird, second secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, gave his valuable scientific library to the United States
National Museum when the Museum library was founded. He re-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

tained during his lifetime a number of volumes, and after his death
his daughter, Miss Lucy Hunter Baird, continued to add to these
books. In her will, which was probated after her death last year,
she left to the Museum this collection, which numbered 750 volumes.

DALL LIBRARY.

A number of books relating to mollusks was presented to the
Museum in 1892 by Dr. William Healey Dall, and he has added to
this gift from year to year. The number of titles is now about 7,500,
and these, with a comparatively small number of books from other
‘sources, make up the sectional library of the division of mollusks.
During the past year Dr. Dall has added about 50 titles. The cata-
loguing of these books was completed during the past year under
Dr. Dall’s personal direction.

TECHNOLOGICAL SERIES.

Periodicals entered on the records of the technology library have
numbered 476 complete volumes, 6,096 parts of volumes, and the new
periodical cards made for these have been 331. The cataloguing for
the year numbered 256 volumes and 747 pamphlets, requiring 1,187
separate cards. The total number of cards typewritten, periodical and
catalogue, is 1,518. In addition, about 500 volumes and 8,000 pam-
phlets have been placed on the shelves under their respective class
numbers and will be incorporated later in the records which are now
in preparation.

Books and pamphlets loaned during the year in addition to those
from the general library numbered 188 volumes and 290 single pam-
phlets and parts of periodicals, making a total number of 478 pub-
lications. About 360 books have been consulted in the reading room,
and about 3,000 books and periodicals have been transferred to the
various sections of mineral technology, textiles, and graphic arts,
and section cards made for these.

The science depository set of cards from the Library of Congress
-was received last year, and about 28,000 have been filed alphabeti-
cally. About the same number remain to be filed before the set is in
alphabetical order. When completed it will be a useful index to the
scientific resources of Washington. The catalogue has been com-
pleted for all the books in the reading room and about two-thirds of
_ the east gallery, leaving the north gallery and the remainder of the |
east gallery still to be done.

SECTIONAL LIBRARIES.

The sectional libraries of the Museum have been receiving refer-
ence publications for which receipts have been given and filed in
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

the library, but since the moving to the new building no systematic
checking has been done of what is now on the shelves in the libraries
placed in the departments and divisions. It seems desirable and
important that this matter should receive consideration, and it is
recommended that a competent cataloguer be employed to do this
special work. It is estimated that it would require a year’s time
to complete the work.
The sectional libraries now existing are as follows:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Materia medica.
Anthropology. Mechanical technology.
Biology. Mollusks.

Birds. Oriental archeology.
Botany. Paleobotany.
Comparative anatomy. Parasites,

Hditor’s office. Photography.
Hthnology. Physical anthropology.
Wishes, Prehistoric archeology.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians.
Graphic arts. Superintendent’s office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate paleontology. Vertebrate paleontology.
Mammals.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

This library is administered under the direct care of the ethnolo-
gist in charge, and a report on its operations will be found in the
general report of the bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Books relating directly to astrophysics have been brought to-
gether for the use of the Observatory. It is a valuable series of
technical works and all the publications are in constant use. During
the year 351 publications have been added, consisting of 106 volumes,
33 parts of volumes, and 212 pamphlets. There were 64 volumes °
bound at the Government Printing Office.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The collection of works on zoological subjects, which are kept
“in the office of the superintendent of the park, is not very large,
but they all relate to the work which is being carried on. During.
the year 39 volumes and 4 pamphlets have been added.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103
SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The following statement summarizes the accessions during the
year, with the exception of the library of the Bureau of American
Ethnology:

To the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts

(ia CERT NeT OF KER ER Sey ASE ee ene ae cope Led A) YS RSC SS 2 a Le ee eee ee 12, 654

To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and Zoological
[es ig" ga Dae yD ee ie te ee FS 4 eb ob MS Re a 24 hy et SO We 2k UR ie ii ot a 1, 165
Morthe: United States; National Museum: — veo. 4. eee eS 3, tae
ANCL SSS EO a op Sad eae A A eee Se DP a Wed ah er ne Soe eS fer 17, 591

Respectfully submitted.
Pauw Brockett,
Assistant Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 1.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the United States Bureau of the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature for the year ending June 30, 1914:

This enterprise was organized in 1901 and has for its object the
preparation and publication of an annual classified index to the
current literature of science. The catalogue is published in the
form of a classified book index, each paper referred to being first
listed under the author’s name and again under the subject or sub-
jects of the contents. Seventeen main volumes are issued each year,
one for each of the following-named branches of science: Mathematics,
mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology, mineralogy,
geology, geography, paleontology, general biology, botany, zoology,
anatomy, anthropology, physiology, and bacteriology.

All of the first 9 annual issues have been published, together with
16 volumes of the tenth issue, 8 volumes of the eleventh issue, and
1 volume of the twelfth, a total of 178 regular volumes, in addition
to several special volumes of schedules, lists of journals, etc. The
number of pages in each annual issue is shown in the following
table:

Pages
HITS annual iSSUC= ee eee A NERS Se Ee Se ee 7, 763
Second "annvallivissie 22.2. eS eee 8, 826
Mind FaAnNUal MISS. 2 =. See eee ee ee eee 8, 493
Mourth amin siSs ue == tts aw se ee a ee ees Be 8, 681
HitthieannWal ASS eso se ies i a ae i ee 10, 785
Shb-qan. Anavmp RN E VuSR ibe = ee bn PA aha pe hake 2 Be Ea 10, 049
Seventheammir all USSU Cee = Ee ed en ee 9, 219
BEATS NES Pye eh TUT EAN rT SS UB ea el Er I 8, 699
INinth ann Wal WiSSWUes=2 seer ee ee ee eee 7, 9383
Tenth annual: isswek #2. tpi ee a ae Se 8, 447

The large increase in size of the fifth and sixth annual issues
necessitated a change in the plan of publication, the object in view
being to reduce the bulk and consequent cost of the work while not
reducing its usefulness. This has been accomplished by printing
the full titles and references only once—that is, in the author cata-
logue—the subject catalogue containing only the author’s name and

104
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

a number referring to a like number in the author’s catalogue where
the full reference may be found. Following this plan has resulted
in a marked reduction in the size of the eighth, ninth, and tenth
issues.

The central bureau of the organization is maintained in London
and has charge of receiving, editing, and publishing the classified
references furnished by the 33 regional bureaus cooperating in the
production of the catalogue. These regional bureaus are maintained
for the most part by direct governmental grants made by the coun-
tries in which they are situated. The annual subscription price for
a complete set of 17 volumes is $85. The proceeds derived from sub-
scriptions are used entirely to support the central bureau.

During the year 28,606 cards were sent from this bureau to the
London central bureau, as follows:

Literature of—

(90D ee tH oltre ew Boat bel Fo te 169
TOO GS eis mS ey ae eee SE ae 64
BI ea ais Ea ae ea a a 13.
POOR Meus aes. ae ny RE ne Ce Oe 621
EL S)() See meee ees eee. eee Ln Se eR RS 223
TOTONLE® SONA OOSS. OS SNES Ee ey 852
AOU 8 a eee aera ate an pe tyre oe ey 2, 988
LOUD tee PRO oy Ee: PERE Us os eS Cert ae! 8, 010
Oe es se a ee eR eb 15, 546
FUNG {ce [este ee ae ee Ree AEN AZ AV PA itd WY 28, 606

The following table shows the number of cards sent each year as
well as the number of cards representing the literature of each year
from 1901 to 1913, inclusive:

Aiterstgre 1901 | 1962 | 1903 | 1904 | 1905 | 1906 | 1907 | 1908 | 1909 | 1910 | 1911 | 1912 | 1913 Po
year.
Year ending

June 30—
g0022: 2A: 6,990]......]...... pays A= a AO CER Cea Oe ee, Heese enme ee) Pema lal 6,999
eae “Se oe SR GS oe es [el aes ae Petes cael ae mene ey ie 14, 480
1904...... BOS APALS Taba -26 2) occ [oa faaade fm ocel as ar ert eee at pater k ye. 21, 213
1905...... SCION? EOIN TAS! SICMO) sufi nc ses anes acta: tas =| sows. |cand<|-na-e-lecesen|uoese 24, 182
90623 =. 301, 622) 3, 56H 2188) °9, OOH S. SLES yt OS A pe 25, 601
L007 2 ok SRe Pibitie: S63)'6, 27 3|. 0 Oato G78) ts a2 oth Sec | sos|-- soc afee-ceafter to 28, 629
1908...... AOR eb HOI a RBG! POSG NG TODO TA Bt7/1S, 400| ase ten. clay lee Ae ohe ye 2 28, 528
1909...... 123). 235378! 309] 45656) 4,410) /8,.500|18, 784. 2.2] coo = =ee we a feoe-seleas-s- 34, 409
rt) 72| 173| 248) 465] 1,163] 1, 502] 3, 160] 6, 305/11, 994|......|......]-....-[...--- 25, 082
yh eae 3} 26] 28] 218] 129} 374) 423) 1,301) 8,836]14, 682)......]......]...... 26, 020
ESE ae Rae 4| 243} 386] 562} 1,480] 1,949] 3,372) 5, 231]13,974)......|...... 27, 201
ea Ae 9} 5 12) 14] 131) 226] 324) 685] 3, 214] 6, 950/16, 425]... -. 27,995
cI athe 2 Ko 2 ce) a 169] 64] 133} 621} 223] 852| 2, 988] 8, O10|15, 546] 28, 606
Total ..|19, 104|22, 633/25, 312!28, 254/27, 169/26, 838|27, 360|29, 284 Ps 110/23, 979/23, 912/24, 435]15, 546|318, 936

106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

As has been pointed out in several previous annual reports, this
enterprise is in no sense commercial, and should be freed from the
necessity of depending entirely on subscription for its maintenance.
A comparatively small endowment would materially aid in improv-
ing the form and expanding the scope of the index to include some
of the applied sciences. Could this be done, it is more than probable
that increased demands would more than make up for increased ex-
pense, for when the catalogue meets the demands of the applied
sciences, as it now does those of pure science, it will become a gen-
eral work of reference for all branches of arts and industries. The
organization is complete and satisfactory, and its usefulness could
be greatly increased by the expenditure of a comparatively small sum
annually.

No advance or improvement can, however, be undertaken until
an assured additional income becomes available.

The International Catalogue was originally organized by a num-
ber of international conferences, the third of which met in London
in July, 1900. The delegates there assembled provided that an
international convention should meet in London in 1905, in 1910,
and every tenth year thereafter to reconsider and revise, if neces-
sary, the regulations governing the enterprise.

It was provided also that an international: council should meet
in London at least once every three years to regulate the affairs of
the catalogue between two successive meetings of the convention.
A meeting of this international council was held June 11 and 12,
1914, and after authorizing the necessary contracts for the continua-
tion of the enterprise and disposing of a number of other routine
matters, discussed the very vital question of altering and revising
the classification schedules. It was provided that further alteration
would best be made by the introduction of subdivisions to the now
existing schedules, such subdivisions to be suggested by the regional
bureaus as the need for them should appear.

Very respectfully, yours,
Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
year ending June 30, 1914:

The Institution proper published during the year 36 papers in the
series of “ Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,” an annual report,
and pamphlet copies of 38 papers from the general appendix of the
report. The Bureau of American Ethnology published 2 bulletins
and a separate paper, and the United States National Museum issued
2 annual reports, 49 miscellaneous papers from the proceedings, 9
new bulletins and parts, and 9 parts of volumes pertaining to the
National Herbarium.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the Insti-
tution proper during the year was 107,471. The aggregate includes
1,229 volumes of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge; 59,777
volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections;
23,279 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports;
6,483 special publications; 1,477 copies of volume 3, Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory; 775 reports of the Harriman Alaska
Expedition ; 12,819 volumes and separates of the Bureau of American
Ethnology publications; 1,412 annual reports of the American His-
torical Association; 26 publications of the United States National
Museum; and 194 publications not of the Smithsonian Institution or
its branches. Additional copies of the third edition of the Smith-
sonian Geographical Tables were printed just before the close of the
year. There were also distributed by the National Museum 93,200
copies of its several publications, making a total of 202,671 publica-
tions distributed by the Institution and its branches during the year.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.
QUARTO.
No publications of this series were issued during the year.
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.
OCTAVO,

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 57, 3 papers were pub-
lished; of volume 59, 1 paper, and title-page and table of contents;

of volume 60, 2 papers, and title-page and table of contents; of vol-
107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

ume 61, 21 papers, and title-page and table of contents; of volume 62,
2 papers; of volume 63, 6 papers; and of volume 64, 1 paper; in all,
36 papers, as follows:

Volume 57.

No. 11. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. New Lower Cambrian sub-
fauna. By Charles D. Walcott. Published July 21, 1918. Pp. 309-
326, pls. 50-54. (Publ. 2185.)

No. 12. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. Cambrian formations of the
Robson Peak district, British Columbia and Alberta, Canada. By
Charles D. Walcott. July 24, 1918. Pp. 327-3848, pls. 55-59. (Publ.
2186.)

No. 18. Cambrian geology and paleontology. II. Dikelocephalus and other gen-
era of the Dikelocephalinew, By Charles D. Walcott. April 4, 1914.
Pp. 3845-412 and index, pls. 60-70. (Publ. 2187.)

[Title-page and table of contents.] (Publ. 2270.) In press.

Volume 59.

No. 19. Harly Norse Visits to North America. By William H. Babcock. July
9, 1913. iii4+-213 pp., 10 pls.
Title-page and table of contents. vi pp. August 7, 1918. (Publ. 2234.)

Volume 60.

No. 28. The influence of the atmosphere on our health and comfort in confined
and crowded places. By Leonard Hill, Martin Flack, James Mc-
Intosh, R. A. Rowlands, and H. B. Walker. Hodgkins Fund. July
15, 1913. 96 pp.° (Publ. 2170.)

No. 30. Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1912.
March 28, 1913. 76 pp., 82 figs. (End of volume.) (Publ. 2178.)

Title-page and table of contents. August 7, 19138. vi pp. (Publ. 2285.)

Volume 61.

No. 1. The White Rhinoceros. By Edmund Heller. October 11, 1918. 77 pp.,
31 pls. (Publ. 2180.) [Nos. 2 to 5 of this volume were published
during previous year. ]
No. 6. Great stone monuments in history and geography. By J. Walter Mewkes.
September 15, 1913. 50 pp. (Publ. 2229.)
No.7. New races of antelopes from British East Africa. By Edmund Heller.
July 31, 19138. 13 pp. (Publ. 22381.)
No. 8. The comparative histology of the femur. By Dr. J. 8S. Foote. August
PRY UGIIBY Ohio, Siok — (Geli PARP)
No. 9. Descriptions of three new African weaver birds of the genera Estrilda
and Granatina. By Edgar A. Mearns. July 31, 1913. 4 pp. (Publ.
2236.)
No. 10. Descriptions of four new African thrushes of the genera Planesticus and
Geocichla. By Edgar A. Mearns. August 11, 1918. 5 pp. (Publ.
2237.)

No. 11. Descriptions of six new African birds. By Edgar A. Mearns. August
30; 1913. 5 pp. (Publ. 2238?)

No. 12. Populus Macdougalii. A new tree from the Southwest. By J. N. Rose.
September 3, 1918. 2 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 2289.)

No. 13. New antelopes and carnivores from British East Africa. By Edmund
Heller. September 16, 1918. 15 pp. (Publ. 2240.)
==
INO. 2

14.

5 1s

«aU.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

Descriptions of five new African weaver birds of the genera Othy-
phantes, Hypargos, Aidemosyne, and Lagonostica. By Edgar A.
Mearns. September 20, 1918. 5 pp. (Publ. 2241.)

. Notes on the recent crinoids in the British Museum. By Austin Hobart

Clark. December 31, 1918. 89 pp. (Publ. 2242.)

}. A new shrub of the genus Esenbeckia from Colombia. By Dr. K.

Krause. September 29,1913. 1p. (Publ. 22438.)

7. New races of ungulates and primates from Equatorial Africa. By Ed-

mund Heller. October 21, 1918. 12 pp. (Publ. 2245.)

. Anthropological work in Peru in 1913, with notes on the pathology of

the ancient Peruvians. By Dr. AleS Hrdlicka. February 12, 1914.
69 pp., 26 pls. (Publ. 2246.)
New races of carnivora and baboons from Equatorial Africa and Abys-
sinia. By Edmund Heller. November 8, 1913. 12 pp. (Publ. 2248.)
Descriptions of 10 new African birds of the genera Pogonocichla, Cos-
sypha, Bradypterus, Sylvietta, Melaniparus, and Zosterops. By Edgar
A. Mearns. November 29, 1918. 8 pp. (Publ. 2251.)

. Fifty-one new Malayan mammals. By Gerrit 8. Miller, jr. December

29, 1913. 30, pp... (Publ. 2252.)

. Four new subspecies of large mammals from Equatorial Africa. By

Edmund Heller. January 26, 1914. 7 pp. (Publ. 2255.)

. A new genus of Mallophaga from African guinea fowl in the United

States National Museum. By Jobn Howard Paine. January 31, 1914.
4 pp. (Publ. 2258.)

. New Sapindacee from Panama and Costa Rica. By Prof. Dr. L.

Radlkofer. February 9, 1914. 8 pp. (Publ. 2259.)

. Descriptions of eight new African Bulbuls. By Edgar A. Mearns. IT eb-

ruary 16, 1914. 6 pp. (Publ. 2260.)

Title-page and table of contents. March 13, 1914. vi pp. (Publ. 2265.)

No.

Volume 62.

. Advisory Committee on the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory. Hodg-

kins Fund. July 17, 1918. 5 pp. (Publ. 2227.)

. Hydromechanic experiments with flying-boat hulls. By H. C. Richard-

son. Hodgkins Fund. April 20, 1914. 9 pp., 6 pls. (Publ. 2253.)

. Report on European aeronautical laboratories. By A. F. Zahm. 23 pp.,

11 pls. (Publ. 2273.) In press.

Volume 68.

. Atmospheric air in relation to tuberculosis. By Guy Hinsdale. Hodg-

kins Fund. June 22, 1914. 186 pp., 93 pls. (Publ. 2254.)

. Notes on some specimens of a species of Onychophore (Oroperipatus cor-

radoi) new to the fauna of Panama. By Austin Hobart Clark. Febru-
ary 21, 19147) 2 pp: (Publ. 2261.)

. A new Ceratopsian dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Montana,

with note on Hypacrosaurus. By Charles W. Gilmore. March 21,
1914. 10 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 2262.)

. On the relationship of the genus Aulacocarpus, with description of a new

Panamanian species. By H. Pittier. March 18, 1914. 4 pp. (Publ.
2264.)

. Descriptions of five new mammals from Panama. By HE. A. Goldman.

March 14, 1914. 7 pp. (Publ. 2266.)
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

No. 6. Physical Tables. Sixth edition. F. HE. Fowle. (Publ. 2269.) In press.
No. 7. New subspecies of mammals from Equatorial Africa. By Edmund
Heller. June 24,1914. 12 pp. (Publ. 2272.)

Volume 64.

No.1. Cambrian geology and paleontology. III. The Cambrian Faunas of East-
ern Asia. By Charles D. Walcott. April 22, 1914. Pp. 1-76, pls. 1-3.
(Publ. 2263.)

No. 2. Cambrian geology and paleontology. III. Pre-Cambrian Algonkian Algal

Flora. By Charles D. Walcott. Pp. 77-156, pls. 4-28. (Publ. 2271.)
in press.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.
Report for 1912.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1912 was received
from the Public Printer in completed form in October, 1913.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1912. xii, 780 pp., 72 pls. (Publ. 2188.)

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general ap-
pendix of the annual report for 1912, were issued in pamphlet form:

The year’s progress in astronomy. By P. Puiseux. 8 pp. (Publ. 2189.)

The spiral nebule. By P. Puiseux. 10 pp. (Publ. 2190.)

The radiation of the sun. By C. G. Abbot. 18 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 2191.)

Molecular theories and mathematics. By Emile Borel. 20 pp. (Publ. 2192.)

Modern mathematical research. By G. A. Miller. 12 pp. (Publ. 2193.)

The connection between the ether and matter. By Henri Poincaré. 12 pp.
(Publ. 2194.)

Experiments with soap bubbles. By C. V. Boys. 8 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 2195.)

Measurements of infinitesimal quantities of substances. By William Ramsay.
11 pp. (Publ. 2196.)

The latest achievements and problems of the chemical industry. By Carl
Duisberg. 26 pp. (Publ. 2197.)

Holes in the air. By W. J. Humphreys. 12 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 2198.)

Review of applied mechanics. By L. Lecornu. 16 pp. (Publ. 2199.)

Report on the recent great eruption of the volcano “ Stromboli.” By Frank A.
Perret. 5 pp., 9 pls. (Publ. 2200.)

The glacial and postglacial lakes of the Great Lakes region. By Frank B.
Taylor. 37 pp. (Publ. 2201.)

Applied geology. By Alfred H. Brooks. 24 pp. (Publ. 2202.)

The relations of paleobotany to geology. By F. H. Knowlton. 6 pp. (Publ.
2203.)

Geophysical research. By Arthur L. Day. 11 pp. (Publ. 2204.)

A trip to Madagascar, the country of beryls. By A. Lacroix. 12 pp. (Publ.
2205.)

The fluctuating climate of North America. By Elsworth Huntington. 30 pp.,
10 pls. (Publ. 2206.)

The survival of organs and the “culture” of living tissues. By R. Legendre.
8 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 2207.)

Adaptation and inheritance in the light of modern experimental investigation.
By Paul Kammerer. 21 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 2208.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 111

The paleogeographical relations of antarctica. By Charles Hedley. 11 pp.
(Publ. 2209.)

The ants and their guests. By P. E. Wasmann. 20 pp.,10 pls. (Publ. 2210.)

The penguins of the antarctic regions. By L. Gain. 8 pp., 9 pls. (Publ. 2211.)

The derivation of the European domestic animals. By ©. Keller. 9 pp. (Publ.
2212.)

Life: its nature, origin, and maintenance. By EH. A. Schifer. 33 pp. (Publ.
2213.)

The origin of life: a chemist’s fantasy. By H. E. Armstrong. 15 pp. (Publ.
2214.)

The appearance of life on worlds and the hypothesis of Arrhénius. By Alphonse
Berget. 9 pp. (Publ. 2215.)

The evolution of man. By G. Elliot Smith. 20 pp. (Publ. 2216.)

The history and varieties of human speech. By Edward Sapir. 238 pp. (Publ.
2217.)

Ancient Greece and its slave population. By S. Zaborowski. 12 pp. (Publ.
2218.)

Origin and evolution of the blond Europeans. By Adolphe Bloch. 22 pp. (Publ.
2219, )

History of the finger-print system. By Berthold Laufer. 22 pp., 7 pls. (Publ.
2220.)

Urbanism: A historic, geographic, and economic study. By Pierre Clerget.
15 pp. (Publ. 2221.)

The Sinai problem. By E. Oberhummer. 9 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 2222.

The music of primitive peoples and the beginnings of Huropean music. By
Willy Pastor. 22 pp. (Publ. 2223.

Expedition to the South Pole. By Roald Amundsen. 16 pp. (Publ. 2224.)

Icebergs and their location in navigation. By Howard T. Barnes. 24 pp., 3 pls.
(Buble 2225.)

* Henri Poincaré, his scientific work, his philosophy. By Charles Nordmann.

23 pp. (Publ. 2226.)

Report for 1915.

The report of the executive committee and proceedings of the
Board of Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the
Secretary for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913, both forming part
of the annual report of the Board of Regents to Congress, were pub-
lished in pamphlet form in November and December, respectively,
1913, as follows:

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents

for the year ending June 30, 1918. 21 pp. (Publ. 2250.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1918. iii, 119 pp., 1 pl. (Publ. 2249.)

The general appendix to the Smithsonian Report for 1913 was in
type, but actual presswork was not completed at the close of the fiscal
year. In the general appendix are the following papers:

The earth and sun as magnets, by George E. Hale.
The reaction of the planets upon the sun, by P. Puiseux.

Recent progress in astrophysics, by C. G. Abbot.
The earth’s magnetism, by L. A. Bauer.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Modern ideas on the end of the world, by Gustav Jaumann.

Recent developments in electromagnetism, by Eugene Bloch.

Wireless transmission of energy, by Elihu Thomson.

Oil films on water and on mercury, by Henri Devaux.

Water and voleanic activity, by Arthur L. Day and E. 8. Shepherd.

Ripple marks, by Ch. Epry.

Notes on the geological history of the walnuts and hickories, by Edward W.
Berry.

The formation of leafmold, by Frederick V. Coville.

The development of orchid cultivation and its bearing upon evolutionary theories,
by J. Costantin.

The manufacture of nitrates from the atmosphere, by Ernest Kilburn Scott.

The geologic history of China and its influence upon the Chinese people, by
Eliot Blackwelder.

The problems of heredity, by E. Apert.

Habits of fiddler-crabs, by A. S. Pearse.

The abalones of California, by Charles L. Edwards.

The value of birds to man, by James Buckland.

Experiments in feeding hummingbirds during seven summers, by Althea R.
Sherman.

What the American Bird Banding Association has accomplished during 1912,
by Howard H. Cleaves.

The whale fisheries of the world, by Charles Rabot.

The most ancient skeletal remains of man, by AleS Hrdliéka.

The redistribution of mankind, by H. N. Dickson.

The earliest forms of human habitation, and their relation to the general de-
velopment of civilization, by M. Hoernes.

Feudalism in Persia; its origin, development, and present condition, by Jacques
de Morgan.

Shintoism and its significance, by K. Kanokogi.

The Minoan and Mycenaean element in Hellenic life, by A. J. Evans.

Flameless combustion, by Carleton Ellis.

Problems in smoke, fume, and dust abatement, by F. G. Cottrell.

Twenty years’ progress in marine construction, by Alexander Gracie.

Creating a subterranean river and supplying a metropolis with mountain water,
by J. Bernard Walker and A. Russell Bond.

The application of the physiology of color vision in modern art, by Henry G.
Keller and J. J. R. Macleod.

Fundamentals of housing reform, by James Ford.

The economic and social role of fashion, by Pierre Clerget.

The work of J. van’t Hoff, by G. Bruni.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following publications were issued in octavo form:

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution April 25,
1914. Published April 25, 1914. vi+82 pp. (Publ. 2268.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and June
SO, 19s. wily 1b, 1913. 2 pp. Cebubly 22285)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
September 30, 1918. October 14, 1918. 4 pp. (Publ. 2244.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
December 31, 1918. January 22, 1914. 4 pp. (Publ. 2257.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. bUS

Publications issued by the Smithsonian Institution between January 1 and
March 31, 1914. April 10, 1914.. 1p. (Publ. 2267.)

Opinions rendered by the International Commission on i peniaiees Nomenclature,
Opinions 57-65. March 26, 1914. Pp. 181-169. (Publ. 2256.)

An account of the exercises on the occasion of the presentation of the Langley
Medal and the unveiling of the Langley Memorial Tablet, May 6, 1913,
including the addresses. October 13, 1913. 26 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 2233.)

Harriman Aldska series.

Vol. 14. Monograph of shallow-water starfishes of the north Pacific coast from
the Arctic Ocean to California. Part I, text; part II, plates. By Addison
Emery Verrill. April 30, 1914. xii+408 pp., 110 pls. (Publ. 2140.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (0b) the proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum; and (c) the bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the contributions from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

The publications issued by the National Museum during the year
comprised 49 papers of the proceedings, 2 annual reports, 9 bulletins
and parts, and 9 parts of Contributions from the National Her-
barium.

The issues of the proceedings were as follows: Vol. 45, papers
1976, 1985, 2005, 2006, and 2007; vol. 46, papers 2008 to 2042, in-
clusive; vol. 47, papers 2043 to 2051, inclusive; Annual Report of
the United States National Museum ae 1912; and Annual poe Dae of
the United States National Museum for 1913.

The bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 50, part 6, Birds of North and Middle America. By Robert Ridgway.

Bulletin 71, part 3, A monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific
Ocean, Part III, Lagenide. By Joseph Augustine Cushman.

Bulletin 71, part 4, A monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific
Ocean, Part IV, Chilostomellide, Globigerinide, Nummulitide. By Joseph
Augustine Cushman.

Bulletin 80. A descriptive account of the building recently erected for the de-
partments of natura@history of the United States National Museum. By
Richard Rathbun.

Bulletin 83. Type species of the genera of Ichneumon flies. By Henry L.
Viereck.

Bulletin 84. A contribution to the study of Ophiurans of the United States
National Museum. By Rene Koehler.

' Bulletin 85. A monograph of the jumping plant lice or Psyllide of the New
World. By David L. Crawford.

Bulletin 86. A monograph of the genus Chordeiles Swainson, type of a new
family of goatsuckers. By Harry C. Oberholser.

Bulletin 87. Culture of the ancient pueblos of the upper Gila River region,
New Mexico and Arizona. By Walter Hough.

73176°—sm 1914——_8
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium there
appeared :
Volume 16.
Part 10. Annona sericea and its allies. By William E. Safford
Part 11. Nomenclature of the Sapote and the Sapodilla. By O. I. Cook.
Part 12. A monograph of the Hauyesr and Gongylocarpex, tribes of the Ona-
gracee. By J. Donald Smith and J. N. Rose.
Part 13. Botrychium virginianum and its forms Sphenoclea zeylanica and
Caperonia palustris in the southern United States. By Ivar Tidestrom.

Volume 17.

Part 8. Mexican grasses in the United States National Herbarium. By A: S.
Hitchcock.

Part 4. Studies of tropical American ferns. By William R. Maxon.

Part 5. Studies of tropical American Phanerogams—No. 1. By Paul C. Standley.

Volume 18.

Part 1. Classification of the genus Annona with descriptions of new and imper-
fectly known species. By W. EH. Safford.
Part 2. New or noteworthy plants from Colombia and Central America—.

By Henry Pittier.

There was also reprinted an edition of 200 copies each of parts
A, K, and P of Bulletin 39, United States National Museum, direc-
tions for collecting birds, by Robert Ridgway, directions for collect-
ing and preparing fossils, by Charles Schuchert, directions for col-
lectors of American basketry, by Otis T. Mason; an edition of 500
copies of Bulletin 67, directions for collecting and preserving insects,
by Nathan Banks; an edition of 2,000 copies of list of publications
issued by the United States National Museum from 1906 to 1912,
reprinted from annual reports with altered pagination; and an edi-
tion of 1,300 copies of a list of publications of the United States
National Museum issued during the fiscal year 1912-13, reprinted
from the annual report with altered pagination.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in Appendix 2 of the
Secretary’s report. The editorial work is in the charge of Mr. J. G.
Gurley, who has been assisted from time to time by Mrs. Frances S.
Nichols.

Two bulletins and a “separate” from another bulletin were issued
during the year, as follows:

Bulletin 58. Chippewa music—II. By Frances Densmore.
Bulletin 56. Ethnozoology of the. Tewa Indians. By Junius Henderson and

John P. Harrington.

Coos: An illustrative sketch. By Leo J. Resahtenvers. Extract from Hand-

book of American Indian Languages (Bulletin 40), part 2

At the close of the year two annual reports and several bulletins
were 1n press.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 115

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVA-
TORY.

Volume Iil, Annals of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, by C. G.
Abbot, F. E. Fowle, and L. B. Aldrich. July 16, 1918, xi+241 pp., 7 pls.
(Publ... 2230.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
of the act of incorporation of the association.

Volumes 1 and 2 of the annual report for 1911 were published
November 10, 1918, and January 14, 1914, respectively, with con-
tents as follows

Volume TI.

Report of the proceedings of the twenty-seventh annual meeting of the Ameri-
ean Historical Association. By Waldo G. Leland, secretary.
Report of the proceedings of the eighth annual meeting of the Pacific coast
branch. By H. W. Edwards, secretary of the branch.
The archives of the Venetian Republic. By Theodore IF. Jones.
Materials for the history of Germany in the sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
turies. By Sidney B. Fay.
The materials for the study of the English cabinet in the eighteenth century.
By Edward Raymond Turner.
Francois de Guise and the taking of Calais. By Paul van Dyke.
Factions in the English privy council under Elizabeth. By Conyers Read.
Anglo-Dutch relations, 1671-72. By Edwin W. Pahlow.
American-Japanese intercourse prior to the advent of Perry. By Inazo Nitobe.
Colonial society in America. By Bernard Moses.
French diplomacy and American politics, 1794-95. By James Alton James.
The insurgents of 1811. By D. R. Anderson.
The tariff and the public lands from 1828 to 1833. By Barnes G. Wellington.
The “Bargain of 1844” as the origin of the Wilmot proviso. By Clark E.
Persinger.
Monroe and the early Mexican revolutionary agents. By Isaac Joslin Cox.
Public opinion in Texas preceding the Revolution. By Eugene C. Barker.
Relations of America with Spanish America, 1720-1744. By H. W. V. Tem-
perley.
The genesis of the Confederation of Canada. By Cephas D. Allin.
Proceedings of the eighth annual conference of historical societies.
List of European historical societies.
Twelfth report of the public archives commission. By Herman Y. Ames,
chairman. -
Appendix A. Proceedings of the third annual conference of archivists.
Appendix B. Report on the archives of the State of Colorado. By James
F. Willard.
Appendix C. List of commissions and instructions to governors and lieuten-
ant governors of American and West Indian Colonies, 1609-1784.
Writings on American history, 1911. By Grace G. Griffin.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

Volume IT.

Ninth report of the historical manuscripts commission: Correspondence of
Alexander Stephens, Howell Cobb, and Robert Toombs.

The report for 1912 was sent to the printer on January 31, 1914,
and at the close of the year was nearly ready for distribution. The
contents are as follows:

Report of the proceedings of the twenty-eighth annual meeting of the American
Historical Association.
Report of the proceedings of the ninth annual meeting of the Pacific coast
branch. By H. W. Edwards, secretary of the branch.
Royal finances of the reign of Henry III. By Henry L. Cannon.
Antecedents of the Quattrocento. By Henry O. Taylor.
The new Columbus. By Henry P. Biggar.
The charter of Connecticut. By Clarence W. Bowen.
The enforcement of the alien and sedition acts. By Frank M. Anderson.
The reviewing of historical books. By Carl Becker.
Briefer papers read in conferences:
A. Libya as a field of research. By Oric Bates.
B. The international character of commercial history. By Abbott P. Usher.
C. Some new manuscript sources for the history of modern commerce. By
N. S. B. Gras.
D. The study of South American commercial history. By Charles L.
; Chandler.
E. On the economics of slavery, 1815-1860. By Ulrich B. Phillips.
F. On the history of Pennsylvania, 1815-1860. By P. Orman Ray.
G. Historical research in the far west. By Katherine Coman.
Proceedings of the conference on military history.
Proceedings of the ninth annual conference of historical societies :
Genealogy and history. By Charles K. Bolton.
The Massachusetts Historical Society. By Worthington C. Ford.
Appendix: Reports of historical societies, 1912.
Thirteenth report of the Public Archives Commission:
Appendix A. Proceedings of the fourth annual conference of archivists.
Plan and scope of a “ Manual of Archival Economy for the use of American
Archivists.” By Victor H. Palsits.
Some fundamental principles in relation to archives. By Waldo G. Leland.
The adaptation of archives to public use. By Dunbar Rowland.
Appendix B. Report on the archives of the State of Louisiana. By Prof.
William O. Scroggs.
Appendix C. Report on the archives of the State of Montana. By Paul C.
Phillips.
Classified list of publications of the American Historical Association, 1885-1912.
Tenth report of the historical manuscripts commission :
Letters of William Vans Murray to John Quincy Adams, 1797-1803. Edited
by Worthington C. Ford.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Sixteenth Annual Report of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution for the year
ending October 11, 1913, was communicated to Congress June 16,
1914.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. | Wa EY

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. To this committee
have been referred the manuscripts proposed for publication by the
various branches of the Institution, as well as those offered for print-
ing in the Smithsonian publications. The committee also considered
forms of routine, blanks, and various matters pertaining to printing
and publication, including the qualities of paper suitable for text
and plates. Twenty meetings were held and 121 manuscripts were
acted upon. . . ;

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp Criarx, Editor.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1914.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National’ Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature for the year ending June 30, 1914, together with
balances of previous appropriations:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1914.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

BegquestiotySmithson gl 8462225 ee ee a eee ee $515, 169. 00
Residuanrylegadcycol Smithson SG =e eee ee ee 26, 210. 63
IDO SE aoe Shhyabarys Gue maKKoe, WH. oe Se 108, 620. 37
Bequest ofeJames Hamilton, 1877p 25222 2 $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895_________ 1, 000. 00

a 2, 000. 00
BEQuUesteotasiMeOn PE aD el el SS (es ae ee ee eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881___________________ 51, 500. 00
Gittyor THOMAS {Gs OG SAM Seal SO se ea ee ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
DE POSTE RELOMNGS VAT SS gO fe COT Cel 9 (0) 5s eee ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgins, 1907__________________. 7, 918. 69
Deposit ptromysavings of income, 10l3= eee 636. 94
BequestyotawalliampsonessRhees, 1 Gils ess ee eee 251. 95
Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert Stan-

OTM ASY Etry gy ory 1th cs cet oe a ae 9, 692. 42
BequestvoteAgdison Ty Reidy Ola so. a eee eee 4, 795. 91
Deposit of savings from income of Avery bequest, 1914--_________ 204. 09

Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury_______ 960, 500. 00

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) ____________ 42, 000. 00

Total permanent, Tung == se= ewe a les Le ee eee 1, 002, 500. 00

Also three small pieces of real estate located in the District of Columbia and
bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of Washington, D. C.

118
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTER, 119

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution,
and the act approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate
received from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and
yields only a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1913, to June 30, 1914.

RECEIPTS.
CuchwongdepOStemuUly edi, POUR Lo ot ol a eee $33, 641. 40
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,

uel Me oO vandedan, 1. 1914 sat ee ee Oe eee $57, 314. 29
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1,

TONS ane sane lt OA ee Be Gir ori DP ty Biceps eh Te 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete__________ _-_____ 9, 638. 14
Contributions from various sources for specific purposes. 17, 554. 20
EEQueNimOla cA OGISON, lh. (@iG 22322 ah 4, 795, 91

——_——— 90, 982. 54
124, 623. 94
DISBURSEMENTS.
Een SamCaAreranG TENA S 2 sn oe $5, 578. 43
EMEC M a Tanti SbUNCS a ee a ee 1, 755. 91
General expenses:
SELL UT ETESSIS 21s TSE SS 2 SS aa aS en an RT eee $18, 969. 72
MEE GIT Os ees see eer Bw pee po PS eS 102. 00
So UGS a eae a el ee Se De Ree ee ee ne 743. 25
Postage, telegraph, and telephone_________________ 594. 87
1 ANTE STS OU es aa a oe epee ph I eS la alba 100.81
inerdentals; tuel.y and. Wohts 2 2 eo eee TOb2. 20
CSREES eS 2 pe ge Spt Ne i i ES Lie ee De a A ae ee at 2, 973. 29
—————— 24, 535. 67
BUSES cab Ts gee ere ee Ne ee RO Oe se a ee 2, 399. 50
Publications and their distribution:
Contributions, to’ Knowledge === 22 25. 00
Miscellaneous. collections —— = ne 5, 864. 28
Dare ach Y St Ee Sek 2 ee SES aap eee ieee a 617. 438
Speci publications: Assays be 454. 88
Eubbearion: jSipplies,...%: 5) ao. es Aa ea 776. 92
SRUUSDTPICERSEE 2a OS UE ERIS. pe PaaS ae ee enn 6, 971. 48
_ 14, 709. 99
Eisplorations, researches, and: collections... 16, 142. 83
Hodgkins specific fund, researches, and publications____-§_-_-______ 6, 601. 85
PPR AGOn ale HECChan POS skew Be a) 4, 752. 70
callenye? ofy SAELt tex Peteptes. ss rote Toth. el Syed ahs heey peer hE ce 431. 80

Advances) for. field expenses;, etcs..5.22-. 1 = iD ed, Salieeee 2 Sits 11, 431. 40
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Deposited, to) credit: of. permanent fund st e-5 eh 3 a ee $5, 000. 00
Langley, Acrodynamical sialbonatory see: 2 lee ee ee 728. 73
94, 0638. 81
Balance, June 30, 1914, deposited with the Treas-
MIRE LOL, THe AWa beGeSbAteS ss ce ee ee $30, 360. 138
CGPS Ye Cora eee aa 0 | Sea he eee eer ee a ER 200. 00

124, 623. 94

By authority your executive committee again employed Mr. Wil-
liam L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the receipts
and disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the period
covered by this report. The following certificate of examination
supports the foregoing statement and is hereby approved:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution.

Strs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, and certify the following to be a
correct statement :

Total GishursSeMentSs = os <4 be ee ee $94, 068. 81
BRO FANSTEC CIOS eee ed a INT Sole Seed ee ae RN ee 90, 982. 54
Excess of disbursements over receipts____________________ =. Se, O81R2T
AMTOUIMEREROMIG SLY: led Oil eees hee REE ee Sie 2 Se ee ae ee 33, 641. 40
Balanceron, Han ds TUT sO eel Omelet cee de ey ae 30, 560. 13
Balance shown by Treasury statement June 380, 1914______________ 34, 779. 94
DESSSHSU CON DIL SY cet 0UCG Wa OHH BY 24) Feta a pa Lee pe nario 4, 419. 81
30, 860. 18

Cashion tin Cees, See Ss ee ee ea een ee 2k oe Se ay Sa 200. 00
Eruebalancer une a0. Olas 222 = SS ears ee ee eee 80, 560. 13

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of
the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

(Signed) WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.
Avaust 10, 1914.

Certified a true copy.
W. I. ADAMS,

Accountant, Smithsonian Institution.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of
the Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress and will be found in the printed
document.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, bal |

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1914 intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June
30, 1914:

Available | Balance
after July June 30,
1, 1913. 1914,
Appropriations committed by Congress to the care of the institution:

fattermmauionalslxchanges: LOL2 = sie oe ees aoc aee Oe aes oe & Sees sees oe $0. 31 130.31
Piirnamonaldxchanges. LOI 22 oat Sees cose oo lee wee See tee 4,065. 41 . 02
Tnternational Exchanges, DO They ae Saat ee cine lane one neo te at = Soc oes 32, 000. 00 1, 622. 22
AoNBTICAT EnLNNOLO Pye Oba tess ose- etae oan See nite ecina oe tate ce ee eee eae oe 50. 56 1 45,31
AGHOMIGATIOH UNNOLOP YE 1 Ol Sena ceak coe mecca ac seleisies sereisle sidejems weclae cise ecisle A= 4, 288. 61 1, 250. 74
PIMerican Hunn ology Olas ees a ees oe ose seb oe See te 5- = SEI 42,000. 00 2,676. 68
AStroph ySicuh@ bservatory,, 1912-30 25101 25. veh. ESS IY Ee cats ook. 612. 59 1 225. 59
AStrophiysical© pserveatorypl Ole) ceed a. «atic oe «2c 'sce a2 a5 gee t= aces em aan 516. 38 142. 42
Astrophysical Observatory, 1914.74 2.20. LES. 2 13,000. 00 779. 87
Bookstacks, Government bureau libraries, MOE BSS Seon GR eeCetap aesee secs 15, 000. 00 13,559. 77
International Cathlorue, 1912s. (S223 F2 1S 4 2 SR ee A a SER od 25. 95 125.95
International Catalogue, MOUS Sie oer ee ret oop th eg oy fs aa 2 681. 58 291. 73
imternavioual catalogue: Olas... 222 tthe ee. SE2 Sie 7,500. 00 720. 09
National Museum—

RuLMtHroand fxtures: O12) 2.2 Sil sss. is ee er ee

Rurniture’and fixtures) 1913. . 24-4 cess s 2.5 gone Fee een eee

MEarMILUTe ANG fixtures) 1914 54S. Joe SR AREA ee oe wale de oc Sosa

iHeaimerand Vehting Ole on oo 2 as Meme eee Ab ot wna cee =

Heaiimeiind liehting; V9I3:- 22! ea es es ths ce LS oo ets. a2 otek

Heating and lighting, 1914..................-. ee Se ee sae ae

Preservation of collections, 1912

Preservation of collections, 1913

Preservation of collections, 1914

TETGOK Selb ee oe ae laine Seis cia lees ee ae aecie

IOS hOl teeter. ee sense she ec isee ack Ree ee eck eee = on sete aaa aes

kc Oh aeee ee tae eA eae home em woe ae we eemeew omnes we eee eaesets

JES DEG) NOMA Wo coocuacsansoa essed seas soe agaone sue Sane caseessscDseaeSs|

Bidinerepairs LOUD = 2 se eee rere ee es ys | ED a es

Bmldingwreparss (Olea cee we wee eee ea don cc tee soa ceee cee eeete

SIP EOTE DD AINS pL OLE eee ee ee eee nce as. ihn ac Se eateawscatee cleiae els amine

Bile NAponaliMuseuIne Sep fhe = sc. 55- ok nasa tees delamnschecsenciess
NON AlLAoolppicaliParks S9lQNIsrh 2. S387 5 ff 5 400 Ree oS Rea
National Zoolosical-Park, 1913). 3225424 os fhe 2 ie se Be SS ee eases 59.
National Zoological Park, TOUS EAA St SERRE SR RSE A ee tee 100,000. 00 6, 210.30
Bridge over Rock Creek, National ZAooloricalibark. ssrA eS - 18, 224. 02 3,018. 67

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.

Statement of estimated income from the Smithsonian fund and from other
sources, accrued and prospective, available during the fiscal year ending June
30, 1915.

ae Comin ene el OU Asamn ieee a Sea ee ee A ee $30, 560. 13
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,
ue uly, TOT ands Samet, OUT tt esl ety be ee $57, 630. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1914,
EVO cl holy Ley Ways a Sem Pa PEE a SES aed TE Eee ees 2 ee YE 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of ad-
WEslavereis! S20 a eee SS Se 2b Seen CMe he Mees ee PASTY ER SOEs 13, 882. 85
MEDOSLUS sLOnESPECING, PURPOSCS2 42 ee ee 12, 405. 00

85, 597. 85
Total available for year ending June 30, 1915________________ “116, 157. 98
Respectfully submitted.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
Mavricr Connotty,

Executive Committee.
Wasurneton, D. C.,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONTAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE
30, 1914.

ANNUAL MEETING, JANUARY 15, 1914.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the
United States, chancellor, in the chair; the Hon. Thomas R. Marshall,
Vice President of the United States; Senator A. O. Bacon; Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge; Senator William J. Stone; Representative
Scott Ferris; Representative Maurice Connolly; Representative
- Ernest W. Roberts; Dr. Andrew D. White; Dr. A. Graham Bell;
Judge George Gray; Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.; and the secretary,
Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

The chancellor explained that this was the annual meeting
adjourned from December 11, 1913.

DEATH OF REGENT.

The secretary announced the death, on December 22, 1918, of the
Hon. Irvin 8. Pepper, Member of the House of Representatives,
who was originally appointed Regent in December, 1911, and
reappointed December 10, 1913, for the ensuing two years.

Mr. Ferris submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned

of the death, on December 22, 1918, of the Hon. Irvin S. Pepper, Member of
the House of Representatives and a Regent of the Institution since December,

1911: Therefore be it

Resolved, That the board desire here to record their sorrow at the loss of a
colleague whose untimely death terminates a career filled with promise and
whose interest in the affairs of the Institution made him a most valuable member
of the board.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The secretary announced the appointment by the Speaker of the
following Members of the House of Representatives:
The Hon. Scott Ferris, reappointed.
The Hon. Maurice Connolly, to succeed Mr. Pepper, deceased.
The Hon. Ernest W. Roberts, to succeed Mr. John Dalzell, whose
term of office had expired.
122
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 123
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE VACANCY.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the vacancy in the membership of the executive committee be
filled by the election of the Hon. Maurice Connolly.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Senator Bacon, chairman of the executive committee, offered the
following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1915, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended

by the secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items,

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Senator Bacon, chairman, submitted the report of the executive
committee for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913.
On motion, the report was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTHE.

Hodgkins fund—This fund has undergone no changes since the
last report. The following allotments have been made from its
revenues during the year:

To Mr. C. G. Abbot and Dr. Angstrém for conducting experi-
ments in nocturnal radiation.

‘By formal action of the board, certain allotments were authorized
for immediate use in inaugurating the work of the proposed Langley
Aerodynamical Laboratory.

The board will recall that in connection with the International
Congress on Tuberculosis, held in the National Museum in 1908, the
Institution offered a Hodgkins prize of $1,500 for the best treatise
on “The Relation of Atmospheric Air to Tuberculosis.” Nearly a
hundred papers were submitted, and after a most exhaustive exam-
ination of the essays by all the members of the advisory committee,
which for various reasons encountered many delays, the award has
been made, and the prize divided equally between Dr. Guy Hinsdale,
of Hot Springs, Va., for his paper on “ ‘Tuberculosis in Relation to
Atmospheric Air,” and Dr. S. Adolphus Knopf, of New York City,
whose essay is entitled “On the Relation of Atmospheric Air to
Tuberculosis.”

Avery bequest——Two of the parcels of land included in this be-
quest have been sold for a total of $9,692.42, which sum has been
deposited to the credit of the permanent fund of the Institution in
the United States Treasury.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

Poore bequest—The matters in relation to the settlement of the
Poore estate, which have had the supervision of Mr. Choate, have
progressed satisfactorily.

A report on the financial condition of the estate to November 15,
1913, has been submitted by the executor, Mr. John J. Pickman, who
says that claims against the estate are being adjusted as rapidly as
circumstances will permit. Your committee asks that the board
refer the matter of final settlement to it with power to act. Mr.
Pickman reports that the whole estate may ultimately amount to
from $35,000 to $40,000.

Under the terms of the bequest, this is to be allowed to increase to
$250,000, the income of which will then become available for the
purposes of the Institution.

Research Corporation.—During the past year the corporation has
established the Cottrell process in a number of plants in order to
demonstrate its commercial practicability, and new plants are being
installed as rapidly as the engineering force can do the work.

Other patents have been offered to the corporation and are under
consideration. One of these is for a concrete tie, which is now being
thoroughly tested on one of the railways in southwestern California.

Addison T. Reid bequest—In 1903 the board was informed of a
proposed bequest to the Institution from Mr. Addison T. Reid, of
Brooklyn, N. Y., to found a chair of biology in memory of the
testator’s grandfather, Asher Tunis. The bequest was subject to
the condition that the income was to be paid in three equal shares
to certain enumerated legatees until their death, when the prtn-
cipal of the estate, with accumulations, was to come to the Institu-
tion. At that time the estate was estimated to be worth $10,000.

Recently the Institution has been informed of the death of one of
the beneficiaries, and the trust created for her benefit, amounting to
$4,795.91, has been paid to the Institution and deposited to the
credit of the permanent fund in the United States Treasury.

Will of Morris Loeb.—At the meeting of February 13, 1913, the
board’s attention was called to an item in the will of Morris Loeb,
of New York City, in which the Institution is made a residual legatee
and is to receive a one-tenth share of the estate remaining upon the
death of the testator’s wife. This legacy is to be used for the fur-
therance of knowledge in the exact sciences.

The Lucy Hunter Baird bequest—Miss Baird, daughter of
Spencer Fullerton Baird, late secretary of the Institution, died
June 19, 1913, making provision for the Institution and National
Museum in the following items of her will:

Fourth. * * * To the National Museum in the City of Washington,
D. C., all articles deposited by my father, Spencer F. Baird, my mother,

Mary H. C. Baird, or myself, in its keeping or that of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution with the exception of the specific bequests to the Smithsonian Institu-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. ¥25

tion contained in this will. If there be any china of which I have made no
other disposition, of any value to the Museum, I desire that it shall be placed
therein.

To the Smithsonian Institution the copies of my father’s own books containing
his notes in his own handwriting, also the books by Audubon or any other works
on natural history, annotated in my father’s writing, to be kept forever in a case
together.

To the National Museum or to the Smithsonian Institution as my executor
shall deem best any pictures or books not otherwise disposed of, which they
may desire.

* co * * * ae

Sixth. Upon the release of any portion of the said trust estate by the death
of the person entitled to the income therefrom, unless otherwise provided in
paragraph fifth, I give, devise, and bequeath the same to the Smithsonian
Institution in trust as a fund to be known as “The Spencer Fullerton Baird
fund,” the interest from which shall be devoted under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution to the expenses in whole or in part of a scientific
exploration and biological research or for the purchase of specimens of natural
objects or archaeological specimens.

The Chamberlain bequest—The late Rev. Dr. Leander T. Cham-
berlain, of New York City, married in 1890 Frances Lea, the
daughter of Dr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, publisher and eminent
naturalist, who had made an extensive collection of fresh-water
mussels and exhaustive researches into their life history. Dr. Lea
died in 1886, bequeathing this collection to the National Museum.
To his daughter he left a large collection of gems and precious stones.
She died in 1894, bequeathing this collection to the National Mu-
seum. Mrs. Chamberlain took a deep interest in “the Isaac Lea
collections” in the Museum, adding to them by direct gifts of speci-
mens and by money for their purchase. Upon her death Dr. Cham-
berlain assumed her trust in the Lea collections, and in consequence
of his gifts and collaboration he was appointed “ associate in min-
eralogy” in the Museum. Upon his death (May 9, 1913) it was
learned that his will contained the following provisions in regard
to the Isaac Lea collections:

Seventh. I give and bequeath to the Smithsonian Institution, in the city of
Washington and District of Columbia, the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000), in trust, the same to constitute a permanent fund, which shall be
known as the “‘ Frances Lea Chamberlain fund,” the income of said fund to be
usec, under the direction of the secretary of the Board of Regents of said Insti-
tution, for promoting the increase, and the scientific value and usefulness, of
the collection of gems and gem material known as the “Isaac Lea collection ”
in the department of minerals in the United States National Museum, the said
collection having been chiefly collected and given by me in honor of Dr. Isaac
Lea and his only daughter, Frances Lea Chamberlain.

Highth. I give and bequeath to the Smithsonian Institution, in the city of
Washington and District of Columbia, the further sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000), the same to constitute a permanent fund, which shall be known as
the “ Frances Lea Chamberlain fund,’ the income of said fund to be used,
under the direction of the secretary of the Board of Regents of said Institution,
for promoting the scientific value and usefulness of the collection of mollusks
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

known as the “Isaac Lea collection,’ in the department of mollusks in said
Smithsonian Institution.

The Riter Fitzgerald bequest—The will of Mr. Fitzgerald, of
Philadelphia, who died in 1911, dated May 19, 1910, and first
brought to the attention of the Institution in March, 1913, contains
an item in which the National Museum is concerned, as follows:

I give, devise, and bequeath to my executors, hereinafter named, and the sur-
vivor of them, or their successors in the trust, all the rest, residue, and remainder
of my estate, real, personal, and mixed, and wheresoever situate, including all of
my portion, share, and interest in the estate of my late father, Thomas VWitz-
gerald, deceased, both real, personal, and mixed, in trust nevertheless, to invest
the same and collect the rents, interest, and income as it accrues, and pay over
the net income thereof quarterly to my niece, Geraldine Maud Hubbard, daugh-
ter of my sister, Maud Hubbard, for and during the term of her natural life,
her receipt alone to be a Sufficient release and discharge therefor, and so that the
same shall not be liable for the debts or engagements of any husband which
my niece may have. And upon the decease of my said niece, the principal and
accrued interest is to be equally divided betwen her then surviving child or
children in equal shares. In the event of the decease of my said niece without
leaving a child or children surviving her, then I direct that the principal of my
estate, and the interest accrued thereon, shall be given by my executors and
trustees, and the survivor of them, or their successors in trust, to the United
States National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

This part of the estate is appraised at between $12,000 and $13,000.

The Joseph White Sprague bequest—The committee desires to re-
fresh the memory of the Regents as to the terms of this bequest.
Tt will be recalled that in 1901 the board’s attention was drawn to
the proposed bequest of Mr. Sprague, whose residence was Louisville,
Ky. His will provides that 85 per cent of the total income of the
estate is to be distributed among certain devisees until their death
and then to several of their relatives for 20 years after the death of
the last devisee, when the trust expires by limitation and is to be
paid to the Smithsonian Institution and to be known as “ the Sprague
fund.” Its purpose is to best promote the advancement of the
physical sciences, and only one-half of each annual income is to be
used, the other half to be added to the principal of the estate. In
1901 it was estimated that the estate was worth $200,000. ‘The terms
imposed by the will indicate that the acquisition of the fund by the
Institution will be at a remote date.

Respectfully submitted.
A. O. Bacon.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.
JOHN DALZzELL.

Cuarites D. Watcortt.
On motion, the report was adopted.

_ On motion of Senator Bacon, the secretary was requested to pub-
lish in his annual report a synopsis of the permanent committee’s
report.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 1O7
JOHN B. HENDERSON MEMORIAL,

The committee appointed to prepare for the records of the board
a suitable minute relating to the late Regent, John Brooks Hender-
son, submitted its report as follows:

GENTLEMEN: Your committee appointed at the meeting of May 1,
1913, for the purpose of preparing a suitable minute of the life and
work of the late Hon. John B. Henderson, a former Regent of the
Institution, begs to submit the following:

John Brooks Henderson, doctor of laws, a member of the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution from January 26, 1892,
to March 1, 1911, was born near Danville, Va., on November 16, 1826,
and died at Takoma Park, D. C., April 12, 1913.

For 19 years, until failing health compelled him to retire from
active duties, he had a deep official and personal interest in the
activities of the Institution, serving during that entire period as a
member of the executive committee, for 15 years its chairman, and
for 17 years as a member of the permanent committee. His sound
judgment and wise counsel as a jurist were of great assistance to his
associates in their deliberations on important and perplexing prob-
lems of policy and administration.

At an early age he moved from Virginia to Missouri, where he
received an academic education and supported himself as a teacher
while studying law. He was admitted to the bar in 1848 and in
1882 was honored with the degree of LL. D. by the University of
Missouri. From 1848 to 1856 he served in the State legislature; was
presidential elector in 1856 and 1860; United States Senator from
January 29, 1862, to March 3, 1869; commissioner to treat with hos-
tile Indians in 1867; United States district attorney in 1875; and
chairman of the Chicago convention in 1884. In 1861 he organized
a brigade of Missouri State Militia and was appointed brigadier
general. ;

On January 11, 1864, after conferences with President Lincoln and
without the knowledge of any other person, Mr. Henderson presented
in the Senate the joint resolution abolishing slavery which after-
wards became the thirteenth amendment to the Federal Constitution.

In 1890 he moved from Missouri to Washington City, and resided
there until his death, leading a life of retirement, although taking
great interest in public matters and philanthropic work and in the
affairs of several scientific and patriotic organizations of which he
was a member.

Mr. Henderson was a lawyer, a statesman, a soldier, a financier,
and in all these callings he was successful. The secret of his suc-
cess was an alert mind, a natural executive ability, strong will,
courage, and an independence that fixed his course though he walked
alone.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

During his long life Mr. Henderson enjoyed an intimate friend-
ship with many men eminent in the social, political, and business
life of the Nation, all of whom held him in the highest esteem.

He was one of the men who make history, and in his death a highly
honorable career was brought to a close.

Respectfully,
Gro. Gray,
H.C. Loner,
Cuarues D. Watcort.
On motion, the report was accepted.

SECRETARY’S ANNUAL REPORT.

The secretary presented his report on the operations of the Insti-
tution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913.

In regard to publications, he said:

“The publications issued by the Institution and its branches since
the last annual meeting of the board aggregate about 6,500 printed
pages covering the usual wide range of topics, and there have been
distributed about 190,000 copies of pamphlets and bound volumes.

“The Institution proper published 40 papers in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections; the annual report for 1912, and pamphlet
copies of 388 papers from the general appendix of that volume.
The Bureau of American Ethnology issued an annual report and
three bulletins, and the National Museum publications included 96
papers from the Proceedings, an annual report, and a number of
articles relating to the National Herbarium. The results of observa-
tions and experiments by the Astrophysical Observatory for 1907
to 1913 are recorded in Volume III of its Annals.

“One of the bulletins of the Museum prepared by Assistant Sec-
retary Rathbun gives an interesting descriptive illustrated account
of the new building erected more especially for the natural history
departments. A paper in the Miscellaneous Collections gives the
results of experiments to determine the influence of the atmosphere
on our health and comfort in confined and crowded places, from
which it appears that the essentials for good ventilation are mainly
to keep the air in motion, comfortably cooled, and containing the
proper degree of moisture, its actual chemical purity being of minor
importance.

“ Among important works in preparation I may mention a com-
plete list of publications of the Institution and its branches since its
establishment, the list including about 12,000 titles of articles and
volumes.”

On motion, the report was accepted.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 129

THE SECRETARY’S STATEMENT.

The secretary made personal statements as follows:

Langley Day exercises.—The exercises arranged for Langley Day,
May 6, 1913, were conducted as outlined, and a printed account of the
occasion, which included the presentation of two Langley medals and
the dedication of the Langley memorial tablet, has been sent to each
regent.

Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.—In accordance with the reso-
lutions adopted at the meeting of the board on May 1, 1913, authoriz-
ing the reopening of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory and the
enlargement of the same, I addressed a letter on May 8, 1913, to Pres-
ident Wilson, asking his approval of the cooperation with this Insti-
tution of the Departments of War, Navy, Agriculture, and Com-
merce, to which the President replied as follows:

THE WHITE HOovussE,
Washington, May 9, 1913.
My Drar Dr. WaAtcorr: Allow me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
May 8 and to say that I shall take pleasure in sending copies of your letter to
the Secretaries of War, Navy, Agriculture, and Commerce, expressing my full
approval of the designation of representatives of those departments upon the
committee which you are forming for the study of the subject of aeronautics
under the authorization of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
on May 1, 1913.
Cordially and sincerely, yours,
; Wooprow WILSON.
Dr. CHARLES WALCOTT,

Smithsonian Institution.

Representatives were thereupon designated by the heads of the four
departments mentioned, and on May 23, 1913, the first meeting of the
advisory committee of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory was
held at the Institution. The present membership of the committee is
as follows: |

Brig. Gen. George P. Scriven and Maj. Hdgar Russel, War Department.

Capt. W. I. Chambers and Naval Constructor H. ©. Richardson, Navy Depart-
ment.

Dr. W. J. Humphreys, Department of Agriculture (Weather Bureau).

Dr. 8. W. Stratton, Department of Commerce (Bureau of Standards).

Mr. Orville Wright.

Mr. Glenn H. Curtiss.

Mr. John Hays Hammond, jr.

Col. Samuel Reber.

Dr. Albert F. Zahm.

Mr. Charles D. Walcott, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, chairman.

_ Included in the organization of the advisory committee was the
formation of 16 subcommittees, covering practically every phase of
aeronautic work. With their membership recruited from the lead-
ing experts all over the country, these subcommittees enable the
Langley Laboratory to command the most authoritative advice and
assistance obtainable.

78176°—sm 1914——9
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

As a preliminary step in starting the work of the laboratory, Dr.
A. F. Zahm, the recorder of the advisory committee, was sent to
visit the principal aerodynamical laboratories near London, Paris,
and Gottingen, in company with Assistant Naval Constructor Jerome
C. Hunsaker, United States Navy.

Dr. Zahm’s trip proved most satisfactory, and his report will con-
tain valuable data for the committee.

Three meetings of the advisory committee have been held, and its
work has progressed to such an extent as to render necessary the
transmission to Congress of an estimate for an appropriation of
$50,000, which received the President’s approval. There is also need
for a tract of land and water near Washington suitable for tests with
experimental air craft, and, as chairman of the advisory committee,
I requested the President’s approval of the use for this purpose of the
portion of Potomac Park east of the railroad embankment, which
the committee believes to be the best site for the purpose. It ap-
pears, however, that in the opinion of the War Department, author-
ity for such use of the park rests alone with Congress.

Freer gallery of art—The secretary exhibited elevation and floor
plans of a proposed building for the art gallery to be erected by
Mr. Charles L. Freer for the collections donated by him to the In-
stitution, stating that a trust fund of $1,000,000 had been set aside
by Mr. Freer for its construction.

In answer to inquiries the secretary said that the collections were
now thought to represent an expenditure, exclusive of the building,
of about $1,750,000.

Building for art objects—tWarge numbers of art objects are being
received by the Institution almost weekly for the National Gallery
of Art. Urgent necessity exists for a proper place for their care
and exhibit, as the space now devoted to their use in the new build-
ing of the National Museum is more and more needed for the natural
history collections. The present art objects represent a value of
about $1,000,000, and I wish to urge upon the members of the
board the importance of a very early consideration of the question
of requesting Congress to provide for the erection of a building
adequate for the national art collections.

Expeditions—The various expeditions under the auspices of the
Institution, concerning which reports have been made to the board
from time to time have, with few exceptions, been completed.

Borneo expedition—This expedition is still in the field... Dr. W.
L. Abbott, a collaborator of the National Museum, provided $8,000
for its expenses, and under his general direction the collecting is
being carried on by Mr. H. C. Raven. Two shipments have been
received by the Institution, that include 557 mammals and 560 birds,
with skins and skeletons of crocodiles and giant lizards. Mr. Raven
expects to remain in Borneo for another year.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 131

British Columbia expedition.—The Secretary briefly reviewed his
field work and studies in Cambrian geology during the summer of
1913.

Solar radiation expedition—Mr. C. G. Abbot, Director of the
Astrophysical Observatory of the Institution, spent several months
in California during the summer and fall of 1913, in continuation of
studies on the variation of the solar constant. The special work
of the year was in connection with the variability of the brightness
of different parts of the sun. A tower telescope was constructed on
Mount Whitney (14,500 feet) and numerous observations made,
which it is hoped will furnish an independent check on the varia-
tions to which the sun now appears to be subject. As a further test
of the results obtained and to overcome any objections that might
be made in scientific circles as to their soundness, Mr. Abbot devised
a special self-recording pyrheliometer which may be attached to a
sounding balloon and sent up entirely free from any connection with
the earth to the greatest height to which balloons may penetrate the
atmosphere. Five such instruments were constructed at the Astro-
physical Observatory in 1913, and, with the cooperation of the
United States Weather Bureau, they were sent up by observers of
that bureau from Catalina Island, Cal., about the end of July. All
were recovered, and although the apparatus had been untried up to
that time, three of the instruments gave valuable records, taken at
altitudes as great as 50,000 feet. These observations have not yet
been definitely reduced, but the preliminary results indicate that
just such values were found as will confirm in a very satisfactory
manner the conclusions already reached. Some of the balloons as-
cended over 100,000 feet (19 miles), but owing to the intense cold
no records were made, the mercury in the Smithsonian pyrheliome-
ters having frozen. The lowest temperature recorded by the instru-
ments of the Weather Bureau was 76° F. below zero, which is far
lower than the freezing point of mercury. It is expected to renew
the experiments next spring, when measures will be taken to prevent
the freezing of the mercury, and it is hoped then to obtain tempera-
ture records at altitudes of 100,000 feet or more.

Biological work in North China.—At the annual meeting on De-
cember 12, 1912, the board was informed that Mr. A. de C. Sowerby
was making collections in North China for the National Museum,
through the liberality of a gentleman who desired that his identity
be not disclosed. The same condition prevails now.

Mr. Sowerby has recently notified the Institution of the shipment,
principally from Manchuria, of 121 specimens, including squirrels,
hog deer, moles, voles (a species of mouse), rats, chipmunks, shrews,
hedgehogs, weasels, and badgers, many of which are thought to
be new species. He will continue his expedition in North and West
Shansi and in the Hei-lung-chang region of Manchuria.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Extension of National Zoological Park.—The sundry civil act for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, approved June 23, 1913, con-
tains an item of $107,200 for the purchase of the land lying between
the present western boundary of the Zoological Park and Connecticut
Avenue, between Cathedral Avenue and Klingle Road. This ex-
tension will give the park a frontage of about 1,750 feet on Con-
necticut Avenue and a considerable area of quite level land much
needed for paddocks for bison, deer, and other ruminant animals.

The proposed purchase embraces over 10 acres, and will bring
the total area of the park to about 180 acres.

Work under the Harriman trust fund—Under the special trust
fund of $12,000 per annum established by Mrs. E. H. Harriman
for his investigations in natural history and ethnology, Dr. C. Hart
Merriam is conducting research work in Washington, D. C., and in
California. His principal work during the year has been on the
Big Bears of America, a group he has been studying for upward
of 20 years, and concerning which he now has a monograph nearly
ready for publication. In furtherance of this study, specimens have
been generously placed at his disposal, not only by numerous sports-
men and hunters but also by all of the larger museums of America,
including the Government museums of Canada at Ottawa and
Victoria.

Award of Loubat Prize to Dr. John R. Swanton—tIn 1893 the
Duc de Loubat founded two prizes to be awarded every five years
for—

“The best work printed and published in the English language
on the history, geography, archeology, ethnology, philology, or nu-
mismatics of North America. ‘The competition for such prizes shall
be open to all persons.”

Dr. John R. Swanton, one of the ethnologists of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, has recently been awarded one of these prizes,
which carries with it a money consideration of $400, for his two
works published by the bureau entitled “ Tlingit Myths and Texts”
and “Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent
Coasts of the Gulf of Mexico.”

Exhibits—After informal remarks, in which Vice President Mar-
shall urged an appropriation for preserving the language of the
Miami Indians from extinction and Dr. Bell spoke of Mr. Abbot’s
work in connection with the reduction of the solar constant, the sec-
retary called the board’s attention to some special exhibits of an-
thropological, mineral, and biological material in the adjoining
rooms, which also included the pyrheliometer used by Mr. Abbot.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1914.

133
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIX to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and_ biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the institution; and this purpose has, durmg the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and dis-
cussion. This method has been continued in the present report for
1914.

135
hi = S

is yen

Fit chu toil dint ote Aoisutiient
| rithviderentt To Arie “eanitont saline Pio
a: ion € 40 wiomén ba Thornditadh ads To den

Tah ‘nonin bal suley ay peeda to ous Wed! wigod lainacga: itd Tor
Bee es ert modistivart odd Yo et eharo en
ee wis ve to binedl, wid to dnajdo mating W naw a ee ¥
| ase ails 7 ene tub schade 30% se iti abate

a ceased foes Cotta) Hi almomngplorll: Gane
p91). Btiontiaige orl! hat cfeumide rene:

go co apc al Ae a el alee
ee. sae elena dapibemmen apt iaiies |
as ue dnewade sonst Xs tte Nata ae

ae conn pated olen: cena fad ccyolomel

3 f nth att “ asen iacaeeve ad HM oe nh

to quem pple i
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN.!

By ©. G. ABBort, D. Se.,

Director Astrophysical Observatory, Smithsonian Institution.

[With 4 plates. |

It is really extraordmary how much has been found out about
the sun, when it is considered that the sun lies at the immense dis-
tance of 93,000,000 miles. There are various methods of ascer-
taining the distance of the sun, resting upon extremely diverse
foundations, so that the close accord of their results to within about
one-tenth of 1 per cent gives us great confidence in the accuracy of
the mean value. The angular diameter of the sun is also known to
a great accuracy, and from this and the distance one determines at
once that the diameter of the sun is 865,000 miles. How great this
is as compared with the diameter of the earth—7,918 miles! From
a consideration of the motions of the earth and the moon it is found
that the mass of the sun is 332,800 times the mass of the earth. In
accordance with this, the gravitation on the sun is enormous com-
pared with that upon the earth, so that a body which weighs 100
pounds at the earth’s surface would be pulled toward the center of
the sun from the sun’s surface with a force of nearly 14 tons.

In accordance with the measurements of the diameter and the
mass of the sun, it follows that the average density of the material
composing the sun is very much less than that composing the earth.
In fact, it comes out that the sun’s material has only 1.41 times the
density of water, whereas the mean density of the material composing
the earth is 5.5 times the density of water. Notwithstanding this
remarkable fact, it has been shown by spectroscopic work that the
heavy metallic elements, such as iron, nickel, zinc, tin, copper, and
others, occur in the sun as well as in the earth. The explanation for
the discrepancy of density between the two bodies lies probably in
the very high temperature of the sun, so that the elements found
there are in the form of gases, whereas upon the earth they are in the
form of solids. We shall return to this fact later.

1 Presented at the meeting of the Section of Physics and Chemistry held Thursday, Jan. 8, 1914. Re-
printed by permission from the Journal of The Franklin Institute, June, 1914.

Fig. 1 on pl. 1 is from The Astrophysical Journal, by permission of The University of Chicago Press.
Text fig. 1; fig. 2, pl. 1; and pls. 2 and 3 are from Abbot’s The Sun, by permission of D. Appleton & Co.

Qn
vi
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

As viewed through the telescope, the sun at first sight is a very
disappointing object as compared with the moon. Nevertheless,
there is much of interest to be seen there. In the illustration (pl. 1,
fig. 1) we see a direct photograph of the sun as obtained te
pibea of the Yerkes Observatory, on May 18, 1910. Several
interesting features may be pointed out. In the Abs place, note
the falling off of the brightness of the disk toward the edges of the
sun. In he second place, one sees in the original photograph all
over the sun’s surface a sort of mottled appearance, not very dis-
tinct, but yet interesting. In the third place, in this particular pho-
(een appear some dark spots, called sun spots. Sun spots were
discovered by Galileo in the year 1610, soon after the invention of

(a a rl a i Th)

-d5
TERPS OL LA OT

RIEL aa RA A
Waihi dadetaltted Wk dal goles Tole eae
PEEP EE REECE EE EERE EEE
aye AA] Sp OPTRPLUNTNG Varese ea WGP [ak Es
Es WE a a
A OS eB a a
(ee oe see. eae occ ae
NT

002 LA

22 a EF as Vn PP fC Fe en SSS =

OO18
: i il OS a cs ic Va Gas

mS EC CCEA LESSEE OCCT Sa

& 1880 2 1890 2

SuN-sPoTs AND TERRESTRIAL TEMPERATURES AND MAGNETISM.
I. Temperature departures, United States inland stations.
II. Sun-spot relative numbers (Wolf's).
III. Magnetic declination { mean diurnal renge}}
IV. Magnetic horizontal force { Ellis, Chree.

Fig. 1.

the telescope.'| They are distinguished by dark central parts, called
the umbra, surrounded by a ene of less darkness, called the pen-
umbra. The spots shown in the illustration are very large ones,
although they seem very small upon the surface of the sun. This is
because of the immense diameter of the sun itself. The earth might
be dropped into one of these sun spots without much more than filling
the umbra, leaving a generous space for the penumbra outside of it.
It was fang by Schwabe, about the middle of the nineteenth
century, that sun spots occur most plentifully in periods of about 11
years between maxima. This may be seen by the diagram (fig. 1),
in which the second curve represents the prevalence of sun spots
according to the so-called sun-spot numbers published by Wolter.
The two donee curves represent, ‘Tespectively, variations in a the earth’s

1Sun aod had beeasionalty been seen with the naked eye earlier, put it was not until 1610 ‘that they
were definitely regarded as a solar phenomenon.
Smithsonian Report, 1914.—Abbot PLATE 1

Fig. 1.—DIRECT SOLAR PHOTOGRAPH (SLOCUM).

Fia. 2.—SOLAR CoRONA, MAY 28, 1900.

(From drawing by P. R. Calvert from photographs by Yerkes Observatory Eclipse
Expedition.)
Grireoniani Report mld -Abbot PLATE 2.

Fic. 1.—HYDROGEN SPECTROHELIOGRAM, Ha (ELLERMAN).

1909, September 10, G. M. T.; 35 22m P, S. T.; 7h 22m A. M.

Fia. 2.—SOLAR CoRONA. AUGUST 30, 1905.

(From drawing by Mrs. C. G. Abbot from photographs by the United States Nayal Observatory
Eclipse Expedition.)
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 139

magnetic declination and in the earth’s magnetic force for the corre-
sponding years. It will be seen how exactly the sun-spot curve is
reproduced in these fluctuations of the earth’s magnetism, but the
cause of the connection which is so apparent is not yet well under-
stood. In the upper curve of the figure are represented the depart-
ures of temperature for the average of 17 stations in the United
States, and there will be seen, although not so plainly marked, an
apparent influence of the sun spots on the temperature of the earth.

Recent work, much of it at the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory,
has given us a good insight into the nature of sun spots. They
appear to be whirls of material coming outward from the inner layers
of the sun toward the surface, spreading out there like a waterspout.
The expansion attending decrease of pressure on the gases causes a
fall of their temperature, so that the sun spots are cooler than the
surrounding parts of the sun, and this is the reason why they seem
dark. The whirling matter contains electrical charges, which, by
virtue of their rotation, give rise to magnetic fields, as shown long
ago by Rowland. The presence of magnetic fields in sun spots has
recently been established by Hale.

At certain times the moon interposes between the earth and the
sun and cuts off the sunlight, so that we are able to see the objects
which are surrounding the sun and usually lost by the intense glare
of the sky. Such occasions are called ‘‘total solar eclipses.” As
the moon is but little, if at all, greater in angular diameter than the
sun, the cone of shadow cast by the moon only a little more than
reaches the surface of the earth, and sometimes, indeed, fails to reach
it at all. When the cone reaches the earth’s surface, and we have a
total eclipse, there will be a belt, not more than 200 miles wide, but
sometimes several thousand miles long, upon the earth’s surface, in
which the total eclipse may be observed at some time of the day.
Frequently the belt of totality passes over inaccessible regions of the
earth, as, for instance, the North or South Pole, or falls upon parts
of the ocean where it is impossible to use delicate instruments. The
longest possible period of totality at any one station is seven minutes,
and in general the total eclipses average about three minutes in length
Thus only a very little time can be used in eclipse observations, and
yet the information to be gained at such times is so valuable that
observers often spend months in preparation and travel thousands
of miles to observe them.

Figure 2 of plates 1 and 2 show the total eclipse of the sun. The
first is from a drawing of Calvert prepared from photographs by
Yerkes Observatory observers at Wadesborough, N. C., in the year
1900, and the second is from a drawing by Mrs. Abbot from plates
of the eclipse as photographed by the United States Naval Observa-
tory parties in Spain and Africa in the year 1905. In each photo-
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

graph will be seen the corona, so called, a pearly object stretching
out in beautiful forms to a considerable distance outside the sun. A
ereat change, however, apparently occurred in its form between the
year 1900 and the year 1905. This change is shown by other eclipse
observations to be characteristic, and to always accompany the
change from sun-spot minimum conditions to sun-spot maximum
conditions. At sun-spot minima the solar corona extends in long
equatorial streamers, while at sun-spot maximum the corona, though
somewhat brighter, is not so extensive in any particular direction,
but stretches almost equally in all directions.

Close up to the border of the sun there are also seen, at times of
solar eclipses, bright red flames, called prominences, which are due
to the gases hydrogen and calcium, with sometimes an admixture
of other chemical elements. These beautiful objects sometimes reach
above the surface of the sun as much as 500,000 miles, and ih some
instances they have been observed to shoot up to such immense
heights as this within 10 minutes of time. I say within 10 minutes
of time, which implies that they may be seen at other times than
during total eclipses. A method of observing them by aid of the
spectroscope was devised indeperfdently by Lockyer and Janssen
immediately after the eclipse of 1868, and nowadays many observa-
tories examine them every day. <A beautiful prominence is shown
in plate 3 as photographed by Slocum at the Yerkes Observatory.

It would have seemed hardly credible to the contemporaries of
Sir William, or even of Sir John Herschel, that the materials of which
the sun and stars are composed could ever be known, but by aid of
the spectroscope much is learned in this respect. White light may
be thought of as a compiex mixture of vibrations of the ether, so
called; that medium which is supposed to fill all space, including the
interstices between the atoms and molecules of material bodies.
When light passes through a prism of transparent substance, the com-
plex vibrations are decomposed into their component parts, and we
see the spectrum, in which the colors are arranged in the order,
violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red. The spectrum is by
no means limited by the end of the visible red, or by the end of the
visible violet, for rays which may be photographed, and which pro-
duce heat when allowed to shine upon blackened substances, exist
both beyond the red and beyond the violet. Those beyond the red
are called infra-red, and those beyond the violet, ultra-violet. The
ultra-violet rays may be readily photographed, and by specially
staining photographic plates, with organic dyestuffs, it is possible
also to photograph a limited region beyond the visible red. Further
progress in that direction, however, must be made by delicate elec-
trical thermometers or other heat-measuring instruments.
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 141

When the chemical element sodium or any of its compounds, like
common salt, for instance, is placed in the flame, and the light which
is-given out is examined in the spectroscope, it is seen to consist
of a couple of bright yellow lines. No general extension of the spec-
trum to include the green or violet is seen. On the other hand, if one
observes the spectrum of the limelight or the electric are from carbon
poles, it is seen to give a long band of color much like the solar spec-
trum, except that, whereas in the solar spectrum a great number of
dark lines are seen under good conditions, in the spectra of the arc
light or of the limelight these lines will generally be absent. I,
however, the vapor of metallic sodium be caused to intervene between
the source of light and the slit of the spectroscope, two dark lines
will be seen in the yellow, corresponding in position to the two bright
yellow lines which are found by observing the light from heated
sodium, or heated common salt. In short, the yellow light is ab-
sorbed by the sodium vapor at the very positions in the spectrum
where that vapor would itself give off light if strongly heated. The
same is true of iron and other metals. The spectrum of iron is very
complicated, consisting of a great number of lines, many of them
in the green. If the arc light be caused to play between iron poles,
these bright green lines will be the main features of the light as ob-
served in the spectroscope. Some of these lines are very strong,
others quite weak, so that there is often a well-marked distinction
between one line and another, not only as regards its place but also
as regards its intensity in the spectrum.

Now, it is found on observing the spectrum of the sunlight or star-
light that the dark lines are found in the same relative positions,
and generally of nearly the same relative intensity, as in the bright
line spectrum of the chemical elements themselves. In this way it
is possible to determine what elements are found in the sun and the
stars, although these bodies are so immensely distant from us. In
this way we know that more than 40 of the ordinary chemical ele-
ments found upon, the earth exist also in the sun, and the existence
of about 20 more is doubtfully indicated by the solar spectrum. Not
only does the approximate correspondence in position and intensity
of the spectrum lines of the sun and of the chemical elements as ob-
served in the Jaboratory yield this significant result, but the slight
deviations from exact correspondence in intensity and in position of
the spectrum lines yield other facts not less remarkable. For instance,
it was predicted by Doppler and observed in the laboratory by Prince
Galitzen that the motion of a source of light toward the observer
displaces its spectral lines toward the violet, and, contrariwise, the
motion of the source of ight away from the observer displaces the
spectral lines toward the red. This effect is very noticeable in the
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

solar spectrum if one takes the light from the east and west limbs
of the sun. There is a displacement of the lines of the two spectra
with respect to one another, depending upon the fact that the one
side of the sun is approaching the earth and the other side receding,
by virtue of the rotation of the sun on its own axis.

It had long been known that the sun rotated upon its axis, be-
cause of the behavior of sun spots, which march across the disk of
the sun in a period of about 14 days.1| Duner, Halm, Adams, and
others have observed the rotation of the sun by means of the dis-
placement of the spectral lines. The curious fact that the surface
of the sun rotates with unequal velocities, largest at the equator
and smaller as we approach the poles of the sun in either direction,
had been noted from sun spot observations. This peculiar rotation
behavior of the sun’s surface was investigated much more thoroughly
by Adams, who followed the rotation of the sun up to solar latitude
of 75°. He found that the period of rotation, as determined by the
majority of the spectrum lines, varied from 24.6 days at the equator
to 33.1 days at latitude 75°. However, the element hydrogen, which
is situated high up in the solar atmosphere, indicated a much more
nearly equal velocity of rotation at differing latitudes. The values
range from 23.7 days at the equator to about 26 days at latitude 75°.

Another cause of the displacements of the spectral lines is in the
pressure which exists in the solar envelope. This was investigated
first by Humphreys and Mohler at Baltimore. It has since fur-
nished a valuable means of measuring the pressure which ‘exists in
the solar envelope. For the element iron it is found to be about
five times the atmospheric pressure at the surface of the earth?

Still another interesting displacement of spectral lines was found
by Zeeman to be due to the presence of a magnetic field. Spec-
trum lines are broken up in the presence of a magnetic field into
doubles or triples or still more complex groups, whose complexity
of arrangement depends upon the situation of the spectroscope with
respect to the magnetic field, and on the strength of the magnetic
field in which the light is produced. This peculiarity was taken
advantage of by Hale, who has recently proved the existence of a
magnetic field in sun spots, and still more recently the existence
of a general magnetic field over the whole surface of the sun, analo-
gous in many respects to the magnetic field which exists over the
surface of the earth. .

A brilliant invention of Hale’s earlier years of investigation was
that of the spectroheliograph. This is an instrument for observing
the sun’s disk in the light of a single line of a single chemical element.

1 This exceeds the half-period of the sun’s rotation because of the advance of the earth in its orbit at the
same time.

2 Recent work of Evershed and of St. John indicates that this estimate must be revised, and that pres-
sures of one atmosphere or less exist where the iron lines are formed.
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 1438

It is not necessary here to explain the details of the construction or
the principle of it, more than to say that it is a particular form of
spectroscope whose effect is to act as a screen to cut off all rays of
the spectrum except the particular one which it is desired to observe.
By the aid of this instrument the distribution of the gases of different
elements over the sun’s disk has been investigated, notably of the
gases hydrogen and calcium. Plate 2, figure 1, shows a photograph
of a portion of the sun’s disk as observed in hydrogen. The reader
will note the very prominent detail which is shown by this illustration
as compared with that shown by direct photography of the sun’s
surface by a telescope as given in plate 1, figure 1. It was by the aid
of the spectroheliograph that Slocum obtained the beautiful figure of
the solar prominence given in plate 3.

SOLAR ENERGY.

We now turn from this general consideration of what may be
seen on the sun by the aid of the telescope and spectroscope to a
discussion of the quantity of energy which the sun sends out, the
distribution of it among the different spectrum rays, and the rela-
tions which it bears to the temperature of the sun, the temperature
of the earth, and other terrestrial concerns. I said a little while ago
that light is regarded as of the nature of a mixture of vibrations in
the ether, which is supposed to be a substance existing in all space,
including the interstices of the structure of the chemical elements
themselves. Light is but one of the manifestations of radiation.
It is merely that kind of radiation which is visible to the eye. Just
as there are some sounds which are of too high pitch for the ear to
hear, and some other sounds which are of too low pitch to distinguish
as sound, so there are kinds of radiation which are of too short wave
length for the eye to recognize as violet light, and others are of too
long wave length for the eye to recognize as red light. Indeed for
the longer wave lengths of radiation the substances of the eye are
not transparent, so that even if the retina should be sensitive to these
rays, they could not reach the retina to affect it.

In this state of affairs it is necessary to proceed to the investiga-
tion of the energy of radiation by means of another instrument in
which the radiation is caused to be absorbed by a blackened surface,
and thus to produce heat, and consequently a change of temperature
of the absorbing substance. Radiation is not heat. Heat is a
motion of the molecules of the material substance, but radiation is a
motion of vibration in the ether, which is not regarded in the same
category with ordinary chemical elements. Indeed, we may go a
little further and make a classification of energy. Imagine a chest of
drawers in which, as sometimes happens, the letters or other papers
fall over the back of the drawers, as they are pulled out into the
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

ones below. It is easy in that manner for the papers in the upper
drawers to fall into the lower drawers, but work has to be done in
order to get the papers from the lower drawers into the upper ones
again. So with energy—all forms of energy may easily be trans-
formed into heat, which is the lowest type of energy, but heat energy
can only partially be transformed back again ito the higher types.
Of these types radiation is one of the very highest.

Now it is on the sun’s radiation that a temperature suitable
for life upon the earth depends. Not only that, but the peculiar
properties of certain wave lengths of the solar radiations are re-
quired for supporting plant growth, with its complex chemical
reactions. All sources of energy upon the earth have been directly
or indirectly produced by solar radiation. A good many investiga-
tors, among them Mr. Shuman, of Philadelphia, have endeavored
to use the solar radiation commercially for the production of power,
and, in fact, very satisfactory results are being obtained in this
way, under Mr. Shuman’s direction, from a plant in Egypt.

Evidently it is of the greatest interest to measure the quantity
of the solar radiation, the distribution of it in the spectrum, the
hindrances which it suffers in passing through the earth’s atmos-
phere, and the quantity of it available to warm the earth after it
reaches the surface. This has been the principal work of the
Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution for the last
12 years.

In the first place, we have to deal with the measurement of
the solar radiation as a whole. For this purpose we employ what
is called the pyrheliometer, a name first devised by Pouillet, about
the year 1835. He employed a blackened box, filled with water,
and containing a thermometer for observing the rise of tempera-
ture in the water due to the absorption of the solar rays upon
the blackened box. In our.practice we have considerably devel-
oped the instrument of Pouillet, until now it comprises a silver
disk inclosed in a chamber provided with a vestibule for the ad-
mission of the solar rays. The disk has inserted in it a thermometer,
which is bent at right angles for convenience, and on which the
rise of temperature of the silver disk due to the absorption of solar
radiation is observed. The instrument is shown in figure 2.

It is not possible to obtain the correct heat capacity of the pyr- -
heliometer in this form, so that we have reduced its measurements
by comparison with what is termed the standard pyrheliometer, in
which the heat produced by the sun’s radiation is carried off by
flowing water. The rise of temperature in the water, due to the
absorption of the solar radiation, is determined by means of an elec-
trical thermometer. In this apparatus it is possible to introduce
electrically known quantities of heat, and to measure them as if it
Smithsonian Report, 1914.—Abbot. PLATE 3.

1910, March 17, G. M. T.; 55 80™; long. 7°; lat. + 17° to — 18°.

1910, October 10, G. M. T; 7) 56.8™.

1910, October 10, G. M. T.; 85 6.4™,

SOLAR PROMINENCES (SLOCUM). CALCIUM (H) SPECTROHELIOGRAMS.
Smithsonian Report, 1914.—Abbot. PLaTe 4.

Fic. 1.—SMITHSONIAN OBSERVATORY ON MOUNT WILSON.

Fic. 2.—SMITHSONIAN OBSERVATORY ON MOUNT WHITNEY.
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 145

were solar radiation which was being measured. In such test ex-
periments it is found that as much as 99 per cent of the heat in-
troduced is recovered, and it is believed that the standard pyrhe-
liometer gives the true scale of radiation for the sun within a prob-
able error of a half of 1 per cent. The silver disk pyrheliometers
have been compared with this standard, and in this way the standard
scale of radiation has been diffused by the Smithsonian Institution,
which has sent out about 25 copies of the standardized silver disk
pyrheliometer to various countries
of the world, in Europe and North
and South America.

Measurements with the pyrheli-
ometer indicate that the maximum
intensity of the sun’s radiation at
sea level is about 1.5 calories per
square centimeter per minute. At
high-level stations, such as Mount
Whitney, in southern California, at
an altitude of 14,500 feet, the read-
ings run as high as 1.7 calories per
square centimeter per minute. You
may ask why it is that if the inten-
sity of the sun’s radiation increases
as we go up a mountain, it should
be also the case that the tempera-
ture of the air at high elevations is
- lower than it is at sea level. This
is due to the property of the air of
almost freely transmitting solar
radiation. Like a pane of glass in =
a window, it is not much warmed
by absorbing the rays, whereas a
blackened substance held in the
beam of light, either upon a mountain or inside the window pane,
will be very appreciably warmed.

If we could go outside the atmosphere altogether, all the radia-
tion which we receive from the whole sky, and which is derived
by scattering, would be still in the direct sun-beam. Looking
away from the sun we should see the stars shining, as if at night,
and the sun’s rays themselves as observed by the pyrheliometer
would exceed in intensity even those observed on high mountain sum-
mits. Now the question is, what would be the intensity of the
solar radiation if we could observe it outside the atmosphere, at
the earth’s mean solar distance? This quantity is called the solar

73176°—sM 1914——10

a
A) i

Fig. 2.—Silver disk pyrheliometer.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

constant of radiation, and it has been an object of investigation
for the last hundred years.

As shown by Forbes, Radau, and notably by Langley, it is not
possible by means of the pyrheliometer alone to estimate what the
intensity of the solar radiation outside the atmosphere would be,
unless the pyrheliometer itself could be raised by a bailoon or other-
wise to the extreme limit of the atmosphere. This latter procedure
having heretofore been impracticable,’ it was necessary to have
recourse to measurements of the solar spectrum. The defect in
pyrheliometer observations consists in this: That the several rays of
the solar spectrum are unequally affected in passing through the
earth’s atmosphere. Certain rays are almost completely removed
in the higher levels of the atmosphere, so that we can by no means
estimate the lossés, even upon the highest mountains, unless recourse:
is had to determinations in the spectrum.

About the year 1880 the late Dr. Langley invented the bolometer.
This is an electrical thermometer of great sensitiveness. It com-
prises two fine strips of platinum, each about one-half inch long,
one two-hundred-and-fiftieth of an inch wide, and one two-thou-
sandth of an inch thick. The strips are blackened on the front surface
with smoke, or with platinum-black electrically deposited. These
two strips, with two coils of resistance wire, form a Wheatstone’s
bridge, so called. If one strip is warmed with respect to the other,
and thereby its electrical resistance is increased, the effect is to cause
a slight current of electricity to flow through a very sensitive galva-
nometer. In ordinary practice one can detect with the bolometer
differences of temperature of a millionth of a degree; and in the most
refined construction, with every precaution taken to avoid disturbing
influences, it has been possible to observe the hundred-millionth part
of a degree change of temperature.

With the bolometer, which in those days was an instrument of
very uncertain behavior, and one requiring the most expert atten-
“tion and great patience for its use, Langley observed the sun’s spec-
trum in the famous expedition of 1881 to Mount Whitney, in southern
California. Like early investigators who had used the pyrheliometer
alone, he observed the increase of the intensity of the sun’s rays
from early morning to noon, and their decrease of intensity from noon
until late afternoon. This depends, as you will see, upon the fact
that when the sun is low and near the horizon its rays shine obliquely
through the atmosphere, so that their path in the air is very long,
whereas at noon, when the sun is nearly overhead, the path in the
air is comparatively much shorter. If one observes, ther®fore, the
intensity of each of the spectrum rays at different altitudes of the sun,

1 The author has recently devised apparatus which has recorded solar radiation successfully at enormous
altitudes, The results confirm those given below.
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 147
’

for which he knows the length of path in air, he may compute from
the observed increase of intensity, attending the decrease of air path,
how much the intensity would be if the path in air could be reduced
to nothing at all, or, in other words, if he could go outside the air
altogether. It is not possible to do this by observation with the
pyrheliometer alone, as explained above, because the rays of certain
spectrum wave lengths are almost entirely removed in the upper
atmosphere, and do not reach the observer at all, even if he be on a
high mountain. Especially is this the case in the infra-red region of
the spectrum, which is invisible to the eye, but which is of great
importance as containing a large part of the sun’s energy. In this
region there are great water-vapor bands, where the water vapor of
the atmosphere almost completely absorbs the solar rays, leaving
ereat gaps in the representation of the sun’s energy spectrum. Lang-
ley introduced the procedure of estimating for all other parts of the
spectrum the intensity which would be found outside the atmosphere,

le Scale 30 ae a ie ee

Fic. 3.—Bolographs of the Solar Spectrum. Air masses of observation: Upper curve, 3.0; middle curve,
4.0; lower curve, 5.2.

but in the great water-vapor and other terrestrial bands of absorption
he merely made the assumption that these would be altogether absent
if he could in fact be beyond the atmosphere altogether.

After Langley became Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
he established the Astrophysical Observatory there, in order that he
might carry out to greater perfection the measurements of radiation
begun by him while still director of the Allegheny Observatory in
Pennsylvania. Among the first improvements introduced in Wash-
ington was the automatic recording of the results of the bolometer by
photographic means. This was a great step, so that now we are able,
in the lapse of less than 10 minutes, to observe the intensity of the
rays of the sun of all wave lengths, from those far beyond the violet
end of the visible spectrum to those far beyond its extreme red.
Figure 3 shows the result of three such observations made on Mount
Wilson, in California, at the station of the Smithsonian Institttion
there. These three curves represent the distribution of solar radia-
tion in its spectrum, including the ultra-violet, visible, and infra-red
rays. ‘The great water-vapor bands above mentioned are shown
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

in the infra-red as great depressions of the curve. Solar absorption
lines are shown in the visible spectrum as smaller depressions of the
curves. The three curves were taken at different hours of the morn-
ing, when the path of the solar rays in air was five, four, and three
times, respectively, that which would occur if the sun were vertically
overhead. The reader will notice that the curves are respectively
higher and higher, especially in the violet end of the spectrum, owing
to the decrease of the length of path of the sun rays in the air. At
several points a change of scale of the curves is shown. ‘This is due
to the introduction in the beam of rotating sectors of different angular
apertures in order to keep the record always within the limits of the
registering photographic plate. If these changes of scale had not
been made, the curve would run up in the edge of the red to the
height of several feet.

By suitable computation, by the aid of the exponential formula
developed by Bouguer about the year 1760, it is possible to compute
for each of the parts of this spectrum energy curve the intensity
which would be found if one were outside the air altogether. In
this way one might construct a curve similar to the three shown in the
Ulustration, which would represent the intensity of radiation beyond
the limits of the atmosphere. In such curves as these the area
included between the curve and the axis of zero radiation is propor-
tional to the intensity of the whole solar beam, including all wave
lengths. This, of course, is also measurable by the pyrheliometer.
Accordingly we multiply the reading of the pyrheliometer by the
ratio between the area of the curve outside the atmosphere and that
which is found at the observing station, and thereby we obtain the
solar constant of radiation. In this process, however, we follow
Langley’s assumption that there will be no absorption by water vapor
or oxygen in the sun itself, and therefore draw a smooth line in our
extra-atmospheric energy curve, where great atmospheric bands occur.

About 700 determinations of the solar constant of radiation have
been made by the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian
Institution, some at Washington, at sea level; others at Mount Wilson,
at an elevation of about 1 mile above sea level; others at Mount
Whitney, at an elevation of nearly 3 miles; and others at Bassour,
Algeria, at an elevation of three-quarters of a mile. No differences
beyond the reasonable errors of measurement are found between
observations made at two stations on the same day, whether made at
sea level or at any of these stations, up to the elevation of Mount
Whitney, 14,500 feet above sea level. Hence it appears that the
method of estimating atmospheric transmission is probably sound.
The mean value of the solar constant of radiation, as thus found from
700 determinations, is 1.933 calories per square centimeter per
minute. By this is meant that if the sun’s rays outside the atmos-
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 149

phere could be absorbed completely in a layer of water 1 centimeter
(about three-eighths of an inch) thick, exposed at right angles to the
solar beam, this layer of water would be warmed 1.93° C. during each
minute of time. Expressed in another way, the sun’s radiation
outside the atmosphere would be able to melt a layer of ice 105 feet
thick each year. .

An extremely interesting feature of the measurements has been
that they show a variation of the sun. This conclusion has been
tested in every way, not only by making measurements at different
altitudes but by comparing results obtained on the same days at
Mount Wilson, in California, and at Bassour, Algeria. As these sta-
tions are separated by about one-third the circumference of the earth,
it seems not possible that they could be generally influenced by local
conditions in a way to disturb the measurements in the same direction
at the same time. Nevertheless, the results of about 50 days of simul-
taneous observing at the two stations agree in showing that when
the radiation of the sun is found above the normal at the one station
it is found also above the normal at the other station, and vice versa.
The fluctuations of the intensity of the sun’s radiation outside the
atmosphere thus indicated range over about 10 per cent. Often
within a single week or 10 days a fluctuation of radiation as great as
5 per cent is shown. The variation of the sun in these short periods
appears to be irregular, both as regards the magnitude of the varia-
tion and as regards the period of it.

The measurements made at Mount Wilson, which extend over
the years 1905 to 1913, indicate also a fluctuation of the intensity
of solar radiation, attending the changes of the number of sun spots.
There appears to be about 3 per cent increase of the solar radiation
outside the atmosphere for an increase of 100 in the Wolf sun-spot
numbers. It is a very curious thing that the solar radiation increases
with increasing numbers of sun spots, whereas the temperature,
which directly depends upon the solar radiation, falls with increasing
numbers of sunspots. It appears that there is attending sun spots a
direct and an indirect influence on terrestrial temperature. The direct
influence is due to the increased solar radiation. The indirect influ-
ence is perhaps due to a change in cloudiness, but as yet is not certainly
understood. These two influences are of almost equal magnitude in
general, but with the indirect influence, which tends to lower tempera-
tures, slightly predominating. It will be a research of great interest
and value to determine the cause of the indirect influence.!

In connection with these researches on the solar radiation the
transparency of the air for light of all colors and for invisible rays
has been determined. This is a matter of great interest to those

1The author is informed that researches by the meteorological service of India indicate that not all
stations of the world are cooler at sun-spot maximum.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

who are studying the growth of plants, as well as to those who are
interested in the propagation of signals by means of lights at sea and
elsewhere.

Also, the form of the energy spectrum of the sun having been
determined, it is possible to estimate the probable temperature
which exists in the sun. For it is shown that as the temperature of
asource of light increases, the position of the wave length of maxi-
mum intensity in its spectrum shifts toward the violet end of the
spectrum, and from the exact position in the spectrum of the wave
length of maximum intensity the temperature of a source of light may
be ascertained. In this way it appears that the sun’s temperature
is of the order of 6,000° C., or nearly twice the temperature of the
are light. It is also possible, by means of the measurement of the
solar constant of radiation, to determine the sun’s temperature. In
this way also values of the order of 6,000° C. are found.

The surface of the sun is not equally bright from one edge to the
other. This is shown plainly on solar photographs, as was pointed

InFRA-RED INFRA-RED Sieg =o Sea B
ED LUE-GREEN
az 155m 4 =.986 ie Ga

ULTRA-VIOLET
Ae.37 le
ria. 4.—Brightness distribution along sun’s diameter for different colors.

out in relation to plate 1, but a more careful study of the matter
is being made by the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian
Institution, at its station on Mount Wilson, by the aid of the bolom-
eter. Plate 4, figure 1, shows the observing station of the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the reader will see a tower which has been
erected upon it, in which is a vertical telescope for forming a large
image of the sun. By stopping the clockwork, this image is allowed
to drift across the sht of the spectro-bolometer. Thereby an auto-
matic record is produced of the distribution of radiation of any
selected wave length from one edge of the sun along the diameter to
the opposite edge. Such observations are shown in figure 4. The
distribution of radiation is given for five different wave lengths.

It is seen that there is a marked contrast of brightness, especially
for violet rays. Here the edge of the sun’s disk is hardly half as
bright as the center. The contrast of brightness diminishes with the
increasing wave length of the light examined, and for the infra-red
rays is comparatively small. Experiments are being made on every
day on which the solar constant of radiation is determined, in order
to see if there is a change of contrast in brightness along the diameter
THE RADIATION OF THE SUN—ABBOT. 151

of the sun, accompanying the change of the intensity of the sun’s
radiation. Changes of contrast along the sun’s diameter have already
been found, but it is not yet decided whether they agree in point of
time with the changes in the intensity of the solar radiation.1

NATURE OF THE SUN.

In view of what has been said, what is the nature of the sun? It
appears, in consideration of its high temperature and low density,
to be a great ball of incandescent gases. Of course, the pressure is
so enormous that the gases approach the density of liquids. These
gases are so hot as to exceed in temperature anything that we have
upon the earth’s surface. It must not be supposed, however, that
they are burning gases like the burning of illuminating gas in air.
The temperature on the sun’s surface is so high that in general no
compounds of elements are occurring there. If the ordinary com-
pounds, for instance, products of combustion like carbonic-acid gas,
should be present on the sun, the elements of which they are com-
posed would separate, one from another, owing to the enormous tem-
perature. As the sun gives off radiation, it tends to cool, and it may
well be asked why, in the course of the millions of years which geolo-
gists tell us have elapsed since the earth reached.substantially its
present temperature, the sun should not have cooled off entirely. A
partial source for this immense quantity of energy was suggested by
Kant and discussed at length by Helmholtz, who showed that the
enormous gravitation of the sun, tending to condense the gases and
bring them toward its center, must, for every decrease of tempera-
ture and consequent shrinking up of the volume of the sun, produce
a certain quantity of energy. This source of the sun’s energy, how-
ever, seems insufficient to account for that which geologists demand
us to concede. It may be that the secret of the matter is in the
breaking up of the atoms, such as is now found to occur with the
element radium.

If the sun is gaseous, the question naturally arises why it presents
so sharp and round a boundary. The roundness of the sun is only
~ what would be expected in view of its gravitation. The sharpness
of its boundary seems explainable as follows: Gases, although very
transparent, are not perfectly so, so that in the case of the earth the
atmosphere above Mount Wilson transmits only about 95 per cent
of the yellow light. If, then, 5 per cent of the sun’s radiation in the
yellow is cut off by the earth’s atmosphere, it follows that a layer of
the sun’s gases only a few thousand miles thick would be sufficient
to prevent us from seeing any deeper. This 3,000 or 4,000 miles of
thickness, as we look at the center of the sun, will extend vertically

1 Experiments of 45 days in 1913 indicated that there is such agreement in point of time. Thus the sun’s
variability from day to day is again independently confirmed.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

downward, but at the edge of the sun we look obliquely, and there
the 3,000 or 4,000 miles will all be found in a layer of the sun perhaps
not more than 100 miles in thickness. In a body 800,000 miles in
diameter a thickness of 100 miles is practically negligible, certainly
so for any telescopic observations which can be made from the earth,
hence, naturally, the boundary of the sun is seen to be sharp.

The contrast of brightness between the center and the edge of the
sun follows at once from what has just been said. For at the center
we look far deeper than at the edge, and, naturally, see thereby gases
which are much hotter than those which are perceived in the com-
paratively superficial layer which is seen at the sun’s edge. Attending
the increase of temperature there must be an increase of brightness,
and this will be greater for red and infra-red rays than for violet and
ultra-violet rays, in accordance with laboratory experiments on the
relations of radiation and temperature. Thus the contrast of bright-
ness between the center and the edge of the sun will be greater in the
red and infra-red than in the violet and ultra-violet.

The sun spots appear to be whirlpools where the gases of the interior
are pouring out toward the exterior in forms similar to a waterspout.
They are cooled by expansion as they reach the surface, and the par-
tial vacuum formed in the center of the whirl sucks in the superincum-
bent and very light gases, hydrogen and calcium, above the sun’s
surface. The magnetic field found by Hale in sun spots is due, no
doubt, to the rotation of the electrically charged material in the spots.
The solar spectrum, with its numerous dark lines, is due to the pres-
ence of the gases of the chemical elements which are found upon the
earth. These gases are cooler at the boundary of the sun than they
are within, where the principal part of the light comes from, hence,
as noted above, the effect will be to produce dark lines on a bright
background. The irregular mottled appearance of the sun’s surface
is probably due to differences of temperature which exist in so great
a body, and thereby produce variations in brightness of different
parts.

It is impossible to go further and touch upon the very interesting
questions connected with the sun’s place among the stars, the de-
pendence of plant growth upon solar radiation, and the relations
between the temperature of the earth and the radiation of the sun.
These matters, and many details, which it has been impossible to
mention in this short account, are discussed by the writer in a book
entitled ‘‘The Sun,” to which and to the original sources of informa-
tion and to longer treatises the interested reader is invited to turn.
MODERN THEORIES OF THE SUN.!

By Jean Boster,

Astronomer at the Meudon Observatory.

[With 2 plates.]

It is the sun alone among all the stars that we can ever hope to
see in detail. It alone can aid us in understanding all the others
and throw light on their evolution. Furthermore, whatever our ideas
may once have been, they had no solid experimental basis until the
invention of the spectroscope toward the middle of the last century.

This remarkable discovery taught us that there was something
further to observe in the sun than the spots, the facule, and the
prominences visible at the eclipses; the appearance of these phe-
nomena to the eye has therefore lost something of the exclusive
interest it formerly usurped. The Janssen-Lockyer method of
utilizing the monochromatic hydrogen light from the prominences
had already enabled us to see them at any time on the limb of the
solar disk. The spectro-heliograph, based upon a bold and ingenious
generalization of analogous principles, now reveals to us in the
flocculi (pl. 2, fig. 1), the filaments and alignments (pl. 2, fig. 2),
new phenomena formerly invisible which, perhaps, equal or even
surpass in importance the spots and facule. It is on these new
appearances that the interest of the present-day astronomer is
especially centered.

Our knowledge of the constitution of the sun is naturally increased
by all this progress. The fact that the solar spectrum is made up of
black lines upon a bright continuous background shows, according
to Kirchhoff’s law, the existence of a very hot source of light sur-
rounded by a cooler absorbing layer of gas. The latter produces in
the spectrum the lines of a great number of terrestrial substances—
iron, hydrogen, calcium, magnesium, sodium, etc. Its inner portion,
situated close to the brilliant photosphere, has been called the revers-
ing layer. It contains the heavier elements, while the outer layer or
chromosphere contains principally hydrogen and calcium. Farther

1 Summary of two lectures delivered Apr. 11, 1913, and Jan. 9, 1914, at the observatory of the Société
Astronomique de France. Translated by permission from L’ Astronomie, 28th year, February, 1914, Paris.

153
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

out yet, extending a distance of several solar radii, is found the
corona which we have not yet succeeded in observing except at total
eclipses of the sun (pl. 1).

PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE SUN.

Formerly the continuous background of the solar spectrum was
attributed to an incandescent solid or liquid nucleus. The prevalent
theory at present is that the sun is entirely gaseous. For this belief
there are several good reasons: Apart from the mean low density of
this star (1.4 relative to water), its temperature is, as we shall see,
higher than that at which all known bedies volatilize. Further, a
sphere not gaseous but solid or liquid would near its edge emit
polarized light, of which we observe not a trace. Finally, the way
in which the sun rotates is in complete contradiction to a rotating
rigid solid body. The objection based upon the continuous back-
ground of the spectrum alone remains. This was overcome when it
was found that gases can give such a spectrum. The bright lines in
the spectrum of a gas are narrow and separate when the gas is under
a weak pressure, but they broaden as soon as the pressure is increased,
and, finally, a continuous background appears which may indeed
become very bright.

We find, therefore, that in order to account for the observed facts
it is sufficient to assume that the heavy vapors gather at the center,
where they are under great pressure, while, according to their densi-
ties, the lighter gases in successive layers make up the outer portions.
This explanation, however, has not satisfied all, and physicists ask
whether the great diffusive tendencies in a gas would not finally tend
to transform the whole mass into a perfectly homogeneous mixture.
Further, the form of the sun, so perfectly round and, moreover, so
sharp, requires an explanation which the laws of refraction for a
moment seemed to give and about which we will say a word.

We know that in our own atmosphere the path of a beam of light
is curved by refraction, especially when the beam is near the horizon.
(Fig. 1.) Now we may conceive (theory of Schmidt) that the law of
densities in the sun’s atmosphere is such that, when the beam of light
is sufficiently inclined to the vertical, the path is so curved that it
never leaves the sun. (Fig. 2.) On such a star, in the upper very
rare layers, everything would appear as on the earth; in the lower
layers, however, only those rays near the vertical would succeed in
escaping. These two regions would evidently be separated by
another where the luminous trajectories would encircle the star
many times before emerging. (Fig. 3.) It is this very thin layer
which, according to Schmidt, constitutes the photosphere. Further,
the dark lines of the spectrum may be explained by the optical
Smithsonian Report, 1914.—Bosler.

PLATE 1.

Fic. 1.—SOLAR CORONA: ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900 (PERIOD OF MINIMUM ACTIVITY

Drawn by M. W.-H. Wesley, from photographs by M. Maunder.

NIP
)> y
SIP ; ae
i

/

ie

Fic. 2.—LINE OF FORCE OF A SPHERE UNIFORMLY MAGNETIZED.
Smithsonian Report, 1914.—Bosler. PLATE 2.

P. N.

P.S.
FIG. 1.-—FLOCCULI OF CALCIUM, JULY 1, 1906.

P. N.

P. S.
Fi@. 2.—FILAMENTS AND ALIGNMENTS OF HYDROGEN, APRIL 11, 1910.

Photographs of the sun, taken with spectroheliograph.
MODERN THEORIES OF THE SUN—BOSLER. 155

phenomenon of anomalous dispersion,’ which accounts also for the
winged appearance of their edges (Julius). This same theory offers
also an explanation of the divers aspects of the chromosphere, the
flocculi, the prominences, as well as, though less satisfactorily, the
spots.

All that is very ingenious. Unfortunately this explanation of the
photosphere assumes that there is no absorption of light in the sun.
Further, the lines of the spectrum produced by anomalous dispersion
should be unsymmetrical, and theyare not. Although somephysicists
remain faithful to these new theories resting on anomalous dispersion,
fascinated by their elegance, astronomers who actually see the sun

_ Observer,
A
\
\
\
Central |
Regions
Fie. 1. Fia. 2. Fig. 3.

and observe the effects due to perspective can not believe in such a
great optical delusion. They therefore generally cling to those ideas
which were held in the first place and which have become classical.

SOLAR HEAT.

Our ideas as to the temperature of the sun remained for a long
while in an unsatisfactory state until science made the decisive step
which was to insure a good solution. We can not tell the temperature
of a body at a distance except by means of some hypothesis as to
the emissive power of its surface. But we may agree to call the
effective temperature of a distant body that of a “black body”
having by definition a maximum emissive and absorbing power at
all temperatures and which, if situated at the same place, would send
us the same amount of heat.

The theoretical and experimental study of ‘black bodies” has
shown that their radiation is proportional to the fourth power of
their absolute temperature (Stefan’s law). This leads us to measure
the amount of heat per unit time and unit surface which the sun
sends us—that is, the ‘‘ solar constant.’’ It is about 2 small calories

1 Wecan not here enter much into details, for which we must refer thereader to special treatiseson thesun.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

per square centimeter per mimute and corresponds to an effective
temperature of a little less than 6,000 degrees absolute (Centigrade).
Another method based upon the wave-length of the most intense
radiation in the solar spectrum (Wien’s law), always assuming an
emission from a black body, leads to a like result.

This is very far, as you see, from the millons of degrees formerly
supposed. It does not mean, however, that the heat sent out from
the sun is not enormous. We may well ask by what means this
immense loss of energy is compensated. It is indeed impossible that
the sun should burn like an immense block of coal. The most intense
combustion revealed to us by the chemist, for example, that of gun
cotton, would not suffice to feed this radiation for more than a few
thousands of years. We must look elsewhere: <A rain of asteroids
has been suggested, which by its kinetic energy would restore the
lost heat to the sun. Such an hypothesis is not possible. The mass
of the sun would increase indefinitely and the planets should show
an unobserved acceleration. The sun, however, as Helmholtz sup-
posed, could contract little by little, changing mto heat the internal
energy of the primitive nebula of Laplace. A contraction of 30
meters per year would suffice to explain all. Unfortunately, a very
suggestive calculation shows that all the heat that the sun could
thus develop since its origin, by any mechanical process whatever,
would not sustain the radiation for more than 15 million years.
And the world is very much older than that, at least so the geologists
affirm. Their arguments, taken separately, do not seem without
value; but what is more remarkable, they all tend, by different
paths, to lead us to admit a past very much longer than 100 million
years, figuring perhaps into thousand millions. We must apparently
search in the interior of the atoms themselves for the source of
the solar heat. The infinitely small, as Pascal said, will explain the
infinitely great.

The intraatomic energy is indeed enormous and the sun, as well as
many of the stars, shows in abundance one of the most characteristic
elements of radioactive transtormations—helium. 'The mechanism of
the radiation, it is true, remains unknown. But the necessity of such
an explanation will perhaps not be so imperious in the near future.
The problem tends to assume a new aspect of the highest philo-
sophical import. The physicists of the new school are disposed to
admit and appear to have proved a fundamental identity ' between
the mass of a body and its internal energy. If matter is no more
than energy, we may foresee what a beautiful simplicity physics may
sometime assume. On this basis the sun would possess a total energy
(easy to calculate since we know its mass) of 2 X 10° ergs, assuring

e 1 Of course on the condition of the suitable choice of units.
MODERN THEORIES OF THE SUN—BOSLER. 157

to it a duration in the future of several hundred billion centuries with
the present loss of energy by radiation. It would then without doubt
die of good old age unless destroyed by direct collision with some
other star.t. But let us not trouble ourselves about this and come
back to our subject.

INTERIOR EQUILIBRIUM OF THE SUN.

A mass of gas subject only to the mutual gravitation of its parts,
such as is the sun, tends to assume a spherical shape. The resultant
of the attracting forces at each point is then directed toward the
center. However, there are two particular ways in which this equi-
librium may become established. In an immobile fluid the temper-
ature can be equalized only through conductivity, and if that is
high, the temperature will everywhere be finally the same. This is an
isothermal equilibrium. If, on the other hand, the fluid mass is subject
to convection currents and the conductivity is negligible, the temper-
ature will differ at different places and depend upon the local pressure.?
This is an adiabatic equilibrium.

Now, the sun is gaseous and gases are generally very poor con-
‘ductors for heat. Moreover, the loss of heat by radiation is relatively
very small. Further, the sun seems subject to incessant movements
of which the spots and facyle are evidence. Therefore, it must be
in adiabatic equilibrium. Postulating this, we may study mathe-
matically the distribution of pressures and temperatures in the
interior of a star formed thus of a perfect gas when we know its total
mass, its mean density and peripheral pressure (supposed to be zero).
With these data known, the problem admits of solution and the
pressures and temperatures will be found to increase very rapidly
toward the center. For instance, for a sun composed of hydrogen,
assumed monatomic at high temperatures, the density at the center
will be about 8, the pressure 8 billion atmospheres, and the temper-
ature 24 million degrees. Similar calculations give for other gases
results of the same order of magnitude. This is all we may hope to
obtain.

One point to be noted is that all this assumes an apparent contour
to the sun, which takes away from Schmidt’s theory one of its most
_ seducing advantages. But there is something better: The sun radi-
ates toward us and yet the quotient of the heat lost by the lowering
of the temperature may in certain cases be negative; that is, the
more heat the sun sends to us the warmer it may get. This is called
the ‘paradox of Lane” and it is a good one. However, we have
here a complex effect very analogous to the accelerating action of a

1 Such as was considered by .M. P. Salet in his article in the Revue du Mois (1911), ‘‘Le soleil doit-il
s’éteindre?’”’ (Will the sun become extinguished ?).
2 A gas compressed in a receiver impermeable to heat becomes heated, when expanded, cooled.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

resisting medium upon the velocity of a planet or comet,’ an effect
often cited in the case of Encke’s comet.

The theory of Lane takes no account of the rotation of the sun

which is 25 times slower than that

NP of the earth. M.Emden, taking his

suggestion from Helmholtz, has filled

Spot this gap and shown that, the given

conditions remaining the same, the

gaseous mass would separate into

discontinuous layers slipping con-

tinuously upon each other and. hay-

ing the form of hyperboloids of one

sheet.? (Fig. 4.) In the middle lati-

tudes the slipping would be the

greatest. This slipping produces

through friction deep-seated eddies

which could be the initial causes of

sun spots and give a remarkable ex-

planation of the zones in which they appear. Indeed, this seems to
be the best explanation of the whole phenomenon.

SIP

Fie. 4.

ELECTRIC AND MAGNETIC PHENOMENA.

We haveso far treated only of the mechanical and optical phenomena
of thesun. But we have every reason to suppose that the sun exhibits
electric phenomena. All hot bodies do. Metals in particular (but
not they alone) at high temperatures emit negatively charged particles
(electrons) in great abundance. Richardson and Harker, at tem-
peratures of about 1,500° obtained currents of 1 ampere per square
centimeter of heated surface. The law connecting the current with
the temperature is exponential. The emission from the sun must
therefore be considerable. Further, the spectrum of the chromosphere
includes a great number of lines which can be reproduced in the
laboratory only by electrical processes. Finally, the sun spots have
an undoubted although indirect influence upon terrestrial magnetism
which is shown by the general concordance between the magnetic
variations and the’ frequency of sun spots.2 We are thus almost
inevitably led to conclude that the sun is magnetized, an hypothesis
incompatible with its high temperature, or, and this is mfinitely more
probable, that it is the seat of huge convection currents of charged
matter.

1It would seem at first sight as if a resistance ought to diminish the velocity. And so it would in an
indeformable orbit as a consequence of the decrease of total energy. However, here the orbit is not invari-
able and the interdependence of the elements alters the case in every way.

2 The aspect of the corona especially toward the poles sometimes resembles these.

2? We know that the latter vary periodically each eleven years.
MODERN THEORIES OF THE SUN——BOSLER. 159

It seems extremely probable therefore that the solar matter is
electrified. The radiation pressure which, as Maxwell demonstrated
and experiment confirmed, is exercised upon any body struck by
light, helps in the expulsion of the charged particles. The wings and
filaments of the corona are doubtless due to this force which also
explains the tails of comets. They are probably real cathode rays
which the least magnetic field will deviate (M. Deslandres) and which
volute around the lines of force. The corona thus gives us an image
of the general magnetic field of the sun analogous to the terrestrial
magnetic field (a sphere uniformly magnetized) and also similar
to that of a rotating sphere electrically charged (pl. 1, figs. 1, 2).
Along another line of reasoning, the interpretation of the prominences
has shared in these new notions. It has been thought strange that
a gas should have ve-
locities of upwards of
a hundred kilometers a ; !
second. But in an ion- ;
ized gas only an infini- i notosphep,
tesimal number of the ;
molecules participate in ,
sending out the light :
(Perot). These few may {
alone have the enor-
mous velocities within
a gas itself almost immobile, just as is the case of the canal rays of
a Crookes’ tube.

A brilliant discovery in America in 1908 throws further light on all
these theories. Hale, by means of the Zeeman phenomenon, has
shown, within the nuclei of sun spots, magnetic fields of 3,000 or 4,000
Gausses, roughly normal to the surface and explaining perfectly
the enlargements and doublings of the corresponding lines in the
spectrum. Indeed, these magnetic fields seem to be vortices of
electrified matter: the ionization would have to be no more intense
than that observed in the laboratory either in vacuum tubes or in the
neighborhood of hot bodies.

Connected with this same line of thought is the study of the radial
velocities in the various chromospheric layers. This has permitted
Deslandres, Evershed, and St. John to investigate the phenomena
occurring in sun spots. Above the penumbra, the absorbing vapors
spread out from the center of the spot parallel to the surface; arriving
at the peripheral facula, they rise, come back higher toward the center
(fig. 5) and are finally engulfed within the cavity (nucleus) of the spot
where other researches have shown relatively low temperatures.
As in the case of eddies in rivers, the cause of this suction may be
looked for in the subjacent whirlpools, the very ones which probably

; Penumbra Nucleus )Fenumbra 1

I
I
'
|
!
!
I

I
|
I
J

I

|

Fia. 5.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

develop the magnetic fields and which the theory of Emden so nicely
predicts.

Very recently these researches have been extended and it is thought
that the evidence shows that there is about the sun a magnetic
field analogous to that about the earth. We have just spoken of this
in connection with the corona, but it should be further manifested both
in the Zeeman phenomena and the helicoidal movements in the prom-
inences. These experiments are not at present fully completed and
their discussion is in progress. We just call your atteation to them.

In the case of the sun, where so to speak, all the resources of modern
physics have been given rendezvous, we find ourselves very far from
the huge ball of fire which our fathers naively believed they saw.
There is no doubt that we have to do with one of the most powerful
creative organs of nature and the more we advance the greater the

-mysteries seem to become. Fortunately this is only apparently so.
As science advances, new questions appear before indeed the older
ones, often badly put, are solved. But the latter often lose their
interest, and as we proceed many untenabie hypotheses which dark-
ened our path are destroyed. And so, little by little, the knowledge
we have of things progresses with a tidal motion which will doubtless
end only with humanity.
THE FORM AND CONSTITUTION OF THE EARTH.
By Louis B. Stewart, D. T.S.

The beginnings of astronomy probably date from the earliest
development of the human intellect; and that it should be the oldest
of the sciences need not be a matter for surprise when we consider
the striking and interesting nature of its phenomena and the numerous
services which it renders to mankind. Among the many questions
requiring answers that would present themselves to a thoughtful
observer possibly one of the first was that of the form and magnitude
of our earth.

To a spectator placed upon an eminence the earth, as far as it
could be seen, appeared as a level plain, after making due allowance
for minor inequalities, so that primitive man regarded the earth as
flat, surrounded by an otherwise shoreless ocean. The sun at setting
plunged beneath this ocean to reappear at the opposite side of the
horizon at rising the following day. To allow for his passage beneath
the earth it was conceived that the latter was supported by pillars
between which the sun passed during his nightly journey. Thus the
Greeks explained the motion of the sun, and they claimed that they
were indebted to the Egyptians for their astronomical knowledge.

The teaching of the Hindoos was even more fanciful than that of
the Greeks. They taught that the earth is in the form of a hemi-
sphere, resting with its flat surface on the backs of four elephants which
in their turn stood upon the back of a gigantic tortoise. The question:
What supports the tortoise ? received the answer: The endless ocean.
The too curious inquirer who wished to know what supports the ocean,
was met with the reply that it extends all the way to the bottom.
As there is no statement that has come down to us concerning the
nature of the bottom or to what it is indebted for its support, we must
infer that the last answer stilled all further inquiry.

Leaving these fanciful theories, we find that in comparatively early
times more correct views as to the form of the earth were held by some
philosophers, based no doubt upon the reports of phenomena observed
by mariners and travelers, who found that the highest promontories
disappeared from view as they drew away from the land; that a ship
gradually vanished below the horizon in a manner that precluded the
idea of a flat earth; that the sea horizon always appears circular.
These and other phenomena, such as the varying meridian altitudes

1 Retiring president’s address, annual meeting, Jan. 13. 1914. Reprinted by permission from the Journal
of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, January-February, 1914.

73176°—smM 1914 11 161

162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914,

of stars as one travels in a north or south direction, must have given
rise to a belief in the curvature of the earth in the minds of early
astronomers. Thales, and after him Aristotle, is said to have taught
the sphericity of the earth, and it is not surprising that we soon find
attempts being made to determine its dimensions.

To Eratosthenes is due the honor of being the first of whom we have
any record to make an estimate of the circumference of the earth
based upon measurement. He was born at Syene, in southern Egypt,
in the year 276 B. C., and, his ability being early recognized by
Ptolemy Euergetes, he was placed by him in charge of the Alexandrine
library. His geodetic measures consisted in noting that at Syene, at
the time of the summer solstice, the sun passed through the zenith
of the place, as was shown by a vertical object casting no shadow;
while at the same time at Alexandria such an object cast a shadow of
such a length as to show that the sun’s rays made an angle with the
vertical equal to one-fiftieth of a whole circumference. He concluded,
then, that as the two places were nearly on the same meridian the dis-
tance between them is one-fiftieth of the whole circumference of the
earth. The distance being estimated at 5,000 stadia, the circumfer-
ence of the earth becomes 250,000 stadia. As we do not know the
precise length of his stadium, we are unable to estimate the accuracy
of this determination. We now know that the longitudes of the two
places differed by 3°; also the amplitude of his are was too small by
15’. Notwithstanding these sources of inaccuracy, however, great
credit is due to him for inaugurating a correct method for determining
the dimensions of the earth.

Cleomedes, to whom we are indebted for the account of Eratos-
thenes’s operations, suggested that if two gnomons be set up at two
places on the same meridian the lengths of their shadows on the
same day would serve to determine the amplitude of the are joining
the places. His suggestion thus contained the germ of the method
used at the present day to measure the length of a meridian arc.

According to the same writer, another determination of the earth’s
circumference was made by Posidonius about a century and a half
later. This observer noticed that at Rhodes the bright star Canopus
just appeared in the horizon when at meridian passage, while at
Alexandria it had an altitude equal to one forty-eighth of a circum-
ference. As the distance between the two places was estimated
to be 5,000 stadia, the whole circumference becomes 240,000 stadia.

From this time interest in the sciences in Egypt and Greece appears
to have languished, and during the Dark Ages the only country in
which astronomical science was cultivated appears to have been
Arabia. In the year 814 an Arabian caliph proposed to his astrono-
mers the problem of measuring an are of the meridian. From a
selected spot on the plain of Singar, near the Arabian Gulf, one party
FORM AND CONSTITUTION OF EARTH—STEWART. 163

was dispatched northward and another southward, each with instruc-
tions to measure as they went and continue their work until the
altitude of the pole was observed to have changed by 1°. The
northern party found 56 miles and the southern party 562 miles
as the length of 1°. The English equivalent of the latter value,
which was accepted as being the most accurate, is about 71 miles.

It was not until the sixteenth century that Europe, having
awakened from the lethargy of the Dark Ages to new intellectual
life, entered upon the era of development of which we have not yet
seen the end. Among the various activities in which this newly
found energy sought an outlet may be noted the exploration of
foreign lands. America had been discovered, and in 1521 Magellan
had completed the circumnavigation of the globe; and it may have
been this latter achievement that turned men’s attention to the
problem of determining the earth’s dimensions.

In 1525 Jean Fernel, court physician to Henry IJ of France, and a
cultivator of. the mathematical sciences, measured the length of a
meridian arc near Paris. His method was so crude as to be but a
slight advance upon those of the ancient astronomers which have
already been considered. He measured the length of his are by
counting the revolutions of a carriage wheel while driving from one
end of it to the other; and his astronomical observations were made
with a triangle used as a quadrant. He found the length of 1° to be
365,088 feet, a result very near the truth.

It is not proposed to give an exhaustive account of all the geodetic
surveys of the last three centuries, but only to notice briefly those
that embodied some improvement in method or were important
in their results.

A great advance upon previous methods was now for the first
time made by Snellius, who employed the method of triangulation
to measure the length of a meridian arc, the method which has been
in use ever since, and is superior to all others on account of its accu-
racy and cheapness, combined with adaptability to any country,
whatever its nature. He measured a base with a chain between
Leyden and Soeterwood, and his chain of triangles, 33 in number,
extended from Alemaar to Bergen-op-Zoom. This distance, pro-
jected upon a meridian, gave a meridian are having an amplitude
of 1° 11’ 05’’, which made the length of 1° to be 55,074 toises, a toise
being equal to 6.3946 English feet. His angles were measured with a
graduated semicircle 34 feet in diameter, and his latitudes observed
with a quadrant 53 feet in diameter, neither of these instruments
being provided with a vernier or telescope sight, as neither had been
invented at that time. It was not to be expected under those cir-
cumstances that his result would be remarkable for precision, in
spite of the precautions which he took to secure it; in fact, his length
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

of a degree is in error by about 2,000 toises. Though his triangles
were solved as plane triangles, neglecting spherical excess, the
labor involved in their solution will be realized when we remember
that at that time logarithms had not been invented.

The first attempt at degree measurement in England was made
by Norwood about 1635. He measured with a chain the distance
from London to York, occasionally, however, resorting to pacing,
and determined his latitudes by observing altitudes of the sun on
the same day, June 11, in the years 1633 and 1635. His adoption
of Fernel’s method instead of following in the path marked out by
Sneliius, is to be regarded as a retrograde step, in spite of the fact
that his value of a degree, 367,176 feet, or 57,420 toises, is so near
the truth. Its accuracy, however, must have been the result of a
compensation of errors.

Another improvement was now introduced by Picard, who used,
in 1669, telescope sights on his angle-measuring instrument. He
measured a base line with wooden rods of 5,663 toises, and a base
of verification of length 3,902 toises, and his triangulation extended
from Malvoisine, near Paris, to Sourdon, near Amiens. His result
for the length of 1° was 57,060 toises.

Picard’s work was rendered famous in another way, in that it
furnished Newton with data by which he was enabled to establish
the law of universal gravitation. About 1665, when he had retired
from Cambridge to his home at Woolsthorpe on account of the
ereat plague, his thoughts were first turned to the subject of gravity.
Reasoning from Kepler’s laws he readily proved that the planets
are kept in their orbits by an attractive force directed to the sun
whose intensity varies inversely as the square of the distance. It
at once occurred to him that if this law is universal it must be in
virtue of it that the moon is retained in her orbit about the earth;
that the distance through which the moon falls toward the earth,
or is deflected from a tangent to her orbit, in a unit of time stands
in a simple relation to that through which a body falls in the same
time near the earth’s surface.

To be more explicit, the distance through which a body falls
in a given time varies directly as the attractive force and the square
of the time. The moon’s distance is 60 radii of the earth; therefore
the force of the earth’s attraction acting upon it is only 1/3,600 of its
value at the earth’s surface, so that the moon falls in ene second
only 1/3,600 as far as a body at the earth’s surface. In one minute,
or 60 seconds, it will fall 3,600 times as far as in one second; there-
fore the moon should fall as far in one minute as a body near the
earth’s surface falls in one second, or 16 feet.

Newton, however, by assuming 60 miles to a degree, the value
used by navigators at that time, found only 14 feet for that quantity.
FORM AND CONSTITUTION OF EARTH—STEWART. 165

He considered, therefore, the discrepancy a proof of the maccuracy
of the law of the inverse square, and laid aside for the time his inves-
tigations in that direction. In January, 1672, at a meeting of the
Royal Society, the result of Picard’s work was mentioned, giving 69.1
miles as the length of a degree, and Newton was able to revise his
calculations, with the result that his hypothesis was amply verified.
This is generally supposed to have led to the publication of the
Principia, which laid the foundation of gravitational astronomy,
though some affirm that Newton delayed the publication of his great
work until he had proved that a spherical body attracts an outside
body as if all of its matter were concentrated at its center.

Up to this time the size of the earth had been investigated on the
supposition that its form is spherical, and that it is therefore only
necessary to measure the length of a degree on its surface in order to
determine its dimensions. A discovery was made, however, by
Richer (1672) which turned the attention of astronomers to the
possibility that its form may deviate materially from that of a sphere.
He had been sent by the Academy of Sciences of Paris to the Island
of Cayenne to make certain astronomical determinations, and while
there he found that his clock, which had been regulated in Paris to
keep correct time, lost about two and one-half minutes daily, so that
it was necessary to shorten the pendulum by one and one-fourth lines
to make it beat seconds. His report was received with doubt until
confirmed by the subsequent observations of Halley, Varin, and
Deshayes on the coasts of Africa and America. The phenomenon
was first explained by Newton in the third book of the Principia, where
he showed that it is the result of a decrease in the force of gravity in
the neighborhood of the equator due to increased distance from the
center of the earth combined with the effect of centrifugal force. He
also investigated the figure of the earth and showed that it must be
an oblate spheroid. As a consequence of this the lengths of the
degrees of latitude must increase with the latitude.

Between the years 1684 and 1718, Picard’s triangulation was
extended by J. and D. Cassini southward as far as Colidoure and
northward to Dunkirk, making a total amplitude of 8° 31’. The
northern portion of the arc, having an amplitude of 2° 12”, gave
56,960 toises as the length of a degree, while the southern portion
gave 57,097 toises. These results seemed to negative the theoretical
conclusions reached by Newton in the Principia, and to point to the
prolate spheroid as representing the true form of the earth. A heated
controversy arose in consequence, and in the excitement thus occa-
sioned, as well as from a desire to know the truth of the matter, the
Academy of Sciences resolved to apply a crucial test of the rival
theories by measuring a meridian are at the equator and another at
the Arctic Cirele.
a
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

Two parties were accordingly organized; one composed of Mau-
pertuis, Clairaut, Camus, Le Monnier, the Abbé Outhier, and Celsius,
being commissioned to measure an arc in Lapland; and the other,
composed of Godin, Bouguer, and de la Condamine, a meridian are in
Peru.

The polar party landed at the town of Tornea at the mouth of the
river of the same name in the beginning of July, 1736. They began
by exploring the river, and finding that the course of its valley is
nearly north and south and flanked on either side by high mountains,
they resolved to establish the stations of their triangulation on these
mountains. The tops had to be cleared of timber, and the signals
were constructed in the form of cones composed of several large trees
denuded of their bark, their white surfaces being thus visible at a
distance of 10 or 12 leagues. The angles were measured with a
quadrant having a radius of 2 feet, whose accuracy they verified by
measuring all the angles at a station that close the horizon. The
three angles of each triangle were also measured, and also check
angles, which were sums or differences of necessary angles at a
station.

The measurement of the angles occupied 63 days, and on September
9 the party reached Kittis, the most northerly station, and made
preparations for their astronomical work. ‘Two small observatories
were built, one of which contained a small transit instrument and a
clock, the former instrument being set up exactly over the center of
the station. The transit instrument was used in determining’ time
and the azimuths of the two stations visible from the observing
station. The other observatory contained a zenith sector having a
telescope 9 feet in length which was used in determining the difference
of the latitude of the two terminal stations. Observations of 0
Draconis, which passed near the zenith of the place, were taken
between October 4 and 10. The party then proceeded to Tornea and
commenced observations on the same star on November 1, finishing
on the 5th. Their instrument gave the difference of zenith distance
of the star as observed at the two stations; this difference, corrected
for aberration, precession, and nutation, gave the amplitude of the are
57’ 26:93.’

The final operation was now the measurement of the base line.
This had been intentionally postponed until winter, as its site had
been so chosen that the greater part of its length lay along the River
Tornea, its extremities only being on land. The frozen river. would
thus afford a level surface upon which to carry on their measurement
The party had brought with them from Paris a standard toise, called
afterwards the ‘‘Toise of the North,” which, with another taken by
the Peruvian party, had been carefully adjusted to be at standard
length at 14° Reaumer. By careful comparison with this standard
FORM AND CONSTITUTION OF EARTH—STEWART. 167

they prepared eight wooden rods each five toises in length and termi-
nating in metal studs, which were used in measuring the base.

This work was begun on December 21, the party having been
divided into two, each taking four rods and working independently, *
the rods probably being laid upon the snow with their ends in contact.
The difference between the measurements was only 4 inches in a
length of 7,406.86 toises.

It only remained now to compute the length of the meridian are
contained between the parallels of the two terminal stations. This
was found to be 55,023.5 toises.

Seeing that the resulting length of a degree would be far in excess
of that in the latitude of Paris, they submitted their work to a rigid
examination. An investigation of the division errors of the are of
their sector was made, and the amplitude of their are redetermined
increasing it to 57’ 30.42’’.. Observations for azimuth were made at
Tornea, and it was found that the resulting azimuth differed by 34’
from the value computed through the triangulation from the observa-
tions at Kittis; but this would have but a trifling effect upon the
length of the meridian are.

Their final value for the length of a degree was 57,437.9 toises.

Meanwhile the Peruvian party had selected as the scene of their
operations the valley in which Quito is situated, and which lies be-
tween the double range of mountains into which the Andes are there
divided. By placing the stations of their triangulation alternately
on opposite sides of the valley, they were able to form extremely well-
conditioned triangles, though the labor involved in occupying the
stations may be inferred from the fact that seven of them were sit-
uated at heights exceeding 14,000 feet. A base line was measured
near each extremity of their chain of triangles, the northern base
being near Quito, and having a length of 7.6 miles, and the southern
base a length of 6.4 miles. In their astronomical work they observed
the absolute zenith distances of stars, thus finding the latitudes of
their terminal stations, and not merely their difference of latitude.
The same stars, however, were observed at the two stations, so that
their difference of latitude was unaffected by errors in the star places.

The amplitude of their are was 3° 07’ 01’’, and its length 176,945
toises, thus giving 56,753 toises as the length of 1° at the Equator,
which was about 685 toises shorter than the value found in Lapland,
the length of a degree in France being intermediate between these.

Thus was 1t demonstrated finally that the form of the earth is that
of an oblate spheroid, and subsequent arc measurements have only
served to confirm this conclusion.

The problem that now presented itself was the determination with
all possible precision of the exact dimensions of the terrestrial spheroid.
Geodetic surveys were soon in progress in every civilized country.
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1914.

On representations from Count Cassini de Thuri to the Royal
Society of London of the advantages that would be derived from the
extension of the French triangle chain into England, the British Ord-

*nance Survey was begun in 1784, and by 1851 the whole of the British
Isles was covered with a network of triangles. This triangulation,
however, as in the cases of all modern surveys, was designed to serve
the double purpose of arc measurement and also as the basis of an
accurate topographic survey.

The year 1791 saw the inception of the grandest project ever devised
for the establishment of a standard of length. Certain prominent
members of the Academy of Sciences, among whom were Laplace and
Lagrange, proposed to the Constituent Assembly of France—and
received their sanction—that the ten-millionth part of the earth’s
meridian quadrant be adopted as the national standard of length, to
be called the meter. It was further proposed that this length be
determined by the measurement of a meridian are extending from
Dunkirk to Barcelona, and comprising 9° 40’ of latitude. This was
accordingly carried out, the work being intrusted to Legendre and
Mechain, and the length of the arc was found to be 551,584.7 toises,
and its amplitude 9° 40’ 25’’.

The commission appointed to revise their calculations and to deter-
mine the length of the meridian quadrant combined this new French
arc with the Peruvian arc, and thus found for the length of the
meridian quadrant 5,130,766 toises, which gave as the length of the
meter 0.5130766 in parts of the toise of Peru.

It would be impossible even to notice briefly all the arc measure-
ments that were now made in different countries, each contributing
its quota to the growing mass of data for determining the earth’s
figure. It is sufficient to state that in 1799 Laplace made a deter-
mination of the elements of the spheroid based upon a discussion of
nine meridian arcs measured in Lapland, Holland, France, Austria,
Italy, Pennsylvania, Peru, and at the Cape of Good Hope. In this
discussion Laplace made use of the expression

d=A+B sin’

which gives the length of a degree of the meridian in a given latitude,
A and B being functions of the semiaxes. As only two such equa-
tions are necessary in order to determine the two unknowns, some
principle had to be assumed in order to obtain the best values from
all the measurements. Laplace adopted the principle that the un-
knowns should be determined so as to fulfill the conditions that when
substituted in the observation equations they should make the alge-
braic sum of the errors in d equal to zero, and their sum, when all
are taken positively, a minimum. This gave the expression

d=56,753+ 613.1 sin’
FORM AND CONSTITUTION OF EARTH-—STEWART. 169
for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to give a

for finding the length of a degree in any given latitude. On applying
this expression to the Lapland arc. however. it was found to cive a,
